2019 Interim Corporate Sustainability Report
a new beginningA Message for Our 
Stakeholders
Company Profile
Our Corporate 
Sustainability 
Framework
Safety In The 
Workplace 
Emissions 
Mitigation
Pipeline Safety 
& Emergency 
Preparedness
Local Communities
Corporate 
Governance 
Economic Impact “what gets measured gets managed;       and what gets managed gets done.”
Equitrans Midstream At-A-Glance  
(as of December 31, 2018)
   
 
770  
employees$1.495
billion  
operating  
revenue2,130
miles of  
gathering  
lines 950
miles of  
interstate  
pipelines
$885
million capital  
expenditures 
1
3
 
 
5
 
6
 
9 
 
13
15
 
18
221A Message for 
OUR STAKEHOLDERS  
 
On November 13, 2018, Equitrans Midstream Corporation was launched as a 
powerful independent company with a very bright future – the culmination 
of EQT Corporation’s upstream and midstream business separation. We have 
a unique asset position across the prolific Marcellus and Utica shale region 
and, through our rich 135-year history, our midstream business was built and 
transformed by capturing opportunities that have achieved tremendous 
growth. Equitrans Midstream, or E-Train as we like to call it, now emerges 
with strong fundamentals and – as we work to deliver solutions for our 
customers and create additional value for our shareholders – our goal is to 
achieve the scale and scope of a premier, top-tier midstream company.
Although E-Train has been operating as a standalone, publicly traded 
company for only a short time – we have more than a century of responsible 
natural gas operations experience and we know, understand, and believe 
in the importance of sustainability reporting. When considering E-Train’s 
sustainability obligations, we cannot underestimate the effects that our 
business operations have on the financial stability of our Company, our 
employees, our shareholders, and the many other stakeholders in the 
communities in which we operate. In simple terms, sustainability reporting 
is an organization’s ability to be transparent in its performance metrics . . . 
because as the saying goes – “what gets measured gets managed; and 
what gets managed gets done.”   “what gets measured gets managed;       and what gets managed gets done.”
2
Managing the impacts of our activities – whether related to safety, 
environmental, governance, or social performance – is an integral part of 
how we do business. We strive to set operating standards that are consistent 
with our desire to be a continued and welcome partner in the communities 
in which we live and operate. Our culture of safety and environmental 
compliance continues to demonstrate E-Train’s commitment to managing 
our operations responsibly – because the health and safety of our  
people and the public will remain our top priority, always. 
Given that E-Train became an independent company in late 2018,  
we are producing an “interim” Corporate Sustainability Report (CSR)  
for 2019 – with plans to develop and deliver a more comprehensive  
and robust CSR, utilizing Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, in 2020.  
As the majority of sustainability reporting is based on the prior year-end’s 
performance data, this timeframe will give E-Train one full-year of operations 
as a standalone company and ensure more accuracy in our data and 
performance reporting.
We are proud to share with you our interim 2019 CSR, which provides a 
snapshot review of our safety and environmental stewardship efforts; our 
governance structure; how we support our communities through direct and 
indirect economic benefits; and how we work to effectively manage the 
construction and operation of our many infrastructure projects. Our success 
as a Company depends on our ability to operate safely, responsibly, and 
collaboratively to ensure that all stakeholders will benefit from our activities.
Sincerely,
 
Diana M. Charletta
President and Chief Operating Officer
3The Equitrans family consists of two publicly 
traded entities – Equitrans Midstream 
Corporation (ETRN) and EQM Midstream 
Partners, LP (EQM). This report collectively 
represents information, data, and performance 
metrics on behalf of both entities.
EQM is a growth-oriented limited partnership 
formed to own, operate, acquire, and develop 
midstream assets in the Appalachian Basin. 
As one of the largest gatherers of natural 
gas in the United States, EQM provides 
midstream services to producers, utilities, 
and other customers through its strategically-
located natural gas transmission, storage, 
and gathering systems, and water services to 
support energy development and production 
in the Marcellus and Utica regions.
ETRN owns the non-economic general 
partner interest and a majority ownership 
of the limited partner interest in EQM – and 
through its investment, ETRN provides 
midstream services to multiple third parties  
in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ohio 
through its three primary assets: the gathering  
system, the transmission and storage system, 
and its water services assets. Throughout 
this report, ETRN will be used to collectively 
represent both ETRN and/or EQM operations, 
activities, and programs – unless specifically 
described otherwise.As our journey continues, the core 
drivers of our activities will primarily 
involve three aspects of our business: 
1) Gathering and transporting natural  
gas supplies from the most prolific 
natural gas basin in North America 
2) Increasing access to local, regional,  
and national markets 
3) Providing water and other midstream 
services to producers across the Basin 
In a nutshell, ETRN’s principal strategy is to 
leverage its existing and planned growth 
projects and to identify and execute on 
strategically aligned acquisition and joint 
venture opportunities that will expand our 
footprint across the Appalachian Basin.  
As we optimize the delivery of natural gas 
to meet the nation’s demand for clean 
energy, we will continue to prioritize our 
commitment to safety and to the enrichment 
of the communities where our employees live 
and work.Company Profile
Our success as a Company depends on our ability to  
operate safely, responsibly, and collaboratively to ensure  
that all stakeholders will benefit from our activities.
4OUR VISION   |  What We Aspire To Be
To be the premier midstream services 
company in North America – providing 
safe, reliable, and innovative infrastructure 
solutions for the energy industry.
OUR MISSION   |  What We Do and  
How We Do It
We move the energy that keeps America 
moving . . . providing innovative solutions 
and reliable energy infrastructure services  
in a safe, efficient, and responsible manner. 
We operate with integrity, accountability, 
and transparency to:
• Deliver sustained value for our customers 
and shareholders
• Provide an engaging workplace for our 
employees
• Preserve and protect the environment
• Support the communities where we live 
and work
Our Core Values shape our ETRN culture  
and support our Vision and Mission – they  
are the essence of our identity and provide 
the framework for our conduct, as well as for 
the relationships we have with our customers, 
communities, vendors, and shareholders.OUR CORE VALUES   |  The Principles That 
Guide Our Behaviors and Decisions
 Safety  
Compliance is just a start. 
We are committed to responsible operations 
that will safeguard the environment and  
protect the health and safety of our employees,  
contractors, and communities – always.
 Integrity 
Doing the right thing.  
We will act ethically and demonstrate 
accountability for our actions, behaviors, and 
decisions. If something goes wrong, we will 
own it and make it right. 
 Collaboration
A reliable partner inside and out.  
We will cultivate an inclusive, respectful 
work environment that values differing 
perspectives and encourages the power of 
teamwork and accountability.
 Transparency
Communication is key. 
We will listen and clarify understanding 
before acting. We will communicate openly 
with each other – and with our customers, 
shareholders, and other external stakeholders.
 Excellence
In all we do and how we do it. 
We will operate in relentless pursuit of 
flawless execution to produce high-quality 
work and achieve sustainable results.  
We will keep our commitments. 5At Equitrans Midstream, our Core Values are  
the foundation for our corporate sustainability  
framework. The five pillars of this framework 
are aimed at delivering long-term, sustainable 
value to our shareholders, business partners, 
communities, and our employees.to support our emission reduction program, 
optimizing conservation of natural resources, 
and enhancing procedures or guidelines to 
improve our performance.
Corporate Governance:  Together with our 
Boards of Directors, we are committed to 
transparent corporate governance principles 
that will strengthen the confidence and 
trust of our many stakeholders. The Boards 
of Directors of Equitrans Midstream and 
EQGP Services, LLC, the general partner of 
EQM Midstream Partners, are the highest 
governance bodies of ETRN and EQM 
Midstream Partners, respectively, and are 
responsible for overseeing the management 
of our business and affairs.
Economic Impact:  We contribute to the 
U.S. and local economies by providing access 
to cleaner, affordable domestic energy, 
supporting economic development in local 
communities, creating job opportunities, and 
generating tax revenue at the state and local 
level. As we better understand our economic 
impact, we will engage with our communities 
to develop solutions that support them  
and seek new opportunities to contribute  
to the economy.
Stakeholder Engagement:  We believe 
in maintaining an open, transparent, and 
honest dialogue with our diverse audience 
of stakeholders. As we have learned 
through the years, stakeholders provide a 
valuable perspective into our business and 
our operations; and through this active 
engagement, we are better able to identify 
process gaps and implement continuous 
improvement efforts.Safety Leadership:  We believe that a 
commitment to safety is paramount –  
above all else  – and that execution is not 
successful unless Zero Is Possible . The safety 
and well-being of our employees, contractors, 
and the people who live in our communities 
is our highest priority. We all have a shared 
responsibility to create a workplace 
where Zero Is Possible – and we must all 
demonstrate safety leadership to achieve 
successful results.
Environmental Stewardship:  We strive 
to meet or exceed both expectations and 
regulatory requirements. Through continuous 
improvement initiatives, we incorporate 
sustainable practices into our day-to-day 
operations, such as utilizing new technologies Our Corporate Sustainability Framework6At Equitrans Midstream, we have a safety 
platform that we call ZIP Today – which 
stands for Zero Is Possible – Today. This 
simple acronym represents our strong belief 
that injuries are preventable. ZIP – Today 
serves as a recognizable, visible reminder to 
continue developing a strong safety culture  
and reminds our employees that their 
commitment to safety is paramount –  
above all else  – and that execution is not 
successful unless Zero Is Possible !Our active business operations are conducted 
in accordance with the applicable health 
and safety requirements established by 
the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) and other regulatory 
bodies. However, compliance is just the 
beginning. As we continue striving to 
improve, we work to integrate proper safety 
and health practices into all of our operations 
and our employees play a critical role in 
making sure that their co-workers return 
home safely each day. Further, every worker – 
regardless of title or work responsibilities – has 
the full authority and responsibility to stop any 
unsafe work activity.
Safety Education & Training
Education, risk mitigation, and performance 
monitoring form the core of ETRN’s 
workplace safety initiatives. Every employee 
receives core safety training annually, along 
with more frequent specialized training 
tailored to the work performed and the types 
of issues faced. For example, monthly safety 
meetings held with field employees cover 
issues such as:
• Natural gas safety
• Stop work authority/responsibility
• Incident investigation
• Safe driving
• Hazard recognition
• Safe job procedures
• Industry specific technical safety trainingSafety In The Workplace
An ongoing, safety-first focus is needed as 
part of our social license to operate. We need 
to demonstrate our commitment to doing 
the right thing in everything we do, and 
everywhere we operate. We do this because it 
is the right thing to do – and also because we 
believe that success in safety helps promote 
success in our business endeavors. We also 
work to impress this set of beliefs upon our 
vendors, contractors, and suppliers – as these 
various companies and their thousands of 
employees are an extension of ETRN and EQM  
and they must also maintain a stringent focus 
on safety and believe that Zero Is Possible .7
We have a steadfast commitment to 
providing our employees with the necessary 
tools and information to work safely and 
empowering them to stop work if situations 
warrant – and as individuals, we are each held 
accountable for following procedures and 
demonstrating safety leadership. During  
2018, ETRN employees logged more than  
7,500 hours of safety education and training .
Our Safety Performance
ETRN closely monitors health and safety 
performance, challenges, and statistics to 
ensure safe worksites; effective, ongoing 
safety training for our employees; and 
continuous identification of opportunities 
to improve. As an example, our Field Safety 
Technician program enables employees 
to take greater ownership of their own 
personal safety as well as demonstrate safety 
leadership to co-workers. The program 
also enables employees to identify and 
prevent situations that could cause harm to 
themselves or those around them.More importantly, every safety-related 
incident provides an opportunity to learn and 
improve, regardless of whether an injury was 
involved. As part of our standard process, we 
conduct a thorough incident investigation 
to clarify possible causes, identify options 
to prevent recurrences, and highlight 
opportunities to improve education, training, 
processes, and procedures. When an injury 
does occur, ETRN records the nature of the 
event as prescribed by the OSHA Injury/Illness 
Recordkeeping Guidelines.
During 2018, the most frequently recorded 
injury and incident types involved employees 
working outdoors; and the most commonly 
observed incidents included insect bites, 
slips/trips/falls, and “struck  -by” accidents, such 
as using hand tools. In 2019, we are shifting 
our focus from traditional safety metrics to a 
more advanced “look-forward” approach that 
includes identifying incidents with serious 
potential for injuries, or as we call them, ISPs. 
By utilizing this approach, we hope to prevent 
injuries before there is an actual occurrence. 8In addition, our Health, Safety, Security and 
Environment Policy is being updated and 
revised to reflect our status as a standalone 
midstream company and is expected to be 
published by Q4 2019. 
A snapshot of our 2018 year-end Safety 
performance statistics is as follows,  
which is based on employee hours  
worked and/or work-related miles driven,  
as of year-end 2018:Contractor Safety
Our safety focus also includes the numerous 
contract workers who perform work at ETRN 
– both in the field and in the office. To ensure 
that our job sites remain safe, every company 
providing contract workers must mirror 
our commitment to safety. We expect each 
contractor, including their subcontractors and 
agents, to adhere to ETRN’s relevant policies, 
as well as to all applicable U.S. laws and 
regulatory requirements related to health, 
safety, and employment.
To prequalify contractors before they obtain 
authorization to begin working for us, ETRN  
relies on ISNETWorld® – an industry 
recognized platform for monitoring safety 
metrics and performance. The ISNETWorld® 
database provides vital information regarding 
a contractor’s performance in the following 
key areas:
• Safety Management Systems
• Injury and Illness Statistics
• Department of Transportation (DOT) 
Inspection Compliance
• DOT Motor Carrier Safety Rating
• Written Safety Programs and Safety Training
• Experience Modification Rating
• Fatality History
We expect to provide complete contractor 
safety performance statistics in our 2020  
CSR report. Emplo yee T otal Hou rs Worked: 
1,252,825
Work-related T otal Mileage:  
6,445,773
Preven table Vehicle Accident s (PVAs): 
A total of  10 incident s, whic h 
reﬂects a rate of  1.55 
(total accident count / total mile s driven )
OSHA Re cordables:  
A total of  8 incident s that resulted in  
inju ry, which reﬂe cts a rate of  1.28  
(total incident count X 200,000 / 
total hours work ed)
Days Away, Restricted or  
Transf erred (D ART): 
A total of  4 coun ts, which 
reﬂects a rate of  0.64 
(total DART count X 200,000 / 
total hours work ed)9Emissions Mitigation
ETRN strives to protect the environment 
and continuously improve our practices in 
support of responsible pipeline operation 
and construction. We carefully monitor 
our emissions and energy use, as well as 
our operational impact on biodiversity, 
ecosystems, and the air. Our Health, Safety, 
Security and Environment Policy is being 
revised to reflect our status as a standalone 
midstream company and will be published 
by Q4 2019.  
Through its ownership interest in EQM, 
ETRN is in the business of constructing and 
operating pipelines for the transmission of 
natural gas, as well as water services assets 
used in natural gas production. Methane 
is the most significant component of the 
gas that ETRN moves for its customers – 
from the point of extraction, to processing, 
and ultimately to business and residential 
consumers. Because methane is part of 
the product that we move – and product 
delivery is how we generate revenue – we 
must be accountable and responsible for 
understanding, assessing, and improving 
our methane management practices. This 
is an ongoing effort that is beneficial both 
environmentally and economically; and as we 
strive for continuous improvement, we must 
analyze current and future potential emission 
mitigation practices.
ETRN acknowledges that it is not enough 
to achieve regulatory compliance on 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We must 
seek out and implement best practices – and 
in the face of ongoing climate change – we 
must reduce our carbon footprint to mitigate 
operational impacts for the sustainability of 
our business and our communities. We recognize that the transmission of 
methane-containing products, such as 
natural gas, is necessary to meet our country’s 
current energy needs; however, it’s important 
that there is a balance between the 
increasing market demand for energy sources 
and the need to mitigate the impact of GHG 
emissions. As the effects of climate change 
on our planet become increasingly apparent, 
we will proactively attempt to mitigate our 
GHG emissions by continuing to meet or 
exceed current regulatory requirements. 
Natural gas produces significantly less carbon 
dioxide compared to other fossil fuels – and 
when combusted, natural gas releases up to 
50% less CO2 than coal and 20-30% less than 
oil. The benefits of natural gas for methane 
mitigation, versus other fuel sources, are well-
established; however, we do not intend to 
stop there. 
ETRN is developing a climate change strategy 
that will outline our position on related 
regulatory and economic policies. We will 
focus our GHG strategy to address the specific 
factors of our midstream business operations 
to mitigate, or potentially eliminate, GHG 
emissions to the greatest extent possible. 
More comprehensive disclosure will be 
included in our 2020 CSR, which will utilize 
year-end 2019 data. 
As we consider our strategy, we are actively 
addressing our GHG mitigation efforts. Some 
of the actions described below are standard 
practices that are or will be used by ETRN to 
mitigate controllable emissions of methane. 
When reviewing our potential mitigation 
practices or projects, the information scope 
will include “controllable” emissions, which 10include those that can be reduced by either a  
change in operational practice or equipment 
design. “Controllable” emissions do not 
include those that result from events such as  
emergency situations, pipeline failures, or acts  
of God, etc. Generally, if an event is a one-time 
occurrence and cannot be fully predicted, it is 
not considered to be controllable.
Current Regulatory Requirements – 
Federal and/or State
Control
Based on federal requirements, the only 
methane regulation that currently affects a 
portion of our assets is 40 CFR 60 Subpart 
OOOOa (Quad Oa). Quad Oa was announced 
on June 3, 2016 and was the first regulation 
that explicitly stated its purpose was to limit 
greenhouse gases. Previously, Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) regulations 
that were intended to regulate methane 
emissions did so by regulating volatile 
organic compounds (VOCs), which are also 
a component of natural gas. In this case, the 
EPA stated that methane reduction was a 
“co-benefit” to controlling VOCs.
Assets potentially affected by Quad Oa, 
depending on their date of construction, 
reconstruction, or modification are:
• Reciprocating compressors
• Pneumatic controllers
• Storage vessels
• Fugitive emission components at 
compressor stations
At the state level, current environmental 
agency requirements regarding control of 
methane emissions are established in air permits. Requirements to control methane 
are typically a co-benefit to VOC control  
and are not explicitly stated. As of the  
printing of this report, the only exception  
to this is the general permit to be issued 
by the Pennsylvania Department of 
Environmental Protection for compressor 
stations. The most recent version of the  
GP-5, as it is commonly referred to, has 
explicit methane control requirements. 
Monitoring and Reporting
The EPA’s GHG reporting rules in 40 CFR 
98 Subpart W – Petroleum and Natural 
Gas Systems are contained in 40 CFR 98 – 
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting.  
The rule requires a facility having emissions  
of 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2e per 
year to submit an annual report of GHGs to 
the EPA. 
Additionally, methane emissions must be 
reported to the state regulatory agencies 
within ETRN’s operating areas, as applicable. 
In some cases, Subpart W methodologies are  
used to calculate emissions for the state; 
however, in certain cases, methodologies 
based on engineering and process 
knowledge or vendor guarantees may be used.
Methane Intensity Rate  (as of year-end 2018)
In 2018, ETRN reported total methane 
emissions of 4,850.5 tons. Our midstream 
operations, which include gathering, 
transmission, and compressor station facilities,  
had a methane intensity of 1.3 mtons/Tbtu. 
ETRN’s assets included 101 compressor 
stations/dehydration facilities; 950 miles of 
transmission lines; and 2,130 miles of high- 
and low-pressure gathering lines.11Voluntary Reduction Programs
Various industry organizations offer voluntary  
reduction programs that provide an organized 
set of metrics and an accountability structure, 
allowing companies to reduce methane 
emissions beyond regulatory requirements 
and to quantify such reductions.
During the second quarter of 2019, we joined 
the Environmental Partnership (EP) – a 
voluntary reduction program offered through 
the American Petroleum Institute (API) and 
the ONE Future Coalition, which is a group of 
natural gas companies working together to 
voluntarily reduce methane emissions across 
the natural gas supply chain, with a goal to 
lower emissions to 1% by 2025.
Current Methane Mitigation Methods
Below is a list of several GHG mitigation 
projects being implemented across different 
parts of our operations:
Compressor Blowdowns to Suction  
or Reduce Pressure
During planned blowdowns, discharge gas 
will be recycled to suction gas prior to venting 
to the atmosphere at compressor stations 
that are equipped to do so. Since suction 
pressure is less than discharge pressure, this 
practice reduces the volume of gas (and 
methane) that is vented to the atmosphere. 
Utilizing Instrument Air
Newer compressor stations are equipped 
with instrument air systems to run pneumatic 
controllers. Utilizing this type of system 
prevents natural gas from “bleeding” into the 
atmosphere, as most pneumatic controllers 
have a non-zero bleed rate.Utilizing Air Starts on Units
Rather than utilizing natural gas, newer 
compressor stations are equipped with  
air or electric systems to start engines.
Replacement of High-Bleed Controllers
A high-bleed controller has a continuous 
natural gas bleed rate greater than six 
standard cubic feet per hour (scfh). ETRN has 
replaced numerous high-bleed controllers 
with models that have lower bleed rates.
Reducing Full Emergency Shut Down  
(ESD) System Test Emissions
Compressor stations regulated by the DOT 
are required to undergo an annual test of 
the ESD system. Previously, ETRN conducted 
annual ESD tests in a manner that vented 
all gas contained in the station. We have 
updated our operating procedures to only 
blowdown the full station once every five 
years, as allowed by DOT regulations. During 
the four tests that occur during a full-station 
blowdown, the operations team blocks the 
vents and actuates the ESD valves, but does 
not blowdown the piping, thus mitigating 
any emissions. 
Work-Stacking
In 2018, ETRN began an effort to coordinate or  
“stack” work that required station shutdowns. 
Since work that requires a shutdown often also  
requires a blowdown, the “work-stacking” effort  
minimizes emissions while also maximizing 
equipment uptime and availability.
An early opportunity to stack work was 
identified for newer Caterpillar units, 
which are required to have a rod packing 
replacement at 26,000 hours and a major 12maintenance event at 27,000 hours. The  
increase in unit availability and the reduction  
in emissions from this single effort highlighted  
the importance of analyzing ETRN’s work  
management system for similar opportunities.
Future Mitigation Methods
ETRN is also evaluating several potential GHG  
mitigation efforts, some of which include:
Expansion of LDAR Program
At compressor station facilities, a Leak 
Detection and Repair (LDAR) program is used 
to identify leaks from valves, mechanical 
joints, compressors, etc. Once a leak is 
identified, it is repaired within a designated 
timeframe and the required documentation 
is maintained.
Based on regulatory or permit requirements, 
LDAR is required at many, but not all, of ETRN’s  
compressor stations and dehydration facilities.  
In 2019, ETRN took steps to go beyond 
compliance requirements by implementing 
LDAR programs for compressor stations that 
were not subject to the program through a 
permit or regulatory requirement.
Pneumatic Controller Upgrades
Select vendors now provide “no bleed” or 
“very low bleed” pneumatic controllers. 
While the “no bleed” controllers do bleed 
some gas while actuating, ETRN is working 
to determine proper emissions reporting for 
such controllers. We are selecting two sites 
at which to install these controllers in order 
to evaluate their cost, emissions savings, and 
technical feasibility.Identification of Remaining High-Bleed 
Pneumatic Controllers
ETRN anticipates identifying and potentially 
replacing any remaining high-bleed 
pneumatic controllers. Each possible 
replacement will be screened for economic 
and technical feasibility.
Recompression of Pipeline Gas  
Prior to Blowdown
New portable technology, known as “ZeVac,” 
is available to compress gas from pipelines 
to nearby lower-pressure pipelines prior to 
pipeline blowdown for maintenance and 
other procedures. ETRN is evaluating the 
economic and technical feasibility to utilize 
the ZeVac equipment for future activities.
Flaring of Pipeline Gas
ETRN will evaluate the economic and 
technical feasibility of flaring pipeline gas, 
rather than utilizing a blowdown, during 
pipeline maintenance events. Although 
this practice would reduce the methane 
emissions by as much as 99%, other 
air pollutants would be emitted due to 
combustion. Such an activity would need to 
be assessed for permitting applicability and/
or other regulatory impacts.
Upgrading Existing Stations with  
Air or Electric Starts
Although newer compressor stations are 
equipped with air or electric systems to 
start engines, many of our older stations 
and assets utilize gas to start equipment. 
ETRN will conduct an economic and 
technical feasibility evaluation, by location, 
to determine which stations, if any, will be 
upgraded with air or electric engine starts.13Safety is ETRN’s number one priority and 
core value – and we will not compromise 
safety, at any time, to gain a business 
advantage. In keeping with our ZIP-Today 
platform, we know that our commitment 
to safety is paramount – above all else  – and 
that execution is not successful unless Zero 
Is Possible. We want to ensure the health 
and safety of the communities in which we 
operate through careful pipeline construction 
and operation; ongoing asset maintenance, 
including pipelines and compressor stations; 
and programs/policies that support crisis 
or emergency situations. We also provide 
safety awareness education and emergency 
response protocols to local emergency 
responders and other community members. 
Pipeline Safety
We believe it is important for our community 
members to understand and know that 
we operate with their safety in mind; and 
that we have established safety protocols, 
procedures, and processes that we utilize 
across our operations and routinely 
update as needed. When it comes to 
protecting communities, the careful design, 
construction, and operation of our pipelines 
and related facilities is essential. During 
design, construction, and operation of 
our natural gas pipelines and facilities, we 
integrate preventive measures to promote 
employee, contractor, and community 
safety. We carefully design and maintain our 
gathering and transportation pipelines – and 
prioritize public safety and environmental 
protection. In doing so, we meet or exceed 
safety standards and practices through:Design
• Comply with local, state, and  
federal regulations
• Design facilities consistent with  
industry standards and best practices
• Optimize routes to avoid sensitive areas
Construction
• Inspect construction activities to verify  
safe and proper installation measures
• Test pipelines prior to placing them  
in- service to certify integrity
• Examine welds to ensure safety
Operations
• Monitor, control, and analyze natural  
gas flow 24/7 via our state-of-the-art  
Gas Control Center
• Mitigate corrosion through maintenance 
of cathodic protection systems, fluid 
sampling, and flow control
• Maintain rights  -of -way for aerial patrols  
and routine on  -site inspections
• Sustain comprehensive operating and 
maintenance programs to ensure the 
integrity of the assets and minimize the 
potential for third-  party damagePipeline Safety & Emergency Preparedness
14Integrity Management
• Identify high  -consequence areas along 
transmission lines, based on population 
and land/building use
• Create a risk model that prioritizes the high-
consequence areas for integrity assessment
• Complete specific evaluations, such as 
corrosion investigations and pressure 
testing, to assure integrity of the pipelines
Security
• Provide on  -site security through  
electronic monitoring, fences, buildings, 
locks, and surveillance
Community Awareness
• Annual mailing of safety brochure  
to residents and businesses located  
near pipelines
• Participate in meetings for first  
responders and excavators to provide 
pipeline safety information
• Promote national “811 – Call before you dig” 
program to prevent accidents
• Participate in and sponsor PA 811 Safety Day
We dedicate resources to adhere to gas 
transmission pipeline integrity federal 
regulations (subpart O), as well as other 
public safety assessments, such as pipeline 
assessments, excavations, and material 
testing. These additional elements – although 
not federally required – contribute to 
ongoing safe operations. In 2018, we spent 
approximately $2 million on pipeline safety 
initiatives. Through these established routines and regulations, we limit the likelihood of 
pipeline incidents and protect our workers 
and communities.
Public Safety Awareness
ETRN understands that pipeline and 
compressor station operations can affect our 
communities. We communicate regularly 
with our communities to increase awareness 
of our activities and address potential safety 
concerns. We work closely with emergency 
response personnel, public works employees, 
elected officials, school districts, and other 
key community members to engage them in 
the process; educate them, as well as learn 
from them; and build relationships. Often 
times, we address topics such as:
• Activity occurring along a pipeline route or 
at a compressor station facility
• What type of equipment is being used
• ETRN’s emergency or crisis response plan 
• Appropriate responses for various incident 
scenarios
Through these interactions, ETRN and our  
communities are better prepared to jointly  
respond to potential safety-related incidents.  
Additionally, local officials and first responders  
become familiar with our operations and 
feel more comfortable contacting ETRN 
should an incident occur. Our conversations 
include education relating to what they 
should and should not do to help ETRN 
resolve an incident quickly and safely. These 
engagements build trust and establish lasting 
relationships, as well as help streamline the 
response process if there is an incident.As we optimize the delivery of natural gas to meet the nation’s demand for 
clean energy, we will continue to prioritize our commitment to safety.15At ETRN, we believe that local communities 
are essential to the continued success and 
growth of ETRN’s business and operations. 
Additionally, we know that our operations 
can and do affect communities; therefore, it 
is important that we maintain the support 
and trust of our local communities. In doing 
so, we focus on three primary aspects of 
stakeholder engagement: managing our 
impacts; community investment; and 
corporate reputation management. 
We continually work to build trust by sharing 
information related to our current, planned, 
and proposed operations. We operate with 
integrity, accountability, and transparency 
as we strive to uphold our reputation as a 
responsible midstream services operator – 
and through public engagement, education, 
and local giving we will continue to support 
the communities in which we live and work. 
Addressing Community Concerns & 
Public Perceptions
Natural gas pipelines and related facilities 
evoke a certain amount of public concern, 
both locally and nationally. To better 
understand these concerns at the local 
level, ETRN relies on our Government 
Affairs group to establish and maintain 
relationships with civic organizations, elected 
officials, emergency response personnel, 
business owners, residents, and other local 
stakeholders. In addition, ETRN’s Land and 
Construction groups are often engaged 
with landowners, local officials, and other 
community members to assist in reporting 
and resolving concerns. We use these 
engagement opportunities to develop or 
refine policies and procedures designed to Local Communities
minimize or eliminate operational issues 
before they become larger concerns  
or disputes. 
Our conscious efforts to understand and 
work with local communities support our 
vision to be the premier midstream services 
operator in North America, help us develop 
positive relationships with our communities, 
and keep ETRN’s reputation in good standing. 
But we cannot rely on just a few functional 
groups to improve the public perception 
of our Company – each ETRN employee is 
responsible for supporting our corporate 
reputation. Efforts to protect and maintain 
ETRN’s corporate reputation include:
• Gathering information to help  
identify local concerns before they 
inconvenience neighbors
• Advocating for the community by ensuring 
that issues or concerns are addressed at the 
appropriate level within the Company and 
ultimately achieve resolution
• Acting as a conduit for suggesting  
ways to strengthen ETRN’s processes  
and procedures
• Providing opportunities for residents to 
learn about current or future projects and 
how they may affect their communities
• Building relationships prior to the start of 
activity in new areas
16Community Investments
Through our local corporate giving and 
sponsorship program, ETRN invests in and 
provides support to various associations and 
organizations in the communities in which 
we live and work. Additionally, the Equitrans 
Midstream Foundation – a separate 501(c)(3) 
organization – will support other non-profit 
groups located in our operating regions. 
All corporate donations and sponsorships 
are approved by leaders of the Corporate 
Communications or Government Affairs 
teams. They utilize a review and pre-  approval 
process in order to avoid support of illegal 
or otherwise inappropriate activities and the 
appearance of impropriety that could arise 
if contributions were made to individuals 
or local authorities with decision  -making 
responsibilities regarding ETRN’s current or 
future operations. ETRN donations support 
a variety of organizations ranging from small 
local non-profits to municipalities seeking 
additional support for community projects 
that exceed their budgets. Other types of 
corporate support include sponsorships 
of county fairs, community festivals, and 
other local events. Through our support, we 
can educate residents about our Company, 
enhance the quality for life for community 
members, and maintain our reputation as a 
good corporate citizen.
More information on the philanthropic efforts 
of the Equitrans Midstream Foundation will 
be provided in our 2020 CSR.Political Involvement & Public Policy
ETRN serves as an informed resource to 
policymakers on issues directly affecting 
our operations and those of the natural gas 
industry in general – and we actively engage 
with federal, state, and local politicians 
regarding issues that affect our operations 
and communities. Our expertise in natural 
gas gathering and transportation enables 
us to have meaningful discussions around 
energy policy, which supports fair and 
balanced laws and regulations that benefit 
all of ETRN’s stakeholders. Beginning in 2020, 
we will disclose our political engagement 
activities via our website to support 
transparency for our stakeholders.
Governance
ETRN focuses on conducting public policy 
activities in compliance with local, state, and 
federal laws. ETRN has internal policies that 
help manage our interactions with regulatory 
agencies and elected officials and that require,  
among other things, that no employee 
engage in lobbying activity on behalf of ETRN,  
nor use corporate treasury dollars for political  
purposes, without permission from our 
Government Affairs leader or General Counsel. 
Political Spending & Policy Issues
ETRN complies with laws and regulations in  
every operational jurisdiction in which we plan  
to strategically spend on political contributions. 
This includes federal and state campaign 
finance laws regarding political spending in 
support of political parties, politicians, and 
related institutions. We do not engage in 
political activity or make financial or in-  kind 
contributions to political parties, politicians, or 
related institutions outside the United States. 17We also work to support federal, state, 
and local policies that promote stable 
investment climates for natural gas 
transportation and storage. These may 
include policies governing environmental 
protection, taxes, natural gas pipelines, and 
expanding the use of natural gas in sectors 
such as transportation, manufacturing, and 
electricity generation. When engaging with policymakers, we consider the impacts to 
ETRN, our stakeholders, communities, and 
the environment. 
Our 2020 CSR will include a comprehensive 
listing of issues and organizations that ETRN  
supported during 2019 – as well as the methods  
by which we fund our political spending. 
18Corporate Governance
ETRN and EQM Governance Structure
The Boards of Directors of ETRN and EQGP 
Services, LLC, the general partner of EQM, are 
the highest governance bodies of ETRN and 
EQM, respectively, and are responsible for 
overseeing the management of our business 
and affairs. Our philosophy regarding board 
leadership is outlined in paragraph 5(f) of 
our Corporate Governance Guidelines. For 
more information, please see the Governance 
sections of our ETRN and EQM websites.
Board Committees
The ETRN Board  has four standing committees:
• Audit
• Corporate Governance
• Health, Safety, Security and Environmental 
• Management Development and 
Compensation
The EQM Board  has two standing committees:
• Audit
• Conflicts
For more information regarding our respective  
boards and committees, please see:
• Pages 1-14 of ETRN’s 2019 Proxy Statement
• Page 125 of ETRN’s 2018 Form 10-K
• Pages 105-109 of EQM’s 2018 Form 10-K
The ETRN Corporate Governance Committee 
is responsible for establishing and 
recommending to the ETRN Board the 
requisite skills and characteristics to be 
found in individuals qualified to serve as 
ETRN directors. The Corporate Governance 
Committee may identify potential director candidates through many sources, including 
third-party search firms and unsolicited 
shareholder submissions. All ETRN directors 
annually stand for election by shareholders. 
For more information, see pages 13-14 of 
ETRN’s 2019 Proxy Statement.
ETRN appoints the directors for EQM’s 
general partner. For more information, 
see paragraph 5(a) of EQM’s Corporate 
Governance Guidelines.
ETRN and EQM directors routinely receive 
information from management to educate 
them about ETRN and/or EQM business, 
including related governance, economic, 
environmental, and social topics. Directors of 
ETRN and EQM are encouraged to participate 
in additional educational programs, in which 
participation would be funded or reimbursed 
by ETRN or EQM, as applicable.
ETRN and EQM disclose conflicts of interest 
to stakeholders as required by law. ETRN’s 
and EQM’s Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics outlines our policy to avoid conflicts 
of interest, and we also have an internal 
Conflicts of Interest Policy. ETRN maintains 
a majority of independent directors and 
ETRN’s Corporate Governance Committee 
and the EQM Board must approve related 
person transactions when required under the 
ETRN and EQM Related Person Transaction 
Approval Policies. No compensation 
committee interlocks involving ETRN 
directors exist. For more information see:
• Page 17 and Appendix A of ETRN’s 2019 
Proxy Statement 
• Pages 138-139 of EQM’s 2018 Form 10-K;  
a list of Certain Relationships and Related 
Transactions begins on page 12619The ETRN and EQM Boards and committees 
will use performance assessments to 
evaluate how well they are fulfilling their 
governance responsibilities. Under the 
ETRN Corporate Governance Guidelines, the 
ETRN Corporate Governance Committee 
is to conduct, lead or arrange an annual 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the ETRN 
Board. Similarly, each ETRN Board committee 
must conduct an annual evaluation of its own 
effectiveness. As part of the review process, 
comments from all directors are solicited. 
The performance assessment of the ETRN 
Board and each ETRN Board committee 
will be discussed with the full ETRN Board 
on an annual basis. At EQM, the EQM Board 
and Audit Committee also conduct annual 
self-assessments. Although the ETRN and 
EQM Boards do not, and will not, publicly 
disclose the actions taken in response to their 
annual self-assessments, directors take the 
assessment process seriously and process 
results are, and will be, taken into account to 
improve overall governance performance.
Board of Directors  
Composition & Diversity
The following chart provides an overview of 
the attributes represented on ETRN’s  Board:Each of ETRN’s directors brings a unique 
skillset to the ETRN Board, which may 
include experience in areas such as Energy, 
Regulatory, and/or Government Affairs, and/
or experience in fields such as finance or 
accounting. All ETRN directors have prior 
experience on the boards of other companies. 
ETRN’s directors are also experienced  
in the following areas:
3 of 7
Communications3 of 7
Environmental7 of 7
Financial
4 of 7
Government
Affairs3 of 7
Human Capital7 of 7
Industry
5 of 7
Investor
Management6 of 7
Leadership5 of 7
Public Company
(C-Suite)
7 of 7
Public Company
(Director)4 of 7
Regulatory4 of 7
Risk ManagementETRN Directors
4
Current or
former CEOs7
Board 
Nominees
DiversityIndependence
Leadership5
Men28%
Non-
Independent2
Women 72%
Independent20officers, and employees; and sustain good 
relationships with customers, suppliers, and 
other stakeholders
Oversight of certain matters is delegated to 
Board committees. The ETRN and EQM Audit 
Committees each are to review and discuss 
their respective organization’s process for 
assessing major risk exposures and policies 
implemented by management to monitor 
and control such exposures, including 
financial risk exposures (including financial 
statement risk and other risk exposures as 
may be delegated by the applicable Board 
for oversight) and risk management policies. 
When making decisions on behalf of the 
applicable company, the ETRN and EQM 
Boards consider the feedback provided by 
ETRN’s and EQM’s respective stakeholders.
The day-to-day operations of ETRN and 
EQM incorporate the assessment and 
management of sustainability, risks, and 
opportunities. The Health, Safety, Security 
and Environmental Committee of the ETRN 
Board provides oversight for many aspects 
of ETRN’s and EQM’s sustainability, risks, 
and opportunities and the actions taken to 
address these issues.
Board and Committee Meetings
Economic, environmental, and social impacts, 
risks, and opportunities facing ETRN and 
EQM are reviewed, as warranted, at Board 
and committee meetings.
Communicating with the Board
To achieve sustainable performance for 
securityholders, employees, customers, 
and communities, the ETRN and EQM The following chart provides an overview of 
the attributes represented on EQM’s  Board:
Sustainability & Risk Management
In addition to general oversight of our business  
and affairs, the ETRN and EQM Boards also 
perform specific functions, as set forth in 
Paragraph 2 of the respective Corporate 
Governance Guidelines for their organizations. 
These include, as applicable:
• Oversight of succession planning for the 
CEO and other key officers
• Review, approval, and monitoring of 
fundamental financial and business 
strategies and major corporate actions
• Reviewing the process for assessing major 
risks facing ETRN or EQM, as applicable, 
and options for mitigation
• Confirming that processes are in place that 
are reasonably designed to maintain the 
integrity of ETRN’s and EQM’s respective 
financial statements; promote compliance 
with laws and regulations applicable to the 
organizations and their respective directors, EQM Directors
6
Current 
or Former 
C-Suite Roles7
Board 
Members
DiversityIndependence
Leadership5
Men57%
Non-
Independent2
Women 43%
Independent21Boards are committed to overseeing their 
organizations with integrity, accountability, 
and transparency. They welcome input on 
how they are doing, and each organization 
provides stakeholders multiple ways to 
communicate with its governing body.
The ETRN Lead Independent Director and 
EQM Presiding Director are the key points 
of contact for concerns or inquiries at their 
respective Boards. Communications may 
be made anonymously or confidentially and 
avenues for contacting the ETRN and EQM 
Boards include:
• Each Company’s Corporate Secretary, 
Investor Relations contact, management 
team, and respective websites
• The Compliance Hotline 
• Traditional written correspondence
ETRN and EQM maintain active dialogue with 
our shareholders and unitholders throughout 
the year. Through our Investor Relations 
program, senior executives hold meetings 
with ETRN and/or EQM investors or potential 
investors to discuss operations, strategy, and 
other critical items. When investors pose 
specific questions, our Investor Relations 
team schedules calls and/or meetings to 
address their inquiries accordingly. Our 
Investor Relations team intends to use the 
annual CSR to help guide conversations with 
investors regarding economic, environmental, 
social, and governance topics. 
Director & Executive Compensation
ETRN non-employee director compensation, 
including descriptions of cash and equity-
based compensation, and related processes are outlined on pages 18-21 in ETRN’s 2019 
Proxy Statement. Annually, the Corporate 
Governance Committee reviews and the 
ETRN Board approves the compensation.
EQM non-employee director compensation, 
including descriptions of cash and equity-
based compensation, and related processes 
are outlined on pages 122-123 of EQM’s 2018 
Form 10-K. Annually, the EQM Board reviews 
and approves the compensation.
In discharging the ETRN Board’s 
responsibilities relating to compensation of 
ETRN’s executive officers, the Management 
Development and Compensation Committee 
recommends, and the ETRN Board approves, 
the target total direct compensation for 
named executive officers by establishing 
base salaries and setting short-term (bonus) 
and long-term incentive targets. When 
appropriate, the Management Development 
and Compensation Committee also provides 
certain limited perquisites and other benefits  
to executive officers and other key employees.
The Management Development and 
Compensation Committee approves annual 
and long-term incentive programs on a 
yearly basis, with recommendations from 
management and information from an 
independent compensation consultant.
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
of ETRN held on June 11, 2019, ETRN’s 
shareholders considered a proposal 
to approve, on an advisory basis, the 
compensation of ETRN’s named executive 
officers for 2018, with a majority of votes cast 
in favor of such proposal. 22Indirect
Impact
$404Induced
Impact
$1,1072018 ETRN Level of Economic Effect  
($ millions)
Direct 
Impact
$515Economic Impact
As a successful midstream services  
operator, ETRN’s business contributes to 
sustainable growth of the U.S. economy  
and the communities in which we operate. 
ETRN’s operations have a significant influence 
on the local economies by supporting 
economic growth via job creation and tax 
revenue generation.
ETRN tracks the indirect economic impacts of 
our business operations to better understand 
and communicate how our operations 
positively contribute to the economy by 
annually commissioning an independent 
analysis of the direct and indirect economic 
impacts of our activities on both local and 
U.S. economies. In 2019, FTI Consulting, Inc.  
analyzed our year-end 2018 data and compiled  
the results into a study titled, “The Economic 
Impact of Equitrans Midstream Corporation 
and EQM Midstream Partners: Investments 
and Operational Activities.” The full report can 
be found on our ETRN and EQM websites.
National Economy 
According to FTI Consulting, Inc.’s analysis, 
we provided $2.03 billion in value-added 
contributions to the U.S. Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP). Of this $2.03 billion in 
economic benefits:
• 57.5% of contributions occurred in ETRN’s 
three primary operating states
• 42.5% of contributions related to out-of-state  
suppliers that provided goods and services 
for business activities in ETRN’s and EQM’s 
operating area Our direct activities produced $515 million of 
GDP, and the indirect GDP impact through 
our suppliers was $404 million. Our total 
induced impact, that is, the impact of 
spending by ETRN employees, contractors, 
and suppliers was $1,107 million. 2018 ETRN GDP Contributions by State 
($ millions)
PA OH WV VA/NC/
TX/KYRest of 
U.S.800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0$135$767
$264$751
$110
Labor Impacts 
ETRN’s activities in 2018 significantly 
benefited the U.S. economy. In addition  
to ETRN’s own employees, we supported 
22,000 ancillary jobs across our operations 
in 2018. This includes direct contractors, 
suppliers, and supply chain employees 
that support our construction, gathering, 23ETRN and EQM Economic Contributions
Ancillary jobs supported 22,000
 
GDP contribution $2.03 billion
Ancillary labor income  $1.26 billion
Average annual compensation 
per ancillary job supported $57,200
 
State and local tax 
revenues supported  $227 millionETRN and EQM Economic Activities
Employees  9271
 
Employee compensation  $123 million
Capital expenditures  $885 million
Rights-of-way payments  $65 million2
 
Dividends, stock repurchases,
and distributions  $737 million
 
Induced
Employment
12,113Direct
Contractors
6,191Supplier
Employment
3,715U.S. Employment Contributions 
by ETRN in 2018
Direct 
Employees
927transmission and storage, and water services 
activities. Additional highlights include 
$2.03 billion of U.S. GDP generated, and 
$227 million in state and local tax revenues 
supported. Most of the contributions shown 
below are in the PA-WV-OH region, which 
is home to ETRN’s headquarters and the 
majority of our operations.
1. The daily business operations of EQM are conducted by employees of ETRN and its subsidiaries; EQM does not have any employees. ETRN had 
770 total employees at the end of 2018; however, throughout the whole of 2018, ETRN had a total of 927 employees, which included terminated 
employees; and/or employees who worked for the midstream business unit but were transferred to the upstream business unit during the 
year; and/or paid interns. The IMPLAN model defines employment as including full- and part-time employees at equal weights; therefore, the 
economic analysis reflects direct employment of 927 and results include the compensation paid to 927 employees.
2. Includes 45.5% of rights-of-way payments related to MVP, which is equivalent to EQM’s ownership interest in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC.In 2018, ETRN directly employed 927 people 
across seven states. EQM does not have any 
employees and the daily business operations 
of EQM are conducted by employees 
of ETRN and its subsidiaries. ETRN’s 
employment contributions extend beyond 
direct employees. A significant number of 
contractors are retained to support capital 
expenditures and operations. Furthermore, 
earnings spent by such employees and 
contractors and ETRN’s suppliers contribute 
to the economy in sectors such as housing 
or entertainment. The graphic below shows 
these employment contributions inclusive of 
ETRN’s 927 employees.ETRN Economic Activities  
and Resulting Economic Contributions  
to the U.S. Economy
24State and Local Taxes Supported
ETRN’s activities for 2018 generated $227 million in state and local tax revenues. These support the 
operations of state and local governments, such as their funding for transportation and education. 
The table below shows the state and local tax revenues supported by ETRN’s operations and 
capital investments in 2018.
Property Taxes  $27.0 $10.4 $4.7 $3.7 $36.8 $82.6
  
Income Taxes  $19.1 $1.8 $0.2 $0.6 $11.1 $32.8
  
Sales Taxes  $29.2 $6.8 $0.6 $5.9 $39.0 $81.5
  
Other Personal Taxes  $2.6 $0.3 $0.1 $0.3 $4.7 $8.0
 
Other Taxes on 
Production and Imports  $5.5 $3.0 $0.1 $0.5 $5.2 $14.4
Other  $1.3 $0.3 $0.4 $0.2 $5.3 $7.5
 
Total  $84.8 $22.5 $6.2 $11.3 $102.1 $226.8Category PA WV OH Other Rest U.S.
     States of U.S.State and Local Tax Payments from ETRN’s Activities in 2018 ($ millions)Design: Group 2  |  Pittsburgh, PA625 Liberty Avenue  
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
2200 Energy Drive  
Canonsburg, PA 15317
equitransmidstream.com