2020 Corporate  
Sustainability ReportThrough our Corporate Sustainability Report, we outline the important work we do to ensure our operations are safe, sustainable, and 
responsible. We are pleased to present our ﬁrst report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and also to incorporate the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Oil & Gas Industry Standard. Our report reﬂects the results of our ﬁrst materiality 
assessment, which we conducted in 2019 to identify the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics most signiﬁcant to our business 
and our stakeholders. Our progress this year includes the appointment of Todd L. Normane to the new position of Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer, 
which will further strengthen our approach to sustainability as we continue to responsibly manage the impacts of our activities.
Our ESG management practices are intrinsic and deliver value that goes beyond ﬁnancial drivers. Today and in the future, trust and 
transparency are central to our approach. As companies’ sustainability practices evolve, our global society continues to highlight the 
importance of stakeholder trust in businesses and the role that transparency plays in establishing and maintaining strong relationships. This 
report is an important reﬂection of our accomplishments, commitments, and future endeavors.
We conduct business to a standard that is consistent with our ﬁve core values of Safety, Integrity, Collaboration, Transparency, and Excellence. 
These ﬁve core values are reﬂected in key components of our ESG approach, including:
Our work towards instilling a “Zero is Possible, Today” safety culture
Our commitment to being a trusted business partner and neighbor
Our partnerships with community organizations
Our pursuit of reducing our greenhouse gas and air emissions
We are pleased to share our ESG approach and actions with our employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, communities, and all other
stakeholders. As we navigate the uncertainties surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, we are proud to continue safely and responsibly moving
America’s critical energy resources during these unprecedented times. We hope that by reading our report, you will see our vision for building
a safe and secure future together.
Sincerely,
Diana M. Charletta
President and Chief Operating OfﬁcerOur Year in Review
102-14
During the past year at Equitrans Midstream Corporation, we have continued on our journey to be a premier, top-tier 
midstream energy company. We are proud to pursue energy solutions that meet customer demands, create value for 
our shareholders, and support our many stakeholders. Our principal assets located throughout the proliﬁc Appalachian  
Basin in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia, along with growth projects, distinctively position us to meet the  
growing energy demands of the United States.
About Equitrans
A Message for 
Our Stakeholders
We are proud to pursue energy solutions that meet
customer demands, create value for our shareholders,
and support our many stakeholders. Through our
Corporate Sustainability Report, we outline
the important work we do to ensure our operations
are safe, sustainable, and responsible.
1Our Company
Equitrans Midstream Corporation (Equitrans) is a publicly traded midstream services company with a premier asset footprint across the
Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. Our asset locations within the Basin, and our growth projects, including our
Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP) and MVP Southgate projects, provide a key link between supply sources and major demand markets in the
United States. Our customers are natural gas producers, commercial and industrial users, marketers, and local distribution companies (LDCs).
As a company, we seek to leverage both our existing assets and planned and in-process growth projects while also executing on strategically
aligned acquisition and joint venture opportunities.
In June 2020, a wholly owned subsidiary of Equitrans merged with EQM Midstream Partners, LP (EQM), with EQM surviving the merger. As a
result, Equitrans acquired all of the outstanding common units representing limited partner interests in EQM that Equitrans and our
subsidiaries did not already own and EQM became a wholly owned subsidiary of Equitrans. EQM owns, operates, acquires, and develops
midstream assets in the Appalachian Basin. Additionally, EQM holds a 60 percent class A interest in Eureka Midstream Holdings, LLC (Eureka
Midstream), a 45.7 percent interest in the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP) project, and a 47.2 percent interest in the MVP Southgate project.
This report represents the activities of Equitrans, with EQM as our subsidiary, and includes speciﬁc MVP information as noted. Equitrans’
business centers on three primary assets:102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8, 102-9, 102-10, 102-12, 102-13, 102-41, EM-MD-000.A
About Equitrans
Company Profile
Equitrans Midstream Corporation (Equitrans) is a
publicly traded midstream services company with a
premier asset footprint across the Appalachian Basin
in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. Our business
focuses on three primary assets: Gathering,
Transmission, and Water. 
2Gathering
As of December 31, 2019, our gathering system, inclusive of Eureka Midstream Holdings, LLC’s (Eureka Midstream) gathering system, included
approximately 990 miles of high-pressure gathering lines and 130 compressor units with compression of approximately 445,000 horsepower
and multiple interconnect points with our transmission and storage system and other interstate pipelines. In 2019, our gathering operations
gathered 7,844 BBtu of natural gas per day, on average.
Transmission
As of December 31, 2019, our transmission and storage system included approximately 950 miles of FERC-regulated interstate pipelines that
have interconnect points to seven interstate pipelines and multiple LDCs. As of December 31, 2019, the transmission and storage system was
supported by 39 compressor units, with total throughput capacity of approximately 4.4 Bcf per day and compression of approximately
135,000 horsepower; and 18 associated natural gas storage reservoirs, which had a peak withdrawal capacity of approximately 900 MMcf per
day and a working gas capacity of approximately 43 Bcf. In 2019, our transmission operations transmitted 2,913 BBtu of natural gas per day, on
average.
Water
As of December 31, 2019, our water system  included approximately 180 miles of pipeline that deliver fresh water from the Monongahela River,
the Ohio River, local reservoirs, and several regional waterways. In addition, the water system assets included 28 freshwater impoundment
facilities. In 2019, our water operations distributed 1,808 million gallons of water.
We are well-positioned to continue to gather natural gas in North America’s most productive natural gas basin, the Marcellus; increase
natural gas access and availability to local, regional, and national markets; and provide water services to natural gas producers across our two
operating basins. Further, we expect that the MVP project, together with our Equitrans Expansion Project—which includes the Redhook
compressor station, Mobley interconnect, and Hammerhead pipeline, for which ﬁrm capacity commitments will commence with MVP in-
service—will primarily drive our organic growth and that our future growth also will be supported by the MVP Southgate project.
Employee Proﬁle
At year-end 2019, Equitrans employed 801 people across our operations. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. All Equitrans employee data is compiled utilizing our human resources information system (HRIS) and all contractor information
is compiled utilizing the Coupa Contingent Workforce contract worker management system.
3 Employees by Gender
Male 626
Female 175801
TOTALEmployees by Region
Pennsylvania 609
West Virginia 140
Ohio 46
North Carolina 6801
TOTAL
A signiﬁcant portion of our work activities are performed by workers who are not employees. These workers are contractors and serve in the
following capacities:
Inspectors: Ensure that construction-related activities are
performed according to all appropriate guidelines and drawing
speciﬁcations across various concentrations including
environmental, coating and corrosion, and welding.Landmen:  Research courthouse records and obtain access
agreements and rights-of-way, locate surface and gas estate
ownership, and analyze, interpret, prepare, negotiate, and acquire
fee properties and other related contracts.Abstractors: Review copies of records, documents, estates, and
other ﬁlings from various county, state, and federal records.
Systems Analysts:  Analyze speciﬁc business areas and participate
in the development and implementation of business and
technology projects to meet Equitrans’ current long-term goals.
Business Strategy
Equitrans’ principal strategy is to achieve the scale and scope of a top-tier midstream company by leveraging our existing assets, executing
on our growth projects and, where appropriate, seeking and executing on strategically aligned acquisition and joint venture opportunities
and other strategic transactions. Equitrans also maintains a focus on strengthening our balance sheet through (i) highly predictable cash
ﬂows backed by ﬁrm reservation fees, (ii) actions to de-lever our balance sheet, (iii) disciplined capital spending, (iv) operating cost control,
and (v) an appropriate dividend policy. As part of our approach to organic growth, Equitrans is focused on building and completing our key
transmission and gathering growth projects, many of which are supported by contracts with ﬁrm capacity commitments. In alignment with
this strategy, our core commitment to safety and the enrichment of our communities is unwavering as we work to meet the United States’
growing demand for natural gas. We work with a diverse group of suppliers from across the United States and seek to engage with suppliers
that share our values and commitment to safety and community.
Association MembershipsAmerican Petroleum Institute (API)
Interstate Natural Gas Association of
America (INGAA)
Marcellus Shale Coalition
Ohio Oil and Gas Association
Pennsylvania Chamber of Business &
IndustryPennsylvania Independent Oil & Gas
Association
Public Affairs Council
Utilities Telecommunications and
Energy Coalition of West VirginiaWest Virginia Manufacturers
AssociationExternal Initiatives
API Environmental Partnership
INGAA Methane Commitment
ONE Future Coalition
The API Environmental Partnership is a voluntary industry trade group that focuses on a systematic approach to reducing emissions of
methane and VOCs by using more efﬁcient and effective technologies—speciﬁcally pneumatic controllers and Leak Detection and Repair
(LDAR) programs.
INGAA’s Methane Commitment is a transmission-speciﬁc initiative that focuses on methane reduction efforts to minimize emissions from
pipelines, compressor stations, pneumatic controllers, and storage wells.
ONE Future is a group of natural gas companies working together to voluntarily reduce methane emissions across the natural gas supply
chain. Together with its member companies, ONE Future is focused on demonstrating an innovative, performance-based approach to the
management of methane emissions, with a goal of limiting methane emissions across the natural gas value chain to one percent or less of
total (gross) natural gas production by 2025.
4Vision, Mission, Values
Our Vision, Mission, and Values are foundational to our business. As an organization, these components set the tone for who we are and who
we want to be.
Our Vision:  What we aspire to be
To be the premier midstream services company in North America—providing safe, reliable, and innovative infrastructure solutions for the
natural gas industry.
Our Mission: What we do and how we do it
We move the energy that keeps America moving—providing innovative solutions and reliable energy infrastructure services in a safe,
efﬁcient, and responsible manner. We operate with integrity, accountability, and transparency to:
Deliver sustained value for our customers and shareholders
Provide an engaging workplace for our employees
Preserve and protect the environment
Support the communities where we live and work
 Our Core Values:  The principles that guide our behaviors and decisions
5Five Pillars of Sustainability
Our ﬁve pillars are designed to enable Equitrans to deliver long-term, sustainable value to all of our stakeholders.
Safety Leadership
First and foremost of our corporate sustainability pillars, Safety Leadership is always our top priority—above all else. For Equitrans, the safety
and well-being of our employees, contractors, and community members takes precedence and the execution of our business strategy is not
successful unless Zero is Possible. We staunchly believe that workplace injuries are preventable. Everyone at Equitrans has a collective
responsibility to exhibit safety leadership to realize success and, most importantly, create a workplace where Zero is Possible.
Environmental Stewardship
The conservation of the natural environments in which we operate is critically important to Equitrans. We strive to meet or exceed regulatory
requirements. To accomplish this, we work to continuously improve through various initiatives and the incorporation of sustainable practices
such as utilizing innovative technologies to enhance our emissions reduction program and optimizing our natural resource use.
Corporate Governance
Our commitment to upholding transparent corporate governance principles is shared by our highest governance body, the Board of
Directors of Equitrans, which is responsible for overseeing the management of our business activities and affairs. The Board’s Health, Safety,
Security and Environmental committee provides oversight in respect of our sustainability initiatives.
Economic Impact
Equitrans delivers clean, affordable domestic energy; supports economic development in local communities; creates jobs; and generates tax
revenue to support state and local governments, all of which positively contribute to the U.S. economy and local economies. We engage with
the communities where we operate to understand the issues they face, develop solutions that support them, and pursue new opportunities
to contribute to economic growth.
Stakeholder Engagement
Our stakeholders provide respected insight into the operations of our business. We believe that sustaining an open, transparent, and honest
dialogue with our diverse group of stakeholders enables Equitrans to better identify process gaps and implement strategies to swiftly address
matters of concern.
About Equitrans
Our Corporate
Sustainability
Framework
As our Core Values deﬁne who we are as a company,
our corporate sustainability framework incorporates
these values into its ﬁve pillars to deﬁne our approach
to sustainability.
6Approach to Stakeholder Engagement
Engagement is beneﬁcial for all of our stakeholders and helps to build relationships in which conﬁdence in the transparency of our
operations enables our collective success. We proactively seek engagement opportunities with all of our stakeholders to build and maintain
relationships and to gain valuable feedback. We do this through the regular communication of our business strategy, operations, and risks,
and through ongoing dialogue regarding stakeholder concerns. Stakeholders with whom we interact frequently include landowners who
have granted us access to their property, local governments with regulations governing our operations, and the local communities affected
by our presence. It is important that we communicate with these groups during construction activities, negotiations, and the permitting
process. Through our communications, our stakeholders stay apprised of our ongoing activities and are able to voice questions or concerns. If
an issue arises, we quickly address it and communicate its resolution to stakeholders.
Once a project is complete, operational communications occur on an as-needed basis. Through our Owner Relations telephone number (1-
888-613-7848), landowners can quickly communicate any questions, concerns, or needs to Equitrans. For our engagements with government
agencies, it is important that we develop meaningful relationships and establish communications through face-to-face, phone, and email
interactions throughout the life of the project. This approach enables both parties to stay updated regarding each other’s ongoing activities
and changes.
Our Investor Relations (IR) and management teams regularly engage with our institutional shareholders via phone calls, quarterly earnings
calls open to all investors, and in-person meetings. These teams also frequently attend conferences hosted by banks and midstream-focused
research ﬁrms to engage with current and potential shareholders as well as research analysts who publish research on our company. In
addition to engaging with institutional shareholders, our IR team also frequently communicates with individual shareholders, typically
through receiving inbound calls. Our discussions and information sessions with shareholders and other market participants help to provide
us with valuable feedback and broaden our investor base.
Basis for Identifying & Selecting Stakeholders
As part of our commitment to stakeholder engagement, we continually evaluate our operations to identify connected stakeholders. We
engage with all potential stakeholders that may be impacted by our operations or have questions or concerns regarding them. This
engagement is especially important for those who will be directly impacted by our business operations or who will provide regulatory
oversight for such operations. We identify the contractors, suppliers, and landowners with whom we seek agreements as well as the
municipalities and regulatory authorities that directly govern our business activities. We also participate in public meetings, community
events, and community communications. Our shareholders are identiﬁed primarily through SEC Form 13F holdings and shareholder
surveillance services. For the purposes of this report, we incorporated information reﬂecting the breadth of our stakeholder base.
Stakeholders EngagedCommunity Members
ContractorsFinancial Research Analysts
First RespondersGovernment Ofﬁcials and
Agencies
LandownersShareholders
Suppliers102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
About Equitrans
Stakeholder
Engagement
At Equitrans, we operate with our stakeholders in
mind across everything we do. Our company’s success
is dependent on maintaining our social license to
operate, and we strive to ensure our activities are safe,
responsible, and collaborative. 
7Key Topics & Concerns Raised by Stakeholders
The key topics and concerns raised by our stakeholders are often similar from project to project and are mostly temporary in nature during
the construction phase of our operations. These key topics and concerns include roadway usage and damage, increased trafﬁc, and noise.
These and other topics and concerns are considered and addressed by the relevant project team members and escalated to the appropriate
management level as warranted. Furthermore, our project teams proactively work to mitigate issues during construction in order to limit
potential stakeholder impacts. As part of our reporting process, we determined the topics of highest priority to Equitrans and our
stakeholders through our materiality assessment. Please see the Materiality section for further information.
8Our Process & Material Topics
In 2019, Equitrans conducted our ﬁrst materiality assessment to evaluate, identify, and prioritize the issues most relevant to our business and
stakeholders. With the guidance of a consulting ﬁrm, our materiality assessment process followed best practices for identifying, prioritizing,
and validating environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics of particular importance. We leveraged both the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) as inputs to the assessment.
Our assessment incorporated evidence from regulators, sustainability standards, investors, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), our
customers, and our suppliers. As further enhancement to our process, we used a third-party ESG risk management software platform to
review peer and industry information. We conducted interviews with internal leaders and consulted with certain members of our Board of
Directors to prioritize and validate topics. For each of our information sources, we evaluated the evidence associated with the importance of
each topic to determine the topic’s overall relative importance to Equitrans and our stakeholders. At the conclusion of the assessment, we
recognized ten top-tier material ESG topics and validated our results internally. These ten material topics are listed below, in alphabetical
order, and form the basis for our report.Air Emissions and Climate Change
Business Ethics and Integrity 
Community Engagement
Corporate Governance Diversity and Inclusion
Economic Impact
Energy
Environmental ResourcesOccupational Health and Safety
Pipeline Safety, Spills, and Leaks102-15, 102-46, 102-47
About Equitrans
Materiality
We seek to understand and manage the impacts of
our activities by evaluating both business and
stakeholder priorities. Through our materiality
assessment, we recognized ten top-tier material
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics
and validated our results internally.
9Approach to Climate Change
As a business, our most signiﬁcant climate impact is methane emissions, a greenhouse gas (GHG). Since the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) estimates that methane is 25 times more harmful to the climate than carbon dioxide, Equitrans is working to minimize
methane emissions. As a natural gas pipeline owner and operator, methane is the primary component of the natural gas that we gather from
the point of extraction, move to processing, and deliver to consumers. We will continue to understand, assess, and improve our management
of and approach to methane emission mitigation.
Natural gas, and subsequently methane, is a resource necessary to meet our country’s current and future energy needs. Compared to other
fossil fuels, natural gas produces signiﬁcantly less GHG emissions when combusted. Nevertheless, we recognize the importance of making
changes to mitigate the impact of GHG emissions, while also meeting increasing energy demands. To achieve this balance, Equitrans
commits to reducing our GHG emissions, recognizing that simply meeting regulatory requirements for greenhouse gas emissions is not
sufﬁcient. We are determined to meet and exceed applicable compliance requirements by actively applying related best practices to reduce
our carbon footprint.
For 2019, after one full year of operations as a standalone company, we are pleased to share our ﬁrst comprehensive calculation of our Scope 1,
2, and 3 emissions for assets that are owned 100% by Equitrans and for Eureka assets.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, EM-MD-1 10a.1
Environmental
Air Emissions & 
Climate Change
Risks and opportunities from our emissions impact
our company, whether they are potential regulatory
changes or physical effects on our assets.
Acknowledging these impacts, Equitrans is taking
action, both to reduce our risks and to position
ourselves for future success.
10Scope 1 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Metric Tons CO2e)*
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 1,576,147.5
Methane (CH 4) 206,963.5
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 845.41,783,956
TOTALScope 2 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Metric Tons CO2e)†
†Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from
the generation of purchased energy. Our Scope
2 emissions calculations included zero (0)
values for HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3.
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 38,408.6
Methane (CH 4) 59.8
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 77.438,545
TOTAL
*Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from 
owned or controlled sources. Our Scope 1 
emissions calculations included zero (0) values
for HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3.Scope 3 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Metric Tons CO2e)‡
‡Scope 3 emissions are other indirect emissions
that occur in the value chain. Our Scope 3 GHG
emissions assume all gas delivered by
Equitrans is combusted. This data does not
account for gas from Equitrans’ gathering
systems that may also ﬂow through an
Equitrans’ transmission system, which may be
double counted. Our Scope 3 emissions
calculations included zero (0) values for HFCs,
PFCs, SF6, and NF3.
204,211,813
107,772Carbon Dioxide (CO 2)
Methane (CH 4)
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 102,025204,421,610
TOTAL
Current Regulatory Requirements
Presently, the only federal methane regulation that affects our assets is 40 CFR Part 60 Subpart OOOOa or Quad Oa. Announced in 2016,
Quad Oa was the ﬁrst regulation to explicitly target greenhouse gases. Currently, Equitrans’ assets affected by Quad Oa are reciprocating
compressors, pneumatic controllers, storage vessels, and fugitive emission components at compressor stations, depending on their date of
construction, reconstruction, or modiﬁcation. All of our applicable operations meet Quad Oa compliance. Additionally, we have expanded our
leak detection program at compressor stations that would otherwise not be subject to a leak detection requirement.
Methane Emissions*
11, 2 4 2 . 7 3
tonsMethane Intensity Rate*
0 . 00 21
tons/MMscf*Includes assets that are 100% owned by Equitrans and Eureka assets.
Generally, GHG emissions at the federal level are currently required to be reported to the EPA if a facility’s emissions exceed 25,000 metric 
tons of CO 2e. This is involves submitting an annual report on the facility’s GHG emissions as required by the EPA’s greenhouse gas reporting 
rules in 40 CFR 98 Subpart W. Currently, 12 of our facilities emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO 2e, and we report GHG emissions for each of 
these facilities to the EPA. None of our GHG emissions are covered under emissions-limiting regulations, beyond Quad Oa.
Current state regulatory requirements for methane are included in air permits from environmental agencies. In most cases, methane control 
requirements are a co-beneﬁt to Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions and are not explicitly stated. As both methane and VOCs are 
present in natural gas, Clean Air Act regulations that govern VOCs also subsequently control for methane. Pennsylvania compressor station 
requirements are the sole exception to this practice, as the new Pennsylvania General Permit 5 (GP-5) for compressor stations, processing 
plants, and transmission stations explicitly includes methane requirements. Equitrans presently holds one GP-5 permit, along with several 
older permit versions. A few other states require methane emissions to be reported to state environmental agencies. These include Ohio, 
which mandates methane emissions from Title V facilities to be reported, and West Virginia.
11Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategies
At Equitrans, we seek to reduce our GHG emissions from all of our assets. We are a member of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of  
America’s Methane Commitment, the American Petroleum Institute’s Environmental Partnership, and the ONE Future Coalition, a group of  
natural gas companies committed to limiting methane emissions to 1 percent across the value chain by 2025. 
Gathering and Boosting
0 . 009%
GHG Emissions IntensityTransmission
0 . 0 12 %
GHG Emissions Intensity
Our Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) team plays a signiﬁcant role in reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. The team’s main approach to
identifying and repairing leaks is to use an infrared camera that can recognize leaking natural gas with great accuracy. After identiﬁcation
and documentation of a leak, our LDAR team repairs the leak and then takes another image of the leak site to compare the addressed leak
image to the unaddressed one, subsequently conﬁrming that natural gas is no longer escaping.
Compressor Stations
When a planned blowdown occurs for maintenance or testing purposes, we recycle the
discharge gas at compressor stations before it can be vented to the atmosphere, where
the station is physically set-up to do so. This is done through suction as the suction
pressure is less than the pipeline discharge pressure, causing the gas to move to the
compressor station rather than being vented to the atmosphere. Previously, we
conducted blowdowns at our compressor stations annually for emergency shutdown
(ESD) testing in a method that vented all gas to the atmosphere. Recently, however, we
have changed our operating procedures in line with Pipeline and Hazardous Materials
Safety Administration (PHMSA) guidance for ESD tests that allow for the blocking of
vents during testing as long as a full initial test demonstrates the blowdown can be
completed. This new ESD testing method will help ensure that no emissions are vented
to the atmosphere during a routine test. In addition to these tests, our Operations team
routinely inspects compressor station sites to visually inspect the station to ensure that
there are no potential issues. 
Our newer compressor stations come equipped with instrument air systems that run
pneumatic controllers. These air-driven controllers prevent natural gas from being
released into the atmosphere. We also proactively replaced many of our older high-bleed
pneumatic controllers that can bleed more than six standard cubic feet of methane per
hour with newer versions with low bleed rates. These newer stations are also equipped with air or electric systems to start their engines rather
than the natural gas used for older stations which has associated greenhouse gas emissions. For the future, we are evaluating the use of
electric compressor stations to further reduce our GHG emissions.
We also practice “work-stacking” for maintenance on our compressor stations to reduce the number of required station shutdowns. By
“stacking” maintenance which would otherwise require multiple blowdowns, we reduce emissions while concurrently maximizing
equipment uptime and availability.
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Currently, Equitrans has not yet established a baseline year for emissions from which to make reduction of GHG emissions calculations.
However, Equitrans is currently evaluating our approach to this baseline calculation with the intent of reporting respective reductions in
future years.
12Approach to Air Emissions
Air Emissions (Metric Tons)*
*Includes assets that are 100% owned by
Equitrans and Eureka assets
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 1,647.5
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 598.4
Carbon Monoxide (CO) 472.1
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 300.9
Particulate Matter (PM) 136.2
Formaldehyde (HCHO) 89.5
Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 14.33,258
TOTALEquitrans is committed to meeting or exceeding air emissions requirements across all of our
assets and striving for enhanced performance that goes beyond compliance. As part of our
objective, we remain diligent in identifying asset areas where our air emissions can be
eliminated or reduced.
Across our geographic footprint, we quantify our operations’ impact to air quality through our
emissions inventory reporting process required by each state in which we operate. These
reports, along with our compliance with state and federal regulations, verify that Equitrans
does not violate the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. 
We also utilize a Work Management System to ensure that our Operations team maintains
equipment in accordance with its applicable maintenance schedule. This regular maintenance
minimizes air emissions to the atmosphere. Our Design and Construction Manual, which
outlines Equitrans’ standards for equipment selection and work procedures, also is utilized to
engineer and build facilities using methods that minimize air emissions. 
Evaluating Our Emissions Performance
We evaluate our performance to continue reducing our emissions. We aim to ensure these
strategies work well through meticulous evaluations of our emissions performance and
practical adjustments when and where our processes can be improved. We regularly evaluate
our routine compliance reporting to proactively identify potential compliance issues and work
to correct any identiﬁed gaps in a timely manner. We expect to continue our methane
reduction efforts by evaluating and identifying methods of further improvement to our
management practices, which we will document in future reporting years.
We have also recently formed an internal multi-disciplinary Methane Emissions Reduction Committee to identify cost-effective methods to
reduce methane emissions and emissions of other co-beneﬁt pollutants. The Committee is also working to improve emissions-related data in
an effort to better identify target areas for emissions reductions and to drive future reduction actions.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-6, 305-7, EM-MD-120a.1
13Approach to Environmental
Resources Management
It is our goal to safeguard the biodiversity and overall health of ecosystems throughout our operational footprint and, wherever possible,
ensure these important resources are undisturbed and remain in the same condition as we found them. We take every opportunity to
responsibly manage the environmental resources with which we come in contact. At project commencement, before construction begins,
we evaluate and identify environmentally sensitive areas along the pipeline’s proposed route and/or facility’s proposed footprint. Our
Environmental team leads these efforts and makes careful decisions on how to proceed with our activities in order to minimize any potential
biodiversity and environmental impacts. This begins with minimizing the amount of disturbance necessary for project construction. We make
every effort to avoid and minimize impacts to environmental resources. Through our pipeline routing and facility footprint design efforts, we
are able to avoid permanent impacts and minimize temporary impacts.
As a member of various industry associations, including Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, we participate in working groups that
focus on site planning, development, restoration, and other topics that foster land protection.
Equitrans’ transmission operations occur across Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. At present, we operate on 109,931 acres near or within
environmentally sensitive or protected areas. Protected areas that may be affected by our operations within these states include, but are not
limited to, Pennsylvania State Parks, Pennsylvania State Game Lands, Ohio State Parks, and property owned by United States Army Corps of
Engineers. The most common species of state or federal concern found within our operating areas are bats, mussels, and various plants. Prior
to the commencement of operations, we conduct studies to determine whether threatened or endangered species are present in the region.
If any threatened or endangered species are found, we consult with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and state wildlife
agencies to ensure that operations do not adversely affect these protected species.
Speciﬁc to the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP) project construction operations in West Virginia and Virginia, we consulted with the USFWS on
potential impacts to regional bat, mussel, ﬁsh, and plant species prior to construction. For the MVP Southgate project in Virginia and North
Carolina, similar consultations with the USFWS are being conducted as part of the regulatory review process. These consultations for both
projects remain ongoing and we will continue to cooperate with the relevant state and federal agencies and commit to comply with all
required biodiversity protections.
Once construction begins, we ensure our activities do not have any signiﬁcant negative impact on the area’s environmental resources. At
construction commencement, our teams receive training on environmental awareness to ensure they are familiar with the environmentally
sensitive areas along the pipeline route and the environmental permit conditions for the project. Environmentally sensitive areas and the
approved project limits of disturbance are also clearly marked with ﬂagging and signage to ensure necessary avoidance. In the majority of
Equitrans’ construction activities, erosion impacts from earth disturbances are short-term, temporary impacts. Nevertheless, we aim to limit
these impacts to the greatest extent possible. Prior to earth disturbance activities, we install the appropriate erosion and sediment control
Best Management Practices (BMPs). These BMPs are then regularly monitored and maintained throughout construction until we acheive
adequate vegetation stabilization to prevent erosion. For aquatic resources within a pipeline route that cannot be avoided, we utilize
construction crews specialized in aquatic crossings in order to complete the crossings in a method that minimizes impacts.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 304-1, 304-2, EM-MD-160a.1, EM-MD-160a.3
En vir onm ental
Environmental
Resources
Protecting and preserving the environmental
resources near our assets, during both asset
construction and operation, is central to our mission as
a company. We acknowledge that our activities can
and do impact the surrounding landscape, including
areas with high biodiversity value. 
14When we complete a pipeline and place it into operation, we deploy strategies to
protect environmental resources. We strive to meet regulatory requirements set
forth by state and federal regulatory agencies. We also work closely with property
owners to restore their land as close as possible to original conditions where impacts
occurred and to accommodate any special requests or preferences. We reestablish
contours and revegetate with state-approved seed mixes, native seed mixes, and
vegetation requested by property owners. We also commonly accommodate
regulatory agency requests to use specialized seed mixes (e.g., pollinator mixes) and
property owner requests for topsoil segregation which preserves removed topsoil for
restoration once local work is complete. These techniques support local ﬂora and
fauna by allowing wildlife movement, restoration of pre-existing habitat, and
prevention of invasive species. By supporting local landowners and communities, we
seek to build and maintain positive relationships while also supporting biodiversity
and habitat protection. To better prevent slope failures that may have negative
environmental consequences, we have developed an in-depth engineering slope
design program to help us proactively identify places where slope failures may
occur. Once an at-risk area has been identiﬁed, we work to install preventative
measures to maintain the stability of the slopes.
We leverage Enviance, an environmental database software, to track environmental
permit authorizations and conditions to ensure we maintain compliance. We also
regularly review permit data to deﬁne compliance actions as deadlines approach.
Operational Impacts on Environmental Resources
Operational Disturbances*
2 , 251
terrestrial acreage disturbed
Operational Disturbances*
100%
terrestrial acreage disturbed that was restored
*Includes assets that are 100% owned by Equitrans and Eureka
assetsWe make every effort to limit any potential impact our business
operations may have on environmental resources. However, we realize
that both direct and indirect impacts will occur. In most instances,
Equitrans’ impacts to both terrestrial and aquatic resources from
construction activities and pipeline operations are minor and temporary.
When impacts, either brief or permanent, do exceed regulatory
thresholds, we work diligently to remediate them. In 2019, we identiﬁed
one hydrocarbon-related impact from our operations, which was a leak
of produced ﬂuids with minimal hydrocarbons into a stream. This leak,
the volume of which was not quantiﬁed, was quickly reported to the
Natural Resources Conservation Service and absorption booms were
placed in the affected area to mitigate the produced ﬂuids that had
leaked.
Habitat Restoration
We work to restore disturbed habitats to their original state in order to
ensure that an area’s environmental resources continue to ﬂourish after
pipeline construction. We frequently install bat habitat boxes and plant
pollinator species where possible. We also restore riparian habitats
including streams, ponds, and other wetlands that have been affected
by our pipeline operations due to their high biodiversity value. By restoring these habitats, we not only provide a supporting environment for
terrestrial species, we also minimize the sedimentation that enters riparian areas which subsequently improves habitat quality for aquatic
species.
Speciﬁc to MVP construction, we are working with regulatory agencies to establish a conservation easement for a West Virginia property near
the pipeline. Along the MVP we have restored/protected 2.6 acres of habitat in West Virginia and 30.1 acres of habitat in Virginia. These
habitats have been restored/protected as mitigation banks which, as deﬁned by the EPA, are aquatic resource areas including wetlands and
streams.
Equitrans, along with other oil and gas companies, has been working with the USFWS to develop a multi-state Habitat Conservation Plan
(HCP) to avoid, minimize, and offset the effects of our operations on three native bat species in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia over the
next 35 years. The HCP is a component of a voluntary application to the USFWS for an Incidental Take Permit (ITP) that allows for the
incidental take of the native bat species that are predicted to occur throughout the operational area. As part of the application, the USFWS
requires the development of a HCP for the impacted species. The HCP will beneﬁt the affected species through coordinated mitigation
efforts that are more effective for species conservation and growth than they would be without an ITP. While the HCP is still in development,
we anticipate it will be approved in 2021, at which time we will be able to enroll our projects in the program.
Evaluating Our Approach to Environmental Resources
Our operational footprint in primarily rural areas means our pipelines traverse intrinsically and economically valuable natural environments.
We work diligently to ensure the approaches we use to protect these natural environments are as effective as possible. From project initiation
to completion, and throughout a pipeline’s operational lifespan, we continually evaluate the ways in which we identify sensitive
environmental areas and how we avoid and protect them. It is our goal to avoid permanent impacts to environmental resources from the
routing and locations of our pipes and facilities, respectively, and to do this we extensively review these decisions to evaluate what we did well
and what we can do better.
15Approach to Energy Management
Internal Energy Consumption (Gigajoules)
Electricity Consumption 16,246
Heating Consumption 98917,236
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION
(NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES)Across our asset footprint, we aim to effectively manage our energy use, enact efﬁciency
measures, and reduce consumption. Energy management occurs at both our facilities and
ﬁeld operations. From a facilities perspective, we strive to continuously decrease our
environmental impact as it relates to energy across our owned and leased assets. Our LEED
certiﬁed Senior Operations and Maintenance Sustainability Manager directs these efforts, and
we proactively evaluate strategies to effectively reduce our facility energy consumption. To do
this we leverage online applications to set optimal lighting levels and manage the motion
sensor sensitivity of facility lights. We also utilize centralized temperature controls, computer
monitor sleep modes, and an extensive preventive maintenance program to quickly address
energy consumption issues. In our owned facilities, we also installed energy efﬁcient LED
lighting which uses 75 percent less energy than comparable ﬂorescent bulbs. We regularly
evaluate new approaches to optimize and reduce our energy consumption from our facilities,
including replacing older redundant HVAC systems with new more efﬁcient rooftop units.
At our ﬁeld operations, many of our compressor stations along our pipelines generate their
own power through the pipelines ﬂowing natural gas. By generating energy directly on site,
rather than from gasoline- or diesel-powered generators, we more efﬁciently power our ﬁeld
operations. We are also evaluating the use of solar panels as a source of energy for compressor
station operations. 
Evaluating Our Approach to Energy Management
We track our energy consumption across our facilities and ﬁeld operations—and the environmental and economic beneﬁts resulting from
our energy management practices drive us to proactively evaluate our approach for effectiveness and to make enhancements where
necessary. We regularly review the data to identify areas where changes and efﬁciencies can be made to reduce our consumption. We also
seek out, evaluate, and install technological solutions to reduce our energy consumption where possible.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1
Environmental
Energy
As a transporter of energy, Equitrans is committed to
efﬁciently using energy and reducing our total energy
use throughout our operational footprint. In doing so,
we reduce our emissions, protect the environment,
and strengthen our economic performance.
16Approach to Occupational
Health & Safety
We do not compromise the safety of our employees or contractors for any business advantage, and we will not consider the execution of any
project as successful unless zero injuries occur. Every Equitrans employee is empowered to look out for each other, point out hazards, and
provide guidance. This empowerment strengthens our workforce and, together with our continued emphasis on safety, ensures that we
integrate safety into every job function across Equitrans. Our Health, Saftey, Security, and Environmental (HSSE) Policy  afﬁrms our dedication
to maintaining a strong HSSE culture.
Our safety focus extends to our vendors and suppliers. We consider these partners to be an extension of Equitrans and we require that they
place signiﬁcant emphasis on their own safety efforts. Being safe creates value for our business by lowering costs and enabling efﬁcient
production, as a safe employee will be more productive. At Equitrans, it is everyone’s responsibility to create a safe work environment. We
strive to create a culture that values safety above all else.
We are all held accountable for following safety procedures, and employees are encouraged to demonstrate safety leadership. Each Equitrans
employee has a responsibility to protect themselves and their co-workers every day. Everyone has authorization to stop work when unsafe
conditions arise, no matter their position or responsibilities. We conduct every active Equitrans business operation in accordance with all
applicable health and safety requirements established by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and other
regulatory bodies. Regulatory compliance is the ﬁrst layer of our safety practices but is by no means our only safety focus.
ZIP Today
We manage safety at Equitrans through our safety platform ZIP Today, or Zero Is Possible—Today. Driven by our HSSE
team and with oversight by the Board’s HSSE Committee, ZIP Today is the manifestation of our overriding belief that
success is only realized when every contributor is safe and unharmed. As we continue to build a robust safety culture,
it is important that our employees and contractors remember that their safety takes precedence above all else, a point
that ZIP Today helps foster.
In 2019, we deepened our commitment to the Zero Is Possible—Today platform. ZIP Today still holds true to our original Zero Is Possible safety
culture; however, it has been transformed into a way of life at Equitrans. Three safety subcommittees within our HSSE team—representing
operations, construction, and ofﬁce employees—developed an enhanced “way-of-life mentality” that is exhibited throughout our operations.
In line with our corporate safety objectives, each committee developed and tailored safety target assignments for implementation across
their respective areas. The basis for the transformation was an introduction to our Incident with Serious Potential (ISP) concept, a risk-based
system focused on precursors of incidents, near-misses, and observations. Identifying precursors enables us to build safety practices that help
prevent accidents from occurring.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7, 403-9, 403-10
Social
Occupational 
Health & Safety
We believe that a successful safety culture underpins a
successful business and we demonstrate our
commitment to safety every day. We provide our
employees and contractors with the necessary tools
and training to be safe and successful, and to go home
every day to their loved ones. 
17ZIP Today and the supporting Equitrans Midstream Safety Management System extends across the company and is incorporated into every
aspect of our work. Our front-line supervisors are the foundation for ZIP Today, instilling safe working practices for employees through their
embodiment of our safety culture. Supervisors and employees are supported by our HSSE team, which provides guidance, training, and other
resources on safety issues. Safe work practices are integrated into every job function, and employees are trained on hazard identiﬁcation,
elimination, and control, based on their speciﬁc job function. Each employee, contractor, or vendor has the ability and is obligated to stop
work if they believe a situation is unsafe and can do so without fear of retribution.
Hazard Identiﬁcation
Equitrans employees receive training to identify the hazards or potential hazards that are speciﬁc to their job; and managers frequently
engage with employees to ensure potential hazards remain top-of-mind for employees. Each work order includes applicable safety policies
and standard operating procedures, which outline job requirements and the necessary tools and procedures to safely and effectively perform
the job. Every workday in the ﬁeld begins with a Tailgate Safety Meeting (TSM) during which the team outlines and discusses the work for
that day. The involved employees and contractors then work to identify potential worksite hazards and discuss and integrate safety control
measures for the identiﬁed hazards into their work processes for the day. If any unforeseen circumstances arise impacting safety or if any
employee or contractor questions any part of the work once it begins, every employee and contractor on the job has the responsibility to
utilize their stop work authority, make the situation safe, and immediately notify their supervisor.
Risk Assessment
Equitrans developed our Standard Operating Procedures with safety in mind. These procedures explain the actions required to assess risks
and perform a job safely and correctly. In addition, our Engineering Department designs our systems and facilities under applicable
regulatory guidelines. We also implemented a design review process that involves several departments and employees who collectively
review facility layouts and designs to mitigate potential risks and ensure safety. In addition to our Safety and Engineering Departments, our
Pipeline Integrity and Environmental Departments are fully integrated into our safety culture and risk assessment processes.
Incident Investigations
For every safety-related incident or observation that transpires, regardless of whether an injury occurred, we carry out a comprehensive
incident investigation—the results of which help us to learn and improve. Our investigation process starts with the identiﬁcation of the
incident or observation root cause and what precursors may have led to the incident’s occurrence. The front-line supervisor leads the
investigation, with assistance from the HSSE team and experts from the associated incident or observation. Next, we evaluate and identify
solutions to prevent a similar incident from occurring again. This process may involve multiple departments within Equitrans as the
corrective actions identiﬁed may encompass multiple functions within the work process. For each incident in which an injury does occur, we
record the nature of the incident, as prescribed by the OSHA Injury/Illness Recordkeeping Guidelines. This record serves as another source of
information for our incident investigations. We actively communicate each incident or observation across Equitrans along with the identiﬁed
corrective actions. Safety bulletins, alerts, and training materials also may be available to supplement this communication.
Safety Education & Training
An informed employee who is able to identify safety risks and can take action to mitigate
hazards is less likely to be injured. We place considerable emphasis on safety education
and training, and we are committed to providing our employees the resources they need
to work safely and successfully. In 2019, Equitrans employees completed more than 7,500
hours of safety education and training. Every Equitrans employee participates in the
Equitrans general orientation upon their hiring which includes information on our safety
culture. Each employee also receives an in-depth safety orientation upon arrival at their
work location. Employees also attend core safety training annually, in addition to
monthly specialized OSHA and Equitrans education tailored to an employee’s applicable
work responsibilities. Examples of these tailored trainings include how to investigate
incidents, safe driving practices to follow, and how to recognize and control hazards.
Employees are also required to complete Equitrans-speciﬁc Operator Qualiﬁcation (OQ)
training speciﬁc to their job responsibilities. Lastly, employees receive extensive on-the-
job training from their supervisors and peers. 
For our contractors, we provide a general hazard awareness training and a detailed hot
work training to contractors during project kickoff meetings. Contractors are also
required to take a Safety and Environmental Awareness Program (SEAP) training focused
on both environmental and safety issues. Contractors involved in tree felling operations
are required to take specialized safety training. In June 2020, we developed and implemented a comprehensive contractor orientation video a
part of our safety training program. All contractors and suppliers are required to review this video prior to performing work at any Equitrans
facility or project site.
Our Safety Performance
Employee Safety
Equitrans diligently tracks numerous safety-related metrics to evaluate our safety performance. Utilizing our Safety Metric Tracking System,
we track all OSHA related injury metrics as well our Equitrans-speciﬁc safety metrics. These metrics include Incidents with Serious Potential
(ISP), which includes events or situations where a behavior or activity may have the reasonable potential to cause serious injury or signiﬁcant
18Total Recordable Incident Rate
0 . 81
Lost Time Incident Rate
0 . 6 7property damage; and Observations with Serious Potential (OSP), which
includes observations of activities or behaviors that, if allowed to continue, have
the potential to cause serious injuries or signiﬁcant property damage. We
recently developed a new safety metric that we began tracking—Corrected
Safety Opportunity (CSO). The CSO metric reﬂects reported hazards (without
serious potential), deﬁcient procedures or process, or suggested improvements
that have been corrected or implemented. With the CSO metric, we aim to
encourage employees to report all safety observations and opportunities for
improvements in order to help increase safety awareness across Equitrans. As a
result of our collective ISP, OSP, and CSO efforts, we saw a 600 percent increase
in total reported safety observations during the ﬁrst quarter of 2020, as
compared to the ﬁrst quarter of 2019. This increase included approximately 100
reported observations, 40 of which resulted in opportunities for Equitrans to
reduce risk and enhance the safety of our work environment.
Our internal safety metrics are incorporated into employee bonuses as part of
our Short-Term Incentive Program (STIP), which aligns employee interests with
those of our shareholders and the strategic objectives of our company. By tracking and evaluating these safety metrics and linking them to
compensation, we can more effectively address any safety issues that may arise, increase the safety of our worksites and ofﬁces, identify
opportunities for improvement, and achieve employee buy-in.
In 2019, the injury and incident types most frequently recorded involved back and leg injuries. The most frequently observed safety
opportunities were associated with process safety (how a job-task can be changed to make it safer) and hazardous energy exposure. These
observations were positive examples of our employees proactively identifying potentially hazardous situations at the worksite. As a result of
our ISP observations, we made changes to our work policies and procedures, contributing to our objective of maintaining a safe work
environment for our employees and contractors, at all times.
Contractor Safety
The safety and well-being of our contractors, both in the ﬁeld and in the ofﬁce, is tremendously important. By focusing on contractor safety,
we help foster a safer and more efﬁcient work environment while also strengthening our contractor relationships. We hold our contractors to
the same standards as our employees to ensure that our job sites and the people working at them stay safe. To do this, every company that
provides contractors for our projects must hold our steadfast commitment to safety. We expect all contractors, including their subcontractors
and agents, to adhere to Equitrans’ policies and practices, as well as to all applicable U.S. laws and regulatory requirements related to health,
safety, and employment. The Equitrans Midstream Safety Management System applies to 100 percent of our contractors. Before a contractor
can begin working on any Equitrans project, they must ﬁrst be authorized by our HSSE team. Our HSSE team evaluates a contractor’s safety
record to ensure its alignment with Equitrans’ safety focus by using the ISNET World database, an industry recognized platform for the
monitoring and evaluation of contractor safety performance and documentation. In 2020, we will fully integrate the ISP concept that
supports ZIP Today into ISNET World criteria by requiring contractors to maintain a proactive safety culture focused on ISP precursors.
Contractors are also required to complete a federal OQ plan, which establishes qualiﬁcation requirements for personnel performing work for
our operations. Key contractor evaluation areas that our HSSE team currently monitors include: Safety Management Systems; Injury and
Illness Statistics; Written Safety Programs and Safety Training; Experience Modiﬁcation Rating; and Fatality History.
Metric Employee Safety Contractor Safety
Total Hours Worked 1,485,646 8,991,086
Work-Related Total Mileage 5,881,436 -
Preventable Vehicle Accidents (PVAs) 1.36 27
Total Recordable Incident Rate (OHSA Recordables Rate) 0.81 0.44
Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) 5 5
DART Rate 0.67 0.11
Incidents with Serious Potential for Injury (ISPs) 7 65
Fatalities 0 0
Fatality Rate 0 0
High-Consequence Work-Related Injuries 0 1
High-Consequence Work-Related Injuries Rate 0 0.02
Recordable Work-Related Injuries 6 20
Work-Related Ill Health Fatalities 0 0
Recordable Cases of Work-Related Ill Health 0 0
19rate totalMetric Employee Safety Contractor Safety
Lost Time Incident Rate 0.67 0.09
Near Misses 29 97
Evaluating Our Safety Performance
It is critical that we continually evaluate our safety performance so that we can identify what we are doing well, what we can improve, and
most importantly, where we are able to develop strategies to keep our employees and contractors safe. Accordingly, we continuously strive for
improvement by evaluating and reviewing our policies and standard operating procedures. We also actively engage workers to evaluate
opportunities to improve upon established safety processes. If an incident or observation does occur, we utilize our investigation process to
identify the root cause. Our policies and procedures are then amended, and education is provided to our workforce based off the discoveries.
We empower our employees to provide feedback on issues regarding occupational health and safety and the development of management
methods, including recommendations on safety policies and standard operating procedures based upon their own work experiences.
Employees also engage in safety audits and assessments where they provide insight based upon their ﬁrst-hand knowledge of our
operations.
Health & Wellness
Equitrans facilitates employee access to healthcare through the offering of High Deductible Health Plans (HDHP) from two providers. With
these plans, an employee has an annual deductible. Once the deductible is met, the plans pay 100 percent of eligible expenses in-network or
80 percent for out-of-network expenses. Additionally, each plan pays 100 percent of eligible preventive care expenses even if the deductible
has not been met. The healthcare program covers all full-time employees, as well as part-time employees who work between 20 and 35 hours
each week, and their eligible dependents. Coverage is effective on the ﬁrst day of employment.
Employees enrolled in the healthcare program also have the opportunity to establish and contribute to a tax-effective Health Savings
Account (HSA) to assist with part of the annual deductible or save for future healthcare expenses. Equitrans contributes to employee HSAs
during their ﬁrst year of employment with the company. In subsequent years, employees can continue to receive HSA contributions from
Equitrans, based on completion of annual wellness requirements.
In addition to healthcare insurance, Equitrans also offers dental and vision insurance for employees and their eligible dependents. For dental
insurance, coverage provides comprehensive dental care services with in-network preventive services covered at 100 percent. For vision
insurance, an eye exam once every calendar year is included along with speciﬁc allowances for lenses and contacts once every calendar year
and eyeglass frames once every other calendar year.
Our Take Charge Wellness program, managed in conjunction with an external wellness partner, offers wellness information, education, and
special programs to employees and their family members on topics such as nutrition, ﬁtness, safety, and disease prevention. The voluntary
program also includes access to online wellness programs and resources as well as health coaching.
20Approach to Pipeline Safety
At Equitrans, we continually safeguard our pipelines and their integrity. With our pipeline safety practices we have one goal in mind:
protecting our employees, contractors, and local communities in which we operate. We construct, operate, maintain, and repair our pipelines
in accordance with current U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations and industry standards for safe pipeline operations,
including the American Society of Mechanical Engineers’ Gas Transmission and Distribution Piping Systems Standard and the American
Petroleum Institute’s Recommended Practices 80 for Onshore Gas Gathering Lines. We adhere to federal gas transmission pipeline integrity
regulations (subpart O) and regularly complete public safety assessments like pipeline assessments, excavations, and materials testing to
ensure asset integrity. These supplemental assessments, while not required by the federal government, are an integral part of our safety-ﬁrst
culture and in 2019 we budgeted and spent approximately $2 million for related pipeline safety initiatives and $650,000 for corrosion
prevention activities. Through our commitment to meeting and exceeding compliance requirements, we are able to reduce the probability of
a serious pipeline incident and better protect our workers and local communities. Moreover, we have developed our own detailed internal
safety procedures for pipeline design, construction, operation, and maintenance. During these lifecycle phases, we proactively integrate
preventive measures to enhance the safety of our employees, contractors, and community members.
Lifecycle Phases
Design
During a pipeline’s design phase, we take every opportunity to embed safety practices. This process starts with extensively evaluating the
applicable local, state, and federal regulations and then adapting the design components and procedures to meet these regulations. When
designing, we also ensure the pipeline and its supporting infrastructure are consistent with industry standards and best practices for asset
safety, efﬁciency, and reliability. The pipeline itself is not our sole focus in the design phase. It is also extremely important to optimize the
pipeline’s route in order to avoid, wherever possible, sensitive environmental and cultural areas, as well as local communities.
Construction
Throughout a pipeline’s construction it is critical that we make every effort to conﬁrm that the pipeline’s assemblage is correct and well-done
the ﬁrst time. To do this, we inspect all activities during construction and upon completion in order to verify the safety and integrity of the
pipeline, and also to ensure proper installation procedures were utilized. One crucial aspect of this inspection process is the examination of
welds to conﬁrm their integrity once the pipeline is operational. Lastly, before a pipeline is approved and placed into service, we extensively
test it to conﬁrm its ﬁtness for service. We test by using regulatory-accepted integrity checks prior to the introduction of gas into the pipeline,
including hydrostatic pressure tests, geometric pigging tests to check for dents and ovality, and Direct Current Voltage Gradient (DCVG)
surveys which evaluate the effectiveness of corrosion protection coatings.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-3, 307-1, 416-2, EM-MD-540a.1, EM-MD-540a.2, EM-MD-540a.4
Social
Pipeline Safety, 
Spills, & Leaks
The safety and reliability of our pipelines and
supporting infrastructure is paramount to who we are
as a company. In line with our ZIP Today platform, it is
our goal to ensure the safe performance of all our
assets, while also preventing spills and leaks, and
building public trust.
21Operations
Once a pipeline has been designed, constructed, and placed into service, our
focus on safety continues through its operation. First and foremost, we
continually work to preserve the integrity of the pipeline structure and its
supporting assets in order to protect against any potential releases. The primary
method of ensuring integrity is through continual monitoring of the pipeline to
detect any shifting or movement of the pipe or earth surrounding the pipe. Our
engineering team regularly monitors the rainfall that occurs across a pipeline’s
footprint. If a particular area receives a rainfall amount that exceeds a pre-
determined limit, the team evaluates the pipeline to identify any potential slip or
to conﬁrm that the pipe has not shifted. Another way we track pipeline
movement is by placing stakes with tennis balls attached at speciﬁc intervals
along a pipeline. Once these stakes are in place, we then identify their
coordinates using GPS and consistently check these coordinates to see if they
have moved, which might indicate the pipeline has moved as well. We have
initiated the use of drones to take repeated overhead videos of the pipeline.
These videos are then overlayed on one another to detect any differences, which,
if identiﬁed, help us to evaluate whether there was any potential shifting or
movement of the pipeline. During 2020, we plan to expand the use of drones to
monitor our pipelines as they provide a convenient, precise, and, most
importantly, safer alternative to on-the-ground monitoring. 
Employees at our state-of-the art Gas Control Center control, monitor, andanalyze our pipelines’ natural gas ﬂow twenty-four hours a day, seven days a 
week. The Center enables us to quickly identify and respond to any potential issues that may arise, ensuring that the issues are resolved as 
soon and as safely possible. We work to stay ahead of potential integrity-compromising corrosion through regular cathodic protection system 
maintenance. This industry accepted practice applies electrical current to the pipeline to inhibit natural corrosion on our assets. This is 
accomplished by installing sacriﬁcial anodes along the pipeline route, which are designed to corrode at known rates, in lieu of the pipeline. 
Other corrosion prevention strategies we deploy include consistent ﬂuid sampling to quickly identify if corrosion is occurring, as well as ﬂow 
controls to limit excessive gas velocities within the pipeline, which can often contribute to erosion and corrosion of the pipe.
Maintaining pipeline rights-of-way (ROW) is another important strategy we leverage to evaluate pipeline safety. In addition to routine, on-the-
ground safety inspections, it’s important to keep the ROW open and clear in order to easily conduct aerial safety patrols using helicopters and 
drones. When our Gas Control Center or inspections teams identify a safety or maintenance concern, we act swiftly to remediate it. Our 
internal operations and maintenance program teams work together to mitigate and resolve any issues in order to ensure the integrity and 
longevity of the asset.
Integrity Management
Staying ahead of any potential pipeline integrity issue is essential to the safe operation of our pipelines. Our Compliance, Corrosion, and 
Technical training departments, working in conjunction with our ﬁeld operations team, are responsible for managing pipeline integrity at 
Equitrans. They lead our efforts by implementing strategies to meet regulatory compliance mandates and by creating risk models to identify 
and prioritize high consequence areas along the pipeline for integrity assessments based upon local populations, and land and building 
usage near the route. In 2019, the high consequence areas we inspected represented 3 percent of our total pipelines. The team also carries out 
more tailored evaluations including corrosion investigations, internal liquids analyses, governmental audits, internal audits, and pressure tests 
where needed. They also review and maintain standard operating policies and procedures, maintain pipeline construction records, and 
administer our Operator Qualiﬁcation program and other trainings for employees and contractors.
Pipeline Security
Ensuring the safety and integrity of our pipelines also requires that we stay informed of security-related risks and act diligently to reduce 
these risks as well as any potential dangers. We safeguard our assets through meticulous security planning and on-site strategies including 
fences, building locks, electronic monitoring, and consistent surveillance.
We deploy several levels of security at our pipeline construction sites, depending on their criticality and vulnerability. For critical sites, we 
secure pipe storage yards and worksites by either 24/7 security guards or advanced analytic camera systems. At sites where an increased 
threat may exist, we employ both security guards and camera systems simultaneously. For the majority of our other pipelines, contracts 
require the hiring of guards to protect the project during non-work hours. Our physical security team also monitors all pipeline projects. If 
theft, vandalism, or other threats are encountered, a combination of roving and static guards along with varying levels of camera coverage 
will be employed to secure the site. For projects that encounter hostile persons or opposition during construction, we assign security teams to 
protect workers during the day and static guards to protect equipment during non-work hours.
Security guards also protect compression stations and various other sites during construction based upon criticality and vulnerability. After 
construction is completed, we secure compression stations with barbed wire fencing, access controls, and high-resolution analytical camera 
systems. Other sites such as interconnections and metering stations incorporate fencing, cameras, or both, depending on the perceived 
threat to the locations.
22The safety of our pipeline assets is highly important, and we strive to uphold the effectiveness of our approach to pipeline safety. Using federal
regulations as a starting point, it is our goal to measure our achievements not simply by compliance, but by focusing on risk mitigation. To
achieve this goal, we use several strategies including conducting non-destructive tests (NDT) on all pipeline welds and using third-party NDT
auditors on large projects. We require all welders who work on Equitrans projects to complete welding certiﬁcations that we administer
internally. We conduct pressure tests to evaluate pipeline integrity and use third-party software to validate that there are no leaks. All of our
inspectors conducting these tests are thoroughly vetted to ensure they meet our standards. This process starts with a pre-qualiﬁcation of
certiﬁcations that inspectors possess prior to their onboarding. Once on the job, inspectors take numerous computer-based trainings (CBTs)
that we have developed to provide guidance on Equitrans-speciﬁc practices and procedures for pipeline inspections. For these CBTs, we
require inspectors to achieve a 100 percent pass rate before they are able to begin their work. Lastly, when in the ﬁeld, we regularly audit our
inspectors to ensure they uphold our standards for pipeline safety.
Approach to Spills & LeaksUnintentional Releases of Gas
Number of Releases 51
Number of Reportable Releases 2
Percentage Reportable 4%
Volume of Reportable Releases 19.9 MMCFIn the event that a pipeline spill or leak occurs, we work diligently
to quickly detect its location, take action to repair it, and
remediate any damages. Our Operations and Health, Safety,
Security, and Environmental (HSSE) teams, along with third
parties, conduct regular inspections of our pipelines to ensure
their integrity and identify any potential spills and leaks. For
identiﬁed areas of concern, we take immediate action to make
repairs and enhancements to maintain integrity of the asset and
ensure regulatory compliance. We track all spills that occur across
our pipelines and facilities to identify trends and long-term items
of concern that may require permanently engineered ﬁxes. We
properly dispose, track, and report all substances released in a spill or leak in accordance with state and federal regulations.
In 2019, Equitrans had two reportable releases of produced water at our Brown’s Creek station in Greene County, Pennsylvania, where 3.81
barrels, in total, were released. One of these releases had an offsite impact, but no natural resources were affected, and the impacted soil was
immediately remediated. No long-term effects have been noted in follow-up examinations, nor are they expected to occur in the future. We
also experienced two reportable releases of gas in 2019, which amounted to 19.9 million cubic feet, in total.
During pipeline construction, we track our contractors’ Best Management Practice (BMP) failures that result in sediment releases to water
bodies. We consider BMP failures to be incidents in which erosion and sediment control structures that are intended to prevent or reduce soil
erosion, or ﬁlter sediment laden water, fail to properly achieve these intents. This type of failure usually results in the escape of sediment into
water above the approved limits of disturbance for the project site and/or the escape of sediment into an aquatic resource. In 2019, while we
had 128 sediment releases to water, no water bodies were signiﬁcantly affected by releases from Equitrans operations as a result of BMP
failures.
Evaluating Our Approach to Spills & Leaks
We regularly evaluate our processes to limit spills, leaks, and releases from our operations for their effectiveness to learn from past
experiences and prevent future releases. In addition, and similar to our internal safety metric, we have a controllable erosion and
sedimentation metric as part of our Short-Term Incentive Program (STIP), which aligns employee interests with those of our shareholders and
the strategic objectives of our company. We track all spills, leaks, and releases at each of our stations along our pipelines, and our Operations
team reviews them quarterly and annually to determine if there are any patterns. This process involves a proactive and regimented aerial and
foot patrol program following Department of Transportation guidelines. Our program uses our Pipeline Safety Event tracker to gather the
feedback and metrics we need to take prescribed corrective actions to minimize and prevent future occurrences.
Approach to Environmental ComplianceNon-Compliance Fines and Sanctions
Total Monetary Value of Signiﬁcant Fines
(Equitrans)$2,849,101
Total Monetary Value of Signiﬁcant Fines
(Mountain Valley Pipeline)$2,415,972
Cases Brought through Dispute Resolution
Mechanisms39
Total Monetary Losses from Legal Proceedings
associated with Federal Pipeline and Storage
Regulations (Equitrans)Zero lossesAt Equitrans, we make every effort to meet or exceed all
applicable pipeline compliance regulations. Our commitment to
compliance not only makes ﬁnancial sense but also serves as a
key tenant of our corporate culture. We strive to be transparent
across our operations when interacting with local, state, and
federal authorities. We track and evaluate all emerging and
changing regulations and permit requirements that may impact
Equitrans and our operations. We also actively submit comments
based on our evaluations of proposed regulations as a company or
through the industry trade groups of which we are a member.
Our facilities are audited and inspected both internally and by a
third-party during construction and operations to verify
compliance is maintained.Evaluating Our Approach to Pipeline Safety
23Evaluating Our Approach to Environmental Compliance
To meet and exceed all applicable regulations, we work tirelessly to ensure our environmental compliance teams correctly identify regulations
and develop effective strategies to achieve compliance. We enter and track applicable regulations and operating permits in our Maximo asset
management system and our Enviance software system, through which we manage the monitoring and inspection of our pipelines to ensure
permit compliance. Our Enviance system is also utilized to calculate air emissions. For sediment releases to water bodies, we track and classify
BMP failures as either controllable or uncontrollable to determine if failures were preventable. For failures that were controllable, we work
with our construction contractors to address these incidents through in-person or virtual meetings where we develop a path to resolution.
We conduct regular audits of these contractors to ensure their performance improves.
Incidents of Non-Compliance 
Resulting in a F
ine or Penalty
0Incidents of Non-Compliance 
Resulting in a Warning
0Incidents of Non-Compliance 
with V oluntar
y Codes
0
Approach to Public Safety Awareness
The safety of the public and the local communities near our operations is of highest importance to Equitrans. Our goal is to operate our assets
safely and responsibly while ensuring the public understands our operating practices and is aware of critical pipeline safety facts.
We frequently communicate with the local communities near our operations to raise awareness of our activities, convey key safety
information, and address any questions or concerns. One way we do this is through annually mailing a safety brochure to residents and
businesses located near our pipelines to keep them informed of our operations. We also engage with local ﬁrst responders, public works
employees, elected ofﬁcials, school districts, and other pertinent community members. This engagement, which may occur in-person or
virtually, involves apprising them of our operational processes, providing pipeline-related educational resources, listening to their thoughts
and feedback, and building relationships through group meetings, personal contact, and targeted distribution of print materials. A few
examples of the topics we address include:Activities occurring along relevant pipeline routes or at pipeline
compressor station facilitiesThe types of equipment being used at a particular site
The preventative measures we take to reduce potential hazards
and ensure pipeline integrityHow to avoid right-of-way encroachments
Our engagement helps to raise awareness of the presence of pipelines in local communities and increases the understanding of the focus we
put on public safety and, more generally, the role of pipelines in transporting energy. It is our goal to convey to the public that while pipeline
accidents are possible, pipelines are a safe mode of transportation. We undertake strong measures to prevent pipeline accidents, while
working to anticipate and plan for the management of accidents should they occur. We believe that a well-informed public along pipeline
routes enhances the pipeline safety measures we employ and contributes to reducing the likelihood and potential impact of pipeline
emergencies or releases due to third-party damage and right-of-way encroachments.
One of the greatest challenges to safe pipeline operations is potential accidental damage caused by excavation, directional drilling,
construction, farming activities, or homeowner activities. To ensure the safety of the public, we urge stakeholders utilize the “Call 811 Before
You Dig” program that is available across the United States. By calling 811 before digging, everyone can play an important part in protecting
public safety by ensuring that a pipeline is not unintentionally damaged. The national program directly connects a caller to their state’s One
Call Center where they can then report their planned digging project. The One Call Center will then communicate this information to all local
underground utilities that mark the locations of their pipelines on the property where the project is taking place. In our home state of
Pennsylvania, we are directly involved in the Pennsylvania 811 Safety Day conferences as a sponsor. The annual Safety Day provides safety
education to the excavation and utility industries through hands-on demonstrations with tools and techniques, as well as discussions on new
safety theories.How to identify pipeline leaks and the appropriate response to a
leak
Equitrans’ emergency and crisis response plan
The appropriate community response for various incident
scenarios
24Evaluating Our Approach to Public Safety Awareness
We regularly evaluate the effectiveness of our approach to public safety awareness in order to verify that the local communities near our
pipelines are aware of the proximity of natural gas lines in their neighborhood and to provide general safety information regarding natural
gas pipeline operations. To do this we utilize two evaluation methods, a third-party survey of local community members and local community
group meetings hosted by third-parties.
Our telephone and postal surveys use a three-step approach to complete the evaluation process. The ﬁrst step is the set-up, in which we
design the survey with the intent to measure the scope of our public outreach and its effectiveness in conveying desired content, the clarity
of the outreach content, and the content’s effect on desired safety awareness and behaviors. Next is the execution phase of the process when
the surveys are conducted for selected local community members. During the execution phase, we target completing 400 surveys per
identiﬁed audience to ensure we obtain a statistically signiﬁcant sample. Lastly, during the reporting and analysis phase, we compile the
survey results and complete a ﬁnal report. This ﬁnal report includes results for each survey question and the three intended measures of the
survey outlined in the ﬁrst step.
Our evaluation process for local community group meetings consists of two approaches. We ﬁrst consider the people and organizations that
attended each meeting to measure the scope of our public outreach and the effectiveness of the content that we conveyed. Secondly, each
person or organization that attends a meeting receives a survey card which includes questions regarding their knowledge of pipelines, their
thoughts on the effectiveness of the meeting program, and the usefulness of the meeting program to their daily activities. Based upon the
responses to these questions, we can measure the clarity of the outreach content, and the content’s effect on desired safety awareness and
behaviors.
Leveraging the results of these evaluation methods enables us to make general changes to our public safety awareness programs, make
changes to address speciﬁc issues, or continue with the programs as they currently exist, unless a signiﬁcant decrease in effectiveness is
apparent from the evaluation methods.
25Approach to Community Engagement
As a company, our continued success directly ties to our engagement with local communities, as we clearly understand that our pipeline
operations can and do affect them. We consistently engage with community members to keep them informed of our current, planned, and
proposed operations. We also strive to inform community stakeholders of our commitment to operating with integrity, accountability, and
transparency. At Equitrans, these engagements typically involve three primary approaches: communicating impacts and addressing
community concerns; investing in communities; and managing our corporate reputation. 
Addressing Community Concerns & Public Perceptions
Public apprehension about natural gas pipelines and their related facilities is
an understandable sentiment both locally and nationally. It is important to us,
as a company, that everyone living or working near one of our pipelines is
conﬁdent in our commitment to operating in a safe and responsible manner.
To build trust in us, our Government Affairs and Land and Construction
groups frequently engage with our stakeholders. Our Government Affairs
group directs our overall approach to community engagement and their
duties include establishing and maintaining relationships with civic
organizations, elected ofﬁcials, emergency response personnel, business
owners, residents, and other local stakeholders.
In the ﬁeld, our Land and Construction group serves as our primary point of
contact for landowners along our pipeline routes, as well as with other local
community members, to report and receive assistance to resolve any
concerns both before and throughout the lifespan of the project. These group
members regularly attend and participate in public municipal meetings in
areas where we have ongoing and future projects in order to establish good
working relationships with our local communities and to reinforce clear lines
of communication for project questions. Landowners can also contact our
Owner Relations group directly by phone, fax, or email through our Owner
Relations line. These contacts typically involve payment- and tax-related
questions, along with occasional messages pertaining to operational issues.
All messages are communicated to the appropriate Equitrans personnel for
resolution. We use information collected by these groups’ engagements to
develop and reﬁne our policies and procedures, which in turn minimizes or eliminates operational issues before they become larger concerns
or disputes. When appropriate, our Engineering group also engages with the public through clear and concise communication on issues that
may draw questions or concerns. Across our geographic footprint, 100 percent of our operations involve some amount of formal or informal
local community engagement.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1, 415-1
Social
Community
Engagement
As a pipeline owner and operator, we maintain
relationships with the people and communities across
the entire lengths of our pipelines, and it is our goal
that these relationships remain strong. We invest in
the communities where we live and work.
26We constantly evaluate the impacts of our operations on local communities and establish best practices to mitigate issues and concerns to
every extent possible. A prime example of this evaluation occurs during the installation of a compressor station. Before installation begins, we
evaluate the area around the station to identify potential issues that may arise. After we install the compressor unit(s), we conduct baseline
noise studies to check for excess local noise. If these studies identify a noise issue, we proactively install sound mitigation measures where
appropriate to minimize the impact on neighboring properties.
Our use of roads during pipeline construction is another noteworthy example of our efforts to be responsible community stewards. Our
construction activities often temporarily impact the roadway conditions in the communities where we operate, and it is important that we
make every effort to minimize these impacts. When starting construction, Equitrans implements established procedures to identify the roads
we will traverse in order to assess any maintenance that may be required either before work begins or after it is ﬁnished. We communicate
this information to the local municipality, and we work with the municipality’s ofﬁcials to ensure minimal disruption to community members
during our use of the roadways.
Community Investments
At Equitrans, we are passionate about investing in the communities where we live and work. We support a wide range of organizations within
these communities through our corporate giving and sponsorship program and the Equitrans Midstream Foundation, a separate 501(c)(3)
organization.
To ensure legality and appropriateness, our Corporate Communications or Government Affairs leaders review and approve each Equitrans
corporate donation or sponsorship. These employees implement a structured review and a pre-approval process to conﬁrm that
contributions are not made to local authorities with oversight of our current or future operations, which would raise questions of impropriety.
Equitrans’ corporate local giving program supports a variety of local organizations, non-proﬁt groups, ﬁrst responders, and municipalities
seeking assistance for community projects. Other investments include the active sponsorship of county fairs, community festivals, and other
local events. Both our donations and sponsorships present opportunities for us to interact with community members, inform them of our
business operations, and most importantly enhance their quality of life. Equitrans made supporting contributions totaling $87,298 to the
following entities in 2019:Marianna Volunteer Fire Department
Mon Valley YMCA
Cecil Township Fire Department
Forward Township Volunteer Fire
Department
Peters Township Volunteer Fire
DepartmentBattelle District FairInnovation Works
Eastern Gas Compression Association
Women’s Energy Network
The Mentoring Partnership
Finleyville Volunteer Fire Department
Municipality of Union Township
WQEDThe Clemente Society
Keynotes of South Hills
American Legion Post 90 Community
Days
Governor’s One Shot
Canonsburg Old Fashioned Christmas
Energy Mineral Law Foundation
One Tree Planted
In 2019, Equitrans created an employee activity and community service committee, called E-Train On-Track. E-Train On-Track encourages
employees to explore their passions, business skills, and expertise to make meaningful contributions in the communities where we live and
work. We support the engagement of our employees in corporate-sponsored community service initiatives and social/recreational employee
activities that align with our core values of Safety, Integrity, Collaboration, Transparency, and Excellence. 
Our goals are to operate as a socially responsible company and to contribute in a positive way to the local communities in which we operate.
We support our employees in volunteer activities that enrich the lives of others, while at the same time enhancing their own experiences. E-
Train On-Track offers our employees many opportunities to plan, organize, and engage in social and recreational activities that encourage
them to grow and celebrate as a team. 
In 2019, E-Train On-Track organized multiple holiday gift and donation activities throughout our operating footprint and helped to coordinate
Equitrans’ annual United Way Campaign. These activities included two Adopt-a-Family holiday events in western Pennsylvania. At our
Southpointe ofﬁce in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, more than 100 employees participated in adopting 22 families in Washington and Allegheny
counties, Pennsylvania. At our Waynesburg, Pennsylvania ofﬁce, ten employees adopted four families and 20 local children through the
Salvation Army’s Treasures for Children program. In Ohio, eight of our employees volunteered in local Toys-for-Tots programs, collecting more
than 200 toys donated by fellow employees and contractors for 74 families and 196 children in total.
Equitrans Midstream Foundation
Established by Equitrans, the Equitrans Midstream Foundation is a legally separate entity dedicated to fostering the social and economic
prosperity of the local communities throughout our asset footprint. By developing partnerships with philanthropies and non-proﬁt
organizations, the Foundation’s efforts aim to create secure futures for local community members through a focus on community
development, education, and environmental initiatives.
Community Development
The Foundation’s community development investments focus on initiatives that enhance the fabric of communities by:
Enhancing community safety and wellbeingSupporting the enrichment of arts and culture in the community
Fostering inclusion and promoting diversity in communities
Encouraging the development of livable communities that attract and retain residential, commercial, and industrial growth
27Education
The Foundation’s education investments focus on initiatives that help
develop a sustainable energy industry workforce by:
Advancing science, technology, engineering, and arts and math (STEAM)
education, with a special emphasis on creating access for
underrepresented and underserved groupsPreparing students to compete in the workforce of the future, giving them
the tools to make positive social and economic contributionsEncouraging the pursuit of trades and vocational training 
Environment
The Foundation’s environment investments support initiatives that limit
our operational impact by:
Targeting energy education and the stewardship of air, land, and water
Supporting the preservation of natural resources and encouraging 
individuals and organizations to implement accepted conservation 
techniques to minimize adverse impacts on the environment
Encouraging environmental stewardship
In 2019, the Equitrans Midstream Foundation made $150,000 in donations primarily focused on education and community development
initiatives. A few of the initiatives we supported are listed below:
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust STEAM Residencies
Pittsburgh Symphony Learning & Community Engagement Programs
Innovation Works: Startable Greene County
WQED: Design Lives Here
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh: STEM Career Youth Mentoring
Corner Cupboard Food Bank: Kids’ Bags Program
Salvation Army: Food Insecurities Programs
Donora Historical Society: WWI Exhibit
We are incredibly proud of the positive impact that the Equitrans Midstream Foundation has had and will continue to have on the local
communities where we live and work. If you are interested in applying for funding, please visit our online application.
Managing Our Corporate Reputation
As part of our corporate culture, every Equitrans employee is encouraged to maintain and enhance our reputation by operating with integrity,
accountability, and transparency. A few examples of these efforts include:
Gathering information to help identify local concerns before they
inconvenience neighborsAdvocating for the community by afﬁrming that issues or
concerns are addressed at the appropriate level within Equitrans
and are ultimately resolvedActing as a channel of information for suggesting ways to
strengthen Equitrans’ processes and proceduresProviding opportunities for residents to learn about current or
future projects and how they may affect their communitiesBuilding relationships prior to the start of activity in new areas
Evaluating Our Community Engagement
To meet and exceed community expectations, we thoughtfully evaluate our engagement approach to determine what is working well, what
can be improved, and how to enhance our interactions with local communities. We continually consider how to best engage the public in
understanding our operations and the measures that we take to maintain public safety and mitigate environmental impacts during all
phases of our operations. Our primary means of engagement is through direct communication and relationship building with all involved
stakeholders (landowners, community members, elected ofﬁcials, and emergency responders). Through these personal engagements, we
directly learn from stakeholders about positive outcomes and receive recommendations regarding how we can better address community
matters.
28Our Owner Relations group also works to address questions and concerns regarding our operations. The group also tracks and documents all
messages that come in via our Owner Relations line through our tracking software system, and messages are closed out of the system once
resolved. This data is beneﬁcial in evaluating both the efﬁciency and efﬁcacy of our landowner communications and helps to mitigate any
future concerns.
Political Involvement & Public Policy
It is imperative that we engage policymakers on matters directly related to our operations
and the natural gas industry as a whole to remain informed of changes that may affect our
business. Our natural gas gathering and transportation expertise enables us to be an
informed resource for policymakers when considering associated policies. We stay informed
and actively involved in policy developments by regularly connecting with local, state, and
federal ofﬁcials through constructive energy policy dialogues.
Political Governance
We maintain our high standard of integrity while engaging with policymakers on matters
that impact Equitrans. We conduct our public policy activities in compliance with all local,
state, and federal laws applicable in every operational jurisdiction in which we make
political contributions. These laws include federal and state campaign ﬁnance laws
regarding political spending in support of political parties, politicians, and related
institutions. Our political engagement activity is strictly limited to the United States, the
only country in which we operate. To assure compliance internally, we developed policies to
guide our interactions with lawmakers and regulatory agencies. These governing policies
stipulate that no Equitrans employee may engage in lobbying activities on behalf of
Equitrans nor use corporate treasury funds for political purposes without explicit permission from the Government Affairs leader or General
Counsel.
Political Spending & Policy Issues
Equitrans supports fair and balanced regulations that beneﬁt both our company and all of its stakeholders. We are dedicated particularly to
working with policymakers on opportunities to promote stable investment climates for natural gas transportation and storage. Policies
preferred by Equitrans involve the governance of environmental protection, taxes, and natural gas pipelines, as well as expanding the use of
natural gas in sectors such as transportation, manufacturing, and electricity generation. The Equitrans Political Action Committee (PAC) spent
$74,500 on local, state, and federal candidates in our service territory in 2019. As 2019 was an off-cycle election year in most of our jurisdictional
states, the PAC focused giving primarily in local judicial elections.
Since the initial development of the Marcellus and Utica Shales, the states in our operational footprint have strived to promote a stable
investment environment. Equitrans works closely with federal, state, and local policymakers to develop a regulatory framework that promotes
a stable business environment for our operations and the economy of the regions where we operate. In recent years, we have noted increased
efforts by third parties to oppose, by legislative means, the natural gas industry. While the states in which we operate have different political
landscapes, we consistently overcome what we view as onerous legislative proposals that would have negative economic consequences.
Evaluating Our Political Involvement
Policy changes can have a signiﬁcant impact on our operations and business as a whole. Therefore, it is vital that we continuously evaluate
our approach to political involvement to maintain its effectiveness. The Equitrans PAC Board reviews and approves all PAC disbursements,
taking into account a focus on our operating regions, the advancement of our industry and its related initiatives, including policies governing
environmental protection, taxes, and natural gas transportation. The PAC Board meets quarterly to evaluate requests and review past
expenditures.
29Approach to Diversity & Inclusion
Each Equitrans employee is essential to our continued success and we seek to provide every employee with the foundation and opportunities
they need to achieve their goals. This objective begins with our commitment to diversity and inclusion. Equitrans is successful because we
value the diversity of backgrounds and views of our employees. Being open to differences that exist within our company has propelled us to
where we are today. 
As a major component of our business success, diversity and inclusion must continue to be central to our corporate culture. Whether during
our hiring process, allocating work responsibilities, or during promotion considerations, we are committed to making personnel decisions
exclusively on the basis of a person’s qualiﬁcations, abilities, and potential. Our goal is to create a diverse company where all employees feel
safe, included, and able to engage in our success every day. We make a concerted effort to attract, develop, and advance employees from
diverse backgrounds including minorities, women, veterans, LGBTQ candidates, and persons with physical or mental disabilities. We are in
the process of developing a formalized inclusion program to guide our recruitment process, employee and leadership education, internal
employee engagement, facility accessibility, and inclusion-related policies.
In addition, Equitrans is an equal opportunity employer that makes a good faith effort to comply with all employment equal opportunity laws.
We also are committed to ensuring that all of our employees feel included at Equitrans, which entails reviewing our policies from an inclusion
perspective, implementing manager and employee training initiatives, and inspecting our primary ofﬁce locations for accessibility. We
transparently report our employee demographic information through this report.103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 405-1
Social
Diversity &
Inclusion
At Equitrans, we aspire to cultivate a workplace of
respect, trust, and teamwork. Equitrans is successful
because we value the diversity of backgrounds and
views of our employees. Diversity and inclusion must
continue to be central to our corporate culture. 
30Supplier Diversity
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion extends beyond our internal operations. As a company, we appreciate the value that supplier
diversity brings to both Equitrans and our external supply chain contributors. Minority-owned Business Enterprises (MBE), Veteran-Owned
Business (VOB), and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (WBE) are all partners in our success. We commit to seeking, developing, and
maintaining a diverse supplier base.
Evaluating Our Approach to Diversity & Inclusion
Equitrans is at our best when each employee maintains equal footing and experiences every opportunity to succeed. As part of our quarterly
mailings to our Board members, we include a Human Resources Scorecard that tracks our diversity and inclusion statistics and our diversity
initiatives related to hiring. The diversity of our workforce is not reﬂective of our culture or core values and for several months we have been
working to develop and formalize a company-wide inclusion program, which we ofﬁcially launched in July 2020. Our new inclusion program
includes tracking metrics, education for both employees and managers on diversity and inclusion topics, and a continued pledge to target
diverse talent during recruitment efforts and through internal promotional opportunities. We also believe that our enhanced remote work
policy will help to expand our talent pool by reaching audiences beyond our existing operating region. Through this program and our existing
diversity and inclusion efforts, we are conﬁdent that Equitrans will continue to be a desirable place for all employees to work.
Employees by Gender
Male 78%
Female 22%801
TOTALEmployee Demographics
White 94.88%
Black or African American 1.87%
Hispanic or Latino 1.50%
Asian 1.00%
Two or More Races 0.50%
American Indian or Alaska Native 0.25%801
TOTALEmployees by Age Group
<30 Years Old 11%
30–50 Years Old 63%
>50 Years Old 26%801
TOTAL
Managers by Gender
Male 79%
Female 21%164
TOTALManager Demographics
White 96.34%
Black or African American 0.61%
Hispanic or Latino 1.83%
Asian 0.61%
Two or More Races 0.61%
American Indian or Alaska Native 0.00%164
TOTALManagers by Age Group
<30 Years Old 2%
30–50 Years Old 69%
>50 Years Old 29%164
TOTAL
31Approach to Economic Impact
At Equitrans, we pursue a business strategy focused on smart investments with high growth potential that can bring value to all of our
stakeholders and couple that with disciplined cost control. To understand the economic impacts of executing on our business strategy, we
conduct an annual analysis of our direct and indirect economic impacts, commissioning an independent third party to analyze our year-end
data.
National Economy
In 2019, we contributed $2.66 billion in value-added contributions to the United States Gross Domestic Product (GDP), excluding activities
related to the Mountain Valley Pipeline. For our business, 54.7 percent of this contribution is a result of our operational activities in our three
primary operating states of Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia, with another 4.3 percent coming from operations elsewhere in the United
States. The remaining 41.1 percent of our contribution is associated with our business with suppliers that provide the products and services we
utilize in our operations.
Our direct business activities contributed $470 million to the GDP, while our indirect impact as a result of our business with our suppliers
contributed $532 million to the GDP. Lastly, our total induced economic impact, or the personal spending of our employees, contractors, and
suppliers, contributed $1,656 million to the GDP.
GDP Contributions by State1,200
1,100
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Pennsylvania Ohio West Virginia Rest of the U.S.7677677677677677677677677671,0041,0041,0041,0041,0041,0041,0041,0041,004
264264264264264264264264264335335335335335335335335335
1351351351351351351351351351161161161161161161161161167517517517517517517517517511,0931,0931,0931,0931,0931,0931,0931,0931,093103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 203-2
2018 2019
Social
Economic Impact
Equitrans creates value for our shareholders, as well as
the communities in which we operate. We are proud
of the beneﬁcial economic impact we have on these
communities through factors such as job creation and
tax revenue generation.
32Labor Impacts
Our business activities supported 33,100 ancillary jobs in 2019, excluding any ancillary jobs related to the MVP project, in addition to our own
801 employees as of year-end 2019. These ancillary jobs include people who contribute to the successful operation of construction projects as
well as our gathering, transmission and storage, and water services as contractors and suppliers.
Equitrans Economic Activities 2018 2019
Employees 927* 801
Employee compensation (millions) $123 $149
Capital expenditures (millions) $885 $941
Rights-of-way payments (millions)†$65 $47
Dividends, stock repurchases, and distributions (millions) $737 $879
Equitrans Economic Contributions 2018 2019
Ancillary jobs supported 22,000 33,100
GDP contribution (billions) $2.03 $2.88
Ancillary labor income (billions) $1.26 $2.06
Average annual compensation per ancillary job supported $57,200 $62,000
State and local tax revenues supported (millions) $227 $312
Employment Contributions 2018 2019
Direct employees 927* 801
Direct contractors 6,191 10,900
Induced employment 12,113 16,700
Supplier employment 3,715 4,600
*Equitrans had 770 total employees at the end of 2018; however, throughout the whole of 2018, ETRN had a total of 927 employees, which included terminated employees;
and/or employees who worked for the midstream business unit but were transferred to the upstream business unit during the year; and/or paid interns. The IMPLAN
model deﬁnes employment as including full- and part-time employees at equal weights; therefore, the economic analysis reﬂects direct employment of 927 and results
include the compensation paid to 927 employees.
†Includes 45.7% of rights-of-way payments related to MVP, which is equivalent to EQM’s ownership interest in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC.GDP Contributions by IMPLAN Category2,000
1,800
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Direct Impact Indirect Impact Induced Impact
2018 2019$515$515$515$515$515$515$515$515$515$470$470$470$470$470$470$470$470$470$404$404$404$404$404$404$404$404$404$532$532$532$532$532$532$532$532$532$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,107$1,656$1,656$1,656$1,656$1,656$1,656$1,656$1,656$1,656
33State & Local Taxes Supported
Our business generated millions in state and local tax revenues in 2019, excluding taxes related to the MVP project. These generated revenues
support state and local governments and public resource enhancing operations, such as road construction and maintenance, and school
funding. The table below represents the state and local tax revenues generated by Equitrans in 2019.
Category (millions) Pennsylvania OhioWest
VirginiaOther
StatesRest of
U.S.U.S.
Property Taxes $42.3 $12.7 $16.6 $4.0 $43.0 $118.6
Income Taxes $24.0 $5.8 $1.8 $0.9 $11.0 $43.5
Sales Taxes $44.3 $14.6 $5.8 $3.7 $42.8 $111.2
Other Personal
Taxes$4.0 $1.2 $0.3 $0.3 $5.1 $11
Taxes on Production
& Imports$7.6 $1.2 $2.3 $0.4 $8.1 $19.6
Other $0.6 $1.4 $0.2 $0.2 $5.8 $8.2
Total $127.7 $37.0 $27.1 $9.6 $115.8 $312.1
Evaluating Our Approach to Economic Impact
At Equitrans, we closely track our economic impact to improve our understanding of the beneﬁt we bring to our stakeholders and our
communities. We seek ways to expand these beneﬁts and better communicate them to both our shareholders and local communities, as
well as other interested stakeholders. The primary way we accomplish this objective is through the production and review of our annual
economic impact analysis. The analysis illustrates the economic beneﬁts of our operations and investments for both Equitrans and the
broader local, state, and national economies. Reviewing and acting on the analysis enables us to increase and broaden our impact.
34Approach to Business Ethics
Our collective integrity signiﬁes our reliability as a business partner and trusted neighbor who honors our commitments. Our commitment
does not waiver, regardless of the complexity or competiveness of the business environment we face. We always will operate with integrity to
protect our reputation, business, and stakeholders.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) is the foundation for our culture of ethics and integrity. Developed during Equitrans’
corporate establishment in 2018, the Code lays out in detail our approach to everything we do, covering our values, principles, standards, and
norms of behavior through six main sections:
We are all responsible for doing the right
thingWorking togetherNever compromise our integrity
We speak with one voiceProtecting our information and assets
Dealing fairly and honestly with others
The Code guides our actions—how we act and react in different situations—and provides reference points and resources for additional
questions or concerns on issues that are not explicitly covered in it.
In 2019, the Code and related policies were modiﬁed to better reﬂect Equitrans’ newly established values and practices. This process involved
cross-functional collaboration between our Compliance, Legal, Human Resources, Information Technology, and Senior Management teams to
ensure the Code reﬂects all aspects and requirements of our business. We will continue to evaluate the Code to determine whether additional
modiﬁcations are necessary as Equitrans’ operations grow and evolve.
Equitrans expects all of our employees and those with whom we do business to follow our Code and uphold our culture of ethics and
integrity. Each new Equitrans employee is required to complete a training on the Code soon after starting with us and we deliver a
companywide training for all employees biennially. In 2019, 100 percent of employees completed the biennial training, which will next occur in
2021. In addition to the training, all employees must read the Code annually and sign an acknowledgement conﬁrming their understanding.
The Code is available in different languages upon request.
If an employee has a question or concern related to any subject covered within the Code, they are encouraged to discuss it with their
supervisor or a member of our internal Compliance Network. The Compliance Network is a group of individuals from our Health, Safety,
Security, and Environmental (HSSE), Legal, and Human Resources (HR) teams responsible for facilitating compliance with laws, regulations,
and the Code. The Compliance Network serves as a resource to answer any questions employees may have and as a place to report alleged
misconduct. The Equitrans Compliance Hotline at (844) 513-8109, which is a part of the Compliance Network, is another avenue through
which employees and external stakeholders can report alleged misconduct. Available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, the toll-free
Compliance Hotline is staffed by an independent third party experienced in handling ethics issues that works with callers to document
concerns for review. All calls made to the Compliance Hotline can be completely anonymous, if a caller so chooses, and are not recorded.
Information provided in a call is quickly relayed to Equitrans and our internal auditor for investigation and resolution, if possible. Employees
can also report alleged misconduct through our third-party operated online reporting portal. Both the Compliance Hotline and the online
portal can also be used to convey positive suggestions or experiences related to the Code.
Equitrans’ Deputy General Counsel, Litigation, Risk and Compliance has direct oversight of the Equitrans Compliance Program. The Deputy
General Counsel reports to and coordinates with the Senior Vice President and General Counsel on matters involving compliance with the
Code. At the Board level, the Board’s Audit Committee  assists the Board in overseeing compliance by Equitrans with legal and regulatory
requirements, including the Code.102-16, 102-17
Go v er nan c e
Business Ethics 
& Integrity
At Equitrans, we take pride in operating our business
with integrity. For us, integrity means always
conducting business in a fair, honest, and responsible
way. We expect each of our employees and contractors
to be someone others can trust and respect. 
35Approach to Corporate Governance
Our Board of Directors is committed to partnering with Equitrans’ management team to drive sustainable performance for Equitrans’
stakeholders. Presently, the Board is comprised of nine directors, eight of whom are independent, and has four standing committees which
assist the Board in its oversight activities for certain delegated matters. Each director must annually stand for election by Equitrans’
shareholders.
Board Committees
The Board has four standing committees: Audit; Corporate Governance; Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental; and Management
Development and Compensation. Our committees report on their activities to the Board on a routine basis and also make recommendations
regarding matters to be approved by the Board. The responsibilities of the committees are included in written charters, which are reviewed at
least annually by the committees and the Board. For more information regarding our Board and its committees, please see our 2020 Proxy
Statement ﬁled with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 3, 2020, as well as each committee’s charter available on our
website.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s purpose is to assist the Board by overseeing:
Equitrans’ accounting and ﬁnancial reporting process and related
disclosure mattersThe audits of Equitrans’ ﬁnancial statements
The integrity of Equitrans’ ﬁnancial statementsThe qualiﬁcations, independence, and performance of Equitrans’
registered public accountantsThe qualiﬁcations and performance of Equitrans’ internal audit
functionEquitrans’ compliance with legal and regulatory requirements,
including its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Corporate Governance Committee
It is the responsibility of the Corporate Governance Committee to:
Establish and recommend to the Board the requisite skills and
characteristics to be found in individuals qualiﬁed to serve as
members of the BoardIdentify individuals qualiﬁed to become Board members
consistent with criteria approved by the BoardRecommend to the Board the director nominees for each annual
meeting of shareholdersReview and recommend to the Board any updates to Equitrans’
corporate governance guidelinesRecommend committee membership, including a Chair, for each
committeeRecommend an appropriate compensation structure for
Equitrans’ directors, including administration of stock-based plans
for the directorsReview plans for management succession
Recommend director independence determinations to the Board
Review related person transactions under Equitrans’ related
person transaction approval policy102-18, 102-19, 102-24, 102-26, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 102-33, 102-36
Governance
Corporate
Governance
As the highest governance body at Equitrans, our
Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing
Equitrans’ business and affairs. The strength of our
Board is its diversity of backgrounds and skills.
36Health, Safety, Security & Environmental Committee
The Health, Safety, Security and Environmental Committee:
Provides input and direction to management and the Board
about Equitrans’ approach to health, safety, security (including
cybersecurity), and environmental policies, programs and
initiatives and reviews Equitrans’ activities in those areasProvides input and direction to management and the Board
regarding Equitrans’ approach to developing, and ultimately
implementing, a centralized environmental, social responsibility,
and governance (ESG) process, and provides oversight of
Equitrans’ ESG mattersReviews the overall adequacy of, and provides oversight with
respect to, HSSE policies, programs, procedures, and initiatives of
Equitrans, including, without limitation, Equitrans’ emergency
response preparednessReviews Equitrans’ disclosures regarding the Committee's role in
the oversight of Equitrans’ HSSE-related risk managementEnsures that appropriate HSSE goals are in place and evaluates
Equitrans’ progress toward those goals
Management Development & Compensation Committee
It is the responsibility of the Management Development and Compensation Committee to:
Assist the Board in the discharge of its ﬁduciary responsibilities
relating to agreements with, and the fair and competitive
compensation of, Equitrans’ Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO) and
other executive ofﬁcersDesign, administer, and make awards (or, as applicable, make
recommendations to the Board to make awards) under Equitrans’
incentive compensation and equity-based plansProvide oversight for and, as required, administer Equitrans’
beneﬁt plans
Oversee Equitrans’ management development program for
Equitrans’ executive ofﬁcers and other key members of
managementPrepare a report for inclusion in Equitrans’ proxy statement for the
annual meeting of shareholders
Board Performance Assessment
The Board and its committees conduct self-assessments with respect to their performance in meeting their oversight obligations. Equitrans’
Corporate Governance Guidelines mandate that the Board, as well as its committees, undertake such assessments annually. As part of the
review process, comments from all directors are solicited. The performance assessment of the Board and each committee are discussed with
the full Board on an annual basis.
The Corporate Governance committee leads an annual performance assessment for the Board, as speciﬁed under Equitrans’ Corporate
Governance Guidelines. Each of the four Board committees also must conduct their own annual performance assessment. During these
assessments each director has the opportunity to provide their own feedback.
The Board discusses the results of these performance assessments in full upon completion. These results and the actions taken to address
them are not publicly disclosed. Nevertheless, each director appreciates the process and commits to determining ways in which overall Board
performance can be improved based upon such results.
Board Composition & Diversity
The strength of Equitrans’ Board is its diversity of backgrounds and skills. The Corporate Governance committee purposely seeks director
candidates from diverse educational and professional backgrounds, who collectively can provide meaningful counsel to our management.
In 2020, we expanded our Board to nine directors from seven previously. All of Equitrans’ directors are experienced in relevant sectors,
including energy, regulatory, utility, and/or government, as well as have experience in relevant disciplines including ﬁnance, accounting,
and/or audit and control. Further, all of our directors have prior board experience. Our directors’ other applicable experiences are summarized
below and in our 2020 Proxy Statement.
Board Composition & Diversity 2019 2020
Board Size 7 9
Independent Directors 5 8
Male Directors 5 5
Female Directors 2 4
Current or Former Presidents/CEOs 5 7
372019 Board Members by Gender
Male 5
Female 27
TOTAL2020 Board Members by Gender
Male 5
Female 49
TOTAL
20
19 Independent vs. Non-Independent Directors
Independent 5
Non-Independent 27
TOTAL2020 Independent vs. Non-Independent Directors
Independent 8
Non-Independent 19
TOTAL
Continuing Director Education
So as to augment directors’ existing knowledge and promote Board effectiveness, Equitrans’ management, with assistance from outside 
experts as necessary, routinely provides directors with educational information and trainings relevant to Equitrans’ business and pertinent 
economic, environmental, social, and governance topics. We encourage directors to participate in external educational programs in order to 
further develop topical knowledge. If a director chooses to participate in a relevant program, Equitrans will fund or reimburse the program 
cost.
Risk Management & Sustainability
In addition to general oversight of Equitrans’ business, the Board and its committees perform speciﬁc governance functions, including, in the 
case of the full Board, reviewing the major risks facing Equitrans and delegating oversight of certain major risks to applicable Board 
committees (as discussed below), as well as reviewing options for mitigating such major risks.
Oversight of certain matters are delegated to Board committees. In particular, the Audit Committee is responsible for discussing Equitrans’ 
process for assessing major risk exposures and the policies management has implemented to monitor and control such exposures, including 
Equitrans’ ﬁnancial risk exposures, including ﬁnancial statement risk and such other risk exposures as may be delegated by the Board to the 
Audit Committee for oversight, and Equitrans’ risk management policies.
The Management Development and Compensation Committee oversees the performance of an annual risk assessment of Equitrans’ 
compensation policies and practices.
The Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental Committee is responsible for providing input and direction to management and the Board 
about Equitrans’ approach to ESG issues and HSSE policies, programs, and initiatives, and reviews Equitrans’ activities and risks in those areas.
Signiﬁcant risks facing Equitrans are described in the Risk Factor sections of Equitrans’ ﬁlings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including beginning on pg. 26 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019, as supplemented 
by those risk factors beginning on p. 56 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the ﬁscal quarter ended March 31, 2020 (and as may be 
further updated by subsequently ﬁled Form 10-Qs).
38The Board of Directors welcomes, and considers, input and feedback from Equitrans’ stakeholders as part of its commitment to acting with
integrity, accountability, and transparency. Stakeholders can direct their communications to Equitrans’ Lead Independent Director, Robert F.
Vagt, and they may be made anonymously or conﬁdentially.
Interested parties may communicate directly with the Lead Independent Director (and with independent directors, individually or as a group,
through the Lead Independent Director) by sending an email to ETRNPresidingDirector@equitransmidstream.com. They may also write to
the Lead Independent Director, the entire Board, any Board committee, or any individual director by addressing such communication to the
applicable director or directors, care of the Corporate Secretary, at Equitrans Midstream Corporation, 2200 Energy Drive, Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania 15317. The Corporate Secretary will open the communication and promptly deliver it to the Lead Independent Director or the
named director, unless the communication is junk mail or a mass mailing. 
Other Board communication methods include:
Equitrans’ Corporate SecretaryEquitrans’ Investor Relations contactEquitrans’ management team
Equitrans’ websiteThe Equitrans Compliance Hotline
Traditional written correspondence
Investor Relations
Equitrans actively engages with our shareholders. Our Investor Relations function drives this engagement by organizing meetings with
investors and potential investors to discuss Equitrans’ operations, strategy, and other relevant topics. Equitrans works to proactively address
speciﬁc stakeholder inquiries in a timely manner through the scheduling of telephone calls and/or meetings.
Director & Executive Compensation
Equitrans’ non-employee director compensation and related processes are publicly disclosed in Equitrans 2020 Proxy Statement (see
discussion beginning on pg. 19). Equitrans’ non-employee directors are compensated through a combination of cash and equity-based
compensation. Annually, the Corporate Governance Committee reviews and the Board approves the compensation.
In discharging the Board’s responsibilities relating to compensation of Equitrans’ executive ofﬁcers, the Management Development and
Compensation Committee recommends, and the Board approves, the target total direct compensation for named executive ofﬁcers by
establishing base salaries and setting short-term (bonus) and long-term incentive targets. When appropriate, the Management Development
and Compensation Committee also provides certain limited perquisites and other beneﬁts to executive ofﬁcers and other key employees.
As 2019 was our ﬁrst full year as a publicly traded company, the Management Development and Compensation Committee adopted a
compensation philosophy and developed new programs and practices which differed materially from the compensation structure in place
prior to our separation in 2018 from our former parent corporation. Our new compensation program: (i) seeks to align total direct
compensation for our named executive ofﬁcers (NEOs) using market comparables and other relevant factors; (ii) is weighted towards variable
pay which requires Equitrans to achieve well-deﬁned performance metrics in order for NEOs to realize annual and certain performance-based
long-term incentives; (iii) limits executive perquisites and provides retirement and other beneﬁt programs that are the same for all salaried
employees; and (iv) delivers transparency and fairness to shareholders, employees, and other stakeholders while encouraging sound business
strategy and execution that leads to long-term shareholder value.
The majority of our NEO compensation is performance-based and is issued in the form of both annual and long-term incentives. Individuals
in a position to inﬂuence the growth of shareholder wealth have larger portions of their total compensation delivered in the form of equity-
based long-term incentives. The Management Development and Compensation Committee approves annual and long-term incentive
programs on a yearly basis, with recommendations from management and information from an independent compensation consultant.
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Equitrans held on May 20, 2020, Equitrans’ shareholders considered a proposal to approve, on an
advisory basis, the compensation of Equitrans’ named executive ofﬁcers for 2019, with more than 97 percent of votes cast in favor of such
proposal.
Details on the compensation of our named executive ofﬁcers are publicly available on pages 24–49 of our 2020 Proxy Statement.
Conﬂicts of Interest & Related Person Transactions
Equitrans takes pride in operating its business with integrity. Eight of our nine directors are independent, and the Board has adopted various
policies intended to align the conduct of Equitrans’ employees with the interests of Equitrans’ stakeholders.
Equitrans’ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics lays out our procedures to avoid potential conﬂicts of interest. We also have a standalone
internal Conﬂicts of Interest Policy, as well as certain other relevant internal policies relating to employment of relatives, off-duty conduct,
workplace relationships, and gifts and entertainment. Equitrans discloses conﬂicts of interest to stakeholders as required by law.
In addition to addressing potential conﬂicts of interest, Equitrans also evaluates potential related person transactions. Related person
transactions (which may include transactions with directors or executive ofﬁcers of Equitrans) are subject to management review and
generally must be approved by our Board’s Corporate Governance Committee in accordance with our internal Related Person Transaction
Approval Policy.Communicating with the Board
39Highlight Stories
Equitrans Opposes Federal
Rollback of Methane
Regulations
In September 2019, Equitrans publicly announced its support for the continuation of
natural gas industry efforts to reduce methane emissions in light of a proposed
rollback of regulations by the EPA. The rollback would affect 40 CFR Part 60 Subparts
OOOO and OOOOa by removing methane sources in transmission and storage
segments from regulation. Equitrans recognizes the great strides the natural gas
industry has made in reducing methane emissions recently and as Diana Charletta,
president and chief operating ofﬁcer of Equitrans, stated “We believe methane
controls and reductions should continue to evolve, rather than take steps backward.”
We acknowledge that simply achieving regulatory compliance on methane emissions
is not enough in order to address the global impacts of climate change. However, by
proactively implementing best practices for methane emissions and reducing our
overall carbon footprint, we can make a difference in the sustainability of our
environment, communities, and business.  
Southpointe Office Safety
Committee
Recently, the Ofﬁce Safety Committee at our Southpointe ofﬁce in Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania worked to create a safer ofﬁce environment and ensure Zero Is Possible.
Utilizing input from employees, the team introduced several ofﬁce safety
enhancements focused on two key areas: Emergency Awareness and Slips, Trips, and
Falls. To raise emergency awareness throughout the ofﬁce, the team implemented
active shooter trainings, a ﬂoor warden program, and CPR and ﬁrst aid certiﬁcations,
while also organizing ﬁre drills. The team took steps to reduce slip, trip, and fall risks by
installing ice warning indicators and safety mats at entrance points, placing umbrella
bags at doors, and installing shadings on ofﬁce and conference room windows. In
addition to these safety measures, the team set up safety suggestion boxes on each
Southpointe ofﬁce ﬂoor where employees can submit safety ideas. We are working to
expand these ofﬁce safety committees to our ﬁeld ofﬁces and have already met with
employees in our Waynesburg, Pennsylvania and Clarksburg, West Virginia locations to
discuss the development of their own Ofﬁce Safety Committee.
Field Safety Technician
Program
No one knows Equitrans’ assets and procedures better than our employees that work
in the ﬁeld every day. To leverage their knowledge, we recently developed a voluntary
program called the Field Safety Technician Group or FST Group. The FST Group is
composed of ﬁeld employees, known as Field Safety Technicians (FSTs), who act as
liaisons between ﬁeld employees and management to coordinate equipment
upgrades, enhance safety, and bolster our safety culture. With the FST Group, our aim
is to create a work environment where employees feel comfortable making safety
suggestions, and requesting equipment upgrades and additional trainings. Our FSTs
interview ﬁeld employees on a quarterly basis, asking what can be done to improve
safety at their sites and what trainings the employees feel would be beneﬁcial. We also
hold quarterly FST Group meetings where all FSTs come prepared to report on the
information Sthey have gathered throughout the quarter. Our teams develop action
items based upon the FST interviews with the goal to complete the items prior to the
next quarterly meeting. When possible, we scale these items across the company.
One great example of this process occurred at our MOJO Compressor Station. During a
quarterly FST interview, an employee suggested to an FST that lighting should be
added to the site. The site at that time had no active lighting and the employee had to
occasionally use his vehicle’s head lights to illuminate the area. At the following
quarterly FST meeting, the FST Group agreed to purchase solar-powered lights for the
compressor station, which were subsequently installed.
40Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI Indicator Description Location
Organizational Proﬁle
102-1 Name of the organization Equitrans Midstream Corporation
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company Proﬁle
102-3 Location of headquarters Canonsburg, Pennsylvania
102-4 Location of operations Company Proﬁle
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 10-K, pg. 8
102-6 Markets served Company Proﬁle
102-7 Scale of the organization Company Proﬁle
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Company Proﬁle
102-9 Supply chain Company Proﬁle
102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and supply chain Company Proﬁle
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Although Equitrans does not formally follow the
precautionary principle, we assess risks across our
operations.
102-12 External initiatives Company Proﬁle
102-13 Memberships of associations Company Proﬁle
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker A Message for Our Stakeholders
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Materiality
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Business Ethics & Integrity
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business Ethics & Integrity
Governance Structure
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance
102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Corporate Governance
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The Equitrans Board of Directors reviewed this
report, ensured coverage of all material topics, and
approved its publication.
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance
41Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Company Proﬁle
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practices
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 190
102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic Boundaries Materiality
102-47 List of material topics Materiality
102-48 Restatements of information None
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019
102-51 Date of most recent report 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report info@equitransmidstream.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with
the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index
102-56 Policy/practice for external assurance The company is not seeking external assurance for
this year’s report.
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Location or Direct Answer
Economic
Economic Performance
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Economic Impact
103-2 The management approach and its components Economic Impact
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Economic Impact
GRI 201: Economic
Performance 2016201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Impact
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Economic Impact
103-2 The management approach and its components Economic Impact
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Economic Impact
GRI 203: Indirect
Economic Impacts
2016203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Economic Impact
Environmental
Energy
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Energy
103-2 The management approach and its components Energy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy
42Biodiversity
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Resources
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Resources
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Resources
GRI 304: Biodiversity
2016304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent
to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value
outside protected areasEnvironmental Resources
304-2 Signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products and services on
biodiversityEnvironmental Resources
Emissions
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Air Emissions & Climate Change
103-2 The management approach and its components Air Emissions & Climate Change ; Equitrans does not
use offsets to manage our emissions impact.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Air Emissions & Climate Change
GRI 305: Emissions
2016305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Air Emissions & Climate Change
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Air Emissions & Climate Change
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Air Emissions & Climate Change
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Air Emissions & Climate Change
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Air Emissions & Climate Change
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Air Emissions & Climate Change
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other
signiﬁcant air emissionsAir Emissions & Climate Change
Efﬂuents & Waste
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
103-2 The management approach and its components Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
GRI 306: Efﬂuents &
Waste 2016306-3 Signiﬁcant spills Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
Environmental Compliance
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
103-2 The management approach and its components Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
GRI 307:
Environmental
Compliance 2016307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and
regulationsPipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
Social
Occupational Health & Safety
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Occupational Health & Safety
103-2 The management approach and its components Occupational Health & Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Occupational Health & Safety
GRI 403:
Occupational Health
& Safety 2018403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Occupational Health & Safety
403-2 Hazard identiﬁcation, risk assessment and incident
investigationOccupational Health & Safety
403-3 Occupational health services Occupational Health & Safety
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication
on occupational health and safetyOccupational Health & Safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Occupational Health & Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Occupational Health & Safety
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and
safety impacts directly linked by business relationshipsOccupational Health & Safety
43403-9 Work-related injuries Occupational Health & Safety
403-10 Work-related ill health Occupational Health & Safety
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Diversity & Inclusion
103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity & Inclusion
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity & Inclusion
GRI 405: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity
2016405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity & Inclusion
Local Communities
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community Engagement
103-2 The management approach and its components Community Engagement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community Engagement
GRI 413: Local
Communities 2016413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impacts
assessments, and development programsCommunity Engagement
Public Policy
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community Engagement
103-2 The management approach and its components Community Engagement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community Engagement
GRI 415: Public Policy
2016415-1 Political contributions Community Engagement
Customer Health & Safety
GRI 103: Management
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
103-2 The management approach and its components Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
GRI 416: Customer
Health & Safety 2016416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and
safety impacts of products and servicesPipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
44Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Index
Topic Accounting or Activity Metric Code Location or Direct Response
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage
methane, percentage covered under emissions-
limiting regulations EM-MD-110a.1 Air Emissions & Climate Change
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or
plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of performance
against those targets EM-MD-110a.2 Air Emissions & Climate Change
Air Quality
 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx
(excluding N2O), (2) SOx, (3) volatile organic
compounds (VOCs), and (4) particulate matter
(PM10) EM-MD-120a.1 Air Emissions & Climate Change
Ecological Impacts Description of environmental management policies
and practices for active operations EM-MD-160a.1 Environmental Resources
Percentage of land owned, leased, and/or operated
within areas of protected conservation status or
endangered species habitat EM-MD-160a.2 Equitrans’ primary operations are
located across the Appalachian
Basin and due to this region's
native habitat, all operating areas
are within range of endangered
bat species. Equitrans
implements all required
guidelines for protecting these
conservation areas, as well as
other endangered species
habitats.
Terrestrial acreage disturbed, percentage of
impacted area restored EM-MD-160a.3 Environmental Resources
Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills, volume in Arctic, volume in Unusually Sensitive
Areas (USAs), and volume recovered EM-MD-160a.4 Equitrans had one leak in an
unusually sensitive area in 2019.
The volume of this leak was not
quantiﬁed. The remaining
metrics are not applicable to
Equitrans because Equitrans does
not operate in the Arctic.
Competitive Behavior Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal
proceedings associated with federal pipeline and
storage regulations EM-MD-520a.1 Zero losses
Operational Safety, Emergency
Preparedness & Response
  Number of reportable pipeline incidents, percentage
signiﬁcant EM-MD-540a.1 Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
Percentage of (1) natural gas and (2) hazardous liquid
pipelines inspected EM-MD-540a.2 Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
Number of (1) accident releases and (2) nonaccident
releases (NARs) from rail transportation EM-MD-540a.3 Equitrans does not operate nor
contract rail transportation.
Discussion of management systems used to
integrate a culture of safety and emergency
preparedness throughout the value chain and
throughout project lifecycles EM-MD-540a.4 Pipeline Safety, Spills, & Leaks
Activity Metric
  Total metric ton-kilometers of: (1) natural gas, (2)
crude oil, and (3) reﬁned petroleum products
transported, by mode of transport EM-MD-000.A Company Proﬁle
45