1
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTwww.erm.com/report19FROM THE WHAT  TO THE HOW  
Operationalizing sustainability
2
Contents
INTRODUCTION
Group Chief Executive Message
Who we are
Our report at a glance
Performance results
Sustainability at ERM
Photo Credits
 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS
Climate change and energy transition
Tech-enabled innovation
Circular economy  
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS
Governance
Occupational health and safety  
Our people
Climate change
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
Innovating with clients and other organizations
Contributing to society and local communities
Contributing to the SDGs
REPORTING APPROACH
Defining report content
Stakeholder engagement
Materiality
Data background
Assurance
INDEXES2
18
58
86
121
130
3
6
11
12
14
17
20
32
42
60
67
75
81
88
93
107
122
123
125
127
129
View online
VIEW ERM’S FULL SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT AT WWW.ERM.COM/REPORT193
Group Chief 
Executive Message
PACE AND SCALE
As I have engaged with business leaders, leading thinkers, our 
employees and the wider community around the world this year,  
I am struck by the increasing sense of urgency about the sustainability 
challenges we are facing and the recognition that we have many  
of the solutions to these challenges within reach. 
Despite this sense of urgency, even anxiety, we are simply not  
moving fast or far enough – what we need is pace and scale.
To deliver the right scale of change at the right pace, we must focus 
less on “what” we need to do – we know this – and focus more on 
“how” we can deliver the change our planet and society require. 
THE BUSINESS CONTEXT  
Many global companies face a dual context whereby on the one 
hand they contribute to the sustainability challenges facing this world, 
and on the other hand are being materially impacted by these same 
challenges. This presents both risks and opportunities for business 
as they seek to understand the challenges and develop responses. At 
ERM, our role is to help clients navigate these challenges at a strategic 
and operational level.
INTRODUCTIONCEO MESSAGE4
Operationalizing sustainability also requires different parts of the 
business to come together and work in new ways. Increasingly 
this includes representatives from strategy, risk, procurement, 
innovation, business development and other functions. We often  
find ourselves as facilitators, translators and change managers  
in these programs – drawing on our practical experience across  
many sectors, geographies and subject matter. This provides us 
with unique insights into “how” business is driving to achieve to  
pace and scale – as they realize the business imperative to do so.
 DELIVERING ON OUR AMBITION  
ERM is the business of sustainability – therefore we are focused on 
operationalizing sustainability in our own business performance.  
For example, we have set our own targets to reflect our public 
commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative and have a 
strong program in place to contribute to the Sustainable Development 
Goals. We have strengthened our internal Sustainability Network 
over the past year and developed online platforms to set targets and 
drive performance at a business unit level while at the same time 
appointing a SLT (Senior Leadership Team) Working Group to oversee 
our Science Based Targets response.Of the key megatrends presenting major challenges to government, 
industry and civil society over the coming years, four are particularly 
relevant to ERM’s work with our clients within the wider context of 
sustainable development: climate change, digital transformation, 
population growth and emerging middle classes. Related to each  
of these are several topics capturing the attention of our clients and 
their key stakeholders.
In this year’s report, we focus on three of the significant topics that 
our clients are responding to: climate risk and the energy transition; 
technology-enabled innovation and the circular economy. For each 
topic, we describe the risks and opportunities for our clients and  
how we are working in very practical ways to help them deliver on  
their stated commitments, throughout their operations. We also  
outline how we are working with our clients to disclose progress  
to their stakeholders as the requirement for transparency is growing  
each year.
OPERATIONALIZING SUSTAINABILITY  
Business leaders are making bold commitments and setting 
ambitious targets to drive change – whether this be around carbon, 
plastics or human rights – and we are helping them do this.
However, setting ambitious sustainability targets is one thing;  
delivering on them, in complex organizations with extended  
value chains operating in competitive and complex markets,  
is another thing.
We describe this challenge as “operationalizing sustainability” –  
the “how” of driving action and performance. This is where many  
of our clients are seeking practical and integrated solutions with  
a strong business case to support innovative technical approaches.  
This invariably involves digital responses and the application of 
technology to improve efficiency, identify trends, predict areas  
of risk or signals for intervention, and drive performance.
INTRODUCTION5
5Although we are making good progress in meeting our annual 
sustainability targets and 5-year goals, we continue to strengthen  
our focus on those areas where we have not fully met our targets  
or where we want to aim higher: increasing diversity in our workforce, 
improving our safety and health performance, and quantifying the 
sustainability impacts of our work with clients.
RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDERS  
We are proud to be a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 
Pioneer and to be supporting GRI in a number of its initiatives, 
including the Corporate Leadership Group on Digital Reporting 
and a project to look at reducing reporting burden for companies. 
This Sustainability Report 2019 serves as our Communication on 
Progress, an annual disclosure to stakeholders on progress made 
in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in 
the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 
As highlighted in this Sustainability Report, we strongly support the 
Sustainable Development Goals, the Task Force for Climate-related 
Financial Disclosure, the Principles for Responsible Investment, 
the Women’s Empowerment Principles and other internationally 
recognized standards and initiatives.Over the past year, my team and I have strengthened our engagement 
with internal and external stakeholders on issues that are important 
them. This feedback informs our focus on the issues facing our  
world and our clients, which allows us to prioritize activities within  
our business strategy.
APPRECIATION  
On behalf of the Executive Committee, I extend my thanks to our 
clients for placing their trust in ERM and allowing us to support them 
to build sustainable businesses. I also extend my thanks to our 
employees for sharing their stories, insights and photography for this 
report. In particular, we recognize the considerable contributions of 
more than 200 voluntary members of our Sustainability Network who 
help drive action across the company. The people of ERM deliver on 
our purpose of shaping a sustainable future with the world’s leading 
organizations every day: in the services we provide our clients, the 
projects we support through the ERM Foundation and the way we 
operate our business.
ERM is committed to working with leading organizations to 
achieve change with pace and at scale.
Chief Executive Officer
WATCH THE CEO MESSAGE HEREKeryn James
INTRODUCTION6
6
Who we are
At ERM, we are shaping a sustainable future with the world’s 
leading organizations.
ERM is a leading global provider of environmental, health, safety, risk, 
social and sustainability-related consulting services. We have more 
than 5,500 people in over 40 countries and territories working out of 
more than 160 offices. ERM is committed to providing a service that  
is consistent, professional and of the highest quality to create value  
for our clients. 
We work with many of the Global Fortune 500 companies delivering 
innovative solutions for business and selected government clients 
helping them understand and manage the sustainability challenges 
that the world is increasingly facing.
For nearly 50 years, we have been working with clients around the 
world and in diverse industry sectors to help them to understand and 
manage their environmental, health, safety, risk and social impacts. 
The key sectors we serve include Power, Technology, Chemical, 
Oil and Gas, Mining, Pharmaceutical and Manufacturing. Global 
businesses are facing significant sustainability challenges, and our 
clients in these and many other sectors rely on ERM to help operate 
more sustainably and have a positive impact on our planet.
INTRODUCTIONWHO WE ARE7
ERM’s vision and values
 
Our vision is to be, by 2021, the clear leader in our chosen markets, 
to double in value and to deliver on our promises to our clients, our 
people and our investors:
•  For our clients: This means demonstrably adding value to their 
business, working with them to solve their critical challenges and 
making a significant difference to their stakeholders.
•  For our people: This means attracting, inspiring, developing and 
rewarding our people to work with the best clients and on the 
biggest challenges, thus creating valuable careers.
•  For our investors (including ERM partners): This means 
delivering strong returns to those that have chosen to invest in us 
today and the future.•  For the planet and society in which we live: This means having 
a greater impact on the sustainability challenges that face us all.
Putting our values in action is essential to our success – in our own 
operations and in our work with clients and the ERM Foundation:
•  Accountability:  We are each personally accountable and jointly 
responsible for the success of ERM and for the delivery of quality 
work to our clients.
•  Caring for our people: We are looking after our people, their 
safety, well-being and development. We also treat each other  
with respect.•  Client focus:  We value entrepreneurial, innovative and client-
orientated behavior.
•  Collaboration:  We are one organization globally: we believe in the 
principles of partnership, respect for each and every individual, and 
mutual support across the world.
•  Empowerment:  We help our people to realize their potential.
•  Transparency:  We expect the highest level of ethical behavior  
and personal integrity in all our transactions in accordance with  
our ERM Code of Business Conduct and Ethics .
INTRODUCTION8
Value chain
 
ERM’s sustainability context is driven by our value chain. We are 
a group of experienced professionals with outstanding technical 
expertise and business acumen from across the world. As an 
organization with a clear purpose and strong values ERM deploys  this experience and expertise to deliver impact through the work with 
our clients, through collaborating with others and through improving 
our own operations. 
Value Chain
GOODS & SERVICES
• Business travel
• Offices
• Supplies & equipment 
• SubcontractorsFINANCIAL RESOURCES
• ERM Partners
• External financial partners
• Corporate governance
PEOPLE
• Technical expertise
• Understanding of complex
sustainability challenges
• Safety culture
• Diversity & inclusion focus
• Partnership model
• Learning and development
• ERM FoundationInputs
WORKING WITH CLIENTS
• Creating value for clients by
enhancing their positive, and
reducing their negative,
environmental & social impacts
• Making a difference for the planet
OUR PURPOSE
Shaping a sustainable
future with the world’s
leading organizations
OUR VALUES
Accountability
Caring for People
Client Focus
Collaboration
Empowerment
TransparencyWITHIN OUR OPERATIONS
• Providing safe & healthy workplaces
• Keeping communities safe in
& around field-based sites 
• Reducing environmental footprint
• Attracting, developing, rewarding 
& retaining  talented employeesImpacts
COLLABORATING WITH OTHERS
• Innovating with clients & organizations
to address complex challenges
• Contributing to society
& local communities
• Progressing the Sustainable
Development Goals
INTRODUCTION9
9
Acquisitions strengthen 
ERM’s capability Case Study
During FY19, we acquired two firms, Kathy Jones and  
Associates and SustainAbility, which provide unique  
strengths that complement and expand our services  
to meet our clients’ needs.
ERM acquired Kathy Jones and Associates Pty Ltd (KJA)  
in November 2018. KJA is recognized as one of Australia’s 
leading specialist stakeholder engagement and communication 
consultancies. KJA provides strategic stakeholder engagement and 
communication services to a diverse range of clients and projects. 
Over the past 20 years, KJA has specialized in stakeholder 
engagement across all stages of multi-billion dollar infrastructure and 
urban regeneration projects. The acquisition of KJA enhances ERM’s 
offering on complex projects and our ability to identify and engage 
stakeholders on large projects from the early stages through the  
entire project life cycle.  
 
In January 2019, ERM announced the acquisition of SustainAbility, 
a leading think tank and advisory firm. SustainAbility has helped 
define and evolve the sustainable development agenda and the 
role of business within it. Throughout its history, it has worked with 
business and stakeholders to enable a more just and sustainable 
INTRODUCTIONWHO WE ARE10
economy. It offers consulting services to help clients make better 
decisions through integrating sustainability into their business, and 
by creating innovative solutions. SustainAbility’s think tank is an 
independent, agenda-shaping research and advocacy capability that 
enables companies to transform how they think and do business, by 
identifying critical trends, providing actionable insights and building 
new ideas and strategies. 
 
According to Keryn James, “Both KJA and ERM’s clients are conscious 
of the need to engage effectively with communities and stakeholders 
as part of the successful implementation of business strategies and 
large capital projects. ERM is now well advanced in building the leading 
position in this area. KJA has established an impressive business in 
Australia and we look forward to introducing their specialist expertise  
to our current and future clients around the globe.”
“The acquisition of SustainAbility Ltd further strengthens ERM’s 
standing in sustainability advisory services,” explains Keryn James, 
ERM Group Chief Executive. “Its reputation and capability build our 
existing thought leadership approach, and we will look to leverage the 
two firms’ strong alignment around clients, sectors and services to 
enhance our approach to the market. The excellent alignment of both 
businesses will create a unique capability and service offering which 
can materially add value to our clients’ business.”Case Study: Acquisitions strengthen ERM’s capability 
The excellent alignment of both 
businesses will create a unique 
capability and service offering  
which can materially add value  
to our clients’ business.”
INTRODUCTION11
11Our report this year is organized around the ways through which 
ERM has the most significant sustainability impact.
Through stakeholder engagement and our formal materiality 
assessment process, we identified the most material sustainability-
related topics for ERM and have focused on these topics throughout 
this report. For more information, see Reporting approach .Our report at a glance
INTRODUCTIONOUR REPORT AT A GLANCE
The work we 
do with our 
clients around 
the world
How we 
operate our 
160+ offices
Our 
collaborations 
with others, 
including 
the ERM 
Foundation12Performance 
results
 
 
In this section, we share our performance  
against ERM’s 2019 sustainability targets and  
our targets for 2020 and beyond. Detailed 
information is included in the supporting 
data sections which can be found in the 
online report. Our contribution to the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  
can be found here .
 
FY19 results against 
targets and goals
 
As shown in the following table, ERM either met 
or made good progress towards our FY19 targets 
and the 5-year goals we established for ourselves. 
We considered the FY19 results as we set our 
targets for FY20.Material topics FY19 target 5-year goal 
(to be met by the end of FY22 unless 
otherwise indicated)Performance against FY19 targets and 
5-year goals
Governance No fines or 
nonmonetary 
sanctions for material 
noncompliance with 
laws or regulations.No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material 
noncompliance with laws or regulations.Target met and continued progress toward meeting  
long-term goal.
We had no fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material 
noncompliance with laws or regulations.
See the section on Governance  for more details.
Our people Show increase over 
prior year for gender 
diversity among Senior 
Consultants, Technical 
Directors and Partners.
Show increase over 
prior year for diversity 
in ERM’s Senior 
Leadership Team.Our employees reflect the diversity of the 
communities in which we work, based on gender, 
language and other measures.Target met and continued progress toward meeting  
long-term goal.
Our gender diversity increased among Senior Consultants, 
Technical Directors and Partners.
The diversity profile of the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) 
remained consistent from FY18 to FY19.
A range of factors are considered in appointments to ERM’s 
Senior Leadership team including language, nationality, gender, 
role, professional background and education.
See the section on Our people  for more details.
Occupational 
health and 
safetyDays away from work 
case (DAWC) rate at 
or below 0.10 and no 
fatalities. DAWC rate below 0.06 and no fatalities. Target partially met and continued progress toward meeting 
long-term goal. Our DAWC rate remained unchanged at 0.17.  
We had no employee fatalities.
See the section on Occupational health and safety  for  
more details.
Climate 
changeAdopt ambitious long-
term greenhouse gas 
(GHG) targets based on 
science.Achieve forecast progress towards longer term 
Science Based Targets for 2025 and 2050.Target met and continued progress toward meeting  
long-term goal.
Ambitious GHG emissions targets validated by Science Based 
Targets initiative. 
See the section on Climate change  for more details.
Innovating 
with clients 
and other 
leading 
organizationsMeasure impacts of 
material innovations 
delivered to market in 
FY19.Measure and report the impacts of innovating 
with clients and other organizations to address 
sustainability challenges.Target met and continued progress toward meeting  
long-term goal.
In FY19, in response to client demand we focused on innovation 
within selected integrated solutions which exceeded targets 
within the growth plan.
See the section on Innovating with clients  for more details.
Contributing 
to society 
and local 
communitiesContribute 1% of prior 
year profits to support 
sustainability initiatives 
around the globe, 
primarily through the 
ERM Foundation.Increase Foundation contributions over time 
(e.g., percentage of employees engaged, 
company donations, employee funding).
Measure and report the impacts of Foundation 
and other non-client-generated projects/
programs on Sustainable Development Goals.Target met and continued progress toward meeting  
long-term goal.
We contributed 1.1% of prior year profits to global sustainability 
initiatives, primarily through the ERM Foundation.
See the sections on Contributing to society and local 
communities  for more details.PERFORMANCE RESULTS
INTRODUCTION13
Future targets  
and goals
 
Based on our materiality analysis, we have 
established material topics, targets for FY20  
and 5-year goals.Material topics FY20 target 5-year goal 
(to be met by the end of FY22 unless 
otherwise indicated)
Governance No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material 
noncompliance with laws or regulations.
100% completion of ERM business conduct and ethics 
mandatory new starter training requirements.No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material 
noncompliance with laws or regulations.
Our people Increase gender diversity among Senior Consultants, 
Technical Directors and Partners by 10% over previous 
year.
Develop ERM Global Inclusion Leadership Index and 
baseline.
Improve the Employee Engagement Survey Inclusion 
score from the baseline by 10%.Our employees reflect the diversity of the 
communities in which we work, based on gender, 
language and other measures.
Occupational 
health and 
safetyDays Away from Work case (DAWC) rate of 0.10 for ERM 
employees.
No Life Impacting or Fatal Events¹ for ERM and 
subcontractor staff.
Achieve a Safety AT ERM global score of 65².
Improve the Employee Engagement Survey well-being 
question score from the baseline by 10%³.DAWC rate below 0.06 and no fatalities.
Climate 
changeRemain on track to meet 2025 SBTi targets. Achieve forecasted progress towards longer-term 
Science Based Targets for 2025 and 2050.
Innovating 
with clients 
and other 
leading 
organizationsAchieve growth targets of 25% in FY20 from identified 
integrated solutions within the Services Innovation and 
Growth Plan.Measure and report the impacts of innovating 
with clients and other organizations to address 
sustainability challenges.
Contributing 
to society 
and local 
communitiesSet impact-based targets for ERM Foundation 
contribution to the SDGs (based on FY19 baseline). 
Contribute 1% of prior year profits to support 
sustainability initiatives around the globe, primarily 
through the ERM Foundation.Measure and report the impacts of Foundation 
and other non-client-generated projects/
programs on Sustainable Development Goals.
Increase Foundation contributions over time 
(e.g., percentage of employees engaged, 
company donations, employee funding).1. Life Impacting Events are defined as any 
work-related injury/illness resulting in 
permanent disability (to include partial 
and/or total disability). Partial disability 
would mean something like loss of a 
finger or toe or worse – but the injured 
worker could still perform her/his job or 
similar. Total disability means the injured 
worker can never return to the workforce 
b/c of the injury/illness (i.e., paralyzed, 
loss of sight, etc.).
2. The Safety AT ERM score includes 
an evaluation of nearly all aspects of 
our overall program (including SMS 
self-assessment scoring). The scores 
are calculated at the business unit level, 
and we the global score is derived by 
calculating a weighted average of each 
operational business unit score (weighting 
based on hours worked). A target of 65 
is given to each business unit and region 
for FY20.
3. EES question on well-being: “The 
company supports me in achieving a 
reasonable balance between my work  
life and personal life.”
INTRODUCTION14
14
Sustainability at ERM
Sustainability at ERM is a commitment to supporting socio-
economic development that meets the needs of the present 
without compromising the ability of future generations to 
meet their own needs. 
Our business is sustainability. We are therefore positioned uniquely 
to contribute to the resolution of complex sustainability challenges.
ERM’s Sustainability Program is an overarching framework that 
supports our long-term business strategy and drives continual 
improvement. Our Sustainability Policy  and Sustainability  
Approach  articulate our commitments to sustainability.
The Executive Committee Sustainability Working Group brings 
together members of the Executive Committee from across the 
organization to provide strategic and technical decision-making 
on economic, environmental and social topics. Current members 
include our Group CEO; the Global Director of Services, Brand  
and Communications; our Group Human Resources Director;  
and the Regional CEO for Latin America and the Caribbean.  
The Global Sustainability Director facilitates the Executive 
Committee Sustainability Working Group.
The Sustainability Working Group is responsible for ERM’s 
Materiality Assessment and sustainability target setting. The full 
Executive Committee and the Board of Directors review the results 
of the Materiality Assessment  and final sustainability targets .  
The Executive Committee and Sustainability Working Group  
monitor performance against targets. For some of the sustainability 
targets, such as the Safety AT ERM score , performance is considered in determining senior management annual performance 
targets and bonuses.  
A Senior Leadership Team (SLT) Working Group has been 
established with senior operational and technical leaders from 
across the business to provide oversight and guidance on the 
implementation plan to meet our public commitment to Science 
Based Targets.  
ERM’s Sustainability 
Network
 
 
At ERM, we know that employee engagement is crucial for 
successfully implementing  our sustainability program. Our program 
is supported by a voluntary Sustainability Network of more than 200 
employees across over 40 countries and territories. The Network 
mirrors that of our operational organization with representatives  
at regional, business unit and operational levels. 
Members of the network are drawn from all ERM employees to 
ensure all perspectives are included, and this in turns strengthen 
ownership of outcomes. The Sustainability Network helps to drive 
improvements in our sustainability performance, and embeds 
sustainability into the way we operate as a business.
INTRODUCTIONSUSTAINABILITY AT ERM15
Material topics Why topic is material to ERM
GovernanceGood corporate governance is essential to the financial success and sustainability 
of ERM. Without adequate systems and practices, we would lose the trust of 
our company’s stakeholders: shareholders and investors, management and 
employees, clients, suppliers and contractors, governments, nongovernmental 
organizations and the communities in which we operate. We must conduct 
business with uncompromising honesty and integrity, adhering to laws, 
regulations, and our written Code of Conduct.
Our peopleOur ability to attract, develop, reward and retain talented employees is central to 
our business strategy and vital to our future. We want to hire passionate people 
and ensure that we nurture and support their development and success. We are 
focused on building best in class talent development programs and addressing 
diversity and inclusion across the organization.
Occupational health  
and safetyThe most important role for all ERM’s leaders is to keep everyone safe. We have 
company procedures and protocols to support our efforts, and we recognize 
active leadership as the most important element. However, it does not start nor 
end with ERM’s leaders – everyone has a responsibility for doing the safest work 
possible. If we cannot operate safely and without incident, then we cannot live up 
to our values. This is driven by our belief in the culture of caring about the well-
being of our people, our clients and our contractors. 
Climate changeAs a leading sustainability consultancy, climate-related risk is not just an 
environmental issue, but also one that has a direct impact on ERM’s financial 
health, reputation as well as our ability to retain and attract talent. Our most 
significant contribution in helping to combat climate change is through our work 
with clients, in some of the most energy-intensive industries, as they transition to a 
lower-carbon future. Nonetheless, we continue to take steps toward reducing the 
environmental impacts of our operations, with the greatest focus on reducing our 
direct and indirect impact on climate change.
Innovating with clients and 
other leading organizationsInnovation is at the core of ERM’s ability to make a difference for our clients, 
the planet and the long-term strength of our company. Whether leveraging 
technology to help meet sustainability challenges or collaborating with business 
and nongovernmental organizations to develop new tools and approaches, ERM 
partners and innovates with others. Our ability to innovate is the direct result of our 
ability to attract and retain people with strong technical expertise, coupled with a 
solid understanding of the commercial imperatives of business and the societal 
demands impacting the world’s leading organizations. 
Contributing to society  
and local communitiesAs a sustainability-focused company, we encourage our consultants to share the 
lessons learned and insights gained from our work on more than 20,000 projects 
annually. In particular, we focus on those technical and professional skills that can 
have the greatest positive impact. This impact is driven not only by our work with 
clients, but notably through the work of the ERM Foundation.Our material topics
 
Each year, ERM conducts a formal materiality assessment in 
accordance with the GRI standard to identify and prioritize our most 
significant sustainability topics, set KPIs and targets for improvement, 
and guide the content for our Sustainability Report. Learn more about 
our materiality assessment process .
INTRODUCTION1616
Online platform 
empowers Sustainability 
Network Case Study
ERM has developed a new online platform to make it easier for 
our business units to track the implementation of performance 
plans for each of our material sustainability topics. Designed in 
consultation with our Sustainability Network members, the platform 
provides a standardized format for business unit plans. With greater 
comparability between business units, we can more effectively 
assess performance against targets through mid-year and annual 
progress reports.  
  
Each business unit’s plan will address common actions associated 
with ERM’s material topics, customized to reflect their local context. 
The common actions will make it easier to track and measure 
progress companywide, and help inform the targets we set for  
year-on-year improvements.  
The platform is open to all employees, which will improve 
transparency and accountability for the level of ambition and delivery 
against the plans. We are using our internal social media platforms 
and personal engagement to share best practices and encourage 
positive competition among the business units and offices. 
With greater visibility and usability, this new tool promises to 
help drive performance at the local level and support ERM’s 
companywide sustainability targets.CASE STUDY
INTRODUCTIONSUSTAINABILITY AT ERM17
Photo Credits
Download
A FULL LIST OF PHOTO CREDITSPHOTO CREDITS
INTRODUCTION18
We recognize that our greatest impact is through work we do 
with our clients.
By providing strategic consulting and technical services in the 
environmental, health and safety (EHS), risk and social areas, we are 
shaping a sustainable future with the world’s leading organizations.  
We most frequently do this for companies that have the biggest impact 
on the planet –including those in the power, chemical, technology, oil 
and gas, mining and manufacturing sectors.ClientsImpact with
BACK TO CONTENTS19
In this year’s report, we focus on three key topics within the megatrends 
context that are affecting our clients’ businesses and the world.  
For each of these topics – climate change and the energy transition, 
tech-enabled innovation and the circular economy – we share how 
ERM’s work with clients over the past year has helped companies 
improve performance, operate more efficiently, meet compliance 
obligations, more effectively engage with stakeholders and meet 
expectations for disclosure, manage environmental and social 
stewardship, and keep workers and local communities safe. •  Climate change and energy transition  - Responding to climate 
change is a priority issue for ERM, our clients and society.
•  Tech-enabled innovation  - We co-develop and operationalize 
digital transformations that support our clients’ sustainability 
strategies and performance.
•  Circular economy  - Investors and other stakeholders are pressing 
companies to make large-scale changes that integrate sustainability 
into their culture and purpose. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS20
Climate change and 
energy transition
Responding to climate change is a priority issue for ERM, our clients 
and society, and deeply influences the way businesses interact 
with governments, customers and local communities. The recently 
published Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
special report Global Warming of 1.5 ºC clearly describes the key 
impacts and differences between 1.5 °C and 2°C of warming.  
The IPCC urges immediate global action in rapidly reducing  
carbon dioxide emissions at an unprecedented pace and scale.
WHY CLIMATE CHANGE IS A HOT TOPIC:
•  The 2018 IPCC special report indicates that global warming is 
worse than scientists had previously anticipated. Significant action 
is needed immediately to strengthen the global response. At the 
same time, global demand for energy is predicted to continue  
to rise.
•  Increasingly, governments, regulatory bodies and stock exchanges 
are calling for companies to provide information to investors, 
lenders, insurers and other stakeholders on the physical, liability and 
transition risks associated with climate change. To appropriately 
incorporate the effects of climate change into their planning 
processes, organizations need to consider how resilient their 
business model is to climate-related risks and opportunities as well 
as the financial implications under different conditions. One way to 
assess such implications is through the use of scenario analysis.•  In addition, the IPCC special report clearly indicates that we must 
remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere alongside reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. ERM is actively involved in carbon 
capture, utilization and storage projects, which provides a viable 
option to significantly reduce industrial carbon dioxide emissions 
as well as other emerging solutions. ERM is also working with 
clients on natural climate solutions to help reduce carbon 
emissions and store more carbon in the landscape. 
•  To meet the reductions in carbon envisioned by the IPCC special 
report, governments and organizations are exploring alternative 
renewable energy sources. One of the emerging areas of interest 
is hydrogen and ERM, in particular, is working with clients on 
evaluating the impacts of hydrogen as a viable energy source.•  Given this context, our clients are looking at:
-  Setting public emissions targets in line with the best available 
science. ERM is a leader among our peers by setting our own 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions targets approved by the Science 
Based Target Initiative.
-  Determining how to reduce the amount of energy required  
in future operations and sourcing it from less carbon-
intensive sources.
-  Capitalizing on the changes through exploring business 
opportunities associated with the transition to alternatives.
-  Collaborating with other organizations to determine how  
their waste might be another organization’s feedstock.CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION21
21We are also working with organizations on the critical role of 
forests in removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and are 
involved with initiatives leading into the Conference of the Parties 
on biological diversity in 2020. For example, ERM in France is a 
partner in the act4nature  biodiversity initiative of Entreprises pour 
l’Environnement, the coordinator of the European network of the 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development. As a partner, 
our operations in France has pledged to meet specific commitments 
supporting biodiversity.
Based on the results of our 2018 survey, The Journey to a 
Sustainable Business – Navigating the road ahead , data 
shows us that Chief Executive Officers, Chief Financial Officers, 
Chief Information Officers and board members are paying 
greater attention to, and influencing, climate-related strategy and 
management, in response to investor demand for better information 
and more accountability from companies.
The Journey to a Sustainable 
Business: Navigating the road ahead  
 
We found that executives are now 
serious – and intensely practical – as 
they confront the growing business risks 
and opportunities associated with client 
change, population change and natural 
resource constraints.
*Results from survey of 150 executives globally
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS2222
A step change in 
climate reportingCase Study
Given the potential of climate change to destabilize the global 
economy, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure 
(TCFD) was established to reduce the probability of a shock to the 
global economic system. 
Investors are demanding transparency around climate-related business 
and financial risks, which in turn is driving corporate boardroom 
decision-making. In response, companies must translate the business 
implications of climate-driven policy, regulatory, market and technology 
shifts – and disclose their responses to investors and the general public.
ERM’s deep experience over the past decade in climate-related 
scenario analysis for business led to our assisting the TCFD in authoring 
the Technical Supplement on Scenario Analysis (the “how to” guidance 
produced by TCFD). 
ERM is helping companies across the banking, asset management, 
insurance, infrastructure, transportation, energy, utilities, mining, 
cement, industrials, chemicals and pharmaceuticals and food and 
beverage sectors undertake scenario analysis, evaluate commercial 
consequences and prepare strategic responses. We are working with 
companies to meet TCFD recommendations as they assess their 
climate-related business risks and prepare to disclose information to the 
investment community as they work to assess their potential exposure.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION23
Investors have been tracking a rising tide of data that relates broad 
environmental and social concerns with the financial performance 
of companies. A joint Yale/ERM survey from 2018 of almost 100 
investors reveals a significant and accelerating commitment to  
better understand climate change risks in the financial disclosures  
of companies. This commitment has taken shape through support  
for the TCFD.
ERM and the Yale Center for Business and the Environment co-
authored a paper about the rise of environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) investing, the guidance put forth by the TCFD  
and common elements across resources that companies will likely 
need to address when adopting the TCFD recommendations.Case Study: A step change in climate reporting
The survey results highlight the 
gap between investor expectations 
for decision-useful information 
on the risks presented by climate 
change and the current challenges 
faced by reporting companies to 
move beyond emissions data to 
meaningful climate risk assessment 
and management.”
Todd Cort
Lecturer in Sustainability, Yale School of Management  
and Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies
Download
INVESTORS PUSH THE PACE OF 
CLIMATE RISK FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS
2424
Hydrogen fuel  
for the futureCase Study
ERM is heavily involved in the evaluation of hydrogen as a 
sustainable fuel and energy vector for decarbonizing heat, power 
and transportation. Our expertise is being applied across a wide 
range of innovative projects in Japan, the United Kingdom and the 
United States involving the provision of strategic advice, financial 
modelling, layout development, safety and risk evaluation, stakeholder 
engagement, environmental impacts assessment, data management 
and health, safety, social and environmental consent delivery. 
Our work spans production, storage, transport and end-use including 
hydrogen production facilities with carbon capture and storage, power 
to gas, electrolyzer/fuel cell applications, gas networks evaluation, 
hydrogen trains, energy storage, pipelines and bulk scale hydrogen 
generation from renewables.
ERM UK is supporting SGN and the Scottish Government on a highly 
innovative project to determine the technical and commercial viability 
of a 100% hydrogen gas network demonstration project. Three 
potential sites for building the new network have been identified in 
Scotland, each involving 200 to 300 homes, with hydrogen proposed 
to provide low carbon heating. ERM’s work will help identify the 
best technical and economic solution for hydrogen generation and 
storage at each location. It will also help determine the potential for 
the scheme to be scaled up to enable wider hydrogen usage (for 
extended heat or transport application) in the future. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION2525
Renewable  
energy changing  
the power sectorCase Study
ERM is a full-service environmental provider to the power sector. 
We deliver practical, innovative and integrated solutions that reduce 
business risks, lower costs and ultimately help our clients achieve 
desired business outcomes. ERM supports the environmental 
planning, impact assessment, construction, compliance and 
management of renewable energy facilities and transmission and 
distribution facilities. Our experience encompasses hundreds of 
thousands of megawatts of generation, and thousands of miles  
of linear energy delivery facilities. 
ERM prepared the environmental and social impact assessment 
(ESIA) for a wind farm for EleQtra (West Africa) Limited and its 
partner ENGIE in Ghana. As part of scoping, ERM conducted 
a field reconnaissance visit and constraints mapping to assist 
in turbine placement. The results of scoping were disclosed to 
local communities during a series of public meetings. The full 
assessment included noise and shadow flicker modelling, a full social 
baseline survey including key informant interviews and focus group 
discussions, and preparation of a land acquisition and compensation 
plan. ERM used bird and bat monitoring data for the assessment that 
had been collected over several years by the client. We also prepared 
a land acquisition plan that met International Finance Corporation 
performance standard requirements.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION2626
Carbon capture 
utilization and 
storage supportCase Study
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a proven technology that 
has been in use for many decades. There are 18 CCS facilities in 
commercial operation, 5 under construction and 20 in various stages 
of development. The pace is accelerating and looks set to ramp up 
sharply in the late 2020s and beyond. In 2018, 6 new large-scale 
CCS facilities were added to the Global CCS Institute database. All 
are in Europe and have connection to CCS decarbonized hydrogen 
production with CCS.
ERM worked with the CO2 Capture Project (CCP) to study the role of 
CCS in the energy transition. ERM’s study found that CCS is a critical 
element in most pathways for limiting global warming to less than 2 
degrees Celsius.
The contribution envisaged for CCS in different studies reviewed by 
ERM ranged from 10% to over 20% of the total emission reductions 
required. The results of this ERM study for CCP were presented at a 
side event at COP24 Climate Change conference in Poland in 2018, in 
meetings of IPIECA and the Society of Petroleum Engineers and in the 
Carbon Capture Journal newsletter. 
View online
THIS ERM STUDY FOR CCP CAN BE 
VIEWED ONLINE
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION2727
Reducing CO2  
emissions through 
sustainable remediationCase Study
Brazil’s São Paulo State Environmental Agency required a confidential 
client in the Chemical sector to excavate and dispose of over 200,000 
tons of hazardous waste from a former on-site landfill in São Paulo in 
order for its site operations permit to be renewed. ERM was engaged 
to work with the agency to carry out several investigations and 
determine the activity level of the landfill. 
After nearly five years of environmental assessments, remediation 
activities and intensive interactions with the company and the agency, 
ERM developed a comprehensive maintenance plan for leaving the 
landfill in place. The agency withdrew its request with the approval  
of the landfill maintenance plan developed by ERM. 
The effort to remove the landfill would have taken approximately 
6,500 truck trips between the site and the landfill, equivalent to 
approximately 1.3 million kilometers (800,000 miles). At the end,  
not removing the landfill resulted in savings of 1,370,000 kilograms  
of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.CASE STUDY
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION2828
Continuing carbon 
reductions from 
Olympic gamesCase Study
More than four years after Olympic Winter Games Sochi 2014, ERM 
verified carbon reduction from projects initiated to balance the carbon 
footprint of the event has amounted to 2,752,803 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO2e), more than five times the commitment made 
by The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) to the Sochi 2014 Organizing 
Committee in Dow’s role as the Games’ Official Carbon Partner. 
Dow was also the Official Carbon Partner of Rio 2016 and in this 
capacity, Dow delivered the committed 500,000 tonnes of CO2e, 
balancing the estimated direct footprint of the Rio 2016 Organizing 
Committee, and an additional 733,677 tonnes of CO2e towards the 
broader aspirational goal of the Olympic Games ahead of the expected 
time frame. These data and status reports on the Olympic carbon 
reduction programs are published in a new carbon report specifically 
related to Dow’s collaborations with the Olympic Movement. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION29
Sochi 2014 was the first Olympic Games to have the direct carbon 
footprint of the Organizing Committee mitigated even before 
the event’s Opening Ceremony while Rio 2016 had the most 
comprehensive carbon mitigation program, reaching beyond Brazil  
to introduce low carbon technologies across Latin America. 
“Dow’s initiatives with the Olympic Games are being monitored and 
disclosed under the Monitoring, Reporting and Verification guidelines 
prescribed by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change by ERM Group. Our responsibility is to conduct independent 
assessments and validation of Dow’s reports and verify project 
results,” explained Braulio Pikman, Technical Director at ERM. “The 
efforts undertaken by Dow are accurately reported and aligned with 
the methodology outlined in Dow’s Climate Solutions Framework that 
consolidates, adapts and goes beyond the most acknowledgeable 
international guidelines while ensuring environmental integrity is 
protected in all cases.”Case Study: Continuing carbon reductions from Olympic games
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS3030
Green bond to  
fund hydropower  
in NigeriaCase Study
ERM assisted North South Power (NSP) through technical assistance 
from the African Local Currency Bond Fund (ALCB), with developing 
a Green Bond Framework, focusing on its hydropower assets. NSP 
has now issued Nigeria’s first corporate Green Bond valued at $23.6 
million and oversubscribed by 60%. A green bond is a financing 
option for investing in climate and environmental projects. The Series 
1 Green Bond is the first certified green corporate bond and the 
longest tenured (15 year) corporate bond issued in the Nigeria debt 
capital markets. 
Proceeds from the Green Bond are expected to fund the overhaul of a 
150-megawatt hydropower turbine as well as finance the replacement 
of the NSP’s current short-term foreign and local bank facilities with 
long-term local currency debt.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION3131
Accelerating the 
transition to low-
carbon energy 
solutions Case Study
ERM Senior Consultant Lindee Wong has been seconded to manage 
the New Energy Solutions project at the World Business Council  
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This project is helping  
scale up the use of low-carbon energy solutions in line with the  
Paris Agreement.
The project published a report that presents pathways and 
technologies to decarbonize the energy system. In addition,  
the project is preparing guidelines for energy users to develop  
an integrated energy strategy and a comprehensive set of business 
cases for low-carbon energy solutions.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION32
32
Market forces and investor pressure are driving our clients 
to manage risk and optimize operational performance at a 
greater pace and scale than before. 
To achieve the pace and scale n eeded, companies are pursuing 
innovation and new value creation opportunities across their value 
chains. This can only be done through digital transformation, which 
is needed to accelerate growth from innovation. 
We work with clients to understand their business needs and  
to co-develop and operationalize a strong digital transformation  
that supports their sustainability strategy and environmental,  
health and safety (EHS) performance – underpinned by tech-
enabled innovation. 
We have developed our digital business services to respond to client 
needs through:
•  Devising strategies for managing data, platforms and systems  
long term;
•  Helping organizations select and deploy information management 
solutions to manage their sustainability programs; and 
•  Helping clients analyze their data effectively and set up work flows 
that help them routinely extract actionable business insights from 
their data .
ERM has continued to make investments to improve our capabilities 
and create value for our clients. NEXUS by ERM is the ERM way 
of harnessing technology to deliver more value to our clients. This 
includes a significant capital investment to help ensure its success.Tech-enabled 
innovation
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION33
33
Recognized leader in 
digital EHS servicesCase Study
Our clients are under increasing pressure to improve their 
sustainability performance, minimize risk and create new value.  
A successful digital solution should not only draw data from a variety 
of internal and external sources, but also be able to blend that data  
in an analytics engine and distill it down to actionable insights. 
ERM combines technologies and approaches that improve automation 
of data acquisition – such as sensors, drones, augmented reality and 
virtual reality – with other, traditional data streams. Our analytics team, 
working alongside subject matter experts, help clients translate their 
data assets into actionable insights that can improve outcomes. 
This has led ERM to be recognized as a leader in the digital 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) services provider market 
by independent analyst firm Verdantix. Its 2019 Green Quadrant 
Digital EHS Services Report  provides an independent benchmark 
of the strongest digital EHS service providers and explores how 
consultants are digitizing their approaches to project delivery, creating 
new services and implementing innovative technologies to help clients 
enhance and advance EHS performance. 
Leveraging our Information Solutions, Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) 
and Liability Portfolio Management and Remediation businesses 
with deep subject matter expertise in sustainability topics helps us 
collaborate with clients to create innovative solutions and new value  
in this area.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION3434
Delivering commercially 
focused programs  
with NEXUS by ERMCase Study
Harnessing technology and data is a core pillar of ERM’s strategy. 
NEXUS by ERM is our major investment to develop integrated 
technology and tools to digitize and streamline how we deliver 
programs of work across ERM on behalf of our clients. Liability 
Portfolio Management was launched in July 2018. Work on 
technology-enabling our Due Diligence service offering is undergoing 
early testing since the beginning of 2019. 
For clients with Liability Portfolio Management and Remediation 
requirements, NEXUS is enabling a digital workflow approach 
to improve efficiency, data driven decision making and business 
outcomes across operational assets and legacy site portfolios.  
Our enhanced workflow approach enables clients to maximize site 
value through data management system support, data analytics, data 
visualization and real-time data portfolio dashboards to help make 
fully informed and timely strategic and complex technical decisions.We are providing clients with commercially focused mergers and 
acquisitions (M&A) advice underpinned by a technology enabled 
Due Diligence approach that facilitates deal negotiations and creates 
and protects value throughout and beyond the transaction life cycle. 
The NEXUS by ERM for Due Diligence workflow approach creates 
a platform to harness data insights, peer benchmarking, emerging 
issue and sectoral trends analysis to inform our clients’ organizational 
M&A and growth strategies, transaction planning, execution and 
negotiation position. 
Environmental Business Journal recognized ERM with a technology 
merit: information award for the global deployment of NEXUS by ERM. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION3535
Powering our data 
driven materiality 
assessmentCase Study
Companies now have access to a comprehensive, data-driven 
materiality analysis process with ongoing analytics and advisory 
services, thanks to an exciting global partnership with Datamaran . 
ERM’s offering brings together Datamaran’s proprietary artificial 
intelligence technology and ERM’s advisory services in an exclusive 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) materiality offering. The 
offering will give companies the most real-time and comprehensive 
understanding of their material ESG topics, aligning executive teams 
and providing a sound basis for strategic decision-making.
Datamaran is a unique software platform that provides the most 
comprehensive view of new and emerging regulatory, reputational 
and competitive developments for ESG topics, along with the robust 
data to support it. ERM’s sustainability advisors work with companies 
to utilize the platform and apply the insights to business strategy and 
in disclosure to stakeholders. This partnership gives companies the 
best of both worlds – state-of-the-art artificial intelligence technology 
and advisory services – providing the most sophisticated materiality 
analysis on the market.ERM is the only sustainability advisory services firm that provides 
a robust, data-driven and real-time materiality analysis powered by 
Datamaran. ERM’s expert advisory teams will build on the insights 
from Datamaran’s cutting-edge materiality process and tailor them  
to the client’s needs. This means companies can smartly invest  
time and money in analysis, consultation, ESG management and 
strategic advice, rather than on lengthy manual analyses. With 
Datamaran, investment can be focused on engaging and aligning 
the executive team on strategy, getting the most out of the ERM 
consultants’ expertise.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION
3636
Researching nature  
for ExxonMobil GuyanaCase Study
ERM was featured recently in an article, “ From Exploration 
to Discovery – Researching Nature in Guyana .” The article 
summarizes some of the results of ERM’s work for ExxonMobil 
Guyana to conduct bird, marine and sea turtle studies offshore and 
along the coast of Guyana. ERM also contributed to an ecosystem 
services study, which documented the relationship between coastal 
ecosystems and local human populations – the first study of its kind  
to be conducted coast-wide in Guyana. 
ERM leveraged technology throughout the project to ensure safe, 
timely and accurate results. With specially adapted tablets, the 
team produced real-time data analytics in the field. Connecting with 
geospatial specialists located in ERM offices, local team members 
were able to conduct extensive and precise coastal mapping that 
was critical to the integrity of the biodiversity studies. Highlights 
from the field studies included successfully tagging sea turtles with 
telemetry devices to understand their nesting, dive and migratory 
patterns; identifying bird and fish species that had not been previously 
recorded in Guyana; and the participation of over 700 local community 
members in the collection of ecosystem services data along the coast. 
Learn more
WATCH THIS SHORT VIDEO FROM 
EXXONMOBIL GUYANA
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION3737
INNsafety the safety 
innovation showcaseCase Study
ERM sponsored and facilitated INNsafety: The Safety Innovation 
Showcase, a unique industry 4.0 event, in November 2018. The Paris 
event brought together innovative start-ups, tech companies and 
health and safety leaders from around the world to shape the future  
of safety in the workplace.
Safety is a fundamental aspect of any sustainable business: 
companies across all sectors face common challenges relating to 
safety in the workplace. Recent technological advances are creating 
exciting opportunities to develop innovative solutions that can radically 
change the way companies tackle these issues.
At INNsafety, some of the most innovative start-ups and tech 
companies in the field of safety showcased their solutions during a 
series of interactive meet-up sessions, giving corporate health and 
safety directors direct access to new technologies that have the 
potential to create a breakthrough in safety performance.
This was a unique opportunity to gain insight into new technologies, 
meet future partners, and share inspiring ideas with fellow health  
and safety leaders who face similar challenges.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION3838
Using drone technology 
across the globeCase Study
ERM continues to use drone technology across the globe to more 
safely and efficiently gather project-specific data at a fraction of the 
cost compared to more traditional aerial and ground platforms.  
Such work includes:
•  Counting turtle tracks on beaches and undertaking marine habitat 
assessments in Australia and Southeast Asia;
•  Marking a cut-off date on resettlement projects and helping take 
inventory of structures and other assets;
•  Helping construction clients in the United Kingdom identify solutions 
to minimize risk exposure to their survey teams working on airport 
runways;
•  Generating a high-resolution digital surface model and calculating 
volumes for monitoring a remediation process for projects in 
Switzerland and Germany; and
•  Pre-scanning using thermal imagery and video documenting a gas 
storage facility demolition project using explosives.
Drones help expedite projects, reduce operating costs and improve 
the safety of field personnel.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION3939
Providing safety-critical 
solutions with eVision  Case Study
ERM and eVision  announced a strategic partnership in February 2019 
to enhance innovation, accelerate operational excellence and improve 
safety performance for their collective clients. Through their respective 
work, ERM and eVision have a deep understanding of the oil and gas, 
(petro)chemical, energy, and pharmaceutical industries, as well as the 
business and technical aspects required for successful deployment 
and adoption of safety critical software solutions.
“We have been working with clients around the world for nearly 50 
years, across a broad range of industry sectors, helping them to 
understand and manage their environmental, health and safety, risk, 
and social impacts. As a global market leader in digital control of  
work solutions for oil and gas, chemical and other high-risk industries, 
focused on operational excellence and process safety, eVision is 
an ideal partner for ERM. We are delighted to add eVision to the 
ecosystem of trusted partners we have been collaborating with to 
better serve our clients on their digital journey,” says Shawn Doherty, 
ERM’s Global Head of Digital Business and Transformation.
ERM is also a long-standing partner of Enablon , provider of 
environmental, health and safety, sustainability and risk management 
software. eVision forms a unit with Enablon within Wolters Kluwer.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION4040
Microsoft recognizes 
ERM’s digital journeyCase Study
Microsoft has worked with ERM on our journey to work faster, better, 
and safer through technology, and recognized the impact of that 
journey in a recent case study. In this October 2018 case study, 
Microsoft emphasizes the importance of connecting our entire 
business to be more efficient while meeting our clients’ high standards 
for data security. 
Having the tools in place to collaborate, harness data, and streamline 
operations keeps us on the leading edge of technology innovation 
and allows us to continue delivering excellent client value, ultimately 
accelerating the positive, global impact of the work we do.
Learn more
READ THE FULL CASE STUDY
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION4141
Harnessing 
digitalization to 
enhance reportingCase Study
ERM is working with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and a group 
of companies to explore different aspects of sustainability reporting 
and identify ways in which digital technologies can help. GRI’s 
Corporate Leadership Group on Digital Reporting seeks answers to 
common digitalization and data management issues that corporations 
producing sustainability reports face today. 
In the constantly evolving reporting ecosystems, with growing 
challenges in how to produce and analyze data, ERM is helping to find 
opportunities and understand the potential for aligning the data that 
companies produce with user demands. 
Learn more
SHAPE THE FUTURE  
OF DIGITAL REPORTING
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSTECH-ENABLED INNOVATION42
42Companies increasingly recognize the circular economy  
as a key business opportunity. Important stakeholders, 
including investors and consumers, are pressing companies 
to take a comprehensive look at their value chains for 
opportunities to transform their business model. 
ERM partners with clients and world-leading organizations to 
deliver solutions and advance the circular economy. Successful 
participation in the circular economy requires clear objectives and 
commitment. ERM facilitates work by coalitions and individual 
companies to effect large-scale changes that make sustainability 
part of their culture and purpose.Circular economy
Learn more
MORE ABOUT THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY…a circular economy aims to redefine growth, focusing on positive 
society-wide benefits. It entails gradually decoupling economic 
activity from the consumption of finite resources, and designing 
waste out of the system. Underpinned by a transition to renewable 
energy sources, the circular model builds economic, natural, and 
social capital. It is based on three principles: 
 
•  Design out waste and pollution
• Keep products and materials in use
•  Regenerate natural systems
Source:  WBCSD CEO Guide to the Circular Economy 
Source:  The Ellen MacArthur Foundation
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY
At their core, circular economy principles promote greater efficiency 
in material use, reducing system losses, addressing material scarcity 
and reducing environmental harm.4343
Helping Novartis 
phaseout single-use 
plasticsCase Study
In May 2018, Novartis approved a new environmental sustainability 
strategy that includes a phaseout of single-use plastics at all its 
campuses and offices. To help implement this phaseout, ERM 
developed a toolkit that provides guidance on how each of the 
company’s locations can reduce its reliance on plastic and ultimately 
eliminate single-use plastic.
With plastics accumulating across the globe – harming the oceans 
and other ecosystems along with technical, political and social 
limitations on recycling plastics – taking action now to reduce single-
use plastics positions Novartis ahead of the curve with respect to 
government, consumer and customer demands for action.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY4444
Sustainable mining in 
the age of circularityCase Study
ERM facilitated a distinguished panel of senior business leaders 
across the mining industry in February 2019 on Sustainable Mining in 
the Age of Circularity & the Low-Carbon Economy during the annual 
Investing in African Mining Indaba. The panel members included 
Mathias Dohrn, Senior Vice President – Global precious & Base Metals 
Services, BASF; Mike Fraser, Chief Operating Officer, South 32; Chris 
Griffith, Chief Executive Officer, Anglo American Platinum; and Simone 
Niven, Group Executive, Corporate Relations, Rio Tinto.
The urgency to move to a low-carbon economy is driving a renewed 
demand for certain metals: battery minerals, critical components of 
turbines, solar panels, electricity transmission, and lightweight metals. 
At the same time, we are only now beginning to debate what it means 
to source – at scale – alternative materials like metal substitutes or 
stock supplied from the circular economy.
There is also increasing market scrutiny of the metals’ supply chain, 
and mining companies may have new opportunities to differentiate  on characteristics beyond mineral grade and cost, but only if they  
can demonstrate that their mining practices are more sustainable  
than those of competitors.
We see an increasing imperative for mining companies to strike 
a balance between commercial growth and expectations of 
environmental, social and governance management. Integral to 
this reality is engaging across the product lifecycle by optimizing 
the supply chain from mine to market, gaining clarity on mining’s 
contribution to the product ecosystem, and positioning mining so 
it can take advantage of the opportunities of the transition to a low-
carbon economy.
The session was facilitated by ERM Partner Jonathan Molyneux,  
who heads our collaboration with our mining clients to advance  
the sector’s thinking about sustainable mining and the changes  
in leadership, measurement and governance.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY4545
US BCSD promotes 
culture shift to 
circular economyCase Study
As a member of the US Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (US BCSD), ERM helped to develop a strategy for 
environmentally beneficial reuse of plastics. In the pilot project, plastic 
bottles from the New Orleans Jazz Festival were processed at US 
facilities to make a matrix, which is used in ecosystem restoration  
for plantings to preserve marshes in Louisiana. 
ERM also served as a strategic advisor for development and 
implementation of Materials Marketplace (MM), a facilitated 
transaction platform that connects businesses to develop and scale 
new reuse and recycling market opportunities. The online platform  
helps divert waste from landfills while generating cost and energy 
savings and creating new jobs and business opportunities. 
Ohio, Tennessee and Michigan are sponsoring the MM in partnership 
with US BCSD. Israel and Turkey are also running the MM, and 
Vietnam is developing the program in partnership with US BCSD.
ERM also contributed to passage of a water trading legislation as 
part of the Louisiana Water Synergy project, which is now in rule 
making mode. ERM is part of the US BCSD team that is replicating the 
Louisiana Water Synergy Project in Texas and the Great Lakes region.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY4646
Roadmap to 
eliminate plastics 
from supply chainCase Study
This past year, ERM worked with a confidential media company 
to provide an assessment of single-use plastics across its global 
supply chain. ERM devised and executed a robust data collection 
process targeting product and service vendors, as well as licensed 
partners serving the organization’s complex operations. Working in 
close coordination with operational and sustainability leaders, ERM 
developed a tailored roadmap and action plan, outlining the steps the 
organization could take to systematically eliminate single-use plastics 
from the supply chain in the coming years. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY4747
Former brownfield to 
store renewable energy Case Study
The Goldendale Energy Storage Project will provide renewable 
sources of electricity in the US Pacific Northwest (wind and solar 
power) with backup storage. Renewable electricity, when not needed 
by electrical customers in Oregon and Washington, will be used to 
pump water from a lower reservoir to the upper reservoir. The project 
will store renewable energy in the form of water in this upper reservoir 
more than 2,000 feet above a lower reservoir. When there is increased 
consumer demand for renewable electricity, the power is released in 
the form of water from the upper reservoir through turbines that can 
generate up to 1,200 megawatts at peak. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY48
Case Study: Former brownfield to store renewable energy
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSThe Goldendale site is a former aluminum smelter. The project 
will require the removal of a landfill as the material is unsuitable for 
reservoir construction. The project will benefit multiple stakeholders: 
the site owners, who will no longer need to monitor the former landfill; 
the responsible parties, who no longer need to pay for monitoring; 
the county, as the project will bring in jobs and revenue; and the 
environment, as groundwater issues will be diminished with the 
removal of the landfill. This area of the US has seen a rapid expansion in large scale data 
center development. Data centers require a considerable amount  
of power and their industry has come to expect that 100% of their 
power will come from non-fossil fuel based sources of electricity.  
The Goldendale project will facilitate additional data center development 
in the region by providing a firm 24/7 source of renewable electricity, 
while assisting with the region’s decarbonization goals.CIRCULAR ECONOMY4949
Due diligence for 
responsible sourcing  
at MondiCase Study
ERM helped provide input and expertise to Mondi as part of an 
update of their Responsible Procurement and third party supplier 
review process. Some aspects of the project are described in the 
Mondi Group Sustainable Development Report  2018. The 
updated system will be piloted in 2019.
“When we set out to develop our group-wide responsible 
procurement programme, it was really important to us to start with 
a risk-based approach, and to prioritise action where it was most 
needed in our supply chain. With ERM’s knowledge and experience 
in global supply chains, we had the right partner to develop the tools 
to achieve this. They supported us in mapping our supply chain and 
developing a methodology for screening our suppliers for human 
rights and labour, environment and climate change, and water 
risks; and helped create a platform for engaging with our suppliers 
to address these. Their expertise and experience was key to the 
success of this programme.”
Gladys Naylor  
Group Head of Sustainable Development - Mondi Group
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5050
Human rights review 
of supply chain in 
North AfricaCase Study
ERM worked with a private equity investor to review potential human 
rights issues associated with its investment in a confidential paper 
recycling plant in North Africa. The plant had a number of potential 
human rights issues in its supply chain, particularly in relation to 
significant numbers of informal workers. 
ERM visited the site as well as its potential suppliers, and spoke with 
management and both formal and informal workers. In this way, 
we are able to identify the potential human rights risks and build 
management awareness of why these risks must be addressed.  
Then we helped develop actions to remediate the risks, allowing  
the investment to have a positive impact.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5151
Changing landscape with 
human rights and businessCase Study
The landscape is changing with respect to scrutiny on company’s 
supply chains and subcontractor management. A strong human rights 
record has become imperative to maintaining a corporate “license to 
operate.” Several emerging themes apply across nearly all sectors: 
eliminating modern slavery, moving towards living wages in supply 
chains, eliminating workplace gender-based violence, the gig economy’s 
eroding social safety net, artificial intelligence making human workers 
obsolete and even (still) child labor. Organizations are pushing for social 
protections for workers in the transition to a low-carbon economy, and 
high-tech companies in particular face growing human rights scrutiny.
ERM has extensive experience developing and implementing social and 
human rights due diligence programs in a wide variety of sectors and 
geographies. As a first step, we help companies develop appropriate 
governance arrangements and assess risk in their supply chain 
to prioritise focus. We then work with clients to develop and apply 
monitoring and capacity building programmes for suppliers, including 
through audits and...
•  Training programs that enhance human rights capacity and draw 
attention to the need for responsible purchasing practices;
•  Setting up and maintaining grievance and traceability mechanisms; 
•  Engaging with key stakeholders.
With our supply chain and social consulting services, ERM is helping 
companies protect and improve their reputations while managing 
business continuity risks and enhancing performance while contributing 
to improved lives of workers and their families. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5252
Human rights  
due diligenceCase Study
Since 2017, ERM has supported a major energy company’s human 
rights/modern slavery due diligence and remediation program as  
part of the client’s Modern Slavery Act commitments in the UK.  
ERM developed a best practice approach to identify and assess 
human rights performance in high risk geographies, enabling our  
client to identify risks, prioritize their due diligence activities and 
respond to stakeholders.
In line with the UN Guiding Principles approach to human rights 
due diligence, ERM supported various internal teams to prioritize 
and manage their risks. ERM provided technical support to various 
team members to manage labor assessments, including guidance 
on reports interpretation, compliance action plan development, 
monitoring and plans for follow-up verification of improvement and 
remedy around the world. 
We provided support for the development of guidance documents 
on responsible sourcing good practices, mostly focusing on modern 
slavery related topics. We also supported the development and 
implementation of tools for supply chain labor standards monitoring, 
including social audit protocols and monitoring systems.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5353
Microbeads  
in Hong KongCase Study
The Environmental Protection Department of the Hong Kong 
Government commissioned ERM to study microplastic pollution.  
In particular, ERM examined the prevalence of plastic microbeads  
in personal care and cosmetics products (PCCPs) in the Hong Kong 
market, with a view to introducing control measures for microbeads 
pollution in Hong Kong. The key driver behind the project is protection 
of the environment and human health.
 ERM undertook a literature review of scientific and academic opinions 
on the impact of microbeads to the environment. We also conducted 
a market survey of products containing microbeads in Hong Kong and 
carried out extensive stakeholder engagement regarding the potential 
impacts from implementing control measures for consumers and the 
PCCP market.
As a result of this study EPD will establish a framework to help reduce 
the use of microbeads in PCCPs. 
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5454
Supporting WBCSD  
and Alliance to End 
Plastic WasteCase Study
ERM Principal Consultant Stefano Pennese is seconded at the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in Geneva, 
Switzerland. He is working with the plastics team on the Global 
Information Platform, one of the projects of the Alliance to End 
Plastic Waste .
The goal of the Alliance is to eliminate plastic waste in the oceans by 
reducing, and possibly stopping, the plastic leakage from the human 
economy to the environment. The focus of the Global Information 
Platform is to develop a global database of plastic waste leakage point 
hotspots, so that those in the plastic value chain (local and regional 
authorities, Alliance’s member companies, etc.) can make better-
informed decisions on how and where to invest capital and operational 
expenditures to provide solutions.
During his secondment, Stefano has conducted a landscape analysis 
to understand what similar plastic waste data-related initiatives are 
already underway, and evaluate which of these initiatives would likely 
partner with the Alliance. Stefano is also bringing his digital services 
expertise to the Alliance by gathering user requirements in order to 
determine the functional and technical requirements that the Global 
Information Platform will need to fulfill.
The WBCSD is recruiting companies and organizations to join the 
Alliance as members, and also engaging with the Alliance members 
on internal and external communications.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5555
Full material disclosure 
and conflict minerals 
supportCase Study
ERM is developing a customized program for a Fortune 500 
technology company driving product regulatory and conflict minerals 
compliance by running a full material disclosure program for its 
products, parts and suppliers. Using a team of experts in product 
stewardship, disclosure requirements and data analytics, ERM is 
handling tens of thousands of Full Material Declaration submittals 
annually and hundreds of conflict minerals submissions from suppliers. 
We work directly with the client’s most important customers, delivering 
targeted reports and data using industry-standard and customer-
specific reporting formats
The client can now refocus its efforts to other areas of their business, 
knowing its regulatory compliance needs are being managed by ERM.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5656
Supporting tech 
sector operations 
and productsCase Study
ERM works with several major technology companies to improve  
their operations and products across their life cycle, including:
•  Co-development of responsible electronics recycling 
standard:  ERM was contracted to help the client develop and 
implement a compliance and risk-based program to manage 
new emerging global business around responsible takeback and 
recycling of electronic waste. ERM co-developed an internal auditing 
standard for responsible electronics recycling, followed by R2 
(responsible recycling) certification and an annual audit program.  
As a result, the confidential client effectively mitigated its business 
risk for more than 10 years. ERM has continued to provide 
programmatic support to this client through recycler verification 
and management. Through our efforts, the client has better 
transparency and oversight of its downstream vendor supply chain.
•  Next generation product and packaging compliance for 
global communications company:  A confidential client sought 
to launch a new consumer electronics product in more than 20 
jurisdictions simultaneously. ERM mobilized our global network of 
product stewards to assess regulations for consumer protection 
and waste management and interpret them in light of the company’s 
novel products --- unforeseen by those writing the regulations 
--- and the design aesthetic which is an important part of the company’s brand image, ERM enabled the company to meet 
labeling requirements for the initial launch deadlines and is now 
working to provide a tool to make compliance more routine.
•  Risk management for resource recovery:  ERM is helping this 
confidential client to assure itself that materials recovered from end-
of-life consumer electronics are appropriately managed by auditing 
recycling vendors. E-waste is a growing issue for all manufacturers 
and users of electronics, and the risks to our client associated with 
collection, management, security and disposition pose significant 
brand, reputational and EHS risks to their business. By supporting 
our client programmatically, ERM has successfully streamlined 
auditing and reporting practices, and is currently working to 
drive program value over time. This enables our client to manage 
business risk and support brand management. 
•  Full materials disclosure for confidential technology client:  
ERM has developed and implemented a data collection and 
reporting program to identify the chemical composition of all parts 
and materials in products for a confidential technology client. As 
a result of this project, the client achieved a full chemical picture 
of its products so that design teams can re-evaluate and select 
alternative materials. The client uses this information in their external 
sustainability report and on their website to demonstrate progress 
toward their corporate sustainability goals.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY5757
Helping to manage 
mining legacies for  
BHP siteCase Study
The BHP Island Copper site on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, 
continues to be an example of excellence in mine reclamation. The site 
was the recipient of the 1981, 1984, 1998 and 2006 British Columbia 
Mine Reclamation Award. In awarding the Island Copper team with 
the 2006 award, the government and academic panel stated that 
the company’s management of the Island Copper site is exemplary 
with respect to safety, innovation, risk management and the quality of 
reclamation and environmental protection work.
ERM supported BHP in the development, management and 
monitoring of the mining pit lake at the Island Copper site, where acid 
rock drainage is a long-term issue. We developed a phytoremediation 
approach as an alternative to conventional lime treatment, reducing 
long-term closure costs while mitigating risks associated with metal 
leaching and acid rock drainage at the site.
IMPACT WITH CLIENTSCIRCULAR ECONOMY58
Each year, ERM conducts a formal materiality assessment 
in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
standard to identify and prioritize our most significant 
sustainability topics, set targets for improvement, and  
guide the content for our Sustainability Report.OperationsImpact from
BACK TO CONTENTS59
In this section, we describe our programs, practices and 
performance  for managing four of our six material topics – that 
is, ERM’s most important sustainability issues, confirmed through 
ERM’s stakeholder engagement process , materiality 
assessment  and senior-management review:  
•  Governance
•  Occupational health and safety
•  Our people
•  Climate change
We discuss our other two material topics – innovating with clients 
and other leading organizations , and contributing to society 
and local communities  – in this report under the section on 
Impact through collaboration . ERM’s operations have relatively small impacts in many measures. 
However, we are committed to continuous improvement in reducing 
our own impact, regardless of scale, is important for staff at ERM as 
we are committed to “walking the talk” in our own operations.
•  Governance  – Good corporate governance is essential to the 
financial success and sustainability of ERM
•  Occupational health and safety  – The most important role for 
all ERM’s leaders is to keep everyone safe
•  Our people  – Our ability to attract, develop, reward and retain 
talented employees is central to our business strategy and vital to 
our future
•  Climate change  – Our approach to climate-related risk has a 
direct impact on ERM’s financial health, reputation and our ability 
to retain and attract talent
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS60
Why governance is a material topic for ERM:
Good corporate governance is essential to the financial success  
and sustainability of ERM. Without adequate systems and 
practices, we would lose the trust of our company’s stakeholders: 
shareholders and investors, management and employees, clients, 
suppliers and contractors, governments, nongovernmental 
organizations and the communities in which we operate.  
We conduct business with uncompromising honesty and integrity, 
adhering to laws, regulations, and our written Code of Conduct.
•  Management and oversight  – Our approach to corporate 
governance
•  Ethical and responsible decision making  – Our Global Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics sets clear requirements to ensure 
we conduct business with uncompromising honesty, integrity and 
compliance with laws and regulations
•  Integrity in financial reporting – ERM has rigorous financial 
processes to meet requirements of operation
•  Recognize and manage risks  – In accordance with our 
commitment to continuous improvement, over the past year 
we evaluated the effectiveness of our management approach 
to governance by conducting a formal operational risk 
assessmentbeyond as well as progress toward maximizing  
our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
KPI highlight
FY19 Target
No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for 
material noncompliance with laws or 
regulations.
Result
No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for 
material noncompliance with laws or 
regulations.Governance
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSGOVERNANCE61
Management and oversight
 
The Board of Directors and Executive Committee are ERM’s highest 
governing bodies. They are responsible for the strategic direction of 
the organization and the effective monitoring of performance. 
The ERM Board of Directors is responsible for the direction and 
oversight of ERM Worldwide Group Limited (as parent company 
of the ERM Group) on behalf of its stakeholders, including 
shareholders. The Board meets at least six times per year to  
review performance and consider key strategic growth plans.  
In addition, Board subcommittees provide oversight of audit, 
risk and remuneration. The Board delegates its authority for the 
executive management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive 
Officer and, through her, to the Executive Committee (subject to 
defined limits and monitoring by the Board).
ERM’s Executive Committee members are responsible for the 
strategic and operational leadership and management of the 
business. The Executive Committee meets monthly to discuss 
operational performance and to ensure key strategic growth 
initiatives are being implemented effectively.
ERM uses authority matrices to provide the framework for all 
decision-making and policies related to corporate governance. 
These include approval levels for corporate governance and  
project contracts. 
For information on the governance of ERM’s sustainability program, 
see Sustainability at ERM .
Ethical and responsible 
decision-making
 
We place significant focus on governance issues, from the Board to 
our Partners and all employees.
•  Upon joining the company, all new employees must participate, 
through the company’s learning and development platform the 
ERM Academy, in interactive, web-based training. The mandatory 
training courses cover international anti-bribery and corruption,  
the regulatory requirements specified by the UK Bribery Act, 
insider trading and practical ethics, as well as requirements 
specific to some parts of Latin America and North America,  
health and safety, and the UK Modern Slavery Act.
•  Existing employees are required to take refresher web-based 
training through the ERM Academy.
•  Every Partner must complete an annual self-certification on 
compliance with our anti-bribery and corruption policies.
•  Outside legal counsel advises the Board on how to operate 
effectively and in accordance with its roles and responsibilities.
Our written Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
sets clear requirements to ensure we conduct business with 
uncompromising honesty, integrity and compliance with laws and 
regulations. Our commitment to combat bribery and corruption 
is fundamental to how we operate and is embedded into our key 
systems and programs. We apply our business conduct and ethics 
commitments across every ERM office and activity, every day, with 
the involvement and awareness of all our employees. All employees 
and Partners are held responsible for compliance with our Code  
and policies.
For more on the location of anti-bribery and 
corruption-related disclosures in this report, 
see our UN Global Compact Index , which 
includes details of our reporting on Principle 
10, Anti-Corruption.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS62
PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES  
During FY19, we continued to strengthen our programs  
and initiatives associated with business conduct and ethics:
•  We developed and deployed a mandatory online training module 
for all employees regarding modern slavery, pertinent to our 
specific industry and operations.
•  We revised our internal policies and procedures on subcontractor 
management. We continue to expand and improve subcontractor 
management in the many jurisdictions where we operate.
•  We participated in building external standards and providing 
education so that momentum not only builds in our sphere of 
business influence but beyond, fully aligned with our purpose 
of shaping a more sustainable future with the world’s leading 
organizations. 
•  We launched a global anonymous reporting system (helpline) so 
that concerns about our business operations, including modern 
slavery and any other form of unethical business conduct, can 
be reported without fear of retaliation. The system is available 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week, by a web portal or call-in line, and is 
managed by a third party to protect confidentiality.
Integrity in financial reporting
 
Our Finance team manages all areas of finance and corporate 
finance for ERM worldwide and works closely with ERM’s 
management and partners, investors and the group’s bankers,  
and other suppliers and stakeholders to drive for continual 
operational excellence.
The ERM group follows UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(GAAP). Many business units will also be required to file financial 
statements with the local tax authorities, prepared in accordance 
with local GAAP. 
ERM has a zero tolerance approach to all forms of tax evasion in 
all countries. We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and 
with integrity on all tax matters resulting from business dealings and 
relationships in all countries. We are also committed to implementing 
and enforcing effective systems to counter any form of tax evasion.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS63
Recognize and manage risks
 
In accordance with our commitment to continuous improvement, 
over the past year we evaluated the effectiveness of our 
management approach to governance by conducting a formal 
operational risk assessment that addressed a full range of issues, 
including safety, our people, subcontractor management and project 
management, among others. The results of the assessment were 
incorporated into the formal risk register. Action items to reduce 
operational risk were identified and approved by the Executive 
Committee and the Board as part of the annual three-year strategic 
growth plan and budget.
We exercise judgment with respect to clients and third parties we 
engage with and the types of work we undertake. We will not work 
with clients or subcontractors who do not share our commitment to 
high ethical standards; we have turned down project opportunities 
because of concerns involving human rights violations and other 
ethical issues.
We scrutinize opportunities and projects carefully before proceeding 
and reserve the right to withdraw from a project if business conduct 
and ethics concerns arise.
We apply similar rigor to the activities of the ERM Foundation and 
are careful to avoid any potential ethical or compliance concerns 
associated with those organizations that we support.
Our systems enable ERM employees to confirm quickly that third 
parties are not on government watch lists for corruption, bribery or 
human rights violations. We have committed to following the trade 
sanctions established by the European Union and the United States, 
as well as the United Nations.In addition:
•  We continue to conduct geographic corruption risk assessments 
focused on high-risk areas and encompassing modern slavery risk.
•  We track compliance with mandatory employee training on bribery, 
anti-corruption and modern slavery. Because it is imperative 
that newly hired employees are aware of our expectations for 
business conduct and ethics, we have included this in our FY20 
sustainability performance targets .
SUBCONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT  
Our Task Force on Critical and Operational Risk Management 
conducted a systematic review of our subcontractor management 
systems, process, procedures, governance and safety culture. This 
helped us understand where there are gaps between what is written 
down, what is intended, and what is understood and implemented  
in practice, and the underlying reasons for these gaps. 
As part of this, we asked 350 employees from all over the world who 
regularly use subcontractors for their views and ideas, and we also 
consulted with a number of subject matter experts who offered  
their assistance. 
The Task Force identified a number of subcontractor-related 
activities that, if not properly planned and delivered, can result  
in serious risk to multiple stakeholder groups. In accordance with 
consolidated Task Force findings, we made several improvements 
to subcontractor management at ERM, including the launch of 
a comprehensive subcontractor policy and tools to support the 
implementation of the Policy.DATA SECURITY  
Our first layer of protection is our people. ERM employees 
understand their responsibilities in protecting both our data  
and information and that of our clients.
Data stored on ERM computers and systems are secured by 
multiple defensive layers, and we ensure data is protected in 
transit. We also back up data regularly to ensure that recovery is 
possible in the event of a disaster. ERM partners with leading cloud-
based providers for its critical services, and we benefit from their 
inherent robust reliability and user productivity, with security being 
continuously updated and enhanced.
ERM has developed appropriate policies, processes and procedures 
as necessary to comply with the EU’s General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) requirements.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS64
Sustainability-related 
policiesCase Study
Policies play an important role in ERM’s management of 
sustainability challenges, in particular are material topics.  
These policies are approved by the Group CEO, with prescribed 
schedules for review. All are available on www.erm.com.
•  Global Sustainability Policy:  This policy defines the company’s 
role in supporting social and economic development that meets 
the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their own needs. Download ERM’s Global 
Sustainability Policy  and ERM’s Sustainability Approach .
•  Supplier/Subcontractor Business Conduct Information 
Form:  Suppliers and subcontractors of ERM provide information 
concerning their company and business conduct practices, 
using the form at the link below. Download ERM’s Global 
Requirements for Suppliers and Subcontractors .
•  Modern Slavery Act Statement: The purpose of this policy  
is to support international efforts against slavery, child labor and 
human trafficking in conformance with the ERM Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015, and  
other applicable international laws. Download ERM’s Slavery,  
Child Labor and Human Trafficking Policy and Modern 
Slavery Act Statement .
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSGOVERNANCE
65
Case Study: Sustainability-related policies
•  Global Diversity Policy:  We believe our most important 
strength is our employees. Due to our principles of Respect 
and Collaboration, ERM is committed to diversity and to equal 
opportunity in all aspects of employment. We seek to provide 
a work environment where all employees have the opportunity 
to reach their full potential and contribute to ERM’s success. 
Our objective is for the diversity of our employees to reflect the 
diversity of the communities in which we do business, and for 
ERM to respect the customs and cultures of those communities. 
Download ERM’s Global Diversity Policy .
•  ERM Global Policy on Insider Trading: The purpose of 
the Insider Trading Policy is to provide support with securities 
legislation globally regarding material, non-public information. 
Download ERM’s Insider Trading Policy .
•  Data Privacy Policy: ERM is committed to protecting the privacy 
of personal data and maintaining the principles of integrity and 
trust in the course of our business. We therefore implemented our 
Data Privacy program around the globe. That program consists 
of ERM’s Data Privacy Policy, along with related personal data 
policies and procedures, all of which complies with the EU  
General Data Protection Regulation. In our Data Privacy Policy,  
we describe: the kinds of personal data that we may collect;  
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONShow we may collect and use that data; the lawful purposes for 
which we may process personal data; and how we may share  
data across different locations. The Policy also sets out data 
protection rights and offers information on how to contact us  
with questions or queries about personal data. Download ERM’s 
Data Privacy Policy .
•  Global Tax Policy: ERM recognizes that the tax it pays and 
collects is an important part of the Group’s wider economic and 
social impact, and that this plays a key role in the development  
of the countries where it operates. The purpose of this policy is  
to communicate the framework in which tax is managed within 
ERM. Download ERM’s Global Tax Policy .
•  Global Mobile Phone Policy: This policy establishes a global 
standard regarding the prohibition of use of any Mobile/Cell 
phones, Computers and all other Personal Digital Assistants 
or similar electronic devices (PDAs) while operating a personal, 
company-owned or rental vehicle as part of the Company’s 
Health and Safety requirements. In addition, this policy clarifies 
ERM’s position in respect of any devices used for navigation while 
operating vehicles as set out above. Download ERM’s Mobile 
Phone Policy .66
Human rights and 
Modern Slavery ActCase Study
ERM is committed to the goal of respect for human rights and a 
world free of slavery. We recognize our responsibility to support  
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 
rights, as defined by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. ERM is a signatory of the UN Global Compact,  
and we adhere to its principles relating to human rights. 
ERM has participated in a number of external engagements related 
to modern slavery, including the Working Group on Modern Slavery 
facilitated by the UK chapter of the United Nations Global Compact 
and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) activities related to human rights. ERM has been involved 
with the WBCSD in the development of the CEO Guide for Human 
Rights, and Keryn James has signed on as a supportive CEO.
In addition, because we are a commercial organization that 
conducts business in the United Kingdom, we comply with the UK 
Modern Slavery Act 2015. In November 2018, ERM released our 
third Statement on Modern Slavery. It reflects our commitment to 
international efforts to abolish all forms of modern slavery and sets 
out the measures to ensure there is no slavery and human trafficking 
in our business operations and supply chain.CASE STUDY
Our Modern Slavery Statement provides an overview of the 
approach and tools we have in place to prevent modern slavery in 
our business and supply chains and describes the specific actions 
that we have taken in the past fiscal year, including new mandatory 
training launched in 2019. To learn more, download ERM’s 2018 
Statement on Modern Slavery .
ERM’s Slavery, Child Labor and Human Trafficking Policy aligns 
with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Our policy prohibits the use 
of child or forced labor or involvement by ERM with entities that 
support prohibited labor practices, including slavery, bonded labor 
or debt-bondage and other types of coercion or corruption.
We developed specific global requirements for suppliers and 
subcontractors  as part of our supply chain process, with explicit 
requirements in relation to modern slavery concerns.
In addition to making this commitment within our own business, 
we work with our clients globally to improve their human rights 
practices. Our social and human rights consulting services teams 
identify and provide advice on labor, supply chain management, 
land access and indigenous rights issues.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSGOVERNANCE67
Occupational health and safety
Why occupational health and safety is a material topic  
for ERM:
The most important role for all ERM’s leaders is to keep everyone 
safe. We have company procedures and protocols to support our 
efforts, and we recognize active leadership as the most important 
element. However, it does not start nor end with ERM’s leaders – 
everyone has a responsibility for doing the safest work possible. If 
we cannot operate safely and without incident, then we cannot live 
up to our values. This is driven by our belief in the culture of caring 
about the well-being of our people, our clients and our contractors.
We have a responsibility to do everything we can to assure that 
everyone is safe while working at or on behalf of ERM.
The safety and health of our people, and others under our control, 
is at the core of the way we do business. It must come first – every 
time and everywhere.
 
•  Health, safety and environment policy  – We place an 
extraordinary focus on health and safety performance 
•  Safety management system  - ERM has a mature and 
comprehensive SMS 
•  Promoting well-being at work  - Well-being is integral to 
maintaining a healthy, engaged, energized and productive 
workforce
KPI highlight
FY19 Target
Days away from work case (DAWC) rate 
at or below 0.10 and no fatalities.
Result
Annual DAWC rate 0.17 and no fatalities.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY68
Health, Safety and 
Environment Policy
 
We place an extraordinary focus on health and safety performance. 
We provide health and safety systems, processes, equipment and 
training for all ERM employees, enabling our work to be performed 
in a responsible manner. Every ERM employee and contractor is 
required to be an active participant in managing the safe execution 
of our work.
ERM has a health and safety program that focuses on the ongoing 
health and safety of everyone involved in and impacted by our  
work - including ERM employees, clients, contractors, as well  
as communities and the public local to our program sites.
We recognize that our daily actions - whether they are performed 
at ERM offices, remote project sites, industrial facilities, active 
construction sites or from employees’ homes - require diligent 
and comprehensive planning and management to achieve our 
ultimate goal of ZERO harm. Our global tools and systems support 
continuous improvement as we work on complex projects, often  
in increasingly challenging environments. We bring our health  
and safety expertise to every project, regardless of size.
Download
ERM’S HEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENT POLICY STATEMENT
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS69
Safety Management System
 
ERM has a mature and comprehensive Safety Management 
System (SMS), which incorporates safety-related policies, roles and 
responsibilities, training, programs and initiatives and mechanisms 
to measure the effectiveness of our management approach. The 
SMS is based on the requirements of Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment Specification (OHSAS) 18001 and International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001.
Key aspects of our SMS are highlighted below.
•  Our global tools and systems support continuous improvement  
as we work on complex projects, often in challenging 
environments. Our global Health, Safety and Environment 
(HSE) Policy Statement, which is endorsed by our Group CEO 
and Executive Committee, applies worldwide and is conveyed 
to all employees through our induction programs and routine 
communications.
•  ERM Partners and other leaders have personal safety goals 
included in their performance metrics, with progress against these 
goals assessed as part of the annual performance review process.
•  During FY19, ERM completed nearly 3,115 individual office, project, 
field or subsurface clearance audits using our online tool, with 
nearly 1,950 of those audits completed by Partners. The audits are part of our Active Leadership Audit Program (ALAP), and they 
provide us with a tremendous amount of safety performance data 
that allows us to focus on specific areas for improvement. 
•  New hires are required to take safety training as well as anti-
bribery, corruption and ethics training. Compliance with this 
requirements is shared with senior management. In FY19, over 
93% of new hires completed their mandatory training on time in  
a record year for new hires. In FY20, we are focused on improving 
this rate.
•  Travel is a key part of the work we do for our clients and an 
important part of running the business. We provide health and 
safety support for our employees traveling around the world.  
This is particularly important in more challenging locations, 
including those classified as high risk based on medical, integrity, 
political or security factors. We provide time-critical advice in 
response to travel and acute medical issues around the globe.  
Our online Travel Risk Assessments help ensure that employees 
and those we work with are well prepared for their journey, and 
that our Partners review and approve this travel.
•  ERM’s Executive Committee members receive daily reports  
on key safety performance metrics as part of their management 
dashboards. Safety metrics appear alongside other key business 
indicators, such as sales, revenue and profits.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS70
Promoting well-being  
at work
 
Well-being is integral to maintaining a health, engaged, energized 
and productive workforce. ERM’s approach to employee well-being 
builds on our company values, in particular caring for our people: we 
look after our people, their safety, well-being and development. We 
also treat each other with respect.We share information globally on 
managing stress and supporting colleagues in the workplace
Our business sometimes demands long hours, frequent or extended 
travel, and deadline pressures. Within this context, ERM strives to 
maintain an appropriate work-life balance for its employees:
•  We provide flexible working arrangements where feasible, 
supported by technology, and we will continue to ensure we are 
meeting the needs of our employees in the years ahead. Flexibility 
is often cited as an attractive reason for working at ERM
•  We encourage wellness activities, with many of our offices 
implementing initiatives, such as gym memberships, team sports, 
recognition of special family days and fresh fruit supplies.
Some office-level initiatives from ERM employees over the past  
year include:
•  Taking time for a meditation moment at our Lima, Peru, office;•  Organizing a lunchtime walk break with co-workers in Sacramento, 
California, US;
•  Celebrating oral health day at our office in Jakarta, Indonesia;
•  Jogging 5 kilometers with colleagues during lunch breaks at the 
Frankfurt, Germany, office; 
•  Taking ergonomic breaks and using the stairs instead of the 
elevator in our office in Ahmedabad, India; and
•  Organizing a Wellness Day in our office in Johannesburg,  
South Africa
We recently established a working group in our Europe, Middle  
East and Africa region to improve staff well-being and provide better 
psycho-social support. We also featured mental health awareness 
was an important element of our Hidden Disabilities inclusion 
activities during January 2019.
For FY20, ERM has adopted a new global target: to improve the 
Employee Engagement Survey well-being question score from the 
baseline by 10%. For more information, see our future targets and 
goals  section.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS71
Awards and recognitionCase Study
ERM encourages participation in our own safety recognition 
program, which highlights employees who have demonstrated an 
outstanding contribution to the company and our safety program. 
We also receive recognition from our clients for safety behaviors, 
actions and results. Selected awards from the past year include:
•  Our United Kingdom and Ireland operations have achieved five 
consecutive years of Gold Medal Awards from The Royal Society 
for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA).
•  The Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association presented ERM  
with its Distinguished Safety Performance Award in May 2018.
•  Our team in Mexico received an award from BP marking 2018  
with no health and safety incidents of any kind. 
•  ERM’s North American regional health and safety team accepted 
37 safety awards from the National Safety Council. These awards 
recognized ERM’s hazard recognition processes as well as the 
number of safe hours our business units have completed.CASE STUDY
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY72
Active Leadership 
Audit ProgramCase Study
The Active Leadership Audit Program allows our employees to 
periodically and consciously stop and assess the activities that  
they are responsible for (or routinely observe), with respect to safety.
The goal is to drive engagement with colleagues specifically 
around the topic of safety. While this type of engagement occurs 
continuously in the background, there is value to formalizing and 
structuring the assessment.
ERM has five types of audits that can be completed, depending on 
the type of activities that an employee is typically engaged in. The 
completion of each audit is documented using a specific, online form 
to ensure:
•  Audit scope and rigor is globally consistent.
•  The auditor is prompted to consider key safety topics and 
elements (some of which they may not have considered before).CASE STUDY
•  Audit results are globally accessible in real-time and consolidated 
to identify future focus areas and trends.
Audits are a leading indicator that can be used as one measure of 
Safety performance, and can be done by all employees. However, 
the completion of these audits by Partners is intended to add 
additional value to their projects, by:
•  Allowing them to gain insight into details of project operations;
•  Identifying areas of improvement for the audited project, as well as 
the Partner’s other projects; and,
•  Reinforcing the safety message to the project team through action 
in addition to words.to identify future focus areas and trends.
The Engagement Score is used as a positive and sustainable 
approach to engaging our employees in the program.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY73
Safety AT ERMCase Study
Safety AT ERM is not only a set of five key elements that define  
our Health and Safety program – it is also a tagline and mantra  
that supports our continued journey towards zero harm.  
Collectively these elements will help our entire staff to both 
understand and articulate the most important aspects of our  
overall Health and Safety program. They also help us, as an 
organization, remain focused as we look to identify opportunities  
to improve upon our performance. 
These five key elements are: 
• Active Leadership; 
•  Training and Competency; 
•  Emphasizing Positive Safety; 
•  Risk Management; and
•  Maintaining Balance. 
The Safety AT ERM score is included in every Business Unit 
Managing Partner’s balanced scorecard. This score includes an 
evaluation of nearly all aspects of our overall program, including  
our safety management system self-assessment scoring. 
We can calculate a global Safety AT ERM score based on a weighted 
average (hours worked) of each business unit’s score. For FY20, we 
adopted a global target score of 65, which is the same target given 
to each of our business units.CASE STUDY
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY74
Global Safety Day 2018: 
maintaining balanceCase Study
Every ERM employee was invited to participate in a Safety 
Climate Survey. A key theme that emerged from the survey was 
that respondents, at times, struggle with maintaining balance to 
meet the obligations of the client and project budgets. At ERM, 
“maintaining balance” means the way in which we integrate safety 
into operations such that we do not have any conflict between safety 
and operational objectives. 
We selected maintaining balance as the theme for our 2018 Global 
Safety Day. It provided an important opportunity for our employees 
to gain a greater understanding of what this means at ERM and to 
appreciate how it is up to every employee to achieve it. People from 
across ERM’s offices were involved with local activities and materials 
shared globally. Well-being and work-life balance were raised by 
employees as part of the wider theme of maintaining balance with 
actions developed to provide support at a local level.
ERM won a 2019 Gold Quill Award of Excellence by the 
International Association of Business Communicators (a body that 
established the global standard for professional communications) for 
our Global Safety Day 2018 communications campaign.CASE STUDY
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY75
Our people
Why our people is a material topic for ERM:
Our ability to attract, develop, reward and retain talented employees 
is central to our business strategy and vital to our future. We want to 
hire passionate people and ensure that we nurture and support their 
development and success.
In FY19, ERM hired more than 1,000 permanent and 600 temporary 
employees, the most ever for our company. The majority of the 
new hires were entry level supporting our approach in developing 
talent and offering rewarding careers. This growth has had a notable 
impact on our company, from training and providing workspace, 
computers and field equipment, to integrating new employees 
into the workplace. It has also enabled our more experienced staff 
members to delegate work, advance their own careers and provide 
additional value-added services to ERM’s clients. 
 
 
FY19 IN NUMBERS
KPI highlight
FY19 Target
•  Show increase over prior year for gender diversity among 
Senior Consultants, Technical Directors and Partners.
•  Show increase over prior year for diversity in ERM’s Senior 
Leadership Team.
Result
• 23.5% female Partners (increase from 21.4% in FY18)
•  34.6% female Senior Consultants and Technical Directors 
(increase from 34.4% in FY18) 
•  The Senior Leadership Team’s diversity profile remained 
consistent from FY18 to FY19. 
SEE FY19 PERFORMANCE26
Internal promotions 
to Partner through 
ERM’s Path to 
Partnership program 42%
Women promoted 
through Path  
to Partnership 
program 1600+
New hires across  
38 countries 
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOUR PEOPLE76
Diversity and inclusion
 
ERM made notable progress on diversity and inclusion during FY19. 
We updated our Global Policy on Diversity  to make specific 
reference to inclusion. This reflects our organizational effort to 
ensure our behaviors and practices enable our people to bring their 
full selves to work, regardless of their background or who they are. 
The e-learning module on unconscious bias was launched in April 
2018 and now forms part of the mandatory training for all employees. 
This helps set a baseline for all our inclusive culture activities. 
Other important achievements during the year include:
•  The introduction of guidelines for inclusive recruitment, rolled out 
globally to ensure that our approach, wherever possible, avoids 
bias in our interviewing and selection activities;
•  The launch of a Women at Work series for 100 women across the 
company, as a pilot for a wider initiative being developed for FY20 
to support the progression of females into our senior career levels;
•  The introduction of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which 
serve as internal communities covering aspects of diversity and 
inclusion, providing personal connections and affiliation for ERM 
employees. The first ERGs launched focus on persons with 
disability and women; and •  The design, implementation and analysis of a survey on career 
progression, looking at whether diversity considerations have an 
impact on advancement at ERM. We are still working through the 
findings and determining action plans for maximum impact, but 
this will feed into all inclusion-related activities moving forward.
 In compliance with legislation introduced in the United Kingdom, 
ERM published in March 2019 an update on the gender pay gap 
within Environmental Resources Management Limited (our UK 
company), reflecting the position on 5 April 2018. The report also 
provides a summary of the actions taken during 2018, the outcomes 
and any further actions that will be taken during 2019 to continue to 
provide gender balance at all levels within the organization. In the UK 
business, the subject of this report, we have also identified a series 
of prioritized actions that we are pursuing to support us in closing 
our gender pay gap. Visit the full report on erm.com for more 
details of the scope and findings.
The Inclusive Culture Advisory Group has been central to many of 
these activities. Its FY20 plan will focus on more activity at the local 
level, such as inclusion moments in meetings and inclusion brown-
bag lunches, as well as increasing a strong communication focus  
to encourage a global conversation about inclusion across  
the business.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS77
Learning and development
 
 
We invest in the future of our people through a focus on learning 
and development. ERM provides opportunities for ongoing learning 
across technical, business and personal development subject 
areas. We offer a mix of classroom, digital, on-the-job and informal 
educational approaches – with technical experts contributing to 
specialist curricula.
The ERM Academy, our online portal, is the repository that holds all 
learning items, events, sessions and training records for our workforce. 
It is aligned with our career framework at each level. Employees can 
enhance the skills, knowledge and behaviors they need to adapt to  
a changing market and advance their career with ERM.
We aim to nurture a culture where learning occurs every day in 
everything we do, and where each of us takes ownership in driving 
our own development. On-the-job learning accounts for a significant 
percentage of an individual’s development. The ERM Academy 
includes new content and programs to align with our strategy and 
grow our capabilities while responding to the changing needs of  
the learner.
Every new employee completes mandatory training and local 
induction activities so that they can carry out their work safely  
and in compliance with ERM governance requirements and policies,  
our clients and relevant legislation.  Career progression  
and leadership pipeline
 
We launched a new online career progression tool that makes it easy 
for all ERM employees to review available career paths, view job 
specifications and work with their supervisor and mentors to take  
a transparent and active role in following their career aspirations.
Partner-led teams collaborate to deploy the right people for the right 
job. These teams have access to our entire ERM workforce, spanning 
different geographies and sectors in order to meet our evolving client 
needs. This structure also enables ERM employees to deepen their 
professional experience by supporting projects worldwide.
 We continue to evolve our approach to our leadership pipeline. We 
are implementing a new Path to Partnership approach focusing on 
our talent reviews to identify individuals who have a track record of 
strong performance and the potential to be successful Partners at 
ERM. Once identified, through an externally facilitated leadership 
evaluation process we will assign them a sponsor from our Senior 
Partners to help them prepare and develop into the requirements 
of our Partner roles. With our new approach, we are reinforcing the 
need for our Senior Partners to be the stewards of our Partnership 
and take on the accountability, along with our candidates, to 
support them successfully to promotion.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOUR PEOPLE78
Building an  
inclusive culture Case Study
This fiscal year, ERM launched several campaigns to celebrate 
and encourage an inclusive culture across the company. Three 
noteworthy themes were the focus for the months of June, January 
and March:
•  Celebrating our LGBT+ community  
For the first time in our history, we observed Pride throughout 
the month of June 2018. Pride is the positive stance against 
discrimination and violence toward lesbian, gay, bisexual, and 
transgender (LGBT+) people to promote their self-affirmation, 
dignity, equality rights, increase their visibility as a social group, 
build community, and celebrate sexual diversity and gender 
variance. During June, we raised awareness of LGBT+ community 
issues in the workplace, not only at ERM, but also our clients.  
We shared employee stories and experiences across our 
enterprise social network.CASE STUDYCASE STUDY
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOUR PEOPLE79
Case Study: Building an inclusive culture  
•  Empowering persons with disabilities  
In January 2019, ERM offices hosted lunchtime sessions in which 
we reflected on disability in the workplace and what we can do 
to empower and include our colleagues who live and work with a 
disability. This is a dimension of diversity that covers a very broad 
range of issues, so getting the conversation going across the 
company is incredibly important. We shared a variety of posts that 
explored some of the key issues our employees who live and work 
with a disability are facing every day. Across ERM, our employees 
actively engaged in conversations and testimonials about 
disabilities of all kinds, including those that are hidden.
•  Building a gender-balanced world  
ERM celebrated International Women’s Day (8 March 2019) 
throughout the month in our offices around the world through 
global communications across our internal channels, as well as 
local office lunchtime sessions. We support SDG 5 on gender 
equality within our own organization, through our work with clients 
and with our nonprofit partners through the ERM Foundation. 
This year’s theme, Balance for Better, reinforced the importance 
of balance in making the world a better place, for women and 
all people. Our local office sessions included a discussion on 
actions we could take for greater gender balance at all levels of the 
company, with output from those discussions being raised with 
our Global Advisory Group.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS80
Leading Women in 
Sustainability Award Case Study
ERM’s Group CEO, Keryn James, received a Leading Women in 
Sustainability Award from the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development in October 2018. She received the award for leading 
a company that makes a material impact on the sustainability 
challenges and opportunities of our clients. To be recognized in this 
way by the largest global cross sectoral business organization on 
sustainability is a testament to ERM and our purpose. Her advice  
to women at the start of their careers was:CASE STUDY
Don’t be afraid to take on new 
challenges when you think you are 
not quite ready for something you’re 
being asked to take on.”
Video
2018 LEADING WOMEN AWARDS
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSOUR PEOPLE81
Climate change
Why climate change is a material topic for ERM:
As a leading sustainability consultancy, climate-related risk is not 
just an environmental issue, but also one that has a direct impact on 
ERM’s financial health, reputation as well as our ability to retain and 
attract talent. Our most significant contribution in helping to combat 
climate change is through our work with clients, in some of the most 
energy-intensive industries, as they transition to a lower-carbon 
future. Nonetheless, we continue to take steps toward reducing the 
environmental impacts of our operations, with the greatest focus  
on reducing our direct and indirect impact on climate change.  
Many environmental issues – from waste and water management  
to protecting biodiversity – are integral to a holistic approach  
to climate change.
Climate change sits within our broader approach to the environment 
which is covered within this section.  We manage our environmental 
performance within our offices and also in the work we undertake 
with our clients – be that in the field or in existing client premises.  
This year, we have focused on setting our longer term targets to 
manage our own greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within our own 
operations and through our value chain.
 KPI highlight
FY19 Target
Adopt ambitious GHG targets based  
on science.
Result
ERM GHG targets validated by Science 
Based Targets Initiative.  
SEE FY19 PERFORMANCE
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSCLIMATE CHANGE82
Science Based Targets initiative , this makes us an early adopter 
among the professional services sector. The Science Based Targets 
Initiative is a collaboration between the Carbon Disclosure Project, 
the UN Global Compact, World Resources Institute and the World 
Wide Fund for Nature.
ERM has set absolute targets for 2025 to:
•  Reduce our GHG emissions from direct emissions (Scope 1) and 
purchased energy (Scope 2) by 30 percent (compared to 2014).  
To achieve this target we will take measures including transitioning 
to renewable energy in our offices. 
•  Reduce our indirect emissions in our value chain (Scope 3) by 
11 percent from a 2018 base year. This ambitious target will 
be achieved by reducing business travel and emissions from 
employee commuting.
 
These targets have been validated to be in line with the level of 
decarbonization required to keep global temperature increase  
well below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. Managing our environmental 
responsibilities
 
 
We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 
and we undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 
responsibility and encourage the development of environmentally 
responsible technologies and products. ERM’s Executive Committee 
has primary responsibility for our environmental performance. 
We are acutely aware of our responsibility to reduce our 
environmental footprint through the effective management of our 
offices and assets, business activities and client project work. 
Environment is a key focus area within the UN Global Compact and, 
as a signatory, we strive to embrace its core values and promote 
these values within our sphere of influence.
 
Science-based targets
 
Climate change is a material issue for ERM. Although the impact 
of our projects with clients far exceeds the impact of our own 
emissions, we are doing our part to reduce our carbon footprint.  
We work with leading companies to set greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emission reductions targets based on science, and we believe it is 
important for us to take a similarly rigorous approach to reducing 
our own emissions.
ERM has therefore set ambitious science-based targets to reduce 
our greenhouse gas emissions as part of a unified private sector 
response to the global risks of climate change. Validated by the 
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS
Download
ERM’S HEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENT POLICY STATEMENT83
Over the past several years, ERM has worked hard to reduce our 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, and our science-based targets 
build on these efforts. Given the nature of our business, which 
involves significant travel to project locations, Scope 3 emission 
reductions are very challenging. We have adopted an integrated 
approach to managing these emissions, which involves measures 
taken by ERM as well as changes in behavior by our employees. 
A Senior Leadership Team (SLT) Working Group has been 
established with senior operational and technical leaders from 
across the business to provide oversight and guidance on the 
implementation plan to meet the Science Based targets for 2025.  
The SLT Working Group will report into the Executive Committee 
Sustainability Working Group on a regular basis. 
We have identified priority areas where we can have the greatest 
impact, including transitioning to renewable energy in all of 
our offices, and additional measures to improve environmental 
performance in our offices. For our indirect emissions from business 
travel and employee commuting, we are working across the 
business with senior leaders and members of our employee-led 
Sustainability Network to ensure that we travel more sustainably. 
This will influence not only how we travel, but also where we locate 
our offices in the future to make it easier for employees to use public 
transport, cycle or walk to work.
Green buildings
 
We are progressively relocating our offices to more resource-efficient 
buildings and to areas with improved public transport links to help 
reduce the commuting footprint of our employees. A number of 
our offices have been recognized by building councils and local 
authorities for their reduced environmental footprints.
We are currently updating our Green Building Guidelines to support 
a new Global Facilities Policy and approach. These Guidelines 
and the new facilities approach have been updated to reflect our 
commitments within Science Based Targets. The Green Building 
Guidelines have been updated by our in-house experts in this area 
and include best practice examples from our offices who have 
upgraded their facilities in recent years.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS“ERM is the business of 
sustainability; therefore it is 
important that we take a leadership 
role on key issues such as this.  
 
Business is demonstrating its 
commitment to delivering its part of 
the Paris Climate Agreement through 
initiatives like the Science Based 
Targets Initiative – and in turn, this  
is what ERM is doing.  
 
The goals we have set are challenging 
for our business, particularly in the 
context of our growth plan. At the 
same time however, this is also 
providing a real example to the 
corporate world of how they too can 
transition to a low-carbon economy 
while maintaining their competitive 
advantage. Something that we are 
perfectly positioned to do ourselves 
and at the same time also help our 
clients with.”
Keryn James 
Chief Executive Officer
84
Office relocations help 
reduce GHG emissions  Case Study
As part of our efforts to meet our emissions targets, ERM is 
promoting green office moves. When relocating offices, we consider 
buildings that have a smaller environmental footprint through energy 
efficient features and optimized use of floor space. Recent office 
moves include the following:
•  Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: ERM’s office moved to an area with 
improved public transport links to help reduce the commuting 
footprint of our employees. The local sustainability team has been 
actively promoting sustainable employee commuting. The Kuala 
Lumpur office was able to optimize their floor space usage by 
switching to an open plan with both collaborative and relaxation 
break-out spaces. To encourage well-being, the space includes 
glass white boards on the walls for staff to create their own news 
and inspire others. The office also makes use of natural daylight  
to save energy.CASE STUDYCASE STUDY
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONSCLIMATE CHANGE85
Case Study: Office relocations help reduce GHG emissions 
•  Madrid, Spain: The office relocated to a building that remains 
conveniently located to public transportation, which supports 
sustainable commuting. The new office uses 25% less energy,  
by switching to LED lighting. The space makes good use of natural 
light by placing workstations in the most naturally illuminated 
areas. The office has a flex-desk system, with a concentration  
and interactive zone. Furniture is made of natural material and 
is furnished with systems that facilitate reuse at the end of their 
useful life or recycling.
•  Washington DC, USA: We relocated to a new space in the same 
building in February 2019, remaining close to several public transit 
options. The finishes and furniture used in the office exhibited 
many sustainability qualities:
 –Carpet tiles contained high levels of recycled content and “green” 
labeled for indoor air quality.
 –100% bamboo flooring from certified well-managed forests.
 –No volatile organic compound (VOC) paint.  
 –Energy star appliances.
 –Low-emission cabinet laminate and countertops.
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS86
ERM has a significant appreciation for the complex 
sustainability challenges facing our clients and society. 
Through our relationships with leading multi-stakeholder 
organizations, we are working alongside thought leaders 
from industry, government, nongovernmental organizations 
and academia to make a positive impact in the world.CollaborationImpact through
BACK TO CONTENTS87
In this section, we describe our programs, practices and 
performance for managing two of our six material topics –  
that is, ERM’s most important sustainability issues, confirmed 
through ERM’s stakeholder engagement process , materiality 
assessment  and senior management review:
•   Innovating with clients and other leading organizations
•  Contributing to society and local communities
We discuss our other four material topics – governance , 
occupational health and safety , our people , and climate  
change  – in this report’s section on Impact from operations . 
•  Innovating with clients and other organizations  – Innovation 
is at the core of ERM’s ability to make a difference for our clients, 
the planet and the long-term strength of our company
•  Contributing to society and local communities  – We seek 
to bring our knowledge, experience and passion to like-minded 
organizations through collaboration and our own ERM Foundation
•  Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals  – We 
are working with our clients and leading organizations - with the 
SDGs as a framework – to address sustainable development
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION88
Innovating with clients  
and other organizations
Why innovating with clients and other organizations is a 
material topic for ERM:
Innovation is at the core of ERM’s ability to make a difference for 
our clients, the planet and the long-term strength of our company. 
Whether leveraging technology to help meet sustainability 
challenges or collaborating with business and nongovernmental 
organizations to develop new tools and approaches, ERM is ready 
to partner and innovate with others. 
Our ability to innovate is the direct result of our ability to attract and 
retain people with strong technical expertise, coupled with a solid 
understanding of the commercial imperatives of business and the 
societal demands impacting the world’s leading organizations.
We are keen to share our expertise with organizations to build a 
more sustainable future together. Below is a sampling of our major 
collaborations with multi-stakeholder organizations.
KPI highlight
FY19 Target
Measure impacts of material innovations  
delivered to market in FY19.
Result
We measured impacts delivered through 
material innovations  
SEE FY19 PERFORMANCE
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONINNOVATING  WITH CLIENTS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS89
ESG roadmap for  
Society for Corporate 
GovernanceCase Study
BrownFlynn, an ERM Group company and active member for several 
years of the Society for Corporate Governance, was selected to 
co-author “The ESG Roadmap” (published in June 2018). Funded by 
a grant to Ceres from the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, the 
paper is intended for use by board members, corporate secretaries 
and in-house legal counsel at publicly traded companies to facilitate 
more informed decision-making regarding environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) issues, including disclosure of sustainability-
related information and direct engagement with investors.
Founded nearly 75 years ago, the Society for Corporate Governance 
seeks to be a positive force for responsible corporate governance, 
providing news, research and “best practice” advice and providing 
professional development and education through seminars and 
conferences.CASE STUDY
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
Download
ESG ROADMAP: OBSERVATIONS AND 
PRACTICAL ADVICE FOR BOARDS, 
CORPORATE SECRETARIES AND 
GOVERNANCE PROFESSIONALSINNOVATING  WITH CLIENTS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS90
SustainAbility 
insights and reportsCase Study
SustainAbility, an ERM Group Company, authors numerous insightful 
reports covering the full breath of sustainability issues. Recent 
publications include: 
•  “Evaluating Progress on the SDGs ,” which explores the 
results of the second GlobeScan-SustainAbility Survey evaluating 
progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (March 2019).
•  The annual trends report, “ What’s Next for Sustainable 
Business? ” (January 2019).
•  “Common Threads: Designing Impactful Engagement ,” 
which seeks to provide guidance that will enable companies to 
better engage their external stakeholders, address their material 
issues and strengthen their business strategies (November 2018).
•  SustainAbility and WWF collaborated on “ Sustainable Food 
Systems and Diets: A Review of Multi-Stakeholder 
Initiatives ” (October 2018).
•  “The 2018 GlobeScan-SustainAbility Leaders Survey”  
(June 2018). 
•  “Exploring the Impacts of Shareholder Activism on 
Sustainability ” by The Luc Hoffmann Institute and SustainAbility 
(May 2018).
•  “50 Years of Global Health Progress ,” written for the 
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and 
Associations (May 2018).
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
Learn more
SUSTAINABILITY INSIGHTSINNOVATING  WITH CLIENTS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS91
Uncovering the value 
of ESG in businessCase Study
In December 2018, ERM India in association with RobecoSAM 
and the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) organized a collaborative 
thought leadership forum entitled “Uncovering the Value of ESG in 
Business: Connecting the Dots with DJSI” in Mumbai. This is the 
first-of-its-kind multi-stakeholder forum in India to share ideas and 
experiences of bridging the gap between environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) and investment fundamentals. 
The key intent of this forum is to explore how leading companies in 
India are proactively improving their performance on ESG aspects 
so that they deliver enhanced business value. Business leaders and 
subject matter experts discussed:  
•  What are the business-critical impacts of non-technical/ESG risks 
and how have they created project delays;
•  How RobecoSAM’s corporate sustainability assessment prepares 
companies to make the business -case for ESG proactively in their 
discussions with investors; and
•  Sharing of best practices of Indian companies outperforming 
global peers based on their ESG performances, and are they 
making the right use of this critical business aspect in their 
discussions with international investors?
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONINNOVATING  WITH CLIENTS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS92
Global safety  
survey reportCase Study
Companies are investing substantial resources in safety processes 
and programs, but significant performance challenges remain, 
especially with regards to serious injuries and fatalities. There 
appears to be a growing sense that traditional approaches to  
safety may actually be impeding progress. 
In 2018, ERM undertook our first global safety survey to explore 
these themes, assess if there is a deeper shift in perceptions 
on safety, and bring fresh insight into the implications of these 
developments for organizational leaders and their safety functions. 
Between January and July 2018, we interviewed 144 senior safety 
leaders. All were key decision makers, and most brought a global 
perspective from their roles and their organizations. The survey 
confirmed our initial observations, but also provided some insights 
that were surprising. 
Read more about ERM’s findings from the survey , along with 
potential actions and considerations on safety.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONINNOVATING  WITH CLIENTS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS93
Contributing to society  
and local communities
Why contributing to society and local communities is a 
material topic for ERM:
As a sustainability-focused company, we encourage our consultants 
to share the lessons learned and insights gained from our work on 
more than 20,000 projects annually. In particular, we focus on those 
technical and professional skills that can have the greatest positive 
impact. This impact is driven not only by our work with clients, but 
notably through the work of the ERM Foundation.
ERM works with a range of organizations with a common purpose 
to shape a more sustainable future. During the past year, our 
consultants published thought leadership papers, played an  
active role in professional associations and delivered hundreds  
of presentations at conferences around the world.
KPI highlight
FY19 Target
Contribute 1% of prior year profits to support 
sustainability initiatives around the globe, 
primarily through the ERM Foundation
Result
We contributed 1% of prior year profits (more 
than $1 million).
SEE FY19 PERFORMANCE
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES94
Royal Geographical 
Society (RGS)Case Study
Supported by both corporate funding and pro bono  hours from 
the ERM Foundation, ERM has established a successful three-year 
corporate partnership with the Royal Geographic Society (with the 
Institute of British Geographers) (RGS – IBG), the world’s leading 
organization in the field of geography. ERM supports the RGS to 
advance the professional development of geographers. 
As part of this partnership, ERM has been providing volunteer 
support and technical expertise, focusing on two programs of work. 
The first provides secondary geography teachers with additional 
knowledge, skills and confidence to plan and deliver high-quality 
environmental fieldwork. The second is to support RGS with 
a regional program of professional development activities and 
networking events for geography professionals.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES95ESG disclosure 
guidance published 
by PRI and ERMCase Study
ERM and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI),  
the world’s leading proponent of responsible investment, have 
published guidance on ESG monitoring, reporting and dialogue 
in private equity. Launched at in June 2018, the guidance marks 
the culmination of a four-year project by PRI to support industry-
consistent approaches to incorporating responsible investment 
considerations across the three stages of fund due diligence, 
commitment and monitoring.
PRI appointed ERM to conduct research and help develop a 
framework for ESG disclosure during the lifetime of the private equity 
fund. Over 70 practitioners contributed to the guidance through 
interviews, consultation and through a dedicated PRI signatory 
working group representing 39 limited partner and general partner 
organizations. Following the release of the document ERM and PRI 
co-hosted a number of client events across the globe to promote the 
guidance and good practice.
Download the full report
ESG MONITORING, REPORTING AND 
DIALOGUE IN PRIVATE EQUITY
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES
“It has been our pleasure to 
partner with the PRI and the private 
equity industry to develop this 
guidance. The guidance outlines the 
underlying business case, provides a 
framework for a more consistent and 
streamlined approach to dialogue 
and disclosures between limited 
partners and general partners, and 
includes examples and case studies 
to support implementation.  
 
It is our hope that this guidance 
will help drive the monitoring and 
reporting agenda forward and, in 
doing so, deliver not only improved 
ESG performance, but also 
protection and enhancement of the 
value of underlying investments.”
Keryn James 
Chief Executive Officer96
Campbell InstituteCase Study
ERM has been a proud member of the Campbell Institute since June 
2017. The Campbell Institute is the environmental, health, safety 
and sustainability center of excellence of the US National Safety 
Council. The Institute brings together top-performing organizations 
from around the globe to share best practices and lessons learned 
among a broader audience. The Institute and its members are also 
committed to helping other organizations, across every industry and 
sector, improve their performance.
ERM actively participates in Campbell Institute committees, working 
groups and meetings.  For example, ERM Partner Brian Kraus spoke 
on a panel at the Campbell Institute symposium in February 2019 
on “The Next Evolution in EHS.” In October 2018, ERM’s Matthew 
Botzler and Steven Perkins presented a session on “No One Likes 
a Safety Cop” at the National Safety Council Congress, which 
14,000 safety, health and environmental professionals from around 
the world attended. Additionally, ERM’s Troy Meinen, a Technical 
Director and Global H&S Advisor to our Major Client Account Teams, 
worked with a group of other Institute members to publish a white 
paper on behalf of the Institute and National Safety Council related  
to serious injury and fatality prevention.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES97
World Business 
Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD)Case Study
ERM is a founding member of WBCSD, a global, CEO-led 
organization of over 200 leading businesses working together  
to accelerate the transition to a sustainable world. We have been 
actively involved in several WBCSD initiatives over the past fiscal 
year. Here are some highlights:
•  Group CEO Keryn James was among 10 recipients of the 2018 
Leading Women Awards announced at the annual Council meeting 
of the WBCSD in Singapore for her sustained and outstanding 
contribution to advancing sustainability at ERM. At the Singapore 
meeting, Keryn also was a panelist in a session on energy transition.
•  More than 40 of ERM’s technical experts from around the globe 
helped develop the SDG Sector Roadmaps Guidance for the 
WBCSD, published in April 2018.  
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES98
Case Study: World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
•  ERM facilitated the development of the Chemical Sector SDG 
Roadmap , which was launched in July 2018. We also co-hosted 
two deep-dive webinars to present the roadmap to WBCSD 
member companies.
•  During the past year, we helped develop the Forest Sector   
and Indian Cement Sector SDG Roadmaps, set to be launched  
in 2019, and we recently began work with the oil and gas sector  
on their SDG  Roadmap.
•  Mike Wallace, an ERM Partner served as the interim Executive 
Director of the Social and Human Capital Coalition, which was 
launched in April 2018 and has the responsibility for establishing 
the coalition through building partnerships and encouraging 
companies to utilise the Social and Human Capital Protocol. 
•  ERM India assisted WBCSD in drafting the “ Low Carbon 
Technology Roadmap for the Indian Cement Sector: Status 
Review 2018 .”
•  As ERM’s Council member, Keryn James is one of five members  
of the Climate and Energy Program Board, which is developing 
next steps in energy and climate change strategy for the next  
three years. 
•  Global Director of Services, Brand and Communications Sabine 
Hoefnagel moderated and presented at a number of plenary 
sessions and workshops at key WBCSD events
•  Principal Consultant Stefano Pennese is seconded at WBCSD to 
develop the Global Information Platform as part of the Alliance to 
End Plastic Waste.
•  Senior Consultant Lindee Wong was seconded into the New 
Energy Solutions  project at WBCSD and has continued working  
to support this team.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION99
UN Global CompactCase Study
ERM’s Sustainability Report serves as our Communication on 
Progress, an annual disclosure to stakeholders on progress made 
in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the 
areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.  
We provide this index corresponding to our progress in implementing 
the Ten Principles.
As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we strive to embrace its 
core values and promote these values within our sphere of influence. 
We are a signatory of the Women’s Empowerment Principles as part 
of our commitment.
We are part of three UK-based UN Global Compact working groups, 
focused on diversity and inclusion, SDGs and human rights.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES100
Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI)Case Study
GRI is a nonprofit organization that promotes transparent disclosure 
through a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that 
is highly respected and widely used around the world. ERM’s 
collaborations with GRI include:
•  ERM is a GRI Gold Community member and Standards Pioneer.
•  We are a certified US training partner, offering interactive courses 
and “accelerative learning” techniques. We utilize exercises 
designed for customized experiences, and our courses are led by 
experienced practitioners who are experts on the GRI framework 
as well as other reporting standards.
•  We are a sponsor of the North American GRI summit and in 2019 
delivered a master class as part of this event.
•  Senior Consultant Kees Gootjes is seconded at GRI. Kees is 
advising GRI on an engagement strategy for ESG data providers, 
rankers and raters with the ultimate goal of harmonizing the 
different information requests to reporting organizations, thereby 
contributing to reducing the reporting burden.
•  Partner Sammy Lakshmanan and Senior Consultant Claire Stevens 
are working with GRI to facilitate the Corporate Leadership Group 
on digital reporting.
•  In May 2018 ERM CVS finalised their limited assurance 
engagement on selected GRI Standards and G4 NGO  
sector disclosures in GRI’s 2016-17 Annual Report.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
courtesy GRI/Tim Trumble PhotographyCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES101
Investing in the future Case Study
Stephen Pang, Senior Consultant in Hong Kong, gave a guest 
lecture to masters students in the Chemical and Biological 
Engineering Department at Hong Kong University of Science  
and Technology in February 2019. He provided insights into ERM’s 
Process Safety and Risk Management consultancy services that 
support the chemical process industry on inherent safe design  
and decision-making.
Stephen shared examples from several projects, including:
•  hazard and operability study for a nitrogen generation system 
in Kazakhstan;
•  safety integrity level classification study using layer of protection 
analysis approach for compressors in Japan;
•  quantitative risk assessment study for a booster station relocation 
project in Japan;
•  quantitative risk assessment study for a gas production plant in  
the vicinity of proposed development in Hong Kong; and
•  computational fluid dynamic study for toxic hydrogen bromide 
venting dispersion for a chemical plant in Singapore. 
These challenging projects reflect the importance of technical 
expertise when working to achieve a more sustainable world.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES102
The ERM Foundation was established in 1995 to enable ERM and its 
employees to provide funding and professional support for nonprofit 
organizations and social enterprises that share our commitment to 
creating a more sustainable and equitable world.
During the past 24 years, the Foundation has disbursed nearly $4.5 
million in grant funding, and more than 16,000 hours of technical 
and professional pro bono  support for more than 200 organizations 
around the world.  
 
FY19 IN NUMBERS
•  $325,700  – grant funding, comprising 
employee donations and company 
matching funds
•  $141,000  donated by ERM employees•  1,910   hours of pro bono  professional 
support provided by 139 employees 
•  208 employees participating in 
Foundation committees and grant  
review panels 
•  69 organizations received support from 
the ERM Foundation
•  30 countries covered by FY19 projects 
and programs •  7,000  trees, seedlings and shrubs planted
•  12,500  people with improved access to 
clean water and sanitation 
•  6,000  people participated in 
environmental education programs
•  900 female livelihoods supported
•  35,000  people with access to renewable 
energy products or servicesPartner organizations CommunitiesFunding Employees
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONTHE ERM FOUNDATION
The ERM Foundation103
A FRESH APPROACH FOR 2019 
As we approach the ERM Foundation’s 25th anniversary next year, 
this year we took the opportunity to consult with employees around 
the world to ensure that the Foundation is continuing to evolve to 
meet the needs of all our stakeholders. We have responded to some 
of this employee feedback to refresh our approach, and prioritize 
working in partnership with smaller organizations, for whom our  
level of funding and professional support can have a meaningful  
and lasting impact.
OUR FOCUS AREAS 
We concentrate on three focus areas that align with the interests 
and professional expertise of ERM employees.
In addition to these core focus areas, we have identified three cross-
cutting themes, which guide the way we work:
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
Download
ERM FOUNDATION ANNUAL  
REVIEW 2019
104
Supporting chimpanzee 
conservation in Guinea Case Study
The ERM Foundation is working in partnership with Project 
Primates France  to assess potential sites to release rehabilitated 
orphaned chimpanzees back into the wild. We have provided 
funding and pro bono  professional support to assess the 
environmental conditions and potential human-animal conflict in pre-
selected sites. In addition, we supported the delivery of workshops 
with local communities on the topic of habitat protection and anti-
poaching awareness to encourage co-habitation in advance of the 
release of the chimpanzees back into the wild.
Video
WATCH A SHORT FILM ABOUT  
THIS PROJECT
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
courtesy ©CCC – Gaelle OsswaldTHE ERM FOUNDATION105
Improving access to 
clean water in Argentina Case Study
An ERM team in Argentina is working with the social enterprise, 
Agua Segura , on a pilot project to purchase and install 
microbiological water filters to improve access to safe and clean 
water for vulnerable communities in the provinces of Buenos Aires 
and Corrientes. The ERM team is also conducting educational 
workshops within five pilot schools, focused on the importance  
of clean water, hygiene and healthy habits to prevent disease. 
During 2018, the water filters we installed improved access to clean 
water for 755 children and their families. In the year ahead, Agua 
Segura will expand this project to areas in Colombia, supported  
by the funds raised from this year’s ERM “Holiday E Card” 
fundraising appeal.
ERM’s Regional CEO in Latin America & 
the Caribbean, Carlos Pereyra, and a team 
of ERM employees from Buenos Aires 
volunteering with Agua Segura. 
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONTHE ERM FOUNDATION106
Girls with dreams become 
women with mission  Case Study
The Asian University for Women (AUW), located in Chittagong, 
Bangladesh, exists to educate and empower a rising network of 
women leaders, particularly for women who are the first in their 
family to receive a university education. 85 percent of AUW students 
receive scholarships, ensuring that a lack of financial resources is 
not a barrier for intelligent and ambitious young women to enter 
higher education.
An ERM Foundation team in Hong Kong is working with AUW to 
provide workshops for selected AUW students. The workshops 
explore some of the sustainability challenges and opportunities 
facing the private sector - such as climate change, and sustainable 
growth – so that the students are equipped to translate this 
understanding into their future careers after graduation. 
One of the workshop participants - Archana Somasekharan - came 
to AUW from a small village in Kerala in Southern India. She was the 
first person in her village to travel abroad to pursue education. As a 
result of this workshop, Archana was hired by ERM, and now works 
as a Consultant in our Bangalore office.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONArchana was subsequently invited to deliver a speech at a Global 
Women’s Summit in Singapore, where she gave her life story “Girls 
with dreams become women in mission”. She spoke of the dream 
that made her strive to do her best and not accept any limitations on 
what she could achieve.
According to Archana, “Now I hope that I can enable and empower 
more girls and young women to follow a similar path”
We are currently exploring ways to strengthen our partnership with 
AUW in the year ahead, with Archana’s involvement and input, 
including the opportunity to hire more AUW graduates in our Asia 
Pacific region.
Now I hope that I can enable 
and empower more girls and 
young women to follow a 
similar path”
THE ERM FOUNDATION107The United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals  
(SDGs) in September 2015. These 17 goals are designed to end poverty, 
fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. They 
reside within the key document, Transforming our World: The 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development . 
Reaching these goals will take everyone’s contribution, including 
government, civil society and business. ERM has been involved with the 
SDGs since the start of their development in 2012. We contribute to the 
SDGs in three ways: through our work for clients, in our operations and 
with the ERM Foundation.
 
SDGs: for our clients
 
We are working with our clients and leading organizations – with  
the SDGs as a framework - to address sustainable development.  
How do with do this? By helping clients to:
•  Identify how the SDGs can contribute to or enhance their company  
or investment strategy;
•  Support the identification of material issues – then setting  
priorities and targets with a view to identify future challenges  
and opportunities;
•  “Operationalize sustainability,” and determine how to reach goals and 
targets through programs, practical action and capability building; and
• Report, disclose and assure performance to stakeholders.
We are strengthening our capability in this area through the recent 
acquisitions of BrownFlynn and SustainAbility – two organizations that  
have been working with the SDGs with clients and through research  
and published insights.
Contributing to the SDGs
 
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS108
 IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS
SDGs: in our operations
 
ERM strives to operate in a sustainable manner that supports the SDGs. 
We have adopted several policies and programs that directly contribute 
to the goals, as do our sustainability targets and goals . 
Of particular note, we have adopted ambitious Science Based Targets , 
which have been validated to be in line with the level of decarbonization 
required to keep global temperature increase well below 2 degrees 
Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. 
Through our membership of entreprises pour l’environnement (epe), a 
member of the WBCSD Global Network based in France, we have joined 
the act4nature biodiversity initiative. ERM participates in SDG panels 
at leading conferences and convened SDG workshops and webinars 
with companies across geographies and sectors, sharing our own 
experiences of contributing to the SDGs.
 
SDGs: with the ERM 
Foundation
 
Through the ERM Foundation’s projects, employees can lend practical 
and technical support to many organizations and social enterprises that 
otherwise would not benefit from the breadth of ERM’s expertise.
109
SDG Roadmap for 
the chemical sector  Case Study
ERM facilitated nine of the world’s leading chemical companies and 
two industry associations to develop the Chemical Sector SDG 
Roadmap, convened by the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD). The contributors included AkzoNobel 
and Solvay as co-chairs, Covestro, The Dow Chemical Company, 
DSM, Evonik Industries AG, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings, SABIC, 
Sumitomo Chemical Company, Limited, as well as The American 
Chemistry Council (ACC), and The European Chemical Industry 
Council (Cefic).
The Roadmap explores key opportunities and impact pathways for 
the sector, while also presenting a strong business case for action. 
It also highlights the significant role that the chemical sector has to 
play in realizing the SDG agenda and represents an invitation for the 
entire sector to work together across the value chain to maximize 
SDG impact.
ERM led the development of the WBCSD’s SDG Sector Roadmap 
Guidelines , published in April 2018, involving extensive technical 
and strategic input from our global experts with cross-sector 
experience in tackling SDG issues. The chemical sector was the 
first to pilot these guidelines and ERM is now developing further 
SDG roadmaps with WBCSD member companies representing the 
cement and forest sectors and has started working with two oil and 
gas sector industry bodies.
Download
WBCSD’S CHEMICAL SECTOR  
SDG ROADMAP
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS110
2030Vision uniting  
to deliver technology  
for SDGs Case Study
2030Vision  is a partnership that connects businesses, NGOs 
and governments with the technology and expertise they need to 
realize the SDGs by 2030. SustainAbility is a founding member of 
2030Vision, whose current partners also include technology firms 
Microsoft, SAP and ARM, along with UN Global Compact, UNICEF, 
The New York Academy of Sciences, Fauna and Flora International, 
Centre for Global Equality, University of Cambridge Judge Business 
School, British Council, Be He@lthy Be Mobile, GeSI and  
Project Everyone.
2030Vision’s ambition is to transform the use of technology so 
that all people can live their lives to their full potential by 2030. 
SustainAbility authored the 2030Vision Report, which summarizes 
key opportunities and challenges for digital technology and the 
Global Goals. With input from technology experts and end users,  
the report describes the scale of the transformation needed, and  
the aligned social, environmental and commercial opportunities.
From the Internet of Things (IoT) to blockchain, from Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) to intelligent systems, technology will have profound 
implications for business and society. SustainAbility’s research 
for the 2030Vision’s first report highlighted food and agriculture, 
transport, infrastructure, and logistics and heath as the most 
promising opportunities for digital technology where commercial 
interests and global societal needs were aligned.
Download
2030VISION REPORT
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS111
Evaluating Progress  
on the SDGs survey Case Study
This report explores the results of the second GlobeScan- 
SustainAbility Survey evaluating progress on the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs or the Global Goals). 
In 2019, we polled sustainability experts to evaluate progress on 
individual Global Goals, rank their relative urgency and share insights 
into the priorities within their own organizations. We also asked 
which specific SDGs experts thought individual corporate sectors 
should focus on.
More than 450 experienced professionals from North America, 
Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Africa responded to our 
survey. Throughout this report, we draw comparisons between our 
findings and the data we collected from our previous SDG survey 
two years ago. We also examine progress made since 2005 when 
we first asked our pool of expert respondents to comment on global 
progress on sustainable development.
Download
GLOBESCAN-SUSTAINABILITY  
SURVEY REPORT
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS112
Using the Social and 
Human Capital Protocol Case Study
The Social and Human Capital Protocol  is part of a broader 
movement to enable businesses to integrate people, planet and 
profit as drivers of sustainable growth. Businesses struggle to 
measure and value their impacts on social and human capital in 
a way that provides useful and actionable information for internal 
decision-makers to strengthen their social and human capital for 
the benefit of society and business. The Protocol aims to bridge this 
gap and enable businesses to better understand their positive and 
negative effects on their people and society at large.
Clients can use the Protocol to measure their business’ impacts 
relating to avoiding, preventing and actively addressing illegal 
activities, such as child labor, forced labor and breaches of health 
and safety requirements. Some businesses are already reporting on 
these topics as signatories to certain international agreements.  
The Protocol seeks not to replace but to support such agreements 
by helping businesses to clarify the business and societal value of  
a robust response to these issues.
Mike Wallace, a Partner with BrownFlynn, an ERM Group company, 
served as the interim Executive Director of the Social and Human 
Capital Coalition, which was launched in April 2018.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS113
SDGs and the impact 
on business workshop Case Study
How do companies integrate SDGs into their business strategies? 
ERM Belgium organized a #Business4Lunch session on the SDGs 
and the impact on business. 
Principal Consultant Bryan Hartlin presented ERM’s work completed 
for the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s SDG 
sector roadmaps. Corporate clients and a number of Brussels-
based sector trade associations participated in an active discussion 
throughout the workshop to discuss barriers, enablers and 
accelerators to implementation of the SDGs into corporate agendas. 
Participants discussed their unique approaches to operationalization 
of the SDGs, where they are focusing efforts and how they are 
measuring progress. The group also discussed how cross-cutting 
themes such as climate change, biodiversity and people must be 
interwoven throughout all activities.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS114
5000 ERM actions 
to celebrate Global 
Goals WeekCase Study
Each September, people around the world celebrate Global Goals 
Week to mark the anniversary of the adoption of the SDGs in 2015.  
It is a week of action, awareness and involvement. In September 
2018, ERM set a challenge to undertake 5,000 actions that will 
contribute to the SDGs. These could be simple, personal actions, 
such as reducing single-use plastics in your weekly shopping, 
working with a local community-based organization, or speaking 
with a client about their contribution to the SDGs – as long as it is 
was something that you were not already doing.
The response to #5000actions was very positive. Here are a few 
examples of actions taken:
•  Belgium: Bringing a bag every time you walk your dog to pick  
up litter in the neighborhood.
•  UK: Sharing tips for how to go “plastic free.”
•  Thailand: Supporting a client in analyzing social return on 
investment for a project, including the installation of a water filtering 
machine that helps provide drinking water for an entire school.
•  Chile: Using biodegradable bags instead of plastic bags for 
household trash.
•  US: donating food with others from the office to a local food bank.•  Thailand: Convincing a client to switch from providing individual 
water bottles to paper cups and ultimately to reusable drinking 
glasses at its training venue.
•  Germany: Cleaning trash from the forest near the office with 
colleagues.
•  Canada: Using public transit to commute to work.
•  UK: Signing up for a 6-week online course on designing  
for environmental sustainability and social impact. 
•  Brazil: Cleaning up trash around a small lake in a nearby residential 
area with office colleagues, family members and friends, then 
segregating and donating material to a small recycling company. 
In addition, planting 12 trees around the small lake as well as 
collecting unused text books from home to donate to schools.
•  US: Striving to get as close to a “zero waste” lifestyle as possible.
•  Australia: attending free webinar on why water professionals 
should care about the SDGs and sharing materials with colleagues.
•  India: Replacing plastic drinking water bottles with glass, switching 
off lights and appliances when not in use and donating clothes  
for reuse.
•  UK: Eliminating plastic cling wrap at home.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS115
Philadelphia office 
transforms its 
recycling program Case Study
What makes a successful recycling program here in our Philadelphia, 
US, office? A growing and highly involved Green Team with defined 
roles and responsibilities, a supportive administrative team, regional 
manager and Business Unit Managing Partner, a yearly agenda and 
approved (small but helpful) Green Team budget, innovative solutions 
to current local waste problems, thoughtful monthly discussions 
engaging daily conversations about waste and responsibility, an entire 
week of activities dedicated to Earth Day and clearly designated 
recycling program bins. 
In less than five years, the office has transformed from barely 
understanding what the building-servicing recycling company 
collected to going above and beyond with cradle-to-grave  
recycling solutions. 
Our biggest success story has been Terracycle , a free program 
that removes non-traditional waste from landfills and simultaneously 
earns funds which we donate to the ERM Foundation. To date, we 
have donated nearly $1,100. Other programs (e.g., battery recycling, 
worn-out shoes, plastic bottle caps, plastic grocery bags, etc.) have 
great impact,too. Each of these programs continues to benefit ERM, 
our communities and the environment.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS116
Royal Geographical 
Society (RGS) 
lecture on SDGsCase Study
With ERM’s commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) in mind, Linden Edgell, our Global Sustainability Director, 
delivered an RGS Monday Night lecture on “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: Ambition or Fantasy?” to an audience of 
approximately 500 people.   
The lecture explored whether the SDGs offer us a realistic roadmap 
for the future of our planet and challenged the audience to consider 
what the SDGs mean for each one of us. Under the auspices of the 
RGS, ERM is now participating in a working group of geography 
practitioners in government, academia, NGOs and business to 
explore how we can more effectively collaborate and contribute  
to the SDGs.
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS117
Bloomberg Sustainable 
Business SummitsCase Study
Now in its third year, our partnering with Bloomberg continues to 
build on our work to raise the profile of environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues as well as sustainable business in general. 
Working with both investors and corporations, we help organizations 
determine how they can contribute to a more sustainable future with 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a framework.
ERM’s continuing partnership with Bloomberg and its Sustainable 
Business Summit Series included major Summits in Seattle, New 
York and London in 2018 and the new February 2019 event on 
Finance, Strategy and the Sustainable Development Goals in New 
York. ERM Partner Jaideep Das participated in a panel on tracking 
the impact of the SDGs and investor demand for such reporting, 
along with the head of ESG Reporting and Impact Measure for  
the TD Bank Group.
 VIdeo
WATCH A RECORDING OF THIS EVENT
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGSERM Foundation  
and the SDGsCase Study
The ERM Foundation is committed to making a measureable 
contribution to the SDGs. These Global Goals provide a framework 
for us to measure and report on the contributions we are making to 
the global sustainable development agenda. We have prioritized nine 
intersecting SDGs that align with our focus areas. We have recently 
launched an online tool to more efficiently collate information on our 
ERM Foundation projects, that will support our measurement of 
impact in the SDGs.
118
 IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
Download
ERM FOUNDATION ANNUAL  
REVIEW 2019CONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS119
Progress towards achieving 
the SDGs
 
For each of our material topics, we identified the SDGs and SDG 
targets that are most relevant to our work with clients and other 
organizations, our own operations and the ERM Foundation.  
The following table provides a snapshot of ERM’s contributions 
within our own operations, with our business partners and through 
our work with clients. For a summary of the progress made through 
the ERM Foundation, visit the ERM Foundation Annual Review.16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery 
in all their formsOur commitment to combat bribery and 
corruption is fundamental to how we operate 
and is embedded into our key systems and 
programs. For more on the location of anti-
bribery and corruption-related disclosures in 
this report, see our UN Global Compact Index, 
which includes details of our reporting on 
Principle 10 – Anti-Corruption. See the section 
on Governance  for more detailsGovernance
5.5 Ensure women›s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision-making in 
political, economic and public life
10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the 
social, economic and political inclusion of all, 
irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, 
origin, religion or economic or other statusThrough our policies, we prohibit discrimination 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, 
disability, veteran status or any other category 
protected by the laws of the communities in 
which we do business.
In the past year, our Diversity and Inclusion 
working group has worked to increase 
engagement across the organization on a  
range of important issues for our employees.
ERM is a signatory of the Women’s 
Empowerment Principles. The ERM Foundation 
includes "empowering women and girls" as an 
area of focus for funding projects reflecting  
the SDGs.
See the sections on Our people  and the ERM 
Foundation  for more details.Our people
8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe and 
secure working environments for all workers, 
including migrant workers in particular women 
migrants, and those in precarious employmentERM delivers a global health and safety program 
that focuses on the ongoing health and safety of 
everyone involved in and impacted by our work 
– including ERM employees, clients, contractors, 
as well as communities and the public local to 
our program sites.
See the section on Occupational health and 
safety  for more details.Occupational health 
and safety
Corresponding SDGs and 2030 targets FY19 progress ERM material topic
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONCONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS120
Corresponding SDGs and 2030 targets FY19 progress ERM material topic
Climate change
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share  
of renewable energy in the global energy mix
13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising  
and human and institutional capacity on climate 
change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction 
and early warningWe collaborate with industry, nonprofit 
organizations and thought leaders to raise 
awareness and take action to address  
climate change.
We are implementing a science-based target for 
our emissions, which includes purchasing more 
renewable energy.
We are experts in wind energy and other 
renewable energy sources and actively help 
companies to build and operate more renewable 
projects and to help other companies transition 
to purchasing more renewables.
See the section on Climate change  for  
more details.
8.2 Achieve higher levels of productivity  
through diversification, technological upgrading 
and innovationOur business strategy focuses on providing 
innovative solutions to our clients on the full 
range of sustainability issues. In particular, 
we are focusing on leveraging technological 
advances across our core services and within 
our own business to drive productivity.
See the sections on Innovating with clients  
for more details.Innovating with clients 
and other leading 
organizations
12.6 Encourage companies to adopt sustainable 
practices and integrate sustainability information 
into reporting cycle
17.16 Enhance global partnership for sustainable 
development by multi-stakeholder partnerships 
that mobilize, share knowledge, expertise...
to support SDGs in all countries, particularly 
developing countriesERM works with governments, businesses, 
industry bodies and other leading organizations 
to address complex sustainability issues by 
providing technical insights, an understanding 
of societal expectations, and framing that with 
commercial acumen to provide business value.
Throughout the report, we highlight our work 
with many leading organizations on sustainable 
development.
ERM participates in SDG panels at leading 
conferences and convened SDG workshops and 
webinars with companies across geographies 
and sectors.
See the section on Contributing to society  for 
more detail.Contributing to society 
and local communities
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION121
As required by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, 
we provide a summary of how we developed this report as well 
as indexes to help readers locate specific information about 
our policies, programs and performance.  
The intent of these reporting elements is to provide a level of comfort 
among our stakeholders that the information we report is timely, 
accurate, reliable and complete.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option . As a GRI Standards Pioneer, we are 
among the first to adopt the new GRI Standards: global best practice 
for sustainability reporting. In doing so, we are demonstrating our full 
support for GRI’s mission to empower decision-makers everywhere, 
through its sustainability standards and multi-stakeholder network,  
to take action towards a more sustainable economy and world.
In addition, this report includes disclosures recommended by Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
•  Defining report content
•  Stakeholder engagement
•  MaterialityReporting 
approach
•  Data background
•  Assurance
BACK TO CONTENTS122
Defining report content
This report details our performance during fiscal year (FY) 
2019 (1 April 2018 through 31 March 2019) in managing 
key issues and targets identified through our materiality 
assessment, and it is reviewed and approved formally by  
our Executive Committee. Our previous report (covering FY18) 
was issued in June 2018.  
Our approach
 
The key elements that we focused on in developing this report include:
•  Engagement with stakeholders:  This report responds to 
feedback from our stakeholders, which helped inform our materiality 
assessment and the report content. 
•  Sustainability context and value chain:  We explain how we see 
the role of ERM in wider sustainability issues, the impact we have 
through our client work and own operations, and the role that our 
experts play in professional associations, industry forums and other 
thought leadership activities to address important issues raised by 
our stakeholders.
•  Materiality:  We identify and describe the material topics that 
are important to our stakeholders and the business, and set out 
our associated performance for the reporting year as well as key 
performance indicators (KPIs) and targets for the coming year  
and beyond.
ERM has taken steps to make sure that the information, data 
and materials mentioned in this report are correct at the date 
of publication.  However, ERM is not able to guarantee that the 
information, data and materials remain correct after that date. For this reason, the contents of this report is provided for informational 
purposes only and may not be relied on.  ERM disclaims liability for 
any reliance made on the information, data and materials contained  
in this report.  
Defining report quality
 
The GRI Standards set out principles for defining reporting quality,  
and we have taken a number of actions to meet these principles:
•  We safeguard the quality of information contained in this report 
through a robust assurance process leveraging internal and external 
expertise; and
•  We continue to improve the availability of timely information to 
internal leaders in order to inform decision-making and drive 
performance.
Determining what to include in this report begins with an 
understanding of our impacts throughout our value chain , which 
include our associations with business partners, our work undertaken 
for clients and our thought leadership activities. This report addresses 
those items that are of significant interest to our stakeholders and to 
ERM’s business strategy.
Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment  in order for our 
business planning to include initiatives to respond to the key topics 
identified. We establish KPIs and targets to track the effectiveness of 
our management of these issues throughout the year. Our focus is on 
improving, year on year, the management of key sustainability issues 
for the business.
REPORTING APPROACHDEFINING REPORT CONTENT
If you would like more detail on any 
information contained in this report please 
contact Sustainability@erm.com .123
Stakeholder engagement
As part of our commitment to good business, we engage 
regularly with key stakeholders. This process helps us to 
understand, prioritize and manage our sustainability impacts 
as an organization as well as to evolve our client services. 
Our process
 
We have a range of internal and external stakeholders. We engage 
with stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms, including direct 
dialogue, surveys, engagement at professional and industry forums, 
and sharing information. The frequency and nature of this dialogue 
are designed to enable regular communication with stakeholders on 
key issues. We conduct additional engagement with stakeholders 
as part of the development of our sustainability reports, and this 
feedback is an important input of our report preparation.External Stakeholders
Ongoing engagement  
•     Formal and Informal reviews of projects, 
programs and relationships
 
• Key conferences and industry events
 
•  Active involvement in global sustainability-
focused organizations
 
•  Feedback from key suppliers and 
contractors through the Contractor 
Management Program
Annual engagement
 
• Thought leader interviewsInvestors
Clients
Contractors
Business &
industry
associations
Nongovernmental
organizations
Governments
Communities
AcademicsInternal Stakeholders
Ongoing engagement  
•  Knowledge sharing though  
collaboration tools  
• Open-door leadership  
•  Staff information sessions and best  
practice sharing  
• Team and staff meetings 
•  Strategy implementation activities, Path to 
Partnership and Aspire programs  
• Open forums with CEO and other leaders 
• Employee surveys 
• Technical communities  
•  Sustainability network calls, webinars, 
newsletters, intranet sites
 
Semi-annual engagement  
• Performance and development discussions Employees
ERM Partners
Sustainability
network
REPORTING APPROACHSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT124
Feedback from  
our stakeholders
 
Stakeholder feedback is integral to ERM’s sustainability reporting 
process. The following table summarizes the issues raised by our 
stakeholders, along with links to information on how we respond  
to these issues.ERM response in this report
Our people
Climate change , Climate change and energy transition
Occupational health and safety
Contributing to society and local communities , ERM Foundation
Our peopleMaterial topic Stakeholder
Diversity and inclusion
Environmental impacts
Health and safety
Social impacts
Talent attraction and retentionEmployees
ERM senior leaders Governance
Our people
Governance
Innovating with clients and other organizations
Occupational health and safety
Governance
Our peopleAnti-corruption
Diversity and inclusion
Human rights
Innovation
Occupational health and safety
Supply chain
Talent attraction and retention
External thought 
leadersContributing to society and local communities , ERM Foundation
Governance
Governance
Governance
Contributing to society and local communities , ERM FoundationBiodiversity
Data security
Human rights
Risk management
Water
Key clients Contributing to society and local communities , ERM Foundation
Our people
Climate change , Climate change and energy transition
Governance
Occupational health and safety
Governance
Governance
Our people
Our peopleCommunity engagement
Diversity and inclusion
Energy and GHG emissions
Ethics and integrity
Health and safety
Human and labor rights
Supply chain
Talent attraction and retention
Training and development
Competitors Contributing to society and local communities , ERM Foundation
Our people
Climate change , Climate change and energy transition
Governance
Our peopleCommunity engagement
Diversity and inclusion
GHG emissions
Supply chain
Training and development
REPORTING APPROACH125
Materiality
Each year, ERM conducts a formal materiality assessment  
in accordance with the GRI to identify and prioritize our most 
significant sustainability topics, set KPIs and targets for 
improvement, and guide the content for our Sustainability 
Report. Learn more about our material topics . 
Determining material topics
 
We undertook the following approach to determine the material 
topics for this report:
•  We drew on a wide range of inputs to develop a view on what 
matters to our internal and external stakeholders, including 
extensive interviews, surveys and benchmarking.
•  We expanded our understanding of ERM’s sustainability context 
through our involvement in various global organizations, including 
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
•  We considered the implications of megatrends affecting society 
and our clients as well as the Sustainable Development Goals. 
Senior management reviewed the company’s key business issues.
•  We created a matrix of key issues. Internal sustainability experts 
and business leaders applied the Content Principles and assessed 
the potential environmental, social and economic impacts – 
beyond the impacts on our business.
•  Based on this assignment, senior management agreed on the 
material sustainability issues for our business going forward.
•  We reviewed the GRI Aspects and, where relevant, assigned indicators, which are outlined in our GRI index .
•  In order to drive performance improvement, we established key 
performance indicators and targets directly related to our material 
issues. We report on our performance against the FY19 targets 
and long-term goals  in the report. 
Internal and external factors
 
Both internal and external factors determine what we considered  
to be material. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
•  Reasonably estimable economic, environmental, and social 
impacts;
•  The interests and expectations of internal stakeholders specifically 
invested in ERM;
•  Broader economic, social, and environmental interests and topics 
raised by our external stakeholders;
•  The main topics and future challenges for our sector, as identified 
by peers and competitors;
•  Laws, regulations, international agreements, and voluntary 
agreements of strategic significance to our organization and  
our stakeholders;
•  Key organizational values, policies, strategies, operational 
management systems, goals and targets;
•  ERM’s core competencies and the manner in which they can 
contribute to sustainable development; and
REPORTING APPROACHMATERIALITY126
 REPORTING APPROACHMATERIALITY
•  Consequences for ERM that are related to our impacts on the 
economy, the environment, and society. For each of the material 
topics, ERM defined the boundary of impact, and its relationship 
to the GRI Standards and ERM’s strategic business drivers  
(see below).
These material topics are very similar to the issues identified in last 
year’s assessment, but reveal slight differences relating to our impact 
on the external world. We have developed targets specifically to 
address each of our material topics for FY20 and longer-term goals.Material topics Boundary GRI sub-topics Strategic drivers
Governance Internal and external (e.g., supply 
chain & clients)  Anti-corruption, non-discrimination Management excellence
Our people Internal and external (e.g., meeting 
client needs & reflecting local 
communities)Diversity and equal opportunity  Attracting and retaining staff
Occupational health and safety Internal and external (e.g., travel & 
client sites)Occupational health and safety Duty of care
Climate change Internal and external (e.g., travel)   Emissions, Energy use Leadership position in the transition to 
low-carbon future 
Innovating with clients and other 
leading organizations Internal and external (e.g., clients & 
organizations) General disclosures  Responding to changing client needs
Contributing to society and local 
communities Internal and external (e.g., Foundation 
projects & programs)  Local communities Demonstrating investment in society 
and local communities127
Data background
To measure our social, economic and environmental impacts 
and support programs for improving our sustainability 
performance, ERM collects and reports data relevant to our 
global operations. The data are grouped, where applicable, 
in alignment with the focus areas presented in this report.
More information on the location of specific GRI and UN  
Global Compact content within this report can be found in  
the Indexes section .  
Organizational boundaries
 
ERM follows the GRI Standards, including the identification of 
material topics. All information in this report, including data and 
performance information presented, covers ERM’s operations as 
a group. Data reported are for those entities controlled by ERM 
Worldwide Group Limited (EWGL), which is based in London, UK.
Data in this report are inclusive for ERM CVS. ERM CVS is a 
wholly owned subsidiary of EWGL. ERM CVS works with many 
of the world’s leading multinational organizations and delivers 
independent, third-party, performance-driving certification, 
verification and report assurance services to help clients improve 
their sustainability performance. For more details of these services, 
visit www.ermcvs.com .
ERM CVS operates under ERM’s internal policies and procedures, 
and the following sections of this Sustainability Report 2019 therefore apply also to ERM CVS unless indicated otherwise:  
Our people, Health and safety, Society, Environment, and 
Governance. Because ERM and ERM CVS have combined human 
resource systems and office premises, the data in this report include 
the operations of ERM CVS.
Due to the nature of its work, ERM CVS has additional policies and 
procedures relating to independence and an Advisory Board that 
undertakes the role of the Committee for Safeguarding Impartiality.
REPORTING APPROACHDATA BACKGROUND128
Methodologies
 
Our ERM Sustainability Reporting Protocol guides the data-
collection process. Where applicable, the protocol is based upon 
external guidance, including the GRI Standards and the World 
Resources Institute/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Taking advantage of the professional expertise of our workforce 
and our purpose as an organization, ERM created a Sustainability 
Network of coordinators, advisors, leaders and champions 
across all of our offices and regions. Members of the network 
focus on enhancing our sustainability program and improving our 
performance in support of the SDGs. The Sustainability Network 
coordinates the collection of the majority of our environmental data. 
We expect to continue to improve the robustness and depth of our 
data over time.
We report environmental data for offices that fall within ERM’s 
material threshold (as defined in our Sustainability Reporting 
Protocol) per fiscal year (FY), which runs 1 April to 31 March. 
ERM’s Sustainability Reporting Protocol provides guidance for 
the development and maintenance of robust data collection 
systems that will measure sustainability performance across all key 
performance areas in a consistent, accurate and auditable manner.
We continue to improve our greenhouse gas data, including working 
with landlords to increase access to actual energy consumption 
data for leased offices. Where data are unavailable, we estimate 
consumption based on the amount of space we lease and expected 
energy intensity of office buildings.On a per-indicator basis, sources constituting less than 1 percent 
of ERM’s total impact for that performance indicator annually were 
excluded from the data collection and reporting process.  
Sources excluded are reviewed annually to determine if emissions 
are relevant for a continued de minimis exemption. For FY19, leased  
or owned office locations that were registered as encompassing 
fewer than 50 square meters, excluding dedicated server hosting 
spaces, were also considered de minimis and excluded from the 
data collection and reporting process. Impacts associated with 
office spaces of this size are projected to be less than 1 percent  
of ERM’s total impact in aggregate. Travel data for employees 
residing in these offices are included in the office responsible  
for booking travel.
For data normalized by the number of FTE employees, we applied 
the average yearly FTE, which is more representative of FTEs 
throughout the year than the year-end FTE. Average yearly FTEs 
have been applied in ERM Sustainability Reports since FY15.
All financial data are reported in US dollars, unless otherwise noted.
Data for new offices or offices added through ERM acquisitions 
during the reporting period are included where available from 
the date of opening or acquisition – subject to specific transition 
arrangements to ERM systems and processes. These arrangements 
are noted where relevant.
In some instances in the data presented, rounding results in  
small discrepancies.
REPORTING APPROACH129
Assurance
ERM has governance, reporting and internal review 
processes in place to help ensure the quality of information 
contained within this report, as well as stakeholder 
confidence in the accuracy and reliability of our reporting.
We have gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed and reported 
information and processes used in the preparation of this report 
in a way that can be subject to examination and which establishes 
the quality and materiality of the information. Individuals who did 
not prepare our Sustainability Report have reviewed the information 
reported and the processes for determining report content and 
stakeholder engagement.  
External assurance
 
We engaged with an external assurance provider to conduct an 
independent assessment of the following questions:
•  Are ERM’s governance structures and processes sufficiently 
robust to deliver on stated business and sustainability objectives, 
values and strategy?
•  How effective is ERM’s management approach in delivering on 
organizational objectives and targets across the organization?
•  How does ERM’s reporting of performance reflect the 
organizational response to its material sustainability topics?The external assurance was built on internationally recognized 
methodologies including AA1000AS.
Data verification
 
For our energy and GHG emissions data, our internal assurance 
process focuses on the quality (completeness and accuracy) of  
our reported data. ERM CVS conducted internal assurance on 
ERM’s FY19 data for these metrics, following the same approach 
used to perform external assurance for clients. This is based on 
ISAE3000 and ISO 14064:3, which are internationally recognized 
assurance methodologies.
Download
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT
REPORTING APPROACHASSURANCE130
The three indexes listed below can be found in the online 
version of the report (follow the links).
•  GRI Index , as required by the GRI Standards, specifying each 
of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in 
the report;
•  UN Global Compact Index , corresponding to our progress in 
implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact; and
•  TCFD Index , identifying our disclosures recommended by the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.Indexes
In the interests of sustainability, you are requested to view this 
version of the Report in digital form only – please do not print.