The business of sustainability
© Copyright 2021 by ERM Worldwide Group Limited and/or its affiliates (‘ERM’). All Rights Reserved. 
No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, without prior 
written permission of ERM.Summary of ERM’s 2021 
Sustainability Report 
www.erm.com/sustainability -report/
Innovation
In our 50th year, we are building on our expertise and experience to deliver innovative 
solutions to address the planetary and systemic challenges of our time.Impact through
Photo credit: Suhas Fuladi, Indiawww.erm.comCEO message: Keryn James  
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here to read the 
CEO messageINTRODUCTION
2www.erm.com2021 Sustainability Report highlights 
Strengthening our response to climate risk and DE&I
New public commitment to achieve net -zero emissions 
by 2025.
First TCFD disclosure published.
183 renewable energy projects undertaken during FY21, 
representing 58 percent increase on prior year.
46 percent increase in sales from projects that are 
helping clients transition to a lower carbon economy.
Four new acquisitions strengthens ERM’s capabilities 
across renewables, corporate sustainability, and safety 
services.
Increased focus on Diversity, Equity, Equality and 
Inclusion (DE&I) engagement across ERM.
Read about Our commitments (erm.com)
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here to see more 
2021 highlights
Photo credit: Melanie Eddis, United KingdomINTRODUCTION
3Who we arewww.erm.comWho we are 
At ERM, sustainability is our business.
Our diverse team of world -class experts supports clients across the 
breadth of their organizations to operationalize sustainability, underpinned 
by our deep technical expertise in addressing environmental, health, safety, 
risk and social issues. We call this capability our “boots to boardroom” 
approach for its unique service model that allows ERM to develop 
strategic and technical solutions that advance objectives on the ground or 
at the executive level.
Clients all over the world call on ERM to help them respond to complex 
sustainability ambitions like building business resilience, supporting the 
transition to a low carbon future, or enabling progress on environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) priorities .
Oursingular focus on sustainability , our range of services, and “boots to 
boardroom” approach ensure that we can work alongside our clients to 
address their most pressing challenges and opportunities, whether they 
require focused technical attention or full top -to-bottom strategy and 
solutions.
ERM has more than 50 years of experience operationalizing sustainability 
for clients. Our breadth and depth of expertise and ability to integrate 
solutions across organizations are why many of the world’s leading 
organizations call on us as their trusted advisors.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about who 
we are
Photo credit: Greg Murphy, United StatesABOUT ERM
5www.erm.comSustainability at ERM
ERM supports economic growth and societal progress that meets the needs 
of the present without compromising opportunity for future generations .
At ERM, we understand how business and sustainability goals are inextricably linked and how 
this connection impacts our society and environment. We believe that businesses and societies 
must transform in order to thrive and compete.
Our “boots to boardroom” approach to operationalizing sustainability at any level of business 
helps us to have an impact on pressing priorities for our clients. In developing our business 
strategy, we focused on the drivers that encompass significant social, economic, political, 
environmental or technological changes in the world and have a major impact on business and 
society today and for decades to come.
Three of these drivers, in particular, are significantly impacting our clients’ businesses and 
creating challenges that must be addressed:
Transition to a low carbon economy;
Business resilience; and
ESG and sustainable finance .
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryClick here for more 
information about 
sustainability at ERM
It is with this understanding that we continue to evolve our services to ensure we meet our client’s changing business needs as they respond to these drivers. 
And while we commit to driving this transformation for all of our clients, we also believe that the work starts with our own commitments here at ERM .
ERM’s sustainability program is an overarching framework that supports our long -term business strategy and drives continual impr ovement. Our Sustainability 
Policy andSustainability Approach articulate our commitments to sustainability.Photo credit: Theresa Michael, GermanyABOUT ERM
6www.erm.comOur value chain
For 50 years, our world -class experts have been 
working with clients around the world and in 
diverse industry sectors to help them to 
understand their environmental, health safety , 
risk and social impacts, and to operationalize 
sustainability .
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about our 
value chainABOUT ERM
7Responding to the 
COVID -19 Pandemicwww.erm.comERM’s response to the COVID -19 pandemic 
Supporting our people
As the impact of the COVID -19 pandemic extends from weeks 
to months to over a year, ERM has remained focused on 
business continuity across the more than 40 countries and 
territories in which we have operations.
The safety and health of our people, clients and others under our control is 
at the core of the way we do business. It must come first –every time and 
everywhere. This is driven by our belief in the culture of caring about the 
well-being of these groups of people.
In response to COVID -19, we put in place measures around personal 
health, travel, face -to-face meetings and ERM office operations. These 
measures remain in place at the time our Sustainability Report was written, 
and we are monitoring local requirements on a continual basis .
Our response to COVID -19is being guided by a global T ask Force as well 
as regional and local teams made up of subject matter experts and senior 
management representatives. As the conditions continue to change, so too 
will our global, regional and local response efforts.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about 
ERM’s response to 
COVID -19
Photo credit: Robin Kennish, Hong KongERM’S RESPONSE TO COVID -19
9www.erm.comERM’s response to the COVID -19 pandemic 
Contributing to society
As part of our response to the pandemic, ERM launched 
Standing Together, a $200,000 COVID -19 Recovery Fund. To 
help some of our longer -term nonprofit partners navigate the 
pandemic and help mitigate the negative impacts of this crisis, 
and invest in research collaborations that contribute to thought 
leadership on ways to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic .
Through the ERM Foundation, ERM has disbursed $100,000 in grant 
funding and committed $50,000 in pro bono professional time to support 
eight longer -term nongovernmental organization partners that are working 
to protect biodiversity, improve access to renewable energy, invest in 
women's livelihoods in the “green” economy, and improve access to water 
and sanitation during the pandemic for the following organizations. 
In addition, we invested $50,000 on thought leadership. We invited 
employees from around the world to submit ideas for collaborative 
research -led projects that draw on lessons learned to mitigate the impacts 
of the current pandemic or reduce the risks or impact of future outbreaks of 
emerging infectious disease. Learn more about the two projects we 
supported. 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about 
ERM’s response to 
COVID -19ERM’S RESPONSE TO COVID -19
10Our impact with clients www.erm.comImpact with clients 
We recognize that our greatest impact is through the work we 
do with our clients.
ERM has more than fifty years of experience operationalizing sustainability 
for clients. Our breadth and depth of expertise and ability to integrate 
solutions across organizations are why many of the world’s leading brands 
call on us as their trusted advisors.
Our singular focus on sustainability, our commercially focused range of 
services, and “boots to boardroom” approach ensure that we can work 
alongside clients to address their most pressing challenges and 
opportunities.
We most frequently do this for companies that have the biggest impact on 
the planet –including those in the energy, chemical and pharmaceutical, 
technology, mining and minerals, manufacturing, finance and other 
important industries.
Clients around the world call on ERM to help them respond to complex 
sustainability ambitions like supporting the transition to a low carbon future, 
building business resilience or enabling progress on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) priorities.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about our 
impact with clients
Photo credit: Yen Ngo, VietnamIMPACT WITH CLIENTS
12www.erm.comThe low carbon economy transition
For 50 years, ERM has worked with clients who have helped 
deliver access to energy around the world. Contributing to the 
Sustainable Development Goals, including access to 
affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, is 
an important priority for our company. 
ERM recognizes our client base includes companies in energy -intensive 
sectors that play an important role in socio -economic development at a 
global, regional and local level. We know our most significant impact is 
through the work we do with our clients, and we are engaging them through 
a sector -based approach as the pathway to net -zero and a low carbon 
economy looks very different from sector to sector .
ERM not only develops strategies and road maps for clients, we support 
our clients on delivering and operationalizing low carbon economy 
pathways that are scientifically robust, commercially viable and technically 
practicable –and that meet the needs of today’s environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) investors.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about the 
low carbon economy 
transition
Photo credit: Quyen Nguyen, Vietnam
We are also engaging other key stakeholders, including our industry partners, on the complex and important questions of ERM’s role in the 
transformation that is required across business and society to deliver a net -zero future.
In recent years, the company has made significant additional investment in building capability and capacity to support client needs in the 
transition to decarbonize. Since 2020, our public target demonstrates this commitment, with details of our work on the transi tion shared in this 
Sustainability Report.IMPACT WITH CLIENTS
13www.erm.comClient case studies
The low carbon economy transition
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about the 
these case studiesIMPACT WITH CLIENTS
14www.erm.comBusiness resilience 
At its heart, resilience is about surviving and thriving in the face of 
challenges in the short, medium and especially the long -term. 
It has perhaps never been in the spotlight the way it has in dealing with a 
pandemic, major economic disruption and significant social unrest related to 
inequity and discrimination. Business resilience is an ability to anticipate and 
prepare for change, then adapt to circumstances in the manner that provides the 
greatest chance of thriving over the long -term. It is shaped by actions that 
companies choose to undertake, but it is also influenced by a range of external 
trends and developments.
The regulatory environment, the stability of the financial system, investor 
preferences, consumer behaviors and the pace of digital transformation are only 
a few examples of external forces that will determine how adaptive and resilient 
businesses are in the future. Our “boots to boardroom” approach to 
operationalizing sustainability at all levels of business helps us support clients as 
they manage pressing business priorities around resilience, while also being 
focused on the future .
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
ERM has been a trusted partner by companies in virtually every sector as they seek to address the internal and external facto rs affecting resilience, 
both in the context of COVID -19 and well before the pandemic. We help companies become more resilient by helping them better und erstand their 
supplier base, conduct safety audits, identify climate -related and other ESG risk areas, develop training and information techno logy (IT) systems, and 
implement mitigation measures.Photo credit: ERMClick here for more 
information about 
business resilienceIMPACT WITH CLIENTS
15www.erm.comClient case studies
Business resilience 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Click here for more 
information about these 
case studiesIMPACT WITH CLIENTS
16www.erm.comESG and sustainable finance 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
Investors and buyers are willing to pay a premium for companies that 
can demonstrate strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
credentials. Stakeholder activism on ESG aspects are adversely 
impacting availability of capital. The last year has shown how robust 
ESG management provides companies with resilience to external 
shocks.
The growing ecosystem of ESG regulations, voluntary disclosure frameworks, 
incentives and targets are driving corporate leaders and financial players to make 
sustainability commitments and disclosures. Financial organizations –and their 
clients –have to respond to quickly changing sustainability policies and increasing 
stakeholder scrutiny. ERM is an advisor to more than 500 corporate and financial 
sector organizations, building on our technical, strategy, legal and in -house private 
market and banking experience. We partner with clients across every stage of their 
invest lifecycle :
Transaction advisory
Strategic direction
Driving improvement 
Disclosing effectively
Building on our experience in helping clients, ERM is an industry thought leader 
and strategic collaborator to leading sustainability organizations, including PRI, 
TCFD, European Commission, GRI, Equator Principles and WBCSD.Click here for more 
information about ESG 
and sustainable finance
Photo credit: Shona King, United KingdomIMPACT WITH CLIENTS
17www.erm.comClient case studies
ESG and sustainable finance 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryClick here for more 
information about these 
case studies
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS
18www.erm.comMeasuring impacts from consulting services
ERM’s greatest impact is through the work we do with our clients.
This year we have taken further steps to more effectively quantify this impact, 
recognizing that as a consulting firm, our role is part of a larger client program 
or project. We have been looking at the question of quantifying project 
outcomes for some years and have identified a subset of our work to pilot a 
methodology, acknowledging the complexities of measuring impact –
particularly for professional services firms. The challenge of measuring impact 
is daunting. 
Understanding the positive and negative impacts of our work, and the potential 
direct and indirect impacts, is extremely complex given the variations in the 
work we do for clients. We work with organizations in nearly every major sector. 
Our projects range in complexity from working for a single organization through 
to consortia with multiple parties. Project scopes address a broad range of 
SDGs and targets, from ending poverty (SDG 1) to partnerships for the goals 
(SDG 17) and everything in between. We also acknowledge the difficulties of 
attribution and additionality of our role when advising clients, who ultimately 
make project decisions. 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryPhoto credit: Robert Keyter, CanadaClick here for more 
information about 
measuring impact from 
consulting services
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS
19www.erm.comClient case studies
Measuring impacts from consulting services
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryClick here for more 
information about these 
case studies
IMPACT WITH CLIENTS
20Impact across operations www.erm.comImpact across operations 
Although ERM’s operations have a relatively small 
sustainability impact across many measures, we are 
committed to continuous improvement and leadership 
performance.
Reducing our own impact, regardless of scale, is important in fulfilling our 
responsibility in “walking the talk” in our own operations. In this section, we 
describe our programs, practices and performance for managing 
ERM’s material topics :
Business conduct & ethics
Our people
Health, safety & well -being
Climate risk
Client satisfaction
Contributing to society & local communities
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryClick here for more 
information about our 
impact across 
operationsIMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONS
Photo credit: Sarah Nainggolan, Indonesia
22www.erm.comBusiness conduct and ethics 
Why business conduct and ethics is a material 
topic for ERM
Business conduct and ethics is essential to the success 
and sustainability of ERM.
We conduct business with uncompromising honesty 
and integrity, adhering to laws, regulations and our 
written Code of Conduct, and expect everyone at ERM 
to act accordingly.
We express this commitment through our business 
values, our professional standards, staff training and 
our internal systems and practices. It is key to earning 
and maintaining the trust of our company’s 
stakeholders: shareholders and investors, management 
and employees, clients, suppliers and contractors, 
governments, non -governmental organizations and the 
communities in which we operate.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
IMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONSClick here for more 
information about our 
Business conduct & 
ethics
23www.erm.comOur people
Why our people is a material topic for ERM
Our ability to attract, develop, reward and retain talented 
employees is central to our business strategy and vital to our 
future.
Our goal is to hire passionate people from diverse 
backgrounds and ensure that we nurture and support their 
development and success. We intend to be the company that 
every sustainability professional wants to work for.
T o meet our vision, we need people who are flexible and can 
adapt their talent and energy to grow with ERM, matching 
changes in the marketplace that impact the work we do for our 
clients and in a way that meets their needs and works with 
their personal interests, strengths and passion.
We set three targets for FY21 and met or exceeded two of 
them.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
Our people
24
www.erm.comHealth, safety and wellbeing 
Why health, safety & well -being is a material topic for 
ERM
The most important role for all ERM leaders is to keep everyone 
safe. We have company procedures and protocols to support our 
efforts, and we recognize active leadership as the most important 
element. However, it does not start nor end with ERM’s leaders –
everyone has a responsibility for doing the safest work possible. If 
we cannot operate safely and without incident, then we cannot live 
up to our values. 
At start of FY21, we transitioned our whole workforce to work from 
home, adapting our health, safety and well -being practices to 
accommodate a radically different work environment. We had to 
ensure our employees had ergonomically sound workspaces at 
home, were provided with support on work -life balance and well -
being and could continue meet the needs of our clients. 
With operations in more than 40 countries and territories, we set up 
systems to track COVID -19 in every geography and established 
global, regional and business unit task forces to virtually meet 
regularly in line with our crisis response plan. 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
IMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
Health, safety & 
well-being
25www.erm.comClimate -related risk
Why climate -related risk is a material topics for ERM
Climate -related risk is not just an environmental issue, but also 
one that has a direct impact on ERM’s business, reputation as 
well as our ability to retain and attract talent. ERM has worked 
with energy -intensive industries for many years, and our 
portfolio of clients and projects is in transition as the economies 
in which we work are in transition. Using the TCFD framework , 
we are proactively investing in our services, skills and expertise 
to meet the changing needs and expectations of our clients, 
employees and industry partners.
In addition to our work with clients, we continue to take steps 
toward reducing our direct and indirect impact on climate 
change. We have committed to net-zero across our 
operations by 2025 and will strengthen our Science Based 
Targets to align to a 1.5 degree Celsius target. Many 
environmental issues –from waste and water management to 
protecting biodiversity and livelihoods –are integral to a holistic 
approach to climate change.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
Climate -related risk
26www.erm.comClient satisfaction 
Why client satisfaction is a material topic for ERM
Our ability to satisfy our clients’ needs and consistently exceed their 
expectations is critical to the ongoing operations of our company and integral 
to our business strategy and financial sustainability as a firm. We work with 
many of the world’s largest companies, as well as those whose activities 
have the greatest impacts across their value chains, to address their 
greatest sustainability challenges. We believe that by working with our clients 
to reduce negative impacts and enhance positive impacts on people and the 
planet, we can maximize our contribution to shape a more sustainable 
future .
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
Client satisfaction
We recognize the key elements that drive client satisfaction:
Providing exceptional value;
Demonstrating our technical and business competency and expertise;
Building upon our experience working with clients across industry sectors and geographies;
Offering innovative services and integrated approaches;
Harnessing technology and data; and
Delivering world -class projects and programs.
27www.erm.comContributing to society &local communities 
Why contributing to society & local communities is a 
material topic for ERM
As a global company with a long -standing commitment to contribute 
to the communities in which we live and work, ERM has a unique 
position and responsibility to build and leverage our technical 
expertise, societal understanding and business acumen to shape a 
more sustainable world .. 
For more than 25 years, we have collaborated with partners through 
the ERM Foundation to make a positive socio -economic and 
environmental impact. The ERM Foundation enables ERM and its 
employees to provide funding and professional support for nonprofit 
organizations and social enterprises that share our commitment to 
creating a more sustainable and equitable world.
T o help some of our longer -term nonprofit partners navigate the 
pandemic and invest in research collaborations that contribute to 
thought leadership on ways to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic, 
we launched Standing T ogether , a $200,000 COVID -19 Recovery 
Fund.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT ACROSS OPERATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
Contributing to society 
& local communities
28Impact through 
collaboration www.erm.comImpact through collaboration 
Innovation
Innovation is at the core of ERM’s ability to make a difference in the world. 
Whether leveraging technology to help meet sustainability challenges or 
collaborating with business and non -governmental organizations to develop new 
tools and approaches, ERM partners and innovates with others. We are building 
an ecosystem of like -minded organizations to co -create solutions, capable of 
addressing the urgency needed to accelerate progress to a sustainable future.
Leading change
We work alongside leaders from industry, government, nongovernmental 
organizations and academia to make a positive impact in the world. We lead 
conversations on key issues through the SustainAbility Institute by ERM, second 
our experts into important initiatives like the COP26 climate champions, and 
actively engage in building the skills and expertise of professionals in their 
membership associations. We are also deeply involved in developing the 
standards, tools, guidelines and best practice required to develop alignment in 
measurement, verification, reporting and disclosure.
Our commitments
We are committed to taking a leadership position through “walking the talk” in our 
own business. Learn more about our commitments with other leading 
organizations.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryThrough ERM’s global footprint and extensive experience, we have 
developed a significant appreciation for the complex sustainability 
challenges facing our clients and society . We recognize the 
importance of collaborating with other leading organizations to 
address these challenges .IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
our impact through 
collaboration
Photo credit: Quyen Nguyen, Vietnam
30www.erm.comThe SustainAbility Institute by ERM
ERM's primary platform for thought leadership
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
the SustainAbility 
Institute by ERM
The SustainAbility Institute by ERM is ERM's primary platform 
for thought leadership on corporate sustainability challenges 
and opportunities.
The purpose of the Institute is to define, accelerate and scale sustainability 
performance by developing actionable insights for business. We add an 
independent and authoritative voice to efforts to decode systemic 
complexities. The Institute identifies innovative solutions to global 
sustainability challenges built on ERM’s experience, expertise and 
commitment to transformational change .
Through the Institute, we collaborate with the world’s leading organizations 
in ways that operationalize sustainability. We bring together sustainability 
practitioners with common issues and ambitions to share challenges, 
discuss current trends and exchange information on emerging best 
practices. T oday’s ever -changing business context demands challenging 
the status quo, thinking differently and improving sustainability approaches. 
Our thinking decodes complexity, grounds conversations in critical trends, 
and advances ERM’s commitment to shaping a sustainable future .
The Institute operates a number of networks that help corporate members 
unlock new possibilities and approaches by connecting and collaborating 
with peers. We bring together sustainability practitioners from different 
sectors share challenges, discuss current trends and exchange information 
on emerging solutions, all in a confidential environment.
31www.erm.comThe World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD)
We provide leadership and technical expertise as a founding member of the 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO -led 
organization of approximately 200 companies supporting the business case 
for sustainability. Our most recent activities build on more than 25 years of 
support and collaboration with the WBCSD and its members .
Leadership: ERM CEO Keryn James is a member of and Co -Vice Chair of WBCSD 
Executive Committee. In addition, Keryn is Co -Chair of the Climate & Energy Program 
Board and was also a member of WBCSD’s COVID -19 response steering committee.
Vision 2050: ERM was one of 40 companies involved in the Vision 2050 project, which was 
recently launched with the theme of Time to Transform .ERM’s Global Sustainability 
Director, Linden Edgell, was seconded to Vision 2050 to lead the regional engagement 
program and ERM will be engaging peers, clients and the wider industry in the 
implementation phase over the coming year.
Resilience : The SustainAbility Institute by ERM co -authored a paper with the WBCSD 
onlong-term resilience as part of Vision 2050 and the response to COVID -19. The findings 
of this paper featured in an Op-Edon resilience co -authored by ERM CEO Keryn James 
and Peter Bakker, President and CEO of WBCSD.
CEO roundtables: ERM co -chaired C -suite roundtables on both finance and hydrogen. 
Susan Angyal, ERM CEO, North America, also spoke at the North America members’ 
roundtable.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryClick here for more 
information about 
our collaboration with 
WBCSD
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONS
32www.erm.comMultistakeholder partnerships
Making a positive difference for business, society and the planet 
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONS
We collaborate with society’s most prominent changemakers 
in order to make a positive difference for business, for society 
and for the planet.
As a sustainability -focused company, we encourage our more than 5,500 
consultants to share the lessons learned and insights gained from our work 
on more than 20,000 projects annually. In particular, we focus on those 
technical and professional skills that can have the greatest positive impact. 
This impact is driven not only by our work with clients, but notably by our 
work with a range of organizations with a common purpose: to shape a 
more sustainable future.
Over the past year, we adapted our methods to continue to support our 
partners through publishing thought leadership papers, playing an active 
role in professional associations and delivering hundreds of presentations 
at virtual conferences around the world. Below is a sampling of our major 
collaborations with multistakeholder organizations, which bring together a 
range of business, investor, civil society, academic and industry 
participants to achieve a common goal.
Click here for more 
information about 
our multistakeholder 
partnerships
33
www.erm.comCollaborations supporting the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
our collaborations 
supporting the SDGs
The United Nations adopted the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015. These 
17 goals are designed to end poverty, fight inequality 
and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. They 
reside within the key document, Transforming our 
World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development . 
Reaching these goals will take everyone’s contribution, 
including government, civil society and business .
ERM contributes to the SDGs in three ways: 
through our work for clients , inour operations and in 
collaboration with others . See highlights below on 
selected examples of ERM's collaboration with others in 
support of the SDGs.
34www.erm.comOur strategic partners 
Through ERM’s global footprint and extensive experience, we have developed a significant appreciation for the complex 
sustainability challenges facing our clients and society. We recognize the importance of collaborating with other leading 
organizations to address these challenges.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary
IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONSClick here for more 
information about 
our collaborations 
supporting the SDGs
35
Our reporting approach, 
performance data, 
indexes and download 
centerwww.erm.comOur reporting approach
As required by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards, we provide a summary of how we 
developed this report as well as indexes to help 
readers locate specific information about our policies, 
programs and performance.
The intent of these reporting elements is to provide a level of 
comfort among our stakeholders that the information we report is 
timely, accurate, reliable and complete.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards -core option. It serves as our Communication of 
Progress for the UN Global Compact. In addition, this report 
includes disclosures recommended by T ask Force on Climate -
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary 37IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATIONOUR REPORTING APPROACHClick here for more 
information about 
our reporting approach
Photo credit: Kevin Bryan, United States
37www.erm.comOur performance data
Based on our materiality analysis, we set annual targets 
and reviewed our 5 -year goals for each of our material 
topics. We track and report on our performance against 
our targets and goals and related sustainability key 
performance indicators.
Learn more about our performance against FY21 targets, and our 
targets and goals for FY22 and beyond . Our contribution to the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) can be found here.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryClick here for more 
information about 
our performance data
Photo credit: Mark Watson, VietnamIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION OUR PERFORMANCE DATA
38www.erm.comIndexes 
We provide three indexes, which make it easier for our 
stakeholders to find information of interest in this report. Each 
index serves a specific purpose.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index , as required by the GRI 
Standards, specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all 
disclosures included in the report;
UN Global Compact Index , corresponds to our progress in implementing 
the T en Principles of the UN Global Compact; and
Task Force on Climate -related Disclosure (TCFD) Index , identifies our 
disclosures as recommended by the T ask Force on Climate -related 
Financial Disclosures. We also published a stand -alone TCFD disclosure . 
Visit our Download center for PDF versions of the indexes.
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: SummaryIMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION INDEXESClick here for more 
information about 
our indexes
39
TCFD disclosurewww.erm.comDownload center
ERM Sustainability Report 2021: Summary 40We provide downloadable files of our sustainability data and several key elements of ERM's Sustainability Report.
Click here for more 
information about 
our downloadsINDEXESThe business of sustainability
Contact ussustainability@erm.com www.erm.com/sustainability -report
Photo credit: Suhas Fuladi, India