EVOLUTION PETROLEUM
2021 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
November 2021This report provides detailed information 
about Evolution Petroleum Corporation’s (“Evolution” , the “Company” , “we” , “us” , and “our”) Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”) initiatives, discussion, and related key 
performance indicators, as appropriate.  
In the creation of this document, we considered 
various frameworks, including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (“SASB”) Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standards and Institutional Shareholder Services’ (“ISS”) Environmental and Social (“E&S”) QualityScore. Our actions and initiatives implemented to date endeavor to comply with standards as represented by SASB and address ISS’ E&S QualityScore factors.
Our /f_iscal year ends on June 30. This document 
covers the three-year period of July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2021 where data and information are available, unless otherwise noted. For more information about our ongoing sustainability and ESG eﬀorts, please visit our website,www.evolutionpetroleum.com under the “Sustainability” section. Also, please see inside back cover for our Forward Looking Statements and Cautionary Note Regarding Oil and Gas Reserves .Evolution was formed in September 
2003 as Natural Gas Systems and went public in 2004, later changing its name to Evolution Petroleum Corporation. The Company is listed on the NYSE American stock exchange under the symbol “EPM” . Evolution is an oil and natural gas company focused on delivering a sustainable dividend yield to its shareholders through the ownership, management, and development of producing onshore oil and natural gas properties in the United States. Our long-term goal is to build a diversi/f_ied portfolio of oil and natural gas assets primarily through accretive acquisitions, while seeking opportunities to maintain and increase production through selective development, production enhancement, and other exploitation eﬀorts on our properties. We strive to minimize risk, maximize opportunity, provide a reliable return to our shareholders, and follow high ESG standards.
In early /f_iscal year 2021, we created an 
ESG Task Force charged with formalizing our existing ESG programs, proposing Positioned for Long-Term and Sustainable Success2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
and implementing new ESG initiatives, monitoring adherence to ESG standards, and formally communicating its /f_indings on an ongoing basis to our President and CEO as well as the Board of Directors (the “Board”). This inaugural Corporate Sustainability Report (“CSR”) is the result of its eﬀorts, culminating in public disclosure of our ESG program and discussion of our plans to continue to address these key issues in the future.
As we endeavor to continually engage our 
stakeholders and provide communication regarding our commitment to our ESG program, corporate responsibility, and corporate sustainability, we invite our stakeholders to provide feedback and ask questions about our inaugural CSR. Please send any feedback or questions about our CSR to info@evolutionpetroleum.com or
Evolution Petroleum Corporation
1155 Dairy Ashford StreetSuite 425Houston, Texas 77079
1Table of Contents
Letter to My Fellow Stakeholders
EnvironmentalOur Core Values
GovernanceOur Strategy
SocialOur Assets04
1207
3606
22082021 Corporate Sustainability Report2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Dear Stakeholders,
I am pleased to present Evolution’s inaugural Corporate Sustainability Report, or CSR. 
Evolution has a nearly two-decade long history of operating its business with integrity and high regard for corporate responsibility. With our inaugural CSR, we are pleased to provide greater communication to our stakeholders regarding our business practices, as well as to more clearly demonstrate our commitment to sustainable growth and ESG initiatives and practices. Our well-established track record of returning value to our shareholders through consistent dividends clearly differentiates us from the majority of other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. As we begin to further develop existing ESG standards and incorporate new ESG initiatives into our corporate culture, we look forward to providing ongoing data and qualitative information to document further value and thoughtfulness to our shareholders through these commitments. We take pride in our ability to evolve using technology and innovation to create sustainable value, and will apply that same mentality to our ESG initiatives.
Although we are presently a non-operator, we support and encourage sustainable and 
responsible development methods employed by our third-party operators in the fields in which we own an interest.  We believe that our investments in the right assets — long-life oil and natural gas fields where technology and minimal maintenance capex can be applied to extend production — represent a sustainable path forward for both our Company and our industry as a whole.
Over the last year we implemented an approach to respond to the increasing public desire 
for additional transparency into corporate ESG policies and practices. As we strategically plan for the long-term, we believe that every individual on our team at Evolution has a responsibility to ensure that we conduct business with the highest regards toward ESG and know that we can achieve greater successes when we work together. This year we formed an Letter to My Fellow Stakeholders
4
Letter to My Fellow Stakeholders
ESG Task Force composed of cross-functional employees, third-party advisors, and experts. 
Oversight of this group was provided by our senior management and Board of Directors to assist in the development of our inaugural CSR. Moving forward, these groups will also monitor our adherence to our ESG standards and initiatives. Evolution’s commitment to our people, safety, sustainability, communities, and the environment is and will continue to be an integral part of our culture.
As we look to the future, Evolution remains committed to maintaining and enhancing 
the high ethical standards and core values that have helped guide us throughout our tenured history. We will continually seek ways to improve our processes and measure our performance with respect to ESG.  I am appreciative and proud of the collective eff  orts of our Board members, employees, partners, and consultants as we have shaped our inaugural CSR and ESG commitments together. We have developed a fi  rst-class organization of management, technical, and fi  nancial people alike who have achieved signifi  cant success through a strong collaborative culture. We will continue building Evolution through accretive acquisitions and consistent return of capital to our shareholders, supported by our uncompromising commitment to ensure safe practices, abide by ethical operating standards, and safeguard the environment.
2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Jason E. Brown
President and Chief Executive Oﬃ   cer
Jason E. Brown
5Our Strategy
Our strategic focus is on increasing the value of our Company through the acquisition 
and development of long-life, low-decline assets that generate signi/f_icant cash /f_low, while rewarding shareholders through our common stock dividend program. In doing so, we depend on our /f_iscal discipline and conservative capital structure, which allows us to maintain low leverage while enhancing our portfolio through accretive acquisitions. We prioritize the alignment of our employees and directors with shareholders through their bene/f_icial ownership of the Company.
Our business and portfolio investment strategy remains centered on two key pillars:
(1) Includes cash dividends of ~$77 million and share repurchases of ~$4.0 million through September 
30, 2021.Pay Dividend
Return Capital to 
ShareholdersMaintain Strong Balance Sheet
$81MM
(1) Paid in 
Cash and Share Buybacks Since 2013Targeted Net Leverage of <1xLow  Leverage
Supporting our strategy are the following keys to our success, as well as ensuring we 
remain true to our core values:
Long-life, low-decline assets Low ongoing capital expenditures
Low geologic and operational risk High margin2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
6Our Core Values
Do the right thing
Honesty and accountability with all parties we work with
People are critical to our success
Partner with operators sharing our core values
Giving back to the communities in which we live and do businessExtensively evaluate potential acquisitions to ensure accretion
Ensure open and honest communicationSustain and prolong life of reserves
Supporting our employees in their personal commitments Create value through application of technology and innovationContinuous focus on returning capital to shareholders 
Maintain capital discipline and stakeholder transparency
Maximize performance and minimize our environmental footprintReaching greater accomplishments through close collaboration Promote sustained institutional knowledge through cross-functional teams Committed to developing and producing energy resources in 
environmentally, socially, and ethically respectful and responsible ways
Promote and maintain a safe and inclusive work environmentEmbrace a Culture of TeamworkIntegrity is Paramount
Invest in the Right Assets
Support the CommunityStrategically Plan for the Long-term2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
7Barnett 
ShaleHamilton
Dome
Delhi
Houston
(Corporate Headquarters)Our Assets2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Proved Reserves By 
Asset as of June 30, 2021, 23.4 MMBOEHamilton Dome PDP
1,851
Barnett PDP
13,059Delhi Proved
8,476Delhi PDP
6,663 Delhi PUD
1,813
MMBOE = One million barrels of oil equivalent (6 McF = 1 BOE)
8
Our Assets2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Delhi PUD
1,813
Our Assets
FYE
6/30/2019
FYE
6/30/2019MBOE MBOE
FYE
6/30/2020
FYE
6/30/2020FYE
6/30/2021
FYE
6/30/2021800
30,000600
22,500400
15,000200
7,5000
0Production
Total Reserves
Proved Reserves by Commodity as of June 30, 2021Crude NGL Natural Gas
Proved Probable Possible2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Natural Gas
35%Oil
36%NGL
29%
10Notes:
1. Equivalent oil reserves are de/f_ined as six McF of natural gas and 42 gallons of natural gas liquids (“NGL ”) to one barrel of oil conversion ratio, which re/f_lects energy equivalence and not price equivalence. Gas prices per McF and NGL prices per barrel often diﬀer signi/f_icantly from the energy equivalent amount of oil.
2. Reserves estimated by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, an independent petroleum engineering /f_irm.3. Estimates of Probable and Possible reserves are by their nature more speculative than estimates of Proved reserves and are subject to greater uncertainties and, 
accordingly, the likelihood of recovering those reserves is subject to substantially greater risk and the categories should not be aggregated.
Bbls = Barrels of oil or natural gas liquids (NGLs) McF = One thousand cubic feet of natural gas BOE = Barrel of oil equivalent (6 W = 1 BOE)
MBbls = Thousands of barrels of oil or NGLs MMcF = One million cubic feet of natural gas MBOE = One thousand BOEOur Assets
Production
EM-EP-000.AFYE
6/30/2019FYE
6/30/2020FYE
6/30/2021
Proved Reserves2Metric
Probable Reserves2, 3
Possible Reserves2, 3Core Producing Areas 1 2 3
Crude Oil, Bbls 626,879 638,464 554,888
Crude Oil, MBbls 7,616 8,226 8,420
Crude Oil, MBbls 4,056 2,649 2,541
Crude Oil, MBbls 3,664 2,572 2,506NGLs, Bbls 112,013 106,159 171,451
NGLs, MBbls 1,365 1,993 6,872
NGLs, MBbls 727 662 743
NGLs, MBbls 657 492 314Natural Gas, McF 459 1,087 963,496
Natural Gas, MMcF 0 0 48,571
Natural Gas, MMcF 0 0 0
Natural Gas, MMcF 0 0 0Equivalent, BOE 738,968 744,804 886,922
Equivalent, MBOE 8,981 10,219 23,387
Equivalent, MBOE 4,783 3,311 3,284
Equivalent, MBOE 4,321 3,064 2,8202021 Corporate Sustainability Report
11Environmental
We at Evolution recognize that the world’s climate 
continues to change. The environmental impact caused by these changes in climate is compelling every industry to examine how it operates. This is particularly true for companies and investors who invest in the oil and natural gas industry. 
We work with third-party operators that share our desire 
to operate and work with a high regard for ethics and responsibility, particularly for the natural environments in which they operate. We believe the operators we partner with share a common goal of achieving full compliance with regulatory requirements, while minimizing adverse impacts on the environment.2021 Corporate Sustainability ReportExtending the Life of Oil and 
Natural Gas Fields
Evolution currently owns non-operated 
interests in a combination of oil and natural gas assets that represent all three phases of oil and natural gas extraction, including:
• Primary recovery;
• Secondary recovery (i.e., 
water/f_lood); and 
• Tertiary recovery (i.e., carbon 
dioxide “CO
2”  /f_lood).
In /f_iscal year 2021, Evolution closed on 
the acquisition of certain non-operated natural gas and natural gas liquids assets located in the Barnett Shale of North Texas. These assets are an example of primary recovery, which is considered the /f_irst stage of oil and natural gas extraction and relies on the natural or initial reservoir pressure combined with arti/f_icial lift techniques such as pumps. 
This recent transaction diversi/f_ied our 
prior operations by adding a signi/f_icant component of natural gas. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) 
Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
14reports that natural gas is an eﬃcient 
and relatively clean burning fuel when produced without material methane leakage. Burning natural gas results in fewer CO
2 emissions when compared 
to other fuels like coal and gasoline to produce an equivalent amount of energy. This characteristic of natural gas has led to a recent increase in demand for natural gas to generate electricity in the United States. In its Annual Energy Outlook for 2021, the U.S. EIA projects that demand for natural gas will continue to increase through 2050; however, petroleum remains the most consumed fuel in the United States. We believe this recent transaction provides us with an investment in lower carbon emitting fuels while continuing to support the market’s energy demands.
Evolution’s non-operated assets located in 
the Hamilton Dome Field in Hot Springs County, Wyoming are produced using secondary recovery methods, which utilize water injection (water/f_looding) in order to maintain or increase reservoir pressure and direct the displacement of oil into producing wells. With our partner in the Hamilton Dome /f_ield, we have shown our desire to limit our environmental footprint by working within the local community to provide recycled water for agricultural and wildlife use. We support our third-party operator as it works with the appropriate regulatory agencies to preserve and protect wildlife species and their habitats by limiting activities during certain times of the year that are deemed disruptive.  
Primary and secondary recovery phases 
typically extract between 10% and 40% of the reservoir’s original oil in place. Tertiary recovery methods are used to recover the remaining extractable volumes over an extended period. Tertiary recovery methods allow oil to be produced that would otherwise have been left in place, thus extending the life of the /f_ield.  
Delhi Field in Louisiana utilizes tertiary 
recovery methods. Tertiary recovery, also 
known as enhanced oil recovery, employs injection of gas, heat, or chemicals into the reservoir in order to change the physical properties of the oil and aid in its extraction. 
Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
15The following schematic diagram shows how CO2 is injected into the reservoir at Delhi 
Field to recover stranded oil on a reservoir as well as granular scale.Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
16Delhi Field operations utilize gas injection 
for tertiary recovery by pumping CO2
into the producing reservoir. CO2
injection, or CO2 /f_looding, is typically 
used wherever CO2 is readily available for 
production or purchase and transport. Naturally occurring reserves of CO
2 are 
present in the Jackson Dome Field in Central Mississippi, northeast of Jackson, Mississippi and east of the Delhi Field. 
With an industry-wide increase in 
consideration of air emissions and water usage, our ownership interests in the Delhi and Hamilton Dome /f_ields are examples of how the energy industry seeks to reduce the overall “net” impact on the environment while meeting the energy and feedstock needs of society.  Through innovative and responsible application of production technologies such as water/f_looding at Hamilton Dome and CO
2 /f_looding at Delhi, the life of these 
/f_ields can be extended for many years to come. Evolution is proud to partner with operators that share our core values of innovation and commitment to producing energy resources in environmentally responsible ways.Working with Our Third-Party 
Operators
As a non-operator of our assets, we do not 
have direct control over environmental initiatives at an asset-level. However, we believe it is important to partner with third-party operators that share our core values and are committed to being environmental stewards as they responsibly produce energy resources.
Moving forward, and as in the past, we 
will continue to support our third-party operators in the following practices:
• Compliance with all federal, state, 
and local laws;
• Minimizing emissions; 
• Reducing the amount of /f_laring of 
natural gas;
• Continuing to primarily utilize 
recaptured CO
2  in the Delhi Field, 
which helps reduce our carbon 
footprint as a Company;
• Protecting wildlife;
• Transparency; • Protecting access to safe 
groundwater in the communities 
near our operations; Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
17• Maintaining well integrity and 
stability;
• Minimizing the number of incidents 
associated with spills and other 
accidents through adequate training and supervision of all employees and contractors; and
• Retiring or plugging and 
abandoning all well bores and related facilities in compliance with all applicable regulations so as to reduce any future environmental hazards.
We recognize that the expectations, 
requirements, and responsibilities of operators regarding safeguarding the environment and environmental stewardship continue to evolve. We are, and will continue to be, committed to supporting our third-party operators as they respond to these expectations, requirements, and responsibilities.
While we currently only own non-
operated interests in oil and natural gas properties, we continue to evaluate targeted, high rate of return opportunities to invest in long-lived assets in which Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
we would potentially serve as the operator of the oil and natural gas assets. Our evaluation process is focused on sustainability, pro/f_itability, and safety, among other factors. We seek opportunities to increase long-term value through optimal reservoir management as well as ways to improve the overall eﬃciency of our operations by lowering per unit costs and reducing product losses through improved processes while ensuring the continued safety of our employees and contractors.
Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) 
Emissions
We do not report Scope 1 GHG, or 
direct, emissions to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) as we are not the operator of our assets, nor do we have /f_inancial control over our oil and natural gas assets and operations. As previously discussed, we prefer to partner with third-party operators that work to reduce their Scope 1 GHG emissions, and we encourage them to accelerate their eﬀorts as appropriate in this regard. For example, the operator of 
18the Delhi Field utilizes solar panels at each 
well site for supervisory control and data acquisition (“SCADA”) oversight as well as for several chemical pumps. In addition, at the date of this report, none of our third-party operators participate in any continuous /f_laring.
As a non-operator, the Company 
is reporting the estimated Scope 2 GHG emissions for its corporate oﬃce located in Houston, Texas. Scope 2 GHG emissions are based on indirect emissions representing purchased electricity. Evolution is one of many tenants leasing space in its corporate oﬃce building and does not know the actual amount of electricity used in its space. As such, we are estimating our consumption by multiplying the electricity purchased for the entire building by the percentage of the /f_loor area that we occupy. 
Evolution is using a calculated megawatt 
per hour (“MWh”) equivalent of carbon dioxide (CO
2-e) produced of 
approximately 931.7 pounds of CO2
emissions per MWh, which is based on the EPA’s Emission & Generation Resource Integrated Database (“eGRID”) that publishes an Emissions Factor Hub that contains the most recent eGRID subregion emissions factors. As our corporate oﬃce is located in Houston, Texas, we are utilizing the emissions factor provided for the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (“ERCOT”). Our lease began on June 1, 2019 and we are reporting for the relevant periods since that time.
Notes:
NA: Not AvailableFYE
6/30/2019FYE
6/30/2020FYE
6/30/2021Metric
Corporate Facilities Scope 2 CO2-e
(in estimated megawatt hours)
(in metric tons based on estimated 
megawatt hours)NA 15.083 14.681
NA 6.37 6.20Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
19Our corporate oﬃces are located in an 
eight-story building. The building is equipped with Daiken magnetic bearing chillers, the most eﬃcient chillers currently available, which were installed in 2015. At the same time, a new building automation system was installed along with variable frequency drive (“VFD”) on all motors to promote additional operational eﬃciencies.  Also in 2015, a re/f_lective roof system was installed on the building. All common area lights and all parking lights are light emitting diode (“LED”), which require less use of electricity.  Additionally, motion detection lighting sensors installed in our oﬃce space and the building’s restrooms help to minimize our overall energy use. 
FYE
6/30/2019FYE
6/30/2020FYE
6/30/2021Metric
Corporate Facilities fresh water usage
(in US gallons)
In addition to providing an estimate of fresh water usage in US gallons, we are also converting that estimate 
into thousand cubic meters (1 thousand cubic meters = 264,172.052 US gallons). Finally, with our lease beginning on June 1, 2019 we are reporting for the relevant periods since that time.(in thousand cubic meters (m
3))NA 17,174 16,335
NA 0.065 0.062
Notes:
NA: Not AvailableEnvironmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
To further reduce our emissions and 
whenever possible, we encourage our Board members, employees, consultants, and any other person or group we may work with to attend meetings via video or telephone conference rather than traveling via car or airplane.
Water Management and 
LandscapingSASB EM-EP-140a.1
As a non-operator and a non-reporting 
entity of water used in our oil and natural gas operations, the Company is reporting fresh-water usage for its corporate oﬃce. As discussed previously, Evolution is one of many tenants leasing space in its 
20corporate oﬃce building and does not 
know the actual amount of water used speci/f_ically for its space. As such, we are estimating our fresh water usage (both inside the building and outside irrigation) by multiplying the total water usage for the entire building by the percentage of the /f_loor area that we occupy.
To minimize the usage of fresh water, 
all water /f_ixtures in our corporate oﬃce building are water saver-based that include automatic and hands-free operation. The building’s outside irrigation system utilizes a satellite monitoring system that only irrigates the areas that need watering during a particular cycle. In addition, landscaping for the building and related properties only includes indigenous or other plant material rated for the Houston and South Texas climate to help reduce the amount of water necessary for maintenance. 
Waste Management and Oﬃce 
Maintenance
Our corporate oﬃce building does not  
generate hazardous waste. For non-hazardous waste, we utilize our corporate oﬃce building’s waste services and follow their waste recycling program. In addition, janitorial service for our building is provided using “Green Cleaning, ” whereby all products used are water-based, biodegradable, and environmentally friendly. Also, included in the property management’s contracts with service providers for the building is the requirement that vendors must follow all relevant EPA Guidelines and Sustainable Practices as a part of doing business.
Our Team’s Commitment
Our team at Evolution is striving to improve our environmental impact 
and performance with respect to our environmental goals and initiatives. We are committed to remaining informed and making environmentally responsible decisions as we conduct business.Environmental2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
21Social
Our employees are critical to our success. We place a 
strong emphasis on attracting, hiring, and developing a talented and diverse workforce, and endeavor to support our employees through market-competitive compensation and benefi  t programs. We encourage the advancement of the safety, health, and professional development of our employees and believe that the key to our long-term success is providing an environment that promotes honesty, integrity, and diversity. We believe treating people fairly results in higher performance and provides greater transparency to all stakeholders. We also encourage the eff  orts of our employees in enhancing the quality of life in our local communities. We have corporate initiatives that we believe support our employees’ eff  orts in the communities in which they live. We look forward to the continued positive impact we, as a Company, are making.2021 Corporate Sustainability ReportWorkforce Health & Safety
SASB EM-EP-320a.2
We are committed to utilizing quali/f_ied 
and competent individuals to perform all aspects of our work. From time to time, we engage vendors, contractors, and/or consultants to perform various short- and long-term projects for the business (collectively, “consultants”). We work to protect the occupational health and safety of our employees and consultants in all facilities and locations. Our primary workplace for our employees and consultants is our corporate oﬃce space 
located in Houston, Texas. We are proud to provide a safe and secure workplace, and the policies and procedures 
we have implemented are intended to protect the health and well-being of our workforce and other onsite individuals. As a non-operator, in the capacity that we are able, we seek to:
• Abide by applicable environmental, 
health, and safety laws and 
regulations; 
• Provide a safe workplace that 
ensures all of our employees and consultants understand the importance of the role that each individual plays in maintaining a safe work environment;
• Provide knowledge, training, tools, 
and other necessary resourcesfor employees and consultants to perform their work safely and understand their individual accountability in maintaining a safe work environment;
• Work with our third-party operators 
as appropriate to support the health or safety of their workers’;
• Authorize Stop Work Authority 
whereby any employee or consultant may raise a reasonable concern about safety and cease all work until the issue is addressed or resolved;
• Educate employees and consultants 
about the importance of workplace safety through safety meetings and training;
• Provide employees and consultants 
with relevant information and plans regarding proper procedures in the event of a /f_ire, oﬃce lockdown, natural disaster, or other high-risk scenarios;
Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
24•Promote and encourage transparent 
communication regarding health, 
safety, and security concerns in the workplace between all employees, consultants, senior management, and the Board of Directors (“Board”);
• Subscribe to local weather and 
natural disaster alerts to stay informed and safeguard our employees and consultants, including providing real time communications to all employees and consultants;
• Keep the workplace clean and 
free of any hazards, spills, or other damage that could potentially pose a threat to the health and safety of employees and consultants;
• Perform annual visual inspections 
of our corporate oﬃce or other Company-operated facilities for any damage or situations that could pose a risk to the health and safety of employees and consultants; • Ensure our facilities are disinfected 
by custodial staﬀ regularly to mitigate the potential spread of germs and viruses; and
• Provide employees and consultants 
with health and medical supplies as needed, including hand sanitizer and disposable masks.
Adverse Weather Events
Our corporate oﬃce 
is in Houston, Texas. Due to our geographic location, we are prone 
to hurricanes, /f_loods, tornadoes, and occasional winter storms (“adverse weather events”). These types of adverse weather events can impact our employees and consultants when they occur and cause disruptions to our day-to-day operations. As such, we have designated a Health and Safety Coordinator that monitors forecasted adverse weather events and keeps all employees and consultants informed of potential risks and hazards. The Health and Safety Coordinator utilizes resources such as emergency alerts and guidance from local and national government agencies, and other reputable weather forecasting Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
25services to share relevant updates with 
employees and consultants in real time. 
In the instance that an adverse weather 
event interrupts our normal oﬃce 
operations, the Health and Safety 
Coordinator will work closely with 
senior management to implement a 
safe working plan for all employees and 
consultants. Employees and consultants 
will be discouraged from commuting to 
the corporate o ﬃce or other Company-
operated facilities if the Company deems 
conditions unsafe as our employees and 
consultants are equipped to work from 
home. Employees and consultants are not 
penalized for an inability to work from 
home due to being directly aﬀected by an 
adverse weather event.
COVID-19 Response
In response to the COVID-19 global 
pandemic in March 2020, we began to 
closely follow and adhere to guidance 
from both the U.S. Center of Disease 
Control and Harris County government 
oﬃcials. In March 2020, we adopted
a COVID-19 Contingency Plan toensure safety of our staﬀ. Once thepredetermined trigger was met – 1,000 local cases – we transitioned employees and consultants to remote work. In order to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we enabled our employees and consultants to work remotely from their homes, which has resulted in minimal disruptions to our business operations. We invested in our employees’ and consultants’ work from home success by providing ergonomic workstations and cameras for video meetings.
As the spread of COVID-19 dampens and vaccines continue to be available, we have developed a 
health and safety plan for employees and consultants to return to our corporate oﬃce based on guidance provided byrelevant government and health agencies.
Reporting Workplace Incidents
We do not currently operate any of the physical oil and natural gas assets in which we own an interest and therefore do not report or record workplace Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
26incidents on behalf of our third-party 
operators. However, Evolution regularly discusses pertinent health safety matters in monthly and annual operational meetings with its third-party operators. 
We monitor and record injuries, and 
work-related fatalities in our workplace. For these purposes, Evolution’s primary workplace is considered to be its oﬃ   ce space located in Houston, Texas. In the last three /f_i  scal years ended June 30, Evolution recorded zero workplace injuries or work-related fatalities.
Workplace Security
Evolution seeks to provide a secure workplace for all employees, consultants, and other individuals that interact within its corporate oﬃ   ce. We do not tolerate or condone violence, the threat of violence, intimidation, harassment, or other disruptive conditions that may impact the safety, security, and wellbeing of any persons in the workplace. We have implemented and participate in the following security procedures and measures to ensure an individual’s safety while in our corporate oﬃ   ce:• Building access by key card only 
before and after regular business 
hours;
• Evolution oﬃ   ce space access by 
door code only;
• Oﬃ   ce building premises patrolled 
by building management provided security team; and 
• Prohibiting possession of /f_i  rearms 
in conformance with state and local laws.
In the event of an incident, violation, 
or emergency, we collect appropriate information for our own records and Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
27report the incident to the appropriate 
authorities as needed.
Workforce Management
We are committed to human rights principles in our workplace. Evolution values employee input, prioritizes engagement of its workforce, and provides fair and competitive wages for its employees. We strive to adhere to federal, state, and local labor laws.
We value and treat all employees, 
consultants, vendors, contractors, service providers, and business partners equally. Evolution is committed to providing equal employment opportunities in accordance with laws of the United States to all quali/f_ied individuals without regard for:
• Race;
• Color;• National origin or ancestry;• Genetic information• Religion or creed; • Age;• Sex (gender, including gender 
identity);
• Sexual orientation;• Marital Status;• Pregnancy;•  Medical condition related to 
pregnancy or childbirth;
• Disability;• Ethnicity; and• Military status.
We foster a workplace free of harassment 
and retaliation, and do not tolerate discrimination. Our employees and consultants are expected to sign an annual acknowledgement that they have received and reviewed the employee handbook, which includes con/f_irmation of Evolution’s Workforce Policies. The Company also provides annual training for all employees and consultants. During this training, the Company reviews Workforce Policies as well as provide other areas of training to further support its goal of providing a workplace free of harassment and retaliation.
Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
28Our employee working hours follow 
all applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Paid time oﬀ (“PTO”) is provided by Evolution for employees to be away from work due to, but not limited to, vacation, personal or family member’s health needs, and other personal requirements. 
Employee Recruitment, 
Engagement & Retention
We believe we have built a team of 
talented individuals that are focused on cultivating a culture of teamwork, innovation, honesty, and accountability. We work to ensure our entire team is aligned with our business goals. 
We engage and empower our employees 
and consultants through regular team meetings. During these meetings, we provide updates on projects (both ongoing and upcoming) and routine 
ongoing activities. These meetings 
give each employee and consultant 
the opportunity to Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
participate in a discussion about our business and associated challenges. Our team meetings help senior management identify areas where additional support may be needed on a real time basis. 
During our team meetings, we recognize 
the accomplishments of the team for the week and establish targets for the week ahead.  We view our team meetings as an opportunity for knowledge management, ensuring the cross-pollination between disciplines to strengthen our corporate eﬃciency and managerial execution. We believe that routine engagement with our employees and consultants helps to align them with Evolution’s goals and provides a sense of ownership and deeper understanding of how each individual employee and consultant contributes to the Company’s accomplishments, thus improving overall team morale. We pride ourselves on transparent communication at all levels of the organization.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, 
our employees and consultants have maintained and developed face-to-face 
29Professional Development
Evolution recognizes the value of the 
continual professional development of its employees. To foster a thriving professional environment, we encourage all of our employees and leadership to engage in their respective professional communities and to participate in training and professional seminar opportunities related to our business throughout the year.  Evolution reimburses all employees for expenses associated with approved professional development, including, but not limited to:
• Attending conferences, seminars, 
and networking events related to 
the employee’s /f_ield of work;
• Maintaining memberships in 
professional organizations related to the employee’s /f_ield of work;
• Maintaining professional licenses as 
required; and
• Participating in classes, seminars, 
and tutorials to enhance skills.Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
relationships with one another through 
use of video meeting capabilities and instant messaging services. We are proud of the agility, motivation, and dedication that our employees and consultants have exhibited throughout the challenges of working during the COVID-19 pandemic.
As our success is dependent on our team, 
we seek to attract and retain talented people with our work environment as well as our competitive pay and bene/f_its package. For our full-time employees, our bene/f_its package, as determined by the Board, includes medical, dental, and vision insurance, 401(k) contributions based on a portion of the employee’s base salary, short and long-term performance-based and service-based incentive pay (i.e., annual bonuses and stock awards), and PTO. Our employees have access to gym and exercise facilities within our oﬃce building. We also oﬀer employees the opportunity to participate in our charitable donation matching program and PTO to volunteer with an organization of their choosing. 
30FY 2019
6/30/2019Units FY 2020
6/30/2020FY 2021 FY 2022
6/30/2021 9/30/2022Workforce Demographics
5 # Employees
Number of Board members
Women in management
Caucasian
Under 40Other 
Over 40Male
Women on the BoardFemale % (#)
% (#)
% (#)
% (#)% (#)
#
#
% (#)
% (#)4 5 7
80% (4) 75% (3) 100% (5) 71% (5)
0 0 0 0
100% (5) 100% (4) 60% (3) 29% (2)20% (1) 25% (1) 0% (0) 29% (2)
80% (4) 75%/uni00A0(3) 80% (4) 86% (6)5 5 5 5
20% (1) 25% (1) 20% (1) 14% (1)20% (1) 20% (1) 20% (1) 20% (1)
0% (0) 0% (0) 40% (2) 71% (5)Diversity & Inclusion 
We value diversity and inclusion throughout our talent acquisition, management, and 
professional development practices, at all levels of our workforce, including senior management and the Board. Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee considers diversity as part of its nominating process in accordance with its Committee Charter.
We strive to be an equal opportunity employer in all areas of our hiring and 
employment practices, meeting all federal and state employment laws. Our policies and practices support diversity of thought, perspective, gender, race, ethnicity, culture, and professional experience. We declare as a matter of policy that there shall be no unlawful discrimination among the entire body of employees or applicants for employment based on physical or mental impairments. 
Workforce Demographics
The following table shows our workforce demographics:Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
31Stakeholder Engagement
Evolution is committed to regular and 
collaborative stakeholder engagement, and we identify stakeholders as those groups upon whom our success depends, as well as those who are aﬀected by our business. We view this area of active engagement as a key tenet of eﬀective and responsible corporate citizenship. 
A variety of methods are utilized 
to engage in communication with our stakeholders, including broad dissemination of information through the use of press releases, quarterly earnings conference calls, corporate presentations, and other events and materials available through our website (www.evolutionpetroleum.com). We also leverage more interpersonal methods of communications, including in-person, telephonic, and web-based meetings. 
Following interactions with our stakeholders, we provide feedback throughout the organization to promote further alignment with our stakeholders’ interests, as appropriate. 
Human Rights
SASB EM-EP-210a.1SASB EM-EP-210a.2SASB EM-EP-210a.3
We respect and uphold basic human 
rights in the workplace. As a result, our Board has adopted a Human Rights Policy and oversees the Company’s compliance Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
32thereunder. Our Human Rights Policy 
applies to all locations where we practice business.
Evolution aims to promote and protect 
human rights, as such, we:
• Do not tolerate harassment in the 
workplace;
• Support and protect the rights and 
equality of each person, including 
minority groups and women;
• Prohibit any form of discrimination;
• Do not condone human traﬃcking,  
slavery, or child labor; 
• Respect employee privacy;• Respect freedom of expression, 
particularly, but not limited to, 
when exercising an employee’s right to stop unsafe work (i.e., Stop Work Authority) and report violations of company policy; and
• Provide fair and competitive wages 
and bene/f_its in compliance with national and local laws.
We intend to have a positive impact in 
the communities in which we conduct business. We interact regularly with our stakeholders in order to receive feedback on our performance and adherence to policies. As of the 
date of this report, we are not aware of any salient risks posed to human rights by our business operations or interactions. 
Our employees and consultants are 
expected to sign an acknowledgement that they have reviewed the employee handbook annually, which includes our Human Rights Policy along with attending annual training sessions. In /f_iscal year 2022, the Company will also be providing an annual training for all employees and consultants. During this training, the Company will review the Human Rights Policy as well as provide other areas of training to further support its goal of respecting and upholding Human Rights in the communities in which it works and operates.Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
33Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
We respect the land, culture, history, and 
customs of indigenous peoples. We do not currently operate, conduct business, or have net proved reserves on any lands of indigenous peoples or in or near areas of con/f_lict. Should our operations or business activities coincide with lands of indigenous peoples or other culturally signi/f_icant areas, we will work to comply with all appropriate rules, regulations, and laws.
We maintain a hotline which operates 
24/7/365 and allows anonymous and con/f_idential reporting for employees, consultants, and contractors, including the ability to report concerns or violations of our Human Rights Policy through the phone or internet  (Phone: 877-628-7489 / Website: www.epm.alertline.com).
34Social2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Philanthropy & Community 
Engagement
We desire to have a positive impact in in 
the communities in which our employees live and conduct business. Evolution is proud that its employees are generous and charitable with their time and money, and we look forward to supporting these eﬀorts. We have a comprehensive program that enhances the contributions made by our employees to our communities. This program includes:
• Donation Matching: Providing 
each employee with an annual
Company donation match of up to $500 to a 501(c)3 eligible charity or non-pro/f_it organization of their choosing; and
• Volunteerism: Encouraging each 
employee to use one paid working day annually to donate their time to a 501(c)3 eligible charity or non-pro/f_it organization of their choosing.
35Governance
We are committed to high standards of conduct and 
ethics in order to contribute to the sustainability of our business. Our Board and its committees are responsible for our strategy and governance. At Evolution, we believe it takes a complete team eff  ort to maintain an honest and ethical environment. The performance of Evolution is the sum of the ethics of our talented workforce and all employees are expected to adhere to high standards of personal integrity. We appreciate our team members’ collective eff  orts as we strive for the long-term success and sustainability of our Company. Our compensation programs are intended to provide a direct link between pay and performance and are aligned with Company goals, including attracting and retaining top talent. All of our employees participate in similar incentive compensation programs that are measured in part based on the same set of performance goals that have been developed to increase value to our shareholders and stakeholders. To further motivate its management’s focus on the sustainability of those eff  orts, beginning in fi  scal year 2022, the Company added an ESG component to its short-term compensation evaluation metrics.2021 Corporate Sustainability ReportESG Oversight
To further enhance Evolution’s and our 
Board’s governance of ESG matters, in /f_iscal year 2021 we formed a managerial ESG Task Force composed of a multi-disciplinary team of employees, consultants, and third-party advisors. This team is responsible for evaluating risks and opportunities, developing policies, practices, information and communications, and providing recommendations and reports related to ESG to our CEO and to the Board through the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (“NCGC”). Our NCGC charter re/f_lects the NCGC’s role and responsibility in providing strategic oversight of our ESG reporting and related eﬀorts.   The NCGC meets periodically to consider all matters brought before it, including ESG. 
Board Composition
Our directors are elected annually by the shareholders to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until their successors are duly elected and quali/f_ied. The minimum number of directors is set forth in Evolution’s bylaws and may be increased by a majority vote of the Board. 
The Board has four standing committees: 
the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which are composed of directors deemed “independent” under NYSE standards. Our fourth committee is the Investment Committee.
In June 2018, upon the recommendation 
of the NCGC, the Board adopted a policy that nominees for election to the Board shall be less than seventy-/f_ive years of age, including directors being renominated. This limitation may, however, be speci/f_ically waived by unanimous vote of the disinterested members of the Board, as appropriate and in the best interests of Evolution in any case. In such case, the Board shall specify the age at which such director shall not be able to stand for re-election.Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
38The following table has our Board composition for our /f_iscal year ending June 30, 2021:
The NCGC has determined that, at a minimum, nominees for directors should possess 
the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity, and values, and be committed to representing the long-term interests of the Company’s shareholders. They must also have an inquisitive and objective perspective, practical wisdom, and mature judgment. The Company endeavors to have a Board representing diverse experience in areas that are relevant to the Company’s business activities. Directors must be willing to devote suﬃcient time to carrying out their duties and responsibilities eﬃciently, and should be committed to serve on the Board for an extended period of time.
Prior to nominating a candidate for election to the Board, the NCGC reviews the 
quali/f_ications of each candidate. The NCGC considers diversity of thought, perspective, gender, race, ethnicity, culture, and business and professional experience that can bene/f_it us by increasing the range of skills and perspectives available to our Board. Members will be selected without regard to race, gender, religious belief, ancestry, national origin, or disability. Our Board believes that adherence to these principles will provide an environment and practices that will yield the best return for our shareholders.Metric Topic
Independence (%)
Average tenure
Independent Presiding/Lead DirectorKey board committee independence (%)
Average ageGender diversity (%)80%
100%
Yes20%
~13 years
~61 yearsGovernance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
39Board Practices
During /f_iscal year 2021, our Board met nine times. Each director, during the period for 
which he or she was a director in /f_iscal year 2021, attended 100% of the meetings of the Board and 100% of the of meetings held by all committees of the Board on which such director served.
Compensation Practices
Evolution’s compensation programs are designed to incentivize its employees to build meaningful shareholder and stakeholder value over the long-term. Our primary strategy is to achieve alignment between shareholders, stakeholders, and our employee team. Our compensation practices provide a substantial portion of our employees’ compensation in the form of short-term cash incentives and long-term equity incentives. This strategy has complemented our life cycle of long-lived assets, Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Executive
Leadership
x x x x x x
x x x x x
x x x x x
x x x x
x x xEnergy
IndustryPast or 
Present CEOPast or 
Present CFOOutside
Board 
ExperienceFinancial
Robert S. Herlin
Marjorie A. HargraveEdward J. DiPaolo
Kelly W. LoydWilliam E. DozierIn determining whether to nominate an incumbent director for re-election, the 
NCGC evaluates each incumbent’s continued service, in light of the Board’s collective requirements, at the time such director comes up for re-election. Currently, our Board embodies a diverse set of experiences, quali/f_ications, attributes and skills as shown below:
40and as a relatively young organization 
in terms of overall corporate lifecycle, we have delivered a signi/f_icant portion of employee compensation through the use of equity-based awards. The result has been the alignment of employees’ interests with those of our shareholders and conserving cash to invest in operations. The Compensation Committee believes share ownership by the Company’s employees is an essential aspect of linking the actions and goals of management with the interests of our shareholders. All employees are required by policy to retain a de/f_ined percentage of their equity awards during their employment.
The Compensation Committee structures 
compensation to provide a direct link between pay and performance. Our compensation programs are intended to be clear and not overly complicated in an eﬀort to allow all employees to understand how their behavior and actions impact corporate performance, and ultimately their compensation. In support, we have adopted an egalitarian approach to compensation whereby every employee receives grants of equity-based awards and participates in the incentive compensation program. To foster an atmosphere of teamwork, a portion of all employees compensation is based on the same set of corporate performance goals focusing on maximizing value for shareholders and stakeholders. 
Our compensation programs have been constructed to provide employees with 
incentives to increase shareholder value over the long-term, while avoiding excessive risk-taking in the short term. A signi/f_icant portion of all employees’ compensation has, and will continue to be, paid out over multiple years through equity grants vesting over multi-year periods. In establishing performance goals for compensation programs, the Compensation Committee has utilized a mix of various metrics, including sustainability, /f_inancial performance, and execution to avoid excessive weight on any single criterion.
Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
41Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
Shareholder RightsMetric
MetricTopic
TopicSay on pay support (%)
Annual election of DirectorsAnti-hedging policy
Shareholder ability to amend bylawsESG linked executive compensation
Poison pill plan in placeStock ownership guidelines for Executives and Directors
Majority voting for all Directors in uncontested electionsAnti-pledging policy
One share – one voteClawback policy
Proxy accessFY 2019 – 97.6%, FY 2020 – 94.2%
YesYes
YesYes, beginning FY2022
NoNo
YesNo
YesYes
Yes
Compensation Practices
42Business Ethics & Transparency
SASB EM-EP-510a.1SASB EM-EP-510a.2
We are committed to conducting our 
business honestly and ethically. We work to improve the quality of our services, products, and operations, and will maintain a reputation for honesty, fairness, respect, responsibility, integrity, trust, and sound business judgment. No illegal or unethical conduct on the part of our directors, oﬃcers, employees, or their aﬃliates is in Evolution’s best interest. We are all expected to adhere to high standards of personal integrity, and we will not compromise our principles for a short-term advantage. Our Board provides oversight designed to help ensure ethical business practices throughout the organization and with all external stakeholders.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) is located on 
our website, along with other key governance documents, at https://www.evolutionpetroleum.com/sustainability/governance/. The Code addresses a wide range of business practices and procedures and sets out basic principles to guide all directors, oﬃcers, and employees of Evolution. The Code is provided to all directors, oﬃcers, employees, and consultants, and they are expected to conduct themselves accordingly. It is also provided to, and expected to be followed by, Evolution’s other signi/f_icant agents and representatives, including consultants and contractors.  
The Code includes discussion concerning 
bribery. At Evolution, no bribes, kickbacks, or other similar remuneration or consideration may be given to any person or organization – both domestic or foreign – in order to attract or in/f_luence business activity. Our directors, oﬃcers, and employees are also prohibited from receiving or providing gifts, gratuities, fees, or bonuses as an inducement to attract or in/f_luence business activity. No entertainment should ever be oﬀered, given, or accepted by any director, oﬃcer, or employee (or any family member of any such person) in connection with our business activities unless it: (a) is 
Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
43consistent with customary business 
practices; (b) is not excessive in value; (c) cannot be construed as a bribe or payoﬀ; and (d) does not violate any laws or regulations.
Our ethical standards are built on obeying 
the law – both in letter and spirit. All employees, consultants, contractors, vendors, oﬃcers, and directors are expected to respect and obey the laws of the cities, states, and countries in which we operate.  It should be noted that all of our oil and natural gas reserves are located in the United States. 
Although not all employees, consultants, 
oﬃcers, and directors are expected to know the details of all laws, rules, and regulations, each individual should know enough to seek advice from supervisors, managers, or other appropriate personnel when appropriate. We require compliance with insider-trading laws and hold training sessions regarding insider-trading laws and anti-corruption as necessary for our employees, management, and directors. We communicate “non-trading windows” when invoked under SEC rules and regulations in addition to standard recurring “non-trading windows. ”
A violation of the Code by any director, 
oﬃcer, employee, or consultant is subject to disciplinary action, including possible termination of employment. The degree of discipline imposed may be in/f_luenced by whether the person who violated this Code voluntarily disclosed the violation and cooperated with Evolution in any subsequent investigation. In some cases, a violation of the Code may constitute a criminal oﬀense that is subject to prosecution by federal or state authorities.
Directors, oﬃcers, employees, and 
consultants are directed to promptly report any unethical, dishonest or illegal behavior, or any other violation of the Code or of other policies and procedures. We maintain a hotline which operates 24/7/365 and allows anonymous and con/f_idential reporting via phone or internet (Phone: 877-628-7489 / Website: www.epm.alertline.com). Reports may also be submitted via mail to our oﬃce: 
Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
44c/o Evolution Petroleum Corporation, 
1155 Dairy Ashford, Suite 425, Houston, TX 77079-3011. 
Our policy is not to allow retaliation 
for a report of unethical, dishonest, or illegal behavior, or of any other violation of the Code or of other policies and procedures, if the report about another person’s conduct is made in good faith by a director, oﬃcer, employee, or consultant. Directors, oﬃcers, and employees are expected to cooperate in internal investigations regarding possible unethical, dishonest, or illegal behavior or any other possible violation of this Code or of other policies and procedures.
All of our reporting procedures 
can be found in the “Governance” subsection of our website (https://www.evolutionpetroleum.com/sustainability/governance/).
Political Engagement
Evolution does not make corporate contributions to individual candidates or political committees supporting candidates in federal, state, or local elections, and we do not sponsor a political action committee; nor does the Company take or make public comments regarding policies that are overtly political in nature.  To communicate our views on legislative and regulatory matters aﬀecting our operations and industry, we may engage in the legislative and regulatory processes through various trade associations, such as the Independent Petroleum Association of America (“IPAA”) and the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”). This policy does not prohibit any director, oﬃcer, employee, or consultant from exercising their civic rights provided that such exercise is done so explicitly as an individual and not as a representative of the Company.
Reserves Valuation and Capital 
ExpendituresSASB EM-EP-420a.4
Approximately 36% of our proved oil 
and natural gas reserves as of June 30, 2021 were crude oil, 35% were natural gas, and 29% were natural gas liquids. Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
45As such, we are heavily impacted by 
movements in crude oil prices, which also in/f_luence natural gas and natural gas liquids prices. The price we receive for our production signi/f_icantly impacts our revenue, pro/f_itability, access to capital, and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and their prices are subject to wide /f_luctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. The prices we receive for our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the direction of any future climate change regulations. 
Recent studies by the International 
Energy Agency (“IEA”) suggest that, even in a carbon-constrained future scenario, Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
demand for natural gas will continue to grow for the next 10 years, and oil and natural gas will continue to make up approximately half of the overall energy mix for the next 20 years. On May 7, 2021, we closed on the acquisition of a non-operated interest in the Barnett Shale located in North Texas; the assets primarily produce natural gas. As a result, the Company’s proved reserves pro/f_ile evolved from 20% natural gas liquids as of June 30, 2020 to 64% natural gas and natural gas liquids as of June 30, 2021.  
Our property interests are not operated 
by us and involve other third-party working interest owners. While we have limited ability to in/f_luence or control the operations or future development 
46Management of the Legal & 
Regulatory EnvironmentSASB EM-EP-530a.1
Crude oil and natural gas operations are 
subject to extensive federal, state, and local government regulations, which continue to evolve. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of /f_low of crude oil and natural gas from wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. 
There are numerous federal, state, and 
local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, by-products thereof, the emission of CO
2 or other 
greenhouse gases, and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. These laws and regulations may aﬀect the costs, manner, and feasibility of our operations currently Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
of such properties, we work with our operators and discuss compliance with environmental, safety, climate change, and other regulations as appropriate, as well as the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties.
We continuously evaluate the business 
to identify risks and opportunities. We consider multiple pricing scenarios when forming our forecast, budget, and long-term plans. These same principles also apply as we pursue the acquisition of compelling non-operated, as well as operated, producing assets generating cash /f_low at attractive valuations with upside potential and optimization opportunities.
47being managed by third-party operators 
and require us to make signi/f_icant expenditures in order to comply. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages, whether actual or not, caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease or from nearby properties. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the eﬀects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modi/f_ication of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse eﬀect on us, such as diminishing the demand for our products through legislative enactment of proposed new penalties, /f_ines and/or taxes on carbon that could have the eﬀect of raising prices to the end user.
Data Security & Privacy
The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, processing, and /f_inancial activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, manage operations, process and record /f_inancial and operating data, analyze 
seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and third-party partners. 
Our technologies, systems, networks, 
seismic data, reserves information, or other proprietary information, and those of our operators, vendors, suppliers, customers, and other business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches. Cyber-attacks or information security breaches could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or could otherwise lead to the disruption of our business operations or other operational disruptions in our exploration or production operations. 
At Evolution, we leverage a security policy 
that is multi-faceted and designed to minimize the impact of malicious software (i.e., computer virus attacks, worms, etc.) to our information technology (“IT”) Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
48environment. We meet periodically to identify legal, governmental, and other external 
regulatory requirements for their relevancy to our IT practices. We perform testing of our IT control environment to ensure compliance with our policies and practices as part of our annual audit process.  Also, we maintain appropriate insurance coverage to protect us from loss due to social engineering or computer fraud.  Overall, we strive to ensure our internal network architecture and applications are con/f_igured and documented – and most importantly protected – to support the reliable storage, processing, and transfer of sensitive data.Governance2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
49This report contains “forward-looking statements. ” Such statements 
may relate to capital expenditures, drilling and exploitation activities, production eff  orts and sales volumes, Proved, Probable, and Possible reserves, operating and administrative costs, future operating or fi  nancial results, cash fl  ow and anticipated liquidity, business strategy and potential property acquisitions, and future business plans, initiatives, goals, and objectives. These forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by words such as “estimated” , “projected” , “potential” , “anticipated” , “forecasted” or other words that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts refl  ected in these and other forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance they will prove to have been correct. These statements are based on our current plans and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as further outlined in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q fi  led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Therefore, the actual results may diff  er materially from the expectations, estimates, or assumptions expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statement and we undertake no obligation to update these estimates for events after this report was published.Forward Looking Statements & Cautionary Note 
Regarding Oil and Gas Reserves2021 Corporate Sustainability Report
The SEC rules allow oil and natural gas companies to disclose not only 
Proved reserves, but also Probable and Possible reserves that meet the SEC’s defi  nitions of such terms. We disclose Proved, Probable, and Possible reserves in our fi  lings with the SEC and this presentation. Estimates of Probable and Possible reserves are, by their nature, more speculative than estimates of Proved reserves and are subject to greater uncertainties. Accordingly the likelihood of recovering those reserves is subject to substantially greater risk. Our reserves as of June 30, 2021 were estimated by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, an independent petroleum engineering fi  rm. Contact InformationReach Us
1155 Dairy Ashford St. Suite 425 
Houston, Texas 77079
713.935.0122
info@evolutionpetroleum.comwww.evolutionpetroleum.com