CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016 EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION
2016 Corporate Citizenship Reportexxonmobil.com/citizenship 2
Introduction
Table of contents
Introduction  ................................................................................................................................................................ 3
Chapt
er 1: Safety, health and the workplace
 
..................................................................................................... 11
Chapter 2: Managing climate change risks
 
........................................................................................................ 16
Chapter 3: Environmental performance
 
............................................................................................................. 25
Chapter 4: Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 
 
....................................... 30
Case study: Growing the Gulf investment program
 
......................................................................................... 36
Chapter 5: Local development and supply chain management
 
.................................................................... 37
Chapter 6: Corporate governance
 .....................................................................................................
.................. 42
Performance data
 
................................................................................................................................................... 46On the cover:
Since 2000, ExxonMobil has spent approximately $8 billion to develop lower-emission energy solutions.
Throughout this report, additional content is 
available by clicking the icons below.
This year , we have modified our Corporate Citizenship Report compared with prior reports. This PDF report focuses on our most material sustainability issues (see page 10) with links to additional content on exxonmobil.com, identified with an icon throughout the report. The expanded content on exxonmobil.com showcases our approach to managing key corporate citizenship topics and highlights additional 2016 examples of our activities.
Corporate Citizenship Report Policies and publicationsZach Myers, ExxonMobil drilling engineer , aboard the Stena Carron drill ship offshore Georgetown, Guyana. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 3
Introduction
Chairman’s letter
For 135 years, ExxonMobil has been built on strong business fundamentals, including operational excellence, 
technology leadership, financial discipline and a world-class workforce. These strengths have enabled us to safely and reliably deliver energy to our customers and value to our shareholders, even in the low-price environment  
that our industry has experienced recently. We are committed to doing what is in the best interests of our company  
and society. This requires us to remain focused on safety, environmental performance, community engagement and corporate governance. 
I am pleased to share ExxonMobil’s 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report, which details our performance and 
commitments in several key areas. As you will read, we continue to apply a rigorous, results-oriented approach to corporate citizenship in our business. 
Our efforts to protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and communities are at the heart of 
what we do every day. We strive to ensure Nobody Gets Hurt. We are proud to be an industry leader in safety culture and performance. In 2016, we achieved our best-ever workforce lost-time incident rate of 0.029 incidents  
per 200,000 work hours, an improvement of more than 80 percent compared to our performance in 2000.
As we provide the energy to meet growing needs around the world, we are also working to manage the risks 
of climate change. Climate change risks warrant action by businesses, governments and consumers, and we support the Paris Agreement as an effective framework for addressing this global challenge.
For our part, ExxonMobil continues to take action to mitigate our emissions and help consumers lessen their 
greenhouse gas impact. Since 2000, our investments to develop lower-emission energy solutions totaled about $8 billion. We are deploying technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage while researching next-generation energy sources such as algae biofuels. Continued research in technological  
breakthroughs will be critical to managing future environmental and climate change risks.
As a science and technology company with more than 2,200 Ph.D. scientists, we will continue pursuing 
technologies that benefit both our company and society. Through our research organization, I have seen the transformative power of innovation — I believe it is vital to achieving progress.
We also value our long-standing relationships with communities and host governments worldwide. We work 
to enhance the social benefits from our operations, placing an emphasis on hiring qualified local workers and supporting a variety of strategic community investments. In 2016, we contributed $242 million to communities around the world. 
I am proud of ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship performance, and I look forward to building upon our  
progress to secure an even stronger future for our company and the society we serve.  We welcome feedback from all of our stakeholders at exxonmobil.com/citizenship.
Darren Woods 
Chairman and CEOexxonmobil.com/citizenship 4
IntroductionAbout ExxonMobil
1 Gas conversion to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet to equal 1,000 barrels.
2 Petroleum product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.
3 Prime product sales are total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur . Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and 
finished-product transfers to the Downstream.Upstream 
We have an active exploration or production presence in 39 countries. 
We use our unique geoscience capabilities, technology and understanding of 
global hydrocarbon resources to identify and prioritize all quality opportunities.
Downstream 
Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facilities in 14 countries. 
We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lube 
basestocks and a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants.
Chemical 
We manufacture high-quality chemical products in 16 countries. 
Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses delivers strong 
returns across the business cycle. Exploration Development Production Gas & Power 
MarketingUpstream 
Research
Refining & Supply Fuels 
MarketingLubricants 
& Specialties Research & 
Engineering 
Basic ChemicalsIntermediatesSyntheticsPlastics 
& ResinsSpecialty 
Elastomer & Butyl4.1
million oil-equivalent 
barrels of net oil and gas 
production per day1
5.5
million barrels of 
petroleum product 
sales per day2
24.9
million metric tons of 
prime product sales3ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses
As the world’s largest publicly held oil and natural gas company,  
ExxonMobil uses technology and innovation to safely and  
responsibly deliver the energy and products the world needs.  
Every day, our employees work diligently to address the 
challenges of meeting growing global energy demand. In 2016, ExxonMobil supplied about 1.5 percent of the world’s energy demand, equivalent to about 10 percent  
of U.S. energy demand. The reliable and affordable energy we supply is vital to fueling economic activity and helping improve the living standards of people around the world.
As we make significant investments around the world to help 
meet the world’s growing energy needs, we also invest in  
the communities in which we work. In 2016, we contributed $242 million to communities around the world.
ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets, projects  
and resources across our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical  
businesses. Our technical expertise, global reach and integrated  
business model provide ExxonMobil with a competitive  
advantage. Our flexibility and focus on fundamentals enable 
us to deliver value irrespective of the industry environment.
In 2016, we continued to demonstrate strong financial and 
operating performance across our business despite very challenging industry conditions: 
•
 Achie
ved earnings of $7.8 billion and return on average 
capital employed of 3.9 percent.
• Spent $19.3 billion on capital and e
xploration expenditures.
• Completed f
ive major Upstream projects with a working
interest production capacity of almost 250,000 oil-equivalent 
barrels per day.
• Made significant oil disc
overies offshore Nigeria and Guyana, 
and a gas discovery onshore Papua New Guinea.
• Pro
gressed construction of a new hydrocracker project at
our refinery in Rotterdam, Netherlands.
• Adv
anced construction of a world-scale specialty polymers 
facility in Singapore that will produce halobutyl rubber and performance resins.
For more in-depth analysis of our financial performance and investment decisions, see our 2016 Summary Annual Report and 2016 Financial and Operating Review.
2016 Summary 
Annual Report
2016 Financial and Operating Reviewexxonmobil.com/citizenship 5
IntroductionThe Outlook for Energy
The Outlook for Energy is ExxonMobil’s global view of energy demand and supply through 2040. We use the data and findings in this annual publication to help 
guide our long-term investments. It also highlights the dual challenge of providing the world with access to affordable and reliable energy supplies while reducing emissions to address the risks of climate change. We share The Outlook with the public to promote a better understanding of the issues shaping the world’s energy needs. Why is this important? Because energy is fundamental to modern life. It is critical to human progress and to improving living standards for 7.5 billion people across the globe, including those without electricity, clean running water and clean-burning cooking fuels.
Energy underpins economic growth:
High levels of growth mean rising living 
standards. Across the world, the middle class will more than double in the next 15 years. As this growth accelerates so does consumption. Demand for energy increases with more people expecting access to air-conditioned homes, cars  and appliances like refrigerators, dishwashers and smartphones.
Oil remains the world’s primary energy source:
Oil will continue to play a leading role in the 
energy mix with demand being driven by fuel for transportation and feedstock for the chemicals industry. These feedstocks help to make plastics and other advanced materials that provide advantages to manufacturers and consumers including energy efficiency gains.
 Cost-effective options to reduce CO2 emissions:
Delivering on the increased demand for energy needs to go hand in hand with finding constructivesolutions that mitigate the risks of climate change. This is supported by the continuing shift to less carbon-intensive energy for power generation and increased energy efficiency in every sector . Global energy-related carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions are 
likely to peak during the 2030s, even as global GDP doubles by 2040.
Non-OECD countries lead the way for energy demand:
Continuing urbanization in China and 
India, with people moving from rural areas to cities, will help to drive economic growth. China is likely to be the largest contributor of gross domestic product (GDP) gains.India is also growing strongly withits share of global GDP doubling.
The potential of technology:
As the pace of technology development continues to 
accelerate, new — and still uncertain — solutions are likely to emerge to contribute to meeting energy and environmental goals. Recent advances in technology are promoting energy efficiency gains to slow demand growth, and also opening up new energy supply options including unconventional oil and natural gas, nuclear and renewables.
Natural gas leads growth in energy:
Natural gas is the largest growing fuel 
source, providing a quarter of global energy demand by 2040. The abundance and versatility of natural gas is helping the world shift to less carbon-intensive energy for electricity generation while also providing an emerging option as a fuel for certain types of transportation.
The global energy mix is evolving:
As global economies grow and 
government policies change, the energy mix will continue to diversify. Nuclear and renewables will grow strongly and natural gas will grow the most. The diversification of energy supplies reflects economics and advanced technologies as well as policies aimed at reducing emissions.The world’s energy to 2040: Seven things to know
Modern energy is one of mankind’s most complex endeavors, and its path is shaped by countless forces. We see seven key themes that will play a major role in 
defining our global energy landscape through 2040.
The Outlook for Energy: 
A View to 2040exxonmobil.com/citizenship 6
IntroductionSustainability
Sustainability is critical to our business. At ExxonMobil, we 
work to expand the supplies of reliable and affordable energy needed for economic progress. In doing so, we take a balanced  
approach that considers the impact of our operations on local economies, communities and the environment. We design our approach to sustainability around six key areas:
• Safety, health and the workplace 
• Managing climate change risks • Environmental performance • Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments  
• Local development and supply chain management • Corporate governance
ExxonMobil is committed to aligning our long-term business  
objectives with these six areas.In September 2015, the United Nations published the  
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), providing a framework  
for governments, civil society and business to work together in 
progressing sustainability. The SDGs cover a range of sustainable  
development issues — through 17 goals and specific targets — that will inform countries’ planning through 2030. ExxonMobil, as  
a major provider of reliable and affordable energy and a partner  
in community health, education and economic development, helps achieve progress in many of the areas set forth in the SDGs.
Environmental
performancechange risksM
anaging climate    Corporate
and supply chain
Local development
managementSafety, health and
the workplace
SUSTAINABILITYSOCIAL
ECO
NOMIC
ENVIRONMENTCommunity engagement, 
human rights and
strategic investments
governanceWe recognize the significant responsibilities we have to our shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities as we find ways to bring affordable energy to the global market. For a company of our size and scope, building and maintaining relationships with a diverse group of stakeholders is critical. Regular stakeholder engagement helps us understand a variety  
of perspectives and improve our company’s performance.
Because our business directly affects many people around the 
world, we seek to understand their viewpoints. We interact with our diverse stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms,  
including community meetings, web and social media content, corporate publications, and one-on-one and group discussions.  
Examples of stakeholder engagement are included throughout this report. The following list provides examples of common areas of interest.
Communities
Community development; economic development; grievance management; human rights; operational impacts;  
environmental performance
Customers
Product safety and sustainability; supply chain management; greenhouse gas emissions
Employees
Benefits; diversity; development opportunities; safety, health and wellness
Governments
Taxes and other revenue sources; climate change; local supplier  
development; job creation; human rights; impact assessments; ethics; health; education; energy supply and security
Nongovernmental organizations
Biodiversity; water management; climate change; human rights;  
transparency; social issues
Shareholders
Governance practices; board composition; policy engagement; risk management; climate change
Suppliers
Expectations for suppliers; local business opportunities;  
supplier diversity; capacity building; environmental performanceStakeholder engagement
 External Citizenship 
Advisory Panel 
ExxonMobil’s External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP) 
provides an annual independent review of the company’s corporate citizenship activities, including this report. The ECAP consists of academics, nongovernmental organization (NGO) representatives and former government employees who have expertise in social, governance and environmental topics. In addition to providing input on ExxonMobil’s annual Corporate Citizenship Report, the ECAP discusses key topics with company  
executives at least once a year . We thank Sarah Labowitz for sharing her perspectives with us as a member of the panel from 2014 to 2016.
Mark Cohen
Professor of Management and Law Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management
Frank Loy
Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs U.S. Department of State
Jane Nelson
Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative Harvard University Kennedy School of Government
Salil Tripathi
Senior Adviser , Global Issues Institute for Human Rights and Business
ECAP members visited XTO Energy operations near  
Fort Worth, Texas, as part of the panel’s December 2016 
meeting with executives. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 7
IntroductionExternal Citizenship Advisory Panel statement
ECAP statement on 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report
To the readers of this report,As in prior years, we were asked to share our independent 
opinion on ExxonMobil’s 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report. We reviewed and provided feedback on a draft of the report. In addition, we had the opportunity to engage across all levels of the company, including senior business executives, through in-person meetings, a site visit to XTO Energy Inc., telephone and email to discuss policy and strategy issues.
This letter is not an official endorsement of the report, the 
corporation or its policies and strategies, but rather our individual and collective views on the quality and progress made in ExxonMobil’s citizenship reporting and transparency. In recognition of the time spent, ExxonMobil provided a donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses.
We would also like to recognize the valuable contribution of 
our colleague, Sarah Labowitz, who resigned from the ECAP in late 2016, and wish her well. 
2016 Commentary
Taking strategic action and engaging with critics on climate change
As one of society’s greatest challenges, climate change 
requires urgent action on the part of governments, business and civil society. The 2015 Paris Agreement, the world’s first comprehensive climate agreement, adopted in the presence of leaders of 195 countries, became effective in 2016. ExxonMobil states that it shares the Paris Agreement’s view of the seriousness of climate change, and we commend the company for urging the new U.S. administration to remain a party to the Agreement.
However , the company is engaged in a legal and public dispute 
with visible social actors centering on what the company knew about the implications of climate change, and when and what it decided to do about it. Although the company has every right to defend itself in the litigation, these criticisms highlight the need for more proactive and constructive dialogue with critics. The panel suggests that ExxonMobil’s credibility on this issue would be strengthened if it took additional measures to promote public policies that reduce climate change-inducing greenhouse gas emissions, such as taking a leadership role to bring about a revenue-neutral carbon tax. Further , the company may want to more explicitly describe how it is aligning its long-term corporate strategy and research priorities with climate change risks and opportunities. Since this letter was originally drafted based on 2016 company performance, we take note of significant movements in that regard, such as the recent letter to the President urging continued U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement, the company’s participation as a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council, and the appointment to the board of Susan
 
Avery, a climate scientist. 
Providing more data context and comparative analysis
We appreciate ExxonMobil’s robust reporting, including the 
synthesis of its quantitative performance through a summary data table. To enhance its reporting, ExxonMobil could explain why the particular metrics reported were chosen and how they align with methodological sources such as the Global Reporting Initiative, IPIECA, CDP , reporting under the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, etc. It is also important to show both aggregate and normalized metrics similar to the approach taken for emissions or injury rates.
Lastly, additional context could be provided to demonstrate 
the strength of performance over time and, where appropriate, comparative performance with industry standards or competitors.
Leading voluntary initiativesThe current regulatory landscape for a range of environmental, 
social, human rights and governance issues is complex and uncertain. In times such as this, it is particularly important that leading companies take proactive and constructive voluntary actions. With this in mind, the company may want to play a greater role in supporting collective action and advocacy on key issues and report on what it is doing. For example, we commend ExxonMobil’s decade-long leadership in revenue transparency and encourage the company to continue to take a strong position on this topic, including ongoing support for initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, despite the potential repeal of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Section 1504. 
We applaud ExxonMobil’s recent advocacy efforts on 
amendments to the Toxic Substances Control Act. In other areas where regulations may be rolled back, it will be important for the company to discuss its position and the extent to which it supports regulatory or voluntary initiatives.Lastly, ExxonMobil has developed an impressive suite of national content programs, encompassing skills development, local businesses and strategic community investment. We encourage the company to continue to strengthen these strategies and communicate how it is aligning itself with national development goals in countries of operation and with the Sustainable Development Goals.
Keeping pace with the maturing human rights landscapeWith the maturing of human rights initiatives, there is a need 
for the company to keep pace in responding to stakeholder expectations and building industry-wide or multi-stakeholder coalitions to address human rights issues. As a participant in the Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human Rights, we encourage ExxonMobil to share good practices and lessons learned and participate actively in efforts to develop common standards of performance. This will be particularly important as the VPs shift to on-the-ground implementation. The company is right in letting its suppliers and contractors know about what it expects from them with regard to human rights initiatives such as the VPs. In the future, ExxonMobil should communicate the extent to which these expectations are part of supply contract requirements.
Lastly, the company should continue to reach its own 
decisions, but it should engage in a meaningful dialogue with affected stakeholders, including critics, and respond to the feedback it receives.
Leadership transitionAs the bar continues to rise for good corporate citizenship, 
ExxonMobil will face increasingly higher expectations from investors and other stakeholders related to the company’s management of environmental, social and governance issues. Strong leadership is more important than ever to demonstrate a sound management approach to these issues. Early 2017 brought a number of important leadership changes to the company, including the appointment of two new board members, as well as a new chairman and CEO. These changes reflect a diversity of gender , background and perspective, which we hope will better position the company to address these demands. We welcome these new leaders and look forward to working with them and the company’s senior executives as they set the direction for the years ahead. 
Sincerely,Mark Cohen, Frank Loy, Jane Nelson, Salil TripathiJune 2017exxonmobil.com/citizenship 8
IntroductionWhat is ExxonMobil doing to promote respect for human 
rights within its operations and in the supply chain?
ExxonMobil actively promotes respect for human rights everywhere  
we work. We operate in some challenging environments where 
human rights issues — such as security, land and water access, forced labor and treatment of indigenous peoples — are a key concern to local communities. We believe the quality of the  
relationships we develop with local communities has a direct impact on the long-term success of our activities, and that our business presence can and does have a positive influence. We work with suppliers and business partners who share our commitment to human rights. We also actively engage with host governments to support security and respect for human rights in and near our operations.
In 2016, we made progress in a number of human rights-related areas:•
 We published our Exx
onMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of
guidelines for our contractors and suppliers that covers human 
rights. These Expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Starting in 2017, the Supplier Expectations will become part of ExxonMobil’s annual letter to our suppliers.
•
 
 We supp
orted the creation of an in-country network to support 
the further implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security  
and Human Rights in Nigeria. This network will enhance local collaboration on security and human rights among governments, nongovernmental organizations, companies and other stakeholders.
•
 
 We c
ontinued to train our workforce on human rights issues. For 
example, since late 2015, more than 1,200 of our key employees in 46 countries have completed our new computer-based human rights training.There have been several safety incidents associated with 
contract labor in the oil and gas sector. What is ExxonMobil  
doing to ensure its contractors receive the same safety training as its employees?
Our efforts are driven by our world-class Operations Integrity 
Management System. This system sets the foundation for our company’s focus on safety throughout our worldwide operations. Employees and contractors alike are properly trained to perform their work in a safe manner .
We develop work plans tailored to our projects to ensure our 
workers get both the basic and specialized safety training they need for their specific jobs. We provide standardized training at regional safety training centers and work directly with contractors to  
make sure everyone working at our sites understands ExxonMobil’s  
safety procedures and is competent to perform assigned tasks prior to starting work. For higher-risk activities, we have more stringent expectations, such as requiring certification prior to engaging in a particular activity. Discussion of challenges on key issues
Suzanne McCarron, ExxonMobil vice president of public and 
government affairs, has worldwide responsibility for the company’s public policy, government relations, communications, media relations and corporate citizenship activities. Suzanne authors the Perspectives blog on our Energy Factor website, which encourages discourse on constructive solutions to energy challenges.ExxonMobil announced significant oil discoveries  
offshore Guyana. How does ExxonMobil approach social, 
environmental and safety considerations when starting offshore development and production activities?
We work in over 100 countries around the world that span a wide 
range of natural, economic and social conditions. In some places, our industry has had a long presence. In others, oil and natural gas is an emerging sector . Everywhere we work, we are committed to conducting business in a manner that is compatible with the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. 
When we go into a new country for our major Upstream projects, 
we conduct research and engage with local stakeholders including government, communities and local experts to develop a thorough  
understanding of current conditions from a safety, social and environmental perspective. During this process, we undertake environmental, socioeconomic and health assessments to  
understand the potential impacts from our operations. We  
incorporate this understanding into our project design and  
management plans to effectively mitigate risks. Such assessments are often required by host-country governments, but we go through  
the process even when it is not mandatory. This allows us to  
identify opportunities and risks early on in the planning process and take appropriate steps.
We followed this approach in Guyana, where in 2015 ExxonMobil 
announced the first major oil and gas discovery in the country. Prior to drilling even the first exploration well, ExxonMobil engaged  
with government and community stakeholders, including local scientists and experts, to build an understanding of our potential project impacts and appropriate protective measures.  
We also consulted with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission  
and the Guyana Environmental Protection Agency to develop a 
technical workshop series on oil and gas development, globally recognized best practices, international standards and environmental  
management technologies. Our partnership will help Guyana develop the capabilities it needs to manage oil and gas development,  
and we will continue working with local stakeholders through the duration of our project in the country.exxonmobil.com/citizenship 9
Introductionapplication, validation and implementation processes in countries 
where we operate, and we are working with governments in a number of other countries that are considering joining EITI. We will continue to work constructively with governments  
considering new reporting rules to promote transparency and revenue accountability where we do business.
Over the past year, ExxonMobil has been questioned about  
its research and positions regarding climate change. How 
is the company responding to the investigations in New York and Massachusetts?
In late 2015 and 2016, the state attorneys general from New York 
and Massachusetts launched investigations into our past research and policy positions on climate change. We reject allegations that ExxonMobil suppressed climate change research or misled consumers or investors. We are responding in good faith while we continue to vigorously challenge the legality of the investigations. As of May 2017, the company has provided more than 2.8 million pages of documents in response. We look forward to an outcome that will put these false allegations to rest.
ExxonMobil is a constructive participant in the discussion on climate  
change. We will continue to research the issue, support energy 
efficiency, work to reduce emissions, pursue new technologies and engage on effective policy approaches.
Last fall you stated that the Paris Agreement was an 
“important step forward.” What is ExxonMobil doing to address the risks of climate change?
The Paris Agreement signed by world leaders in 2016 showed 
the global community’s resolve to address climate change risks. We’re encouraged that the Paris Agreement creates an effective framework for all countries to address rising emissions. In fact, our company’s forecasts of greenhouse gas emissions are consistent with the aggregation of the Paris Agreement pledges.
The world already has powerful tools for meeting growing global 
energy demand while reducing emissions. One is natural gas. Today in the United States, nearly one-third of the electricity is produced using natural gas. Our role as the country’s largest  
producer of natural gas — which can reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 60 percent versus power generation from coal — has helped bring carbon dioxide emissions in the United States to the lowest level since the early 1990s. Increasing use of natural gas means our overall energy mix is becoming less carbon intensive.Greater energy efficiency is also essential to addressing the risks  
of climate change. It might seem surprising, but a big part of  
ExxonMobil’s business is developing products and technologies that help save energy. Examples include our advanced automotive  materials that make cars lighter and more fuel-efficient, and improved plastic packaging that reduces the energy needed to ship goods around the world.
At the same time, the world will need breakthrough clean-energy 
technologies such as carbon capture and storage (CCS). ExxonMobil  
is investing heavily in CCS, including research in a novel technology that uses fuel cells that could make CCS more affordable and expand its use. We currently have an interest in a quarter of the world’s CCS capacity.
We’re also investing in a broad portfolio of other technologies that 
could significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This includes pioneering research in next-generation biofuels, including sources like  
algae, which could reduce emissions without competing with food and water resources. And by installing equipment at our refineries and chemical plants to generate steam from waste heat — called cogeneration — we enable 6 million metric tons of greenhouse gases  
to be avoided each year . All told, we’ve invested approximately  
$8 billion since 2000 to develop lower-emission energy solutions.
As our chairman and CEO Darren Woods has said, climate change 
is a serious topic, and it demands a serious approach. ExxonMobil is proud to be part of that discussion, and we will continue to be in the years ahead.In some locations, we have helped build training centers where none  
previously existed. For example, we sponsored Survival Systems Training Limited in Nova Scotia, Canada. This organization provides  
training to employees and contractors working offshore on topics such as helicopter safety and firefighting. 
Safety briefings conducted at our operating sites give employees 
and contractors an opportunity to share safety observations and encourage safe behaviors.
In addition, our procurement staff uses safety criteria to screen 
potential contractors that will be working on construction projects or at our major operations. The guidelines include having a robust safety program and leadership commitment to strong safety performance. Our goal is to work with companies to promote  
excellent safety performance across all aspects of our business.
Our strong safety culture has proven results. For example, our 
global contractor lost-time incident rate continues to be well below the industry average.
In light of the recent repeal of the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission’s 2016 final rule regarding payment reporting for the extractive industry, how will ExxonMobil work to promote transparency and revenue accountability in countries where it does business?
ExxonMobil believes the most successful transparency initiatives are  
those that ensure each relevant public, private and societal entity 
is fully engaged and properly represented. In addition, initiatives must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every company in all sectors: public, private, foreign and domestic. Therefore, we did not support the approach the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission took in its final rule in late 2016.
ExxonMobil supports transparency initiatives that increase  
government engagement with citizens and improve governance 
and revenue accountability. We voluntarily disclose revenues paid to governments for the development of natural resources, subject to legal and contractual restrictions. Our long-standing efforts  
to promote revenue transparency help to reduce corruption,  
improve government accountability and promote greater economic  
stability worldwide. 
For many years, we have actively supported the Extractive  
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global program  
dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency 
and accountability in the extractives sector . We support the EITI ExxonMobil Energy Factorexxonmobil.com/citizenship 10
Introductionreporting are those that, in the view of both the company’s 
management and its external stakeholders, have the potential to affect sustainability performance significantly. ExxonMobil has been conducting a materiality assessment to guide our reporting since 2006. 
For this 2016 report, we reevaluated and prioritized key 
sustainability issues for our business and key stakeholders. A cross-functional team of ExxonMobil managers reviewed stakeholder feedback and business information to prioritize  
sustainability issues. The issues that are most critical to the  
success of our business and to stakeholder interest are covered  
in detail in this report. Additional information is available on exxonmobil.com and in other company publications. Please see our IPIECA/GRI/SDG index for a detailed mapping of where information regarding all material issues is located. Our draft materiality assessment results were reviewed and updated by internal subject matter experts and the External Citizenship Advisory Panel during fall 2016. Note that the  
concept of “material issues” under IPIECA guidelines used for purposes of this report is not meant to correspond to the concept of materiality for purposes of securities laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange  
Commission’s rules. Our material issues are listed below.Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary  
Sustainability Reporting
IPIECA/GRI/SDG index
This report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1,  
2016, through December 31, 2016, unless otherwise indicated.  
The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantitative 
metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and  
performance. For environmental and climate change data, units  
of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. For information on forward-looking statements in the 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report, please see the cautionary note on the back cover .
To learn more about our corporate citizenship initiatives,  
view previous reports or provide comments, please visit  
exxonmobil.com/citizenship or email  
citizenship@exxonmobil.com.
Materiality
A key step in developing this Corporate Citizenship Report  
is ensuring the content reflects ExxonMobil’s most material 
issues. According to IPIECA, material issues for sustainability About this report and materiality
About this report
We developed the 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA  
(the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues), the International Association of Oil and  
Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). ExxonMobil was a key contributor to IPIECA, IOGP and API’s updated Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary  
Sustainability Reporting (2015), and this report reflects the  
new common reporting-level metrics. The majority of these  
indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by  
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 Sustainability  
Reporting Guidelines; this report is informed by the G4  
guidelines but has not been prepared in accordance with a  
particular GRI model. To help interested stakeholders easily  
access our key sustainability indicators, we have mapped  
relevant IPIECA, GRI and United Nations Sustainable  
Development Goals (SDG) indicators on our website. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of  
preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.
Safety, health and the workplace
• Emergency preparedness and response
• Employee benefits and practices• Personnel and process safety • Product safety and responsibility• Product transportation safety• Workforce engagement• Workplace security• Worksite health and wellness
Managing climate change risks
• Developing technology solutions
• Engaging on climate change policy• Mitigating emissions• Providing solutions for customersEnvironmental performance
• Air emissions
• Biodiversity and ecosystem services• 
 Dec
ommissioning and rehabilitation 
of the environment
• Environmental compliance• Environmental management approach• Spill performance• Water management
Community engagement, human rights 
and strategic investments 
• Community relations
• External stakeholder engagement• Human rights• Indigenous peoplesLocal development and supply chain management
• Local economic growth and development
• Supply chain management
Corporate governance
• Board leadership
• Ethics and integrity• Executive compensation and strategic advantage• Political advocacy and contributions• Shareholder relations• Transparency
Business operations (included throughout report)
• Energy future and portfolio management
• Management systems• Operating in sensitive environments2016 material issuesexxonmobil.com/citizenship 11
Safety, health and the workplace
Safety
A commitment to safety is a core value and an integral part  
of ExxonMobil’s culture. Our aim is to ensure each employee 
and contractor leaves work each day safe and in good health. 
We will never stop working toward our goal of Nobody Gets 
Hurt. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to 
managing safety, including our Operations Integrity Management  
System, visit our safety and security webpage. 
Safety and security
Personnel safety 
ExxonMobil expects every employee and third-party contractor  
to identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with our 
daily operations. In 2016, we achieved our best-ever safety 
performance. We have reduced our workforce lost-time incident  
rate by more than 80 percent since 2000.
While this number is declining, safety incidents and near-misses  
do occur . We deeply regret that three contractors were fatally 1Safety, health and 
the workplace
Heath Eddins, facility plant superintendent, inspects equipment at our LaBarge gas plant in Wyoming.
Workforce 
engagement Worksite health 
and wellness Safetyexxonmobil.com/citizenship 12
Safety, health and the workplaceinjured in separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations 
in 2016. The incidents were related to a maintenance accident 
at one of our facilities, an incident at one of our onshore drilling  
sites and an incident aboard a marine vessel preparing to offload  
supplies at one of our offshore platforms. We thoroughly 
investigated each incident to determine contributing factors, 
then enhanced our work practices and facilities accordingly to help prevent future occurrences. We have processes in 
place to review all incidents, even those that did not result in 
injuries, to identify opportunities to improve. By applying this 
process, we continuously work toward our goal of Nobody 
Gets Hurt. For additional information on third-party supplier 
and contractor safety, see the personnel safety section of our safety and security webpage. 
Safety and security
Process safety 
ExxonMobil takes a comprehensive approach to managing 
process safety. Process safety refers to the equipment,  
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2013 2014 2015 20160.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0
ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmarkIncidents per 200,000 work hoursLost-time incident rate1
In 2016, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.029,a decrease from the previous year . Over the past decade, we have reduced this rate by 40 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be belowthe industry average.
1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries 
 and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year , illness-related incidents range
 from 2 to 13 percent.2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2012 2013 2014 20151.0
0.90
0.800.700.600.500.400.300.200.10
0
ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleumindustry workforce benchmarkIncidents per 200,000 work hoursTotal recordable incident rate2
2Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries 
 and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year , illness-related incidents range
 from 3 to 10 percent.In 2016, ExxonMobil’s total recordable workforce incident rate per 200,000 work 
hours was 0.20, a slight decrease from 2015. Since 2007, we have reduced this rate by 47 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below the industry average.2016
Up Close:
Hoover-Diana celebrates 
personnel and process  
safety success
One of the most significant measures of success for  
ExxonMobil is our safety performance. In 1998,  
ExxonMobil began working to develop the Hoover-Diana 
field, a deepwater oil and gas development located in the Gulf of Mexico. At the time of completion, the platform was the first floating drilling and production platform to develop two fields simultaneously at a depth of 4,800 feet of water . This engineering feat required diligent personnel and process safety management. ExxonMobil personnel have successfully completed more than 950 work-years of safe operations at the platform.The Hoover-Diana platform in the Gulf of Mexico.procedures and training that prevent the uncontrolled release 
of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances. We identify then 
eliminate or mitigate process safety risks associated with our 
operations by employing structured processes and procedures 
that serve as preventive safeguards and help us avoid incidents.  
For information on Tier 1 process safety events, visit the process  
safety section of our safety and security webpage. 
Safety and security
ExxonMobil is committed to working with scientists and local 
partners to develop and commercialize technologies that 
enhance process safety. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil 
Research Qatar , in partnership with Providence Photonics  
LLC, conducted field tests of a remote gas detection system 
in Qatar . The system provides a highly sensitive and accurate 
early warning of hydrocarbon leaks. We evaluated the  
system’s durability and performance by challenging it in  
various environmental conditions such as high heat and 
humidity, dust, sand and dense fog during the field test. 
“I am proud of the best-ever safety  
performance we achieved in 2016. Even so, there is still room for improvement,  
and we will never stop working toward  
our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt.”
Lynne Lachenmyer
Safety, security, health and environment vice presidentexxonmobil.com/citizenship 13
Safety, health and the workplaceProduct stewardship
We recognize the importance of managing and communicating  
product safety information to those who handle and use 
ExxonMobil products. Our Product Stewardship Information 
Management System applies common global processes and  
computer systems to capture and communicate information  
on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our 
products, as well as emergency contact information. 
This System enables ExxonMobil businesses to comply with 
changing regional and national hazard communication  
regulations, including the adoption of the Globally Harmonized  
System of Classification and Labelling Chemicals developed by 
the United Nations. As of year-end 2016, more than 55,000 
safety data sheets for ExxonMobil products and manufacturing  
streams were authored and distributed as part of the 
implementation of this guidance by national and regional 
regulatory authorities in several countries. Due to the evolving 
nature of regulatory requirements, we continually monitor  
developments to make sure our products comply with  
applicable regulations.Product transportation safety 
As part of our commitment to product stewardship, we manage  
the safety, health and environmental aspects of transporting our  
products, including by marine, pipeline and rail transportation. 
ExxonMobil’s worldwide marine business, which involves 
about 500 vessels in daily service, logged more than 20,000 
voyages and 45,000 port calls in 2016, safely transporting 
approximately 1.4 billion barrels of crude oil and refined 
products, without a spill to water . The ExxonMobil Pipeline 
Company and its affiliates safely transport almost 3 million 
barrels per day of crude oil, refined products and other 
important products. We operate approximately 4,000 miles 
of active pipelines in the United States every day. We carefully 
maintain and monitor our infrastructure worldwide to identify 
and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions 
onto our rights of way. For information on utilization of rail 
transport for crude oil, please see the product transportation 
safety section of our safety and security webpage.
Safety and security
Emergency preparedness and response
ExxonMobil maintains a strong emphasis on training for 
effective emergency response capabilities. We establish 
strategic emergency support groups (ESGs) around the world 
to develop and practice emergency response strategies and 
assist field responders. Regardless of the size of an incident, 
each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to an 
array of trained responders, including our regional response 
teams (RRT), which provide rapid tactical support when 
needed. Each RRT participates in annual training programs 
with business line personnel, response organizations and  
relevant government authorities in the designated region.
Severe wildfires in 2016 resulted in one of the largest  
fire-related evacuations in Canadian history, impacting  
residents in 12 local communities and requiring production 
to be shut down at Imperial Oil’s Kearl oil sands mine and  
at its Syncrude joint venture operation. Imperial Oil is a 
majority-owned affiliate of ExxonMobil.
In response, an ESG was assembled by Imperial Oil to manage 
the impacts to our business and support efforts of the Alberta 
government to help the community. The ESG supported the 
evacuation of approximately 3,000 people without incident, 
developed an air quality monitoring process and conducted Worksite health and wellness
ExxonMobil promotes a work environment that helps 
our employees and their families pursue healthy lifestyles, 
including prevention of infectious diseases. Our goal is to 
address the diverse health risks prevalent in the locations 
where we operate and to protect the health, safety and  
productivity of our workers while preserving our business 
operations. We have addressed the threats of malaria, 
tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, Ebola, Zika and other outbreaks in 
our workplace through effective and efficient prevention 
and control programs. Since 2007, no malaria deaths have 
been reported among our workers. Additionally, none of the 
approximately 100 active tuberculosis cases diagnosed in our 
workforce since 2010 have infected another worker on our 
sites, and no operational disruption has been reported due to an outbreak during that time. For information on ExxonMobil’s 
Culture of Health program, which supports the health, safety 
and wellness of our employees, please visit our health and 
wellness webpage.
Health and wellnessregular communications with employees and the community 
to ensure their needs were being met. In support of the  
community, the Imperial Oil Foundation also donated 
$100,000 to the Canadian Red Cross, gasoline to the Royal 
Canadian Mounted Police and accommodations for evacuated  
employees, their families and other impacted residents of 
Northern Alberta. 
At ExxonMobil, we routinely train emergency support group personnel on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated  
spills, fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. In 2016, our activities included the following:2016 emergency response data
“Since the beginning of the evacuation in 
May 2016, Imperial Oil employees were  
in contact with Fort McKay First Nation  
to lend their support and ensure the 
health and safety of our community.  
The commitment of Imperial Oil employees 
to assisting Fort McKay during this crisis  
is something to be commended.” 
Chief Jim Bouchier
Fort McKay First Nation
21
Emergency support 
group training sessions 
577
ExxonMobil personnelexxonmobil.com/citizenship 14
Safety, health and the workplaceWorkforce engagement 
ExxonMobil maintains a culture of diversity and inclusion, upholds  
disciplined employment practices, and offers robust training 
and benefit programs that promote employee retention. We 
cultivate a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals who  
are dedicated to integrity and high-quality work. We support 
voluntary, employee-led networks that foster a culture of 
diversity and inclusion by offering development programs, 
community service opportunities and mentoring. For information  
on ExxonMobil’s employment practices, see our employment 
practices webpage. 
Employment practices
Within ExxonMobil’s executive employee population, 18 percent  
are women. This represents an increase of 50 percent over the 
past decade. This increase, in part, is a result of continued focus on  
early identification and focused development of high-performing  
female employees. Additionally, approximately 15 percent of 
our U.S. executives are minorities, an increase of 79 percent over the past 10 years, facilitated by a consistent focus on 
minority management development. For information on our 
local hiring practices outside the United States, see page 38.
To increase the representation of minorities and female 
employees in our U.S. operations, we implement a wide range 
of education programs and recruiting activities intended to 
reach a diverse pool of highly qualified candidates. In 2016, we provided 38 technical scholarships to minorities across 
the United States. Additionally, 43 percent of engineering 
hires in the United States were women, higher than the U.S. percentage of female engineering students. For additional 
information on the percentage of women and minorities by 
position in the United States, see the performance data table. 
As a global organization, the diversity and inclusion of thought, 
skill, knowledge and culture across our company facilitates 
innovation and is a key competitive advantage. As demand for 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics workers 
continues to increase worldwide, we support immigration 
policies that will help U.S. companies fill their high-skilled 
workforce needs.
ExxonMobil offers robust corporate and technical training 
programs designed to engage employees in professional 
development. Our major business units spent $108 million on training employees during 2016. Of that, we directed 76 
percent toward professional and technical training. In 2016, more than 4,600 employees at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs, of which 32 percent were women and 58 percent 
were employees from outside the United States. For additional  
information on training expenditures and the number of 
employees trained, please see the performance data table. 
We retain and develop our diverse workforce by providing an 
environment where personal and professional growth is encouraged and career objectives are developed and achieved. 
For additional information on ExxonMobil’s employment 
policies, as well as our approach to retention and engagement, please see our workforce engagement webpage.
Workforce engagementUp Close:
Promoting Zika awareness 
and preparedness among ExxonMobil employees
We believe proactive communication and awareness 
is critical to limiting the consequences of outbreaks on worker health, productivity and business operations. In 2016, the World Health Organization declared Zika a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. 
We established a corporate working group to educate 
our workers on prevention, preparedness and response techniques across our global worksites. Preparedness strategies included mitigation in active Zika areas,  
traveler notification of potential risks, and employee access to referrals for Zika diagnosis and treatment. Additionally, ExxonMobil took proactive steps at all potentially impacted sites to establish mosquito control plans and to identify a site Zika contact in worksites located in high-risk areas. In 2016, 40 employees and contractors were impacted by the Zika virus. We will continue to enhance our education and awareness efforts to help reduce this number .
Malick Diara, Amanda Brown, Johnnie Richard and Cathy 
Simmons from ExxonMobil’s medicine and occupational health  
group host an information session about Zika prevention.
“I was fortunate to be involved as a founding  
member of the Asian Connection for 
Excellence (ACE) chapter at the Chemical  
Company headquarters in Houston.  
When I relocated to Beaumont, Texas,  
I realized the need to establish a chapter 
in Beaumont as well. Understanding inclusion and diversity is one of the most important aspects in conducting business. 
ExxonMobil recognizes the importance 
of having an open dialogue about cultural differences and how that drives better 
business results.” 
Matthew Lim
ExxonMobil Chemical Company aromatics 
technical supervisorexxonmobil.com/citizenship 15
Safety, health and the workplaceThousands of employees2016 workforce by geographic region3
Europe
14.9Canada
6.7
United States
29.1Africa/Middle East
3.6
Latin America
3.5Asia Pacific
13.3
3Data exclude company-operated retail store employees.Total workforce
71.1
Our global reach directly contributes to the diversity of our workforce and the 
success of our business. In 2016, our total workforce was approximately 71,100, slightly lower than the total workforce in 2015. The largest concentration of ExxonMobil employees is in the United States with 29,100, followed by Europe and Asia Pacific with 14,900 and 13,300, respectively. 
Up Close:
Improving road safety in Nigeria 
According to the World Health Organization, the total number of 
road traffic deaths in Nigeria is more than 35,000 per year . The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mobil Producing Nigeria and the Federal Road Safety Corps implemented the second phase of an ExxonMobil-supported road safety awareness campaign in 2016 that aims to foster safe driving practices and enhance overall safety among road users in Nigeria. This behavioral campaign utilizes  
a two-pronged approach that includes messaging on billboards as well as skills training for public transportation drivers and company logistics teams. The Federal Road Safety Corps cites a 20 percent reduction in road accidents due to the program’s sustained efforts since 2014. We have implemented similar programs in other areas of our operations and continue to seek new opportunities to improve road safety.
In 2016, Mobil Producing Nigeria participated in a 
behavioral awareness road safety campaign.2016 female representation in 
ExxonMobil worldwide workforce
32%
of our management and 
professional population are women
36%
of our engineering hires in the 
United States are minorities40%
of our worldwide management and professional 
new hires over the past decade were women 2016 minority representation in ExxonMobil U.S. workforce
30%
of our management and professional 
population in the United States are minorities
35%
of our worldwide engineering 
hires are women30%
of our management and professional new hires in the  
United States over the past decade were minorities 
Cali Hatch, a process apprentice, monitors equipment at 
ExxonMobil’s Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 16
Climate change risk 
management strategy
Society continues to face the dual challenge of meeting the 
world’s growing energy demand, while simultaneously addressing the risks of climate change. ExxonMobil believes the risks of climate change warrant thoughtful action.
We are committed to providing affordable energy to support 
human progress while advancing effective solutions to address climate change. Our climate change risk management strategy includes four components: developing technology solutions, mitigating emissions in our operations, providing solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions for our customers and engaging on climate change policy.2Managing climate 
change risksExxonMobil and Synthetic Genomics, Inc. are partnering to develop breakthroughs in algae biofuels, a critical step toward sustainable biofuel production.
Developing technology
solutionsProviding solutionsfor customers
change policy
Engaging on climate
in our operationsM
itigating emissionsexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 17Developing technology 
solutions
As society pursues energy solutions that will lower greenhouse  
gas emissions, technological advancements will be instrumental in  
providing the global economy with the energy it needs. Recognizing  
the challenges associated with most existing low greenhouse 
gas emissions energy technologies, particularly in delivering the necessary economy, scale and reliability, we are conducting  
fundamental research aimed at developing energy solutions that  
have the potential to be economically feasible without subsidies,  
standards or mandates. ExxonMobil is pioneering scientific  
research to discover innovative approaches to enhance existing — and develop next-generation — energy sources. 
ExxonMobil’s Emerging Technologies program brings together 
executives, scientists and engineers from across our businesses  
to identify and evaluate technology research opportunities with a long-term strategic focus. Our Emerging Technologies team seeks to understand a wide range of technology  
options and how they may shape the global energy system. Understanding the fundamental science serves as a basis for our broader research efforts and may lead to further technology development aimed at practical application. This awareness informs our internal analysis of the global energy landscape as reflected in our annual Outlook for Energy.At the center of our research is ExxonMobil’s Corporate  
Strategic Research laboratory, a fundamental research  
institution with approximately 150 Ph.D. scientists and engineers focused on addressing the company’s long-range science needs. Our in-house research portfolio includes a broad array of programs, including biofuels, carbon capture and storage, alternative energy and climate science. 
In addition to in-house research, we partner with leading  
universities around the world — such as the Massachusetts  
Institute of Technology, Princeton University, the University of  Texas and Stanford University — to broaden awareness of energy  
developments and support technology breakthroughs to reduce  
greenhouse gas emissions and improve energy efficiency.
Advanced biofuels
ExxonMobil funds a broad portfolio of biofuels research  
programs, including ongoing efforts to develop algae-based 
biofuels. These include programs for converting non-food based feedstocks — such as whole cellulosic biomass, algae-based feedstocks and cellulose-derived sugars — into advanced transportation fuels. We believe that additional fundamental technology improvements and scientific  
breakthroughs are still necessary in both biomass optimization and the processing of biomass into fuels. Specifically, further progress is needed to ensure that advanced biofuels can work on a commercial scale and be produced with lower life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions. 
Our advanced biofuels research includes joint research  
collaborations with Synthetic Genomics Inc., Renewable 
Energy Group, the Colorado School of Mines, Michigan State University and the University of Wisconsin. For more information  
about our technology partnerships in 2016, see the Up Close on page 18.
Energy investment in advanced biofuels
“I believe, and my company believes, that 
climate risks warrant action and it’s going to  
take all of us — business, governments and 
consumers — to make meaningful progress.” 
Darren Woods
Chairman and CEO
Increase
supplyImprove
efficiencyPromote science 
for sound policyMitigate
emissionsExpand access
to energy 
• Hydrocarbon 
 and renewable  energy systems
• Emerging power
  generation   technologies• Natural gas to products
• Advanced biofuels, 
 including algae• Methane emissions  reduction
• Advanced carbon 
 capture and  sequestration• Internal combustion engine efficiency
• Light-weighting
 and packaging reduction• Climate science, economics and    policy
• Resilience and 
 preparednessExxonMobil’s approach to developing future energy technology
The Outlook for Energy: 
A View to 2040exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 18Up Close:
Next-generation technology partnerships
conducted two years of comprehensive laboratory tests that 
demonstrated that the unique integration of two existing technologies — carbonate fuel cells and natural gas-fired power generation — allows the capture of carbon dioxide more efficiently than conventional technology. Through  
these tests, our scientists saw the potential for this exciting technology for use at natural gas-fired power plants to enhance the viability of carbon capture and storage while at the same time generating additional electricity. Following  
several years of experiments with FuelCell Energy, we advanced our research via a joint development agreement in 2016. This agreement allows scientists from both companies to work collaboratively to further develop this potentially game-changing technology.
University of Texas
ExxonMobil partnered with the University of Texas at Austin in 2016 to explore and progress innovative solutions to the world’s energy challenges. As part of this effort, we are investing $15 million in research initiatives over five years to build upon decades of research at the University of Texas and further develop existing and next-generation energy sources that have the potential to reduce emissions.
The university’s renowned Energy Institute will help drive 
much of the research conducted through this partnership. Research projects are expected to cover a range of emerging 
“The fuel cell carbon capture solution 
we are advancing with ExxonMobil 
could be a game-changer in affordably 
reducing carbon dioxide emissions 
from coal- and gas-fired power plants globally. The carbonate fuel cell  
solution uses a proven global platform 
to generate power while capturing 
carbon dioxide.” 
Chip Bottone
President and chief executive officer of FuelCell Energy, Inc.
“The University of Texas at Austin is proud 
and deeply appreciative of its long history 
of collaboration in education and research 
with ExxonMobil. This investment further 
unites two of the world’s leading energy 
organizations to pursue innovations for a 
better energy future.” 
Gregory L. Fenves
President of the University of TexasExxonMobil continues to invest in research and  
development of next-generation technologies. Achieving large-scale changes in the energy sector will require long-term investments in research to develop  
cost-effective solutions that are capable of broad  
commercial application. We conduct cutting-edge research  
and development in-house and in collaboration with other industries. We also partner with approximately 80 universities around the world to explore next-generation energy technologies. Spending approximately $1 billion per year on research and technology development over the past decade, ExxonMobil is maintaining a leading role in technological innovation in the energy industry. Below are examples of our technology partnerships announced in 2016.
FuelCell Energy
ExxonMobil and FuelCell Energy, Inc., are pursuing a novel technology in power plant carbon dioxide capture through a new application of carbonate fuel cells. A fuel cell  
is a device that converts chemical energy into electricity.
Advancing economic and sustainable technologies to 
capture carbon dioxide from large emitters such as power plants is an important part of ExxonMobil’s suite of research into lower-emission solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change. ExxonMobil researchers Carbon capture and storage
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is the process by which carbon dioxide (CO
2) gas that would otherwise be released 
into the atmosphere is captured, compressed and injected into underground geologic formations for permanent storage. With a working interest in approximately one-quarter of the world’s total CCS capacity, ExxonMobil is a leader in one of the most important next-generation, low-carbon technologies. In 2016, we captured 6.3 million metric tons of CO
2 for storage.
We believe the greatest opportunity for future large-scale deployment of CCS will be in the natural gas-fired power  
generation sector . While CCS technology can be applied to coal-fired power generation, the cost to capture CO
2 is about 
twice that of natural gas-fired power generation. In addition, because coal-fired power generation creates about twice as much CO
2 per unit of electricity generated, the geological 
storage space required to sequester the CO2 produced from 
coal-fired generation is about twice that associated with  
gas-fired generation.
ExxonMobil is conducting proprietary, fundamental research to  
develop breakthrough carbon capture technologies that have 
the potential to be commercially feasible without government subsidies, standards or mandates.
FuelCell Energy plant in Bridgeport, Connecticut.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 19technologies and will take advantage of the university’s  
capabilities in renewable energy, battery technologies and 
power grid modeling.
Georgia Institute of Technology 
Research teams from ExxonMobil and the Georgia Institute of Technology have successfully developed a new method of reverse osmosis that filters hydrocarbons through synthetic carbon membranes at the molecular level. This is a critical step in the production of certain plastics that currently requires energy-intensive separation processes.
Because the new method works at low temperatures, it may 
one day replace existing separation technology, dramatically reducing the amount of energy required in plastics processing.
If brought to industrial scale, this breakthrough could reduce 
industry’s global annual carbon dioxide emissions by up to  
45 million metric tons, which is equivalent to the annual  
energy-related carbon dioxide emissions of about 5 million U.S. homes. It could also reduce energy costs used to make plastics by up to $2 billion a year globally.
Chemical plants account for about 8 percent of global energy 
demand and about 15 percent of the projected growth in demand to 2040. As populations and living standards continue to rise around the world, the demand for auto parts, housing materials, medical devices, electronics and other products made from plastics and other petrochemicals will continue to grow. Improving industrial efficiency is part of ExxonMobil’s mission to meet the world’s growing need for energy while limiting environmental impacts.
Renewable Energy Group
ExxonMobil is a global leader in advanced biofuels research.  In 2016, we extended this leadership by partnering with Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), to study the production of biodiesel by fermenting renewable cellulosic sugars from sources such as agricultural waste. This work is part of our many investments in new technologies with the potential to increase energy supplies, reduce emissions and improve operational efficiencies.
REG has developed a patented technology that uses microbes 
to convert sugars to diesel in a one-step fermentation process similar to ethanol manufacturing. The ExxonMobil and REG research will focus on using sugars from non-food sources to produce biofuels.Through this research, we will address the challenge of how to ferment real-world renewable cellulosic sugars that contain impurities capable of inhibiting fermentation. The research will explore the technical feasibility and potential environmental  
benefits of biodiesel produced from fermented sugars. Positive  
results could lead to expanded efforts to explore scalability of the technology.
“We look forward to this collaboration with 
ExxonMobil to advance our proprietary 
cellulosic sugar fermentation technology. 
This technology can enable us to capitalize  
on the combined power of cellulosic sugars 
and microbial fermentation to revolutionize 
the production of ultra-low carbon,  
cleaner-burning advanced biofuels.” 
Eric Bowen
Vice president and head of REG Life Sciences
Emissions reduction
Plastic possibilities
What if you could meet the growing demand for certain plastics while reducing energy consumption and cutting carbon emissions? A potentially game-changing process may do just that. It’s called organic solvent reverse osmosis (OSRO). This breakthrough enables a building block of plastics (paraxylene) to be separated at the molecular level by using very little heat. If we used OSRO to help make certain plastics, it could:
Cut annual energy costs by
$2 BILLION RESPONSIBLYMeet demand for plastics Reduce industry’s annual carbon emissions by
45 MILLION METRIC TONSexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 20Mitigating emissions 
in our operations
As we seek to increase production of oil and natural gas to 
meet growing global energy demand, we are committed to mitigating greenhouse gas emissions within our operations.
ExxonMobil has a robust set of processes to improve efficiency,  
mitigate emissions and contribute to effective long-term 
solutions to manage climate change risks. These processes include, where appropriate, setting tailored objectives at the business, site and equipment levels, and then stewarding progress toward meeting those objectives. Based on decades of experience, ExxonMobil believes this rigorous bottom-up approach is a more effective and meaningful way to drive efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas emissions  
reduction than simply setting high-level corporate targets. We also believe that continuing to use this approach will yield further improvements in all sectors of our business.
In the near term, we are working to increase energy efficiency 
while reducing flaring, venting and fugitive emissions in our operations. In the medium term, we are deploying proven technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage where technically and economically feasible. Longer term, we are conducting and supporting research to develop breakthrough technologies. Since 2000, ExxonMobil has  
spent approximately $8 billion to develop lower-emission energy solutions.
In 2016, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were  
125 million CO
2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2015 
performance, our 2016 emissions increased by approximately 
3 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. This increase was 
primarily driven by new facilities in our Upstream operations, such as our Gorgon Jansz liquefied natural gas project in Western Australia. 
2016 CDP response
Energy efficiency
In 2016, energy used in our operations totaled 1.5 billion  
gigajoules. Energy utilized in our operations generates more than 80 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions and is one of our largest operating costs. As such, we have focused on energy efficiency for many decades. Since 2000, we have used our Global Energy Management System in the Downstream  
and Chemical businesses, and our Production Operations Energy Management System in our Upstream businesses to identify and act on energy savings opportunities. Through our commitment to energy efficiency, application of structured processes and continued use of a bottom-up approach, we continue to yield industry-leading results. 
Greenhouse gas emissions (net)1
Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons
1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in API’s Compendium of  
  Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas 
  Industry and IPIECA’s Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse   
  Gas Emissions. We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for    
  our business operations, demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility
  or operation in which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, with the share
  reflecting the equity fractional interest. Upstream Downstream Chemical
In 2016, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were 125 million 
CO2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2015 performance, our 2016 
emissions increased by approximately 3 million CO2-equivalent metric tons.2007 135
2008 126
2009 123
2010 126
2011 128
2012 126
2013 127
2014 123
2015 122
2016 12510 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 201680
70605040302010
Upstream Downstream ChemicalNet equity, C O2-equivalent emissions                                                 
Metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or productionGreenhouse gas emissions (normalized)
Our normalized greenhouse gas emissions from our Upstream, Downstream and 
Chemical operations totaled 24.5 metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production in 2016. Over the past decade, increases in Upstream emissions have been largely offset by improvements in our Downstream and Chemical operations. We are committed to reducing our normalized greenhouse gas emissionsthrough structured processes and the continued use of a bottom-up approach. Greenhouse gas emissions avoided from
ExxonMobil actions2
Net equity, C O2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons
Energy efficiency and cogeneration Flare/vent reduction
2Cumulative since 2006.In 2016, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were
19.0 million metric tons, cumulative since 2007. This represents an additional avoidance of 0.8 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions comparedwith our 2015 performance.2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20162.3
4.7
6.8
9.5
11.3
13.2
15.6
17.418.219.0exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 21For example, in the 2010, 2012 and 2014 Refining Industry 
Surveys, ExxonMobil’s global refining operations achieved first quartile energy efficiency performance.* 
Cogeneration
Cogeneration technology captures waste heat generated from the production of electricity for use in production, refining and chemical processing operations. Due to its inherent energy efficiency, the use of cogeneration leads to reduced greenhouse  
gas emissions. Our cogeneration facilities enable the avoidance  
of approximately 6 million metric tons per year of greenhouse gas emissions.
We have interests in approximately 5,300 megawatts of 
cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations around the world. This capacity is equivalent to the annual energy needed to power 2.5 million U.S. homes. Over the past decade, we have added more than 1,000 megawatts of cogeneration capacity and continue to develop additional investment opportunities.
*  The Solomon Surv ey provides a global benchmarking assessment of the refining 
industry and is conducted every two years. Results from the 2016 surveys are 
expected in mid-2017.Flaring
Flaring is the process of burning natural gas as an alternative 
to releasing the gases directly into the atmosphere. Flaring is done for safety reasons or because barriers to the development  
of gas markets and gas infrastructure prevent natural gas from being used.
ExxonMobil is a charter member of the Global Gas Flaring 
Reduction Partnership, an initiative of the World Bank that seeks to reduce flaring by increasing the use of natural gas associated with oil production, by helping remove technical  
and regulatory barriers to flaring reduction, conducting research,  
disseminating best practices and developing regulatory  
country-specific gas flaring reduction programs. In addition, we put in place our own Upstream Flaring and Venting  
Reduction Environmental Standard for Projects in 2005.  
Our goal is to avoid routine flaring in new Upstream projects and to reduce “legacy” flaring in our existing operations.
In 2016, flaring volume from our combined Upstream,  
Downstream and Chemical operations totaled 5.0 million 
metric tons. This represents a decrease of 0.3 million metric tons compared with our 2015 performance. The decrease in flaring in 2016 was largely due to changes at our Usan field in Nigeria, where — since assuming operatorship in 2014 — we have implemented a program to eliminate routine flaring.Hydrocarbon flaring
Millions of metric tons
Upstream Downstream Chemical
In 2016, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, Downstream and Chemical 
operations totaled 5.0 million metric tons. This represents a decrease of 0.3 millionmetric tons compared with our 2015 performance.2007 8.0
2008 5.7
2009 4.4
2010 3.6
2011 4.1
2012 3.6
2013 3.7
2014 4.5
2015 5.3
2016 5.0
Our Antwerp refinery in Belgium. ExxonMobil continues to take  
action to improve our energy efficiency and reduce emissions.Emissions reduction
>$2 BILLION
invested since 2000 at our refining and 
chemical facilities around the world to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissionsinvested since 2000 at our Upstream 
facilities around the world on emission 
reduction efforts, including energy 
efficiency and flare mitigation>$4 BILLION >$2 BILLION
in support of Upstream and Downstream 
cogeneration facilities since 2001 to more 
efficiently produce electricity and reduce 
greenhouse gas emissionsexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 22Venting and fugitive emissions
Venting is the process of releasing methane and other gases 
into the atmosphere. Fugitive emissions occur when gases or vapors escape from pressurized equipment.
We recognize the importance of reducing these emissions 
and continue implementing cost-effective methods to reduce methane and other hydrocarbon emissions in our operations. This includes structured leak detection and repair programs in which we use optical gas imaging cameras to identify leaks for prompt repair . Additionally, we continue to replace high-bleed pneumatic devices with lower-emission technology and conduct  
reduced emissions completions in our ongoing efforts to enhance the environmental performance of our operations.
Our methane emissions in 2016 totaled 7 million CO
2-equivalent  
metric tons, which is similar to our performance over the last 
several years. Most of our venting and fugitive emissions are methane, which represent approximately 6 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions.Providing solutions 
for customers
Over the next few decades, population and income growth — 
and an unprecedented expansion of the global middle  
class — are expected to create new demands for energy  
and hydrocarbon-based products. Meeting these demands will not just require more energy, but will also require energy to be used more efficiently across all sectors.
ExxonMobil is delivering solutions that enable our customers 
to reduce their emissions and improve their energy  
efficiency, including:
• 
 Expanding the supply of cleaner
-burning natural gas to 
reduce emissions in power generation;
• 
  Cr
eating highly efficient plastics and other chemical materials 
that can be applied in a range of consumer products; and
• Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants.Natural gas
One of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions is through the use of natural gas in power generation. Natural gas is a flexible, abundant and low-emissions fuel that is available across the globe. On a  
life-cycle basis, from extraction through electricity consumption,  
using natural gas yields up to 60 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than coal. Natural gas is also the ideal partner for intermittent renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind, as it can provide reliable power when these renewable sources are not available. We predict natural gas will be one of the most important energy sources to drive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
ExxonMobil is one of the largest natural gas producers in the 
world. Coupled with our leadership in the development of liquefied natural gas, we are well-positioned to meet growing demand for this cleaner-burning energy source. 
Chemical materials
Materials developed by ExxonMobil provide manufacturers with quantifiable benefits in many consumer applications, including resilient, lightweight plastics that are used by automotive manufacturers to reduce vehicle weight and deliver greater efficiency for drivers. We have also developed advanced tire technologies that help maintain optimal tire pressure, improve rolling resistance and aid fuel efficiency, as around 25 percent of vehicle tires in the United States are underinflated. By addressing this issue, drivers could collectively  
save up to 1 billion gallons of gasoline per year . 
Additionally, our next-generation plastic packaging reduces 
total product weight and allows more products per shipment, fewer trucks on the road, less gasoline and energy used, fewer greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be reused, recovered or recycled. ExxonMobil plastic products also contribute to safety within the food industry. Plastic  
packaging is lightweight, durable and flexible, which makes it ideal for preserving food. According to the Food and  
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, one-third of the food produced in the world goes to waste each year . Plastic  
packaging can help reduce spoilage, increase access to food and improve food safety for consumers around the world.
XTO Energy natural gas operations in Alberta, Canada.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 23Climate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration 
of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders  
to create worldwide solutions. We engage with stakeholders directly and through trade associations around the world to encourage sound policy solutions for addressing climate change risks.
Effective climate change policies 
We believe that free markets, innovation and technology are essential in addressing the risks of climate change. Success in developing and deploying technologies will be highly dependent  
on governments creating a policy environment that enables innovation and competition. Policies should be clear and guard against duplicative, overlapping and conflicting regulations, which may distort markets and impose unnecessary costs on consumers. We believe that effective policies are those that:
• 
 Pr
omote global participation;
• Let market prices drive the selection of solutions;• 
 Ensur
e a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse gas 
emissions across the economy;
• Minimize complexity and administrative costs;• Maximize transparency; and• 
 Pr
ovide flexibility for future adjustments to react to  
developments in climate science and the economic  
impacts of climate change policies.
Given the wide range of societal priorities and limited global 
resources, all policies should be as economically efficient as possible. ExxonMobil believes that market-based systems that place a uniform, predictable cost on greenhouse gas emissions are more effective policy options than mandates or standards. Market-based policies more effectively drive consumer behavior  
and technology innovation, while mandates and standards limit  
consumer choice and can perpetuate ineffective technologies.
We recently joined the Climate Leadership Council as a 
founding member . The council advocates for a revenue-neutral carbon tax and aligns closely with our longstanding principles. 
Stakeholder engagement
We engage a variety of stakeholders on climate change issues —  
including policymakers, investors, consumers, nongovernmental  
organizations (NGOs), academics and the public to actively advocate for responsible policies that would be effective in addressing the risks of climate change. We offer data and policy  
analysis on proposals and engage in constructive debate. For example, we have had hundreds of meetings with policymakers  
around the world to share our views on carbon pricing policy. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to  
political advocacy and contributions, see page 45.
Our chairman and members of our management committee 
have primary responsibility for managing climate change risks for ExxonMobil and our operations. The board of directors receives annual in-depth briefings that cover updates on public policy, scientific and technical research, and company positions and actions related to climate change. To drive improvement, our merit-driven employee development and compensation systems integrate performance in environmental  
areas, including emissions and energy efficiency.
As issues related to climate change arise at the local, state, 
national and regional levels, our global team of experts evaluates  
and develops a company position consistent with our principles.  
ExxonMobil employees also hold key leadership positions, including board of director positions, with many trade  
associations that engage on climate change issues, including the American Petroleum Institute (API), the International  
Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues.
We believe an effective policy response to climate change 
requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. Our scientists have been involved in climate change research and related policy analysis for more than 30 years, resulting in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications. 
Peer-reviewed articles on climate research  
ExxonMobil experts have participated in the United Nations  
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since its inception. Most recently, our scientists contributed to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report in lead author , review editor and reviewer roles. Our scientists also participated in the work of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, including its work to  
review the third U.S. National Climate Assessment Report and to provide advice to the U.S. Global Change Research Program.
IPCC’s Fifth Assessment ReportFuels and lubricants
ExxonMobil produces fuels and lubricants that deliver higher vehicle efficiency and lower emissions. In addition, we continue  
working on research and development of new fuels and  
lubricants. Our family of high-performance lubricants includes synthetic lubricants that have sustainable customer benefits, such as longer drain intervals than conventional mineral oils. Synthetic lubricants can be replaced with less frequency, therefore reducing the volume of used oil for disposal or recycle. In addition, extending lubrication service intervals increases efficiency and lowers maintenance costs while reducing potential risks from worker and machine interactions. There are also specific application advantages for these  
products, including in wind turbine applications where machinery is several hundreds of feet in the air . Mobil lubricants  
are used in more than 40,000 wind turbines worldwide.
Engaging on climate 
change policy
ExxonMobil believes the long-term objective of effective policy 
should be to reduce the risks of climate change at minimum societal cost, in balance with other priorities such as poverty eradication, education, health, security and affordable energy. 
ExxonMobil employees Barb Whittaker and Joan Axelrod 
work to develop Synergy fuels at our laboratory in  
Paulsboro, New Jersey. exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Managing climate change risks 24Each year , we update our long-term energy demand  
projection in our Outlook for Energy, taking into account 
the most up-to-date demographic, economic, technological  
and climate policy information available. This analysis serves  
as a foundation for our long-term business strategies and investments, and is consistent with other credible forecasts such as the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) New Policies Scenario. 
Our Outlook reflects increasingly stringent climate policies  
and is consistent with the aggregation of pledges that 
were submitted by signatories to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 2015 Paris Agreement. Our Outlook seeks to identify potential impacts of climate-related policies — which often  
target specific sectors — by using various assumptions and tools, including application of a proxy cost of carbon to estimate potential impacts on consumer demands. Key insights from The Outlook include:
•
 
 F
rom 2015 to 2040, global demand for energy is 
expected to increase by about 25 percent and will 
require all forms of energy;
•
  Oil will r
emain the world’s primary fuel through 2040 
due to transportation and petrochemical demand;
• 
  Natur
al gas will grow more than any other energy 
source, overtaking coal as the world’s second-largest energy source, due to power generation and  
industrial use;
•
 
 Wind, solar and biofuels will a
verage combined growth  
of about 5 percent per year — by 2040 these resources will comprise about 4 percent of global energy demand;
•
  Con
ventional cars will remain most popular due to cost,  
functionality and increasing fuel efficiency through technology improvements. Decreasing battery costs are likely to enable small, shorter-range electric cars  
to account for approximately 10 percent of new car sales by 2040; and
•
  
Energy-related CO2 emissions will peak in the 2030s, 
then gradually decline.To enhance the robustness of our Outlook, we assess a wide range of assumptions for key supply-and-demand drivers to test  
the range of potential energy mix outcomes. Many third-party scenarios that represent a 2-degree Celsius pathway, including IEA’s 450 Scenario, show natural gas demand continuing to grow and oil continuing to play a prominent role in meeting the  
world’s energy demand through 2040. Even under the 450 and  
the New Policies scenarios, substantial upstream oil and gas investment of $11 trillion to $18 trillion will be needed through 2040 to meet global demand. While ExxonMobil currently contributes less than 3 percent of global production, we are well-positioned to support additional development required  
to meet demand as a result of our diverse resource base,  
superior project execution capabilities and industry-leading long-term returns on capital employed.
We evaluate potential investments and projects using a wide 
range of economic conditions and commodity prices; we also financially stress test our investment opportunities, which provides an added margin against uncertainties and further enables us to consider various market environments and investment drivers in our planning and investment process. All business segments are required to include, where  
appropriate, an estimate of the costs associated with  
greenhouse gas emissions in their economics when seeking funding for capital investment.
The Outlook for Energy
Energy and carbon — managing the risksIndustry engagement
ExxonMobil understands that stakeholders seek a better 
understanding of the positions of the oil and gas industry, as well as how individual companies approach the management of climate change risks within their own businesses. 
As an active IPIECA member , ExxonMobil engaged with member  
companies in advance of the 2015 Conference of Parties (COP)  
21 meeting in Paris to develop a common industry position on 
global efforts to address climate change risks. That work  
culminated in The Paris Puzzle — a publication on the challenges  
and responses the industry believes are needed to mitigate  
the risks of climate change. In advance of the 2016 COP 22  
meeting in Marrakech, ExxonMobil further engaged with IPIECA  
members to explore solutions for transitioning to an energy system with lower greenhouse gas emissions. This work resulted  
in Exploring low-emissions pathways: Advancing the Paris 
Puzzle, which was published in November 2016.
Exploring low-emissions pathways:  
Advancing the Paris Puzzle
In 2015, we also took a key role collaborating with IPIECA  
and its member companies to create a voluntary reporting  
framework for oil and gas companies to publish their climate change risk management approach in a simple, straightforward  
and transparent manner . The resulting framework — which is currently being piloted by several IPIECA members, including ExxonMobil — covers a wide range of climate-related issues and provides a consistent reporting methodology for the  
oil and gas industry. This framework enables interested  
stakeholders to understand an individual company’s views  
on the issues central to addressing climate change risks.
IPIECA Climate Change Reporting FrameworkUp Close:
Outlook for Energy and business planning
Global liquids supply
Millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day (MOEBD) 
2015 2040 2040
Additional supplies neededNatural decline
in absence offurther investmentIEA New Policies
Scenario
30 MOEBD
IEA 450
Scenario
57 MOEBD
Existing supplies Existing supplies120
100
80604020
0
Source: Based on International Energy Agency sources, excluding biofuels.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Environmental performance 25
Environmental 
management approach
We conduct our business in a manner that is responsive to  
the environmental and economic needs of the communities  
in which we operate. ExxonMobil considers risks at every 
stage of development, and we continuously work to mitigate those risks and improve our environmental performance.  
We employ an environmental management strategy to monitor  
our performance in five key areas, as depicted on the right, which are discussed throughout this chapter . To describe our holistic approach to environmental management, we have ordered the topics discussed in this chapter to reflect the typical life cycle of our operations.
Our approach requires our facilities to be designed,  
operated and managed with the goal of mitigating  
adverse environmental impacts.3Environmental 
performance
The Stena Carron drill ship located offshore Georgetown, Guyana. 
managementWaterDecom
m
issioning
and rehabilitationecosystem services
Biodiversity and
Spill performance
Air emissionsexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Environmental performance 26We believe a comprehensive approach to environmental 
management includes a thorough assessment of potential environmental impacts. Based on these assessments, we then implement plans to avoid or reduce impacts across an asset’s life cycle.
This approach is exemplified by environmental management 
activities at Imperial Oil’s Kearl operations in Alberta, Canada, where reducing the environmental footprint is incorporated throughout the asset life cycle. For example, the site takes  
advantage of electricity generated by energy-efficient  
cogeneration systems, an alternative dust treatment process to reduce water usage and wastewater treatment flocculation technology for accelerated tailings consolidation. 
Imperial Oil’s holistic environmental management strategy also  
includes progressive reclamation. As operational areas at Kearl 
are no longer needed, they are prioritized for reclamation to  
prevent erosion in the short term and to allow the land to return  
to its natural boreal forest state much earlier . Reclamation planners at Kearl aim to achieve a maintenance-free, self-sustaining landscape, which takes into account  
traditional knowledge, wildlife habitat and biodiversity.  
To date, more than 250 acres of land have been permanently  
reclaimed at Kearl. 
Muskeg Lake, which is connected to and adjacent to Kearl 
Lake, was designed to provide spawning, rearing, feeding and  
overwintering habitat for native fish species. Construction of Muskeg Lake commenced in 2008 and was completed in 2010. Lake filling was completed in 2013. This is the first of three lakes that will be constructed to replace the fish habitat disrupted as operations in the area progress.  
In 2016, Imperial Oil completed four years of fish and fish habitat monitoring at Muskeg Lake. Monitoring activities included sampling of fish populations to assess natural colonization and habitat productivity of the lake. Key findings  
indicate the population sizes and number of fish species has steadily increased from five species in 2014 to eight species in 2016.
Up Close:
Environmental management across an asset life cycle
A northern pike found at Muskeg Lake near Imperial Oil’s Kearl operations in Canada. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is 
a management framework that helps put our Corporate Environment Policy into action and establishes common worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent in our business, including environmental risks. 
Our approach is grounded in a scientific understanding of the 
environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment to develop, maintain and operate projects and decommission assets using appropriate standards.
For additional information on how ExxonMobil manages  
environmental performance, see the following resources:
Environmental management
Standards of Business Conduct
Environmental Aspects Guide  
Biodiversity and 
ecosystem services
Biodiversity refers to the number and variety of living organisms  
in a given area. Ecosystem services are the food, water , shelter , 
clean air and cultural identity that people obtain from the environment. Safeguarding the ability of the environment  
to support biodiversity and provide ecosystem services is  
a priority for ExxonMobil. 
Our approach to managing biodiversity and ecosystem services  
recognizes several factors, including the rarity of individual 
species, their roles in different ecosystems and habitats, their vulnerabilities and their cultural significance. To protect particular species and sensitive habitats, we take steps such as modifying engineering design, construction and operating practices, and enhancing wildlife habitats at our properties. 
ExxonMobil closely examines the environmental context of the 
areas where we operate to identify biodiversity and ecosystem services risks and appropriate protective measures. We also periodically screen the locations of our major operating  
facilities against databases of the International Union for  
Conservation of Nature and World Protected Areas. In 2016, an estimated 25 percent of our major operating facilities were within 5 kilometers of designated environmentally sensitive areas. By tracking these data, we are able to ensure prioritized areas receive special protection. exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Environmental performance 27Water management
In 2016, the net freshwater consumption at our operations was  
290 million cubic meters, a decrease of more than 3 percent 
from the 2015 consumption of 300 million cubic meters and  
a more than 9 percent decline since 2007. ExxonMobil works to manage our water use and to limit adverse impacts to water resources and consumers from our withdrawals and discharges, taking into consideration factors such as quality and availability. 
For example, when the Banyu Urip, Indonesia, operations 
required increased injection water volumes to maintain adequate reservoir pressure, we developed a large reservoir to capture and store excess water available in the wet season that would have otherwise not been used. Using the reservoir helped mitigate potential effects of our water usage on the  
local population during the drier months when water resources  
are scarcer .
Using the latest version of the global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues (IPIECA) global water tool, we identified that almost 35 percent of our major operating sites are located in areas with the potential for water scarcity. We pursue opportunities to reduce our water use and develop site-specific management strategies such as the deployment of water conservation technologies, the use of alternative freshwater sources, recycling of municipal and industrial wastewater , substitution with lower-quality water sources and harvesting of rainwater . 
Water management is an important aspect of hydraulic  
fracturing operations. Water use by basin differs due to  
geologic and reservoir characteristics and optimization  
of drilling and completion designs. For example, a Williston 
Basin well in North Dakota requires 6 million gallons for hydraulic fracturing, whereas a Permian Basin well in western Texas requires 15 million gallons of water . For information on how this water use compares to other forms of energy, see the infographic on our water management webpage.
Water management In addition to our commitment to protecting biodiversity in our operating areas, we support advocacy, research and partnerships  
to protect biodiversity outside our fence lines. In 2016, we contributed approximately $4 million to organizations, such as those focused on biodiversity protection and land conservation.
Our Papua New Guinea biodiversity offset program, which 
provides a strategic roadmap for the sustainable use and  
management of the country’s biological resources, exemplifies  
our approach to managing biodiversity. For more information on the Papua New Guinea biodiversity offset program, see  
our biodiversity and ecosystem services webpage.
Biodiversity and ecosystem servicesGlobal freshwater consumption1
Millions of cubic meters
1We report freshwater intensity alongside consumption data in our performance
 data (pages 46-48). Freshwater intensity is the ratio of net freshwater consumption
 to the amount of throughput or production. Normalized in this way, we can better understand how efficiently we are using freshwater in our operations. Data collection began in 2007. Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 20
11.
 ExxonMobil’s total freshwater consumption includes use by refineries and
 chemical plants, oil and gas production, and onshore shale resources development in the United States, principally onshore shale resources development.ExxonMobil's global freshwater consumption in 2016 was 290 million cubic 
meters. This represents a 10 million cubic meter decrease when compared to our 2015 global freshwater consumption. Since 2012, we have actively maintained our freshwater consumption below our 2011 performance.2008 350
2009 3402007 320
2010 330
2011 370
2012 330
2013 280
2014 270
2015 300
2016 290
A frog discovered near Moro during a biodiversity  
survey in Papua New Guinea, currently in the process 
of being named.A plant found growing on trees high above the ground. 
This species is known to be found only in the Hides Ridge 
region of Papua New Guinea.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Environmental performance 28Because a significant portion of our Upstream operations are 
located offshore, we have developed specialized capabilities and tactics to improve offshore oil spill response and risk management. ExxonMobil has the industry’s only dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program, which includes a focus on cold water and remote locations, such as the Arctic. 
In 2016, we successfully stewarded completion of a field test 
of a full-scale prototype technology that uses nuclear magnetic  
resonance in the Earth’s field to remotely detect oil that might be trapped in ice. The technology is designed to detect the presence of oil to allow responders to monitor and more effectively respond to oil under ice.
For information on ExxonMobil’s joint industry partnerships 
to enhance industry offshore spill response capability, visit the following resources:
Spill performance 
Arctic oil spill response technology
Air emissions
In accordance with regulatory requirements and our commitment  
to maintaining operational excellence, we work to reduce air 
emissions associated with our operations and the products we deliver . ExxonMobil’s combined emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO
2) and nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) have decreased by almost 40 percent over the past 10 years across all of our businesses. In 2016, our combined emissions totaled less than 0.4 million metric tons. For  
additional information on ExxonMobil’s air emissions, please see the performance data table on page 46.
Decommissioning
Throughout the life cycle of a producing oil field or other asset,  
we work to limit disruptions to local communities and protect the  
environment. Effectively decommissioning onshore and offshore  
assets is essential to reducing our overall environmental impact.  
We ensure that decommissioning activities are planned and conducted to appropriately manage risks and, where possible, create beneficial land use opportunities. 
Recognizing the unique challenges associated with offshore 
assets, ExxonMobil created an offshore decommissioning center  Seismicity 
In some instances, due to unique geological conditions, oil and  
gas operations may trigger seismic activity. Such operations may include underground wastewater disposal injection, reservoir depletion and, in rare situations, hydraulic fracturing. We support risk management and mitigation approaches  
to seismicity that take into consideration the relative risks  
associated with the specific context and geography of the  
proposed operation. Mitigation methods include assessing factors such as fluid volume, formation character , tectonic setting, operating experience and local construction standards.  
At XTO Energy, a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, we follow a  
disciplined injection well siting protocol prior to siting a disposal well using available data — including federal, state or internal seismic information — to conduct a risk assessment.
ExxonMobil and Stanford University jointly developed a freely 
available software modeling tool assessing the potential risk of induced seismicity from industry saltwater disposal wells. Using data such as underground stress levels and reservoir parameters, the tool evaluates the potential for fault slip near disposal well locations. The tool is being used by regulatory  
agencies and energy companies to reduce the risk of induced earthquakes. For information on ExxonMobil’s recent seismicity  
research initiatives, visit our water management webpage. 
Water management 
Spill performance
We take a rigorous approach to assessing and managing the potential impacts of a spill on water or land with a particular emphasis on risk management, operations integrity and containment capabilities. We are proud to report that, as a result of these efforts, we had fewer spills in 2016 compared with 2015. Over the past 10 years, ExxonMobil has reduced the global number of spills greater than 1 barrel by more than 13 percent.*
We are continuously working to improve our ability to ensure 
a rapid and comprehensive response if a spill does occur . The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled on soil and water was 4,700 barrels in 2016, with more than 50 percent recovered at the spill sites. The majority of these spills did not affect third parties or the communities that surround our assets.  
For additional information on ExxonMobil’s emergency response capabilities, please see page 13. of expertise in 2015 that is responsible for planning and  
managing the safe decommissioning of our offshore assets. 
Rehabilitation
An important element of ExxonMobil’s decommissioning strategy  
is rehabilitation. This is the process of safely repurposing assets that are no longer productive resources. Whenever possible, we look for opportunities to repurpose former ExxonMobil sites for environmental and societal benefits.  
We support science-based, cost-effective approaches to remediation that take into consideration the interests of  
various stakeholders. 
We are committed to the sustainable stewardship of surplus 
properties. ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) — our global organization that provides guidance and supports the remediation and stewardship of surplus sites — has managed more than $6.6 billion of remediation work and returned more than 2,300 property parcels to beneficial end uses since 2008. In 2016, EMES monitored 5,600 active sites in more than 30 countries. 
In 2016, EMES received the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) Region 4 Excellence in Site Reuse Award  
for our efforts to remediate and redevelop former Virginia  
Chemical Company (VCC) fertilizer manufacturing sites. VCC sites produced phosphate fertilizer from the late 1800s to the 1960s. While ExxonMobil never owned or operated the VCC sites, we became responsible as a corporate successor . In 2000, ExxonMobil and EPA Region 4 formed a collaborative  agreement known as the VCC Initiative to address the contamination at the properties where these facilities once operated. Since then, ExxonMobil has cleaned up 27 of the  
30 former VCC sites, and worked with property owners and local communities to ensure the land can be redeveloped.
* This statistic is pr esented as an absolute number across ExxonMobil’s  
global operations.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Environmental performance 29
Up Close:
Advancing the use of engineered wetlands to treat 
industrial wastewater
Over the past five years, ExxonMobil Research Qatar (EMRQ) has conducted extensive research to understand the 
feasibility of utilizing engineered wetlands to treat industrial wastewater for beneficial reuse in arid environments. Water quality characterization, influent and effluent water management and system maintenance are just a few of the important factors that need to be considered when designing such a system. In 2016, EMRQ commissioned a microbiology  
laboratory to study the functions and structure of microbial communities in wetlands to optimize wetland water treatment  
systems. EMRQ then completed a design for an experimental wetland to study the treatment of gas field-produced water to better understand the feasibility of using such systems for large-scale applications. For information on how ExxonMobil works to manage water quality from our operations, see our water management webpage. 
Water managementExperimental fieldwork for engineered wetland research in Qatar to help improve water quality.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 30
Managing community 
engagement 
Understanding and addressing the interests of communities 
where we operate is critical to maintaining a sustainable  
business. ExxonMobil’s multifaceted approach to engaging 
with communities helps us create and sustain productive  
relationships with the communities near our areas of operation.  
We work in communities all over the world, each with their 
own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. In all cases, we 
maintain our corporate-wide commitment to responsibly 
managing our social and environmental impacts, upholding respect for human rights and making social investments by 
tailoring our engagement efforts to individual communities.  
In this chapter , we focus on three key socioeconomic elements:  
human rights, community relations and strategic investments. 4
Local fishermen in East Java, Indonesia. In 2016, ExxonMobil Cepu Limited helped build a jetty and fish monitoring station to support the local fishing community. 
Community 
engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsHuman
rights
Community 
relationsStrategic
investmentsexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 31
Up Close:
Social outreach to support 
local fishermen in Indonesia and Malaysia
ExxonMobil’s offshore platforms and related facilities in  
Indonesia and Malaysia are located near areas frequently  
visited by local fishermen. Social outreach efforts in both 
countries reduce the potential risks of fishing near oil and gas operations.
For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil Exploration and Production 
Malaysia Inc. joined the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency to engage local members of a village in Terengganu, Malaysia, where fishermen represent around 40 percent of the population. The initiative, known as Sahabat Maritim or Maritime Mate, consisted of a two-day outreach program designed to increase safety awareness and strengthen  
relationships with members of the local community. Community engagement activities included a “gotong-royong” —  
or voluntary community clean-up — to refurbish the local jetty where fishermen can dock or moor their boats. ExxonMobil volunteers also distributed educational brochures that illustrate  
the 500-meter restricted zone around platforms, conducted a series of talks and exhibitions on safely fishing near offshore operations and provided attendees with life jackets. In response  
to Sahabat Maritim and other such education initiatives, the number of fishing vessel encroachments at our platforms in the region has been reduced by almost 60 percent in the last three years.
“This Sahabat Maritim program achieves our 
Operations Integrity Management System  
objective of building community awareness  
among our key stakeholders and managing  
risk to ensure operations integrity.” 
Sukiman Mohamed
Public and government affairs manager , ExxonMobil Malaysia
Sahabat Maritim participants engaging with Malaysia Maritime  
Enforcement Agency officials about community safety.  
Respecting human rights
Our approach to human rights is consistent with the goals of 
the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. These principles outline governments’ duty to 
protect human rights and businesses’ responsibility to respect 
them. ExxonMobil works closely with governments, civil 
society and industry to help advance the goals of the UN  
Guiding Principles.
ExxonMobil operates in regions where engagement with host 
governments is undertaken to support security and respect for  
human rights in local operations. The Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights are a set of principles designed to 
guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages  
respect for human rights. Participants include representatives 
from governments, civil society and the extractives industry. 
We have been a member of the Voluntary Principles since 
2002, and have served on multiple occasions as one of the 
corporate representatives on its steering committee. In 2016, we supported the Voluntary Principles through the 
facilitation of pilot groups in Nigeria, Ghana and Myanmar , which were designed to enhance local collaboration on human  
rights among governments, nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs), companies and other stakeholders. ExxonMobil is 
actively participating in the Nigeria pilot group.
Our Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights 
states our commitment to conduct business in a way that  
protects the security of our personnel, facilities and operations.  
It also affirms our commitment to respect human rights. The 
Framework provides guidance to all of our employees on 
working with both host governments and private security  
personnel in a manner that respects human rights. We also have  
agreements with private security firms with which we work 
that contain requirements to uphold human rights. These 
agreements include expectations for training and compliance 
with relevant local, UN and other security-related frameworks. 
We expect our employees, officers and directors to comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations and seek to work with 
suppliers and business partners who share our commitment to  human rights. Within our own workforce, our commitment to human rights is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct  
and our Statement on Labor and the Workplace. Our Statement  
reinforces support for the principles of the International Labor 
Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work, notably the elimination of child labor , 
forced labor and workplace discrimination.
ExxonMobil has conducted human rights training for our 
employees in select regions for many years. We believe 
providing human rights training helps build an understanding 
and awareness of potential impacts. In 2015, we launched a 
new computer-based human rights training module to further 
enhance internal awareness of human rights. To date, more than  
1,200 of our key employees in 46 countries have completed 
the training.
Statement on Labor and the Workplace
Standards of Business Conductexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 32ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and we 
expect the same of our suppliers. In 2016, we published our 
ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of guidelines that  
outlines our expectations of contractors and suppliers inclusive  
of human rights. These Expectations include references to key 
international human rights frameworks such as the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  
and the International Labor Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Starting in 2017, 
the Supplier Expectations will become part of ExxonMobil’s 
annual letter to our suppliers. 
Internally, we delivered human rights awareness training 
tailored to procurement professionals in the supply chain. 
Through early 2017, we have trained approximately 100 
ExxonMobil procurement professionals, and will continue 
training through the rest of 2017.
ExxonMobil works closely with IPIECA, the global oil and gas 
industry association for environmental and social issues, to 
monitor human rights trends in supply chains that are relevant 
to the oil and gas industry. We also work with IPIECA to 
collect information on best practices in human rights supply 
chain management from the oil and gas industry as well as other industries. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s 
approach to supply chain management, see page 39.
Community relations 
We actively engage with stakeholders in local communities 
and include their feedback in our decision-making processes 
to identify any issues or concerns early on in a project. We 
provide local groups and individuals with communication 
channels — including open houses, community meetings 
and individual meetings — to voice concerns so interested stakeholders and community members have the opportunity 
to be heard. We invite interested stakeholders and community 
members so they are fairly represented in our public 
consultation activities.
We are informed by guidance from the International Finance 
Corporation and IPIECA, which provides for systematic and 
transparent grievance management processes to address 
concerns related to projects.Our community-tailored grievance management processes 
are clearly communicated through our ongoing community 
engagement, and allow us to track, analyze and respond to 
community grievances in a timely and effective manner . In 
2016, we received and responded to 31 grievances concerning 
our liquefied natural gas project in Papua New Guinea, which 
has been operating for two years. At our Sakhalin-1 facilities, 
where we have been operating for more than 10 years, we 
received and responded to five grievances in 2016. By working 
collaboratively and transparently with local communities, we can  
help avoid or reduce our impacts on communities, enhance benefits, avert delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation 
of issues. 
Indigenous peoples
Our operations sometimes take place in areas inhabited or 
historically used by indigenous peoples. In these locations, we 
start by identifying indigenous populations and then engage 
with them in open and inclusive consultation, including the 
consideration of their traditions and cultures. In 2016, our 
Sakhalin-1 project in Russia received a national corporate 
citizenship award at an annual meeting of indigenous peoples 
for our efforts to develop a tripartite agreement with local 
government officials and indigenous peoples to restore the 
local reindeer population.
ExxonMobil employs practices and policies to respect property 
rights in the locations where we operate, and we pay particular  
attention to those areas populated by indigenous peoples. 
ExxonMobil was not involved in the resettlement of any  
individuals from indigenous populations in 2016. For more 
details on working with indigenous communities as well as 
information on ExxonMobil’s approach to managing land use, 
resettlement and cultural heritage, please see our community relations webpage. 
Community relationsUp Close:
Supporting indigenous 
communities in Alaska
With ExxonMobil’s support, the University of Alaska at 
Fairbanks is creating the Northern Alaska Indigenous Leadership Academy (NAILA), which will help Alaska Natives develop the skills to implement sustainable  
community development initiatives and fulfill leadership roles in their communities. This new program includes a one-week on-campus training course designed to strengthen wellness, leadership and community  
sustainability among indigenous peoples living in the Interior and North Slope of Alaska, where our Point Thomson facilities are located. ExxonMobil’s contribution will provide scholarships covering travel, tuition and  
fees for 25 NAILA program participants.
“Without the generosity of 
ExxonMobil, NAILA wouldn’t be 
possible. Their gift underscores our 
shared commitment to developing 
a new generation of Alaska Native 
leaders and building sustainable  
rural communities.”
Evon Peter
Vice chancellor of rural, community and 
native education for the University of 
Alaska, Fairbanks
The University of Alaska at Fairbanks campus. exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 33Strategic community 
investments
In addition to addressing community priorities where we do 
business, we partner with governments and nongovernmental  
organizations to help enhance the quality of life in the  
communities where we operate around the world. Whether 
through the ExxonMobil Foundation, our corporation or our 
international affiliated company operations, we strategically 
invest in social programs that consider community needs and host country economic and social goals. In 2016, we contributed  
$242 million to communities around the world.
We focus our efforts on our signature initiatives: improving 
education, combating malaria and advancing economic 
opportunities for women. We concentrate on these three 
areas because research shows they help build a foundation  
for economic prosperity and human progress. 
Education initiative
Education is a fundamental building block for individual 
opportunity and economic growth. Science, technology,  engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills, in particular , are 
critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared for the jobs of  
the 21st century. Additionally, we hire highly skilled scientists 
and engineers to perform a variety of jobs in our company. For 
these reasons, we invest in education and teacher development  
programs designed to encourage students to pursue careers 
in the STEM fields. Since 2000, we have contributed nearly 
$1.2 billion to education programs around the world, with  
$72 million invested in 2016 alone.
Up Close:
Helping prepare students for careers of the  
21st century
Founded in 2007, the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) is a U.S.-based nonprofit organization  
that works to expand access to challenging coursework, improve student achievement and boost teacher effectiveness, particularly in the fields of STEM. 
NMSI’s College Readiness Program enables schools to improve participation in rigorous Advanced 
Placement
® (AP®) coursework to better prepare students for college and the STEM-intensive careers of 
the 21st century. To date, the program has been implemented in more than 1,000 schools across 34 states. After one year , schools participating in NMSI’s College Readiness Program have increased the number of qualifying AP
® exam scores in math, science and English by 10 times the national average, 
while demonstrating significant gains among female, African-American and Hispanic students, who are traditionally underrepresented in STEM fields. 
In 2015, with financial assistance from ExxonMobil, NMSI began expanding its College Readiness  
Program in Louisiana, North Dakota and Pennsylvania. ExxonMobil’s partnership with NMSI will help 
provide schools in these states with extensive training for teachers and resources for students to support  
AP
® coursework. In Pennsylvania alone, seven new schools joined the program for the 2015 to 2016 
school year . After one year , these schools experienced a combined 51 percent increase in qualifying math, science and English AP
® exam scores.Education initiative: program spotlight
National Math and Science Initiative
1,000+
schools in 34 states$185M
committed by 
ExxonMobil since 2007three-year increase in qualifying 
AP® scores for NMSI schools114%
20%
Math, Science, EnglishU.S. 
averageNMSI 
average
“The College Readiness Program is raising the academic bar in Pennsylvania and  
across the nation. We’re grateful that companies like ExxonMobil realize the value 
of STEM education and are committed to ensuring that our future workforce is 
better equipped with the knowledge and skills they need to be successful.”
Gregg Fleisher
President of the National Math and Science InitiativeStates implementing NMSIexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 34Malaria initiative
We support the health of our employees, their families and 
members of the communities where we operate, which is why 
we invest in health programs aimed at combating preventable 
and treatable illnesses. In 2016, ExxonMobil contributed nearly 
$10 million to support a variety of malaria research, educational  
and treatment programs. Since 2001, the antimalarial programs  
we have funded have reached more than 125 million people, 
and our support has resulted in the distribution of approximately  
14.3 million bed nets, 4.3 million doses of antimalarial treatments  
and nearly 3 million rapid diagnostic kits, as well as the training of  
more than 589,000 health workers. Our cash grants during the  
past 15 years total $155 million, making us one of the largest 
private-sector grant-makers in the fight against malaria.Women’s economic opportunity initiative
Empowering women economically is a key element to enhancing  
local and national development. Investing in women helps 
support broad economic transformation in developing regions and contributes to a more equitable society. In the developing 
countries where women are more fully participatory in their 
national economies, we find lower infant mortality, improved health and nutrition, increased educational opportunities, 
enhanced economic growth and food security, and lower 
rates of poverty. 
Since 2005, ExxonMobil has invested — through our women’s 
economic opportunity initiative — approximately $104 million 
in programs that support research to identify the most effective  ways to improve women’s economic status; develop women farmers, entrepreneurs and business leaders; and improve women’s access to technology. Our support has reached tens 
of thousands of women in more than 90 countries. In 2016 
alone, our contributions totaled $10 million.
ExxonMobil Foundation
Up Close:
ExxonMobil’s long-standing commitment to antimalarial efforts
Several tools, such as raising awareness, using long-lasting, 
insecticide-treated bed nets, indoor residual spraying, and rapid 
diagnostics and treatments, have been key in reducing the 
number of malaria cases and deaths. 
Photo credit: Ben Moldenhauer , Medicines for Malaria VentureEach year , malaria claims the lives of more than 400,000 people  
around the world. Thankfully, significant progress has been made in the global fight against this disease, and the number of malaria-related deaths and infections continues to decline. To continue this progress, an integrated approach is needed, including strengthened health care systems, improved prevention  
techniques, expanded research capabilities and increased access to proper diagnosis and treatment.
Since 2000, we have supported research and development into  
new front-line therapies, the search for a vaccine and improved  
diagnostics. We support leading product development 
partnerships like Medicines for Malaria Venture in its program designed to advance new drugs in the fight against P . vivax malaria, the strain most commonly found in Asia. Because there  
is still no approved vaccine for malaria in wide usage, we have also worked with the Malaria Vaccine Initiative at PATH since 2005 to support informed policy decision-making as the development of malaria vaccines is accelerated.
As a result of these and other such global efforts, the World 
Health Organization’s annual World Malaria Report found that malaria mortality rates decreased by 29 percent around the world between 2010 and 2015. Additionally, steady declines in mortality and incidence rates have averted about 1.3 billion malaria cases and saved about 6.8 million lives since 2001.However , the significant progress in reducing malaria deaths since 2000 could be reversed by a number of looming  
challenges. One of the most alarming is the threat of resistance  
to front-line antimalarial drugs emerging in Southeast Asia and its potential spread into Africa. Accordingly, we support  
Dr . Dyann Wirth’s laboratory at Harvard University to investigate  
new compounds that could overcome this drug resistance — as  
well as the Worldwide Antimalarial Resistance Network — which  
provides comprehensive, timely, quality-assured evidence to track  
the emergence and spread of antimalarial drug resistance.
The World Health Organization’s World Malaria Report
“We’re at a very special time in malaria 
research. If we continue to inspire health 
leaders, reduce knowledge gaps and  
translate findings into practice, we can  
end malaria in our lifetime.”
Dr. Dyann Wirth
Director of the Harvard Malaria Initiative
exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 35
Up Close:
Expanding economic 
opportunities for women farmers in Mozambique
In Mozambique, women face pervasive obstacles to 
achieving economic empowerment. To help overcome  those barriers, in 2016, the ExxonMobil Foundation partnered with Opportunity International to launch the Projecto para Empoderamento das Mulheres e  
Desenvolvimento da Agricultura (PEMA) program  
to expand economic opportunities for women farmers in Mozambique. 
The initiative includes both theoretical and practical  
application of strategies for helping women more 
effectively benefit from commercial agricultural markets in Mozambique. Since the program launched in January 2016, PEMA has provided support to more than 400 farmers and gained valuable insight into the delivery of agricultural inputs, services and finance to women farmers. In 2017, we aim to significantly increase the number of program participants through innovations in agricultural finance, comprehensive agricultural support services and technology to improve the productivity, income, financial inclusion and overall empowerment of women farmers in Mozambique.
Women in Mozambique participate in the PEMA program 
to learn about commercial agriculture.Local community investments
In addition to our education, malaria and women’s economic initiatives, we provide local investments tailored to address  
community-specific needs such as access to skills training and health care and support for disaster relief, including our $500,000 contribution to the American Red Cross and the Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank to support local flooding disaster relief in 2016. For additional information on our local community investments, see page 39. 
Employee participation
Volunteering and charitable giving are important values for  
ExxonMobil. In total, more than 19,000 ExxonMobil employees,  
retirees and their families donated more than 550,000 volunteer  hours to nearly 4,500 charitable organizations in 29 countries in 2016. 
Our educational matching gift program matches employee 
and retiree donations to U.S. higher education institutions at a ratio of 3-to-1. In 2015, nearly 4,600 employees and retirees donated more than $13 million to 864 colleges and universities,  
as well as minority scholarship programs — which, in 2016, the ExxonMobil Foundation matched with more than $32 million. For information on how ExxonMobil’s volunteer involvement program helps facilitate employee participation, visit our employee participation webpage.
Employee participation
ExxonMobil 2016 Worldwide Giving Report2016 community investments by focus area1 and geographic region2
ExxonMobil seeks to make meaningful community investments in a variety of 
focus areas. In 2016, total community investments were $242 million, with the greatest investment in civic and community initiatives.
1 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions  
and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures, which totaled approximately $4.9 billion in 2016.ExxonMobil’s community investments span across the many geographic regions in which we operate. In 2016, we invested a total of $242 million in communities around the world.
2 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our  
divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee  
and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and  
employee giving programs.$131M
United States$30M
Africa/Middle East$8M
Canada$58M
Europe/Caspian$13M
Asia Pacific$2M
Latin AmericaHigher 
education
$44Health
$18Other
education
$4
Precollege 
education
$24Arts and culture
$3
Public policy 
research 
$7Employee and
retiree giving
$38
United appeals and 
workplace giving
$6Civic and
community
$84
Environment
$4Women
$10Million$242Worldwide totalexxonmobil.com/citizenship 36
Over the past decade, technology pioneered by the energy industry has unlocked vast oil and natural gas  
resources that were previously difficult to produce. In particular , the production of natural gas in U.S.  
shale basins, including those found in Gulf Coast states such as Texas, has grown significantly in recent 
years. These opportunities have spurred local and regional economic activities in the United States. 
In addition to helping grow the economy, increased natural gas production also generates environmental  
benefits. Natural gas is the least carbon-intensive of the major energy sources, emitting up to 60 percent  
fewer carbon dioxide emissions than coal when used for electricity generation.
We operate three refineries located along the U.S. Gulf Coast in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Baytown, 
Texas; and Beaumont, Texas. These and other facilities will support ExxonMobil’s expanded refining, 
chemical, lubricant and liquefied natural gas operations. Our Gulf Coast refineries have the combined 
capacity to process nearly 1.5 million barrels of crude oil per day to produce a range of products, 
including gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, lubricating oils, adhesives and resilient, lightweight plastics used in  
a variety of applications.
ExxonMobil plans to invest more than $20 billion over 10 years, beginning in 2013, in our refining, 
chemical and joint venture businesses along the Gulf Coast as part of our Growing the Gulf investment 
program. ExxonMobil’s U.S. Gulf expansion includes 11 major chemical, refining, lubricants and liquefied  
natural gas projects along the Texas and Louisiana coasts. This includes the expansion of existing facilities  
and construction of new facilities that will increase our refining and chemical capacity.
These projects are expected to create more than 45,000 jobs in the region. Many of these are highly 
skilled, high-paying jobs averaging about $100,000 per year .  
We are partnering with local, state and national leaders to positively contribute to the Gulf Coast  
communities. The company also partners with colleges in the Baytown, Beaumont and Baton Rouge 
areas to train students for high-skilled jobs in the Gulf Coast manufacturing sector . 
ExxonMobil also works to maintain strong relationships with Gulf Coast communities through strategic 
investments and employee-driven initiatives. In Baton Rouge alone, employees, retirees and family 
members annually volunteer more than 40,000 hours with community organizations, earning more 
than $760,000 in ExxonMobil Volunteer Involvement Program grants for local agencies and groups. 
ExxonMobil also annually donates nearly $1 million to nonprofits and schools and about $1.5 million 
to colleges and universities in Louisiana. 
As we help drive economic progress and support local communities in the Gulf Coast, we remain  
committed to operating safely, protecting the environment, maintaining the highest levels of operational  
integrity and remaining a good corporate citizen.
ExxonMobil field engineer Teni Sulaiman at the Mont Belvieu plastics plant in Texas.Case Study 
ExxonMobil’s Growing the Gulf 
investment programexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Local development and supply chain management 37
Managing our 
economic impact 
ExxonMobil’s local content and supply chain management 
strategies are designed to deliver lasting and shared value  
to host countries and local communities — as well as our  
business —  by employing systematic processes and global best  
practices that support local economic growth and development. 
Local economic growth 
and development 
We work to contribute to the economic and social development  
of the countries in which we operate. We believe local content —  
the added economic and social value brought to a host nation 
through the activities of the oil and gas industry — provides 
shared value to ExxonMobil and to local communities.5Local development 
and supply chain managementEsso Exploration and Production Nigeria employees Kanu Okechukwu and Michael Gideon discuss safety plans offshore Nigeria. 
Supply chain 
managementLocal economic 
growth and 
developmentexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Local development and supply chain management 38Our local content approach focuses on three key areas: 
employing and training a local workforce, supporting local 
suppliers and improving livelihoods of community members 
through local community investments. The goal of this  
multi-tiered approach is to provide sustainable economic  
benefits and ensure local participation is embedded into  
our daily processes. 
To integrate local content into overall project planning and 
execution, we develop a plan specific to each country or 
area, taking into account social and economic conditions, the 
nature of the project and the community’s needs. Part of this 
effort includes working to align our goals with those of our 
partners and host country governments. We also actively  
participate in external organizations and initiatives that improve  
local content around the world. These organizations include 
IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for  
environmental and social issues, and the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development.Local hiring and training 
Hiring and training a local workforce in our areas of operation 
is a long-standing priority for ExxonMobil. We provide locally 
hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and  
leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers,  
both with ExxonMobil and with future employers. By doing so, 
we aim to enhance the long-term capability of local workforces  
in areas where we operate. Our training programs include the 
provision of information on ethical business conduct, health 
and safety, management skills and fundamentals of the oil and 
gas industry, as well as relevant technical and vocational skills. 
As illustrated below, in 2016, we continued to make progress in  
hiring and training host country nationals. For more information,  
visit the local hiring and training section of our local economic 
growth and development webpage. 
Local economic growth and development Local supplier development
We understand the importance of building and maintaining 
a qualified and globally competitive supply chain in host 
countries. ExxonMobil works with a range of stakeholders, 
including host country governments, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) and local communities to support the 
development of local vendors. To be a supplier for ExxonMobil, 
a local vendor must agree to meet our robust safety, technical, 
environmental and human rights expectations and requirements.  
When appropriate, ExxonMobil works with entrepreneurs and 
local businesses to help them understand our requirements 
and become competitive vendors capable of contributing to  
our project and the sustainable economic progress of their  
local community. 
Up Close:
Local supplier development  
in Indonesia
ExxonMobil is committed to providing local vendors  
with tools and training opportunities to compete in a global supply chain. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil conducted three capacity-building training programs for local vendors in Bojonegoro Regency in East Java, Indonesia. We shared detailed information about invoice procedures and the electronic bidding process to assist local contractors by clarifying ExxonMobil requirements and procedures. A total of 185 local contractors attended the training programs. As a result, local vendor capacity to meet internal bidding requirements has improved.  
In 2016, we provided contracts valued at approximately $6 million to local vendors in Indonesia. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to training and developing local suppliers, see the local supplier  
development section of our local economic growth  
and development webpage. 
Local economic growth and development 2016 local hiring statistics
Personnel locally hired
Personnel locally hired in supervisory or managerial positions Indonesia90% 87%
Nigeria95%90%
Equatorial
Guinea76%
30%
Angola82%
58%Chad96%88%exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Local development and supply chain management 39Local community investments
Our local community investments are designed to support 
social and economic development in the host countries where 
we operate. As we invest in communities, we pursue programs  
that are aligned with community and business priorities. 
In addition to supporting local supplier development, in  
2016, ExxonMobil established a microcredit union that helps 
entrepreneurs in Bojonegoro Regency in East Java, Indonesia, 
access capital to expand their existing businesses. The  
microcredit union, which has more than 400 members, also 
offers management assistance and training to members.
As part of this effort to invest in the community, ExxonMobil 
is also specifically supporting women entrepreneurs because 
of the unique challenges to economic development they face.  
ExxonMobil supports a microfinance program in Indonesia that  
provides technologies and training on key topics that accelerate  
women’s economic advancement. Women in the program were  
provided with sustainable lighting and cooking technologies 
to assist in their daily lives, as well as the opportunity to become  
resellers of the technology in their communities. In 2016, 
ExxonMobil held several group training sessions for more than 
500 women, covering topics such as microfinance, sales and 
marketing, and basic accounting. For additional information on  
ExxonMobil’s strategic community investments, see page 33.
Supply chain management
The success of our business is influenced by the many valued 
suppliers who support our operations. In 2016, ExxonMobil 
made payments to more than 90,000 suppliers of goods and 
services worldwide. We strive to promote a healthy supply 
chain that respects human rights and the environment while 
creating opportunities for historically underrepresented groups.
As part of our supply chain management efforts, we have 
taken steps to foster a commitment to sustainability with our 
key suppliers. In 2016, we included a sustainability discussion in  
our supplier relationship management meetings with strategic 
suppliers representing more than $850 million in annual spending across nine commodity groups. These discussions — 
which cover human rights, environmental performance, local 
content and supplier diversity topics — opened the door  
to potential future collaborations to improve our mutual  
sustainability performance with these suppliers. For information  
on how ExxonMobil respects human rights in the supply chain, 
please see page 32.Promoting supplier diversity 
ExxonMobil seeks to build long-lasting and mutually beneficial 
relationships with diverse suppliers to contribute to the  
economic development of historically underrepresented 
groups. In the United States, we have cultivated diversity 
across our supply chain for more than 40 years. 
In 2011, our spending with minority- and women-owned 
business enterprises (MWBEs) reached $1 billion in the  
United States. We have been able to maintain that level of 
spending with diverse suppliers for the past five years. In 2016, 
we exceeded our target with a total of $1.4 billion in spending with diverse suppliers in the United States. This represents 
the highest annual spending with diverse suppliers in our 
program’s history. These suppliers included minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; 
lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; 
veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned 
businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. 
Suppliers from these groups have contributed to our total 
diverse spending in order to ensure a more inclusive supply chain. To help identify diverse suppliers, our supplier diversity database allows businesses from traditionally underrepresented  
groups in the United States to register an interest in being an 
ExxonMobil supplier .
Supplier diversity database  
We consider the full reach of our supply chain, not just our 
direct spending, by tracking the progress of our primary 
suppliers in the use of diverse suppliers in their businesses. 
We refer to this as our Tier 2 program. This approach helps 
promote the sustainability of our supplier diversity program  
by encouraging our primary suppliers to join in our efforts. 
Beyond spending with diverse suppliers, we aim to provide 
long-term growth and development opportunities to diverse 
suppliers through coaching, training and workshops. In 2016, 
we continued to increase ExxonMobil leadership engagement 
in our supplier diversity program. Sara Ortwein, president of XTO  
Energy, hosted a “CEO Academy,” an executive development 
session at the ExxonMobil Houston Campus in partnership 
with the Houston Minority Supplier Development Council. At 
the session, Ms. Ortwein shared leadership thoughts and the 
company’s philosophy.
We work closely with the National Minority Supplier Development  
Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Enterprise National  
Council (WBENC) to help identify and develop relationships  ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers1     
Millions of dollars
1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending).
 Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses; 
 women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and  transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled  veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. In 2011, our spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises 
reached $1 billion in the United States. We have maintained that level of spending with diverse suppliers for the past five years. In 2016, we spent a total of$1.4 billion with diverse suppliers in the United States, an increase of more than 30 percent from 2015.2007
$582
2008 $615
2009 $887
2010 $841
2011 $1,068
2012 $1,001
2013 $1,024
2014 $1,108
2015 $1,064
2016 $1,442
“Many businesses, while achieving 
success, can struggle with transitioning 
from operational to strategic leadership. 
Overcoming this challenge is critical for 
sustainable growth. I was glad to share  
my insights from my own leadership  
experience in order to help diverse  
business leaders in the Houston area  
grow and develop themselves as leaders, 
as well as expand their businesses.  
Developing a stronger, more diverse 
supply base not only helps the community, 
but also ExxonMobil’s business.” 
Sara Ortwein
President of XTO Energyexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Local development and supply chain management 40with certified diverse suppliers in the United States. ExxonMobil  
is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier diversity 
efforts. WBENC named ExxonMobil among America’s Top 
Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises in 2016 for 
the 10th year in a row. For the first time, we received a Platinum  
Distinction, which is reserved for companies with leading 
supplier diversity programs in the top quartile. This national 
award recognizes corporations with world-class programs and leadership in supplier diversity that are setting higher standards and driving innovation in support of women’s  
business enterprises.
National Minority Supplier  
Development Council
Women’s Business Enterprise  
National Council
Our supplier diversity program continues to expand into the  
international arena. In 2016, we spent a total of $203 million 
with women-owned and indigenous-owned businesses 
outside the United States. Of this, we spent $170 million with 
indigenous-owned businesses in Canada. Outside of Canada, we  
spent $33 million with women-owned businesses, representing  
a 57 percent increase from 2015. We continue to work with 
WEConnect International to increase the participation of 
women-owned businesses in our supply chain around the world. Women’s economic development is a global priority for 
ExxonMobil, and our international supplier diversity program 
currently focuses on women in a number of countries where 
we operate. For additional information on our efforts to 
increase women’s economic development, see page 34.
WEConnect International
Up Close:
Improving environmental performance across the supply chain
We encourage our suppliers to take action to improve environmental performance, as outlined in ExxonMobil’s Supplier Expectations. We work in collaboration with key suppliers, where possible, to identify opportunities for  
continuous improvement in environmental performance that improve efficiencies and create shared value for our business and our suppliers. For example, we have worked with several suppliers in the U.S. Gulf Coast to reduce waste and improve waste handling at our facilities in  
Beaumont, Texas, and Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
By collaborating with Waste Management National Services,  
Inc., and its affiliates, to apply its comprehensive waste 
profiling and analysis methods across ExxonMobil’s plants, we enhanced our waste disposal practices and achieved significant cost savings at our Baton Rouge and Beaumont locations. Our partnership with Waste Management has resulted in more than $2 million in cost savings due to increased recycling, improved waste classification and container optimization. In addition, Waste Management personnel have worked more than 100,000 person-hours without incident at the ExxonMobil refineries and achieved world-class safety standards.
Through our partnership with a valued supplier to the 
ExxonMobil Chemical Company, we were also able to reduce waste by reusing and recycling large polypropylene bags capable of holding 500 to 2,000 pounds of product at our Baton Rouge refinery. Rather than being disposed of in landfills, used bags are now collected, cleaned and repaired by a third party before being sold back to the supplier at a lower cost. Not only does this initiative result in an 80 to 90 percent reduction in the number of bags sent to landfill, but it also results in cost savings for our supplier and our  
own business. We value suppliers who can help us improve our own environmental performance, and we are now looking to expand these waste initiatives to other locations. 
Participants at a recent WEConnect women’s supplier conference in Lagos, Nigeria, sponsored by ExxonMobil. exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Local development and supply chain management 41Up Close:
Partnering to celebrate 
America Recycles Day
ExxonMobil works to promote women-owned 
businesses and, where possible, include them in our supply chain. For example, CompuCycle, a women-owned company, began working with ExxonMobil in the area of electronic waste removal and recycling in 2015. CompuCycle was the first company in the Houston area to achieve R2  
Certification, the recycling industry’s leading  
certification for electronic waste handling. This  
certification ensures that the electronic waste removed from ExxonMobil sites is handled in a  
safe, environmentally responsible and fully  
transparent manner . 
In November 2016, ExxonMobil and the Houston 
campus sustainability team worked with CompuCycle  
to host an electronics collection event to celebrate America Recycles Day. The event helped educate ExxonMobil employees and local community  
members about the importance of responsible electronic waste disposal, and resulted in more than 11,000 pounds of electronic waste being disposed of safely and responsibly.
“To celebrate America Recycles Day,  
the Houston campus sustainability  
team wanted to educate 
ExxonMobil employees and  
the local community about the  
benefits of recycling. CompuCycle helped us accomplish this, while 
also giving people an easy way 
to responsibly dispose of their 
electronic waste from home.”
David Willis
ExxonMobil Houston campus 
sustainability team recycling lead
Up Close:
ExxonMobil receives 
award for corporate social responsibility
In 2016, Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria 
Limited (EEPNL), an ExxonMobil affiliate in Nigeria, was awarded the Best Company in Corporate Social Responsibility in West Africa and recognized as one of  
the Most Socially Responsible Companies by Social Enterprise Report and Awards (SERAs). SERAs is  
an annual project that raises awareness about the roles organizations play in the social development  
of Nigeria and Africa. 
These awards recognize several local community 
investment projects in Nigeria, including a  
back-to-school program that has provided school supplies to more than 32,500 students across the country. Additionally, our investments supported the building of science libraries to promote the development of future STEM professionals at 22 primary schools; e-learning centers at 12 schools to teach children computer skills; 32 solar-powered water pumps to provide access to clean, potable water; and general capacity-building workshops for local entrepreneurs. Overall, we have invested more than $1.3 million into the local community through these projects.exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Corporate governance
Governance practices
Good corporate governance creates a business environment  
conducive to long-term investments and sustainable economic  
growth. ExxonMobil implements a variety of corporate  
governance practices, underpinned by a board comprised  
predominantly of independent directors. Our Standards of 
Business Conduct, adopted and administered by the board of 
directors, cover a range of topics including labor , diversity, the 
environment and anti-corruption.
Ethics and integrity
We observe the highest standards of integrity and ethics to 
develop, approve and implement projects around the world. 
ExxonMobil requires that employees, officers, directors and 
those working on our behalf comply with all applicable laws, 
including the U.S. anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-boycott, trade  
sanctions and export controls laws, as well as laws in other 
countries applicable to our business. In 2016, nearly 47,000 
employees and contractors participated in anti-corruption 6Corporate 
governanceThe ExxonMobil campus near Houston, Texas. 
42Transparency
Political advocacy
& contributionsEthics & 
integrity
Board 
leadershipexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Corporate governancetraining and business practice reviews. For additional information  
on how ExxonMobil works to uphold the highest ethical  
standards, see the Standards of Business Conduct.
Standards of Business Conduct
Transparency 
ExxonMobil supports multi-stakeholder engagement for the 
purpose of increasing transparency of government revenues 
from the extractive industries. Our long-standing efforts to 
promote revenue transparency have helped reduce corruption, 
improve government accountability and promote greater 
economic stability worldwide. In order to be successful,  
a transparency initiative should: 
•
  Apply t
o all companies; 
•
  Pr
otect commercially sensitive and proprietary information; and
•
  Not violat
e host government laws or contractual obligations. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a 
global program dedicated to strengthening governance by 
improving transparency and accountability in the extractives 
sector . Companies and governments participating in EITI  
separately report payments and revenues, respectively, 
allowing EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. ExxonMobil 
has held an active role at both the secretariat and country 
levels since EITI’s inception more than a decade ago. An 
ExxonMobil representative has served on the EITI board as 
either a primary or alternate member since it began. 
ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation and 
implementation processes wherever we operate. We are also 
currently working with governments in several countries, 
including Guyana and Mexico, which are considering joining 
EITI. There are currently about 51 countries that are compliant 
members or have been accepted as candidates to begin reporting under the EITI Standard.Board leadership 
ExxonMobil’s affairs are managed independently under the 
direction of our board of directors. All directors are required  
to stand for election each year at our annual meeting of  
shareholders. At year-end 2016, 11 of 13 directors, including the  
presiding director and all members of the audit, compensation, public issues and contributions, and board affairs committees, 
were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange 
guidelines. In 2016, the board met 12 times. Independent 
leadership is also supported by the presiding director , a 
non-employee director who, in consultation with the chairman,  
reviews board agendas and materials to be distributed to 
directors before board meetings, among other responsibilities. 
For more information about our board structure, visit the 
corporate governance section of our website.
Corporate governance
Up Close:
Board PICC trip to Baytown, Texas
Each year , members of the public issues and contributions committee (PICC) visit a company site to gain a deeper understanding of ExxonMobil operations and to view first-hand the execution of ExxonMobil standards, principles and capabilities. In 2016, the PICC visited our Baytown and Mont Belvieu facilities in Texas to view progress on the North American Growth Project. The project is part of a larger Gulf Coast investment program, called Growing the Gulf, that will create or support 45,000 construction and full-time jobs. For more information, see the case study on page 36.
Founded in 1919, the Baytown refinery and petrochemical complex is located about 25 miles outside  
of Houston, along the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery consists of manufacturing sites, chemical  
plants and a global technology center . These sites employ more than 7,000 workers, and the 
refinery has a potential capacity of 561,000 barrels of crude oil per day. Within the Baytown area, our Mont Belvieu plant manufactures the film that bundles water bottles and heavy-duty sacks used to store food, and the Baytown olefins plant is one of the largest ethylene-producing plants in the world.
The trip included a reception and dinner at Lee College, a community college that is part of  
ExxonMobil’s Petrochemical Initiative, to engage with local community and civic leaders, including 
the Baytown mayor and the chair of the Houston Port Authority. Additionally, the PICC attended a lunch with employees from Mont Belvieu and the Baytown olefins plants.
ExxonMobil directors (bottom row) attending the PICC trip to Baytown and Mont Belvieu, 
along with ExxonMobil executives. From left: (Top row) Woody Paul, Paul Fritsch, Mike Dolan, 
Jeff Woodbury, Paul Guilfoyle, Cindy Shulman, (Bottom row) Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, 
Henrietta Fore, Kenneth Frazier , Steven Reinemund, Angela Braly and Douglas Oberhelman. 
43exxonmobil.com/citizenship
Corporate governancePercent vote for1 2016 proxy vote summary
1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals.
2Proposals submitted by the board.
3First-year proposal.
4ExxonMobil adopted a proxy access bylaw on November 1, 2016.1. Election of directors (average)2
2. Ratification of independent auditors2
3. Advisory vote on executive compensation2
4. Independent chairman
5. Climate expert on board6. Hire an investment bank
3
7. Proxy access bylaw4
8. Report on compensation for women
9. Report on lobbying10. Increase capital distributions11. Policy to limit global warming to 2°C
3
12. Report on impacts of climate change policies3
13. Report reserve replacements in BTUs3
14. Report on hydraulic fracturing95.9
98.989.338.720.92.061.98.425.74.118.538.15.624.5Item 2016With our most recent board additions, the ExxonMobil board  
stands at 13 directors, 12 of whom are non-employee directors.  
We describe current director qualifications in our proxy  
statement, and the guidelines the board employs in selecting 
board candidates are published on our company website and 
regularly reviewed.
2017 proxy statement
Board committees overview
Executive compensation and strategic advantage
ExxonMobil’s business model is reflective of a capital-intensive 
industry, requiring long investment lead times and a significant 
focus on risk management. Our executive compensation  
program supports this business model and focuses our  
executives on continuous improvement, effective risk  
management, operations integrity and sustainable growth 
in shareholder value. 
Our compensation committee carefully considers the  
feedback on executive compensation we receive from our 
shareholders, some of whom have held ExxonMobil stock for 
more than a decade. During the 2016 proxy season, the  
advisory vote on executive compensation received 89 percent 
of votes “For” the company’s program. For more details  
on our executive compensation program, see our board  
leadership webpage.
Board leadership 
Shareholder relations
We value the dialogue we have with our shareholders on 
a variety of governance, social and environmental topics 
throughout the year . Our direct engagement with shareholders  
provides an effective forum to address issues, share relevant 
information and viewpoints, and align on the facts. 
In 2016, we held 51 shareholder engagements on environmental,  
social and governance issues with institutional investors, 
pension funds, and labor , religious and nongovernmental 
organizations, representing almost 40 percent of outstanding 
stock held by institutional investors. These engagements 
have frequently allowed us to reach common ground with 
our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more 
formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting.  
The board has established procedures for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with them, which 
further underpins the importance that the board places on 
shareholder input. At the corporation’s 2016 annual meeting, 
shareholders owning approximately 3.5 billion — or more 
than 85 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. In 
2016, shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, 
executive compensation and 11 shareholder proposals. The 
summary table above shows the 2016 proxy vote results.Good corporate governance is an essential element of corporate  
social responsibility. Corporate citizenship topics typically  
fall under the purview of the public issues and contributions 
committee, the board affairs committee and the compensation  
committee, and are routinely reviewed at board meetings. 
While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, 
committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant 
to each committee. For example, the PICC is charged with 
reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, programs  
and practices with respect to the environment, among other 
duties. The committee hears reports from operating units  
on environmental activities and also visits operating sites  
to observe and comment on current practices. The entire  
board receives briefings by internal experts on environmental 
stewardship and climate change.
Board selection process 
We value the diversity of the board in regard to gender , race, 
geography, experience and fields of expertise. We believe 
maintaining this diversity is critical to our success in a globalized  
market. In 2016, 45 percent of the board’s independent 
directors were female, African-American or from outside the 
United States. Four of the seven most recent additions to the 
board demonstrate this cultural and intellectual diversity.
Below we introduce our most recent board member additions: 
Angela Braly and Susan Avery. 
Angela Braly was elected to the ExxonMobil board in 2016. 
Ms. Braly served as president and chief executive officer of 
WellPoint from 2007 to 2012 and chairman from 2010 to 
2012. Her current company directorships include Brookfield 
Asset Management, Lowe’s and Procter & Gamble.
Susan Avery was elected to the board in early 2017. Dr . Avery, 
an atmospheric scientist, is the former president and director 
of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. In 2013, she 
was named to the Scientific Advisory Board of the United 
Nations Secretary-General, which provides advice on science, 
technology and innovation for sustainable development.
44
Angela Braly
 Susan Averyexxonmobil.com/citizenship
Corporate governance 45Up Close:
Engaging on TSCA modernization
The primary law overseeing the safety of chemical products in the United States — the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) —  
provides the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency authority to review and regulate chemicals in commerce. TSCA was 
designed to ensure that products are safe for intended use. In 2016, ExxonMobil and the American Chemistry Council strongly advocated in support of the bipartisan legislation to enhance the TSCA process and provide for a uniform national  
system of chemical regulation. In June 2016, the president signed into law the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act, which reauthorized and modernized TSCA to strengthen safety standards.Political advocacy 
and contributions 
Because public policy decisions made at all levels of government  
can have significant effects on our current and future operations,  
ExxonMobil communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress, 
state legislatures and governments around the world. 
In the United States, lobbying activities include direct  
communication with members of Congress, state legislators, 
administration and regulatory officials, as well as support for 
trade associations and other groups that engage in lobbying 
activities. We fully comply with registration and reporting  
regulations related to our lobbying activities. In 2016, we reported total federal lobbying expenses of about $12 million  
in our disclosure reports to Congress.
We make political contributions to candidate committees and 
political organizations as permitted by applicable laws. We refrain from making political contributions in any countries  
other than the United States and Canada. In 2016, we contributed  
almost $222,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 12 U.S.  
states. * ExxonMobil’s political action committee (PAC) disbursed  
more than $957,000 to federal and state candidates. * Corporate  
political contributions are subject to an internal review  
process that requires approval from the chairman. The political 
contributions of the corporation, as well as the contributions 
from the company-sponsored PAC, are reviewed by the board 
of directors annually and are routinely verified during internal 
audits of the corporation’s public affairs activities. As shown 
on the right, ExxonMobil engaged last year on a variety of issues in support of responsible economic, energy and 
environmental policies. For additional information on political 
contributions, the issues ExxonMobil engaged on in 2016 
and our associated positions, visit our political advocacy and 
contributions webpage. 
Political advocacy and contributions
ExxonMobil Energy Factor
* T otals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned 
contributions not yet posted.  Topic
Climate change 
Education 
 
Energy infrastructure
Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drillingInternational trade 
Regulatory improvement 
 
Renewable fuel standard 
 
Tax policy Toxic Substances Control ActExxonMobil’s position 
ExxonMobil supports the Paris Agreement, which addresses climate change as a 
global challenge for all nations.
ExxonMobil supports science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education initiatives as part of a path to global competitiveness and advocates for efforts to raise academic standards. 
ExxonMobil supports the continued development of necessary energy infrastructure.ExxonMobil supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing.ExxonMobil supports lifting restrictions on exports of energy products because 
expanding markets can benefit all consumers.
ExxonMobil supports common-sense reforms to improve transparency, accountability  
and objectivity of regulations that would enable effective enforcement, improve 
public safety and minimize economic costs.
ExxonMobil opposes fuel mandates such as the renewable fuel standard because 
they distort free markets, do not provide claimed environmental benefits and increase costs to consumers.
ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that enable the energy industry to remain 
competitive in the global marketplace.
ExxonMobil supported the Toxic Substances Control Act reauthorization and 
modernization to strengthen safety standards.exxonmobil.com/citizenship 46
Performance dataPerformance data
We assess our performance at many levels of the organization, from individual operational sites to the business lines, to support continual improvement 
in all areas of corporate citizenship. Starting in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. As part of our commitment to transparently communicate our performance, in 2014 we started reporting our data over a 10-year period to demonstrate performance trends over time. For data that is discussed in more detail in this report, we reference the corresponding page number in the table. Data included in the performance table is guided by the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015). For additional information on our corporate citizenship reporting, please see the IPIECA/GRI/SDG index.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Page #
Safety, health and the workplace
Fatalities — employees 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 12
Fatalities — contractors 8 5 4 3 9 4 6 3 2 3 12
1Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours) 0.018 0.011 0.017 0.006 0.017 0.010 0.011 0.006 0.004 0.008 N/A
1Fatal incident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)  0.013 0.011 0.012 0.006 0.017 0.010 0.009 0.006 0.004 0.008 N/A
2Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours) 0.031 0.054 0.043 0.048 0.064 0.042 0.051 0.032 0.043 0.027 N/A
2Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours) 0.065 0.049 0.040 0.031 0.086 0.049 0.041 0.030 0.029 0.030 N/A
2Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours) 0.048 0.051 0.041 0.038 0.077 0.046 0.044 0.031 0.034 0.029 12
2Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours) 0.33 0.37 0.32 0.25 0.30 0.25 0.22 0.19 0.21 0.16 N/A
2Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours) 0.43 0.49 0.39 0.34 0.41 0.37 0.32 0.29 0.26 0.23 N/A
2Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours) 0.38 0.43 0.36 0.30 0.37 0.33 0.29 0.25 0.24 0.20 12
Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance) N/A N/A 69 62 70 63 62 65 74 64 N/A
3,4Number of regular employees at year end, thousands 81 80 81 84 82 77 75 75 73 71 15
4Percent of workforce — outside the United States 63 63 63 60 61 59 59 58 59 59 15
4Percent women — global workforce 25 25 26 26 26 28 28 28 28 28 N/A
Percent management and professional new hires — women 38 39 38 40 44 39 39 40 41 44 N/A
Percent management and professional new hires — outside the United States 71 69 63 70 79 68 66 61 61 74 N/A
Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands 35 48 52 61 65 76 87 79 85 83 N/A
Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars 61 69 71 77 80 88 96 117 124 108 14
Managing climate change risks
5Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons 135 126 123 126 128 126 127 123 122 125 20
6Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) 125 117 114 117 119 118 119 115 114 117 N/A
7Emissions associated with imported power 10 9 9 9 9 8 8 8 8 8 N/A
Greenhouse gas emission consituents (excludes emissions from exported power and heat),  
millions of metric tons
CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) 131 122 119 122 124 120 119 116 115 118 N/A
Methane (CO2-equivalent) 3 3 3 3 3 5 7 6 6 7 N/A
Other gases (CO2-equivalent) 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 <1 N/A
Emissions from exported power and heat 14 13 14 13 15 15 16 7 4 3 N/A
By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
Africa/Europe/Middle East 50 45 43 45 45 44 44 43 44 44 N/A
Americas 65 62 62 64 66 68 70 66 65 65 N/A
Asia Pacific 20 19 18 17 17 14 13 14 13 16 N/APerformance data table*IPIECA/GRI/SDG indexexxonmobil.com/citizenship 47
Performance data2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Page #
Managing climate change risks (continued)
By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
Upstream 53 49 47 50 54 56 58 56 56 59 N/A
Downstream 59 57 56 55 54 51 49 47 45 45 N/A
Chemical 23 20 20 21 20 19 20 20 21 21 N/A
Carbon dioxide — captured for storage, millions of metric tons N/A N/A N/A N/A 5.0 4.8 5.9 6.9 6.9 6.3 18
5 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100  
metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream 21.7 21.0 20.1 20.5 20.7 22.3 23.2 23.9 23.9 24.6 20
Downstream 21.5 21.0 21.0 20.8 20.0 19.6 19.7 19.2 18.9 19.5 20
Chemical 62.1 59.8 60.7 57.9 57.2 56.3 57.0 53.4 53.6 52.2 20
Energy use (billion gigajoules) 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.5 20
Energy intensity, normalized versus Global Energy Management System (GEMS) base year (2002) — refining 94.2 93.7 92.8 91.8 90.9 90.0 90.5 90.3 91.2 90.7 N/A
Energy intensity, normalized versus GEMS base year (2002) — chemical steam cracking 89.6 90.4 88.6 87.6 87.3 88.2 88.8 86.4 86.6 84.2 N/A
Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons 8.0 5.7 4.4 3.6 4.1 3.6 3.7 4.5 5.3 5.0 21
8Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts 4.5 4.6 4.9 4.9 5.0 5.2 5.3 5.5 5.5 5.3 21
Environmental performance
8Number of acres of managed wildlife habitat 370 370 380 6,400 6,900 7,000 7 ,000 7, 20 0 7,10 0 7,200 N/A
Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters N/A N/A N/A N/A 540 520 420 420 450 440 N/A
Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters 320 350 340 330 370 330 280 270 300 290 27
Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production         
Upstream 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.26 0.26 0.24 0.19 0.35 0.30 N/A
Downstream 0.81 0.90 0.85 0.87 0.88 0.82 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.76 N/A
Chemical 2.36 2.56 2.46 2.41 2.64 2.41 1.98 1.79 1.83 1.75 N/A
Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 N/A
9Significant spills to the environment N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 20 17 19 11 9 N/A
Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel 253 211 242 210 484 356 330 334 319 220 N/A
Oil spills, number of oil spills > 1 barrel 224 185 208 186 387 294 280 288 280 188 N/A
Other spills, number of  chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel 29 26 34 24 97 62 50 46 39 32 N/A
Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels 7.5 20.3 17.4 7.7 17.8 8.5 9.3 9.1 10.8 4.7 28
Other spills, thousands of barrels 0.5 0.4 0.5 40.4 2.0 1.6 0.9 4.1 0.4 3.7 N/A
Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water , thousands of metric tons 1.7 1.8 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.3 1.1 1.1 N/A
Upstream 1.2 1.3 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.0 N/A
Refining  0.5 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 N/A
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.21 0.19 0.16 0.14 0.13 0.13 0.12 0.10 0.11 0.10 N/A
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.16 0.15 0.13 0.12 0.15 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.13 N/A
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.26 0.20 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.15 0.15 0 .16 0.16 0.15 N/Aexxonmobil.com/citizenship 48
Performance dataNotes on performance table:
1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2007 through 2016 all fatalities were injury-related. 
2 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year , illness-related incidents range from 2 to 13 percent. 
3Reduction from 2011 is primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business.
4 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our company-operated 
retail stores are not included.
5 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2005 according to the new metric. The net equity greenhouse gas metric includes 
direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations,  reflecting our percent ownership in an asset.
6 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1.    
7  These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.
8Cumulative figure.
9ExxonMobil began measuring significant spills to the environment, the number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus, in 2012.  
10 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 95 percent of the reported figure in 2008 through 2012.
11Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.
12 Beginning in 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses, small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by peoples with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.
13In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence.
*
  Some unc
ertainty exists in performance data, depending on measurement methods. Data in the report and performance data table represent best available information at the time of publication. Performance data are reported for our affiliates and those 
operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Includes XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. N/A is used to indicate that data are not available, or not detailed in this report outside the performance data table. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Page #
Environmental performance (continued)
VOCs emitted, metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream 0.059 0.044 0.042 0.044 0.049 0.044 0.054 0.059 0.058 0.055 N/A
Refining  0.015 0.012 0.011 0.012 0.011 0.010 0.009 0.008 0.008 0.008 N/A
Chemical 0.039 0.043 0.036 0.036 0.032 0.036 0.034 0.029 0.027 0.027 N/A
Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars 3.8 5.2 5.1 4.5 4.9 5.5 6.0 6.2 5.6 4.9 27
Total dollars spent on environmental penalties and fines, billions of dollars 0.002 0.011 0.002 0.011 0.003 0.004 0.002 0.018 0.015 0.006 N/A
Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.1 0.2 1.2 0.6 1.3 1.7 1.1 1.0 1.4 1.4 N/A
10Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons 0.1 0.4 0.8 1.3 1.9 2.0 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 N/A
Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 
11Community investments, millions of dollars 206.6 252.2 235.0 237.1 278.4 255.6 269.5 279.5 272.3 241.5 35
United States 124.1 144.6 143.0 154.8 161.3 156.5 156.3 150.2 145.5 131.1 35
Rest of world 82.5 80.6 92.0 82.3 117.1 99.1 113.2 129.3 126.8 110.4 35
Local development and supply chain management
12ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars 582 615 887 841 1,068 1,001 1,024 1,108 1,064 1,442 39
Corporate governance
13Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries 6 8 8 7 7 7 9 10 11 15 N/A
Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting 84.9 84.8 82.9 80.7 81.9 83.0 82.3 82.9 83.9 85.1 44
Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars 0.27 0.45 0.49 1.10 0.51 1.03 0.70 1.17 0.58 0.52 N/Aexxonmobil.com/citizenship 49
Assurance statmentLRQA Assurance Statement
Relating to Exxon Mobil Corporation’s Corporate Citizenship 
Report for the calendar year 2016.
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Exxon Mobil 
Corporation in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this report.
Terms of engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was commis-sioned by Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) to assure its processes for reporting safety, health and environmental IPIECA performance indicators used in the Corporate Citizenship Report (CCR) for the calendar year 2016, to a reasonable level of assur-ance using LRQA’s verification approach.
Our assurance engagement covered ExxonMobil’s operations and 
activities worldwide and specifically the following requirements:•
  V
erifying the integrity of the processes used for determining 
which material issues to report;
•
   Ev
aluating consistency with the following industry guidelines: 
  
•
  
IPIECA/API, Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting (2015),
  
•
  
API, Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation 
Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (2009).
Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data and information reported. LRQA’s responsibility is only to ExxonMobil. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. ExxonMobil’s management was responsible for preparing the CCR and for maintaining effective internal controls over the reporting processes and CCR. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting processes in accordance with our contract with ExxonMobil. Ultimately, the CCR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, ExxonMobil.
LRQA’s opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that ExxonMobil’s reporting processes were effective in delivering safety, health and environmental indicators that are useful for assessing corporate performance and reporting information consistent with IPIECA/API Guidance.  The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the Verifier . 
LRQA’s approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our Verification procedure
1; the following tasks were 
undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:•
  R
eviewing the reported information to confirm the inclusion of 
all core safety, health and environmental performance indicators referenced in the IPIECA/API Guidance;
•
  R
eviewing the documented reporting requirements against the 
applicable industry guidelines to assure consistency of scope, definition and reporting for each of the relevant indicators;
•
  R
eviewing the reporting processes at Headquarters and at each of  
the functional business levels to evaluate the processes used by ExxonMobil to assure completeness, consistency and conformance  
to reporting requirements across its global operations;
•
  R
eviewing the stakeholder engagement processes;
•
  R
eviewing the processes used to aggregate the data and 
information at the corporate level for inclusion in the CCR;
•
  R
eviewing ExxonMobil’s data collection tools to assess use in the 
reporting processes;
•
  R
eviewing the data-reporting processes at a sample of nine 
operating sites selected by LRQA to assess local understanding and implementation of reporting requirements. Sites selected were SARPOM Trecate Refinery, Italy; Exxon Neftegas, Sakhalin, Russia; Mont Belvieu Plastics Plant, Texas; Beaumont Chemical Plant, Texas; and lubricant facilities in Apapa, Nigeria; Tianjin, China; Port Allen, Louisiana; Edmonton, Canada; and Jurong, Singapore.   
Observations Further observations and findings made during the assurance engagement are:•
  Pr
ocesses were in place to ensure that sites contributing to core 
safety, health and environmental metrics understood corporate reporting obligations and were included in corporate safety, health, environmental and climate change reporting;
•
  Metho
ds used for calculating each metric were defined clearly 
and communicated;
•
  Pr
ocesses were in place to ensure that the quantitative indica-
tors were checked for completeness, consistency and accuracy;
•
  R
esponsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting 
guidelines was clear , with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken; 
•
  Guidelines for gr
eenhouse gas emissions reporting were 
consistent with, and specifically refer to, the API Compendium for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (2009);
•
  A
ctive engagement with external stakeholders provided 
information for determining material issues.
Observations and areas for potential improvement were provided in a report to ExxonMobil’s management. These recommendations do not affect our opinion. 
LRQA’s competence and independence
LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome  
of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.
LRQA is ExxonMobil’s certification body for ISO 9001 and ISO 
14001 (lubricants operations) and Responsible Care® (chemical operations) and the California Air Resources Board greenhouse gas verification. The certification and verification assessments are the only work undertaken by LRQA for ExxonMobil and as such do not compromise our independence or impartiality.
Signed
   Dat
ed:  March 30, 2017
Andrea M. Bockrath 
LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 
LRQA Reference: UQA0110889
1 LRQA’s Verification procedure is based on current best practice and uses the 
principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and 
Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000.
Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register”. Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the pro-vision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages.
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it 
refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.
Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the 
Lloyd’s Register Group.
Exxon Mobil Corporation
Corporate Headquarters5959 Las Colinas Blvd.Irving, Texas  75039-2298exxonmobil.comExxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso, Mobil 1 and XTO Energy. For convenience and 
simplicity, those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our , we and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. The term “project” as used in this publication can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.
Statements of future events or conditions in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including future energy supply, demand, and mix; 
the future effectiveness of safety, health, environmental, and other risk management processes; efficiency gains; and the impact of future technologies could differ materially due to factors including changes in supply and demand for oil and gas and other factors affecting long-term oil and gas prices; political and regulatory factors including the impact of international accords and treaties; changes in consumer preferences; actions of competitors including the development of competing technologies; the outcome of current and future research efforts; technical and operating factors; and other factors discussed under the heading “Factors Affecting Future Results” available through the Investors page of our website at exxonmobil.com.
Explore our complete 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report at exxonmobil.com/citizenship.