I DELIVER  
A BETTER  
WORLDFedEx Corporation
2010 Global Citizenship UpdateCITIZENSHIPEVERYONE AT 
FEDEX CREATES 
CONNECTIONS 
THAT CHANGE 
PEOPLE’S LIVES 
FOR THE BETTER
7 
Message From  
the Chairman10 
Citizenship  
Performance Metrics18 
Putting  
Opportunity  Within  
Everyone’s  
Reach24 
Improving  
How People  Can Live28  
Finding Better 
Ways to Move the World34  
Solving  
Tomorrow’s  Problems38  
Thinking  
Outside  the BoxI PUT  
OPPORTUNITY 
WITHIN  
EVERYONE’S 
REACH
In developing nations such as Brazil, China and India, 
standards of living are rising, and the global middle class is 
growing fast—from 1.8 billion today to an estimated 5 billion 
by 2030. The opportunity to move up always comes when 
people have more connections to the global marketplace. It’s 
our job at FedEx to help create those connections and make 
them easier and faster to use.12010
1.8 billion2030
5 billionProjected Surge in the 
Global Middle ClassI IMPROVE  
HOW PEOPLE  
CAN LIVE
As people interact with others around the world, their diverse 
skills and perspectives mix, creating new opportunities— and greater prosperity. We know that the amazing diversity of our more than 290,000 team members improves our own business. And we believe that by opening the global 
marketplace to everyone, we help bring prosperity. In 1981, 
52 percent of the world’s population lived on less than $1.25 a day. This percentage is expected to fall to 15 by 2015.
252%
42%
25%
15%
‘81 ‘90 ‘05 ‘15Global Decline  
in PovertyI FIND BETTER 
WAYS TO MOVE 
THE WORLD
Between 2009 and 2010, global investment in low-carbon 
energy increased by $56.5 billion, reaching $243 billion. The world sees a future powered by low-carbon and alternative energy sources. Just as important, it envisions great savings produced by smarter traffic design, smarter routing 
of commercial vehicles and even by actions as simple as 
better driving techniques. Our team members look for every possible way to make moving the world more efficient.
32010
$243 billion
2009$186.5 billionGlobal Investment in  
Low-Carbon EnergyI AM HUNGRY  
TO SOLVE  
TOMORROW’S  
PROBLEMS
Seeing the world in new ways can change everything. 
In Japan, there are plans to install chargers for all-electric cars alongside the country’s ubiquitous vending machines. Globally, hybrid and electric vehicle sales are expected to jump from 954,000 in 2010 
to 5.2 million by 2020. We will make sure that our 
own fleet is part of the solution and advocate for the infrastructure needed to support electric vehicles.
42010
954,0002020
5,200,000Projected Growth in 
Hybrid and Electric Vehicle SalesMany businesses today have the global scale, diverse talents 
and broad expertise to help solve society’s problems, and a recent survey shows that 60 percent of CEOs believe businesses have the unique ability to make a difference. FedEx looks for every opportunity to play our part, from 
moving supplies when disaster strikes to using our unique 
logistics expertise to save a few thousand of nature’s endangered creatures.
5I THINK  
OUTSIDE  
THE BOX
60%CEOs Who Believe  
Business Must Help 
Solve Social ProblemsI AM INSPIRED BY 
HOW THE PEOPLE OF FEDEX CHANGE WHAT’S POSSIBLE
6   I   Fedex corporationMessage From 
the Chairman
FedEx was founded to help commerce 
move faster and more efficiently. As 
we grew, we helped more people and 
businesses around the world access the global marketplace, which, in turn, 
began to make people’s lives better.
According to the National Bureau of 
Economic Research, the global poverty 
rate fell nearly 75 percent between 
1970 and 2006. Of course, FedEx cannot claim credit for that trend, but we certainly contributed to it.
We’ve helped bring new levels of 
opportunity and prosperity to millions around the world. I am proud to be 
part of a team of some 290,000 
FedEx people who improve global prosperity every day. Our team has 
created something very meaningful.
We have truly changed what’s 
possible and because of that, we 
have a commitment to people 
around the globe: to use resources responsibly; to expand our capabilities 
wisely and well; and to help people, 
businesses, and communities thrive.
This Global Citizenship Update offers 
many examples of how we live up 
to our responsibilities. It documents our progress in four specific areas: 
1) Economics and Access,  
2) Environment and Efficiency,  
3) Community and Disaster Relief, and  
4) People and Workplace.
It tells stories of how FedEx team 
members drive us forward responsibly 
and resourcefully. Their actions speak 
just as loudly as the numbers that mark our progress. Every FedEx 
team member contributes.We’ve focused great efforts over the 
past year on reducing our dependence on petroleum. Every day, we deliver 
more than 8.5 million shipments to 
more than 220 countries and territories. Every day, we fly the equivalent of a 
half-million miles, and drive almost 
12 million miles. That’s why we’ve advocated for a future light-vehicle 
transportation system that relies 
more on electricity and less on oil.
In this report, you will learn about our 
team members’ efforts in many areas. 
How they pioneer new technologies that make our systems, vehicles, and routes more efficient. How they help 
our company and the world achieve 
more with limited resources. How they create new connections between 
people and businesses everywhere.
In a truly global economy, prosperity 
depends on global connections. We 
make those connections happen 
reliably, millions of times every day. We provide access to the opportunities 
that make people’s lives better.
We are FedEx, and we intend to 
conduct our business profitably 
while meeting public expectations 
for good corporate citizenship.
In fact, we’ve got about 290,000 
people working on it right now.
Frederick W. Smith
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   7
Frederick W. Smith  
FedEx Corporation Chairman,  President and CEOWE ARE ALL  
INSPIRED
An idea doesn’t become a business on its own. 
New products don’t just show up on a shelf. 
The way the world works doesn’t just naturally 
get more efficient. And problems rarely, if ever, 
solve themselves.
People take action. People make change. 
People shape the world.
FedEx knows this because we see it every  
day. We see it in our customers and in  
the communities we serve. We see it in  
each and every one of our more than  
290,000 team members.
More than 290,000 team members who help 
create new opportunities. More than 290,000 
team members who keep the world connected. 
More than 290,000 team members who 
collectively provide the access people need.
Take a closer look at our company, and you’ll 
see it’s all about our people working to make a 
difference in the way that others are able to live.
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   9AT FEDEX, WE HAVE  
A SIMPLE GOAL :  
TO CONNECT  
 THE WORL D IN 
RESPONSIBLE AND 
RESOURCEFUL WAYS
We track 
progress  
in four  
key areas:Economics  
& Access
Our physical and 
digital networks provide increased 
Access, giving people 
everywhere the means to connect with opportunity and 
innovation.Environment  
& Efficiency
Our role is to expand 
the world’s ability to connect more 
efficiently, while 
minimizing our impact on the environment. We’ve organized our 
efforts to achieve that 
goal in a program we call EarthSmart.Community & 
Disaster Relief
As we expand our 
networks, we improve our ability to provide 
faster emergency 
relief when disasters strike. It’s just one way we leverage 
our infrastructure, 
our expertise and our people to help communities worldwide.People &  
Workplace
Our efforts to serve 
our customers, stakeholders and 
communities are 
brought to life by the everyday actions of our people..2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate   I   11ECONOMICS & ACCESS
Operating Margin Revenue  
(in billions, FY11) 
$39.3
Electronic Trade  
Documents
Customers in 71 countries can 
now submit customs documents electronically using FedEx Electronic 
Trade Documents. FedEx ETD saves 
paper, time and money.Debt to Total Capitalization
777F Trade Lanes
Our 777Fs fly farther on less fuel while carrying more cargo than the MD-11s they replace. The result?  
A steep reduction in cost and emissions per unit transported. We’ve just added 6 more 777Fs, increasing our fleet to 12, and introduced direct flights from Memphis to South Korea and southeast 
China. Based on current purchase options and commitments, we will have 45 777Fs in service by 2020.Diluted Earnings  
Per ShareReturn on  
Average Equity
 =  1 country
New DelhiLondon
ParisDuba iAnchorag e
Tokyo
Osak a
Shanghai
ShenzhenHong KongSingapor e
Seou lMEMPHIS5.8%
FY096FY102.1%  6.1%
FY117FY09
15.9%
FY1012.3%
FY11
10.0%
FY096FY10 FY117$3.76
$0.31$4.57
FY096FY10 FY1178.6%
0.7%  10.0%EPA SmartWay Transport Partnership  
(FY109)
This innovative 
collaboration between the freight industry 
and government 
aims to reduce air pollution and improve fuel efficiency. A 
performance score of 
1.25 is outstanding, 1.0 is very good and 0.75 is good.ENVIRONMENT & EFFICIENCY
12   I   Fed ex corporationAircraft Emissions
We track and reduce our aircraft 
CO2 emissions to lower our carbon 
footprint. Our goal by 2020 is to reduce our CO
2 emissions intensity 
by 20 percent as compared with our 2005 performance.
Vehicles’ Fuel Efficiency Improvement  
(FedEx Express)
Our goal for 2020: Improve the fuel efficiency of the FedEx 
fleet by 20 percent.Enterprise CO2 Emissions  
(in metric tons)
We understand the importance 
of comparable standards. To track our progress on enterprise-wide 
reductions in CO
2 emissions, 
we follow Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Initiative Standards.
FedEx Express FedEx Freight
1.25 1.25
FedEx Ground
0.75FedEx Custom 
Critical1.25Electric & Hybrid-Electric Vehicle Count 
By the end of FY11, we had increased our global EV and  
HEV fleet to 408 vehicles, an increase of nearly 20 percent. The fleet has logged almost 9.5 million miles. That’s almost 
20 times to the moon and back, saving approximately 
276,000 gallons of fuel and reducing our CO
2 emissions by 
nearly 2,800 metric tons.
15.1% FY10
14.1% FY0911.5% FY08
9.3% FY075.4% FY06PERCENT  
DECLINElbs./ATM8 CO2
CY09
8.33%CY1013.5%Goal20% by CY20CY051.55
CY101.34
CY09
1.35CY081.42 CY071.45CY061.51
Penalties & Fines
In FY10, environmental inspections 
resulted in a total of $2,020 in assessments.9.5 million miles traveled
 =  10 trucks365  
HEVs
43  
EVs
SCOPE I 
Direct emissions from sources that are 
owned or controlled by us.
FY09 14,101,552
FY10 13,152,895
SCOPE II 
Indirect emissions that are from 
consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
FY09 1,065,689
FY10 996,872
SCOPE III 
Other indirect emissions, including: 
emissions from fuel sold to FedEx Ground independent contractors and 
FedEx Express feeder aircraft contract 
operators.
FY09 1,132,571
FY10 1,008,49341.5
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate   I   13Electricity Generated by  
Solar Facilities to Date
We now have five facilities, four in the U.S. and one in 
Europe, utilizing solar energy. These five facilities alone are reducing CO
2 emissions by an estimated 3,918 metric tons 
per year. This is roughly equivalent to 440,000 gallons of gasoline or 100,000 tree seedlings growing for 10 years.
FSC-Certified Paper  
in FedEx Office  
Print & Ship Centers
We seek to buy paper for our 
FedEx Office Print and Ship Centers from suppliers certified by the 
Forest Stewardship Council, which 
helps ensure responsible forest management.
FY10 
79.09 %Recycling (millions of lbs.)
We recycle and/or reuse a 
significant percentage of waste, and we look for new technologies 
to help us increase this amount. 
This includes nonhazardous, hazardous, universal and e-waste.
PERCENT OF WASTE RECYCLED  
AND/OR REUSED
FY10
26%
Renewable Energy Credits (FY10)
One Renewable Energy Credit (REC) represents  
1,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity produced by a renewable energy facility. We buy RECs to offset emissions associated 
with the electricity we use and to support efforts to make 
electricity from renewable sources.
30,000 MWh
Facilities With ISO 14001 Certification
ISO 14001 provides a framework for a holistic, 
strategic approach to an organization’s environmental policy, plans and actions. It outlines requirements 
for environmental management systems, and 51 
of our facilities meet those requirements.
51 facilitiesWaste Streams (FY10)
95.76 %  
nonhazardous
(includes solid waste)
2.83%  
hazardous1.30%  
e-waste0.11%  
universal  6,360,000  kWh
FedEx Express 
Oakland, Calif.
2,519,436  kWh  
FedEx Ground   Woodbridge, N.J.751,672  kWh
FedEx Freight  Whittier, Calif.573,348  kWh
FedEx Freight  Fontana, Calif .
11.2 
GWh
962,296  kWh
FedEx Express  Cologne, Germany14   I   Fedex corporationCharitable Shipping
We set aside space for as much as 4 million pounds of 
charitable shipping each year. But when great need comes, we do more. With the earthquake in Haiti and the Gulf of 
Mexico oil spill this year, we donated space for 5.2 million 
pounds of charitable shipping.
equivalent to one 
757 aircraft
5.2 million pounds
total space set aside for  charitable shipping COMMUNITY & DISASTER RELIEF
Charitable Giving 
(cash and in-kind giving as % of  
pre-tax profits)
FedExFY10Average  U.S.  Corporation CY09
101.51%
1.12%
Shipping Donated to American Red Cross 
(in tons, FY10)
Earthquake-stricken Haiti 
remains without adequate water and sanitation facilities 
and has suffered numerous 
cholera outbreaks. Never has our decade-plus relationship with the American Red Cross 
been more valuable. We’ve 
donated shipping for 90 tons of supplies, including cots for hospital use and 500,000 sachets of oral rehydration salts.Direct Relief International
For 16 years, we’ve worked with 
Direct Relief International to deliver medicines, supplies and medical 
equipment. Every year, we contribute 
air freight for 1,500 shipments to disaster-stricken communities.
 = 100 shipments
Gulf Turtle Rescue
The Gulf of Mexico oil spill badly 
hurt the regional ecosystem. We used our ability to transport 
temperature- and vibration-sensitive 
packages to rescue over 25,000 endangered sea turtle eggs.
 =  1,000 eggs
Volunteering
We help our team members around the world make a difference. FedEx Cares Week and the Safe Kids 
Walk This Way program exemplify our commitment to the communities where we live and serve.
FEDEX CARES WEEK
SAFE KIDS WALK THIS WAYNUMBER OF COUNTRIES WITH FEDEX CARES WEEK &        
SAFE KIDS WALK THIS WAY ACTIVITIES
2North America Region26Latin America and Caribbean Region4Europe, Middle East and Africa Region12Asia-Pacific Region4,000volunteers20,000hours  volunteered94cities
1,725volunteers3,450hours  volunteered240citiesPEOPLE & WORKPLACE
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   15Full-time U.S.  
Retention Rate
FY10  92.6% FY09  91.5%Global Team Members
At FedEx, we are as diverse as 
the world we serve, yet we share the common belief that our varied 
backgrounds, skills and experiences 
combine to create a stronger corporation. We understand how the definitions of diversity and minority 
shift depending on cultural context, 
and we value the contributions and perspectives of all team members regardless of race, gender, culture, religion, age, nationality, veteran 
status, disability, sexual orientation 
or gender identity. The diversity of our work force is essential to our 
continued success in today’s ever-
changing global marketplace.
Domestic Partners
This past year we were pleased  
to announce that we will offer benefits to domestic partners beginning in 
January 2012.Global & U.S. Work Force
Gender and ethnic diversity is an asset, and we commit to 
building a global work force that brings together a breadth of backgrounds, talents and perspectives.
27.1% women in our global work force
21.7% women in our management roles globally
U.S. WORK FORCE ETHNICITY
U.S. MINORITIES IN MANAGEMENT
FY10  26.7% FY09  27.0% 
3% Asian 
4% Two or More Races 
11%  Latino 
25%  African-American 
57%  WhiteWOMEN IN WORK FORCE
Total Corporate Spending:  
Minority, Women-owned 
and Small Businesses 
(in billions, FY10)$3.1
SMALL-BUSINESS SPENDING
CY10
86.69% 
other4.64% minority8.67% womenCY09
88.33% other5.31% minority6.36% women
Team Member Engagement
Engaging our team members and getting their input is crucial 
to our success. The percentage of team members who have participated in our annual feedback survey reflects FedEx 
Express, FedEx Freight and FedEx TechConnect, with a 
companywide solution on the horizon.
97.2% FY10
past years’ percentage
93.1% FY0993.4% FY08 Selected Awards & Recognitions (January 1, 2010 – April 15, 2011)
No. 8, “Most 
Admired 
Companies,” 
FORTUNE 
Magazine“Top 10 Most 
Reputable U.S. 
Companies,” 
ForbesDow Jones  
Sustainability  
Index No. 1, “Top 20 
U.S. Printers,” 
EPA Green Power 
Partnership“Top 500 Greenest 
U.S. Companies,” 
Newsweek
Top 50, Reputation 
Institute CSR Index, 
Boston College“Committed to 
the Environment 
Award,” The 
International 
CharterTop 20, “Asia’s 
200 Most Admired 
Companies,” 
The Wall Street 
Journal (Asia)  “Corporate Award 
for Balance,” 
Lindbergh 
Foundation“100 Best 
Companies to Work 
For,” FORTUNE 
Magazine
16   I   Fedex corporation “Best Places 
to Work in IT,” 
Computerworld 
MagazineTop 40, “Best 
Companies 
for Diversity,” 
Black Enterprise 
Magazine“Platinum Award,”  
Air Cargo 
Excellence Awards“Best Global 
Cargo Hub” – 
Memphis World 
Hub, Institute 
of Transport 
Management“Best All Cargo 
Airline,” Asian 
Freight & Supply 
Chain Awards 
EarthSmart is our commitment to minimize our impact on 
the environment. Our aim is to find or create new ways not only to improve our own company’s environmental 
performance, but also to point the way for other companies 
in our own industry and beyond. Specifically, EarthSmart covers three areas: Solutions, @ Work and Outreach.
References
ACCESS  
http://access.fedex.com
ANNUAL REPORT   
http://ir.fedex.com
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
http://ir.fedex.com/committees.cfmCODE OF BUSINESS  
CONDUCT AND ETHICS  
http://ir.fedex.com/downloads/code.pdf
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
http://www.fedex.com/us/
investorrelations/corpgov
DIVERSITY COUNCILS AND ALLIANCES  
http://csr.fedex.comGLOBAL CITIzENSHIP  
http://csr.fedex.com
VALUES  
http://www.fedex.com/us/
about/today/mission.htmlSOLUTIONS  
(see page)
Electronic Trade Documents 11
Electric and Hybrid-Electric  
Vehicles 12, 37
LEED Certification 32
FedEx Paper  Recycling Programs 
40@ WORK  
(see page)
777F Aircraft 11, 23
Solar-Powered Facilities 13, 33
Renewable Energy Credits 13
ISO 14001 Certification 13
Recycling 13, 26, 40
FSC-Certified Paper 13
Ground Logistics and  
Model Operations 29
Eco-Driving Program 30
ROADS Program 31
Hydrogen Fuel-Cell Forklifts 37OUTREACH  
(see page)
Gulf Turtle Rescue 14, 42
Tree Canada 32
EMBARQ 36WE DELIVER  
WHAT TOMORROW 
REQUIRES TODAYWant to see an economic growth engine? 
There’s one in every package we move around the world. The connections we  
create help people find opportunities that previously didn’t exist where they live. They help all businesses reach the global marketplace. They bring small businesses  
the resources they need to grow and bring new benefits to their customers, employees and communities.
18   I   Fedex corporationPUTTING    
OPPORTUNITY
WITHIN  
EVERYONE ’S  
REACH To Catalyze Commerce,  
You Need a World Full  
of Connections
By connecting the world, we create 
opportunity. And opportunity, it 
becomes clearer every day, is 
what fuels economic recovery.
As businesses rebound from the Great 
Recession, we see them learning 
to take advantage of faster, more 
technologically advanced Access. 
They’re becoming leaner and more 
nimble, further reducing inventory costs 
and reaction time. They’re rethinking 
business models, creating innovations 
that give them the advantage of 
being aligned to the technological 
realities of today. And perhaps most 
important, they’re able to connect 
to more of the world’s markets, 
creating mutual benefit between developed and emerging markets.
FedEx, of course, plays a key role in 
connecting emerging markets with 
opportunities that simply don’t exist 
within their borders. This expands 
the global market, creating a virtuous 
cycle. Developed countries gain 
access to new goods and services, as well as to the growing middle 
classes in emerging markets. Then 
the people and businesses in 
emerging markets gain access to 
new consumers for their wares, as 
well as to products and services that 
improve their health and well-being.
We call it the Access Effect: the 
jobs and prosperity that come to 
communities when their businesses can connect to the global marketplace. 
In a study we sponsored, SRI International—a third-party research 
firm—found that prosperity does 
increase when communities get 
more connected. According to the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative (USTR), 95 percent of 
the world’s consumers live outside of the United States. Increasingly, these 
global consumers are also providers 
of goods and services that are vital 
to the success of all economies.
The surging middle class in the  
Asia-Pacific region is primed for 
products we produce here, fueling prosperity both in the United States 
and abroad. America’s small- and 
medium-size enterprises alone 
exported $173 billion to the Asia-Pacific 
region in 2008, according to USTR.
The rising middle class in the 
developing world is not only a boon 
for mature economies, it’s also a boon 
to struggling industries. For example, the automotive industry is coming 
back as families in developing nations 
reach the magic number of $10,000 
annual income—the point when car 
ownership becomes affordable. In 
2009, China passed the United States 
as the world’s largest auto market.
That’s good news for areas like 
Michigan, which has the design 
skills and experience that Chinese 
automakers need. Last year, General 
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   19Connecting the dots between emerging 
economies and the world: A FedEx Express truck travels through Kowloon, China.
As businesses 
rebound from the Great Recession, we see them learning to take advantage of faster, more technologically advanced Access.20   I  Fedex corporationMotors sold more cars in China than 
at home, posting a $4.7 billion profit.
That’s why Chinese companies like 
Pacific Century Motors are investing 
in the American auto business. Pacific 
Century in late 2010 bought Nexteer 
Automotive, which designs and 
makes steering systems, from GM. 
Pacific Century kept Nexteer running 
in Saginaw, Mich., because that’s 
where the talent and expertise are.
It’s a win-win situation.
Faster global connections allow those 
win-wins to happen. Connections help 
businesses expand their access to a 
wider world of ideas and enterprises, 
giving every business the ability to have 
global impact from Day 1. Technology 
allows people in far corners of the world 
to work together as if they were in the 
same room, creating opportunities for 
new global business models to emerge.
“We have created a lot of jobs here and 
in other countries with this product,” 
says Scott “Woody” Woodworth, the 
founder of Loudmouth Golf, a line of 
clothing for golfers that is as colorful 
as its name implies. In this company 
with no headquarters, sewing jobs 
are created in China’s factories while 
sales and technology jobs create 
opportunity in the United States.
Loudmouth started producing in China 
in 2008 and did $751,000 in business, 
all through internet sales. A year 
later, the addition of wholesale sales 
drove revenue to $2.4 million. Sales for 2011 are projected at $12.5 million, 
and the company has distribution 
depots—and jobs—on six continents.
And it’s all done with a new business 
model with little inventory that 
requires a fast-moving supply chain. 
Opportunity exists all along this supply 
chain, from the California homemaker 
who fills orders while her children are 
in school to the tailor in China who 
cuts and sews custom sports coats.
The new norm of rigid control of 
inventories is possible only in a world 
of reliable logistics. For decades, 
we’ve enabled business models 
that rely on speed. Today, through 
our technological and organizational 
innovations, we don’t just help business 
models evolve; we create new ones.
We are more than a shipping company. We catalyze global commerce, 
helping businesses find and seize 
opportunity in a changing world.
“ We have created a 
lot of jobs here and in other countries with this product.”
A FedEx Express truck navigates the 
crowded streets of Delhi, India.2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   21Odie Pruitt is a manager of Nexteer 
Automotive’s main manufacturing plant 
in Saginaw, Mich. Nexteer was on the 
brink of collapse, then was saved by a 
deal with China’s Pacific Century Motors. 
Nexteer designs and manufactures 
steering systems for automakers the 
world over. Pruitt is the second of three 
generations of Pruitts to work in the plant.
FedEx plays a role in the Access Effect: 
the jobs and prosperity that come to communities when their businesses can connect to the global marketplace.22   I   Fedex corporationA Matter of Degree: Moving 
Medicine Farther, Safely
Karl Kussow reads the fine-  
print instructions for medicines.  
Very carefully.
“Some bottles come with a whole book 
of instructions on how to care for that 
pill,” he says. “Temperature is almost 
always a part of that.”
As the pharmaceutical and healthcare 
industries expand rapidly, a global 
FedEx team is developing very 
specialized capabilities to serve 
this market, improving healthcare 
services and supplies around the 
world. Advances in temperature-
controlled shipping combined with our 
worldwide network enable us to ship 
medicines to benefit physicians and 
patients everywhere, thus bringing new  
healthcare opportunities to people in 
remote locations.
In some corners of the world,  
we are delivering medicines never 
before available. We’re also using  
our speed and technology to  
connect labs producing generic drugs  
in emerging markets like India to 
patients everywhere.
“As the largest air cargo network in the 
world, we are better equipped to get 
things from here to there, fastest and 
with the greatest care,” says Richard 
Smith, Managing Director of Life 
Sciences and Specialty Services at 
FedEx Express. “The biggest issues are 
time and temperature, and we can be there every step of the way.”
Healthcare spending is growing around 
the globe. The shipping costs alone are 
more than $24 billion. Our response to 
this critical and growing market is FedEx 
HealthCare Solutions, an innovative 
and customizable portfolio of leading-
edge tools to meet packaging, shipping, 
monitoring and distribution needs of  
our healthcare customers.
Smith and Kussow (who manages 
Quality and Validation at FedEx Custom 
Critical) lead teams that develop and 
test shipping innovations for the  
healthcare industry. They take their 
work very seriously.
“Your children or mine might be taking 
one of these medicines,” Kussow says, 
“so it’s important the pills work when 
they arrive at the doctor’s office.”
At FedEx Express, we’ve pioneered 
two game-changing ideas for 
temperature-sensitive freight: Deep 
Frozen Shipping Solution and Thermal 
Blankets. The newly developed Deep 
Frozen Shipping Solution maintains 
cryogenic temperatures, twice as cold 
as dry ice, but safer to use and more 
environmentally sensitive. We also 
introduced the use of Thermal Blankets 
to maintain comfortable temperatures 
during aircraft loading and unloading.
Other services—air-conditioned 
aircraft, enhanced security and state-
of-the art monitoring services such as 
SenseAware and FedEx Priority Alert —
help ensure the integrity of these 
important shipments. SenseAware 
makes in-transit information—a 
package’s internal temperature, 
exposure to light and its location—
available to customers via the web in 
near real-time.
We also stand ready with contingency 
plans for disruptions caused by anything 
from customs delays to weather delays. 
With our own team members involved 
in every link of the process, we’re able 
to get drugs like meningitis vaccines, 
malaria drugs and H1N1 flu vaccines to 
India, Southeast Asia and parts of Africa.
“In some areas, if you ran out of 
medicine, it could be six weeks before a 
new shipment arrived,” Smith says. “In 
some cases, certain medicines simply couldn’t get there. We’re making it 
possible to get what you need, when 
you need it and in the right condition.”A Clinical Pak, designed by FedEx Health-
care Systems to carry critical medical items.
In some corners  
of the world, we  
are delivering 
medicines never before available.2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   23Trade and the Environment: 
What’s the Connection?
It seems like a contradiction: the idea 
that expanding trade and improving  
the environment can be mutually 
beneficial. But studies are beginning 
to show that policies and practices 
that protect the environment can also 
augment trade competitiveness.
To help provide essential data, we 
sponsored a Yale University study to 
analyze the complex relationships 
between trade and the environment. 
The report examines the competing 
theories, reviews the data and 
establishes a model for future research.
The Yale study suggests that expanded 
trade and pro-trade policies appear 
to improve overall environmental 
health, but sometimes put pressures 
on specific ecosystems.
We believe it’s important to understand 
consequences and trade-offs. That’s 
why we also supported the 2010 Yale 
Environmental Performance Index, an 
analysis of environmental performance 
in 163 countries and a source of critical information for policymakers working to 
improve environmental sustainability.
We want to serve everyone, 
everywhere, with a full 
understanding of what it takes to 
create opportunity and preserve 
our resources simultaneously.In This Case, Bigger  
Is Better
In a world in which lean is good, can 
a 766,000-pound airplane provide 
solutions? That’s what we’re seeing 
in the Boeing 777F, a gentle giant 
that makes a big difference.
The “Triple Seven” is already 
increasing access to new Asian 
markets while reducing operating 
costs and environmental impact. In 
March 2011, we added a new 777F 
route, connecting our World Hub 
in Memphis to South Korea with 
four nonstop flights a week.
As companies tighten inventories and 
depend on just-in-time deliveries of 
supplies and finished products, the 
Boeing 777F gives businesses a 
competitive edge when every minute counts. The plane carries 178,000 
pounds of cargo more than 5,800 
nautical miles nonstop. It uses  
18 percent less fuel than the aircraft  
it is replacing while reducing 
emissions per ton of cargo.
We’ve just added 6 more 777Fs, 
increasing our fleet to 12—on track 
to having 45 in service by 2020. At the same time, we are replacing our 
Boeing 727s with 757s, which have 
47 percent lower fuel consumption 
per pound of revenue payload 
and lower maintenance costs.
More efficient planes are one important 
way we keep global businesses 
connected while conserving fuel 
and preserving the environment.Benefits of the 777F Compared 
With the MD-11
14,000 lbs.
more cargo capacity
111,900 nautical milesgreater range
18%
less fuelconsumed
1218% reduction in emissions per ton of cargo
12The world is changing fast, and we face big questions: How can we adapt 
our operations to the needs of local markets and the global economy simultaneously? Where will we find the innovations we need to prosper? 
How do we give our leaders (and the leaders of tomorrow) new ways to 
look at a swiftly changing world? FedEx has a great advantage as we look for answers: a global work force of more than 290,000 team members serving more than 220 countries and territories. We are never at a shortage 
for diverse ideas, talents and perspectives.IMPROVING  
HOW PEOPLE  
CAN LIVE
24   I   Fedex corporation2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate   I   25Global Culture Meets Local 
Culture, and Flourishes
Eighteen years ago, David Bronczek, 
now FedEx Express President and 
CEO, had just become senior vice 
president for our operations in Europe, 
the Middle East and Africa. Dissatisfied 
with the company’s performance in 
these countries, he pushed for change.
Antje Schütt-Fahrenkrog, then a senior 
manager of customer service, was at 
a meeting where Bronczek delivered a 
clear message: Business performance 
was unacceptable. “I was furious about 
the too negative picture he painted 
about German FedEx management,” 
Schütt-Fahrenkrog recalls. “I had 
steam coming out of my ears.”
That steam propelled FedEx Express 
toward a local-leadership model that 
quickly turned performance around 
in Germany, and eventually helped 
FedEx earn spots on “Best Places to 
Work” lists in more than 20 countries.
“Our local people knew they were not 
performing well,” Bronczek says today, 
recalling the early 1990s in Germany. 
“They said they could do better, but they 
didn’t have a voice. We learned we had 
to work alongside the local culture.”
At that pivotal meeting, Schütt-
Fahrenkrog saw culture clash as the 
root of the problem. “I knew there were 
ways to overcome the differences if the 
local management could just be heard,” 
she says today. So that night, she sent 
an email to Bronczek saying exactly that.
Schütt-Fahrenkrog’s phone rang at  
7:30 a.m. It was Bronczek’s office 
asking her to come to Brussels. She had 
no time to prepare. Her presentation 
was 15 sheets from a flip chart 
pinned on Bronczek’s office wall.
Her message: FedEx needs local 
people who have been exposed to the 
FedEx philosophies and culture, but 
who also carry valuable knowledge 
of local cultures and mentalities.If Schütt-Fahrenkrog was anxious about 
speaking up, it evaporated when she 
sensed Bronczek and the assembled 
executives were interested in her 
ideas. The conversation went on for 
four hours and led to real change.
Talented local leadership paired with 
a strong corporate culture turned 
out to be a powerful mix, Bronczek 
says today. “You can’t be successful 
if you don’t have the combination 
of the two,” he says. “You have 
to embrace the corporate culture 
as well as the local culture.”
Although Schütt-Fahrenkrog 
respects the local view, she also 
sees that creating Access across 
national borders requires a global 
mentality that allows people to see 
beyond their native cultures.
Schütt-Fahrenkrog, who started 
with FedEx as a data-entry clerk 
25 years ago, is now Regional Vice 
President of Operations for Central 
and Eastern Europe and Israel. And 
what started as a local leadership 
initiative in Germany became the 
new standard for our company.
“We vigorously defend our corporate 
culture,” says Bronczek. “We 
mesh it with the local culture, 
and it works beautifully.”
Schütt-Fahrenkrog’s passion for 
blending international cultures 
and her courage to press the 
case are characteristics that help 
us in our continuous efforts to 
recruit talented local people and, 
above all, to listen to them.
“The FedEx culture and people 
are perfectly fitted to match 
any other nation’s culture,” says 
Schütt-Fahrenkrog. “But it doesn’t 
happen by itself. It requires 
energy, direction, communication 
and, above all, leadership.”Antje Schütt-Fahrenkrog, now Regional Vice 
President of Operations for Central and 
Eastern Europe and Israel, helped teach a 
global company the value of local leadership.
Percentage of Management &  
Executives Who are Local
98.4%
Asia-Pacific  
RegionLatin America and Caribbean Region99.0%
98.1%
Europe, Middle East and Africa RegionCanada99.7%
“Ground Green” Cuts  
Waste at Our Hubs
Mike Vickers wanted answers: 
How much waste did we generate 
in one facility? Across a district? 
Could we recycle any of it?
So Vickers, Managing Director for 
FedEx Ground Desert district, turned 
to Eric Pagano, Senior Manager 
in Tempe, Ariz., to develop and 
implement new sustainability efforts 
in their district. Pagano’s team worked 
with a local vendor to identify and 
segregate waste that can be reused 
or recycled, minimizing the waste 
going to landfills. The team identified 
facilities where they could install bailers 
to compact and ship out recyclable 
cardboard, paper and plastic film. 
Shredders were installed at various 
facilities to shred cardboard for reuse.
Now, FedEx Ground shreds material 
that used to go to landfills and 
reuses it for packing, which saves 
money and materials by reducing the 
need for bubble wrap and packing 
peanuts. We also use plastic bags 
to transport small items, and then 
recycle these bags to make new ones.
“We leverage our entire network, and 
empower every hub and station in the 
district to participate,” says Vickers.
Pagano’s and Vickers’ leadership has 
generated 170,000 pounds of recycled 
materials since 2006, the official launch  
of “Ground Green.” As a part of the 
networkwide recycling program, the 
Desert district realized a 25 percent 
reduction in waste-removal costs.  
As of June 1, 2010, FedEx Ground had 
recycled more than 46 million pounds 
of paper, cardboard, scrap metal and 
plastic film.
Vickers’ team is not stopping there. 
They are searching for ways to 
meet a very ambitious long-term 
goal: zero waste to landfills.
26   I   Fedex corporationA New Generation of  
Global Entrepreneurs
With nothing more than colored 
chalk, a group of African teenagers 
created a portrait of a brighter future.
The honor of winning the first Africa 
Region Junior Achievement Company 
of the Year award went to a group of 
teen entrepreneurs from Lusoti High 
School in the Lubombo Region of Swaziland—not for their use of colored 
chalk, but because of their successful 
business venture to become the only 
producers of chalk in their country.
Expanding the competition to Africa 
marked another milestone in our 
company’s 14-year relationship with 
Junior Achievement, the world’s largest 
organization dedicated to inspiring and 
preparing young people to succeed 
in a global economy. We sponsor 
JA’s Company of the Year regional 
competition in Europe, the Middle East, 
North America, Africa, Latin America 
and Asia-Pacific, setting the stage 
for the teenagers of today to become 
the entrepreneurs of tomorrow. We 
also award the FedEx Access Award, 
given to a student company that 
best demonstrates an understanding 
of global trade and sustainability.Impact of Ground Green
46 million lbs.
recycled
25%
decline in waste removal costScholarship Opens  
Doors for Hispanics
Only one in eight Latinos has a college 
degree, the lowest rate of any ethnic 
group in the United States. We’re 
helping to change that.
To provide opportunity to the leaders 
of tomorrow, we support the Hispanic 
Scholarship Fund, an organization 
dedicated to increasing the graduation 
rate of Latinos in America. In the six 
years we’ve been involved, we’ve 
invested in the college educations of 
nearly 30 students.
Ed Andujar, Managing Director and 
Controller for our Latin America and 
Caribbean region, credits the Hispanic 
Scholarship Fund for supporting him 
during his time in business school. Now 
a leader at FedEx, Andujar encourages 
families to take advantage of the fund. 
In town hall meetings, students and 
parents learn how to apply, select and 
pay for college. Most students who 
attend the meetings will be the first in 
their families to go to college.
“Students might not really know what’s 
waiting for them in college, or what’s 
expected of them in corporate America 
when they graduate,” says Andujar.  
“It makes me feel proud to say I am a 
product of the fund and how committed 
FedEx is to it.”
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   27Restoring Rewards for  
Team Members Who Keep 
Us Rolling (and Flying)
We could not efficiently meet the 
demands of a global marketplace 
without our team members’ diverse 
backgrounds, talents and perspectives. 
Having a truly global work force, with 
all the diversity that phrase implies, 
creates incredible value in an evolving 
world. Our people understand the 
cultures and marketplaces where they 
work every day, and they understand 
how local businesses link to the global 
marketplace. Because they do, they 
drive our success.
Those contributions deserve reward, 
and this year, we were pleased to 
restore many compensation programs 
and 401(k) matching contributions 
after cuts were made to weather the 
economic downturn. We also continued 
a long tradition of being named one of 
the best companies to work for in the 
world, receiving awards in 21 countries, 
including Brazil, Chile, France, Italy, 
South Korea and Mexico.
“The FedEx reinvestment in employee 
programs shows the commitment to 
the loyalty, capacity and development 
of your employee base,” says Judith F. 
Samuelson, Executive Director of the 
Aspen Institute’s Business and Society 
Program. “It is common sense,  
but it seems so extraordinary when  
it happens.”Best Places to Work Recognition  
(January 1 – December 31, 2010)
 
2011 HIGHLIGHTS 
Aon Hewitt 
“Best Employer Award” Malaysia,  
New zealand and Singapore
Aon Hewitt 
“Best Employer for Women Award” Korea26  awards 
21  countriesWe spend a lot of time looking for imperfections. Why? 
Because every time we find one and fix it, we make our business more efficient— and we make global commerce 
move faster. Every new efficiency helps our business, 
expands global marketplaces and, ultimately, makes the world more sustainable. When businesses find ways to do more with less, the effect on the world can be significant.FINDING BETTER  
WAYS TO MOVE  
THE WORLD
28   I   Fedex corporation2,500
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   29Sorting Smarter
Sometimes faster isn’t faster.
Efficiency trumps speed, whether 
we’re sorting, loading, unloading or 
hauling packages. Improving efficiency 
lets us move more freight, faster, in a 
more environmentally responsible way.
In the U.S., we use new technology 
and our Quality Driven Management 
(QDM) system to make sure our 
operations maximize efficiency. In 
Asia-Pacific, we’ve re-engineered 
our station operations to ensure 
we’re efficient as well as reliable.
“We are constantly looking for new 
technologies and materials that will help 
us be more efficient,” says Mark Bitzer, 
Senior Manager of Process Engineering 
for FedEx Ground. “Everything from 
how we handle the package to how 
we load the truck plays a role.”
FedEx Ground uses the QDM process 
to improve efficiency. One example  
is technology we developed to  
help FedEx Ground get the 
most possible shipments into 
line haul trucks—18-wheelers 
that move packages from one 
FedEx facility to another.
The system scans every package to 
measure its dimensions, and with 
every load, we know what percentage 
of the trailer’s capacity was actually 
used. That information helps us train 
team members who load trailers, which 
leads to better utilization of trailer 
space, which in turn leads to fewer 
trucks on the road, less wear and tear 
on vehicles and less fuel consumed.
Also, using drop-frame trailers allows 
each vehicle to carry 12 percent 
more shipments than the more 
typical straight-rail trailer. Drop-
frame trailers take advantage of the 
space between the front and back 
wheels, maximizing our load.
It’s a true triple win: Over the course 
of an entire year, those additional packages per trailer translate into 
2,500 fewer line haul trailers on the 
road. We’re saving 70 million road miles 
annually. And we’re using 10 million 
fewer gallons of fuel every year.
“By maximizing trailer capacity and 
continuously improving our route 
structure to reduce miles, we 
reduce our fuel costs and help 
the environment,” says Severn 
McMurty, Senior Vice President 
of Operations Planning and 
Engineering at FedEx Ground.
In Asia-Pacific, most stations now 
use Model Ops, a FedEx Express-
designed program improving the way 
packages move through each step 
of the pickup and delivery process. 
We overhauled in-station planning 
and work methods, and the routes 
are reviewed regularly to see what 
changes will make them more efficient.
“We taught our team members 
about route restructuring,” says 
Karen Reddington, Managing 
Director for Planning and Engineering 
Support. “We taught them how 
to have a balanced workload.”
How FedEx Express sorts packages is 
a key element of Model Ops. Changes 
were made to how sorting is handled 
in both the morning and afternoon 
cycles, allowing our couriers more time 
for delivery. And when couriers spend 
more time on the road, we can deliver more packages with fewer trucks.
It’s working: The 12 stations in 
the Asia-Pacific region that piloted the Model Ops program now 
handle 15 percent more packages 
per hour than they did in 2007.
From sorting packages to delivering 
them, we strive for efficiencies that 
will help our business and our planet.
“The goal is not to work harder or 
faster,” Reddington says. “The 
goal is to deploy resources more 
effectively.” And that’s smarter for 
our people and the environment.Packages speed through our hub in  
Bedford Park, Ill.
A More Efficient System
+
Quality Driven Management
million miles  
not driven70 10
million gallons  
of gas saved ESTIMATED SAVINGS=
fewer trailers on the 
road drop-frame  
trailers30   I   Fedex corporationIt’s Not Just the Truck  
and the Traffic. It’s 
the Driver, Too.
When we use less energy, we 
accomplish two goals: We make our 
business more efficient and profitable, 
and we save precious resources.  
So we look at energy consumption from 
every possible angle.
Consider our delivery vehicles.  
We know that three things affect how 
much energy you use when driving:  
what you’re driving, where you’re 
driving and who’s driving.
So, every year, we put more efficient 
vehicles on the road. We use 
technology to change our routes  
as daily traffic patterns change.  
And we teach our team members  
to drive better.
For 13 years, FedEx Express operations 
agent Masateru Yahagi has navigated 
the clogged streets of Tokyo to get to 
work. Yahagi is one of hundreds of team 
members participating in Eco-Driving, 
a program in the Asia-Pacific region 
designed to lower our vehicles’ effect 
on the environment by changing daily 
driving habits.
“I have changed the way I drive,” says 
Yahagi, who began his FedEx career 
as a courier and now supervises fuel 
consumption for all drivers in Japan. “I 
understand more about the impact my 
driving has on the environment.”
Jeremy Goldstrich, Managing Director 
for Ground Operations for Japan, Guam 
and Saipan, agrees. “Using fuel is the 
nature of our business,” he says. “If you 
have engagement and awareness from 
the front line to the executive level, you 
can make a huge difference.”
Goldstrich is part of a team that 
collaborated with Isuzu Motors to 
create Eco-Driving. The program will soon launch across Asia and, eventually, 
around the world. Using Isuzu’s research, the FedEx team identified 
about 20 actions to decrease a vehicle’s 
emissions, such as gentle acceleration, 
flat speed, early-off acceleration, the 
careful use of air conditioning and the 
reduction of idling time.
“The program is successful because of 
its simplicity, its versatility and the fact 
that it connects to what they’re doing—
driving the vehicle,” says Goldstrich.
With Eco-Driving, the responsibility 
to reduce emissions begins with our 
drivers. If they learn and teach new 
habits, the program will be a success.
Couriers in Japan spend about  
70 percent of their time in vehicles, 
driving about 60 miles a day and making 
up to 30 stops. Reminders of Eco-
Driving are visible where it matters—in 
the vehicle itself. Drivers use key chains that display the five principles, and 
Eco-Driving stickers are popping up in 
prominent places in most of the trucks.
And it’s working. Since the program 
began about 18 months ago, fuel 
efficiency has improved by 5 percent  
at the largest station in Japan, which 
has 150 routes.
We teach Eco-Driving in the community, 
too. We do Eco-Driving seminars for 
all our team members in the stations 
where the program is in place, and 
extend invitations to the community  
to participate.
“FedEx has many programs that focus 
on efficiency. Some are huge, costly 
endeavors that have a positive impact 
on the environment,” says Goldstrich. 
“We’re doing the same thing with Eco-
Driving, but on a very personal level. It’s 
about how each of us can contribute 
every single day. The cumulative impact 
can be enormous.”
(For more on our work to help the people  
of Japan following the record earthquake, 
see Page 39.)Key chains for our delivery vehicles carry 
tips to help couriers save fuel as they travel.2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   31On City Streets, the 
Shortest Distance from  
A to B Changes Daily,  
But ROADS Can Find It
We get up early. By 4 a.m. every day, 
we’re already planning how to drive  
less and deliver more.
Well before dawn, critical information 
begins to stream into each of our 
stations: What kind of packages are we 
getting from that day’s flights? How 
many will there be? Where do they 
need to go?
To provide answers, a complex 
technology called Route Optimization 
and Decision Support (ROADS) helps 
us streamline everything in our FedEx 
Express operations, from sorting to 
delivery. Each piece of the puzzle 
is important, right down to where a 
package sits on a truck. It’s part of  
our commitment to move more things 
with less fuel.
Because delivering packages to the 
world represents about two-thirds 
of our costs, we aim for the perfect 
alignment of people, processes and 
technology to reduce those costs as 
well as our environmental footprint. 
That’s where ROADS comes in.“With more planning on the front  
end, we’re able to use fewer routes  
and drive less,” says Kirsten King, 
Managing Director of Engineering 
Support and Analytics. “We’re doing 
more than saving time; we’re learning  
to make better decisions.”
With the computer-assisted planning 
provided by ROADS, station managers 
can adapt territories daily. No matter  
the volume of a day’s incoming 
packages, ROADS synthesizes 
information to help station managers 
chart the most efficient day possible. 
Using historical data, ROADS creates 
“what-if” simulations to inform  
decisions and adapt zone boundaries.
ROADS works by compiling  
information in a central place and 
making it accessible to the team 
members who need it. ROADS makes 
training new team members easier, 
providing information they need 
immediately to make efficient decisions 
under the pressure of deadlines.
We’ve found ROADS to be particularly 
helpful when weather disrupts the 
region managed by a station. Our 
engineers can use these planning tools 
to redraw territories and increase the 
reliability of delivery in areas affected 
by tornadoes, snowstorms or flooding. 
And we’re working on making the 
system even smarter, automating daily 
tactical decisions, which allows us to 
accommodate the specialized needs of 
individual customers.
Ideally, those customers will never 
notice the new system. They’ll just  
see its benefits: greater reliability  
and versatility.“ With more planning 
on the front end, we’re able to use fewer routes and drive less. We’re doing more than saving time; we’re learning to make better decisions. ”Our Route Optimization and Decision Sup-
port system (“ROADS” for short) helps us 
figure out how to direct every delivery to its 
destination in the most efficient way.Planting Trees,  
Planting Knowledge
One tree at a time. That’s how we help 
Canada’s environment.
Through a program called Greening 
Canada’s School Grounds, FedEx 
Express Canada has sponsored the 
greening of more than 37 school 
grounds across the country. More than 
200 volunteers from the company have 
participated in one of the company’s 
first EarthSmart Outreach programs.
The focus is broader than simply 
planting trees and shrubs. It plants 
knowledge within students, teaching 
them the value of energy saving, carbon 
sequestration and beautification. The 
program works with Tree Canada, a 
nonprofit organization encouraging 
Canadians to plant and maintain trees. 
So far, Tree Canada has planted more 
than 77 million trees. FedEx Express 
Canada has also supported reforestation 
programs across Canada, especially in provinces hard hit by forest fires.
32   I   Fedex corporationLEED-Certified Complex  
in Las Vegas Saves Big
Here’s a winning formula: Technology + Innovation + Commitment = 
A Healthier Environment. 
Our EarthSmart Solutions program 
has applied this formula to new 
construction. The FedEx Express facility 
in Las Vegas in December 2010 became the first in the company to receive 
certification by Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED
®), 
the U.S. Green Building Council’s 
system for rating the environmental 
performance of buildings. Since then, our FedEx Express World Headquarters 
in Memphis and our enterprise 
data center in Colorado Springs, Colo., have received certification. 
Today, two FedEx Express stations 
in Houston are awaiting certification. FedEx Express has made LEED 
certification the standard for 
newly built U.S. facilities.
The Las Vegas complex (a package-
sorting facility, vehicle maintenance 
bay and an office building) scored several successes by:
•  Reducing indoor water  
use 49 percent through  
low-flow fixtures
•  Installing skylights and 
evaporative cooling
•  Recycling 86 percent of 
construction waste
•  Ensuring that 75 percent  
of the regularly occupied 
spaces are sunlit
Overall, energy savings are estimated to be 42 percent.We have been responsible for the 
distribution and planting of 48,106 trees 
since the start of our collaboration with 
Tree Canada. =  2,000  
trees 
FedEx World Headquarters  
in Memphis, Tenn.
Enterprise data center in  
Colorado Springs, Colo.Solar Power Earns Big 
Efficiencies in Operations 
and Energy Use
The roof is big. With almost four 
soccer fields’ worth of shining solar 
panels that produce enough electricity 
to service 80 homes for a year, the 
new Central and Eastern Europe hub 
at Germany’s Cologne-Bonn airport 
is the largest FedEx Express solar 
installation, in size, worldwide.
“This solar-powered facility is the 
latest renewable energy example 
of our commitment to responsibly 
connect the world for our customers 
through innovative solutions,” says 
Mitch Jackson, Vice President of 
Environmental Affairs and Sustainability.
Cologne is the newest of five FedEx 
solar facilities. By using solar energy 
at these locations (Cologne, plus three 
in California and one in New Jersey), 
we’ll reduce our annual carbon dioxide 
emissions by about 3,918 metric tons, 
the equivalent of more than 440,000 
gallons of gasoline never burned or 
more than 100,000 tree seedlings 
growing for 10 years. And the Cologne 
hub expands our access to markets 
in Europe and the Middle East. 
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   33Electricity Generated by Solar Facilities to Date
6,360,000 kWh
FedEx Express Oakland, Calif.
2,519,436 kWh  FedEx Ground
   
Woodbridge, N.J.751,672 kWhFedEx Freight 
 
Whittier, Calif.573,348 kWhFedEx Freight  Fontana, Calif.
11.2 
GWh
962,296 kWhFedEx Express  Cologne, GermanyWe believe the smartest way to innovate is to build on what we learn.  
With delivery trucks moving around the world’s most congested cities 
every day, we learn a lot about cities’ transportation patterns, how to  
move through them more efficiently and how to cut fuel consumption.  
We use what we’ve learned to innovate within our own operations—and in collaboration with others. We help countries improve public transportation and envision the modern infrastructure they need.  
And we develop and advocate for new technologies that help us move  
our fleet (and the world) off fossil fuels.SOLVING  
TOMORROW’ S  
PROBLEMS
34   I   Fedex corporation2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   35Bold Leadership on  
Electric Vehicles
“After terrorism and the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction, 
our increased dependence on 
petroleum represents the biggest 
single threat to our nation’s 
economy and national security.”
Frederick W. Smith, our Chairman, 
President and CEO, delivered 
those words to the U.S. Senate 
Appropriations Subcommittee on 
Energy and Water Development 
in February 2010. Many business 
leaders shy away from addressing 
tough issues, but our chairman 
speaks up. He tirelessly advocates 
for the dramatic change needed to 
let the United States fuel itself.
Smith is the co-chairman of the Energy 
Security Leadership Council (ESLC) 
and a member of the Electrification 
Coalition, two organizations facing 
petroleum dependency head on.
FedEx daily delivers more than  
8.5 million packages and shipments 
to more than 220 countries and 
territories. We do this with more than 
290,000 dedicated team members, 
679 aircraft and about 70,000 ground 
vehicles worldwide. Those facts make 
Smith highly credible when he speaks 
out about U.S. dependence on oil.
The ESLC, an arm of Securing America’s 
Future Energy, is a group of business, 
military and political leaders who assert 
that freedom from dependence on oil 
is an overarching national security and 
economic security issue. It echoes the 
stance of the Electrification Coalition, a 
nonpartisan, not-for-profit organization 
committed to promoting policies 
and actions that will encourage the 
widespread use of electric vehicles.
We helped the Electrification Coalition 
create the Fleet Electrification 
Roadmap, which analyzes the 
economics of electric vehicles for fleet 
operation and targets opportunities for models that will help this idea 
take hold. The Roadmap places an 
emphasis on reducing the production 
cost of the batteries required to 
operate electric vehicles and balancing 
the use of the Earth’s resources.
Smith also recognizes that we  
have work to do within our own 
company: Out of 70,000 vehicles, 
only a few hundred are all-electric 
or hybrid-electric vehicles. Capital 
costs are daunting, but we are 
taking steps in the right direction.
We now have all-electric delivery 
vehicles in use in Los Angeles, Paris 
and London, and we will be introducing all-electric delivery trucks to New York 
City, Chicago and Memphis in 2011.
The Los Angeles trucks have a 
range of about 100 miles on a single 
charge, perfectly adequate for many 
pickup and delivery routes in dense 
urban environments. But adequate 
is not our goal. We’re pushing for 
more. “Another 50 miles of range or 
power and cutting the battery cost in 
half, and you really have a compelling, 
disruptive technology,” Smith said.
What’s ahead? We’ll continue to work 
on solutions, including legislation 
and regulations that make change a reality. We’ll keep sounding the 
call that it’s time to start the shift to 
electric vehicles, with videos and 
other communications tools. And 
we’ll continue to lend our practical 
experience to shape an industry and 
create a new way of fueling America.
We’re pushing for 
more performance 
from all-electric 
delivery vehicles. 
Says Fred Smith: 
“Another 50 miles 
of range or power 
and cutting the 
battery cost in 
half, and you really 
have a compelling, 
disruptive 
technology.”One of 43 FedEx Express all-electric trucks 
operating in the U.S. and Europe. U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu with  
Keshav Sondhi, Chief Engineer of our 
electric vehicle program.
36   I   Fedex corporation
Untangling Traffic Jams 
With EMBARQ
They’re called “arrival cities,” the 
great sprawling areas surrounding 
metropolitan giants like Mumbai, 
India, Rio de Janeiro and Chongqing, 
China. Millions more people arrive 
each year, looking for ways out of 
poverty. But traffic congestion that 
borders on coagulation obstructs 
the quest for prosperity.
“Many of the countries we serve 
in the developing world have been 
experiencing substantial economic 
growth,” says Mitch Jackson, FedEx 
Vice President of Environmental 
Affairs and Sustainability. “Growth 
means more prosperity and 
opportunity. But with this growth has 
come congestion from vehicles.”
That’s why we contribute our 
expertise and financial support to 
EMBARQ, a nongovernmental 
organization helping cities design 
safe, efficient and environmentally 
responsible transportation networks 
that deal with the challenges of 
traffic congestion and pollution.
“The collaboration between FedEx and 
EMBARQ provides the potential for a 
better environment, less congestion, 
increased safety and enhanced 
competitiveness in cities where 
we do business,” Jackson says.
Given our extensive knowledge 
of vehicle technologies and traffic 
patterns in the world’s cities, we 
believe we have much to contribute. 
Our first major project with EMBARQ 
allowed us to share our expertise with 
Mexican transit officials looking to 
improve how they manage fleets of 
buses that number in the thousands.
In one example of our work, Keshav 
Sondhi, Chief Engineer for Global 
Vehicles at FedEx Express and 
the program manager for electric 
vehicles, helped Mexican transit officials understand how to manage 
the life cycle of each bus in their 
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) fleet.
BRT operates buses like trains, moving 
them along special corridors and 
stopping only at special stations. In 
Mexico City, BRT carries more than 
450,000 riders daily, more than 
half the volume of the entire Metro 
system in Washington, D.C. The 
benefits are immediate: BRT takes 
thousands of cars off the road and 
in 2010 eliminated about 114,000 
tons of carbon dioxide pollution.
“Getting this opportunity to share 
what we’ve learned at FedEx 
with global communities is great 
because it will have an effect on 
countless lives,” Sondhi says.
Ethan Arpi, EMBARQ’s Strategic 
Communications and Marketing 
Manager, says, “What FedEx was 
able to do was explain some principles 
of matching the technology to the objective: If you’re trying to achieve this 
result, you should consider this kind of 
technology; if you want another result, 
you should choose this type of fuel.”
Our contributions of experience and skill 
do more than boost the well-being of customers and citizens in communities 
we serve. They also help our own team 
members. More than half of our team 
in Mexico uses public transportation 
to get to and from work each day.A Metrobus moves quickly past stalled traffic 
in Mexico City.
We want all of 
industry to benefit. And developing a hybrid-electric fleet has put us in collaboration with various state and federal agencies.2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   37Experimenting With 
Everything That Moves
Innovation is usually the outcome of 
countless trial-and-error experiments. 
Vehicles are a good example. If 
a truck is too big for the job, its 
efficiency is wasted. If the route that 
truck follows is poorly designed, 
potential fuel savings will be lost.
Innovation requires more than 
good ideas; it takes continuous 
experimentation at every step of our 
long delivery chains. This learning  
leads to better solutions, for us and  
our industry.
In hybrid and all-electric technology,  
our research falls into two broad 
categories: developing the best 
vehicles and creating the supporting 
infrastructure. We experiment with 
new vehicles and retrofit older units 
with electric or hybrid drive trains 
as conventional diesel engines and 
transmissions wear out. Building 
an infrastructure to support all-
electric trucks includes designing 
intelligent charging stations.
Innovation sometimes means 
“unlearning.” For years we assumed 
hybrids would outperform all diesels. 
But some newer diesels, like our 
5,500 (soon to be 9,500) Mercedes 
Sprinters, are outperforming gasoline 
hybrids—and they’re less expensive.
We want to do more than generate 
new knowledge for ourselves. We 
want all of industry to benefit. And 
developing a hybrid-electric fleet has 
put us in collaboration with various 
state and federal agencies. We’ve 
also teamed up with international and 
domestic manufacturers to produce and 
operate new hybrid-electric vehicles.
We’re also testing all-electric ground-
support, including cab-forward cargo 
tractors and updated belt loaders and 
cargo loaders. We experiment with 
everything that moves to make it 
more efficient. That’s how we learn.Fuel-Cell Forklifts?  
We Can Do That.
Sustainable energy, like safety, is not  
an option. It’s how we do business.
For decades our forklifts, the 
indispensable workhorses of fast-paced dock operations, have been 
powered by propane. Electric power 
seemed promising in early tests, but batteries were expensive, lasted only 
three years and took nearly 16 hours to 
charge properly.
Could hydrogen fuel cells be an 
answer? Our commitment to 
energy savings through innovative technologies led to collaborations with 
a fuel-cell manufacturer, a hydrogen 
supplier and the U.S. Department of Energy. The result was the successful 
retrofitting of the 35-unit forklift fleet at 
our Springfield, Mo., facility with fuel cells. The forklifts can refuel and be 
back in service in minutes.
After more than 14,000 hours of 
operation without major interruptions 
for service, the units are performing 
beyond expectations. The experiment demonstrates the technology’s power 
to lower costs and our ability to make 
sustainable energy viable. Clean air is good business.Collaboration Improves  
Our Industry
Air freight companies compete 
vigorously, but through an international 
association, we also collaborate in a 
powerful way. David Bronczek, FedEx 
Express President and CEO, is the 
current chairman of the Board of 
Governors for International Air Transport 
Association (IATA), a global trade 
association representing 230 passenger and freight airlines.
“More than anything else, we want 
to work together to make the airline 
industry as safe as it can possibly be,” 
Bronczek says. “As an industry,  
we’re trying to become more financially 
successful while introducing  
new technologies, becoming less 
dependent on oil and reducing an 
airplane’s carbon footprint.”
IATA’s members carry more than  
90 percent of the world’s passengers 
and freight. An important initiative  
for the association is building support 
for updated air traffic control systems 
for the European Union and the  
United States.
“Right now, each European country has 
their own system, making it difficult to quickly fly through nine different air 
traffic control systems,” Bronczek says. 
“Converting to one system will reduce 
delays, improve customer service, save 
fuel and emit less carbon.”
In the United States, this effort is 
centered in NextGen, a Federal Aviation 
Administration initiative that, pending 
federal legislation, will streamline air 
traffic control in this country. Today’s 
airplanes, such as the Airbus A380 and 
the Boeing 777F, are already equipped 
to handle a more modernized air traffic 
control system. 
Through IATA, we’re working with 
government and industry leaders to 
build support.1=3.9
fuel-cell 
forkliftmetric tons of GHG emissions reducedEach hydrogen fuel-cell forklift in service represents a reduction of 3.9 metric tons of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on an annual basis.With size comes responsibility. A company like ours—more 
than 290,000 people running the world’s most powerful and versatile shipping and logistics networks in more 
than 200 countries — has a responsibility to use our size, 
scale and global reach to benefit people. Not just our team members. Not just our customers. Not just our shareowners. But everyone. We can use our scale to attack the world’s 
challenges in ways that make a real difference. And when 
disasters hit, we can adapt our networks to provide what’s needed, when it’s needed.THINKING  
OUTSIDE  
THE BOX
38   I   Fedex corporation2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   39Our Global Reach and 
Unique Expertise Combine 
to Help When Disasters Hit
Natural disasters can strike anywhere. 
Casualties often number in the tens 
of thousands. When people need 
immediate assistance, we use our 
unique shipping expertise, global 
reach and long-standing relationships 
with humanitarian agencies to help 
lead a worldwide response.
In Japan, we responded with cash 
and shipping services to move 
emergency supplies to victims of the 
tsunami and earthquake. In fact, in 
every major disaster in recent years 
we have put our global network at the 
service of emergency relief efforts.
In Haiti, FedEx Trade Networks 
teamed up with Heart to Heart 
International, sending aid shipments 
to those affected by the earthquake. 
FedEx Trade Networks provided two 
cargo containers filled with donations 
of medical supplies, bottled water 
and beds. The cargo containers 
were then converted into school 
buildings for Haitian children.The need for assistance doesn’t stop 
with the first shipments. Long-term 
recovery requires the operational scale 
and logistical expertise FedEx can 
provide companies and agencies that 
want to help. The challenge is matching 
the donor to the need. We can help with 
that as well, and did so in 2010 when 
Haiti was rocked by an earthquake 
that killed more than 250,000 and 
left nearly 1.5 million homeless.
“In the months following the 
heartbreaking disaster, we received 
countless phone calls from the business 
community,” says Stephen Jordan, 
Executive Director of the Business 
Civic Leadership Center (BCLC), an 
arm of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 
People wanted to know where their 
companies could help, and how to 
figure out what would do the most good.
“It became clear to us that we needed 
a better way to understand where and 
how financial and in-kind contributions 
were being allocated,” Jordan says.
The BCLC approached FedEx for 
funding and expertise, and together we 
worked with InterAction—the largest 
alliance of U.S.-based nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) that focus on the 
world’s poor— to create a database 
to track aid projects and needs. Haiti 
Aid Map (www.haiti.ngoaidmap.org) 
launched quickly and began tracking 
hundreds of projects run by 78 different 
aid organizations in 139 communities.FedEx worked with 
InterAction—the largest alliance of U.S.-based nongovernmental organizations that focus on the world’s poor— to create a database to track aid projects and needs.FedEx team members in Miami pitched 
in for our relief efforts in the wake of the 
earthquake that devastated Haiti.40   I   Fedex corporation
We Minimize Waste and 
Maximize Recycling
Nathan Loftice saw big opportunities 
and big challenges when he 
began evaluating recycling 
programs for FedEx Office.
He started by assessing the waste 
coming out of our 1,800 FedEx Office 
locations across North America. 
He quickly determined that about 
95 percent of it had the potential 
for recycling. Big opportunity.
But most of those locations are 
in retail storefronts not owned 
by FedEx. And very few have 
recycling options. Big challenge.
So today, we’re waging a war against 
waste on two fronts: minimizing 
waste and maximizing recycling.
We started with our team members. 
Every job they run without an error 
saves time, money and reduces waste. 
By engaging them, we were able to 
reduce waste through better processes.
“Reduce, reuse, recycle,” is how 
Loftice, who serves FedEx Office 
as Senior Manager of Sustainability and Environmental Affairs, sums it 
up. “Practically, it means, don’t run 
a job that’s going to generate waste. 
Don’t start a job and then walk away 
and neglect it, then end up having to 
throw it away. It’s about getting the 
job done right, the first time, on time.”
Then, we spent roughly three months 
building our own paper-recycling 
infrastructure at FedEx Office locations 
in North America. In the 200 locations 
where existing infrastructure allowed 
“single-stream recycling” (where recyclable items are separated from 
other waste after they leave our 
locations), we were able to eliminate 
external trash dumpsters, replacing 
them with recycling dumpsters.
These actions produce not only 
environmental savings but also cost 
savings. In these 200 single-stream 
locations, our efforts to minimize 
waste and maximize recycling 
have produced a cost savings of 
$300,000. We expect the annual 
savings to continue at that rate.
The environmental savings? In the 
most recent six-month period, we’ve 
recycled more than 1,000 tons of 
paper. Every ton of paper recycled 
saves 17 trees. That equates to more 
than 17,000 trees saved in six months.Protecting customer confidentiality  
and helping the environment:  
A giant paper shredder handles waste 
from FedEx Office locations.
FedEx Office 
Recycling Snapshot 
(December 2010 – May 2011)
2,065,567 lbs.  
of paper recycled
17,557 trees  
saved from being cut down
7,229,4 84  gallons  
of water saved
61,966  lbs.  
of air pollution avoided
3,098  cubic yards  
of landfill space saved
4,234,412  kWh  
of electricity saved
475,081  gallons  
of oil saved2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   41Making Roads Safer
More than 1.3 million people die every 
year in automobile crashes. Another 
50 million people are injured, many 
critically. For kids around the world, 
vehicle crashes—not disease—are the 
No. 1 cause of death. In the U.S., motor-
vehicle injuries are the No. 1 cause 
of death in the first 30 years of life.
These losses devastate families. And 
auto-related incidents cause nearly $100 billion in losses to the U.S. 
economy every year. Our business 
depends on the world’s roads, so 
we work hard to make them safer 
for everyone who uses them.
To do this, we collaborate with Safe Kids 
Worldwide in nine countries to help 
reduce the toll. For more than 10 years, 
we’ve learned how to make roads 
safer and created safety programs 
that communities can maintain.
Despite our progress, an epidemic 
of traffic deaths and injuries is on 
the horizon. Vehicular traffic around the world grows faster than the 
modernization of roads, and will make 
pedestrian injuries a leading cause of 
death for all children by 2030 if we do 
not act now to slow down the epidemic.
The Decade of Action for Road Safety, 
recently launched by the United 
Nations, aims to raise awareness 
and stop the epidemic in all U.N. 
countries. The Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention in Atlanta has 
defined the crisis as a public health 
issue, but one that can be conquered 
with efforts like the Decade of 
Action. Through Safe Kids Worldwide, FedEx works toward the common 
goal of safe roads for everyone.
For example, we sponsor Safe 
Kids Walk This Way in Chengdu, 
China. During “International Walk 
to School Month,” the program 
encourages children to “stop, look 
and cross” when walking to school.
“Educating children about pedestrian 
safety raises their awareness about 
the risks they face on the roads,” says 
Dan Luo, Safe Kids Team Leader for the 
project. “These informed children can 
have a positive effect on the adults, too.”
Our mission is to apply our shipping 
expertise to the challenge of creating 
not only safer highways for drivers, but 
also safe and accessible walkways 
for pedestrians. Too often, growing 
communities overlook the need to create safe spaces for pedestrians 
as they expand roadways. This is 
especially true in developing nations, 
where more than 90 percent of fatal 
collisions occur. Children are the 
primary casualties in accidents  
involving pedestrians.
Safe roads are more than abstract 
infrastructures. They are essential 
components of thriving communities. 
We believe we can use the power 
of scale to help ensure the world’s 
roads and walkways become 
valuable community assets 
instead of hazardous liabilities.
In Shanghai, China, Senior Station Agent 
Xiaochun Ge teaches pedestrian safety to 
schoolchildren. 
$13.5
Over the last decade, we’ve invested 
$13.5 million in raising awareness about 
the importance of road safety and child 
pedestrian safety.Investment in Raising Road 
Safety Awareness  (in millions)trucks from the Gulf of Mexico to 
the Kennedy Space Center in Cape 
Canaveral, Fla., where they finished 
their incubation.
Pico described the project as 
“innovation drawn up from desperation.” 
It is also an inspiring story of 
collaboration. “What made this  
so unique is it really felt like we 
mobilized the entire FedEx Corporation,” 
Pico says. “I don’t think I’ve ever 
worked with a corporate partner where 
so many different aspects of their 
business mobilized around one of  
our projects.”
For FedEx, it was more than the 
logistics of pallets and trucks. The 
rescue mission inspired extra efforts, 
including public education to draw 
attention to the need to protect 
precious natural resources. “It brought people together,” Pico says. “It was 
good news at what was a really dark 
time for sea turtles in the Gulf.”
Best of all, it was a story with a happy 
ending. In all, 14,700 hatchlings  
(almost 60 percent of the 25,000 eggs 
we transported) successfully  
crossed the beaches and swam into  
the Atlantic Ocean.Turtle Rescue Reroutes  
an Ancient Life Cycle
As a massive oil spill began spreading 
toward the U.S. shores of the Gulf 
of Mexico last year, some already 
endangered creatures lay helpless in 
the path of the disaster.
Every spring and summer, huge 
sea turtles lumber onto the warm 
beaches of the Florida Panhandle to 
lay eggs deep in the sand. After the 
tiny hatchlings emerge from their 
shells about 60 days later, they use the 
cover of darkness to cross the beach 
and enter the ocean. Thirty years 
later, mature female turtles that have 
survived the hazards of life return to the 
very beaches where they were born to 
lay their own eggs.
The oil spill threatened that ancient 
cycle. The hatchlings would perish if 
they swam into the sludgy mess. The 
solution was simple but untested: Move 
the nests of eggs across Florida to the 
cleaner waters of the Atlantic coast.
That’s where FedEx came in.
“When I told them FedEx could help, 
my colleagues were practically in tears, 
they were so relieved,” says Michelle 
Pico, Marine Programs Director at the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.
A team from FedEx Custom Critical 
worked with scientists to create special 
coolers and pallets to secure the eggs 
for their ride in temperature-controlled “ What made this so 
unique is it really felt like we mobilized the entire FedEx corporation.”
42   I   Fedex corporation
Volunteers carefully loading sea turtle eggs  
into a temperature-controlled FedEx Custom 
Critical trailer in Florida’s St. Joe Bay during 
the 2010 Gulf oil spill.A loggerhead hatchling 
makes the perilous 
journey from its nest to 
the ocean.
A happy ending: Almost 15,000 of the 
sea turtle hatchlings whose eggs had been relocated by FedEx during the Gulf oil spill made it safely across Cape Canaveral beaches and into the Atlantic.
2010 GL oBaL citi ZenSHip U pdate    I   43SOURCES
1  Gertz, Geoffrey and Homi Kharas. (2010). 
“The New Global Middle Class: A Cross-Over 
from West to East”. Wolfensohn Center for 
Development at The Brookings Institution.
2  World Bank. (2009). “Latin America beyond the Crisis: Impacts, Policies, and 
Opportunities”. Washington, DC: World Bank.
3  Morales, Alex. (January 11, 2011). “Low-
Carbon Energy Investment Hit a Record $243 
Billion in 2010, BNEF Says”. Bloomberg. 
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-
01-11/low-carbon-energy-investment-hit-a-
record-243-billion-in-2010-bnef-says.html
4  Green, Jeff and Angela Greiling Keane. (November 23, 2010). “Obama Bolsters 
U.S. Hybrid Auto Sales in Waning Consumer Market”. Bloomberg Businessweek . http://
www.businessweek.com/news/2010-11-23/obama-bolsters-u-s-hybrid-auto-sales-
in-waning-consumer-market.html
5    (2010). “Shaping the Future: Solving Social Problems through Business Strategy – 
Pathways to Sustainable Value Creation in 
2020”. Committee Encouraging Corporate 
Philanthropy. http://www.corporatephilanthropy.
org/research/thought-leadership/research-
reports/shaping-the-future.html 
6    Results for 2009 include a charge of $1.2 
billion ($1.1 billion, net of tax, or $3.45 per 
diluted share), primarily related to impairment 
charges associated with goodwill and aircraft.
7    Results for 2011 include charges of approximately $199 million ($104 million, net of tax and 
applicable variable incentive compensation 
impacts, or $0.33 per diluted share) related  
to the combination of our FedEx Freight and FedEx National LTL operations, 
effective January 30, 2011 and an accrual 
for a legal reserve at FedEx Express.
8    Available ton mile (ATM) is defined as one ton of capacity (cargo) transported one mile.
9 FedEx Custom Critical is listed as FedEx Truckload Brokerage at http://www.epa.gov/smartway/transport/partner-list/index.htm#f
10 (2010). “Giving in Numbers – 2010 Edition”. Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy. 
http://www.corporatephilanthropy.org/research/
benchmarking-reports/giving-in-numbers.html
11 Assumes a range of 5,800 nautical miles at Maximum Operational Revenue 
Payload (MORP) of 178,000 lbs. 
12 Assumes 4,000 nautical mile stage length, 
on a payload-adjusted-unit-basis.FEATURED TEAM MEMBERS
The FedEx global team is more than 290,000 
people strong. We are proud to use this book to  
picture just a few of the people who create the 
connections and innovations that change people’s 
lives for the better. 
COVER   
Ronald Johnson, FedEx Freight (Richfield, Ohio)
PAGE 1  
Guilherme Gatti, FedEx Express (Miami, Fla.)
PAGE 2  
Christine Minidoque, FedEx Express (Paris, France)
PAGE 3  
Fanlun Meng, FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.)
PAGE 4  
Theresa Haney, FedEx Express (Miami, Fla.)
PAGE 5  
Arthur Miguez, FedEx Express (Miami, Fla.)
PAGE 8  
(shown: top left to right)  Thanh Anderson,  
FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.); Qrica Seaberry, 
FedEx Ground (Richfield, Ohio); Dorothy Moses, 
FedEx Custom Critical (Richfield, Ohio); Ashley 
Praytor, FedEx Express (Miami, Fla.); Julio 
Colomba, FedEx Express (Miami, Fla.); Yone 
Boutsingkham, FedEx Express (Paris, France); 
Jamal Baali, FedEx Express (Paris, France); 
Lu Wang, FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.); 
Simon Jenkins, FedEx Office (Richfield, Ohio)
(cropped: top left to right)  Elizabeth Mazier, 
FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.); Paul Sojda, 
FedEx Ground (Richfield, Ohio); Justin Hudia, 
FedEx Custom Critical (Richfield, Ohio); Russ 
Ortman, FedEx Freight (Richfield, Ohio); Brian 
Bowser, FedEx Ground  (Richfield, Ohio); Katie 
Costigan, FedEx Custom Critical (Richfield, Ohio); 
Bill Logue, FedEx Freight (Memphis, Tenn.); 
Victor Valdes, FedEx Express (Guatemala 
City, Guatemala); Stefanie Pfaff, FedEx Office 
(Richfield, Ohio); Yvonne Kelly, FedEx Freight 
(Richfield, Ohio); Lori Henry, FedEx Freight 
(Memphis, Tenn.); Sandy Everett, FedEx 
Ground (Richfield, Ohio); Mary Walsh, FedEx 
Services (Memphis, Tenn.); Mike Lauderdale, 
FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.); Candace 
Lockhart, FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.); 
Lisa Horne, FedEx Express (Memphis, Tenn.)
PAGE 18  
Chady Abouabdallah, FedEx Ground  
(Richfield, Ohio)
PAGE 24  
Kristi Richardson, FedEx Services 
(Memphis, Tenn.)
PAGE 28  
Alioune Samb, FedEx Express (Paris, France)
PAGE 34  
Traci Buck Stubblefield, FedEx Express  
(Memphis, Tenn.)
PAGE 38  
Sharan Salian, FedEx TechConnect  
(Memphis, Tenn.)
INSIDE BACK COVER  
Rita Holden, FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.)
BACK COVER  
Teena Lopez, FedEx Services (Memphis, Tenn.)
Strategy + Design by Unboundary, Inc. Atlanta, GA  I  Printing by Cenveo  I  Portrait Photography by Greg MillerFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this report may be consid -
ered forward-looking statements, such as state -
ments relating to management’s views with re -
spect to future events and financial performance. 
These statements are subject to risks, uncertain -
ties and other factors that could cause actual re -
sults to differ materially from historical experience 
or from future results expressed or implied by the statements. Potential risks and uncertainties 
include, but are not limited to, economic condi -
tions in the global markets in which we operate, new U.S. domestic or international government 
regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities 
or international conflicts, and other factors that 
can be found in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
FEDEX CORPORATION
942 South Shady Grove RoadMemphis, TN  USA  38120
citizenship@fedex.com 
All the paper utilized in the production of this  
book contains 100% pulp derived from post-  
consumer recycled fiber. This paper is also  
certified by the Forest Stewardship Council,  
which promotes environmentally appropriate, 
socially beneficial and economically viable  
management of the world’s forest.
REALIzED SAVINGS:
12,723 gal. wastewater flow saved  
1,408 lbs. solid waste not generated  
2,772 lbs. net greenhouse gases prevented  
21,216,000 BTUs energy not consumed  
1.5 barrels fuel oil unusedTHE WORLD  
NEEDS  ME.
I AM FEDEX POSSIBILITY