2021
ESG
Report2021 ESG Report FedEx2
About this ESG Report
The FedEx 2021 ESG Report discusses our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategies, 
goals, and programs. Unless otherwise noted, this report reflects ESG progress and performance  
for each of our operating companies and all geographies in our 2020 fiscal year (FY20), which ended  
May 31, 2020 (references to FY relate to the 12-month period ended May 31 of the year referenced).
Key performance highlights are included in each chapter, while detailed performance data, including 
our year-over-year performance, is included in the Data appendix . Our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions data were externally verified  by Cventure LLC. 
This report references indicators from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. In addition, this 
report contains disclosures in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Please visit the Reporting Framework 
Index  for more information about these disclosures.Contents
Introduction  2
About this ESG Report 2
Chairman’s letter 3
About FedEx 4
Global ESG governance 5
Our COVID-19 response 7
Environment 10
Our approach—reduce,  
replace, revolutionize 10
Climate 11
Aviation fleet 12
Vehicle fleet 13
Facilities and materials 15Social 17
Our culture 17
Health and safety 18
Human resource  
management 20
Governance 26
Governance framework 26
Risk management 26
Corporate integrity  
and compliance 27
Cybersecurity  
and data privacy 29
Public policy and advocacy 30
Our supply chain  30
Data appendix 32
Environment 32
Social 38
Governance 41
» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx3
At FedEx, keeping the world connected—in 
good times and during periods of great 
need—is who we are and what we do every 
day. As you will find in the following report, 
through our environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) strategies, FedEx has 
connected the communities where we live  
and work in remarkable ways.
Since the pandemic began, FedEx has kept 
global industrial, healthcare, and at-home 
supply chains moving, with safety as our top 
priority. To promote safety, we’ve implemented 
additional protocols, communications, and 
operational changes as we continue our 
essential operations. From January 2020 to 
March 2021, FedEx Express shipped more  
than 80 kilotons of personal protective 
equipment globally, all while accommodating 
historic e-commerce volumes. We rigorously 
planned for the transport of COVID-19 
vaccines into communities in need, and on 
December 14, 2020, at 5:53 a.m. ET, FedEx 
Express courier Christine Arigo delivered the 
first COVID-19 vaccine in the United States.  
Chairman’s  
letterAs of the end of March, FedEx is delivering 
COVID-19 vaccines, related ingredients, and 
supplies to more than 25 countries around  
the world, and we are prepared to transport 
these critical shipments for as long as it takes 
to eradicate COVID-19.
Environment:  As part of our longstanding 
mission to connect the world responsibly  
and resourcefully, we recently announced  
a bold new goal to achieve carbon neutral 
global operations by 2040. To get there, we will  
focus on three key areas: vehicle electrification, 
sustainable energy, and natural carbon 
sequestration. In pursuit of truly sustainable  
air operations, we’ve pledged substantial 
support to help establish the Yale Center for 
Natural Carbon Capture. This new center will 
accelerate research into methods of carbon 
sequestration at scale, with an initial focus on 
helping to offset greenhouse gas emissions 
equivalent to current airline emissions.
Social:  Our FedEx culture is built upon  
our people-service-profit philosophy, a 
quality-driven mindset, and a pledge to  
make every FedEx experience outstanding. 
During the pandemic, we found new ways to 
connect with our team and our customers as 
we live out these commitments. For example, 
we increased outreach regarding benefits like 
our free telemedicine for FedEx health plan 
participants and 24/7 confidential counseling 
for all employees and their household members 
amid this challenging period.
Maintaining an inclusive workplace has  
been a foundational practice, and we’re 
committed to continuous improvement.  In 2020, we established a Diversity, Equity,  
& Inclusion (DEI) Depot, an online platform  
to create more awareness of DEI-related 
resources, events, and team member stories 
across operating companies. We’ve also 
increased educational opportunities—including 
unconscious bias training—and we maintain 
employee support communities including 
Women in Leadership, Black Professionals 
Network, Asia Network, U.S. Military Veterans, 
and many others.
Governance:  FedEx is committed to the highest 
levels of ethics, integrity, and reliability. A strong 
governance framework, starting with the FedEx 
Board of Directors and its committees, supports 
the efforts described above and all priorities 
across the enterprise. The oversight provided  
by the Board and its committees, which includes 
our corporate social responsibility and human 
resource management strategies and programs, 
is guided by the FedEx Code of Conduct, which 
applies to every FedEx Board member and 
employee globally.
At FedEx, we believe a connected world is  
a better world, and that belief helps guide 
everything we do. Whether we’re transporting 
vaccines to move the world forward, 
connecting the world more sustainably, or 
bringing together a more inclusive global  
team, I’m proud of each of these connections 
and the team members who have made these 
important initiatives possible.
Frederick W. Smith  
Chairman and CEO» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx4
About FedEx
FedEx provides a broad portfolio of 
transportation, e-commerce, and integrated 
business solutions through operating 
companies competing collectively, operating 
collaboratively, and innovating digitally under 
the FedEx brand. Our principles help us to 
deliver more seamlessly and efficiently for 
customers now and into the future. Our size, 
scale, and network help us connect people  
with goods, services, ideas, and technologies. 
We believe that a connected world is a better 
world, and that belief guides everything we do.
For more information on our business operations 
and financial results, please see the About Us  
and Investor Relations  sections of our website.
ESG approach and 
implementation
Our ESG approach is aligned with our 
company’s mission and values and embedded 
into our systems and our culture. An emphasis 
on long-term performance has guided our 
company since our founding nearly five 
decades ago and lies at the heart of our 
business and our decision-making. To help 
ensure we remain focused on the right 
priorities for our stakeholders, we conduct 
regular ESG materiality assessments, most 
recently in 2019. Our mission and principles
Mission
FedEx Corporation will produce superior financial returns for its shareowners by 
providing high value-added logistics, transportation, and related business services 
through focused operating companies. Customer requirements will be met in the 
highest quality manner appropriate to each market segment served. FedEx will  
strive to develop mutually rewarding relationships with its team members, partners,  
and suppliers. Safety will be the first consideration in all operations. Corporate  
activities will be conducted to the highest ethical and professional standards.
Strategic operating principles
Compete collectively   
Our operating companies 
compete collectively  
as a broad portfolio  
of customer solutions, 
managed under the 
unified FedEx brandOperate collaboratively  
Our networks operate 
collaboratively to  
deliver the best  
service to customers 
without compromiseInnovate digitally   
Our organization  
innovates digitally to 
improve our physical  
and digital networks  
now and in the futureOutcomes of our 2019 materiality assessment 
continue to inform the evolution of our global 
ESG commitments, strategies, and goals. We 
prioritize the material ESG areas where we can 
use our most valuable assets—the talent of  
our team members, global transportation 
networks, and logistics expertise—to reduce 
risks and add the greatest possible value to 
society. This includes our approach to climate 
change and environmental sustainability; 
creating a diverse, equitable, inclusive, and  
safe workplace; and conducting business in  
an ethical and professional manner. We align 
our global community engagement program, 
FedEx Cares , to help support these ESG 
priorities. For more detail on our materiality 
assessment, please see the Materiality section 
of our 2020 report.
To help ensure we remain 
focused on the right  
priorities for our stakeholders, 
we conduct regular ESG 
materiality assessments,  
most recently in 2019.
.Our operating companies, guided by a shared 
purpose, report on a core set of metrics in 
support of the enterprise strategy. As part  
of our ongoing commitment to transparency, 
we publicly share our performance results, 
learnings, challenges, and successes. For more 
information about the policies that inform  
our sustainability strategy, see our Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy Statements  
webpage. Please refer to the Data appendix   
for FY18–FY20 ESG performance results.» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx5
Board governance
The FedEx Board of Directors and its 
committees oversee our global sustainability 
initiatives. The Board is responsible for 
reviewing and overseeing our culture and 
evaluating management’s efforts to align 
corporate culture with our stated values  
and long-term strategy. The Board has 
delegated responsibility for specific aspects  
of our ESG strategy to certain committees  
as outlined below:
 » The Nominating & Governance Committee  
has oversight responsibility for our  
corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
strategies and programs, including with 
respect to sustainability. The committee 
receives updates at least annually from  
our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) and 
provides feedback to inform future activities.
 » The Compensation Committee  reviews  
and discusses with management  
our key human resource management  
strategies and programs, including  
diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) 
initiatives, workforce demographics,  
and enterprise healthcare programs.
 » The Audit Committee  reviews the 
implementation and effectiveness  
of the company’s corporate integrity  
and compliance programs. » The Information Technology Oversight 
Committee  reviews and discusses with 
management the company’s cybersecurity 
and technology-related risks and the 
technologies, policies, processes, and 
practices for managing and mitigating  
such risks and monitors business continuity 
and disaster recovery capabilities and 
contingency plans.
The Board of Directors has determined  
that each member of the Nominating  
& Governance Committee, Compensation 
Committee, Audit Committee, and  
Information Technology Oversight Committee 
is independent and meets the applicable 
independence requirements of the New York 
Stock Exchange (including the additional 
requirements for the Audit Committee  
and Compensation Committee members)  
and the Board’s more stringent standards  
for determining director independence.
In 2020, the Board received and discussed 
updates on our strategy and performance, 
which included COVID-19 economic impacts, 
health and safety measures, and our role  
in supporting the distribution of personal 
protective equipment (PPE) and vaccines.  
The Board also discussed key ESG priorities, 
including climate change risk, cybersecurity, 
safety, and enterprise health and welfare.Global ESG governance
» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx6
Environmental governance
The FedEx Enterprise Sustainability  
Council (FESC) oversees our environmental 
sustainability, including operations, services, 
marketing, and communications. The  
Council, chaired by our CSO, includes senior 
management representatives from the 
operating companies and staff functions  
that intersect with sustainability, such as 
Marketing, Legal, Finance, and Human 
Resources (HR). The Council is responsible  
for setting, implementing, and reviewing  
our sustainability strategy. Additionally, we have several enterprise-wide 
Sustainable Impact Teams (SITs) that help  
us advance our sustainability strategy across 
functional areas, including air operations, 
vehicles, facilities, and sourcing. Each SIT 
shares knowledge and coordinates efforts 
across the company to advance toward our 
environmental goals. The SITs and the senior 
sustainability leaders from the operating 
companies report to our CSO.
For more information on our environmental 
sustainability initiatives, please refer to the 
Environment chapter  of this report.Social governance
Our global social governance encompasses  
a variety of functions and departments 
dedicated to our people. FedEx executive 
officers have individual performance  
objectives that include, but are not limited  
to, the promotion of our commitment to  
DEI and succession planning for management 
positions. HR departments in each FedEx 
operating company manage HR priorities, 
including team member career development, 
engagement, and health and wellness.  
Our Corporate HR department promotes 
consistency of policies across operating 
companies and manages executive 
development and team member benefits.
The FedEx Corporate Diversity Council,  
which includes members from our operating 
companies’ HR, sourcing, citizenship,  
and communications teams, coordinates 
enterprise-wide DEI initiatives. The Council 
meets every other month to develop and 
implement our enterprise inclusion strategy. 
In addition, each FedEx operating company 
sets workplace safety goals and implements 
our Safety Above All philosophy through 
policies and programs relevant to its specific 
operations. Please see more information 
regarding additional safety governance  
and protocols enacted in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic in the following section  
of this report. 
For more information about our programs for 
career development, DEI, and safety, see the 
Social chapter  of this report.
The FedEx Corporate Diversity 
Council meets every other 
month to develop and 
implement our enterprise 
inclusion strategy.
Environmental sustainability governance structure
FedEx
ExpressFedEx
GroundFedEx
FreightFedEx
OﬃceAir
Operations Sourcing Facilities VehiclesSustainability
Impact TeamsEnvironmental and
Sustainability LeadershipChief Sustainability 
Oﬃcer Chair—FESCBoard of Directors
Nominating and Governance CommitteeFedEx Enterprise Sustainability
Council—FESC» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx7
Keeping our team  
members, customers,  
and communities safe
Throughout the pandemic, we have closely 
monitored and followed guidance from the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC), World Health Organization (WHO), and 
other public health organizations. Additionally, 
FedEx is taking measures to adhere to all local 
governmental requirements related to the 
containment of COVID-19. The health and safety 
of our team members is our top priority. To that 
end, we have implemented numerous measures 
to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including:
 » Educating team members about COVID-19 
prevention and providing necessary  
PPE along with guidance around facilities 
cleaning and social distancing
 » Diverting traffic away from hubs and stations 
in severely affected locations to decrease the 
number of people in our facilities
 » Equipping team members to work from 
home where possible and suspending 
non-critical business travel
 » Launching symptom-screening processes, 
including temperature testing, and 
implementing free voluntary COVID-19 
testing for eligible team members and 
vendors in more than 40 U.S. cities and 
various other locations around the globe » Encouraging our team members to take any 
signs of illness seriously and seek medical 
attention as needed, and providing paid leave 
to those diagnosed with COVID-19 and those 
quarantined as a COVID-19 close contact 
 » Ensuring appropriate  
employee contact tracing
 » Encouraging our team  
members to get vaccinated
In addition to providing essential 
transportation of critical shipments around  
the world, FedEx team members are working 
hard to accommodate increased e-commerce 
volumes—rivaling our peak holiday season 
traffic—as stay-at-home orders and shutdowns 
of commercial activities around the world have 
led to unprecedented demand for residential 
delivery services. 
As part of these accommodations, we 
established new safety protocols to protect  
our customers and communities. Safety 
protocols included suspending signature 
requirements for most deliveries, cleaning 
affected areas of our FedEx Office stores  
when a known positive case or a symptomatic 
team member has been in a store, and 
providing social distancing floor graphics for  
all FedEx Office stores and many other FedEx 
facilities and locations.Since January 2020, FedEx has been on  
the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
operating in impacted areas and providing 
connectivity and delivery of critical  
medical supplies to healthcare providers  
and communities around the world.
In these uncertain times, it is critical that we 
protect our customers and keep our team 
members healthy and safe. As one of the  
few companies in the world with the network 
and capabilities to keep essential commerce 
and aid moving during this time, we view it  
as our duty and responsibility to serve our 
communities, support the global supply chain, 
and deliver the medical supplies needed to 
fight the pandemic.In response to the initial reports of COVID-19  
in Wuhan, China, we activated our Corporate 
Strategy for Pandemic Planning and Crisis 
Management Pandemic Response and 
Implementation Plan. This plan builds on years  
of experience responding to epidemics and 
pandemics—beginning in 2009 with our support 
of H1N1 vaccine distribution, and more recently, 
emergency shipments of PPE and medical 
resources to West Africa to combat Ebola.  
As cases spread across Wuhan, we met with  
our virology consultant and activated our 
influenza response program in the Asia Pacific 
region. As the virus spread across the globe,  
we leveraged our unrivaled global network  
to safely deliver critical medical supplies, 
pharmaceuticals, test samples, and vaccines  
as they became available for governments, 
medical systems, and our customers.Our COVID-19 response
» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx8
Transporting test samples 
At the onset of the pandemic in the U.S.,  
FedEx helped the U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services (HHS) and the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) 
establish logistics and transportation support of 
COVID-19 test samples from community-based 
test sites to labs for analysis. Beginning in 
mid-March 2020, FedEx supported more than 
40 community-based test sites by moving test 
specimens using our First Overnight service  
with proprietary FedEx SenseAwareSM tracking 
technology to labs for analysis. 
Expediting delivery of  
PPE to the United States
As global supply chains fluctuated throughout 
2020, FedEx became a key conduit of  
medical supply chains—moving critical PPE, 
pharmaceuticals, and medical supplies around 
the world. From January 2020 to March 2021, 
FedEx Express shipped more than 80 kilotons 
of PPE around the world, including more than 
2.2 billion masks.
In the spring of 2020, FedEx Express 
contracted with HHS to provide air support  
to medical supply companies producing PPE 
and other supplies critical to COVID-19 relief 
efforts for use in the United States. FedEx 
Express aircraft were used to transport critical 
PPE supplies from manufacturers around  
the world. From pick up and break down,  
to document preparation, export/import 
clearance, cross-docking, and storage, the 
FedEx Logistics team used its vast expertise 
to support the movement of critical PPE. As a part of the mission, FedEx worked with 
DuPont to move more than 5 million Tyvek® 
protective suits from Vietnam to the U.S. for 
the U.S. National Stockpile and flew similar 
missions from China to the U.S. through  
other collaborations. Separately, FedEx worked 
with the U.S. Department of Defense and 
Tennessee National Guard to move millions of 
test swabs manufactured in Italy into the U.S.
As the year progressed, FedEx worked with 
customers around the world to keep critical 
healthcare supply chains moving, in some cases 
using charter flights to move essential goods 
where and when they were needed most. 
FedEx flew 132 essential healthcare charter 
flights between March and November 2020. 
The flights, all-inclusive, carried more than  
10 tons of PPE and critical medical supplies 
including masks, face shields, gloves, surgical 
gowns, goggles, ventilators, test kits, swab 
manufacturing machines, and dialysis solutions. 
Hospitals, healthcare clinics, and government 
administrations in more than 17 U.S. states  
and countries including Canada, Spain, the 
United Kingdom, and Germany are among 
those we supported with the transportation  
of PPE during this pandemic. 
FedEx continues to support pandemic-related 
humanitarian relief efforts through longstanding 
relationships with aid organizations. During 
calendar year 2020, we transported more than 
9,600 humanitarian aid shipments globally 
through our work with non-profit partners 
including Direct Relief, International Medical 
Corps, the American Red Cross, Heart to Heart 
International, Feed America, and others. Read 
more about our humanitarian aid efforts through 
our FedEx Cares pillar: Delivering for Good .
» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx9
Delivering  
COVID-19 vaccines 
In December 2020, after months of  
preparation and close planning with our 
healthcare customers and federal, state,  
and local officials, FedEx began shipping 
approved COVID-19 vaccines to all 50 U.S. 
states as well as Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin 
Islands, Washington, D.C., and all 13 Canadian 
provinces and territories. Our mission is to 
move COVID-19 vaccine shipments as safely 
and quickly as possible, and we are prepared  
to ship to more than 220 countries and 
territories for as long as necessary to help 
control the spread of COVID-19.FedEx helps support the vaccine supply  
chain by moving critical vaccine components 
between production, manufacturing, and  
vaccination sites. With the direction of 
governments and public health organizations, 
FedEx ships everything from raw materials that 
make up the vaccines, the vaccines themselves 
and ancillary kits of vaccine-related supplies, to 
the PPE healthcare professionals wear in labs 
and vaccination sites.
We are well-positioned to handle these critical 
vaccine shipments with innovative technologies 
including temperature-control solutions, near 
real-time monitoring and tracking capabilities, 
and a dedicated healthcare team to support 
the express transportation of vaccines and 
bioscience shipments.
About the technology
At FedEx, the information about the package as it moves through our network is as important 
as the package itself. FedEx SenseAware ID , a proprietary Bluetooth low-energy sensor device, 
is affixed to vaccine shipments, helping to ensure these temperature-sensitive deliveries  
move swiftly and safely through the FedEx Express U.S. network with FedEx Priority Overnight 
service. From origin to destination, dedicated FedEx Priority Alert customer support agents are 
using SenseAware monitoring technology to track the location of vaccine shipments in near 
real-time. This technology is complemented by the FedEx Surround  platform, a collaboration 
with Microsoft that leverages artificial intelligence and predictive tools to proactively monitor 
conditions surrounding the packages, allowing customer support agents to intervene if 
weather or traffic delays threaten to impede delivery times.As the most important work in the history of 
our company, this effort builds on decades 
spent developing our life sciences business and 
working closely with our healthcare customers 
to ensure proper conditions are met when 
transporting critical healthcare shipments.
To help reach underserved communities with 
the COVID-19 vaccine, we have committed  
$4 million in cash and in-kind transportation 
support to several non-profits that focus on 
helping underserved communities in the U.S. 
and around the world. These include Direct 
Relief, International Medical Corps, and Heart 
to Heart International.
Additional information on our COVID-19 
response is included throughout this report.
80+
kilotons of PPE shipped since January 2020, including 
more than 2.2 billion masks, millions of test swabs, face 
shields, gloves, surgical gowns, goggles, ventilators, test 
kits, swab manufacturing machines, and dialysis solutions.10,000+
humanitarian aid shipments  
globally since January 2020.
25+
countries connected by 
FedEx to enable the global 
vaccine supply chain.
$4,000,000
cash and in-kind transportation support to 
non-profits to reach underserved communities.50
U.S. states receiving 
vaccines delivered  
by FedEx.
» Introduction
Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendixEnvironment
At FedEx, we understand our business has an 
impact on the environment, and we remain 
steadfast in our commitment to minimize these 
impacts. Our Practical Sustainability philosophy 
and the results of our 2019 materiality 
assessment  guide our environmental strategy. 
Practical Sustainability emphasizes strategic 
and transformational stewardship that helps 
deliver successful long-term performance, 
transparency in sharing progress, product  
and operational innovation, and leadership in 
advocating for next-generation solutions. This 
philosophy helps us identify and implement the 
right initiatives to address our material impacts, 
improve efficiency, reduce costs, and protect 
against future risks. Practical Sustainability 
returns value to the organization while driving 
our Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize approach.
REDUCE:  Reduce or eliminate impacts 
from activities or operations
REPLACE:  Use the right solutions  
in the right applications
REVOLUTIONIZE:  Discover  
and utilize the technologies and  
solutions of tomorrow, todayOur Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize approach 
guides our environmental strategy across three 
key areas of our environmental footprint: 
 » Aviation  
Fleet  » Vehicle  
Fleet  » Facilities  
and Materials
Throughout FedEx, team members are 
encouraged to implement our sustainability 
strategy and achieve our goals. We equip team 
members, who play a key role in our success, 
with a variety of internal programs to advance 
our progress in reducing fuel emissions, energy 
use, and waste in the workplace.
In March 2021, we announced our goal to 
achieve carbon neutrality for our global 
operations by 2040. We also invest strategically 
with global NGOs to move people and goods 
more sustainably, leveraging team-member 
expertise to collaborate and drive 
improvements to urban mobility and clean 
technology availability. For example, with Rocky 
Mountain Institute’s Third Derivative climate 
innovation accelerator, our team members are 
supporting clean technology start-ups in the 
transportation, packaging, and energy sectors 
as they scale the business or product for 
widespread market adoption. Read more about 
our FedEx Cares pillar: Sustainable Logistics .Our approach—reduce, 
replace, revolutionize
2021 ESG Report FedEx10
Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx11
Climate
FedEx recognizes that climate change implications, such as severe weather events, GHG emissions 
regulations, and increased public awareness of the impacts of climate change, pose strategic risks for 
our company and our stakeholders. At the same time, some of these risks also present opportunities  
for us as we strive to achieve our goal of carbon neutral operations by 2040. Our approach to managing 
these impacts aligns with the recommendations from the TCFD. 
Commitment to carbon capture and 
storage in international aviation
We recognize the necessity in exploring many paths as we work to achieve 
our 2040 carbon neutrality goal, including innovations in carbon capture  
and storage. To support carbon sequestration developments, we have 
committed $100 million to establish the Yale Center for Natural Carbon 
Capture. The interdisciplinary Center will focus on developing solutions to 
sequester CO2 from our atmosphere to help improve the health of our planet. 
The Center will help identify methods that can be used to scale sequestration 
at the rate needed to offset the impact of airline emissions. It is our hope  
that these short-term, medium-term, and ongoing strategies for reducing  
net GHG emissions will transform the entire industry by deploying ecosystem 
management, geological sequestration, and technologies that  
use nature as a model.In addition to our commitments to work to 
reduce our environmental footprint, we 
continue to identify and evaluate both physical 
and transition climate-related risks through our 
enterprise risk management processes. See  
our 2020 CDP Climate Change questionnaire  
response  for more information about our 
climate-related risk management strategy.  
For more information about our enterprise  
risk management processes, please see the 
Governance chapter  of this report.
Carbon neutral goal
Since we set our first aircraft carbon  
intensity reduction and vehicle fuel efficiency 
improvement targets in 2009, we have made 
significant strides in lowering our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions footprint through our 
Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize approach. 
Building on this longstanding commitment  
to sustainability, in early 2021 we set a goal  
to achieve carbon neutrality for our global 
operations by 2040. 
On our path to carbon neutrality, we are 
committing more than $2 billion over the next 
several years to support initiatives designed  
to make FedEx operations more sustainable 
across our aviation and vehicle fleets and at  
our facilities. For instance, across our aviation 
fleet, we will continue to invest in our Fuel 
Sense initiatives, modernize our aircraft, and 
utilize alternative fuels to reduce emissions. 
Our goal is to transition the entire FedEx  
parcel pickup and delivery (PUD) fleet to zero 
emission vehicles by 2040. We will use a 
phased approach to replace existing vehicles. For example, by 2025, 50% of FedEx Express 
global PUD vehicle purchases will be electric, 
rising to 100% of all purchases by 2030, 
subject to availability. 
In addition to low and zero emissions  
upgrades across our operations, we  
will continue to innovate toward new  
climate-friendly solutions and to invest in 
long-term transformational solutions for  
FedEx and the entire industry. We have 
pledged $100 million to help establish  
the Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture  
and its research into methods of carbon 
sequestration at scale, with an initial focus  
to help offset GHG emissions equivalent to 
current airline emissions.Roadmap of goals to carbon neutrality
2020
2025
2030
2040Carbon neutrality
Our goal is to achieve  
carbon neutral operations 
globally by 2040.Seek LEED certification 
of all new U.S. FedEx 
Express buildings
Expand on-site energy 
generation and procure 
renewable energydecrease in  
aviation carbon 
emissions intensity30%
global FedEx Express pickup  
and delivery vehicle purchases  
are zero emission electric vehicles improvement in fuel efficiency  
of FedEx Express vehicles50% 
of jet fuel from 
alternative fuels
electric FedEx parcel pickup 
and delivery vehicle fleetglobal FedEx Express 
pickup and delivery 
vehicle purchases 
are zero emission 
electric vehicles1 00% 
Shaded boxes 
indicate new goals50% 30%
1 00% Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx12
Aviation fleet
As we optimize our flight operations through our 
Fuel Sense program, we continue to modernize 
our fleet with more efficient aircraft and 
technologies and revolutionize our operations 
through exploration of alternative fuels and 
industry-leading collaborations—such as the 
testing of emissions-reduction technologies  
on a specially equipped FedEx-owned  
Boeing 777F aircraft through the Boeing  
ecoDemonstrator program .
In 2008, we announced an ambitious goal to 
reduce aircraft emissions intensity by 20% from 
a 2005 baseline by 2020, and we revised this 
target upwards to a 30% reduction in 2011. 
While we made significant progress toward  
this goal over the last decade, a global increase 
in volume—exacerbated by the COVID-19 
pandemic—caused some older aircraft, which 
were planned for retirement, to remain in 
service longer than planned and has led us  
to fall short of our target to date. 
In addition to delays in the planned retirement 
of older aircraft, we have also experienced 
delays in our access to sustainable aviation fuel 
and have had to put on hold several new Fuel 
Sense projects to help our team members 
remain focused on safety during the pandemic. 
Despite these challenges, we have still reduced 
our aircraft emissions intensity by 27% since 
2005. Our aircraft modernization and FedEx 
Fuel Sense programs saved more than 255 
million gallons of fuel and have avoided more 
than 2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO2e) emissions in FY20 alone.REDUCE:  
FedEx Fuel Sense
FedEx Fuel Sense is our comprehensive aviation 
fuel conservation program at FedEx Express, 
representing a suite of initiatives designed  
to reduce fuel consumption in our aircraft 
operations. The cross-functional Operational 
Efficiency Steering Committee, with 
representatives from across FedEx Air 
Operations, manages the Fuel Sense program. 
Since it began in 2006, Fuel Sense has  
applied the insights and ideas of aviation  
team members and experts to create a 
transformative culture of over 70 fuel-saving 
projects that helped save more than 883 
million gallons of jet fuel through FY20. 
In FY20, we focused on sustaining our existing 
Fuel Sense performance to help our team 
members focus on critical COVID-19 safety 
protocols. Due to the vigilance and leadership 
of our team members, we still saw an 
improvement in our efficiency, saving more 
than 118 million gallons of jet fuel and avoiding 
more than 1 million metric tons of CO2e.REPLACE:  
Aircraft modernization
The modernization of our aircraft fleet lowers 
costs through enhanced reliability, operational 
flexibility, reduced maintenance expenses,  
and improved fuel efficiency. Through our 
ongoing modernization program, FedEx 
maintains one of the largest, fastest, and  
most innovative all-cargo aircraft fleets in the 
world. Throughout FY20, we took delivery  
of 18 new aircraft (13 Boeing 767Fs and five 
Boeing 777Fs) and retired eight MD-10-10s. 
Along with the incredible work of our Air 
Operations teams—including maintaining  
12 aircraft in service that were slated for 
storage or retirement during the year—this 
fleet was critical to successfully handling 
growing volume demand and medical supply 
needs during the pandemic.
Although events of last year delayed our  
fleet modernization timeline, we have  
pending orders for 13 Boeing 777F aircraft  
and 35 Boeing 767F aircraft, scheduled to 
arrive between 2021 and 2024. While some 
delivery delays may occur with these new 
aircraft due to COVID-19, we remain on track 
to retire our entire MD-10 fleet by fiscal 
year-end 2023. 
In late 2020, we received delivery of the first  
of 30 ATR 72-600F aircraft to cover shorter, 
feeder routes. This addition coincides with the 
retirement of two ATR-42 aircraft. We also have 
agreements to purchase 50 Cessna SkyCourier 
408 heavy-duty cargo aircraft, which enable 
fewer planes per feeder route and further 
enhance our fuel efficiency, reliability, and 
operating costs. REVOLUTIONIZE:  
Sustainable aviation fuels
As the impacts of climate change continue  
to increase, we understand that we must  
do more to reduce our emissions than is 
possible through our Fuel Sense and fleet 
modernization programs. Our investments  
in alternative fuel sources underscore our 
commitment to reduce our emissions further. 
As part of our climate commitments, we are 
collaborating with our industry, government 
agencies, academia, and alternative fuel 
suppliers to seek development of viable, 
cost-effective alternative fuels that reduce  
our own emissions and support the uptake of 
alternative fuels throughout the aviation industry. 
One such effort is the construction of a biofuel 
refinery by Red Rock Biofuels, which will supply 
low-carbon renewable jet fuel to FedEx Express 
by converting wood waste from the logging 
industry into fuel. The biofuel refinery faced 
delays during the COVID-19 pandemic, but 
intends to start production in the first half of 
2022. Based in Lakeview, Oregon, Red Rock will 
transport the sustainable aviation fuel through 
existing infrastructure to support our Bay Area, 
California, operations.
For more detail on our aviation fleet initiatives, 
see our sustainability webpage . 27%
reduction in aircraft emissions 
intensity since 2005.Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx13
Vehicle fleet
FedEx Corporation relies on a network  
of more than 200,000 motorized vehicles  
across the world. We reduce emissions  
from traditional internal combustion  
engines used in these vehicles through 
electrification, alternative fuels, advanced 
technologies, and state-of-the-art operations. 
Our vehicle efficiency efforts create value  
for our stakeholders by reducing fuel and 
maintenance costs, while contributing to 
societal efforts. 
FedEx Express has a goal to increase vehicle 
fuel efficiency by 50% from a 2005 baseline  
by 2025. Through FY20, FedEx Express  
has improved fuel efficiency by 44.5%  
from our 2005 baseline. Our Reduce, Replace, 
Revolutionize sustainability approach has 
enabled substantial progress towards this  
goal, and we are establishing bolder goals  
and innovative approaches to optimize  
our business. As a key component of our carbon neutrality 
goal, we aim to transition the entire FedEx 
parcel PUD fleet to zero emission vehicles by 
2040. To achieve that transition, by 2025, 50% 
of FedEx Express global PUD vehicle purchases 
will be electric, increasing to 100% by 2030.
REDUCE: Advanced technology 
and operational efficiency 
We leverage advanced technology for our 
vehicles to optimize the efficiency of every 
vehicle in our fleet. As an example of our  
digital innovation principle, FedEx Express is 
installing updated GPS tracking systems that 
provide drivers with turn-by-turn routes. The 
system allows drivers to put their undivided 
attention on safe driving and provides them 
with the most efficient route, helping to save 
time, optimize driving distance, and reduce 
emissions. In addition, FedEx Ground provides 
independent service providers with dynamic 
route optimization technology—near-real-time 
data to help them plan efficient delivery routes 
and make decisions about vehicle mix and 
workforce to accommodate shipment volume. We are optimizing the way packages  
move through our networks by operating 
collaboratively across our independent 
operating companies. Through Last Mile 
Optimization, the delivery of select  
day-definite FedEx Express residential and 
rural packages by FedEx Ground allows us  
to flex our network to reduce costs, increase 
delivery density, and reduce the emissions 
footprint of packages. As of September 2020, 
we had successfully launched the Last Mile 
Optimization program in 57 origin markets, 
and we are already realizing increased 
efficiencies. Additionally, to improve network 
efficiency, FedEx Freight provided FedEx 
Ground with 51 million miles of road and 
intermodal rail support through early 2021. 
Intermodal rail transport can be 70% more 
efficient than road transport for long-haul 
shipping. In 2020, FedEx Freight also began 
delivering large and irregularly shaped 
packages for FedEx Ground. Our collaborative 
approach helps us improve operational 
efficiency, reduce emissions, and ensure we 
have the right package, in the right network,  
at the right cost to serve our customers.REPLACE AND 
REVOLUTIONIZE:  
Electric and alternative  
fuel vehicles
We strive to employ the most advanced vehicle 
technologies to efficiently and safely move 
packages across our networks. By leveraging 
advancements in the zero emission vehicle 
market, we have created a long-term strategy 
to transition our pickup, delivery, and support 
vehicle fleets to zero emission technologies. 
While the impacts of COVID-19 slowed  
our procurement of electric vehicles and 
construction of charging infrastructure in FY20, 
FedEx Express is continuing its acquisition of 
zero emission vehicles with our agreement to 
purchase 500 electric vehicles from General 
Motors’ BrightDrop, and we remain committed 
to our goal for a zero emission vehicle future 
for our parcel PUD fleet.
Recently, we conducted several successful 
initiatives involving electric vehicles in our 
operations. In California, we built out an  
electric vehicle infrastructure of 515 chargers 
supporting over 1,000 electric vehicles. In 
Europe, we have demonstrated the value 
proposition of electric vehicles and we are  
now prioritizing key cities and routes for 
electrification. Across our operating companies, 
we continue to electrify our forklift, airport 
ground service equipment, and other non-road 
vehicles as existing equipment reaches the end 
of its usable life. In addition, we are moving to 
scale these programs in support of our goal  
to be carbon neutral by 2040. By advancing 
electrification, we can reduce fuel and 
maintenance costs and contribute to global 
efforts to mitigate climate change.
Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx14
FedEx Ground is also working with its 
independent service providers to promote  
the use of electric and alternative fuel vehicles. 
In FY20, 86% of all diesel we sold to service 
providers consisted of various biodiesel blends, 
avoiding more than 120,000 metric tons of 
CO2e emissions through a network of fuel 
islands at more than 80 locations. We are also 
piloting the necessary infrastructure at our 
facilities to provide FedEx Ground independent 
service providers with access to a third-party 
charging solution. 
Zero emission vehicle technology for long-haul 
Class 8 trucks lags smaller commercial vehicle 
solutions. We are working with manufacturers 
to test and pilot projects, and we are investing 
in research and development that focuses  
on truck capacity, range, and cost efficiency 
compared to diesel engines. In the interim,  
we strive to implement the optimal technology 
and drive operational efficiency across our 
long-haul fleet. 
As we increase our electric vehicle fleet,  
we must expand the vehicle-charging 
infrastructure at our facilities to ensure we  
can meet a growing need for electricity. We  
are working with power utilities, state and  
local governments, and regulatory agencies  
on broader low-carbon infrastructure solutions. 
We are also evaluating opportunities to expand 
on-site generation and procurement of 
renewable energy. To learn more about our 
facility renewable energy efforts, please see 
the next section  of this report.
For more information on our vehicle fleet 
initiatives, see our sustainability webpage.Last-mile innovations
Many urban centers are experiencing increased congestion and implementing 
new regulations that limit the number of vehicles on the roads or establish low 
emission zones. We are developing cutting-edge, last-mile delivery solutions  
that work within these urban infrastructure constraints. Roxo™ ,  the FedEx 
SameDay Bot, holds promise to help retailers make same-day deliveries to 
businesses and residences using autonomous technology. Working with Wing 
Aviation, FedEx Express launched a pilot program exploring the use of drones  
to enhance last-mile service and more efficient delivery to customers in rural  
and semi-rural areas. Through our relationship with General Motors’ BrightDrop, 
FedEx Express conducted a pilot of the BrightDrop EP1 pallet. Our couriers  
were able to handle 25% more packages per day while using the EP1 electric 
pallets. We will begin piloting the EP1 pallet in urban centers during 2021.  
These innovative technologies offer FedEx the opportunity to access new  
markets and improve delivery efficiency.
In Europe, our City Logistics pilot program seeks to identify the best mobility 
solutions for different types of urban centers found across the region. We are 
testing a variety of solutions to create a toolbox that can be tailored to meet  
each city’s circumstances and needs. Our urban solutions include electric  
vehicles, autonomous devices, bicycles, and potentially public transit systems.  
Our approach allows us to demonstrate the business case of our mobility 
solutions and our ability to effectively deploy these solutions. As we move  
to deploy these solutions further, we are aligning logistics with mobility and 
infrastructure to meet each city’s needs without compromising on volumes  
or delivery efficiency. We want to deliver packages as safely, sustainably, and 
efficiently as possible using an intelligent logistics system. 
To further support the influx of e-commerce volume, we continue to invest in our 
extensive retail convenience network, which includes more than 60,000 locations. 
This includes more than 27,000 staffed retail locations, such as FedEx Office and 
well-known retailers. These locations were strategically chosen to fit seamlessly 
into busy “to do” list routes. More than 92% of the U.S. population lives within five 
miles of a FedEx-staffed FedEx location.
Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx15
Facilities  
and materials
The efficient operation of our more than 5,000 
air and ground hubs, local stations, freight 
service centers, and retail locations is critical to 
achieving our business and sustainability goals. 
Minimizing packaging and maximizing recycling 
volume conserves resources, reduces waste, and 
improves transportation emissions efficiency. 
Our waste management strategies help ensure 
we recycle more of the waste produced in our 
facilities and across our value chain.Facilities 
FedEx operates a number of facilities certified to 
external standards. As of FY20, FedEx facilities in 
28 countries have achieved the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 
environmental management system standard. 
Regionally, FedEx Express Middle East, Indian 
Subcontinent and Africa (MEISA) facilities will 
receive ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 certifications 
across eight countries in late 2021, and will 
extend to a total of 14 countries over the  
next year. Where appropriate, we adopt the 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) standard in the U.S. and the 
Building Research Establishment Environmental 
Assessment Method (BREEAM) in Europe to 
guide efficient facility design and construction  
of state-of-the-art facilities. FedEx Express has 
committed to seek LEED or BREEAM certification 
on all new U.S. and European FedEx Express 
buildings where appropriate. FedEx Express  
has 24 LEED-certified facilities including two 
facilities outside of the U.S. and, in total, FedEx 
has 32 LEED-certified facilities across all of our 
operating companies.Effective environmental management requires 
participation and engagement from each 
facility’s team members. The FedEx Ground 
EarthSmart® Champion program engages 
team members in their facility’s sustainability 
initiatives. We provide our EarthSmart 
Champions with reports and resources to 
communicate facility sustainability performance, 
including energy consumption, waste, and  
other metrics. EarthSmart Champions submit  
a scorecard for review, and high-performing 
facilities receive an internal certification 
recognizing their performance. All FedEx  
Freight sites participate in the internal GREEN 
Site certification program, which recognizes  
the actions of facilities to reduce environmental 
impacts. Every FedEx Freight site also has at 
least one volunteer in the Local Environmental 
Action Facilitator (LEAF) program and each 
district has a LEAF representative. These 
sustainability leaders collaborate across  
our network and work with facility leads  
to implement sustainability initiatives.REDUCE AND REPLACE:   
Energy management
Energy management systems provide 
centralized control of lighting and heating, 
ventilation, and air-conditioning equipment. 
We use data from these systems to identify 
suboptimal performance and opportunities for 
energy savings. FedEx Office has installed an 
energy management system in 1,579 stores. 
We have improved the energy efficiency of  
our facilities by upgrading interior and exterior 
lighting and installing motion sensors and light 
control systems. In FY20, we completed 49 
upgrade projects across 26 facilities. In total, 
our lighting retrofits have saved more than  
238 million kilowatt-hours of electricity and  
led to reduced GHG emissions, environmental 
impacts, and operating costs. 
In 2020, FedEx Freight brought online eight new 
facilities and two remodels, which included new 
LED lighting and other sustainable materials, 
including tubular skylights for natural daylighting 
in offices, recycled denim insulation, and water 
fountains with water-bottle filling stations.
FedEx Express has committed 
to seek LEED or BREEAM 
certification on all new U.S.  
and European FedEx Express 
buildings where appropriate.Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx16
REVOLUTIONIZE:   
Renewable energy and  
alternative infrastructure
As part of our goal to become carbon neutral 
by 2040, we are advancing on-site renewable 
energy generation and procuring renewable 
energy to help us to continue reducing our 
GHG footprint. Currently, FedEx Ground has  
16 on- and off-site solar installations, and  
our facility in Spokane, Washington, receives 
nearly 100% of its electrical needs from 
renewable energy sources. Across our 
operating companies, 26 FedEx locations 
generate on-site renewable energy, and we  
are evaluating additional opportunities to 
purchase off-site renewable energy.
FedEx Ground is also working toward 
deploying microgrids at facilities to  
continue supporting business resiliency  
and emergency preparedness. In FY20,  
two facilities were powered by fuel cells  
and solar energy, providing a foundation  
for how on-site solar, fuel cell, combined  
heat and power, and energy storage 
technologies can be used together  
to replace traditional diesel generators. 
For more information on our sustainable facilities 
initiatives, see our sustainability webpage.Sustainable materials, 
recycling, and the  
circular economy
We work to optimize packaging, reduce 
packaging waste, and maximize recycling  
to make the best use of our resources,  
reduce emissions, and ship packages more 
efficiently. Our packaging engineers work  
with our customers to meet their design and 
sustainability needs, using a sustainability 
checklist to advise customers on key topics, 
such as curbside recycling limitations, 
packaging right sizing, and durability. The 
FedEx Sourcing team evaluates each critical 
packaging supplier annually on environmental 
management practices and sustainability 
program improvement. To learn more about 
how we are working with suppliers to support 
environmental performance, please refer to  
the Our supply chain section  of this report. 
FedEx Office carefully manages the  
responsible sourcing, use, and recycling of 
paper used for commercial copy and print 
services. The long-standing FedEx Office 
forest-based paper product procurement 
policy includes vendor requirements for 
responsible forest-management practices.  
In FY20, 99.8% of all paper purchased by 
FedEx Office was third-party certified. 
Additionally, we are supplementing our 
purchases of forest-based products with 
“tree-free” products and alternative fiber 
products to reduce our environmental footprint.Our operating companies are optimizing their 
recycling programs through close collaboration 
with their waste management vendors. In 
FY20, FedEx Ground consolidated its waste 
and recycling to just three vendors, helping us 
take advantage of opportunities to right size 
our approach, identify savings, and optimize 
haul frequency. We are also working with our 
customers to reduce packaging materials to 
decrease their waste management costs. 
FedEx Express Europe is developing  
a sustainability strategy that includes 
advancing circular economy principles.  
This strategy establishes a circular design 
approach and end-of-life targets for  
high-value products, including IT hardware, 
handhelds, sorting machines, uniforms,  
and other operational products. 
More information about our sustainable 
materials initiatives can be found on our 
sustainability webpage.
1 00%
recyclable1 and composed 
of 45% recycled content.
1 Where recycling facilities exist.FedEx-branded  
cardboard packaging is21,041,85623,488,85924,512,386
2018 2019 2020Solar electricity  
generated on-site (kWh)
12,50413,44713,225
2018 2019 2020Emissions avoided by solar 
sites (metric tons CO2e)Introduction
» Environment
Social
Governance
Data appendix         We connect people and possibilities around the w
orld.PEOPLE-
SERVICE-
PROFITPURPLE
PROMISE  
QUALITY DRIVEN
MANAGEMENTSafety Above AllOur culture
At FedEx, our people are our greatest asset 
and at the heart of our success. Across the 
globe, our more than 570,000 team members  
are united by our passion to deliver on the 
FedEx Purple Promise—to make every FedEx 
experience outstanding. This passion begins 
with our People-Service-Profit (PSP) corporate 
philosophy and is driven by our Quality Driven 
Management (QDM) system. PSP is based  
on the belief that creating a positive working 
environment enables our team members to 
provide better service quality to customers. 
QDM then provides the shared framework  
and language for improving the service  
quality. This relentless focus on people and 
quality leads to increased satisfaction, 
generating profitability across the business.  
In turn, this profitability allows us to continue 
rewarding our people, ensuring the long-term 
success of our business. Driven by a shared 
commitment to excellence, the PSP philosophy 
drives our corporate culture and helps each  
of our team members earn the trust and loyalty 
of our customers.Nurturing a culture centered on PSP ,  
the Purple Promise, and QDM requires 
continuous investment in our workforce.  
This includes providing an atmosphere where 
our team members feel safe, valued, and 
included—where best-in-class benefits help 
team members maintain their health and 
well-being—and where team members have 
the development opportunities to realize their 
full potential. Each of our operating companies 
shares this longstanding commitment  
to maintaining a high-performing culture. Social
2021 ESG Report FedEx17
Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx18
FedEx also promotes and maintains a  
robust volunteer portal accessible through  
the FedEx Cares website . It enables team 
members to create and register for volunteer 
initiatives, including skill-based volunteering 
and virtual volunteering.
Across our operating companies, our culture 
continues to evolve as we prepare for the 
future. In FY20, we created a new culture 
quality action team to identify the common 
values, language, tools, and behaviors that 
allow us to compete collectively, operate 
collaboratively, and innovate digitally. The  
team, composed of representatives from 
across the enterprise, is working to ensure  
our culture remains singularly focused on 
executing toward our corporate strategy.
We recognize the impact that COVID-19 has 
had on our people, from increased physical 
health risks, to COVID fatigue and mental 
health strain. To help our team members 
through this challenging time, we updated 
safety protocols and provided additional 
resources and support. We appreciate each of 
our team members for stepping up to the task, 
continuing to deliver the Purple Promise, and 
supporting our customers by keeping essential 
commerce and aid moving during this difficult 
time. For more information, please see the 
COVID-19 response  section of this report.Health  
and safety
Safety Above All is our first and foremost  
value in every aspect of our business. Across 
the enterprise, we are committed to making 
our workplaces and communities safer for our 
team members, customers, and the public.  
Our Safety Above All philosophy is embedded 
in our day-to-day work through rigorous 
policies, continual education and engagement, 
and investments in technology designed to 
prevent accidents.
We invest in the long-term health and well-being 
of our team members, safeguarding the 
airworthiness of our aircraft fleet and the safety 
of our vehicles and facilities. We stay at the 
forefront of workplace safety through innovative 
technologies, such as implementing an incident 
management software app to issue alerts and 
coordinate actions in inclement weather and 
other potentially hazardous situations.
Our team members’ active involvement and 
engagement in health and safety is essential  
to preventing accidents and injuries as we 
optimize our service. Through the bi-annual 
FedEx Express Aviation Safety Culture Survey, 
we obtain direct feedback from our team 
members on opportunities to continuously 
improve our safety performance. Based on  
the last survey, we launched an ongoing  
series of “Safety Share” sessions that enable 
management to share information on 
initiatives, best practices, and programs  
that prevent accidents and strengthen  
the safety culture in our airline operations.  We also expanded our air safety awards 
programs to all global regions, heavily 
promoting them among management to 
increase recognition of team members who 
make significant contributions to air safety.  
The Aviation Safety Culture Survey has enabled 
creation of a program of actions based on team 
member input, and we are building upon that 
foundation by expanding the U.S.-based survey 
to all FedEx Express global regions in 2021.
In 2020, FedEx Express introduced Stay Sharp, 
an interactive program to capture any unsafe 
behaviors and recognize employees for 
working safely. We want to make sure we  
have adaptability with Stay Sharp, so we do  
not compromise safety to meet a deadline. 
Employees are encouraged to recognize other 
peer team members in their workgroup who 
are seen staying sharp.
To understand and improve our safety 
performance, we evaluate our operational 
performance across a variety of  
indicators—including lost-time-injury rate 
(L TIR)—on a daily basis. In FY20, our L TIR  
was 3.25, a decrease of 6.4% compared  
to FY19. In addition to looking at lagging 
indicators of safety performance to understand 
what went wrong, we frequently evaluate  
the effectiveness of new metrics, including 
leading indicators, as we work toward a holistic 
safety-reporting platform to improve our 
safety performance. For more about our  
FY20 and year-over-year safety performance, 
see the Data appendix.Keeping our  
team members 
safe and healthy 
through COVID-19
At FedEx, each of our team members is 
working hard to keep the world moving 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.  
To keep our teams safe, we enacted a  
high-level standard of care across the 
enterprise while allowing for flexibility  
in how each operating company and 
region met those standards.
We continue to learn from the impacts  
of COVID-19. To be better prepared for 
future pandemics or other public health 
crises, we plan to implement those 
learnings into our pandemic response 
process, particularly around pandemic  
fatigue. See our COVID-19 response  
section for more detail on our wider 
COVID-19 response. See the quality of life  
section below for more detail on how we 
continue to support our team members.
Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx19
Safety management systems
FedEx employs safety management systems 
and programs to reduce work-related injuries 
and illnesses. Our operating companies  
are responsible for implementing policies  
and procedures aligned with international 
standards that account for their business and 
the associated health and safety risks. These 
safety management controls, coupled with our 
strong Safety Above All philosophy, helped 
drive our safety pandemic response over the 
course of the last year.
For instance, the FedEx Express Safety 
Management System (FXE-SMS) is designed 
and fully implemented under the guidance  
of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). 
The FXE-SMS provides a standardized set of 
policies, processes, and procedures that limits 
potential for human error to effectively manage 
our aviation operations. These include the 
safety control checks our pilots at FedEx 
Express are vigilant in completing prior to each 
flight, and systems that encourage voluntary 
reporting and discussion of mistakes to 
proactively prevent future safety incidents.
Under the FXE-SMS, all FedEx Express Air 
Operations team members must comply  
with the FedEx Safety Policy. The FedEx SMS 
Accountable Executive Team, which includes 
senior level management, normally meets 
quarterly to review key safety performance 
metrics and provide strategic direction. The 
President and CEO of FedEx Express consults 
with the Safety and Airworthiness Vice 
President and other key safety personnel to 
define and review progress toward safety goals.The FXE-SMS employs safety risk management 
through a structured process of system 
analysis and hazard identification, which 
includes voluntary employee reports and 
operational data collection. These leading and 
lagging indicators help us identify hazards, 
analyze and assess risks, and implement 
appropriate strategies to mitigate or control 
the risk. We also conduct regular external 
audits, self-audits, and other assurance 
programming to continually assess our  
FXE-SMS and improve our safety controls.
The FXE-SMS fosters a positive safety culture 
by developing and providing safety training and 
communications to proactively inform team 
members of safety guidance, tools, and lessons 
learned. The FXE-SMS Program Management 
Office maintains, reviews, and updates safety 
training programs to support a culture of 
continuous learning. Through the FXE-SMS, 
FedEx Express presented a variety of awards to 
both employees and contractors—to promote 
safety principles and recognize safe acts.
This year, FedEx Express International  
debuted a new incident management  
system to support root cause analysis. The 
system, first implemented in our European 
operations, enables better action planning  
and implementation of mechanisms to help 
prevent future incidents. In 2021, we plan  
to expand this new system to our MEISA 
operations. The system complements our 
rigorous risk identification system and 
communication campaign, The Right  
Way, which provides team members with 
training on how to identify mistakes on the  
job before they turn into safety concerns.At FedEx Ground, our focus on prevention 
through design enables and encourages  
team members to recommend regular safety 
improvements at our facilities and yards.  
This focus leads to continual engagement  
with, and improvements to, our facilities’  
safety culture. The FedEx Ground Stop Work 
Authority program empowers team members 
to stop activities that could create an unsafe 
environment, and we continue to refine team 
member engagement programs that focus  
on safe behaviors. 
Vehicle and driver safety
Across our enterprise, driving is a core 
responsibility for many of our team members. 
In addition to providing best-in-class training 
and procedures, we equip our vehicles with 
innovative safety technologies that reduce the 
potential for incidents and protect the safety  
of our people and the communities with whom 
we share the road. Our commitment to safety  
makes our vehicles safer and more ergonomically 
comfortable while helping to make the roads 
safer for other drivers and pedestrians.As our vehicle fleet grows, we replace older 
vehicles and strive to procure new vehicles that 
improve both our safety performance and fuel 
efficiency. For instance, the rollout of our electric 
fleet not only supports our climate ambitions, 
but also includes innovative road safety 
technologies, such as audible turn-by-turn 
directions to prevent drivers from looking at a 
screen for navigation assistance, auto-docking 
technology, GPS tracking to improve route 
safety, and video event data recorder (VEDR) 
technology. Electrification of our fleet also 
lowers harmful air emissions, supporting 
improvement of overall team member and 
community health.
We continue to roll out VEDR technology 
across our operating companies to enhance 
safety for drivers and others on the road.  
VEDR technology enables team members and 
managers to review near misses or incidents 
and discuss what went well and what could  
be improved. We are also exploring emerging 
technologies, including autonomous driving 
technologies, to further enhance the safety of 
our team members and communities. We rely 
on both new technology and improving driver 
practices to improve our safety performance.
Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx20
Human 
resource 
management
At FedEx, our success depends on the talent, 
dedication, and well-being of our people. As  
we grow, we strive to recruit, retain, develop, 
and provide advancement opportunities for 
our team members. We continually work to 
make FedEx a diverse, inclusive, equitable, and 
growth-focused workplace where all team 
members have the opportunity to flourish.
Our team members are playing a crucial role 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic and its 
global response, delivering critical relief to our 
customers and communities around the world. 
We provide quality benefits and resources to 
support team member mental and physical 
well-being during this difficult time. 
Talent acquisition  
and engagement
Various stay-at-home orders and the 
movement of PPE and medical supplies  
across the globe led to unprecedented 
demand for shipment and logistics services  
in FY20. To support this volume and keep 
commerce flowing, we grew our global 
workforce by 12% this year. We continually 
evolve our talent attraction programming to 
support our workforce now and into the future.  We use a variety of creative strategies to 
attract top talent, including engaging people 
through social media platforms, using data 
analytics to support our recruitment and 
retention strategies, conducting structured 
internship programs, and reaching out to 
candidates from non-traditional pathways.
We also connect our talent attraction approach 
with our philanthropic initiative efforts where 
possible. This includes initiatives to provide 
education, job training, and employment 
resources to people in underrepresented 
communities. Read more about our diverse 
recruitment initiatives in the Diversity, equity, 
and inclusion  section.
Communicating  
operational changes
We notify all impacted team members of operational changes as soon  
as practical as part of our commitment to comply with all required notice 
periods set forth in the U.S. Department of Labor Worker Adjustment and 
Retraining Notification Act (WARN) and local, state, and country-specific  
laws, due to requirements and mandatory (minimum) notice periods in  
several European countries. FedEx Express International only implements 
operational changes after engagement with relevant works councils  
and employee representatives.
In January 2021, FedEx Express announced a workforce reduction plan  
in Europe as it nears the completion of the network integration of TNT.  
These proposals are part of a wider, multi-year growth strategy that  
enables the FedEx Express European business to confidently build on  
the momentum created in recent years. For more information please  
read the official press release .
303,906
full- and part-time team 
members hired globally in FY20.
Every day, we work hard to earn and maintain 
the loyalty of our team members by creating  
a workplace culture that supports their 
aspirations and provides benefits and 
opportunities to support their quality of life 
and development. Globally, FedEx hired 
303,906 full- and part-time team members in 
FY20. Turnover for part-time team members, 
primarily package handlers, was 132%, while 
full-time team member turnover was 17%  
in this period. For details about employee 
recruitment and retention, including turnover by 
gender year-over-year, see the Data appendix.Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx21
We value feedback from our team members, 
looking to understand their concerns and 
expectations and, where possible, acting on 
them. We provide several avenues to listen to 
and engage with our team, including annual 
surveys, employee networks, and direct 
feedback. These engagements strengthen 
relationships, improve work experiences,  
and build a more productive workplace for 
everyone. FedEx conducts annual engagement 
surveys to measure employee satisfaction on 
Culture, Engagement, and Diversity and we 
share the results with senior leaders to inform 
leadership development plans and additional 
changes as needed. As part of our culture  
work stream outlined in the introduction to  
this chapter, we continue to evaluate more  
effective and efficient ways to hear from all  
our employees and implement their feedback.
FedEx believes in compensating and treating 
our employees in a fair manner and recognizes 
and respects the right of employees to unionize. 
The pilots of FedEx Express are represented  
by the Air Line Pilots Association, International 
(ALPA) and are employed under a collective 
bargaining agreement that took effect in  
2015. The collective bargaining agreement is 
scheduled to become amendable in November 
2021. In addition to our pilots at FedEx Express, 
some FedEx Express employees outside the U.S. 
are unionized. For all of our employees under  
a collective bargaining agreement, we provide 
them a copy of their collective bargaining 
agreement along with access to all other  
FedEx work rules, and we regularly meet with 
union representatives to discuss, and where 
appropriate to bargain, changes to work rules.Quality of life 
We provide our team members with 
competitive healthcare, wellness, retirement, 
and other benefits to support their quality of 
life and enable them to thrive in the workplace.
All eligible full-time and part-time team 
members and their eligible dependents receive 
competitive health benefits. In the U.S., we 
cover approximately 70% of total eligible 
health and disability costs for part- and 
full-time employees at the plan level for our 
approximately 219,000 participating team 
members, as of January 2021. This suite  
of health benefits includes flexible options  
in medical, behavioral, dental, vision, and 
pharmacy coverage with enhanced member 
support services. 
In 2020, we promoted our free telemedicine 
benefits, which were critical in enabling team 
members to connect remotely with medical 
professionals for personalized healthcare 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. From FY19  
to FY20, use of our telemedicine benefits 
increased 265.3%. In addition to telemedicine 
benefits, we make available to team members 
digital tools that help them see account 
balances, find in-network care, understand 
their benefits, and participate in programs to 
support their health and well-being. This year, 
we also debuted a new healthcare advocate 
program called Choose Well Care Connect to 
help our team members navigate the complex 
healthcare system. Now, if an employee has a 
healthcare need, they can work with a single 
point of contact through talk, chat, or web 
rather than having to go through a call center, 
specific doctor, or insurance appeals process 
with various benefit vendors.The events of this past year took an 
unprecedented toll on the emotional and mental 
welfare of many. To support team members’ 
mental health, we offer 24/7 confidential 
counseling services to employees, eligible 
dependents, and all household members, even  
if they are not participating plan members.  
We frequently communicate with employees on  
how to access these resources to promote their 
use across the enterprise, with an increased  
focus on mental health resources this year.
Additional wellness programs touch on a  
variety of other areas, including exercise and 
weight management, healthy eating, stress 
management classes, and tobacco cessation, 
which reinforce our approach of holistic support 
for our people. FedEx offers a Work-Life Balance 
Program to all U.S. team members where they 
can access specialists and online resources for 
advice and support on life challenges, including 
parenting, childcare, and financial matters. FedEx 
also supports families with paid parental leave 
and financial assistance with adoptions. The 
FedEx Purple Ribbon program provides financial 
assistance to eligible employees and their 
immediate family members who are affected  
by a catastrophe, sudden personal crisis, or 
tragedy. In FY20, FedEx awarded $217,149  
to team members through the program.In addition, we offer competitive retirement 
benefits to eligible U.S. team members. Eligible 
employees hired on or after January 1, 2020, 
and certain existing employees participate in 
an all-401(k)-plan retirement program, which 
will be enhanced effective January 1, 2022,  
to provide a higher company matching 
contribution of up to 8% of compensation.  
We offer pension plans to certain eligible 
employees in addition to a 401(k) plan with  
a match of up to 3.5%. In 2021, pension plan 
participants will be given the choice of staying 
in the pension plan and the 401(k) plan with  
a company matching contribution of up  
to 3.5% of compensation or moving to the 
all-401(k)-plan structure with the enhanced 
match of up to 8% of compensation. We also 
continued to engage employees to increase 
retirement plan participation through eight 
benefits fairs and 60 retirement education 
seminars in FY20.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many of  
our team members moved to remote work 
settings. Through our engagement surveys,  
we found that many expressed a desire to 
continue working from home. We plan to 
re-evaluate how and where team members 
work to provide flexibility, increase 
effectiveness, and optimize our workspaces.
Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx22
Learning and development
As our team members commit to delivering  
the Purple Promise, we remain committed  
to providing all our people with learning and 
development opportunities to advance their 
careers at FedEx. Training and development 
begins with our enterprise-wide content  
for new employees—Core New Employee 
Orientation—which provides a consistent 
onboarding experience across our operating 
companies on topics such as safety, security, 
compliance, sustainability, and DEI. We 
continue to use virtual and augmented reality 
learning tools to provide team members  
with experiential, interactive learning 
opportunities. This year in particular, these 
tools provided team members with the  
ability to learn new skills while following 
COVID-19 health guidelines.The program includes experiential learning, 
coaching, core and elective courses, and 
volunteering-based development opportunities. 
The Global Leadership Corps (GLC) is another 
intensive FedEx enterprise-wide learning 
experience aimed at exposing high performing 
FedEx employees to “next generation” ways  
of doing business: emerging markets, virtual  
and global teams, diverse cultures, working 
outside the traditional office, and increased 
public expectations for sustainable business 
practices. Between February 7 and March 7, 
2020, 16 participants spent four weeks in 
Bangkok, Thailand, serving as consultants  
to four local social enterprise organizations, 
contributing 3,840 volunteer hours through 
pro-bono consultation. Through intensive 
collaboration, these team members utilize  
their diverse experience and skillsets to help 
equip their clients with strategic business  
plans and processes to help them better  
serve their communities.
To give employees greater direction in  
their career development, many operating 
companies have replaced annual performance 
reviews with more frequent coaching and 
feedback. This shift to ongoing coaching and 
feedback provides even greater opportunities 
for employees to drive their performance and 
career development. For instance, at FedEx 
Ground, employees are in charge of setting their 
own goals and collecting feedback with the help 
of their manager through the performance 
management program, Gaining Ground.  
Across the company, managers received 
training through various programs to support  
employees through effective coaching. As we provide team members with learning 
and development programs, it is also essential 
to provide advancement opportunities to 
maintain an engaged workforce. In FY20,  
we created our Enterprise Careers Portal, 
which, at this time, provides team members  
the opportunity to apply for jobs internally 
throughout the company. 
FedEx is committed to supporting team 
members who wish to pursue higher  
education in a variety of ways. Throughout  
our enterprise in FY20, we provided a 
combined $15,284,079 in tuition assistance  
to 9,961 employees to further their education.  
In addition, Learning inspired by FedEx 
(LiFE)—a collaboration between multiple  
FedEx operating companies and The University 
of Memphis—allows many employees the 
opportunity to earn a tuition-free, fully  
online degree. Eligible employees include  
all U.S.-based FedEx Logistics employees,  
all Memphis-based FedEx Supply Chain 
employees, and FedEx Express employees  
at 16 major hub locations in the U.S. Currently, 
we have nearly 1,000 active participants,  
with plans to open up the program to more 
employees in the future.
$15,284,079
provided in tuition assistance to 9,961 
employees to further their education.To supplement our holistic learning approach, 
the FedEx Learning Center offers a digital 
learning experience accessible to all team 
members. The FedEx Learning Center, which 
provides more than 25,000 online courses, 
enables a more efficient and convenient 
learning experience. For details about 
management and non-management  
training hours, see the Data appendix .
Beyond training opportunities, we provide 
ongoing career development tools, 
opportunities, and education for all full-time 
employees. Each operating company designs 
and manages its own leadership and 
development programs in support of its unique 
needs. For example, FedEx Custom Critical 
offers the ASPIRE program for hourly employees 
who strive to join the leadership ranks.  
Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx23
Diversity, equity,  
and inclusion
At FedEx, we believe that DEI delivers  
a better future for all team members,  
customers, suppliers, and communities.  
This year, we added equity to the title  
of our enterprise-wide efforts, formalizing  
our commitment to creating a workplace 
where everyone has fair treatment and  
equal opportunity to succeed.
Each FedEx operating company maintains  
a dedicated team to support DEI across  
the company. Representatives from each 
operating company also participate in  
our enterprise-wide DEI Corporate Council,  
where they share best practices and support 
multicultural programs in the communities  
we serve. The Council works to increase 
business performance, innovation, and 
employee engagement by fostering a  
culture of DEI across the enterprise.
In 2020, FedEx Express created a Global  
DEI Governing Board to oversee DEI efforts 
throughout the FedEx Express operating 
company. This Board also supports our U.S.  and international regional diversity councils, 
which work to address local DEI issues in support 
of the global strategy. FedEx Services and FedEx 
Corporation also maintain a DEI Executive 
Steering Committee to develop DEI strategy, 
oversee DEI efforts, and drive engagement.  
At FedEx Ground, a cross-functional group  
of officers and directors make up the Inclusion 
Leadership Council in order to set and drive 
strategic and tactical DEI efforts.
This year, we also established four consistent, 
strategic pillars across our enterprise to frame 
our DEI work and share our progress: Our 
People; Our Education and Engagement;  
Our Communities, Customers and Suppliers; 
and Our Story. While we provide a consistent 
framework for DEI, each operating company 
structures and operationalizes its approach 
separately to account for regional differences 
in regulations and cultures.
DEI is foundational to our FedEx Cares 
program. It undergirds all of our philanthropic 
focus areas and efforts. Details are available  
on fedexcares.com.
Our communities,  
customers, and suppliers
Serve and support our communities, 
customers, and suppliersOur education and engagement
Enrich, expand, and enhance our 
culture through DEI educationOur people
Recruit, retain, develop, and  
provide advancement opportunities 
for team members
Our story
Amplify the stories of our people, 
celebrate differences, and promote 
DEI efforts across the enterpriseDEIIntroduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx24
Our people
Across our operating companies and in 
cooperation with key organizations, we recruit, 
retain, develop, and provide advancement 
opportunities for team members from a variety 
of backgrounds to build a workforce reflective 
of the world and communities we serve.  
For example, FedEx participated in seven 
enterprise recruitment events in the first half  
of FY21 focused on increasing the diversity of 
our external applicant pools with the Society of 
Hispanic Professional Engineers, the National 
Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Asian 
Scientists and Engineers, and others. Our 
operating companies reviewed and updated 
several policies this year in support of our DEI 
strategy. FedEx Express launched a review  
of current selection policy and processes to 
identify opportunities to increase diversity  
in staff groups and management positions.  
In FY21, FedEx Ground launched an internal 
workforce development program—Purple 
Pathways—focused on developing the skills 
and knowledge for our most diverse employee 
populations, front-line managers and package 
handlers. FedEx Ground also piloted Diversity 
Hiring Checks and Pool Hiring processes, which 
provide tools and process enhancements to 
increase diversity in applicant pools and on 
interview panels.
As part of our commitment to equity, we 
conduct periodic benchmarking analyses  
to ensure our pay remains competitive. In 
addition, FedEx regularly assesses internal  
pay equity. In each pay analysis, we adjust  
for job tenure, region, performance, and other 
variables that can influence pay over time.Our education and engagement
We strive to create a workplace that has  
the right accountability, infrastructure, and 
resources to foster a culture where all team 
members feel included. We continue to  
develop and share resources, training, and 
regular communications to enrich, expand,  
and enhance our culture. 
Across our organization, FedEx team members 
can participate in business resource teams 
(BRTs), employee networks, and affinity groups 
that build supportive communities, create 
connections, and help recruit, develop, and 
retain talent through programs and events. 
Numerous networks are available to team 
members, including, but not limited to, Women 
in Leadership, Black Professionals Network, 
All-Generations, Multi-Ethnic Leadership 
Community, Asia Network, LGBT & Friends, 
Military Veterans, Growing Professionals, 
Parents Working Together, and many others. 
We are increasing education for team 
members, including new micro-learning DEI 
content accessible across FedEx Freight, FedEx 
Services, FedEx Corporate, FedEx Express,  
and FedEx Ground. Programs include subjects 
such as unconscious bias, which is offered in 
sessions to Officers and Directors as well as all 
team members through online course content. 
A speaker series titled “Real Talk” was launched 
for global officers and directors on topics such 
as allyship, unconscious bias, and courageous 
conversations as part of the DEI education 
platform. In Latin America, FedEx Express also 
started an “Outspoken Zoom Series,” where 
speakers focus on the value that LGBTQ+ 
employees and allies bring to our workplace.Diversity starts at the top
The FedEx Board of Directors includes 12 directors, four of whom are women and  
three of whom are ethnically diverse. Women represent 25% of FedEx management 
employees globally, while 38% of management employees in the U.S. are minorities.
25%
of FedEx management 
employees globally  
are women.38%
of FedEx management 
employees in the U.S.  
are minorities.Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx25
A portion of the multi-year commitment will 
provide relief support to help students, faculty, 
and staff who suffered adverse economic 
impact due to COVID-19. According to the 
schools, the support will be incredibly helpful 
for students and families who have faced 
financial hardships during the pandemic.  
The schools will also use the funds to help 
prepare students for the workforce beyond 
formal education.
We deliver value to our small business 
customers in several ways including the FedEx 
Small Business Center and the Small Business 
Grant Contest. The Small Business Center is a 
site with a best-in-class user experience which 
allows customers to easily access customized 
information for their business, where they are. 
The Small Business Grant contest awards cash 
grants and FedEx Office print and business 
services. In FY20, twelve winners received a 
total of $230,000 in grants and $22,500 for 
FedEx Office print and business services.FedEx recognizes DEI should be reflected in 
every area of our supply chain. Our formal 
Supplier Diversity program launched in 1992, 
and since then, we have been committed to 
working directly with diverse businesses that 
are competitive in quality, service, and cost.  
To learn more about our Supplier Diversity 
program, please see Our supply chain  section 
of this report.
Our story
FedEx continues to amplify the stories of our 
people and celebrate their differences to 
promote and strengthen our DEI efforts across 
the enterprise. Our virtual DEI Depot makes  
it easier for team members to find and use  
DEI resources, and to raise awareness of our  
efforts and share team member stories. We 
also distribute the DEI Download, a quarterly 
newsletter focused on ongoing DEI initiatives, 
to FedEx Services and FedEx Corporate 
management. The DEI Download provides 
helpful insights and resources to managers  
to encourage DEI within FedEx teams.
See our DEI webpage  for more information  
on our DEI programs. See the Data appendix  
for FedEx global headcount by gender, U.S. 
percent workforce diversity, and global percent 
generational diversity.Our communities,  
customers, and suppliers
FedEx serves and supports our communities, 
customers and suppliers in creating a more 
inclusive and equitable society. In FY20, we 
contributed more than $5 million to non-profit 
organizations working on DEI in business  
and the community. Through FedEx Cares ,  
we support programs that offer training, 
mentoring, networking, and access to capital 
for women and minority entrepreneurs, 
providing them the tools they need to succeed.
We provide more than $1 million annually  
in scholarships and leadership development 
programming in the U.S., namely through  
seven scholarship funds—American Indian 
College Fund, APIA (Asian and Pacific  
Islander American) Scholars, Hispanic 
Scholarship Fund, Marine Corps Scholarship 
Fund, Point Foundation, Thurgood Marshall  
College Fund, and United Negro College Fund.  We also have endowed scholarships at 
Tennessee State University, Jackson State 
University, and LeMoyne-Owen College. 
The funds provide scholarships that range  
from $1,000 to $25,000 annually for over  
120 college and university students across 
various STEM, business, and specialist 
disciplines. We also launched the second 
semester of Boardroom Experiences at FedEx 
Freight, a program that provides students  
at historically black colleges and universities 
(HBCU) exposure to corporate culture  
through engaging with different executives. 
The COVID-19 pandemic impacted some 
students at HBCUs financially and in the 
classroom. To help, FedEx pledged to donate  
$5 million to four HBCUs near our home base in 
Memphis—Jackson State University in Jackson, 
Mississippi; LeMoyne-Owen College in Memphis, 
Tennessee; Mississippi Valley State University  
in Itta Bena, Mississippi; and Tennessee State 
University in Nashville, Tennessee.
Introduction
Environment
» Social
Governance
Data appendixGovernance
Governance framework
As reflected in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the FedEx Board of Directors believes that strong, 
independent leadership is a critical aspect of effective corporate governance. The Board seeks a diverse 
blend of experience and perspectives, institutional knowledge and personal chemistry, and directors 
who will provide sound and prudent guidance with respect to all of the company’s operations and 
interests. We also are committed to having a Board whose membership reflects a diversity of gender, 
race, ethnicity, age, and background. Currently, four members of the Board are females, and three 
Board members are ethnically diverse.
Risk management
At FedEx, we understand ESG topics may create long-term risks for our business. Our Enterprise  
Risk Management (ERM) program identifies and evaluates top risks—including ESG risks—across the 
company. The ERM process uses a consultative approach that solicits input from senior leadership 
teams at each major operating company. Identified risks are classified into five categories—External, 
Strategic, Operational, Financial, and Compliance—and are prioritized based on likely financial  
impact, probability of occurrence within the next fiscal year, and amount of residual risk remaining  
to the organization. The ERM team reviews and finalizes risks, and top risks are shared with both  
the full Board of Directors and the Audit Committee at least annually, with significant changes  
shared quarterly. For more information about our Board oversight of ESG topics, please refer to  
the Global ESG governance  section of this report.
We continually review our risk management processes to further strengthen our business  
against future risks. We are exploring how to further integrate ESG risks—including climate- and 
diversity-related risks—into our ERM process.
2021 ESG Report FedEx26
Introduction
Environment
Social
» Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx27
Corporate 
integrity and 
compliance
Governance
The FedEx Board of Directors and 
management team are committed to  
achieving and maintaining a culture of, and 
reputation for, the highest levels of ethics, 
integrity, and reliability. Our Board of Directors 
has delegated to its Audit Committee the 
responsibility to review and discuss with 
management the company’s compliance  
and ethics programs, including the Code of 
Conduct and the employee hotline program, 
the FedEx Alert Line. The FedEx Corporate 
Integrity and Compliance department—led by 
our Chief Compliance Officer—provides best 
practices, tools, guidance, communications, 
and training to team members across the 
enterprise. Each FedEx operating company  
is responsible for maintaining compliance  
with regional and sector-specific legal and 
regulatory requirements.
FedEx Code of Conduct
The FedEx Code of Conduct  serves as the 
foundation of our corporate integrity and 
compliance program, and applies to every 
FedEx officer, director, and employee. Our 
officers, directors, and managers are responsible 
for promoting the principles within the Code 
and fostering a culture of ethical conduct.  The Code provides guidance and helps team 
members understand how to adhere to 
relevant laws, ethical standards, and FedEx 
values. We regularly review and update the 
Code to ensure it remains engaging and 
accessible to our global team members, with 
relevant scenarios and examples of how  
to apply the Code in our day-to-day work.
The Code covers a breadth of topics, including 
workplace health, safety, and environment; 
international trade controls; human rights; 
money laundering prevention; equal opportunity 
and anti-harassment; conflicts of interest; 
improper payments and bribes; gifts and 
entertainment; and data security and privacy. 
We provide regular training to team members 
on these and other Code topics. Every new  
hire is introduced to the Code through online 
training, orientation, or manager discussions.  
In FY20, we launched new online compliance 
courses to better engage and effectively 
communicate with team members working 
virtually. Managers are provided with resources 
and talking points to discuss the Code with 
team members who do not have regular  
access to computers. Depending on their 
responsibilities and the associated risks  
they face, team members may receive more 
detailed training. Our Corporate Integrity  
and Compliance team provides best practices 
and guidance to each of our operating 
companies on the Code, and each operating 
company implements its own communications 
plan for the Code based on local operating 
environments and languages.FedEx Corporation annually surveys officers, 
directors, and senior managers at all FedEx 
operating companies regarding Code and 
integrity risks. This survey, known as the  
FedEx Code of Conduct Questionnaire 
(“Questionnaire”), has been used for over  
20 years. The Questionnaire requires the 
participants to certify that they have read  
the Code, are aware of their duty to report 
violations of the Code to FedEx, have  
discussed the Code with their direct reports, 
have instructed their direct reports to report 
possible violations of law, and have exercised 
appropriate supervision to ensure compliance 
with the Code. The Questionnaire is a  
valuable tool for FedEx Legal, Internal Audit, 
and the Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
department to identify corruption and  
internal control risks. Our commitment to doing the right thing 
depends on our team members’ being 
comfortable in reporting any suspected 
violations of law or unethical conduct, and  
our leaders’ abilities to set the proper tone  
and address suspected violations promptly, 
with care and respect. Any team member that 
knows of or suspects a violation of the Code, 
any law or regulation, or FedEx policy must report 
the matter to a manager, Human Resources, 
FedEx Legal, Security, or the FedEx Alert Line,  
a 24-hour, confidential hotline available online 
or via telephone, with translations in more than 
35 languages. Our policy against retaliation 
encourages employees to come forward to 
report concerns in good faith. When a matter  
is reported to a manager or Human Resources, 
the concern is reviewed to determine whether 
it should be escalated to the Legal department. 
The Legal department also has criteria for 
further escalation, if necessary, to Legal 
department management.
Introduction
Environment
Social
» Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx28
Global policies
We have additional policies that specify our 
requirements and expectations on a range of 
integrity and compliance matters. We develop 
and update these policies when we identify a 
need for employee clarification, the emergence 
of new laws or regulations, or other external 
factors. In 2020, we updated our Global 
Anti-Corruption Policy  and Global Antitrust  
& Competition Law Policy  in response to new 
laws enacted around the world and to better 
communicate the principles in these policies  
to our team members. We routinely update the 
language in our policies, and how we present 
information, to ensure our team members 
understand the risks they face in their jobs,  
and steps they can take to mitigate those risks 
and report potential problems.Our third-party compliance program is  
based on risk and begins with background  
due diligence before we engage certain  
third parties. Depending on the level of risk,  
program requirements include due diligence 
questionnaires, investigatory due diligence, 
contractual anti-corruption representations 
and warranties, annual certifications of 
compliance, anti-corruption training, ongoing 
watch list monitoring, and other practices  
to mitigate risks. In some circumstances, our  
third parties are subject to internal audits  
and business reviews.
Our commitment to human rights is an 
important part of our Code of Conduct. We are 
committed to protecting and advancing human 
rights in our operations around the world. We 
pay fair wages and comply with wage laws in all 
the countries where we operate and we require 
our third parties and suppliers to uphold these 
important principles. We prohibit the use of 
child, compulsory, or forced labor, and we share 
the zero-tolerance policies adopted by the 
United States and other governments against 
slavery and human trafficking. We prohibit the 
trafficking of persons for any purpose and 
trafficking-related activities, and we expect  
the same from our suppliers and contractors. 
We provide training to educate, equip, 
empower, and mobilize select team members 
in this effort. Our Policy Prohibiting Trafficking 
in Persons  provides more information about 
this commitment.In 2020, we launched a new public-facing 
website, Corporate Integrity & Compliance , 
featuring our Code of Conduct and all our 
global policies. The new website allows 
customers and other stakeholders to easily 
access some of our key policies that govern  
our ethical behavior to ensure customers  
can trust us with their shipments.
Our Integrity and Compliance policies
 »Code of Conduct
 » Global Antitrust and Competition Law Policy
 »Policy Prohibiting Trafficking in Persons  
 »Global Conflicts of Interest Policy
 »Policy on Political Contributions  
 »Global Gifts and Entertainment Policy
 »Global Anti-Corruption Policy  
 »Global Privacy Policy  
 »Social Media Guidelines
Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy  provides 
guidance to team members regarding our 
prohibition on bribes or corruption of any kind 
throughout our organization. Anti-corruption 
training is required for team members who have 
higher risk roles or work in higher risk locations.
Our Global Conflicts of Interest Policy  provides 
guidance to team members about the types  
of activities and relationships that could lead  
to a conflict of interest with FedEx. Conflicts 
can arise from things like hiring or supervising 
family, relationships with vendors, dating at 
work, or having a side business or second job.
We maintain a program to ensure our  
third-party suppliers and contractors adhere  
to requirements and expectations for  
ethical and compliant behavior at all times.  
Introduction
Environment
Social
» Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx29
Cybersecurity 
and data 
privacy
Our customers rely on our ability to securely 
and reliably deliver their packages, including 
providing a safe, secure online environment. 
Protecting the privacy of our customers, 
vendors, and team members is essential to 
maintaining their trust, and we take a proactive 
approach to safeguard all personal data and 
ensure a secure environment. The FedEx  
Board of Directors has delegated to the 
Information Technology Oversight Committee 
the responsibility to review and discuss with 
management the company’s cybersecurity and 
technology-related risks and the technologies, 
policies, processes, and practices for managing 
and mitigating such risks. 
With the increasing presence and sophistication 
of online threats, we must ensure continuous 
improvement to protect our business and our 
customers. In FY20, we assembled a cross-
functional leadership team co-led by members 
of our Information Security and Physical Security 
departments to review and evaluate our 
enterprise-wide cybersecurity efforts and risks. 
The leadership team includes representatives 
from our Corporate Integrity and Compliance, 
Legal, and Government Affairs departments. This team oversaw the creation of response 
playbooks that established FedEx processes for 
responding to potential events, including data 
breaches and ransomware attacks. We are also 
developing new policies and processes that 
govern data-deletion procedures across FedEx.
We regularly review our practices and policies 
to ensure we maintain compliance with all 
relevant regulations. Our Global Privacy Office 
is responsible for global compliance with 
regulations. In FY20, we made adjustments to 
align with new state privacy laws in the United 
States. We also began preparing for other new 
regulations, including Brazil’s General Law for 
the Protection of Privacy and South Africa’s 
Protection of Personal Information Act. We 
have expanded our internal privacy governance 
network to better identify privacy risks and 
implement privacy policies and controls. 
The FedEx Trust Center  website highlights our 
Global Privacy Policy, along with information 
about how we protect customer privacy and 
resources to help our customers identify, 
report, and mitigate risks. We do not sell 
customers’ personal data to third parties.
Additionally, FedEx employees with a  
computer are required to complete an annual 
online training course on information security 
and data privacy. The course addresses a range 
of topics related to information security and 
data privacy, including awareness regarding 
social engineering and cybercrimes, protecting 
the workplace, and protecting data.FedEx Data Privacy Day
We hosted our first annual FedEx Data Privacy Day in January 2020 and our second annual 
event in January 2021. The 2021 event, hosted by our Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
department, was held virtually and welcomed all FedEx employees to learn more about 
cybersecurity and privacy. The event was kicked off with a keynote speech from our Chief 
Information Officer and included panels and break-out sessions on topics such as data 
governance, phishing, incident response procedures, and protecting cloud-based data.  
In total, more than 1,500 employees attended the 2021 event.
Introduction
Environment
Social
» Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx30
Public policy 
and advocacy
Around the world, FedEx is committed to 
delivering possibilities to help our customers  
to grow, our team members to succeed,  
and our communities and planet to thrive.  
Our commitment is reflected not only 
throughout our operations, but also in  
our public policy goals.We are active participants in the political 
process and members of various trade 
associations to promote and protect the 
economic future of FedEx and our employees, 
customers, and shareholders. We are subject  
to extensive regulation at the federal and state 
levels and have practices in place to ensure  
the appropriate disclosure and oversight of  
our activities. Our independent Nominating  
& Governance Committee assists the Board  
of Directors in its oversight of FedEx political 
activities. The Committee reviews and 
discusses with our Executive Vice President, 
General Counsel and Secretary, at least 
annually, the company’s political activities, 
including political spending and lobbying 
activities and expenditures. The Committee 
periodically reviews and discusses  
with management our Policy on Political 
Contributions and approves any changes  
to this policy.
We remain engaged with state-level efforts 
related to legislation on personal delivery 
devices, such as Roxo™ , the FedEx SameDay 
Bot, that support the deployment of zero 
emission, environmentally friendly, local 
transportation solutions. At the federal level, 
we continue to support the modernization of 
federal transportation equipment standards  
to include twin 33-foot trailers. Updates to this 
standard would reduce our truck trips, fuel use, 
and GHG emissions across our FedEx Freight 
and FedEx Ground operations.Our supply 
chain 
As the COVID-19 pandemic affected supply 
chains globally, we continued to work with each 
of our suppliers to keep commerce flowing 
around the world. The FedEx Services Supplier 
Relationship Management (SRM) team leads 
our efforts to manage critical supply chain 
risks—especially those inherent in extended 
supply chains—through a consolidated set of 
policies, tools, and governance practices. We 
work to mitigate the most significant risks by 
working closely with our suppliers and focusing 
on those suppliers critical to our business 
success. The SRM team is also responsible for 
advancing supplier diversity and sustainability.We expect all our suppliers, including 
independent transportation service providers, 
to uphold the principles in our Code of 
Conduct and to aspire to meet our ESG 
commitments. We include sustainability-related 
questionnaires in our requests for qualifications 
and proposals (RFx) in core categories. During 
FY20, we screened 92.6% of potential and 
current Sourcing-managed suppliers with 
sustainability RFx questions, an increase of 
6.8% over the previous year. To further our 
supplier sustainability efforts, we include 
sustainability-related contract language  
in our new or amended contracts and the 
expectation to uphold the FedEx Code of 
Conduct. This language addresses supplier 
performance in environmental, social, labor, 
and human rights areas, including child and 
forced labor. We continued to include ESG 
criteria in 100% of supplier scorecards. 
We are active participants  
in the political process and 
members of various trade 
associations to promote and 
protect the economic future  
of FedEx and our employees, 
customers, and shareholders.
At the global level, we advocate for public 
policies that encourage free trade and support 
solutions that address trade barriers. We 
believe that a zero-tariff, zero-subsidy global 
trade environment remains the most powerful 
economic growth engine, and we continue  
to push for policies that stimulate rather  
than depress global trade. With a global 
government and regulatory affairs structure 
that aligns and consolidates our regional 
approach to regulatory and policy advocacy, 
we are positioned to track trade-related 
developments across key markets and to 
support global trade through advocacy  
work and free trade agreements. Introduction
Environment
Social
» Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx31
The SRM team collaborates with FedEx internal 
stakeholders across the value chain to drive 
sustainability and diversity into our supply 
chain. This includes mechanisms to ensure  
we use sustainable products and the products 
deliver the expected sustainability benefits. 
The SRM team provides FedEx operating 
companies with a system to submit sourcing 
concerns, such as receiving an incorrect 
product or a product that cannot be used  
as planned. In addition, we maintain an  
internal Sourcing Sustainability Impact  
Team that shares learnings, best practices,  
and benchmarking findings for continuous 
improvement. As founding members of the 
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council 
(SPLC), we remain actively involved in the 
SPLC’s Strategic Advisory Committee. We  
align our sourcing criteria and metrics for 
sustainability with SPLC recommendations  
that follow ISO 20400 guidance across all  
our operating companies. This program 
includes supplier risk screening, training,  
and guidelines for sustainable procurement. FedEx Express Europe sustainable 
sourcing and procurement  
In support of our overall Corporate Sustainability Strategy, FedEx Express Europe 
developed a strategy that uniquely helps address sustainability issues in Europe.  
This approach enables a focus on innovations that address the European market, 
considering factors such as regulations and customer expectations. The FedEx 
Express Europe sustainability strategy is supported by a cross-functional team  
and a suite of ambitious projects across our air network, fleet, City Logistics, 
innovation, properties, HR, and Procurement work streams. 
Our suppliers and subcontractors represent a significant part of our European 
environmental footprint, and we are collaborating with them to help achieve our 
sustainability ambitions. 
 » Risk assessment & monitoring: Supplier Audit Program—Supplier self-assessments 
and third-party supplier sustainability ratings address sustainability risks and 
development opportunities
 » Strategic supply chain development: Supplier Sustainability Collaboration  
Projects—Enabling innovative solutions and new business models with selected 
suppliers to optimize our common sustainability and circularity performance
 » Procurement Process Embedding—The Sustainability toolkit and Sustainable 
Procurement Reporting enable our community to embed sustainability in its 
operational procurement activitiesWe remain committed to helping lift local 
economies by investing in people and 
communities where we live and work.  
In the U.S., this includes seeking diverse  
suppliers and strengthening our supply  
chain by sourcing from small, minority- and 
women-owned businesses. During FY20,  
our continued support of diverse suppliers 
helped to keep their businesses going  
during the COVID-19 pandemic. In our U.S.  
operations, we participate in alliances, industry 
associations, learning opportunities, and other 
events to help entrepreneurs build capacity 
and develop their full potential. In FY20, we 
procured $13.3 billion in goods and services 
from diverse and small-business suppliers in 
the U.S. Of that $13.3 billion, 7% was spent 
with women-owned businesses and 12%  
was spent with minority-owned businesses.  
The remaining 81% was spent with other 
small-business suppliers. 
Our FedEx Cares program is committed to 
helping entrepreneurs everywhere succeed 
through our Global Entrepreneurship focus. 
Women- and minority-owned businesses face 
disproportionate challenges to accessing the 
tools, networks, training, and capital needed  
to transform an idea into a successful 
enterprise. We want to help change this by 
connecting entrepreneurs—especially women 
and minorities—to the resources they need  
to stay in business, create new jobs, support  
their families, and contribute to thriving 
communities. We invest in training, mentoring, 
networking, and access to capital programs 
that help small business owners navigate the 
complex set of challenges they face.
We remain committed to 
helping lift local economies  
by investing in people and 
communities where we live  
and work.Introduction
Environment
Social
» Governance
Data appendix2021 ESG Report FedEx32
Data appendix
Environment
Direct and indirect energy consumption (terajoules) FY18 FY19 FY20
Direct energy consumption
Aircraft fuel
 Jet fuel1 168,804 172,446 173,173
Vehicle fuel2 
 Diesel 42,989 43,081 40,701
   Renewable biodiesel (percent of total diesel)34,019 (9.35%) 3,975 (9.23%) 3,574 (8.78%)
 Gasoline 3,385 3,517 3,032
   Renewable ethanol (percent of total gasoline) 2.3 (0.07%) 2.8 (0.08%) 1.9 (0.06%)
 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG: propane) 954 1,030 1,116
  Liquefied natural gas (LNG) and compressed natural gas (CNG) 156 149 224
Facility energy use
 Natural gas 6,797 7,808 7,114
 Heating oil 38 33 18
Total direct energy consumption (terajoules) 223,123 228,064 225,378
Indirect energy consumption
Facility purchased energy use 
 Purchased electricity 8,461 8,077 8,227
 Purchased heating N/R 0 63
 Purchased cooling 2 0.5 0.3
Total indirect energy consumption (terajoules) 8,463 8,077 8,290
Total direct and indirect energy consumption (terajoules) 231,586 236,142 233,668
Other indirect energy consumption
Contracted transportation4 38,179 41,969 45,777
Total other indirect energy consumption (terajoules) 38,179 41,969 45,777
Total energy consumption (terajoules) 269,765 278,111 279,445
1  Currently none of our jet fuel consumed is sourced from alternative or sustainable feedstocks. See page 12 for progress on our efforts 
to obtain jet fuel from alternative fuel sources.
2 Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
3 Restated FY19 renewable biodiesel usage and percentage due to overstated data in last year’s report.
4  Includes energy from: (1) fuel sold by FedEx Ground to independent pickup-and-delivery and linehaul contractors through on-site fueling 
facilities, or purchased by independent linehaul contractors through retail outlets using fleet fuel cards, (2) fuel used by FedEx Freight 
contractors in Canada, (3) allocated portion of fuel used by commercial interline aircraft carriers in support of FedEx Express international 
shipping, and (4) fuel used by FedEx Express feeder aircraft contract operators.2021 ESG Report FedEx33
Direct and indirect GHG emissions (metric tons CO2e) FY18 FY19 FY20
Direct energy consumption (scope 1)
Aircraft fuel
 Jet fuel 11,467,497 11,692,918 11,753,275
Vehicle fuel1 
 Diesel  3,049,466 3,020,199 2,851,263
 Gasoline 235,226 242,740 209,246
 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG: propane) 55,432 59,850 64,775
  Liquefied natural gas (LNG) and  
compressed natural gas (CNG)8,153 7,810 9,131
Facility energy use
 Natural gas 333,844  379,953 346,208
 Heating oil 2,765 2,703 1,422
Total direct emissions (scope 1) (metric tons CO2e) 15,152,383 15,406,173 15,235,320
Indirect energy consumption (scope 2)
Facility purchased energy use
 Purchased electricity 1,049,902 995,965 945,229
 Purchased heating N/R 0 3,034
 Purchased cooling 85 22 17
Total indirect energy emissions (scope 2) (metric tons CO2e) 1,049,987 995,988 948,280
 Market-based scope 2 emissions2 1,049,987 995,988 948,280
Total direct and indirect emissions  
(scope 1 and 2) (metric tons CO2e)3 16,202,370 16,402,161 16,183,600
Other indirect energy consumption (scope 3)
Contracted transportation4 2,740,531 3,020,239 3,166,191
Team member business travel 80,434 79,054 64,380
Total other indirect emissions (scope 3) (metric tons CO2e) 2,820,965 3,099,293 3,230,571
Total greenhouse gas emissions  
(scope 1, 2, and 3) (metric tons CO2e)19,023,335 19,501,454 19,414,171
1 Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
2  Based on comprehensive assessment performed for FY17, we determined the difference between Location- and Market-based  
Scope 2 emissions is de minimis at the present time. Therefore, we are reporting the same value for both metrics for FY18–FY20.
3 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data was externally verified  by Cventure LLC.
4  Includes emissions from: (1) fuel sold by FedEx Ground to independent pickup-and-delivery and linehaul contractors through on-site 
fueling facilities, or purchased by independent linehaul contractors through retail outlets using fleet fuel cards, (2) fuel used by FedEx 
Freight contractors in Canada, (3) allocated portion of fuel used by commercial interline aircraft carriers in support of FedEx Express 
international shipping, (4) fuel used FedEx Express feeder aircraft contract operators, and (5) contracted intermodal rail at FedEx 
Freight and FedEx Ground.2021 ESG Report FedEx34
Energy and emissions intensity FY18 FY19 FY20
Consolidated revenue (million U.S. dollars) $65,450 $69,693 $69,217 
Total energy intensity (terajoules/million U.S. dollars) 4.12 3.99 4.04 
Total emissions intensity (scope 1 and 2)  
(metric tons CO2e/million U.S. dollars revenue)247.55 235.35 233.81
Total emissions intensity (scope 1, 2, and 3)  
(metric tons CO2e/million U.S. dollars revenue)290.65 279.82 280.48Direct and indirect GHG emissions:  
GHG equivalency breakdown (metric tons CO2e)FY18 FY19 FY20
Total direct energy emissions (scope 1)1 
Carbon dioxide (CO2) 14,772,347 15,252,870 15,084,540
Methane (CH4) 7,287 5,182 5,587
Nitrous oxide (N2O)2 160,128 138,380 145,191
Total indirect energy emissions (scope 2)
Carbon dioxide (CO2) 1,042,938 989,008 942,741
Methane (CH4) 1,965 2,104 2,287
Nitrous oxide (N2O) 5,084 4,876 3,254
Total direct and indirect energy emissions (scope 1 and 2)2
Carbon dioxide (CO2) 15,815,285 16,241,878 16,027,281
Methane (CH4) 9,252 7,286 7,874
Nitrous oxide (N2O) 165,212 143,256 148,445
Total CO2e (scope 1 and 2) 15,989,749 16,392,420 16,183,600
1  FY18 data does not include TNT Express vehicle fuel emissions as we did not get those GHGs broken out in that fiscal year. FY18  
and FY19 data also does not include vehicle CNG/LNG usage as those GHGs were not broken out separately in those fiscal years.
2 FY18 data restated slightly due to incorrect data reported in last year’s report.
Other significant air pollutants (metric tons)1 FY18 FY19 FY20
Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 75,143 74,526 74,550
Sulfur oxides (SOX) 10,807 11,050 11,127
Particulate matter (PM10) 839 764 736
1 NOX and PM10 data does not include vehicle fleet outside the U.S. and Canada.2021 ESG Report FedEx35
Fuel- and energy-saving initiatives FY18 FY19 FY20
Energy saved (terajoules)
FedEx Express aircraft fleet modernization 15,591 19,992 19,490
FedEx Fuel Sense ( jet fuel) 13,436 15,571 16,845
FedEx Express vehicle efficiency initiatives 3,401 3,627 4,476
FedEx Freight intermodal rail usage 3,787 4,022 3,324
Facility energy efficiency initiatives1828 918 985
On-site solar electricity generation2 76 85 88
Total energy saved 37,119 44,214 45,209
CO2e emissions avoided (metric tons)
FedEx Express aircraft fleet modernization 1,058,368 1,355,852 1,321,430
FedEx Fuel Sense ( jet fuel) 912,023 1,054,418 1,055,690
FedEx Express vehicle efficiency initiatives 240,171 255,666 315,519
FedEx Freight intermodal rail usage 296,511 281,278 232,557
Facility energy efficiency initiatives1171,252 179,638 193,492
On-site solar electricity generation212,504 13,447 13,225
Total emissions avoided 2,690,829 3,140,299 3,131,913
1  Facility energy efficiency initiatives include building lighting retrofits and energy management systems. FY19 data restated slightly 
higher due to underreporting of data in last year’s report. CO2e calculated using the EPA GHG Calculator. FY20 emissions avoided  
data uses EPA GHG Calculator’s updated emission factors.
2 CO2e calculated using the EPA GHG Calculator. FY20 emissions avoided data uses EPA GHG Calculator’s updated emission factors.
Global alternative vehicle fleet FY18 FY19 FY20
Total alternative vehicles 3,873 4,031 4,091
 Hybrid 389 350 311
 Electric 2,554 2,944 3,078
  Liquefied natural gas (LNG) and  
compressed natural gas (CNG)331 217 218
 Liquefied petroleum gas (propane)1 583 515 481
 Hydrogen fuel cell 16 5 3
1 Total does not include LPG/propane-powered forklifts.2021 ESG Report FedEx36
Facilities overview FY18 FY19 FY20
Number of ISO 14001 certified sites1 561 606 453
Number of LEED certified buildings2 29 33 32
Number of FedEx Freight GREEN site-designated facilities 490 490 489
Number of FedEx Ground EarthSmart  
Champion-designated facilities460 460 490
1 The majority of ISO 14001 certified facilities are at FedEx Express.
2  Restated FY18 and FY19 data to reflect all FedEx operating companies and global regions. The majority of LEED certified buildings,  
in FY2020, are at FedEx Express (24), followed by FedEx Ground (6), FedEx Freight (1), and FedEx Office (1).
Solar energy FY18 FY19 FY20
Number of on-site solar energy systems companywide 23 25 26
Solar electricity generated on-site (kWh) 21,041,856  23,488,859 24,512,386
Emissions avoided by solar sites (metric tons CO2e) 12,504 13,447 13,225
Materials consumption FY18 FY19 FY20
Packaging materials1 
 Total packaging (metric tons) 66,495 57,110 58,964
 Percent of packaging from recycled content 41% 45% 42%
  Percent of packaging from third-party certified content 55% 68% 80%
Paper
  FedEx Office copy and print paper (metric tons)2 16,947 16,768 13,933
 Percent of paper from recycled content 12% 14% 12%
 Percent of paper from third-party certified content3 100% 100% 100%
Other operational materials (solids)
  Total other operational materials (solids: metric tons) 18,879 19,580 21,204
  Percent of other operational materials  
(solids) from recycled content61% 65% 66%
Total solid materials used (metric tons) 109,630 93,458 94,100
Other operational materials (fluids: liters)4 6,565,694 6,460,394 4,105,511
1  In addition to cardboard, other materials used in shipping include bubble pack, plastic air pillows, chipboard, Tyvek® envelopes, and 
packaging tape.
2  The vast majority of paper usage at FedEx is for commercial copy and print services at our FedEx Office operating company in the U.S. 
Therefore we are only reporting FedEx Office copy and print paper usage, as we consider paper usage at other operating companies 
to be immaterial.
3 Includes FSC, SFI, PEFC, Tree Free, ISO 14001, Green Seal, Wind Power, and Carbon Neutral.
4 Includes fluids used for deicing aircraft and vehicle fleet maintenance.2021 ESG Report FedEx37
Waste and recycling (metric tons)1 FY18 FY19 FY20
Total waste generated2 291,059 433,848 361,952
 S ent to recyclers 228,311 255,757 251,275
 P ercent sent to recyclers 78% 59% 69%
 L andfilled 62,748 178,091 110,677
Non-hazardous waste3 
Total non-hazardous waste 289,297 430,939 359,831
 S ent to recyclers 227,270 254,422 250,260
 P ercent sent to recyclers 79% 59% 70%
 L andfilled 62,027 176,518 109,572
Hazardous waste4 
Total hazardous waste 1,761 2,909 2,120
 S ent to recyclers 1,041 1,335 1,015
 P ercent sent to recyclers 59% 46% 48%
 L andfilled 721 1,573 1,105
1  Waste at many of our facilities is difficult to track because it is collected by haulers contracted by a landlord or local municipality,  
or commingled with other tenants’ waste in shared facilities such as airports and retail malls, and as such has not been included  
in this data.
2 Restated total waste data for FY19 lower due to overreporting of solid (non-regulated/trash) data in last year’s report.
3  Non-hazardous waste data includes the solid waste (non-regulated/trash) and non-hazardous regulated waste categories that were 
reported separately in previous reports.
4  Hazardous waste data includes the hazardous (regulated) waste, universal waste (which encompasses certain hazardous waste items, 
including batteries and mercury-containing lamp bulbs, as defined by U.S. EPA regulations), and electronic waste categories that were 
reported separately in previous reports.
Environmental compliance summary FY18 FY19 FY20
Number of significant spills1 154 171 133
Number of monetary violations from external agencies 3 3 0
Total amount of monetary violations $35,840 $5,280 $0 
1  Defined as spills of hazardous materials like oil, fuel, and chemicals that are reportable to the appropriate environmental regulatory 
agency, such as the U.S. National Response Center.2021 ESG Report FedEx38
Social
Global safety data1 FY18 FY19 FY20
Injury rates
Total lost time injury rate (per 200,000 hours worked)23.34 3.47 3.25
 North America (U.S./Canada) 3.89 3.99 2.51
 Rest of the world (includes TNT Express) 2.21 2.34 2.07
 Lost time injuries percent male366% 66% 64%
 Lost time injuries percent female234% 34% 36%
Work-related fatalities
Total number of employee fatalities (work-related)4 7 10 3
Employee fatality rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.002 0.003 0.0008
1 Does not include independent contractors working on behalf of FedEx.
2  Global lost time injury rate (L TIR) data is based on definitions from the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA). Restated FY19 L TIR lower due to incorrect data in last year’s report.
3  For percent male and percent female breakouts, FedEx Express Europe, TNT Express, and FedEx Logistics numbers are not included 
for FY18. 
4  Based on GRI definition: the death of a worker occurring in the current reporting period, arising from an occupational injury or disease 
sustained or contracted while in the organization’s employ.
Headcount by global region FY18 FY19 FY20
Headcount by geography
Total headcount 426,530 444,770 499,718
 U.S. (percent) 69% 71% 71%
 Europe (percent) 11% 11% 12%
 Asia Pacific (APAC) (percent) 7% 7% 6%
 Latin America, Caribbean (LAC) (percent) 8% 6% 5%
 Canada (percent) 3% 3% 3%
  Middle East, Indian Subcontinent  
and Africa (MEISA) (percent)2% 2% 2%
U.S. headcount by employment status
Full-time employees: U.S. workforce 169,795 181,940 188,989
Part-time employees: U.S. workforce 123,526 132,501 165,2092021 ESG Report FedEx39
Employee hiring and turnover1 FY18 FY19 FY20
New hire data
 Total new hires2 200,411 307,396 303,906
 New hire rate253% 69% 71%
 Male percent of new hires 66% 66% 65%
 Female percent of new hires 34% 34% 35%
Employee turnover data
 Total turnover2191,917 275,006 280,543
 Turnover rate251% 62% 65%
 Male percent of turnover 65% 65% 65%
 Female percent of turnover 35% 35% 35%
1 Does not include TNT Express.
2 Restated FY19 new hire and turnover data significantly higher due to underreported data in last year’s report.
Team member career development1 FY18 FY19 FY20
Total average training hours 19.07 37.51 36.70
 Management 38.68 45.67 39.19
 Non-management 17.50 36.33 36.11
1 Does not include TNT Express.
Global headcount by gender1 FY18 FY19 FY20
Total employees 377,226 403,631 428,936
Total male employees 269,824 288,340 303,154
 Male percent of headcount 72% 71% 71%
Total female employees 107,052 115,291 125,780
 Female percent of headcount 28% 29% 29%
Total management employees 28,559 30,381 23,465
 Male percent of management employees 78% 77% 75%
 Female percent of management employees 22% 23% 25%
Total non-management employees 348,667 373,250 405,471
 Male percent of non-management employees 71% 71% 70%
 Female percent of non-management employees 29% 29% 30%
1 Does not include TNT Express.2021 ESG Report FedEx40
U.S. workforce diversity FY18 FY19 FY20
Ethnicity
Caucasian 49.2% 47.7% 45.1%
Black/African American 29.0% 29.4% 30.7%
Hispanic/Latin 15.3% 15.9% 16.8%
Asian 4.0% 3.9% 3.7%
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0.6% 0.6% 0.6%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 1.3% 0.5% 0.5%
Other 0.5% 2.0% 2.6%
Diversity in U.S. management
Minorities in U.S. management 35.5% 36.6% 38.4%
Global workforce generational diversity1 FY18 FY19 FY20
Under 30 years of age 29% 26% 34%
30–50 years of age 46% 61% 42%
Over 50 years of age 25% 13% 24%
1 FY18 excludes TNT Express, FedEx Express Europe, and FedEx Express MEISA.
Charitable contributions and volunteerism FY18 FY19 FY20
Total charitable contributions (million U.S. dollars)1 $64.12 $73.82 $65.59 
Total number of FedEx volunteer hours 81,976 105,845 74,489
1  Includes direct cash grants, charitable shipping, Corporate Marketing and FedEx Express in-kind donations to non-profit organizations, 
and team member contributions to annual United Way Campaign.2021 ESG Report FedEx41
Governance
Supply chain FY18 FY19 FY20
Total number of suppliers participating in RFx event 386 508 230
Total number of suppliers asked  
sustainability questions in RFx event300 436 213
Percent of suppliers screened with sustainability RFx questions 78% 86% 93%
Diverse supplier spending (billion U.S. dollars) $9.6 $12.3 $13.3
  Minority-owned businesses  
(percent of total diverse supplier spend)15% 12% 12%
  Women-owned businesses  
(percent of total diverse supplier spend)9% 8% 7%
  Other small businesses  
(percent of total diverse supplier spend)76% 80% 81%
Minority-owned businesses (billion U.S. dollars) $1.40 $1.50 $1.60 
 Minority spend by demographic (percent)
  Hispanic 23% 28% 31%
  African American 30% 30% 29%
  South Asian Indian 4% 5% 3%
  Asian 5% 4% 4%
  Other/not disclosed1 38% 33% 33%
1 This includes Native American, which was <1% of data reported.2021 ESG Report FedEx42
Cautionary note 
Certain statements in this report may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management’s  
views with respect to future events and financial performance and underlying assumptions. Forward-looking statements include those 
preceded by, followed by, or that include the words “will,” “may,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” 
“estimates,” “targets,” “projects,” “intends,” or similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties,  
and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or 
implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully 
implement our business strategy, effectively respond to changes in market dynamics and achieve the anticipated benefits and 
associated cost savings of such strategies and actions; our ability to meet certain goals relating to aircraft emissions, vehicle fuel 
efficiency, alternative fuels, and renewable energy, and aircraft and vehicle fleet modernization within the currently projected costs  
and the expected timeframes, including our goal of carbon neutral operations by 2040; the availability of zero emission electric  
vehicles, alternative fuels, fuel efficient aircraft, and other materials and components; unforeseen production, design, operational,  
and technological difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments, including the ability to scale 
projects and technologies on a commercially competitive basis such as carbon sequestration and/or other related processes; 
compliance with, and changes or additions to, global and regional regulations, taxes, charges, mandates, or requirements relating  
to greenhouse gas emissions, carbon costs, or climate-related goals; labor-related regulations and requirements that restrict or  
prohibit our ability to impose requirements on third parties who provide contracted transportation for our transportation networks; 
adapting products to customer preferences and customer acceptance of sustainable supply chain solutions; the actions of  
competitors and competitive pressures; the pace of regional and global recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic; and other factors  
which can be found in FedEx Corp.’s and its subsidiaries’ press releases and FedEx Corp.’s filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We do not undertake or assume any 
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
FedEx Corporation
942 South Shady Grove Road
Memphis, Tennessee 38120
Please visit fedex.com/sustainability .