Everything is connected
A Global Citizenship Update for 2009Any society’s ability to raise its standard 
of living requires lowering the barriers 
that separate it from the world.
This report is about how FedEx 
responsibly applies its resources  
to help the world do that.
In this report:
Message From the Chairman 2
EarthSmartSM 3
Report Highlights 5
Economics & Access 7
Environment & Efficiency 11
Community & Disaster Relief 17
People & Workplace 21
Report Index 25This is an update to our 2008 Global 
Citizenship Report. Its contents are meant not to be exhaustive, but to provide context and clarity about how our citizenship efforts have changed and evolved over the past year.Message From the Chairman 2
At FedEx, we’re very proud of our ability to move goods  
and information around the world quickly and reliably. But  
we’ve learned over the years that what we do has a bigger 
outcome — our work actually creates new opportunity by 
removing the barriers between people, goods and ideas.
This is a force we call Access, and we know through  
research that Access helps bring greater prosperity to  
people, businesses and nations all over the world. 
As we expand Access to build a better future, we take  
on a great responsibility — both as a steward of the  
earth’s resources and as a citizen of the world. People  
trust us to come through for them, whether it’s delivering 
their shipments, providing online tools, or supporting our 
communities. To meet the expectations of an increasingly connected world, we must try to be transparent about the 
actions we take as well.
This Global Citizenship Report is about those actions. It offers 
information about our progress — and our plans — in the four 
focus areas of our corporate citizenship.
The first is People and Workplace. This is an area of highest 
priority because it’s our team members who work every day 
to meet the expectations of our customers and communities. 
In this report, you’ll learn how their hard work makes our 
business more sustainable, improves our environmental 
performance and helps us become better citizens of every 
community where we work.
The second is Economics and Access. We work to expand 
Access, because more Access means stronger connections 
among the people and ideas that will make the world more 
sustainable and improve quality of life. In this report, you’ll 
learn about research we’ve undertaken in collaboration with 
the Yale Center for Environmental Law & Policy, trying to  
find more common ground between free trade advocates 
and environmentalists.
The third is Environment and Efficiency, where every day we 
tap into our innovative roots to make our business and the 
world more sustainable and efficient. That spirit of innovation 
has produced the transportation industry’s largest fleet of hybrid electric package delivery trucks, which you’ll learn 
more about in this report.The fourth is Community and Disaster Relief. All over the 
world, we apply our resources — planes, delivery trucks, 
facilities and team members — to help communities recover 
from disasters as well as shape their own sustainable futures. 
You’ll learn from this report about our investments in 
organ  izations that support environmental sustainability at  
the community level. One example is EMBARQ, which  
helps cities around the world build transportation networks 
that are safe, clean, convenient and affordable.
In our last Global Citizenship Report, I wrote that our 
company understands the critical importance of contin-
uously earning the trust of team members, customers, 
shareowners and the communities we serve. 
Companies earn trust by holding themselves to practical, 
measurable standards by which all stakeholders can judge 
their actions. Our standards of stewardship are embodied  
in a program we call EarthSmart
SM. It is designed to help  
us ensure that when we invest in physical assets, begin 
programs in our workplace, or form collaborations with 
philanthropic organizations, these actions will have clear, 
tangible benefits for our business, team members, 
customers, the environment, and the communities in  
which we operate.
We hope these pages will give you a clear picture of the 
progress we’ve made so far and the standards we will hold 
ourselves to in the future — all in pursuit of responsibly and 
resourcefully lowering the barriers to Access.
Sincerely,
Frederick W. Smith
Chairman and CEO
FedEx Corporation
3
We could have simply made 
promises. Instead, we are 
committing our business to 
high, measurable standards 
with EarthSmartSM.EarthSmart 4
At FedEx, we have a simple goal: to connect the world in 
responsible and resourceful ways. We’ve organized our efforts to achieve that goal into a program we call EarthSmart
SM.
EarthSmart is our commitment to minimize our impact on the 
environment. It’s designed to encourage innovation that makes 
our business — the way we work and the services we offer — more sustainable, both economically and environmentally. Our aim is to find or create new ways not only to improve our own 
company’s environmental performance, but also to point the 
way for other companies, in our own industry and beyond.
What does EarthSmart innovation look like? Consider 
our delivery trucks. In 2004, we put the very first hybrid 
electric delivery trucks on the road. And just this past year, we advanced our fleet again by introducing the first zero-emissions, all-electric FedEx delivery vehicles in the United 
Kingdom (shown above). We’ve also found ways to retrofit 
conventional delivery trucks with hybrid electric motors. In total, our hybrid electric fleet is the industry’s largest, and those trucks represent the first FedEx assets to achieve the EarthSmart Solutions designation.
Specifically, EarthSmart covers three areas — business,  
culture and community:
 
EarthSmart Solutions
This category covers services and our physical assets and 
includes our planes, trucks and facilities. When the EarthSmart 
Solutions designation is applied to any of our services or assets, it means it has met strict, quantifiable standards  
for innovation and environmental sustainability.
Developed in collaboration with Esty Environmental  
Partners, the EarthSmart Solutions designation maintains strict standards of eligibility. These standards demand  
that any EarthSmart Solution go beyond normal industry 
practices to demonstrate clear and tangible benefits — not only to our business, but also to the environment, our customers, team members and communities in which we 
operate. A solution that doesn’t sufficiently touch these  
points will not receive an EarthSmart Solutions designation.
EarthSmart @ Work
This program provides a way for all FedEx team members to contribute to the company’s environmental sustainability efforts, whatever their role in the company may be. The 
ultimate goal of EarthSmart @ Work is to engage our team 
members on sustainability matters and help them make significant contributions to the environmental sustainability  of our business.
EarthSmart Outreach
This program covers our philanthropic and volunteer efforts that focus on environmental sustainability and are strate-gically aligned with our business goals. We are focusing our 
investments to create sustainable transportation solutions in 
the developing world, to preserve valuable ecosystems and to identify new ways to balance access to trade and investment with responsible environmental stewardship.5
Economics & AccessOur Global Citizenship Focus
FedEx is committed to sustainably connecting the world and enhancing 
the long-term value of the company for our shareowners, for the 
communities and businesses that rely on our services and for our team 
members. Our focus has enabled us to make progress on many of the 
goals we outlined in 2008. For more details, visit csr.fedex.com.
Environment & EfficiencyRevenue  
(In Millions)
FY09
$35,497
FY08
$37,953Diluted Earnings  
Per Share
FY09(1)
$0.31
FY08(2)
$3.60Operating  
Margin
FY09(1)
2.1%
 
FY08(2)
5.5%
(1) To better align our data reporting for 
this metric with other publicly available data, we moved our reporting period for this metric to a calendar year basis 
versus a fiscal year. Additionally, upon 
validation of the CY data, we discovered that we had previously underreported our improvement due to an erroneous data field.
(2) Improvement is cumulative since  
our baseline in 2005.
Utilities Emissions
We have met our objective 
of tracking our facilities’ emissions. See Page 13 for data on Scope I, II and III  
CO
2 Emissions.Renewable  
Energy
We plan to expand our on-site
renewable energy generation
in addition to procurement of
renewable energy credits
(RECs) purchased.
Exceeded FY08 Goal of
25,000  MWh 
of RECs procured
Also, we have added solar electric 
systems, with a current capacity of 
3.92 MW(1) Results for 2009 include a charge 
of $1.2 billion ($1.1 billion, net of tax, 
or $3.45 per diluted share), primarily 
related to impairment charges 
associated with goodwill and aircraft.
(2) Results for 2008 include a charge  
of $891 million ($696 million, net of tax, or $2.23 per diluted share), 
predominately related to impairment 
charges associated with intangible 
assets from the Kinko’s acquisition.
FedEx Express 
Vehicle Fuel 
Efficiency 
Improvement(2)
FY09 
14.1%Goal
20%
by 2020CY08 
8.33%Aircraft Emissions  
% Decline(1)(2)
Goal
20%
by 20206 Report Highlights
Community & Disaster Relief
People & Workplace
Full-time U.S.  
Retention Rate
We strive to maintain or improve  
our full-time retention rate.
FY09
91.5%
FY08
93.1%Women in  
Management  
Roles Globally(1)
FY09 
21.7%
U.S. Ethnic Minorities  In Management Roles
(1)
FY09 
27.0%Employee Engagement
(2)
Our goal is to continue achieving 
high participation rates for employee feedback surveys.
FY09 
93.1%
FY08 
93.4%(1) We remain focused on 
increasing the percentage 
of women and minorities in 
management.
(2) Percent of eligible global 
employees who participate in 
annual feedback surveys.Volunteer Hours
Tracking Goal
100%
We have implemented a  system to track volunteer  hours, which is housed on fedexcares.com.Charitable Giving
(Cash and In-kind  
Giving as Percent  
Of Pre-tax Profits)
FY09 (1) 
1.5%
FY08(2)  
1.1%(1) Excludes the effect of the 
previously described impairment 
charge of $1.2 billion.
(2) Excludes the effect of the 
previously described impairment 
charge of $891 million.7
FedEx and the Yale Center for 
Environmental Law & Policy 
want to find common ground 
for free trade advocates and 
environmentalists.
2005
2002FedEx teams up with SRI International 
to create the Access Index, the first 
comprehensive study to define and 
quantify the impact of Access on 
people, businesses and nations.
The Yale Center for Environmental Law & 
Policy (YCELP) releases its Environmental Sustainability Index, assessing the state of nations’ environmental resources. The study sparks government action around the world.A Decade of Inquiry Into  Access and SustainabilityWhat are the links between environmental sustainability 
and economic sustainability? What makes nations — and the businesses that help fuel their growth — succeed or fail in 
their efforts to achieve both?
These are some of the questions that FedEx is helping the 
Yale Center for Environmental Law & Policy to explore — 
and, ultimately, to answer — with a study due to be released 
in the second half of 2010.
Since 2002, the Yale Center has studied the environmental 
performance and policies of nations all over the world. 
Now, with the support of FedEx, additional research will dig deeper, searching for common ground between a nation’s environmental performance and the actions it takes to 
increase its access to other countries and economies.
With greater understanding of the relationships between 
economic and environmental sustainability, greater collaboration can emerge between free trade advocates  
and environmentalists. Such collaboration might help to ensure that trade and investment are not only engines of 
growth, but also of sustainable growth and stewardship. Leaders of nations and industries may also benefit from  
the study as it will better equip them to navigate the 
complexity of the 21st century global economy. This  study is one of the key investments in our EarthSmart Outreach program (see Page 4).
Ultimately, our work with the Yale Center for Environmental 
Law & Policy matters for three reasons. It will provide needed quantitative insight into the relationship between 
trade and the environment. It will identify and analyze 
significant policy issues. And it will give decision makers around the world fresh analytical insight to promote economic and environmental sustainability.8 Economics & Access
20062008 2010SRI provides an update of the 
Access Index, expanding the report 
from 75 to 109 nations. YCELP 
releases an updated Environmental 
Performance Index (EPI), ranking 
149 countries on 25 indicators of 
environmental performance.
YCELP’s Pilot Environmental Performance 
Index assesses the effectiveness of 133 
nations’ environmental policies. Released at 
the World Economic Forum, the study gives 
governments around the world solid data on 
which to base environmental policy decisions.With the help of FedEx, YCELP  
will release a third update of the  
EPI and move into a broader 
exploration of the relationships 
between trade and environmental 
performance, identifying common 
ground for environmentalists and 
free trade advocates.9
2008
India
This market is enjoying strong 
economic growth, an upsurge 
in foreign investment and an 
increase in bilateral trade.2010 
Europe
Europe has enacted laws 
designed to encourage green development, favoring products 
and practices that minimize the 
impact to the environment.Future
China2009
Turkey
Proximity to consumers in  
Europe, Russia, Central Asia,  
the Middle East and Africa makes 
Turkey a strategic location for 
international business.
Future
Mexico
Future
BrazilFedEx-sponsored trade missions  
have helped a variety of businesses expand their reach into Turkey and India.  
In April 2010, a mission to Europe will do the same for green technology companies, 
while plans are in place for similar missions to Mexico, Brazil and China.
Completed Trade Mission
Future Trade Mission
Green Industries Trade Mission
www.fedex.com/tradeEconomics & Access 10
Trade Missions
Our commitment to expanding Access helps create deeper global 
connections among people and businesses. FedEx creates and 
facilitates these connections in many ways. We work to simplify 
customs regulations, duties and taxes for businesses of all sizes. 
We build new routes, services and access points for communities. 
And we work to knock down barriers to trade and investment.
For example, our new hub in Guangzhou, China, puts us in the 
heart of Asia’s fastest-growing production and trade center, giving 
customers the ability to develop new products and get them to 
more people faster than ever. Our new domestic express service 
in Mexico is helping the country grow as a manufacturing center, 
while our newly expanded warehouse facility at the Guadalajara 
International Airport is making it possible for businesses through-
out Mexico to connect with the world.
Expanding Access gives people more options, new possibilities and 
greater opportunity to improve their lives. From 1981 to 2005, a 
period of unprecedented increase in Access, the number of people 
living in poverty in the developing world declined from one of every 
two people to one in four, according to the World Bank. When 
FedEx helps to expand Access, what we’re really doing is helping 
people, businesses and nations create the networks that open new 
markets, generate new investments, promote greater connectivity, 
create jobs and improve the global economy.To facilitate these networks, we advocate for the free flow of trade 
and investment and its ability to help people prosper. With the help 
of the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Commercial Service, we’ve 
developed a trade mission program that helps businesses connect 
with industry leaders and government officials in emerging markets 
so they can grow their businesses and expand their workforces.
Trade mission delegates and their counterparts in emerging markets 
share best practices, develop market-entry strategies and learn how 
best to navigate the regulatory and competitive landscapes to tap 
into the growth opportunities abroad. We also make arrangements 
for delegates to meet directly with buyers and distributors in a 
matchmaking process that helps participants secure new business 
relationships. In 2008 and 2009, FedEx and the U.S. Commercial 
Service conducted missions to India and Turkey, and we’re planning 
missions to Mexico, Brazil and China.
But the program’s design is not limited to marketplaces defined 
by geography. We focus on specific industries, too. In April 2010, 
FedEx and the U.S. Commercial Service will bring a delegation of 
U.S. businesses to Europe for a Green Industries Trade Mission, 
aimed at helping businesses tap into the thriving global market-
place of sustainable products, services and innovations. Delegates 
will include representatives of the green building industry, renew-
able energy companies, architectural and engineering services,  
as well as environmental and alternative energy groups, among 
others. Delegates will have the opportunity not only to gain greater 
insight into the green markets of specific European countries, but 
also to gain a macro view of the opportunities throughout the 
European Union.
Our trade mission program and alliance with the U.S. Commercial 
Service let FedEx work with customers to ensure they have access 
to opportunities to grow their businesses abroad.2005Hybrids in 
Commercial Fleets
FedEx worked with the Environmental Defense Fund in 2000 to engineer the first hybrid trucks — and to share what we learned with other companies. By 2005, we had 18 hybrid trucks on the road. A year later, the technology we helped to develop had spread through the entire transportation industry.  By the end of 2010, there will be 1,745 hybrid delivery trucks on the road in the  U.S., used by a wide variety of companies.
2010What makes our business 
more sustainable and efficient? 
The same spirit of innovation 
that built it in the first place.11
1818 11795 28796 531 1741,200 3171,745329
FedEx Fleet
 All U.S. FleetsSustainability is changing the way many corporations do 
business. Most companies, though, focus primarily on improving environmental performance and reporting their 
progress and achievements. Greater efficiency is a good 
thing; so is a willingness to share how you achieved it. But for FedEx, this approach misses two key ingredients: leadership and innovation.
We’ve applied our long-standing spirit of innovation to a 
decade-long effort to reduce energy usage, increase energy efficiency and put to use technologies that will change the 
future of our industry.
This year, FedEx became the first U.S.-based company in 
our industry to add the Boeing 777F to its aircraft fleet. The 
777F dramatically enhances our ability to move more freight 
to more distant markets while simultaneously reducing emissions by 18 percent. Flying direct between Asia and the U.S. also eliminates the extra fuel needed for additional landings and takeoffs. We’re also upgrading our fleet by 
replacing narrow-body Boeing 727 aircraft with Boeing 757 
planes — which will cut greenhouse gas emissions and reduce fuel consumption by 47 percent. We plan to have 
at least 15 777Fs by 2014, and have ordered another 15 for 
delivery by 2019. Embracing Boeing’s advancements in aircraft technology allows us to take major steps in meeting both our environmental and economic goals.
Our hybrid electric vehicle fleet offers other examples. 
Starting in 2000, we began exploring ways to put hybrid electric commercial vehicles on the road. Today, we have our industry’s largest fleet of hybrid electric package delivery 
trucks. We built the fleet not only by investing in new 
hybrids, but also by taking the practical, yet groundbreaking step of turning conventional delivery trucks into hybrids. When a conventional truck’s motor reaches the end of its 
useful life, we’ve found a way to retrofit the same truck with a hybrid electric motor, extending the truck’s life and 
decreasing the amount of finite resources it will use in the future. Currently, we’re assisting in the development of  
zero-emission electric/hydrogen fuel cell and hydraulic 
hybrids. And just this past year, we worked with Modec,  a commercial vehicle manufacturer, to develop a new  all-electric commercial delivery truck for use in the  
United Kingdom. Our fleets of hybrid and all-electric  
Modec trucks are the first assets to earn our EarthSmart Solutions designation.
But as we developed and adopted these innovations, our 
vision was broader than our own company’s environmental performance. We invested in these technologies with the specific intention that they would spread to other businesses 
and industries and help set new standards. Today, that’s 
happening: There is a growing market for commercial hybrid vehicles. We fully expect the same to happen with the 777F — that our competitors will follow our lead and begin using smarter, more efficient plane designs. When that happens, 
we all win.
Our commitment to use more efficient energy technology 
extends beyond our fleet. We are equally determined to 
reduce the amount of energy it takes to operate our facilities. Building on the success of our three existing solar electric systems in California, we recently expanded our solar power initiative to our facility in Woodbridge, New Jersey — the 
largest rooftop solar installation in the U.S. — and plan to 
do the same at our Cologne, Germany, facility. When all five facilities are operating, they will have the capacity to generate approximately 5 megawatts — an improvement  
of more than 200 percent over the past year.Environment & Efficiency 1213
Solar Energy
Our EarthSmartSM program will encourage us to meet — and, 
we hope, exceed — the goals we’ve set for reducing emissions 
and improving our energy efficiency. In fact, we hope the 
program will ultimately help us reach what we call a “practical 
environmentalism.” In other words, our efforts will simultaneously transform our business and continue to reduce our impact on  the environment.
Conserving energy is crucial to cutting emissions and operating 
costs. For our facilities this means using new technologies and more sustainable energy sources, including solar power. In August 
2005, we started tapping into that source when FedEx Express 
activated California’s then-largest corporate solar power rooftop installation at our regional hub in Oakland. More than 5,700 solar electric panels cover the 81,000 square feet of roof space, 
producing 904 kilowatts of power. In the spring of 2008, FedEx 
Freight completed the installations of solar electric systems in its Whittier and Fontana, California, facilities, creating 282- and 269-kilowatt solar power systems, respectively.
The success of these efforts encouraged us to expand our solar 
initiatives to our FedEx Ground distribution hub in Woodbridge, New Jersey, and our FedEx Express Central and Eastern European hub in Cologne, Germany. The Woodbridge facility, which came  
online late in 2009, marked the nation’s largest rooftop solar  
panel installation, with 12,400 panels that generate approximately 2.4 megawatts of power, or 30 percent of the facility’s energy needs. And in Cologne, a new state-of-the-art solar energy system, expected to come online during the second half of 2010, will produce approximately one megawatt of power. In total, when all  these projects come online, we will create and use approximately  5 megawatts of renewable energy (see graphic on Page 14).
Efficiencies and Emissions
We call it “20 by 20” — our specific goal to reduce our aircraft emissions intensity and increase our FedEx Express vehicle efficiency 20 percent by the year 2020, as measured against a  
2005 baseline. Today, we’re happy to report that our aviation 
emissions intensity has dropped by over 8 percent. And our  FedEx Express vehicle efficiency has increased by 14.1 percent.
This progress is the fruit of various programs, strategies and 
innovations we’ve developed. Two examples are the Fuel Sense program in our aviation operations and the Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize strategy we’ve applied to our vehicle fleet.
 
The Fuel Sense program unites 30 different teams within  FedEx to find new ways to use less fuel throughout our aviation operations. Fuel Sense also helps guide our plans to replace older  
aircraft with more fuel-efficient planes that have larger payload 
capacity. For example, our new Boeing 777F planes burn less fuel than others in their class, and have increased range and payload capacity. Replacing our 727s with 757s is improving our efficiency and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. 
(continued on Page 16) 
Enterprise Scope I  
CO2 Emissions(1)
FY09
14,101,552
metric tons
Enterprise Scope II  
CO2 Emissions (1)
FY09
1,065,689
metric tonsScope III CO2 Emissions (1)(2)
FY09
1,132,571
metric tons
(1) CO2 emission factors and 
associated conversion factors 
were calculated using the 
World Resources Institute 
and World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.Electric and Hybrid  
Electric Vehicle Count
CY09
327
CY08
174
This represents an 88%  
growth in our electric and  
hybrid electric vehicle  
fleet since 2008.Vehicles’ Fuel Efficiency Improvement  (FedEx Express) 
(3)(4)FY09 
14.1%
FY06 
5.4%FY07 
9.3%FY08
11.5%(2) Based on fuel sold to 
FedEx Ground indepen -
dent contractors and FedEx Express feeder aircraft 
operators.
(3) From baseline year of 2005.(4) In FY09 our quality 
auditing procedure revealed a 
statistical error in our baseline 
reporting (FY05). Upon correcting the error we found that our vehicle efficiency was slightly better for FY05 than initially reported.Environment & Efficiency 14
Renewable Energy Credits
FY09
34,216  MWh
Facilities with  
ISO 14001  
Certification
50  of our facilities have  
an ISO 14001 certification.the commercially available 
fuel-saving strategies, and are actively evaluating the latest emergent technologies.On-site Solar Energy  
Generation (MW)(1)
CY09 
3.92CY08 
1.5(1) Both graphs represent our 
progress toward our CY10 estimate of 5 MW, which will include our FedEx Express 
facility in Cologne, Germany, 
scheduled to come online during the second half of 2010. 
(2) A score of 1.25 represents 
outstanding environmental performance. The most 
common partner score is 
0.75, which represents good environmental performance. These EPA SmartWay partners already are utilizing most of Our five solar facilities will reduce our 
annual CO2 emissions by a projected  
3,918 metric tons. That’s equivalent to:= 10,000 gallons  
    of gasoline
= 1,000 seedlings
440,754   
gallons of gasoline never burned†100,469   
tree seedlings growing for 10 years†
or
† Source: http://www.epa.gov/RDEE/energy-resources/calculator.html
EPA SmartWay Transport 
Partnership Environmental Performance Scores, FY09
(2)
FedEx  
Express
1.25FedEx  
Freight
1.25 FedEx  
Ground
0.7515
162,500  pound cargo capacity
3,900  nautical mile range171,000  pound cargo capacity
6,100  nautical mile rangeAs we replace much of our  
MD-11F fleet with wide-body 777F planes, we will not only be able to carry more cargo, but we’ll also be able to move cargo farther before refueling, reducing fuel consumption by 18 percent and improving our overall efficiency.
We’re also replacing our 727s with 
757s, which will cut greenhouse gas emissions and reduce fuel consumption by 47 percent.777F= 5,000 pounds
= 1,000 miles
MD-11F
Aircraft Emissions  
lbs/ATM(1) CO2(2)(3)
CY05
1.55
CY08
1.42(2) CO2 emission factors and 
associated conversion factors were 
calculated using the World Resources Institute and World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
(3) To better align our data reporting 
for this metric with other publicly available data, we moved our reporting period for this metric to a 
calendar year basis versus a fiscal 
year. Upon validation of the CY data, we discovered that we had previously under  reported our improvement due 
to an erroneous data field.  (1) Available ton mile (ATM) is 
defined as one ton of capacity (cargo) transported one mile.Environment & Efficiency 16
(Efficiencies and Emissions, continued from Page 13)
Adding these planes to our fleet reduces fuel consumption and  helps us advance our goals as a business.  
Our Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize strategy is transforming our 
fleet of FedEx Express delivery vehicles, pushing us to use less fuel, to upgrade existing vehicles and to develop innovative new 
technologies. Today, FedEx has seven different types of hybrid 
delivery trucks in operation, as well as the capability to retrofit conventional trucks with hybrid engines. FedEx Freight will test a truck powered by the zero-emission hydrogen/electric hybrid 
Tyrano
™ drive train. And FedEx Ground is testing hybrid hydraulic 
technology that seeks to improve fuel mileage by greater than  
50 percent and significantly reduce engine emissions. In total,  
our hybrid fleet has logged more than 5 million miles of service. 
Achieving environmental and economic sustainability requires more 
than just embracing new technologies. It also means making smart 
choices, matching the right vehicle with the right mission. For 
example, we constantly employ routing efficiencies to reduce the number of vehicles we need, and we’ve downsized vehicles that travel long distances in order to maximize fuel efficiency and lower 
greenhouse gases. And like most commercial delivery companies, 
we use diesel fuel for many of our trucks because it’s more efficient than other fossil fuels. We also give our customers the chance to make smart choices, giving them the option to calculate the carbon 
emissions associated with transportation of their FedEx shipments 
— providing customers with the information they desire, in order to report their emissions or purchase carbon offsets through their own preferred organizations.Forest Stewardship Council Certification
Meeting the demands of FedEx Office customers means that  we purchase a lot of paper. We try to make the right choices  when we do that.
The world’s forests play a critical role in supporting biodiversity, 
maintaining water quality, moderating the planet’s climate and 
sustaining diverse economic, social and indigenous cultural 
traditions. We also recognize that the long-term health of our business is directly connected to the health of the planet and  local communities.
This is why FedEx, through its FedEx Office locations, has set 
industry-leading standards for purchasing products that come from environmentally responsible suppliers. One example of this effort is 
our choice to buy most of the paper we use in our printing centers 
from suppliers certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The widely recognized FSC certification represents responsible forest stewardship and applies to products obtained from well-
managed forests. (See “Sichuan Province Recovery” on Page 20 
for another example of our contribution to reforestation efforts.)
Not only are we making better choices when we buy paper, but 
we’re also looking at how to reduce paper usage altogether. Our 
programs will help our operations minimize environmental impacts as well as promote digital alternatives and recycled products and fibers that don’t come from our forests.
Waste Streams Packaging Fiber
waste streams
pack
aging fiberwaste streams
pack aging fiberRecycling (Millions of Pounds)
FY09 
43.9virgin fiber 
30%recycled fiber
70%non-hazardous
77.6%hazardous
0.6%universal
0.1%
recycled
21.7%FY08 
17.6FY09 
75%FedEx Office Paper SKUs  
With Recycled Content17
FedEx and EMBARQ will 
help Mexico transform its 
transportation network.
An important component of our global citizenship is to 
channel our outreach investments toward organizations that tackle issues FedEx is uniquely capable of helping 
to solve. Giving is critical to all organizations, and we 
continue to make significant contributions to many. But we know that when we apply our core logistics capabilities, we can make a meaningful difference in 
people’s lives.
For example, FedEx is collaborating with EMBARQ, 
an organization that helps cities build transportation 
networks that are safe, efficient and convenient, enabling 
more people to use public transit. This investment is a key focus of our EarthSmart Outreach program.
Starting in 2002, EMBARQ’s Center for Sustainable 
Transport in Mexico spearheaded the creation of a bus rapid transit (BRT) corridor through the heart of Mexico City. BRT lines essentially enable buses to act like trains, picking up passengers at special stations and moving 
them along specific corridors. The system achieves the 
benefits of rail without the huge capital investments that building new rail lines requires. Today, the system 
carries 450,000 riders daily, and is responsible not only 
for taking cars off the road but also for eliminating 80,000 tons of CO
2 per year.
But the benefits of this work are not limited to reducing 
pollution. EMBARQ also focuses on improving the 
quality and cost-effectiveness of urban transport so that more people have affordable access to their local economies. EMBARQ’s projects improve public health, 
traffic safety and the quality of public spaces. When 
cities become healthier and more accessible, they become more competitive and attractive to businesses.EMBARQ and FedEx share a fundamental understanding: Transportation has a deep impact on people’s lives. As 
our relationship with EMBARQ progresses, we hope 
to make that impact more meaningful and lasting by providing consultation, technical advice and project planning with local, state and federal governments. We 
also hope that our team members, many of whom live 
in the same communities EMBARQ is helping, will be able to help optimize traffic patterns, minimize energy consumption and reduce emissions.
Lending our expertise to organizations that have 
common goals is nothing new for FedEx. In fact, for  over 10 years now we’ve been using our years of experience on the road to promote pedestrian safety 
around the world through our relationship with Safe  
Kids Worldwide.
Every day, thousands of delivery vehicles are on the 
road, sharing the streets with pedestrians. This is why 
we’ve worked with Safe Kids to create Safe Kids Walk This Way — a program designed to make the world safer 
for child pedestrians. The program was instrumental in 
helping bring concepts like school zones and crosswalks to China, and since 2000 has been implemented in more than 5,000 schools in Brazil, Canada, China, India, the Philippines, South Korea, the United States and Vietnam.
As FedEx expands into new areas around the world,  
our team members bring their unique skills and capabilities with them. Programs like Safe Kids and 
EMBARQ show how FedEx uses all of its assets to  
help communities prosper.Countries participating in  
the EMBARQ programCountries participating in the Safe Kids Walk This Way program18
2009200920022000Community & Disaster Relief
FedEx works to apply its skills and knowledge 
— particularly our deep understanding of transportation and logistics — to programs  that make a positive difference for communities around the world. Two examples: EMBARQ, which helps cities build better transportation networks, and Safe Kids Walk This Way, which works to make streets safer for child pedestrians. With the help of FedEx and other organizations, both programs are growing.
1234567891019
Charitable Giving
(Cash and In-kind Giving  As % of Pre-tax Profits)
(1)
FY09
1.5%
FY08 
1.1%Mobile Response and 
Disaster Management Units
Working in collaboration with The 
Salvation Army, the American 
Red Cross and the International 
Federation of Red Cross and  
Red Crescent Societies, we’ve 
helped support
12 mobile response and 
disaster management units in  
7 countries, including  
Mexico, Australia and the U.K. Heart to Heart International
CY09
Assisted172   
organizations  
with the shipping of 107  
tons of relief goods.
CY08
Assisted 242   
organizations 
with the shipping of 173  
tons of relief goods.  American Red Cross
FedEx is a founding member 
of the American Red Cross 
Annual Disaster Giving 
Program, and currently 
provides approximately 
$1,200,000  
annually in cash and in-kind 
transportation support.Charitable Shipping
Each year, we set aside 
space for
4,000,000
pounds of charitable 
shipping.Preparedness
Our contingency planning, logistics and 
warehousing experience, as well as our  
corps of volunteers, allow us to help non-
governmental organizations, such as the Red 
Cross, The Salvation Army and Heart to Heart 
International, prepare communities for disaster.
Our Disaster 
Relief Strategy Relief
We tap into our core capabilities — 
transportation and logistics —  
moving relief materials to locations 
around the world in times of need.Recovery
Our unique ability to connect 
people with goods, ideas and 
each other helps form linkages 
among relief organizations, 
businesses and communities 
when it’s time for disaster-
stricken regions to begin the 
process of rebuilding.
(1) Results exclude the effect 
of the previously described 
impairment charges.Sichuan Province Recovery
Serving more than 220 countries and territories has helped us  
to understand that the same fast and flexible networks we use to 
connect people with economic opportunity also make us uniquely 
capable to help communities prepare for, withstand and recover 
from disasters. But our responsibility as a global corporate citizen doesn’t begin and end with disaster preparedness and relief. We have opportunities to help communities prosper. After all, our team 
members and customers work and live there.
For example, our work in Japan and Canada has helped communities 
revive agriculture and replace forests destroyed by natural disasters. 
Another recent example is the work we’ve begun with Conservation 
International in China.
In May 2008, a massive earthquake devastated China’s Sichuan 
Province. Through our distribution and team member networks  
in the country, FedEx was able to help provide immediate support  
and much needed relief to the people of the region. However, our 
experience with similar disaster relief efforts taught us that the province needed much more than post-disaster relief. They needed help restoring the region — a project that requires long-term 
commitment and expertise.
Our work with Conservation International — an organization that 
safeguards valuable species, preserves important landscapes and 
supports communities that rely on the earth’s natural resources —  
is an example of our overall disaster preparedness, relief and 
recovery strategy (illustrated on Page 19). Today, we’re investing in 10 community-led reforestation projects  
in Sichuan Province. These projects will help the local communities 
rebuild an ecosystem badly damaged by the earthquake, protect 
important sources of fresh water, decrease atmospheric carbon  
and increase the survival rate of the endangered giant panda.
FedEx also plans to work with Conservation International to educate 
team members and students about the value of conservation and reforestation in the region. This work is part of a greater $2 million commitment to fund projects around the globe that expand our 
company’s efforts to make the communities where our team 
members live and work more sustainable.
Volunteerism
FedEx team members belong to the communities they serve. They have a valuable perspective on the needs of those communities, and they have unique skills and capabilities. When their perspectives and 
skills intersect, our team members can help communities solve big 
problems. This is why FedEx is developing an enterprise-wide strat -
egy that takes a comprehensive approach to creating the policies, programs and infrastructure necessary to do this.
The first step in enacting this volunteer strategy, though, begins by 
taking a closer look at our team members’ current efforts, which we’re doing with a new volunteer management system. Powered by 
VolunteerMatch, our new platform helps us engage team members 
in volunteer opportunities around the world. The system tracks vol -
unteering rates, hours and locations, and it lets team members share experiences through social media platforms. Our event coordinators 
can manage volunteer opportunities. Team members can create and 
promote volunteer events and manage event sign-ups and wait lists.
Launched in September 2009, the volunteer management system 
coincided with the United Way giving campaign and FedEx Cares 
Week, an annual event in which FedEx volunteers around the world 
donate their time and talents to serving local organizations. In 2009, FedEx team members in 38 countries volunteered more than 20,000 hours of their time during FedEx Cares Week alone.
Our team members have always made a difference in our communi -
ties. The support we provide them reflects our people-first spirit. 
As our strategy progresses and a more detailed picture of our team members’ volunteerism emerges, we will be able to do more than 
support those efforts. We will be able to expand and enhance the 
important work they do.Community & Disaster Relief 20
Safe Kids Walk This Way — 
FedEx VolunteersVolunteer Hours
Tracking Goal
100%
We have implemented a system 
to track volunteer hours, which is 
housed on fedexcares.com.
2000
8162009
15,000
Cumulative number of  
volunteers since 2000.For many companies, 2009 was a tough year. FedEx 
was no exception. But we’ve learned we can emerge from difficult periods as a stronger company, if we 
take the necessary steps.
When it became clear that the economic downturn 
was going to be significant and prolonged, FedEx  
took steps to trim operating costs while minimizing 
the loss of jobs. We cut discretionary spending company-wide, reduced labor hours, eliminated merit-based salary increases for 2009, suspended 
401(k) company-matching contributions and cut  
our marketing and advertising budget by 35 percent. Salaries of exempt employees were reduced incre -
mentally up to the 20 percent reduction taken by 
Frederick W. Smith, our chairman, president and CEO.
In total, these actions — along with optimization in 
our operations — helped us cut expenses by more than $2 billion for all of fiscal 2009, protecting our 
business and minimizing the loss of jobs.
There may be no better evidence of our company’s 
resilience than how strong our team members’ spirit 
remained during this difficult economic period. 
Despite the sacrifices we’ve all had to make, the service our team members gave our customers consistently lived up to what we call the Purple 
Promise — to make every FedEx experience 
outstanding. In 2009 our employee engagement participation rates remained at an exceptionally  high level, essentially unmoved from the previous 
year (see graph above).But engagement scores are only one way to look at 
our team members. When we improve the efficiency of our planes, trucks and facilities, it reflects the 
imagination and hard work of our team members. 
When we participate in disaster relief programs, our team members not only offer their time, they volunteer their expertise to help solve problems.  
Our team members share the stories of how they 
bring that FedEx spirit to life — both in our business and in the community — in a campaign called  “I Am FedEx.”
As we move beyond the worst of the global financial 
crisis and continue to provide Access to the world, our company, at its heart, is about people — the 
people we serve and our team members who serve 
them. Our culture of volunteerism is a hallmark of what makes FedEx a great place to work. This is why we’ve recently committed to instituting some new internal programs that support and advance our team 
members’ ability to contribute their skills to increase 
the sustainability of our business — and our world.
One such program is our new volunteer management 
system, which will help us connect team members to 
volunteer opportunities, better empower volunteers at the local level, help event coordinators more easily manage events and allow team members to 
share their experiences and tell their stories (see 
Page 20). Another program is EarthSmart @ Work, which will enable team members to make significant contributions to the environmental sustainability of 
our business.FY09 
Employee  
Engagement(1) 
93.1%FY08
Employee  
Engagement(1) 
93.4%21
(1) Percent of eligible global employees who participate in annual feedback surveysOur goal as a company is to do 
as much for our people as they 
do to meet the expectations of 
our customers, shareowners and 
communities, every day.22 People & Workplace23
EarthSmart @ Work
At FedEx, we know that connecting the world in responsible and 
resourceful ways would be impossible without the energy and creativity of our team members. In fact, our ability to create and enact an enterprise-wide program like EarthSmart
SM (see Page 4) 
could only begin with our people.
We are in the beginning phases of EarthSmart @ Work — one  
of EarthSmart’s three components — which will continuously  
tap into and renew the spirit of innovation that lives within our  
team members.
EarthSmart @ Work is designed to educate FedEx team members 
about our company’s sustainability efforts — and to engage them 
in evolving those efforts. Through a series of existing policies and 
procedures, as well as activation and information-sharing programs, team members can contribute to making our workplace and business more sustainable, economically and environmentally. 
We divide the EarthSmart @ Work system into three distinct areas: 
Inform, Involve and Innovate.
Inform
Informing our team members is a critical component of  
EarthSmart @ Work. Continuously sharing new information and  best practices internally will enable our team members to generate 
and submit new ideas that will help our company achieve its 
strategic goals and make the workplace more sustainable. We’ll  use social media tools to share information. We’ll work to learn from and harness the skills and perspectives that are unique to each of  
our operating companies and regions. Training programs and a 
database of EarthSmart projects will make our efforts transparent to all team members.
Involve
Through the use of forums, discussion groups and formal feedback 
opportunities, our team members will be able to communicate their 
ideas, share stories and learn from each other, becoming more involved in our sustainability efforts. We are also creating strategic volunteering opportunities — chances for our team members to be involved in the community, applying their unique skills and 
capabilities with organizations that need them.
Innovate
We also plan to capture our team members’ EarthSmart ideas, 
using a formal submission process built around specific para-meters. These ideas will then be reviewed against our company’s 
strategic goals and, if accepted, will be implemented by the 
appropriate business unit or operating company. Our hope is that by involving our team members and sharing information across all levels of the company, we will create a system that continuously 
generates new, sustainable solutions that move our company and 
our industry forward.
FY09 
91.5%
FY08 
93.1%Full-time U.S. Retention Rate
We’ve been listed on  
FORTUNE  Magazine’s “100 Best 
Companies to Work For” 
for12 of the past13  years,  
and are on the 2010 list.Total Corporate Spending:  
Minority, Women-owned  and Small Businesses
CY08
$3.1 billion
CY07
$2.8 billionGlobal Team Members
FY09
280,000
FY08
290,000United States Workforce Ethnicity
White
57.2%
Black or  
African-American
25.4%
Hispanic or  
Latino
12.0%Asian
3.5%
Native Hawaiian  
or Pacific Islander
0.2%
American Indian  
or Alaskan Native
0.7%Two or More  
Races
1.0%People & Workplace 24
U.S. Ethnic Minorities in 
Management Roles(1)
FY09
27.0%Women in the  Global Workforce
(1)
FY09 
27.5%
Women in  Management  Roles Globally
(1)
FY09(1) 
21.7%% Small-business Spending, CY08 % Small-business Spending, CY07
minority-owned
5.31%minority-owned
7.2%
women-owned
6.36%women-owned
6.4%
other small  
business
88.33%other small  
business
86.4%Quality-Driven Management 
(QDM) Teams
Purple Promise 
Chairman’s AwardEarthSmart @ Work
FedEx Cares WeekRemote Rep  
(Flexible Schedule)
Citizenship Blog 
CommentsVirtual Town HallEmployee Engagement  
and Feedback Programs
Engaging our team members 
and soliciting their ideas have always been an important part of our culture; it didn’t just begin with EarthSmart @ Work. In fact, throughout our company’s history, we’ve made a point of valuing our team members’ contributions, insights, performance and spirit. This graphic represents a collection of some of our most important and effective team member-focused programs.
(1) We remain focused on 
increasing the percentage of women and minorities in the workforce and management.25
Access 2,5,7-8, 
 10,21,26
Access Index 7-8
Aircraft Fleet 13,15
Alternative Energy 10,13,14,16
American Red Cross 19
Annual Report 26
Awards and Recognitions 26
Best Companies to Work For 23,26
Board of Directors 26
Boeing 12-13,15
Bus Rapid Transit 17
Charitable Giving 6,19
Charitable Shipping 19
Code of Business Conduct  
and Ethics 26
Cologne, Germany 12-14
Community & Disaster Relief 17-20
Conservation International 20
Contact Information Back Cover
Corporate Governance 26
Disaster Management Units 19
Disaster Relief and  
Preparedness 19
Diversity  23-24,26
Diversity Councils and Alliances 26
Earnings per Share 5
EarthSmartSM 2-4,8,12-13,  
 17,21,23-24  
EarthSmart Outreach 4,17 
EarthSmart Solutions  4,12 
EarthSmart @ Work 4,21,23-24
Economics & Access 7-10
Economics 2,5,7-10
Economy 8,10
EMBARQ  2,17-18
Emissions 12-17 
Aircraft Emissions 5,13,15 
CO2 Emissions Equivalents 14 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 13,15-16 
Reduction Efforts 5,11-16 
Scope I 13 
Scope II 13 
Scope III 13 
Utilities Emissions 5 
Vehicle Emissions 4-5,13,16
Employee and Team Member 
Engagement 6,21,23-24
Environmental Defense Fund 11
Environmental Performance Index 8
Environmental Sustainability Index 7Environment & Efficiency 11-16
EPA SmartWay 14
Esty Environmental Partners 4
Ethnicity 23-24
Facilities Energy Consumption 5,12-14
Facilities Innovations 13-14
FedEx Cares Week 20,24
FedEx Express 13-14,16
FedEx Freight 13-14,16
FedEx Ground 13-14,16
FedEx Office 16,19,26
Feedback and Dialogue 6,21,23-24
Financial Highlights 5-6
Fontana, California 13
Forest Stewardship Council 16
FORTUNE  23,26
Forward-looking Statements 26
Fuel Costs 13
Fuel Efficiency 5,16
Fuel Sense 13
Giving 6,17,19-20
Green Industries Trade Mission 9-10
Guadalajara International Airport 10
Guangzhou, China 10
Health and Safety 17,26
Heart to Heart International 19
Hybrids 2,4,12- 
 13,16
Independent Contractors 13,23
ISO 14001 14
Message From the Chairman  2
Mexico City, Mexico 17
Minority 6,23-24
Mobile Response Units 19
Modec 3-4,12
Oakland, California 13
Operating Margin 5
Packaging 16
Paper  16
People & Workplace 21-24
Practical Environmentalism 13
Purple Promise 21,24
Recycling 16
Red Crescent 19
Red Cross 19
Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize 13,16
Renewable Energy 5,10,13-14
Report Highlights 5-6
Retention 6,23
Revenue  5
Safe Kids Worldwide 17-18,20Salary Reductions 21
Salvation Army 19
Sichuan Province, China 20
Small-business Spending 23-24
Smith, Frederick W. 2,21
Solar Energy 5,12-14
SRI International 7-8
Supplier Diversity 23-24
Trade Missions 9-10
TyranoTM 16
U.S. Commercial Service 10
U.S. Department of Commerce 10
U.S. Environmental  
Protection Agency 14,26
United Way 20
Values 26
Vehicles  
Hybrid 2,4,12- 
 13,16  
Electric  4,12-13,16  
Hydraulic 12,16 
Hydrogen Fuel Cell 12,16
Volunteerism  20-21
VolunteerMatch 20
Waste 16
Water  16,19
Whittier, California 13
Women 6,23-24
Woodbridge, New Jersey 12-13
World Economic Forum 8
Yale Center for Environmental  
Law & Policy 2,7-8Report Index26
References
Access  
http://access.fedex.com
Annual Report     
http://ir.fedex.com
Board of Directors  
http://ir.fedex.com/committees.cfm
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
http://ir.fedex.com/downloads/code.pdf
Corporate Governance
http://www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations/corpgov/
Diversity Councils and Alliances
http://csr.fedex.com
Global Citizenship Report
http://csr.fedex.com
Values
http://www.fedex.com/us/about/today/mission.htmlForward-looking Statements
Certain statements in this report may be considered 
forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management’s views with respect to future 
events and financial performance. These statements 
are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed 
or implied by the statements. Potential risks and 
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, new U.S. domestic or international government 
regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities 
or international conflicts, and other factors that can be found in our press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Some of Our Awards  
and Recognitions in 2009
Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America
Boston College-Reputation Institute  
2009 CSR Index Top 10 Ranking
Newsweek  Greenest Companies Ranking Top 100
EPA Green Power Partnership Printer’s List  
No. 1 Ranking
Green Grades Office Supply Report Card’s  
Top Ranking
Flight Safety Foundation’s Honeywell Bendix  
Trophy for Aviation Safety
2009 W3 Awards’ Gold Award in the business  
category for our Citizenship Blog at blog.fedex.comFORTUNE  Magazine’s “100 Best Companies  
to Work For”Strategy + Design by Unboundary, Inc. Atlanta, GA | Printing by CenveoFedEx Corporation
 
942 South Shady Grove Road
Memphis, TN  USA  38120
citizenship@fedex.com
© 2010 FedEx CorporationThis 8.5” x 8.5” report fits the same amount 
of content as the standard 8.5” x 11” while reducing the amount of natural resources used as each press sheet accommodates a layout of 24 
pages per press form instead of the standard 16.
All the paper utilized in the production of this  
book contains 100% pulp derived from post-consumer recycled fiber and was created with wind-generated electricity. This paper is also certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, 
which promotes environmentally appropriate, 
socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world’s forests.
REAlIzED sAVInGs:
9,992 gal wastewater flow saved
15,014,400 BTUs energy not consumed2,245 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented1,163 lbs air emissions not generated1.1 barrels crude oil unused