1
Taking Action
Towards a   
Brighter Future
2021
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIAL  AND
GOVERNANCE REPORTContentsTABLE OF CONTENTS
2301
02
03
04
05
06
07Introduction 
Assembly Row
Addressing Climate Change
Community Impact  
Our T eam
Governance
Appendix2021 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORTFederal Facts
2021 Accomplishments
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
About this Report
A Message from our CEO
GRI  2-1  2-2  2-3  2-6  2-7  2-22Introduction
IN THIS SECTION
45
“Never do we consider ESG  
a checklist – here, it’s simply 
good business.”  
RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact –DON  WOOD  /  CEO
WILDWOOD SHOPPING CENTER   /  BETHESDA, MD07 / Appendix employees (55%    
 women/45% men)
years average tenure
of employees
All information as of December 31, 2021Federal is a recognized leader 
in the ownership, operation, and 
redevelopment of high-quality retail-
based properties located primarily 
in major coastal markets from 
Washington, D.C. to Boston, as well 
as San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Founded in 1962, our mission is 
to deliver long-term, sustainable 
growth through investing in 
communities where retail demand 
exceeds supply.  Our expertise 
ranges from small neighborhood 
shopping centers to urban, mixed-
use neighborhoods and everything 
in between. 
Our mission is supported by 
the environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) principles that 
we use to manage all aspects of 
our investments from concept to 
execution. We believe that ESG not 
only helps us be a better business 
but it is our business. Federal Facts
SILICON VALLEYBOSTON
NEW YORK
PHILADELPHIA
WASHINGTON D.C.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
MIAMI
PHOENIXCHICAGO
 310
 8.7
67properties
years of average 
ownership square feet of  
 commercial space  residential units
SILICON VALLEYBOSTON
NEW YORK
PHILADELPHIA
WASHINGTON D.C.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
MIAMI
PHOENIXCHICAGO
104
22 3,369
25 m01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / Appendix2021 
Accomplishments
$2.3 billion projected to be 
invested in LEED certified 
buildings completed and 
under construction
Green Lease Leader Gold
since 2018Achieved LEED 
Gold certification 
at One Cocowalk
Best Places to Work Globe 
Street Real Estate ForumScope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions 
Reduction since 201939%Committed to achieve 
Net Zero by 2050Net Zero
Assembly Row  
2022 Best New Commercial 
Development in BostonAchieved GRESB  
4 Star Rating
89United Nations 
Sustainable 
Development Goals
Federal’s ESG efforts are guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (UNSDGs).  We have focused our efforts on the specific UNSDGs where 
our business can have the most impact, and our employees advance these goals 
through the valuable work we do every day.
This report is the primary way in 
which we convey to our stakeholders 
our commitment and approach 
to environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) matters; it also 
supplements information included in 
our Annual Report/Form 10-K and our 
Proxy Statement, both of which are 
available on our website.  About This Report 
We have aligned this report with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and 
are providing additional disclosures 
in alignment with the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
and the T askforce on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixA Message 
from our CEO
At Federal, ESG is embedded 
into every action and starts from 
the ground up.  From investing 
and developing our properties to inspiring our communities and employees, ESG is an essential part 
of our commitment to long-term 
growth and value creation.  Never  do we consider ESG a checklist – 
here, it’s simply good business. 
We know from experience that taking a long-
term view of growth requires that we develop and maintain a deep connection to the people, becoming a part of the fabric of the communities we support. It means creating places that meet the specific needs of surrounding neighborhoods – and continuing to reinvent those places over decades as those needs evolve. It means thinking about sustainable design long before the first blueprint is drawn up and constantly looking for innovative ways to conserve resources and minimize the environmental footprint of our properties. Finally, it means investing in the most precious resource of all – our people – and ensuring we attract and retain the best talent by creating a culture that values communication  and collaboration.   
Our holistic approach to ESG began long before 
the term was recognized. As far back as the 1990s, we were redeveloping our properties to include outdoor gathering places and using those areas to host community events.  In 2008, we established a GreenBox™ standard for building out tenant spaces in a way that minimized environmental impact. In 2010, we were one of the first real estate companies to invest in installing rooftop solar.  In 2012, we earned our first LEED certification and now are approaching $2.3 billion dollars invested in LEED buildings.  Through these and other actions, we continue to strengthen our alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as we work to support broader societal objectives associated with our core business.
It would be an understatement to say that the last 
two years have challenged all of us in ways that we could not have imagined as we entered a new decade. I firmly believe that our ability to navigate through these unprecedented times is a testament to the inherent sustainability and resilience of our company. T oday, we remain focused on our growth strategy and positioning our business for future success, including enhancing the resilience of our portfolio and focusing on the transition to a low 
carbon economy over the short and long term.
Key to this success is our unwavering commitment 
to investing in our communities and people. As you look across our portfolio today, you can see the elements of this ESG strategy and objectives come to life in so many of our properties, none more so than Assembly Row in Somerville, Massachusetts. This vibrant property touches on everything that is encompassed in the term ESG.  It has transformed and uplifted the local community in every sense and reflects not only how we invest–but why we invest.  Ultimately, we believe that good financial investments can also serve a greater societal good. 
On the following pages, I invite you to learn more 
about Assembly Row and our broader ESG  initiatives that are underpinned by more than six decades of proven history in delivering results. This includes 54 years of consecutive dividend increases –the single longest annual dividend growth record
among all REIT s.
T o our Federal family of more than 300 employees, 
thank you for the incredible work you do to uphold our values and keep ESG at the heart of our mission. T o all of our stakeholders, I thank you for your ongoing support, and look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress as we continue to work together to create sustainable growth for many  more years to come.
–DON WOOD
Chief Executive Officer
1011
 *4Q annualized dividend per share54 consecutive 
years of increased dividends.
ESG in the words 
of our CEO
1967 2021$4.28*
$0.12*
54 YEAR CAGR 7% 01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixGRI  2-29  304-1  304-2  413-1Assembly Row
T ransformation of Assembly Row
Restoring Natural Resources
Improving Access and T ransportation
Sustainable Economic Impact
Connecting the Community
Championing Sustainable Design and Development
Showcasing Local ArtIN THIS SECTION
1213
Assembly Row–where ESG meets 
good business for the benefit of 
all stakeholders
RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact
ASSEMBL Y ROW  /  SOMERVILLE, MA07 / AppendixHighly contaminated from decades of use for 
multiple industrial purposes, the site was unable to economically contribute to the community and the Mystic River was unusable after years of contamination from untreated sewage spilling into the river.
Significant investment in on-site environmental 
remediation, clean-up of the Mystic River, and improved infrastructure provided the foundation for rejuvenation of the site and local marine species.The site was an unproductive, underutilized, environmentally contaminated former industrial site in an urban renewal district with no clear path for a productive future.
Assembly Row is an economically productive 
neighborhood with its own T-stop that includes retailers, restaurants, apartments, condominiums, office and a hotel, and is the largest generator of real estate tax revenue in the City of Somerville.
No public transit access and limited road access hindered economic development of the site.
Collaboration with all levels of government and the 
transit authority led to:
- First new T-stop in nearly 30 years
- New road infrastructure for better connection to  
the City of Somerville
- Creation of transportation management  
association to promote sustainable transportation 
solutions to reduce traffic and enhance the quality 
of life, accessibility and economic vitality of the 
greater Assembly Square area.
2005
2005
TODAY2005TODAY
TODAY
Transformation
of Assembly Row
Restoring 
Natural 
ResourcesImproving Access  
and Transportation
Assembly Row2005
1415
“If you had traveled in time from 10 years ago 
and arrived in Assembly today, you would not 
believe your eyes. I have long believed that in 
bringing people together, we can drive real 
and sustainable change  - and that is exactly 
what Assembly Row has done for our City of 
Somerville. Through tremendous community 
partnership, Federal Realty Investment Trust 
has created an economic growth engine, 
elevating the quality of life for our people, 
while still maintaining a neighborhood feel that 
is uniquely Somerville.  The positive impact 
of Assembly Row has been nothing short of 
transformative and will continue to be felt by 
many generations of local residents to come. ” 
Joseph A. Curtatone
Mayor of Somerville 2004-2022”
Improving Access  
and Transportation
Assembly RowToday01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixThe transformation of Assembly 
Row into an economic engine 
for the City of Somerville has 
positively benefited state and 
local government, the residents of 
Somerville and our shareholders 
and will have lasting positive 
impacts for decades to come.  
Doing the right things to support 
environmental and social initiatives 
can be a smart and profitable 
financial investment.
Assembly is poised to become the 
newest cluster in Greater Boston’s 
thriving life sciences hub with more 
than $1 billion in investment currently 
planned within the 1-mile area 
around Assembly Row.CURRENT FULL AND PART-TIME JOBS
ANNUAL PROPERTY TAX REVENUE GENERATAED
TOTAL PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INVESTMENTSustainable 
Economic Impact
Assembly RowTO DAY 2005
AVERAGE HH INCOME
AVERAGE HOME VALUE
POPULATION
White
Minority$86,000
$307,000
71%
29%$129,000
$834,000
58%
42%AFFORDABLE HOUSING INVESTMENT
$55M
15K
$16M
$1.6B
The Future
Demographics within 3-mile radius based 
on ESRI (2005) and PopStats (T oday)
1617
 Assembly RowASSEMBL Y ROW  /  SOMERVILLE, MA01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixASSEMBL Y ROW  /  SOMERVILLE, MA
Assembly  Row1819
SPOTLIGHTAssembly is more than the sum of its parts. Its 
many outdoor living room spaces and more 
than 100 events annually make it a community 
gathering place where people can relax and 
recharge. The bike paths, playground and 
amphitheater of the renovated Baxter Park along 
the Mystic River provide a range of health and 
well-being activities such as yoga in the park, live 
concerts, outdoor movies, co-ed recreational 
sports, craft fairs and boating.The annual Riverfest event draws more than 10,000 visitors 
annually to Baxter Park for live music, family-friendly 
activities and fireworks over the Mystic River.
The Buzz on 
Assembly’s Smallest 
Residents
The property is home to two colonies of Italian 
honeybees. Located on a green roof of The Row 
Hotel, the harvested honey is incorporated into 
the hotel’s menu, while the beehives serve as 
data points that contribute to scientific research 
that will improve the health and safety of bees 
nationwide.At Assembly, we prioritize energy efficient 
design, incorporate green and white roofs, use 
recycled and regionally sourced materials, reuse 
materials where possible, and benefit from local 
labor. All of our fully owned mixed-use buildings 
have achieved or are expected to achieve on 
completion LEED Gold certification.
We also focus on sustainable design in the 
buildout of tenant spaces by working with our 
tenants to implement our Green Box standards 
which provide a path to minimizing environmental 
impacts. Several of our tenants have been 
recognized with LEED certifications for the 
buildout of their stores with one tenant achieving 
a LEED Platinum certification.
Connecting
the Community
Championing
Sustainable
Design and
Development
Assembly  Row01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / Appendix“The Conversation, ” a six-story-high LED canvas designed to host 
changeable artwork, serves as a platform where artistic presence 
and vision can be seen and realized at an entirely new scale in the 
city of Somerville.With temporary and permanent 
art installations, art fairs, walking 
tours and exhibitions throughout 
the property, Assembly showcases 
the wealth of talented artists and 
makers that call Somerville home. Showcasing 
Local Art
Flower sculptures transformed areas under 
construction into an art playground. The work was 
designed and fabricated by the 3D Design Studio 
at Artists For Humanity (AFH), an organization that 
provides under-resourced urban youth with the 
keys to self-sufficiency through paid employment 
in art and design. At AFH, teens and artist/designer 
mentors work collaboratively on commissioned jobs.SPOTLIGHT
Turning Construction 
into Public Art
Assembly Row
2021ArtAssembled is an art space project created in partnership with 
the Somerville Arts Festival that fosters an on-site community of 
visual and performing artists.
“The Dreamer, ” by renowned street artist Marka27, depicts a young girl reaching for nature 
as a reminder to stay young at heart while the collage elements are an ode to the diversity 
found at Assembly Row. 
Assembly Row
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / Appendix Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Energy Efficiency
 Sustainable Investments
 Biodiversity
Water
Waste
TCFDAddressing  
Climate Change
IN THIS SECTION
GRI  2-22  201-2  302-1  302-2  302-3  302-4  
303-5  304-1  304-2  305-1  305-2  305-3  
305-5  306-3  306-4  306-5
2223
Addressing  
Climate ChangeFor our more than 60-year history, 
our business strategy for operating 
and investing in real estate has 
focused on preserving and improving 
the value and resiliency of our assets 
over the long -term.
RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance
AZALEA  /  SOUTH GATE, CA03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixThese are stable operating assets that we have 
owned and operated since at least 2019. These 
assets are included in our 2019 baseline for 
our GHG emissions and energy use reduction 
targets.  Operating assets that have been sold 
have been removed from the 2019 baseline.These are stable operating assets that were 
acquired in 2019 or later and not included in our 
2019 baseline.THE SHOPS AT HIL TON VILLAGE   /  SCOTTSDALE, AZ
DELWYN APARTMENTS   /  BALA CYNWYD, PA
These are entire properties or portions of 
properties that have been newly delivered or 
were undergoing significant redevelopment and 
not included in our 2019 baseline.
Operating AssetsAcquisitions
DevelopmentsGreenhouse 
Gas Emissions &
Energy Efficiency
T o help us actively manage our total 
GHG emissions and our energy 
usage, we have divided our assets 
into different categories that require 
different management strategies. 
These categories also help keep us 
laser focused on the totality of our 
emissions and energy usage and on 
year-over-year performance without 
regard to operational anomalies.
GAITHERSBURG SQUARE   /  GAITHERSBURG, MD
2425Stable operating
assets• Utilize GreenBox™ requirements to build 
   tenant spaces
• Provide tenants with sustainable design  
   and construction guidelines
• Include on-site renewables
• Procure green power
• Utilize LED lighting
• Install smart thermostats
• T rack historic energy usage and GHG data
• Include energy and GHG efficiency measures    
   in operating and capital budgets
• Design and build to maximize energy efficiency
• Pursue LEED or other certifications
• Evaluate embodied carbon of materials
*Solar renewable energy credits are sold in some casesOperating Assets Aquisitions DevelopmentsManagement Strategies to Reduce Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
of electricity used by Federal 
supplied from solar* or other 
green sources in 202160%01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixGreenhouse  
Gas Emissions
We were able to achieve our Scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction 
target for our operating assets 
well ahead of schedule primarily 
because of our comprehensive 
green power procurement 
strategy. We actively enter into 
supply agreements to purchase 
our electricity from green power 
sources in every market where 
we are able to do so. In 2021 we 
added 19 properties into new 
green power supply agreements. 
Additionally, we saw improved 
power generation from our on-site 
solar and investments made by 
utility power providers in markets 
where we do business to add more 
renewables on their grids. 
We anticipate replacing these GHG 
emissions reduction goals with a 
commitment to set Science Based 
T argets by the end of 2022. We 
have also committed to achieve net 
zero for our Scope 1 & 2 emissions 
by 2050.Operating Assets
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions*
Scope 3 Emissions**19,974 MtCO2e
12,284 MtCO2e
136,946 MtCO2e
117,585 MtCO2e• Location Based
• Market Based
• Location Based
• Market Based
*Scope 1 & 2 emissions do not include assets sold in 2021; for absolute metrics including assets disposed, please see GRI index   
**Scope 3 emissions are partially estimated, and only include  utility based emissions and do not include emissions associated with 
waste generation. See GRI Index for more detailed information on our estimation process. Emissions calculations for development/ 
redevelopment do not currently include construction related emissions (such as embodied carbon).19,974  MtCO2e
2019 Scope 1 & 2 
Location Based 
GHG EmissionsGrid 
ImprovementsSolar Power-3%
Like for Like Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions
30%GOAL:
reduction 
by 2025
39%RESUL T:
reduction 
achieved
2021 Emissions Information
2627Operating Assets Aquisitions Developments
19,974 MtCO2e
12,284 MtCO2e
136,946 MtCO2e
117,585 MtCO2e6,470 MtCO2e
6,330 MtCO2e9,802 MtCO2e
7,283 MtCO2e560 MtCO2e
521 MtCO2e2,932 MtCO2e
1,913 MtCO2e
*Scope 1 & 2 emissions do not include assets sold in 2021; for absolute metrics including assets disposed, please see GRI index   
**Scope 3 emissions are partially estimated, and only include  utility based emissions and do not include emissions associated with 
waste generation. See GRI Index for more detailed information on our estimation process. Emissions calculations for development/ 
redevelopment do not currently include construction related emissions (such as embodied carbon).2021 Scope 1 & 
2 Market Based 
GHG EmissionsGreen 
Power Supply 
AgreementsSolar Power-3%
-33%12,284 MtCO2e
Like for Like Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions
Helping to Manage T enant Emissions
Where we supply power directly to 
our tenants, more than half of that 
power comes from onsite solar and 
from our green power purchases.
When building a space, we provide 
our GreenBoxTM standard. Our 
GreenBoxTM standards were 
developed to ensure the fitout of 
tenant spaces is done in such a way 
that reduces their overall impact on 
the environment.OF ELECTRICITY SUPPLIED TO 
TENANTS WAS FROM SOLAR* OR 
OTHER GREEN SOURCES IN 202160%
*Solar renewable energy credits are sold in some cases.01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixEnergy Efficiency
Our primary focus in 2021 was to 
develop and begin implementation of 
a multi-year plan to update all of our 
landlord-controlled common area 
lighting to high-efficiency LEDs. At this 
point, 25% of our properties have been 
fully upgraded and an additional 64% 
are partially upgraded or in the process 
of being upgraded. This upgrade project 
is being funded through a special capital 
budget allocated by our CEO to ensure 
the completion of the upgrades as 
quickly as possible.
For our development and redevelopment 
projects, our teams are focused on 
energy efficient design and construction. 
Considerations for these projects include 
HVAC design, insulation and glazing 
choices, use of white or green roofs, 
utilizing only high-efficiency LED lighting, 
and requirements for tenants to design 
and build an energy-efficient space. The 
benefits of these design efforts will not be 
realized until the buildings are delivered 
and begin operating.THE AVENUE AT WHITE MARSH  /  BAL TIMORE, MD
2829Like for Like Landlord Controlled Electric Consumption
2019
2021Vacancy
VacancyCommon Area Usage
Common Area Usage2021 Electric Consumption
OutcomeOperating Assets Aquisitions Developments
LL Controlled Electric consumption 63,642 MWh 1,282 MWh 8,549 MWh
15%GOAL:
reduction 
by 2025
2%RESUL T:
reduction 
achieved
Through 2021, we saw a reduction 
in like for like common area electric 
consumption of 6%. We expect to see 
more significant reductions in future 
years as the benefits of our portfolio-
wide LED upgrade initiative are realized. 
Our overall reduction through 2021 was 
muted because we had a significant 
increase in inventory of landlord-
controlled electric consumption as a 
result of approximately 1 million square feet, on average, of additional vacancy 
in 2021 versus 2019. The electricity 
used in this additional vacancy offset 
the reductions we were able to 
achieve in our common areas.01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixOur first onsite solar arrays were
fully operational in 2012, and we
now have solar arrays on nearly
one-quarter of our properties with
more in process, all of which are
fully owned by Federal.Onsite 
Renewables
•  13.6 MW of on-site   
    capacity
•  Invested $37.7m
•  25 properties
•  Designed to produce   
    enough electricity to  
    power 1,200 homes  
    each year 
•  Highest generating   
    capacity of any other  
    publicly traded  
    shopping center REIT* 
   *Based on publicly available information as of 5/16/2022BRICK PLAZA  /  BRICK, NJ
  AT A GLANCE
3031
Throughout our portfolio, we are supporting the 
transition to a low carbon economy by  installing 
electric vehicle charging stations. We have nearly 
300 installed EV charging stations with more than 
50 in progress at our properties across the country.
  gallons of gasoline saved in 2021EV Charging Stations
550
70,000PIKE 7 PLAZA   /  VIENNA, VA01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact
metric tons avoided emissions in 202107 / AppendixWe understand that the decisions 
we make today can have impacts 
for decades to come, which is 
why sustainability concepts 
are embedded in all of our 
investments.  
Sustainability measures must be specifically 
identified for every investment of more than 
$1 million. For the acquisition of new operating 
assets, those considerations must include, at a 
minimum, climate-related risks and opportunities 
and potential energy efficiency and water 
conservation measures that should be factored 
into the capital plan for that asset.
For investments with construction activity, of 
any type, we apply general principles and a wide 
range of sustainability considerations.  Sustainable
Investments
1.
3.
4.
5.2.No greenfield 
development; 
prioritize urban 
revitalization
Prioritize energy and 
water efficiency as part 
of an integrative design 
process
T arget LEED Gold 
certification for 
all new office 
developments
T arget LEED or other 
certification on all new 
residential projectsUse GreenBox™ 
standards for tenant 
space design and 
buildoutGuiding Principles for 
Development
LEED CERTIFICATIONS
$2.3 5 billionmillion  
square feet
Projected investment and building 
size for projects that have achieved 
or are expected to achieve LEED 
certification.
3233
Our commitment to sustainable design and 
development principles has been verified by 
third- party certifications.Sustainability Considerations for 
Development & Redevelopment ActivitiesBuilding Certifications
•  Project-wide LED lighting
•  White or green roofs
•  On-site renewable energy
•  EV charging stations
•  Stormwater management
•  High-efficiency flush and flow fixtures
•  Walkability of property to and within site
•  Community gathering places
•  Health and wellness features
•  Biophilic design• Reuse of materials already on site
• Measure and reduce embodied carbon in materials
• Divert at least 75% of waste from landfill ENERGY & WATER  
 SOCIAL IMPACT MATERIALS  Nearly 80% of the approximately 4.4 million 
square feet we constructed and delivered 
over the past 10 years is LEED certified.
Numerous tenants have been recognized 
with Green Globes for their design and 
construction.1.2 million square feet of operating 
assets achieved certification as an IREM 
Certified Sustainable Property.
Green GlobesWe achieved Fitwell certification at our 
corporate headquarters.Guiding Principles for 
Development01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixWe believe that real estate 
investment and development should 
maintain a deep appreciation for the 
natural environment, and our on-site 
activities continue to work to protect 
local ecosystems.  
We have bee colonies at multiple properties that 
not only help repopulate local bee populations and 
provide fresh honey to people at the property, but 
also contribute to research for the long-term health  
of bees given their key role as pollinators.Our development activities take place exclusively 
on contaminated sites or on land that has already 
been developed.  That strategy ensures that we 
do not disturb natural habitats with our activities 
and instead enhance those natural habitats 
through many of the features incorporated into 
our projects.
Efforts at our properties around water 
conservation help to ensure sufficient fresh water.BEST BEESNO GREENFIELD DEVELOPMENT
WATER CONSERVATIONBiodiversity
3435Our renovation of Brick Plaza had to take 
into account the property’s direct waterway 
connection to New Jersey’s Barnegat Bay, a 
vital part of the local ecosystem. We addressed 
this connection by implementing 18 rain 
gardens across the property, each anchored by 
native and drought-tolerant plant material.  
These bioretention basins capture and filter 
stormwater runoff and associated pollutants 
before they flow into Barnegat Bay, and 
ultimately the Atlantic Ocean.  Brick Plaza 
now stands as a standard bearer for how 
progressive solutions can help protect the 
health of our environment and has become an 
educational field trip for students to learn about 
and see interactions within the local ecosystem.Brick Plaza
CASE STUDY
Use of native and drought tolerant landscaping at 
our properties  help local species thrive.
We support local efforts to protect biodiversity 
through the roof-top farms at some of our 
properties including the 17,000 square foot Farm 
at Pike & Rose which is the largest roof-top farm 
in the Mid-Atlantic.NATIVE LANDSCAPING
LOCAL FARMING
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixReal-time data monitoring, proactive 
maintenance, and water-efficient fixtures, 
controls, and landscaping in construction 
and design requirements are key strategies 
employed.
We have installed automatic meter readers 
at about 45% of our properties. These AMR’s 
read water consumption on 15-minute 
increments and immediately provide alerts 
when usage is above normal, so that leaks and 
other issues can be addressed quickly.Reducing our water consumption 
cuts water-related energy use and 
carbon emissions while reducing 
operating costs and improving the 
resilience of our properties.
The installation of automatic meter readers 
at Fairfax Junction, Virginia alerted us to an 
excessive amount of water usage flowing 
through that meter. We were able to quickly 
locate and repair the issue. We estimated that if 
that leak had continued throughout the typical 
billing cycle, we would have wasted nearly 
800,000 gallons of water.Fairfax
Junction
CASE STUDY
WaterTHE AVENUE AT WHITE MARSH  /  BAL TIMORE, MD
3637Our tenant construction team at San Antonio Center, Mountain 
View, CA partnered with Cambium Carbon to provide wood 
elements for tenant’s exterior design by using fallen redwood 
trees salvaged from Sacramento, CA.  The entire process from 
harvest to installation took place within a 150-mile radius.  The 
project funded the planting and maintenance for 3 years of 100 
native trees along the T oby Johnson Trail near where the fallen 
trees were originally sourced.
 
Federal Realty is the first US Real Estate Investment Trust to 
utilize Carbon Smart wood in a project. Carbon Smart wood 
is defined as wood that is sourced from fallen city trees, 
processed locally, and supports community tree planting.REUSE OF MATERIALSWe actively manage our waste streams by using 
right-sized equipment and coordinating with our 
tenants. In 2021, we estimate that we diverted 32% 
of the waste generated on our properties from the 
landfill. In 2022, we are beginning an audit process 
to assess our properties on a more granular level to 
further drive diversion rate improvements. Our focus on 
managing waste also includes recycling materials on 
our construction projects, hosting book and clothing 
bins for donations of used items, and collaborating with 
local restaurants to reduce food waste.Our commitment to reducing our 
environmental impact also extends 
to our activities to minimize waste 
across our operations.Waste
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixRiskCurrent Exposure (1)
Short T erm: 2020-2030
< 3% of total SF in very high risk areas
< 1% of POI in very high risk areas
No history of coastal flooding damage(3)
< 3% of total SF in very high risk areas
< 4% of POI in very high risk areas
No history of river flooding activity  
or damage(3)
Approximately 13% of Federal Realty’s 
POI is in regions under Extremely High 
Water Stress
≈ 1% of SF in 100-year flood plain
≈ 12% of total SF in very high risk areas
≈ 11% of POI in very high risk areas
No history of wildfire activity or damage (3)
Coastal Flooding  - Potential 
flooding along coastal areas as 
a result of sea level rise
River Flooding  - Potential 
increase from rivers and 
streams resulting from change 
in rainfall conditions
Water Stress  - Potential 
decreases in available water 
supply resulting from droughts 
and increases in temperatures
Regulation
ReputationWildfires  - Enhanced risk 
of wildfires that impact air 
quality and/or cause increased 
property damage
(1) T otal square footage (SF) includes all commercial and residential square footage as of March 31, 2022.  Property operating income (POI) is based on total projected property operating income for 2022 as of March 31, 
2022 with no increases over time. (2) Modeled average annual loss (MAAL) is an estimate of the annual impact to POI as calculated by Climanomics based on 2022 projected POI applying the assumptions underlying 
the Climanomics model. (3) Determined starting from the earlier of 2000 or the year the property was acquired for properties identified as very high risk for the identified hazard.    
 TCFD
Our Board of T rustees, directly and through 
its Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee, has oversight responsibility for all 
ESG matters, including climate change risk 
management.
The Board is provided with quarterly updates 
on all ESG matters including identified climate-
related risks, and progress towards climate-
related targets. Progress on ESG initiatives 
and targets are considered by the Board when 
evaluating bonus payouts for our executive 
officers responsible for development, oversight 
and implementation of our ESG programs. 
Our CEO is responsible for our ESG efforts with 
day-to-day management of ESG overseen by 
our Executive Vice President-General Counsel 
and our Head of Sustainability, with support from 
key department heads and an interdisciplinary 
council of employees representing different 
functional areas of the company. Climate related 
risks and opportunities are incorporated into our 
strategy and decision making on investments, 
and risk management policies. GovernanceT askforce on Climate Related Financial DisclosuresPhysical Risks
Transition Risks
Additional regulations by federal, state and local 
governments could increase operating costs and 
require additional capital investment
Retail, residential and office tenants have shown 
increased interest in “green” buildings and failure 
to satisfy those interests could decrease demand 
for our space, decrease rental rates or leave us with 
“stranded assets.”
3839Potential Increase in risk (1) (2)
Medium T erm: 2030-2040 Long T erm: 2040-2100
< 3% of total SF in very high risk areas
< 1% of POI in very high risk areas
No history of coastal flooding damage(3)
< 3% of total SF in very high risk areas
< 4% of POI in very high risk areas
No history of river flooding activity  
or damage(3)
Approximately 13% of Federal Realty’s 
POI is in regions under Extremely High 
Water Stress
≈ 1% of SF in 100-year flood plain
≈ 12% of total SF in very high risk areas
≈ 11% of POI in very high risk areas
No history of wildfire activity or damage (3)MAAL < 1% of POI through 2040
MAAL < 0.15% of POI through 
2040
MAAL is 0% of POI through 
2040
MAAL < 0.4% of POI through 
2040MAAL grows to ≈ 1.1% 
of POI by 2100
MAAL grows to ≈ 0.5% of POI 
by 2100
MAAL grows to 0.01% of POI by 
2100
MAAL grows to ≈ 0.07% of POI 
by 2100
Increased
Revenue
Lower
Operating
Costs
Markets
Reputation(1) T otal square footage (SF) includes all commercial and residential square footage as of March 31, 2022.  Property operating income (POI) is based on total projected property operating income for 2022 as of March 31, 
2022 with no increases over time. (2) Modeled average annual loss (MAAL) is an estimate of the annual impact to POI as calculated by Climanomics based on 2022 projected POI applying the assumptions underlying 
the Climanomics model. (3) Determined starting from the earlier of 2000 or the year the property was acquired for properties identified as very high risk for the identified hazard.    
 We start by establishing a baseline for which of 
our assets are most vulnerable to various climate-
related events today using primarily the FEMA 
National Risk Index and WRI Acqueduct tools.  
We then evaluate the potential increase in those 
physical risks over time using the most conservative 
scenario, RCP 8.5, which assumes business as 
usual with no global action on climate change and 
temperatures rising by 4.2 – 5.4 degrees Celsius.  
We evaluate future transition risks over time using 
the scenario RCP4.5 which assumes widespread 
global action on climate change that limits global 
temperature increases to 2 degrees Celsius. Both 
scenarios look at exposure in the short-term (2022-
2030), medium-term (2030-2040) and longer term 
(2040 and beyond). All of the identified physical 
and transition risks have the potential to decrease 
our revenue through things such as loss of income, 
increased operating costs and costs of repair, and 
increased costs of insurance.  They also have the 
potential to require significant amounts of capital 
investment for restoration of property damage and 
required modifications.Physical and Transition Opportunities
Increased rents as a result of higher demand for 
our resilient, energy efficient buildings with social 
components
Decreased costs for energy and water through 
efficiency-focused investments that reduce overall 
usage or generate on-site power
Competitive advantage of properties located 
in markets where public and private sectors 
collectively focused on improving resilience and 
addressing climate change
Long-standing commitment to addressing climate 
change enhances reputation which leads to 
increased demand for our properties and higher 
valuationsBased on the information provided using the 
FEMA National Risk Index and WRI Aqueduct 
tools, we do not believe any one of these physical 
or transition risks poses a material financial risk to 
the company today, and based on the projected 
modeled average annual loss generated by the 
Climanomics platform for each risk, we do not 
expect to see any material increase in our level of 
exposure to any of these physical risks over the 
short-, medium- or long-terms.Limited Current and Future RiskWe use a combination of publicly available 
tools and The Climate Service’s Climanomics® 
software platform to conduct a scenario analysis, 
to understand the financial risk to the company 
over time as a result of climate change.  Strategy and Risk Exposure01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / Appendix4041Numerous risk management strategies are used across our portfolio to 
manage climate related risks.
Geographic diversity of our portfolio reduces overall impact of any singular risk
Most properties located in jurisdictions with more aggressive policies focused on addressing climate  
change and improving community resiliency
Maintenance of insurance
Active programs to maintain our properties in good physical condition
Active emergency response plans to mitigate the impacts of events that occur
Assets located in markets identified by the FEMA National Risk Index with high levels of preparation to 
anticipate natural disasters, adapt to changing conditions and recover rapidly from disruptions
Monitoring and preparing for legislative and regulatory changes at all levels
Ongoing tracking and maintenance of utility data to manage usage and cost 
✓ Due diligence evaluation of physical condition and environmental site condition
✓ Due diligence evaluation of asset’s resiliency, energy usage and water usage
✓ Climanomics modeling to understand future climate related exposures, under various climate change scenarios
✓ Review current and pending laws and regulations
✓ Incorporate financial impacts of identified issues into our underwriting prior to investment approval
✓ Annual evaluation to identify near-term and longer-term physical and transitional risks of all types 
✓ Develop asset level operating plan that addresses identified risks
✓ Develop longer term strategic plans taking into account evolving consumer and tenant preferences
T ake future climate risk and move to decarbonization into account in design phase
T ake future climate risk and move to decarbonization into account in selection of construction methods,  
materials and building systems
Achieve LEED and other building certifications when feasible
Leverage long history of designing and building places that meet consumer and tenant expectationsRisk Management
All Properties
  Acquisitions
Operating Assets
Developments01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / Appendix Advancing Social Equity in Real Estate
 Supporting Economic Growth 
 Helping T enants Thrive
 Promoting Local Art & Culture
 Creating Community Experiences
 Giving for Good
GRI  2-29  413-1Community
Impact
IN THIS SECTION
4243
To be sustainable over the long 
term, our properties have to 
contribute to the economic 
and social betterment of the 
communities they serve.  
RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW
WILLOW LAWN   /  RICHMOND, VA01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixAdvancing 
Social Equity 
in Real Estate
We value the diversity of our communities and 
have committed to investing in real estate that 
enables economic opportunity for underserved 
and marginalized populations.
Primestor Partnership FactsOver the past five years, Federal has worked 
in partnership with Primestor Development, 
a full-service real estate company focused 
on economic development in underserved 
neighborhoods in Southern California. 
T o further support our efforts to advance 
social equity in real estate, we have committed  
an additional $2 million to Primestor’s Urban 
Vision Fund that is dedicated to investing in 
projects located in urban, low- and moderate- 
income, and predominantly Latino markets.  
We added Arturo Sneider, co-founder of 
Primestor, as a full voting member of our 
Investment Committee to get the benefit of his 
insights and perspectives on all investments 
greater than $1 million.
T otal 
Investment$425 M$$
Median Income*$58 K
*Portfolio average within 3-mile radius of each property per Pop Stats as of August 2021.
JUNETEENTH EVENT AT FREEDOM PLAZA  /  LOS ANGELES, CA
WE CARE EVENT AT AZALEA  /  SOUTHGATE, CA
VILLAGE SQUARE  /  BELL GARDENS, CA
Square Feet1.2 M
Ethnic and Racial 
Minorities*   94%9
T otal Properties
4445Freedom Plaza is located in the Watts 
neighborhood of Los Angeles. The shopping 
center serves as a retail hub for community 
engagement, economic prosperity and further 
redevelopment of the Watts area.
Lined with murals created by local artists, 
the center provides a lively and welcoming 
atmosphere and has closed the “grocery gap” 
for surrounding neighborhoods.  The area 
around the property had been designated 
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as an 
“urban food desert” –meaning that there were 
at least 100 households more than half a mile 
from the nearest supermarket with no vehicle 
access. The grocery store at the property now 
provides local residents with easy access to 
fresh foods.
Thoughtful cultural programming at the center 
reflects and honors the Hispanic heritage of 
the local community. Scholarships co-funded 
by Federal, Primestor, and property tenants 
give area public school children the financial 
means to attend art school and college. 
Center-based jobs boost local employment 
and provide area residents with the ability to 
grow with prominent retailers. These activities 
serve to elevate individuals and the broader 
community, and provide a foundation for 
further urban renewal to come.
JUNETEENTH EVENT AT FREEDOM PLAZA  /  LOS ANGELES, CA
OF THE POPULATION WITHIN 
THREE-MILES OF FREEDOM  
PLAZA IDENTIFY AS HISPANIC 
OF WORKERS AT THE PROPERTY  
ARE AREA RESIDENTS  85%
65%SPOTLIGHT
Freedom Plaza01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixContinual reinvestment in our real estate helps 
to increase those contributions over time, with 
the economic impact of our investment further 
magnified in communities where we own 
multiple properties. At Federal, our commitment to 
social responsibility is reflected in 
how, where and why we invest in 
our real estate. 
Federal often owns properties 
for decades and continual 
reinvestment ensures that our 
places evolve along with the 
expectations and needs of the 
communities that rely on them. 
Through our reinvestment, we also 
spur further social and economic 
development of surrounding 
buildings and neighborhoods.    Supporting 
Economic Growth
Reinvestment with PurposeEach of our properties brings positive 
economic impact to local communities 
through job creation and sales and 
real estate tax revenue.
BEFORE
AFTER
4647Located at the geographic center of  
Coconut Grove, Florida, CocoWalk had lost its 
connection with the community, with uninviting 
architecture and a mall-like tenant line-up.  
T oday, CocoWalk has a tenant lineup that delivers 
the types of experiences and services that were 
previously missing in The Grove and a new LEED 
Gold certified office building to support the 
business community.  CocoWalk
CASE STUDY
From the 60-foot Kapok tree brought to the 
property from a resident’s yard to the local artwork 
featured throughout, CocoWalk has reestablished 
itself as the heart and soul of Coconut Grove and 
spurred additional investment by neighboring 
property owners that will benefit the neighborhood 
for decades to come.
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixWe use our Green Box™ criteria and green 
lease provisions to support our tenants in 
designing and building their space to be energy-
efficient and environmentally savvy, support 
them through their day-to-day operations with 
constant communication and provide them 
opportunities to showcase their business 
through numerous marketing opportunities.  We 
aim to build long-lasting relationships with each 
of our tenants and see ourselves as partners in 
their long-term success.  “At first there were unexpected challenges 
during the build-out of my space that were 
challenging the opening timeline. The 
Federal Realty construction and tenant 
services team helped me get back on track 
and I was able to speed up the process of 
opening my space without additional delays.  
In addition, the marketing team offered great 
ideas to kickstart my marketing plan and 
connected me with a PR professional that 
made my business start strong!
Caroline Yi
Sunday Morning Bakehouse”Helping Tenants 
Thrive
We have achieved a half century of sustainable 
growth by placing the right tenants in the right 
properties and partnering with them for success 
throughout their lease term.
Having created a loyal following at the weekly Pike & 
Rose farmer’s market, avid baker Caroline Yi decided 
it was time for her next move – opening her own 
bakery and café at Pike & Rose.SPOTLIGHT
Sunday Morning 
Bakehouse, Pike & Rose
Makers of Maryland is an online collective that 
features the works of Maryland artists and creatives.  
T o help these small artist-driven businesses that 
were hit hard by the pandemic, we worked with 
the collective’s founder to create a brick-and-
mortar space at The AVENUE at White Marsh that 
would enable more than 70 artists and creatives to 
showcase and sell their creations.  SPOTLIGHT
Supporting Makers  
of Maryland
4849
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixIncorporating local art into our 
properties makes each property 
unique to that community, creating 
a deep connection and sense of 
pride. Local art at our properties 
takes many forms.  
Sometimes it is integrated into 
architectural plans and becomes 
part of a building.  Sometimes it 
takes the form of sculptures and 
wall murals that can be changed 
to highlight local artists over time.  
Sometimes it takes the shape of 
event-driven art fairs, exhibitions 
and art performances for live 
audiences.  
Whatever the context, the creativity 
and color of local art is used at our 
properties to encourage visitors 
to engage in positive conversation 
and celebrate the culture 
and diversity that makes their 
community extraordinary.Promoting Local 
Art & Culture
WILLOW LAWN   /  RICHMOND, VA
PLAZA DEL MERCADO   /  SIL VER SPRING, MD
5051
QUINCE ORCHARD / GAITHERSBURG, MD01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixReplace all 
photosCreating 
Community 
Experiences
We seek to create a seamless 
connection between our 
properties and our communities, 
and pride ourselves in our ability 
to create events and programming 
that appeal to the diverse  
interests of our valued guests.  
In 2021, we hosted more than 300 
events, activations and pop-ups 
designed to surprise and delight 
community members  
of all ages. 
SANTANA ROW   /  SAN JOSE, CA
WILLOW LAWN   /  RICHMOND, VABRICK PLAZA   /  BRICK, NJ
5253
SANTANA ROW   /  SAN JOSE, CA01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixOur 2021 Annual Giving Campaign raised more 
than $50,000 to support The Natalie Project, a 
not-for-profit founded by Julie Neward, one of 
our property managers in Southern California. 
The Natalie Project champions healing and 
systematic change for families with an intellectually 
or developmentally disabled loved one who has 
experienced the trauma of sexual abuse. 
The cause is personal for Julie, whose younger 
sister, Natalie, is a survivor of such abuse. The ability 
to support such a worthwhile cause that is little 
known and so personal to one of our colleagues 
led to record participation and giving by our 
employees.ANNUAL GIVING CAMPAIGN
Supporting Causes 
Close to the Heart
Giving for Good
For more than five decades, we 
have fostered a deep sense of 
responsibility to give back in ways 
that exemplify our values. Our 
corporate and local philanthropic 
giving campaigns provide separate, 
yet important avenues for us to 
support, and engage with, the 
communities we serve. 
Nearly 2,000 tickets were sold for T rick-or-T reat 
events at three Washington D.C. area properties 
with all proceeds going directly to groups focused 
on reducing hunger in their local communities. Halloween  Trick-or-Treat Drives
5455Through our Step Up with Federal program, we 
partner with Givhero to encourage employees to 
turn their daily step count into dollars donated by 
Federal to charitable causes. This annual charity program lines Assembly Row 
in Somerville, MA, with 12- foot Christmas trees, 
each decorated by a local nonprofit. Throughout 
December, shoppers are encouraged to vote for 
their favorite trees to determine which nonprofit will 
be awarded our “People’s Choice” award of $2,500. 
A Judges’ panel also appoints a $2,500 donation, 
with remining charities each receiving a $500 
participation donation.
At a local level, our property teams work closely 
with surrounding communities to identify emerging 
areas of need and to determine how best to meet 
them.  In 2021, our local giving campaigns included 
toy and food drives for local non-profits as well as 
a number of seasonal events designed to support 
those in need at a grassroots level.Deck the Cause
Community GivingStep Up with Federal
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixIN THIS SECTION
GRI  201-3  401-1  401-2 401-3 403-9 
403-10  404-1  404-2  404-3  406-1Federal’s People
Developing Industry-Leading T alent 
Celebrating Individual Success 
Rewarding our Employees 
Cultivating Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Promoting Health, Safety and Well-BeingOur Team
5657
Our workforce is family– 
we want our people to feel 
like Federal is home.
RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact
RELATIVES WHO WORK AT FEDERAL   /  NORTH BETHESDA, MD07 / AppendixEXCELLENCE ACCOUNTABILITYOur culture is underpinned by open and 
frequent communication of what is happening 
throughout the company.  It starts with 
our CEO’s in-person meeting with all new 
employees that then provides them with the 
opportunity to hear about the vision of the 
company directly from the top.  It continues 
with our quarterly company-wide meetings 
where we provide business updates and have 
employees present on interesting work they are 
doing in various areas of the company.  Ensuring 
our team is well-informed on key actions and 
the strategic direction of the company is key in 
keeping our employees fully engaged.
•  Strive to be best in class
•  Embrace change
•  Be determined to succeed•   Do what you say you’re   
     going to do
•  T ake ownership of your  
    work quality
•  T ake pride in team  
    achievements
•  Be accountable for
    what you doFederal’s People
We can create exceptional places 
because we have exceptional 
people. With a team of just over 
300 employees, the contribution 
of every person is critical to driving 
our success. 
It all starts with company culture.  We are 
committed to ensuring that our people feel 
supported, challenged and empowered each 
day and have experiences that help them 
thrive both personally and professionally.  
Be Outstanding Own It
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS   /  NORTH BETHESDA, MD
5859ACCOUNTABILITY INTEGRITY INNOVATION
•   Do what you say you’re   
     going to do
•  T ake ownership of your  
    work quality
•  T ake pride in team  
    achievements
•  Be accountable for
    what you do•   Always do the right thing
•   Be trustworthy, fair  
     and respectful
•  Value diversity in all respects
•  Value what makes us  
   all unique•  Innovate and challenge  
    the norm
•  Be creative
•  T ake smart risks
•  Learn from setbacksFEDERAL CORE VALUES
Own It Make Us Proud Be Progressive
8.7
Average 
Y ears of T enure01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixRIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW”
”
teamwork
co-workers
family
culture
environmentautonomy
challengingrespectful
trust
pride
–2022 engagement surveyWhat do people like most about the company?
6061– Pat Dillon, Vice President of ConstructionDeveloping  
Industry-Leading 
Talent 
Attracting, retaining and 
developing the best talent is key 
to driving results and long-term 
value. That’s why we provide 
every employee, at every level, the 
opportunity to innovate, contribute 
to new ideas and challenge us to 
think outside the box. 
From day one, new team members are 
given exposure to our leadership team and 
encouraged to ask questions. More junior 
team members are also encouraged to 
present new ideas to more senior colleagues 
as well as our Board of T rustees. 
We have a culture of mentorship, with senior 
team members taking  an active role in the 
career development of more junior colleagues, 
both within their own teams and across the 
company.  These practical experiences prepare 
our team to quickly assume roles with higher 
levels of responsibility.  In 2021, we were able 
to recognize the achievements of our team by 
promoting 15% of our employees into positions 
with new challenges and greater responsibilities.  
We actively encourage self-directed training 
through our tuition reimbursement program 
and our “Learn at Federal” training platform. 
We also offer employees time and expense 
reimbursement to participate in and present  
at industry-related educational seminars.  Francis Ryan, our most senior property 
engineer located in Northern Virginia, is our 
longest serving employee, having spent 
almost four decades with the company.   
In honor of his outstanding service to the 
company, we named a conference room  
after Francis in our corporate headquarters.
I began my career with Federal in 1996 as 
an administrative assistant and, over time, 
moved into property management, tenant 
coordination and then construction.  T oday, I 
am the Vice President of Construction for our 
East Coast properties.  Not only have I had 
an amazing opportunity to grow my career 
but I was also fortunate enough to have met 
my wife here at Federal.  I love being in the 
position now to mentor newer members of 
the Federal team to help them enjoy the same 
kind of growth and fulfillment that I’ve been 
able to find over my 25+ years at Federal.39 Years with Federal
Growing with FederalSPOTLIGHT
SPOTLIGHT
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixThe quarterly “Find A Better Way Award” 
recognizes employee success aligned with 
Federal’s Innovation value. Since the award was 
created in 2008, winners have come from every 
department, in every office and are recognized 
for developing new ways to generate revenue 
and improve operations.  Winners are honored 
at our quarterly employee meetings and receive 
a $2,500 gift card plus a recognition plaque.
Federal’s annual “years of service awards” 
event recognizes every employee who has 
celebrated a milestone anniversary and 
provides them with an opportunity to make 
personal remarks to the whole company.  In 
addition to a financial award, each employee 
who has reached a milestone receives a 
recognition certificate that includes a personal 
note from our CEO.
 There is no better measure of the passion our 
team has for the company than listening to the 
stories of those celebrating a major service 
anniversary describe their experiences at 
Federal with their work family. There is also no 
better measure of our culture than listening to 
our CEO introduce almost every recipient with 
a personal story of his own experience working 
with them during their tenure at the company. 
Celebrating 
Individual 
Success
Our longstanding awards 
programs are an important 
means of celebrating our 
employees’ accomplishments 
and ensuring that they feel seen, 
heard and valued. CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS   /  NORTH BETHESDA, MD
6263Federal provides competitive compensation 
through base salary, annual bonus and stock 
awards. We also provide a wide range of benefits 
to our employees, including medical, dental and 
vision insurance, company-matching contributions 
to 401K retirement savings plans, employee 
assistance programs and generous paid time off.   
Employees also enjoy perks such as free parking at 
our offices, commuter benefits, exclusive discounts 
for many of our retail tenants and housing 
accommodations at our residential projects. Other 
added benefits include free breakfast Wednesday, 
social events and casual office dress every day 
to help contribute to engagement and positive 
morale.
We also offer company-wide flexible work 
arrangements to help our employees better meet 
business, family and personal needs. Department 
managers and office leaders were given the 
autonomy to establish their own policies around 
flexible work arrangements for the employees in 
their departments and offices.  They know their 
employees best and are in the best position to 
determine the right balance for their teams.
We also used 2021 to thank our teams for their 
extraordinary efforts throughout the pandemic 
by giving every employee, other than our CEO, a 
one-time supplemental bonus.  Acknowledging 
extraordinary efforts through such an extraordinary 
time was the right thing to do.Rewarding Our 
Employees 
We do not offer average benefits, 
because Federal is not an 
average workplace. It’s the little 
things that foster culture and 
allow people to succeed. 
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixCultivating Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion 
Diversity, equity and inclusion is 
not a target to be reached.  For 
Federal, it’s a fundamental way of 
approaching our business.  We 
long ago recognized and continue 
to embrace the value of bringing 
together a team with diverse 
thoughts, perspectives and life 
experiences and giving everyone 
a meaningful seat at the table.The concepts of diversity, equity 
and inclusion are embedded in 
our core value – Integrity – which 
is our commitment to being fair 
and respectful, valuing diversity 
in all respects and embracing 
what makes each of us unique.  CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS   /  NORTH BETHESDA, MD
646592%
90%
96%Longstanding Commitment to Diversity
Results from 2022  Engagement Survey
 Employees proud to work for the organization:
Overall
Women
Ethnic/racial minorities1988
1995
2003
2007
At least one minority trusteeAt least 1/3 female non-management trustees One or more female trusteesOne or more female senior executives01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixPIKE & ROSE
SANTANA ROWNorth Bethesda, MD – Corporate HQ
MALE FEMALE WHITE BLACK ASIAN OTHER
San Jose, CA - West Coast HQBars indicate office population
Bars indicate office populationWhiteMale
15-Minute Drive
15-Minute DriveBlackFemale
LatinoOffice Diversity Reflects 
Local Community 
Beyond our own company, we are advocating 
for DEI within our industry.  In 2020, our CEO 
formalized Federal’s DEI commitment with 
the signing of the CEO Action and Diversity & 
Inclusion™ pledge. 
Our CEO is also actively involved in industry DEI 
initiatives as a member of the CEO Council of the 
Dividends Through Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
(DDEI) initiative of the National Association of Real 
Estate Investment T rusts and as one of three REIT 
CEOs leading the philanthropy component of DDEI.  Championing DEI From the T op Down … 
DEI starts with having diversity of 
thoughts, perspectives and life 
experiences in our Board of T rustees 
and senior leadership groups.Our headquarters and regional offices are located 
at our properties so that our team members are 
part of the communities those properties serve 
and can bring to their jobs the perspectives of that 
community.  As part of this, we also believe that our 
workforce diversity should reflect the diversity of the 
communities we serve. 
Race & EthnicityGender
BOARD OF TRUSTEESBOARD OF TRUSTEES
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIPEXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
INVESTMENT COMMITTEEINVESTMENT COMMITTEE
%%
MALE FEMALE WHITE BLACK ASIAN OTHER
666764%
47%WOMEN
RACIAL/ETHNIC MINORITIESIt starts with our hiring process.  We have 
proactively expanded our sources for identifying 
qualified candidates to include multiple avenues 
that increase our ability to identify a diverse 
candidate pool for each open position.  Resumes 
are anonymized to strip away identifiable 
characteristics that are not related to the job 
or experiences needed for success in order to 
remove the potential for unconscious bias when 
considering a candidate.  … And Building DEI from the Bottom Up
2021 HiresWe focus on eliminating internal 
systemic biases that could impact 
our ability to continue to diversify 
our workforce.
We monitor the hiring process to ensure that 
diverse candidates are not disproportionately 
excluded at any point and are included in final 
consideration for all positions at the director level 
and above.
Our actions yielded success in 2021 with the most 
diverse group of new hires in recent history for both 
gender and racial and ethnic minorities.No “End Point” to DEI
“ I love the approach our company 
is taking to diversity, equity and 
inclusion. We’re embedding DE&I into 
every part of our business for the long 
term rather than simply developing 
targets that indicate there might 
be an end point to the process. The 
best indicator that our approach is 
working is that our hiring managers 
view their diverse hires as a highly 
qualified candidates, not as diverse 
candidates they had to hire to meet 
a goal. I truly believe that what we’re 
doing positions us well to reshape the 
future workforce of our company.
”Jennifer Desir, Manager, T alent Acquisition 01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixCORPORATE HEADQUARTERS   /  NORTH BETHESDA, MD
6869In 2021, we commissioned an experienced third-
party to review the compensation at all levels 
of the company in order to determine whether 
there were any pay inequalities between men and 
women or among racial and ethnic groups. The 
analysis completed by the third-party showed that 
there were no statistically significant differences 
between similarly situated employees based on 
gender, race or ethnicity. 
We prioritize the health of our employees by 
offering benefits and activities that promote their 
physical, financial and mental well-being. Our 
annual week-long health fair that offers employees 
access to basic health screening tests, free flu 
shots, individual sessions with a certified financial 
planner, and other health and overall wellness Equal Pay for Equal Work
We believe in pay equity and are 
committed to understanding and 
maintaining an equitable pay 
structure within our business as 
part of our ongoing DEI initiatives.   
Promoting 
Health, Safety 
and Well-Being 
At Federal, we understand that 
health, safety and well-being goes 
hand in hand with maintaining 
a motivated and productive 
workforce.  information.  T ogether with our gym and fitness class 
reimbursements and one-off events ranging from 
COVID-19 booster shot clinics to seminars on healthy 
eating, we provide numerous opportunities for our 
employees to focus on their individual well-being.
Our Step Up with Federal Challenges harness the 
spirit of friendly competition by creating teams of 
people that cross departments and offices who 
compete to see which team takes the most steps 
during the challenge. T otal steps taken by all of the 
teams are turned into dollars donated by Federal to 
charitable causes.
The focus on the health and well-being of our 
employees also extends to our office environments. 
More than 80% of our office-based employees work 
at one of our mixed-use, walkable properties and 
more than three-quarters of those employees have 
offices in are located in buildings that have LEED 
Gold certification, with all the health and wellness 
benefits that come with such buildings, including 
improved lighting and air quality.  That, combined with 
the walkable amenities available to them just outside 
the office door, has significantly reduced the anxiety 
of returning to office post-COVID.
We operate our properties in accordance with 
Occupational Health and Safety Act guidelines 
and site-specific safety and maintenance policies. 
We have emergency preparedness plans for 
our properties and offices and provide regular 
certification in CPR to employee volunteers who 
serve on our Emergency Action Committees for  
our offices.0 workers comp 
claims in 202101 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixIN THIS SECTION
GRI   2-9  2-10  2-11  2-12  2-13  2-15  2-16 2-17  2-18  2-23  2-24  2-25  2-27  
205-2  205-3  206-1  405-1  415-1  205-3  206-1  405-1  415-1The Board of T rustees
Key Governance Facts
Executive Leadership 
Investing Responsibly
Holding Ourselves to the Highest Standards
Ethics in Our Value Chain
Information Security
Political Contributions and ActivitiesGovernance
7071
Through good governance,  
we continue to foster a culture 
that empowers positive 
change and drives positive 
long-term performance. 
RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact
BOARD OF TRUSTEES07 / AppendixOur corporate governance framework 
is built on the principles of integrity, 
transparency and accountability, 
and designed to ensure that our 
company’s processes and policies 
align with our values and support  
our business.  
More information about our Board, T rustees and 
Executive Leadership T eam is available on our 
website, as are our key governance policies and 
documents. Elizabeth I. Holland
Compensation Committee Chair
Mark S. Ordan
Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee ChairAnthony P . Nader
TrusteeDavid W. Faeder
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board
Gail P . Steinel
Audit Committee Chair
8 years
Average T enure of 
Non-Management 
TrusteesAt Federal, corporate governance starts with our 
Board of T rustees, which has primary responsibility 
for overseeing the business of our company on behalf 
of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Under 
the direction of the Board, our Executive Leadership 
T eam is responsible for developing and executing our 
strategy and managing the day-to-day operations of 
our business. The Board of 
Trustees
7273Nicole Y. Lamb-Hale
Trustee
Don Wood
Trustee and CEOAnthony P . Nader
TrusteeDavid W. Faeder
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board
Gail P . Steinel
Audit Committee Chair
Key Governance 
Facts
Annual election of all T rustees
Independent Audit, Compensation, and  
Nominating Committees
Independent non-executive chairman of the  
Board since 2003
Direct Board oversight of all environmental, social 
and governance matters
Direct Board oversight of cyber security and data 
protection matters
Direct Board oversight of human resources  
policies and strategies
Annual Board and individual T rustee evaluations
Shareholder approval required to classify  
the Board
Majority voting in uncontested elections 
Proxy access for shareholders
Pay-for-performance compensation philosophy
Prohibition on hedging and pledging our stock
Robust stock ownership requirements for  
T rustees and senior management
No poison pill
Clawback policy in place01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixDON WOOD
Chief Executive Officer
DAN GUGLIELMONE
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial  
Officer and TreasurerDAWN BECKER 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel  
and Secretary
JEFF BERKES  
President and Chief Operating OfficerWENDY SEHER
Executive Vice President, Eastern  
Region PresidentJAN SWEETNAM
Executive Vice President, Western 
Region President20
Y ears Average 
T enure of Executive
LeadershipExecutive
Leadership
7475Investing 
Responsibly 
Holding Ourselves 
to the Highest 
Standards We are deeply committed to ensuring that our 
investments are made in the best interests of 
the business, our shareholders and our many 
stakeholders. 
All proposed capital investments in excess of 
$1 million, including acquisitions, developments, 
redevelopments, and leasing capital, as well as 
all dispositions, are presented to our internal 
Investment Committee for review and approval.
Our eight-person committee is comprised of our 
CEO, President and COO, CFO, General Counsel, 
our regional presidents, our SVP of acquisitions, and 
Arturo Sneider, president of Primestor, with each 
person having one equal vote. 
Integrity is one of Federal’s four core values, 
reflecting an expectation of the highest ethical 
behavior from our company, including our trustees, 
employees and other representatives in all aspects 
of our business. The diversity of our Investment Committee members 
and their respective experiences and disciplines 
provides a full range of relevant considerations for 
each investment decision. Investments approved by 
the Investment Committee that exceed certain size 
thresholds must be submitted to the full Board for 
approval. The supporting package that is prepared 
for review and consideration by the Investment 
Committee and/or the Board includes a description 
of the request, detailed financial analysis, the ESG 
considerations related to the request, and an 
evaluation of major risks and potential opportunities.Zero Violations in 2021Our Board has adopted a Code of Conduct that 
applies to every trustee and employee and addresses 
topics such as conflicts of interest, prohibition on 
bribery, fair dealing with third parties, and protection of 
Federal’s assets.  In 2021, all our employees confirmed 
their commitment to the principles of the Code of 
Conduct. 
An additional Code of Ethics governs our most 
senior officers in relation to professional integrity and 
appropriate controls with respect to all of our financial 
reporting. Each year, our senior officers acknowledge 
their agreement to be bound by that Code of Ethics.  
Employees and other parties with whom we do 
business can use our whistleblower hotline to 
anonymously report any violations of the Code of 
Conduct, Code of Ethics or any other behavior that 
may not be appropriate. Our General Counsel has 
direct oversight responsibility for ensuring compliance 
with the Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics and 
reports directly to the chair of the Board’s Audit 
Committee on any violations. 
0 Code of Conduct 
Violations
0 Code of Ethics 
Violations
0 Calls to Whistle-
blowers Hotline01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixInformation 
Security  
Just as we seek to protect our 
physical assets, we believe in 
implementing strong information 
and cyber security measures to 
secure all digital assets.    
The Audit Committee of our Board oversees the 
risk management processes relating to cyber 
security with management responsibility falling 
under our Executive Vice President-General 
Counsel and our Chief Information Officer.  Every 
quarter, management discusses with the Audit 
Committee all aspects of our overall cyber strategy 
including an identification of the company’s cyber 0 information 
security breaches
in 2021  risks, actions we have taken and are planning to take 
to mitigate those risks, whether we experienced 
any breaches or other intrusions into our systems in 
the last quarter and trends we are seeing develop 
around cyber security matters.
Our information systems are designed to support 
our overall business strategy and to allow our 
employees to work seamlessly and securely whether 
within our offices or elsewhere. These systems are 
essential to our business operations and we focus 
on maintaining the security and integrity of these 
systems in order to mitigate the risk of these systems 
being breached or compromised in any way.  
The potential risks to our systems are evaluated 
on a continual basis in the context of the impact a 
breach of these systems could have on each of the 
key business function(s) it supports with a deeper 
review at least quarterly done with the assistance 
of a third party consulting firm that serves as our 
chief information security officer. Potential risks are 
identified with senior management and evaluated 
together with remediation alternatives.  Remediation 
alternatives include, among other things, activities 
to prevent, detect and minimize the impact of 
any breaches as well as business continuity, and 
recovery plans in the event a breach occurs.  We also 
maintain cyber insurance to cover certain types of 
cyber-related breaches in order to provide further 
protection for our company and our assets. 
If any breach of our systems is detected, it is 
immediately reported to our senior management 
and if it is deemed to be material, to the chair of 
the Board’s Audit Committee.  Immediate action 
is taken to stop any continuation of the breach, to 
evaluate the source of the breach and to remediate 
any vulnerabilities that allowed the breach to occur.  
Public disclosure of any breach and the impact of the 
breach would be made if required.Ethics in Our  
Value Chain 
We expect our vendors, suppliers, 
contractors, and consultants to 
act with the highest degree of 
integrity in their own businesses 
as they work to support the 
growth of ours. 
We have implemented a separate code of 
conduct for these groups that specifically lays 
out our expectations for their general business 
practices, their policies towards working 
conditions, human rights and environmental 
impact.  The policies provide information for how 
to report violations, including the ability to report 
anonymously using our whistleblower hotline.
7677
WEST COAST HEADQUARTERS   /  SAN JOSE, CA01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community Impact 07 / AppendixPolitical 
Contributions 
and Activities
Federal does not make contributions of any kind 
to any federal candidates or campaigns. We do, however, periodically authorize contributions to state and local candidates and to promote ballot initiatives that support our business objectives in a particular locality (subject to applicable laws and after obtaining necessary internal approvals). 
In addition, Federal belongs to various trade 
associations that may engage in federal and local lobbying activities. We do not control those activities in any way; they are generally undertaken for the benefit of the industry and all members as a whole. We may, from time to time, lease space in our properties to candidates or campaigns solely for office use with an express prohibition against holding any political activities at the property.
Our employees are encouraged to engage in the 
political and governmental process; however, with the exception of paid time off to vote, those activities are considered personal, must be undertaken on the employees’ own time, may not involve the use of company resources, and may not interfere with or disrupt our business.  More detail on this topic can be found in our Policy on Political Activities and Contributions. Available on our website.
7879
01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 07 / Appendix 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community ImpactAppendix
IN THIS SECTIONGreen Bond Proceeds Allocation
GRI/SASB Index
8081
 RIVERFEST   /  ASSEMBL Y ROW01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 07 / Appendix 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community ImpactGT.COM Grant Thornton LLP is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and each of its member firms 
are se parate le gal entities and are not a worldwide partnershi p.     Management of Federal Realty Investment Trust and Federal Realty OP LP 
We have examined the management of Feder al Realty Investment Trust (the “Trust”) 
and Federal Realty OP LP (the “Operatin g Partnership”) and their subsidiaries’ 
(collectively, the “Company”) assertion r egarding Green Bond proceeds, that the net 
proceeds from the October 8, 2020 issuanc e of 1.25% Notes Due February 15, 2026 
were used to fund, in whole or in part, the Eligible Green Projects as defined in 
management’s assertion, included on the “G reen Bonds Use of Proceeds Statement 
as of March 31, 2022.” The Company’s  management is responsible for its assertion. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination. 
Our examination was conducted in accordance  with attestation standards established 
by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountan ts. Those standards require 
that we plan and perform the examination to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects. An examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about management’s 
assertion. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our 
judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
management’s assertion, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
The other information included in the Company’s  2021 Corporate Responsibility 
Report is presented by management of the Company and is not a part of the Company’s assertion. Such information has  not been subjected to the procedures 
applied in the examination engagement and accordingly, we do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on it.  
In our opinion, management’s assertion that the net proceeds from the October 8, 
2020 issuance of 1.25% Notes Due February 15, 2026 were used to fund, in whole or in part, the Eligible Green Projects, as defined in management’s assertion, included on the “Green Bonds Use of Proceeds Statement as of March 31, 2022” is fairly stated, in all material respects.  
New York, New York 
May 23, 2022  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS GRANT THORNTON LLP  
757 Third Ave., 9th Floor 
New York, NY 10017-2013 
D +1 212 599 0100 
F +1 212 370 4520 
8283
Management’s Assertion 
Regarding Green Bond Proceeds
Federal Realty Investment T rust’s management 
is responsible for the completeness, accuracy and validity of the Green Bond Use of Proceeds Statement dated March 31, 2022. Management asserts that all of the net proceeds from the October 13, 2020 issuance of 1.25% Notes Due February 15, 2026 were used to fund, in whole or in part, the Eligible Green Projects, as defined below, included on the Green Bonds Use of Proceeds Statement as of March 31, 2022.
“Eligible Green Projects” means (i) investments in 
acquisitions of buildings; (ii) building developments or redevelopments; (iii) renovations in existing buildings; and (iv) tenant improvement projects, in each case, that have received, or are expected to receive, in the three years prior to the issuance of the notes or during the term of the notes, a LEED Silver, Gold or Platinum certification (or environmentally equivalent successor standards). Net Proceeds from Sale of Notes
Montaje Building (retail/residential)
909 Rose Avenue (retail/office)FRT Corporate HeadquartersCanopy Hotel Building  
(retail/residential/hotel)LL Bean Building (retail)Assembly Row
Pike & RosePike & RosePike & Rose
Pike & RoseSomerville, MA
North Bethesda, MD
North Bethesda, MDNorth Bethesda, MD
North Bethesda, MDGold
GoldGoldSilver
Silver$ 205,500,000
$ 81,966,354$ 1,447,867$ 98,200,000
$ 7,100,000Federal Realty Investment Trust $400 million 1.25% Notes Due 2026
Green Bond use of proceeds statement as of March 31, 2022$ 394,214,221
$ 394,214,221Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or 
LEED, is a voluntary, third party building certification process developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (“USGBC”), a non-profit organization. The USGBC developed the LEED certification process to (i) evaluate the environmental performance from a whole-building perspective over a building’s life cycle, (ii) provide a definitive standard for what constitutesa “green building,” (iii) enhance environmentalawareness among architects and buildingcontractors, and (iv) encourage the design andconstruction of energy-efficient, water-conservingbuildings that use sustainable or green resources andmaterials (see www.usgbc.org for more information).
BUILDING
T otalPROJECT PROJECT LOCATION LEED LEED PROJECT COSTS 01 / Introduction 02 / Assembly Row 05 / Our T eam 06 / Governance 07 / Appendix 03 / Addressing Climate Change 04 / Community ImpactTHE ORGANIZATION AND ITS REPORTING PRACTICES   
ACTIVITIES AND WORKERSDISCLOSURE RESPONSE
2-1
2-3
2-4
2-5
2-7
2-8
2-92-6
 IF-RE-000.A,
IF-RE-000.B
Federal Realty Investment T rust
Publicly traded real estate investment trust (NYSE:FRT); 2021 Form 10-K pages 4-5 and 30
909 Rose Avenue, Suite 200, North Bethesda, MD
Report page 6; 2021 Form 10-K pages 4-5, 20 and 23-28
2021 Form 10-K page 2 
None
Our properties and subsidiaries are operated as one consolidated business 
segment with consolidation for financial reporting being determined in accor -
dance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
GICS 60 Real Estate
We own 104 properties located primarily in major coastal markets of the United States.  
Spaces in those properties are provided for long- and short-term contracts for rent by 
tenants who use space for retail, office or residential purposes. Primary vendors/suppliers 
include utility providers, insurance companies, firms that provide day-to-day property 
management/maintenance support; firms that provide professional services such as legal 
and accounting and firms that provide construction or other services related to property 
development and redevelopment.
Secured and unsecured lenders and various joint venture partners who own non-
controlling interests in certain of our properties.
2021 Form 10-K page 37-38January 1, 2021 through December 21, 2021; annually
January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021
June 1, 2022
Emily Paciolla, Director of Sustainability; 301-998-8100Legal name
Nature of ownership and legal form
Headquarters location
Countries of operation
Entities included in sustainability reporting
Differences between entities in financial  
reporting and sustainability reporting
Approach used to consolidate information
Reporting period and frequency of  
sustainability reporting
Reporting period for financial reporting
Publication date of report
Contact person for questions
Restatements from previous periods
Process for external assurance
T otal number employees
Full-time employees
Part-time employees
Methodologies and assumptions
Contextual information
Significant fluctuations during/between 
reporting periods
Workers who are not employees whose work is 
controlled by the organizationNone
Governance  structure including committees 2022 Proxy Statement pages 5-10Report sectors in which we are active
Value chain including products, markets, supply  
chain and downstream entities
Other relevant business relationships
Significant changes from prior periodsNone
None for this reporting period
310 total employees: 171 female (55%); 139 male (45%); regional differences are not 
material to our operations
305 full-time employees: 166 female (54%); 139 male (46%)
5 part-time employees: 5 Female (100%); 0 male (0%)
Actual headcount as of December 31, 2021; average from January 1, 2021 through 
December 31, 2021: 309.5
Part-time employees have reduced hours at their election and 67% of those part-time 
employees are eligible for benefits
None2-2Statement of Use: Federal Realty Investment T rust has reported following the GRI Index for the period January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021
GRI 1 Used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
SASB Disclosure Metrics are noted in blue font
GOVERNANCE
84852-9
2-12
2-13
2-14
2-15
2-16
2-17
2-18
2-19
2-20
2-21
Describe composition of highest governing   
body and its committees
Role of the highest governance body/senior 
executives in developing policies and goals  
related to sustainable development
Describe the role of the highest governance  
body in overseeing processes to identify  
and manage impacts on the economy,  
environment and people
Describe the role of the highest governance  
body in reviewing the effectiveness of  
processes and report frequency of this review
Delegation of responsibility for managing 
impacts on economy, environment and people
Frequency for senior executives to report 
to highest governing body on impacts to 
economy, environment and people
Report whether highest governance body is 
responsible for reviewing and approving the reported 
information; describe process for review and approval
Describe process for highest governing body 
to prevent/mitigate conflicts of interest
Conflicts disclosed to stakeholders
Whether critical concerns are communicated  
to highest governing body
Number and nature of critical concerns  
communicated during reporting period
Measures to advance knowledge of highest  
governance body on sustainable development
Process for evaluating performance of the  highest 
governance body in overseeing management of 
impacts on the economy, environment and people
Whether evaluations are independent and frequency
Actions taken in response to evaluations
Describe the remuneration policies for members of 
the highest governance body and senior executives
Describe how remuneration policies relate to 
objectives and performance in relation to managing 
impacts on economy, environment and people
Describe process to design remuneration policies and 
determine remuneration
Ratio of total annual compensation of highest-paid  
individual to median annual compensation for all employeesReport results of votes of shareholders on 
remuneration policies and proposalsReport Page 38-41
2022 Proxy Statement page 10
2022 Proxy Statement page 10
2022 Proxy Statement page 10
2022 Proxy Statement pages 18, 19-38
2022 Proxy Statement pages 19-32
2022 Proxy Statement page 382022 Proxy Statement pages 18, 19-38
Form 8-K filed May 5, 20222022 Proxy Statement page 4
Report pages 38-41, 72-73; 2022 Proxy Statement page 4
2022 Proxy Statement page 4; periodic review as needed
2022 Proxy Statement page 4, 9-10; ESG Policy pages 4-5
Report pages 38-41
Our Board of T rustees reviews and approve our corporate responsibility 
report and quarterly SEC reports prior to release/filing.
Report pages 72-78; Corporate Governance 
Guidelines
2022 Proxy Statement pages 7, 11, 41-42
2022 Proxy Statement page 8
NoneNomination and selection of the highest  
governance body and committees
Criteria used for  nominating and selecting  
the highest governance body members
Chair of the highest governance body2022 Proxy Statement pages 11-14
2022 Proxy Statement pages 11-14
2022 Proxy Statement page 62022 Proxy Statement pages 6-7, 12-13
2-10
2-11Committees with responsibility for overseeing  
impact on economy, environment and people2022 Proxy Statement pages 9-10STRATEGIES, POLICIES, AND PRACTICES   DISCLOSURE RESPONSE
2-22
IF-RE-130a.5
Entire Report; more specifically, pages 10, 30-33
Code of Business Conduct , Human Rights Policy , Vendor Code of Conduct
Human Rights Policy , Vendor Code of Conduct
Code of Business Conduct , Human Rights Policy , Vendor Code of Conduct
Policies were reviewed and approved by our Board of T rustees and a senior  
executive within the organization
Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights Policy, Vendor Code of Conduct
Via external website, contracts, internal website and internal discussions and educationStatement about relevance of sustainable 
development
Policy commitments for responsible business 
conduct  
Commitments with respect to Human Rights
Provide links to policy commitments
Highest level of approval within the organization
Extent to which policy commitments apply to 
activities and business relationships
Describe how policy comments are 
communicated to workers and other parties
Describe how policy commitments are 
embedded for responsible business conduct 
through activities and business relationships
Describe commitments to cooperate in 
remediation of negative impacts
Describe mechanisms for individuals to  
seek advice on business conduct and  
raise concerns
Report industry associations, etc. in which it 
participates in a significant roleReport total number of significant instances  
of non-compliance with laws, etc.
Report monetary value of fines for  
non-compliance
Describe how determine significant instances 
of non-complianceDescribe approach to identifying and 
addressing grievances
Describe process for remediation of  
negative impacts
Describe how organization tracks 
effectiveness of grievance process and 
remediation mechanismsAll employees are required to comply with our policies and procedures and responsibility 
for enforcing compliance lies at all levels of the organization with specific responsibility 
depending on the particular group and reporting structure for that group.  Employees 
initiating business relationships are responsible for confirming that the other party 
operates its business in a reputable manner that is consistent with the quality and 
reputation of our organization.  Internal controls requiring more senior level approvals 
before entering into contracts that establish our business relationships provide ongoing 
conversation, education and training on our various commitments.
Our primary exposure for negative impacts is environmental contamination at one of 
our properties arising prior to or during our ownership generally from the operations of 
one or more tenants who have operated at the property.  We provide in all leases various 
provisions requiring tenants to refrain from activities that could cause environmental 
contamination and to clean up any contamination they cause.  We undertake to 
remediate any environmental contamination of which we are aware as required under 
various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations.
For any employee or other person or entity with close contacts in the organization, 
advice can be sought from and concerns can be raised with either the office of the 
General Counsel or the Human Resources Department, the primary groups responsible 
for monitoring compliance with our policies and procedures.  Employees as well as 
outside parties can also call, on an anonymous basis, into our whistleblower hot line with 
the number for that hot line available in a number of locations internally as well as on our 
public website.  Lastly, issues can also be raised directly with our Board of T rustees using 
the communication methodology posted on our website and in our public documents.
National Association of Real Estate Investment T rusts (including CEO Council for 
Diversity); ICSC; Urban Land Institute; Montgomery County Chamber of CommerceNone
None
Assessment based on severity and financial magnitude of any non-complianceWe generally become aware of issues through notification from a governmental authority 
or from our own investigation and testing prior to acquisition of properties and as part 
of our ongoing operation of our properties.  Although matters could proceed through 
litigation and government enforcement, we typically work with government agencies to 
resolve issues prior to legal enforcement actions being taken or fines being assessed.
We evaluate properties prior to acquiring them and continually monitor assets we own 
to identify any potential environmental issues.  Remediation of issues identified are 
included as part of the operating plans for that asset over time.
Effectiveness of the grievance mechanisms is demonstrated by receiving a final notice 
from the applicable governmental authority indicating that remediation has been 
completed to their satisfaction and the property now meets applicable standards.2-23
2-24
2-25
2-26
2-27
2-28
8687
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
MATERIALITY
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
ANTI-CORRUPTION  
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR  DISCLOSURE RESPONSE
2-29
2-30
201-1
205-2201-2
205-3
206-1201-3
Federal Realty regularly touches based with its stakeholders including investors, employees, 
tenants, shopping center customers, and more to assess material topics. The topics listed 
below have been identified to be the most material to our business, through the lens of ESG. 
Material T opics in Alphabetical Order and references to where management strategy is 
discussed:
    - Adherence to ethical business policies and practices: Report pages 75-76; 2022 Proxy  
       statement page 6
    - Assessing, and addressing risks posed due to climate change: Report pages 38-41
    - Controlling energy cost/use: Report pages 24-33, 38-41
    - Health & Safety of employees: Report page 69
    - Managing GHG emissions: Report pages 24-27
    - Policies and initiatives to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion:  
       Report pages 23-24, 64-67
    - Responsible corporate governance practices: Report pages 72-79; 2022 Proxy  
       statement pages 5-6Approach to engaging with stakeholders
Report percentage of total employees 
covered by collective bargaining agreements
Direct economic value generated and 
distributed on an accrual basis
Number and percentage of governance 
body that anti-corruption policies have been 
communicated to
Number and percentage of employees 
that anti-corruption policies have been 
communicated to
Percentage of governance body members 
received training on anti-corruption
Percentage of employees body members 
received training on anti-corruptionRisks and opportunities posed by climate 
change that can generate substantive 
changes in operations, revenue or 
expenditure
T otal number of confirmed incidents of 
corruption
Legal actions pending or completed 
regarding anti-competitive behavior,  
anti-trust and monopoly practicesDefined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plansMaterial T opics and Management of  
Material T opicsThe interaction with stakeholders varies depending on the stakeholder group and ranges 
from frequent interpersonal interaction to communication through electronic platforms.
0%
2021 Form 10-K pages 32-53
100%
100%
100% of Board of T rustees receive information on Code of Business Conduct
100% of employees receive training on our Code of Business ConductReport pages 38-41; 2021 Form 10-K pages 12, 15
There were no confirmed incidents of corruption of any type in 2021.
There were no pending or completed legal actions in 2021 relating to any type of  
anti-competitive behavior or violations of anti-trust or monopoly legislation2021 Form 10-K page F-303-1, 3-2; 3-3
IF-RE-450a.2ENERGYDISCLOSURE RESPONSE
302-1
302-2
302-3
302-4
303-5
304-1
304-2IF-RE-103a.1, 
IF-RE-130a.2
IF-RE-130a.3
IF-RE-140a.1
T otal fuel consumption within the organization from non-renewable sources: 634,799 therms
T otal fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources: 0
T otal electricity consumption: 73,907,195 kWh. Includes all electricity use attributable to 
Federal in 2021; this is 100% coverage for landlord controlled electric usage. 8% of electricity 
consumed was supplied by onsite solar arrays owned by Federal Realty (SRECs are sold in 
some instances)
T otal electricity sold: 39,747,536 kWh. Includes solar production and grid-purchased 
electricity that is billed back to tenants in 2021
T otal energy consumption within the organization: 92,513,149 kWh. Includes 100% of fuel and 
electricity usage attributable to Federal in 2021
Statement prepared in consultation with RE T ech Advisors. Conversion factors from EPA 
eGRID and US Climate Registry
Measured energy consumption outside of the organization: 102,923,988 kWh
Measured + Estimated energy consumption outside of the organization: 598,293,264kWh
Calculated in consultation with RE T ech Advisors in accordance with the GHG Protocol. 
Measured energy consumption includes energy purchased by Federal and allocated to 
tenants as well as aggregate usage data provided by utilities. This represents 17,500,739 
Gross SF (51% of total Gross SF) covered.
Estimated energy consumption is estimated energy usage for those spaces where we do not 
have actual data. Estimates were calculated using the nationally recognized CBECs dataset. 
Data was estimated for 16,504,734 Gross SF (49% of total SF). 
Conversion factors from EPA eGRID and US Climate Registry
2021 FRIT Attributable Electricity intensity: 2.17 kWh/sq ft; 2021 Site Energy Use Intensity:  
2.72 kWh/sq ft
Intensity metrics calculated using FRIT attributable energy consumption, divided by total 
gross floor area of Federal’s portfolio 
Site EUI includes 100% of Scopes 1 and 2 fuel consumption and electricity
Intensity metrics include energy consumption within the organization
Report pages 28-29;  
Like for like FRIT attributable electric consumption for assets in operation and owned by 
Federal Realty at least since January 1, 2019, which represents 86% of the total number of 
owned assets as of 12/31/2021:  
   - 2019 : 65,033,538 kWh  
   - 2020 : 61,085,592 kWh  
   - 2021 : 63,642,604 kWhEnergy consumption within the organization
Energy consumption outside of the organization
Energy intensity
Reduction of energy consumption
Water consumption
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas
Significant impacts of activities, products, and 
services on biodiversity2021 municipally supplied landlord controlled water (including common area 
and vacant space): 253,761 CCF 
ESG Policy page 11 ; Report pages 34-35
ESG Policy page 11 ; Report pages 34-35; 36% of properties, by asset value, have a LEED or 
IREM certification obtained by Federal Realty lessening the impact of activities, products, 
and services on biodiversity
WATER AND EFFLUENTS  
BIODIVERSITY
8889
EMISSIONS   
WASTE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCEDISCLOSURE RESPONSE
305-1
306-3, 306-4, 
306-5
307-1305-2
305-3
305-4
305-5Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Waste generated, diverted from disposal, 
directed to disposal
Non-compliance with environmental laws 
and regulationsEnergy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
GHG emissions intensity
Reduction of GHG emissions2021 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions: 3,372 MT CO2e; represents 100% data 
coverage of Scope 1. Calculated in consultation with RE T ech Advisors in accordance 
with the GHG Protocal Corporate Standard, organizational control method. Emissions 
factors from EPA eGRID and US Climate Registry. 
Report page 37
 
T otal weight of waste generated: 42,437 metric tons
 
T otal weight diverted from landfill: 13,701 metric tons
T otal weight directed to landfill: 28,737 metric tons
 
Diversion rate: 32%
Federal is in the process of working with governmental agencies on remediating 
environmental conditions at our properties that are required to be remediated at this 
time. We have not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or 
regulations that must be remediated at this time other than matters which are currently 
being addressed. We did not incur any fines or non-monetary sanctions for  
non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations.2021 Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions: 11,424 MT CO2e; represents 100% data 
coverage of Scope 2. Calculated in consultation with RE T ech Advisors in accordance 
with the GHG Protocal Corporate Standard, organizational control method. Emissions 
factors from EPA eGRID and US Climate Registry.
2021 Scope 3 market based emissions: 180,317 MtCo2e
 
Reported Scope 3 includes both measured and estimated tenant emissions, measured 
Federal Realty Business T ravel, estimed Federal Realty Employee Commuting, and 
Emissions associated with waste generated on our properties.
 
Calculated in consultation with RE T ech Advisors in accordance with GHG Protocal 
Corporate Standard, organizational control method. Emissions factors from EPA eGRID 
and US Climate Registry. Estimates calculated using CBECs data. 
2021 greenhouse gas emissions intensity: .0004 MtCO2e/sq ft using total portfolio gross 
floor area. Includes scopes 1 and 2 emissions.
Report page 32
 Location Based Market Based Location Based Market Based
2019          19,974                              16,441            22,567         18,772 
2020          21,062         15,792             23,662         18,026 
2021          20,162         12,284             24,626          14,841  IF-RE-410a.3
Like for Like Scope 1 & 2 MtCO2e Absolute Scope 1 & 2 MtCO2e 
EMPLOYMENT
OCCUPATIONAL HEAL TH & SAFETY   DISCLOSURE
DISCLOSURERESPONSE
RESPONSE401-1
401-2
401-3
403-2
New Hires: 45; 29 women (64%) and 16 men (36%); 14 under 30 (31%), 22 between 30-50 
(49%) and 9 over 50 (20%)
T erminations: 44 (32 voluntary and 12 involuntary); 15 women (34%) and 29 men (66%);  
5 under 30 (11%), 25 between 30-50 (57%) and 14 over 50 (32%)
Federal offers parental leave to birth mothers through short-term disability and accrued paid 
time off and offers non-birth parents the right to take leave using accrued paid time off. 
Generous leave and accrual policy allows employees to accrue and carry over 320 sick hours 
and 320 vacation hours each year. 
T otal number of employees entitled to parental leave by gender: 7 men; 7 women
T otal number of employees that took parental leave by gender: 1 man; 7 women
T otal number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended by gender:  
1 man; 7 women
T otal number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still 
employed 12 months after their return to work by gender: 0 men; 7 women
Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave by gender:  
100% men; 100% womenReport pages 58-69;  In addition to providing market-competitive compensation through 
a base salary and annual bonus, we also provide all of our year-round full- and part-time 
employees with a wide range of other benefits.
Medical, dental, and vision insurance to support the health and wellbeing of our employees 
and their families, with different options depending on personal and family needs.
Basic life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment, and short- and long-term disability 
insurance.
Paid vacation, personal days, sick time, and company holidays to encourage time away from 
work. Generous leave and accrual policy allows employees to accrue and carry over 320 sick 
hours and 320 vacation hours each year.
Company-matching contributions to a 401K retirement savings plan for all full- and part-time 
employees.  All employees are automatically enrolled when they join the company.
Paid day off to volunteer at election polls in presidential elections.
$15 per hour minimum wage for all year-round full- and part-time employees.
Employee assistance programs to provide help on topics including emotional health, 
counseling and well-being, work-life balance as well as financial and legal advice.
Flexible spending and health savings accounts to allow employees to pay for certain medical 
expenses with pre-tax dollars.
An employee stock purchase plan to allow employees a simple way to acquire company stock 
without commissions.
Discounts on rent at company-owned apartment complexes.
Added benefits like flexible work arrangements, bagel Wednesday, frequent retailer-offered 
discounts, fitness center reimbursements, casual office dress every day, free parking at our 
offices, and commuter benefits.Number and rate of new employees
Number and rate of turnover
Benefits that are standard for full time 
employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employees
Parental leave
Description of process to identify  
work-related hazards
Process for workers to report work-related 
hazardsFederal complies with all applicable laws regarding workplace safety.
Employees are encouraged to identify and advise the appropriate person in the office of 
any potential hazard.
9091
TRAINING AND EDUCATION   
NON-DISCRIMINATION   
LOCAL COMMUNITIES   
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS   
CUSTOMER HEAL TH & SAFETY   DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY   404-1
406-1
413-1
415-1
416-1405-1404-2
404-3403-9
403-10
Average hours of training
T otal number of incidents of discrimination
Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments and 
development programs
Political contributions
Assessment of the health and safety impacts 
of products and service categoriesPercentage of individuals in governance 
bodies in each diversity categoryType and scope of programs implemented 
and assistance provided to upgrade 
employee skills.
Percentage of employees in each diversity 
categoryPercentage and total employees who 
receive regular performance and career 
development reviewNumber and rate of fatalities
Number and rate of high consequence 
injuries
Number and rate of recordable work  
related injuries
Number of fatalities from work-related 
ill-health  
Number of cases of recordable work-related 
ill health
All employees are encouraged to participate in both internal and external training 
opportunities and we make money available on an annual basis to support external 
training. We know that significant time is spent each year by employees participating in 
webinars, conferences and other internal/external programs and continuing education 
opportunities; however, we do not track or ask our employees to track the time they 
spend each year on these activities.  We do not believe that tracking participation in these 
trainings would increase employee participation or believe there is any added value for our 
organization or our employees to track participation for the sake of tracking and reporting.
There were no reported incidents of discrimination in 2021.
Report pages 42-54 and ESG Policy page 19
Report page 78 and Political Contributions Policy
All of our properties are inspected on a regular basis for potential health and safety 
violations by both our internal team as well as third parties.  Inspections cover all aspects 
of the properties relating to health and safety including spaces controlled by tenants.   
We also regularly monitor the environmental condition of our properties for any potentially 
dangerous conditions and engage in remediation activities as needed.  In any new 
acquisitions, we also perform detailed inspections of the environmental and physical 
condition of the asset and incorporate a capital investment plan as part of our acquisition 
decision to correct any issues that do not meet our standards.Board of T rustees: 43% women and 57% men; 100% over 50; 14% diverse
Executive T eam: 33% women and 67% men; 13% between 30-50 and 87% over 50; 0% diverse
Investment Committee: 25% women and 75% men; 100% over 50; 25% diverse
Gender: 55% women and 45% men
Age: Under 30 - 7%; 30-50 - 56%; over 50 - 37%
Diversity: Diverse - 30%; non-diverse - 70%Report page 61
All employees are eligible to receive formal written or oral annual performance reviews.None
None
None
None
None
403-2 Description of process to investigate and 
identify work related hazardsIf an issue is identified, Federal works to promptly correct the issue and to cause the 
problem to be made safe pending a correction.  Any injuries are reported to our Human 
Resources team and to our worker’s compensation insurer.federalrealty.com
92