2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATEGOALS &  
PROGRESS2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 2Our annual Global Citizenship Report (GCR) tracks enterprisewide strategies, 
goals, programs and progress for our fiscal year across four key areas of  
our business:
•	Economics & Access: increase global commerce sustainably for 
communities and shareholders
•	Environment & Efficiency: create more efficient networks while 
minimizing our footprint
•	Community & Disaster Relief: leverage our infrastructure and our people  
to help communities worldwide
•	People & Workplace: foster a culture dedicated to making every FedEx 
experience outstanding
Our FY12 report covers our fiscal year 2012, which ended May 31, 2012, and 
includes data from each of our operating companies and geographies unless 
otherwise stated. We began annual reporting of our global citizenship efforts 
in 2008, with our FedEx Office division producing its first sustainability report 
under the Kinko’s brand name in 2003, prior to being acquired by FedEx. Our 
FY12 report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines. 
Moving forward, we anticipate our annual GCR to publish following the end 
of our fiscal year, and we will continue to monitor trends and opportunities 
to evolve our report, including quarterly updates and more localized reporting 
efforts by geography.
Several governing bodies oversee our reporting efforts across our enterprise. 
In 2011, we reconstituted our governance oversight with the FedEx Enterprise 
Sustainability Council (FESC), a senior officer council that develops and guides 
implementation of our environmental sustainability strategy and EarthSmart® 
platform. Additionally, senior executives oversee our corporate philanthropy 
strategy through the Corporate Contributions Committee. Each FedEx operating 
company’s Human Resources department actively manages strategies and 
issues pertaining to team member engagement and development. Corporate 
Human Resources centralizes coordination of efforts and manages executive 
development, employee benefits and diversity strategies at the enterprise level.
For more insight into our goals, progress, scope, materiality and measurement 
approach, please reference each report associated with our four focus areas.  
A full index of GRI indicators and reference material can be found by visiting  
csr.fedex.com  and at the end of this report.Letter from the Chairman and CEO
Economics & Access
Environment & Efficiency
Community & Disaster Relief
People & Workplace
Global Reporting Initiative IndexABOUT THIS REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 3 We also see social responsibility as an engine of innovation. Working toward 
greater sustainability and citizenship has led us to develop myriad new 
programs and processes that deliver greater opportunities for our customers, our 
communities, and our planet. Innovation in social responsibility is also a way to 
inspire our team to think “glocally” and ignite big ideas into smaller,  
local applications.
ENERGY INNOVATION
As a big consumer of oil, FedEx committed years ago to monitor our footprint 
across the industry and the globe. We continue to focus on alternative transport 
fuel sources such as electricity, natural gas, and biofuels.
Through the Energy Security Leadership Council (ESLC), we’ve worked with 
business and military leaders to effect energy legislation in both the Obama 
and Bush administrations. Through FedEx advocacy, we supported new fuel-
efficiency standards for commercial vehicles. We‘ve advocated new aviation 
technologies that improve safety and reduce fuel consumption. We’ve worked to 
develop new national policies for highway investments to reduce congestion and 
save energy.  
At the same time, we’ve committed to a lighter environmental footprint. In 
2008, we set a goal of improving the overall fuel efficiency of the FedEx Express 
vehicle fleet 20% by 2020. Now, less than five years later, FedEx Express has 
surpassed that goal. So we’re upping the ante and are now targeting a 30% 
improvement in fuel efficiency for our global express vehicle fleet by 2020, based 
on a 2005 baseline. This echoes last year’s announcement to raise our aircraft 
emissions intensity goal from a 20% to a 30% reduction in emissions intensity 
by 2020.GRASSROOTS SAVVY
While we are proud of the broad changes we have kindled as a company, we 
realize our sustainability efforts don’t just come from the top of the organization. 
We have plenty of grassroots champions. Some 300,000 FedEx team members 
around the world are often a creative impetus for our problem-solving through 
their diverse outlooks and great ideas.
For example, a FedEx team in Brazil had been recycling for years but decided to 
expand their impact by donating their recyclables to nonprofit organizations.  
One of those nonprofits helped disadvantaged mothers turn recycled materials 
into stylish bags that brought income to their families. Other Brazilian team 
members worked with a university biofuel program to reuse motor and cooking 
oil. To date, they’ve recycled nearly 4,000 liters of oil to help power more than  
28 tractors and heavy vehicles.
In addition, we cultivate entrepreneurs who strive toward sustainability. For 
the first time, we awarded small-business grants totaling $50,000 to six small 
businesses. Darn Good Yarn in Maine received one of those grants due to 
their production of yarn made from remnants of silk saris. These materials 
are handspun and dyed by women in India and Nepal, who receive wages 
for their work and a marketplace for their goods: proof once again that social 
responsibility can lead to global growth and local success.
WHAT’S AHEAD
We’re pleased with our progress, but there’s so much more to be done. So 
what’s on the horizon for FedEx?TO GROW A LOCAL ECONOMY, CONNECT TO THE WORLD.Letter from the Chairman and CEO
At FedEx, we’ve seen the great results of connecting people and possibilities around the 
world, and we realize the success of communities and companies are intertwined. That’s 
why we put such emphasis on the social responsibility connection. Through it we can drive 
positive change in our cities, marketplaces, and society at large. Plus, it’s good business  
and a wise investment in the future of FedEx.2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 4From an advocacy standpoint, we will champion more research on vehicle 
batteries and practical applications of natural gas for transportation.  
We’ll recommend more streamlined permitting processes for major energy 
projects. And we’ll urge additional funding for the development of advanced 
biofuels. In fact, FedEx will be collaborating with The Nature Conservancy to 
help create a biofuels roadmap for the long-distance road transport sector.
We will continue collaborating with sectors such as utilities, manufacturing, 
transportation, academia, and government to expand the range of all-electric 
vehicles and produce cost-effective biofuels. As always, FedEx will put safety 
above all other considerations in transportation innovations.
As you read the 2012 Global Citizenship Report, you’ll see that it takes a  
broader, more data-driven approach. We’re adding metrics recognized globally 
as important indications of a company’s commitment to social responsibility. 
These metrics align with the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Guidelines for  
more standardized and transparent reporting.
I encourage you to read the stories in this report: the people-to-people 
connections they describe will surely surprise and inspire you. They also 
reflect the commitment of our entire FedEx team to higher standards of global 
citizenship and to delivering more possibilities for people everywhere.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
Frederick W. Smith  
Chairman and CEO, FedEx CorporationLetter from the Chairman and CEO
ECONOMICS & 
ACCESS
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATEEconomics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 2TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION  3  
EMPOWERING LOCAL BUSINESSES TO DRIVE GLOBAL GROWTH  3
 Small-Business Trade Education  4
DRIVING MORE SUSTAINABLE TRADE PATTERNS  5
FEDEX OPERATING COMPANIES  6
 FedEx Economic Impact  7
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  7
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  8
 Revenue  8
 Operating Income  8
 Operating Margin  8
 Net Income  8
 Diluted Earnings per Share  8
 Capital Expenditures  8
 Debt to Total Capitalization  8
 
All currencies are translated in U.S. dollars.Economics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 3Since our first express flight more than 40 years ago, we’ve been in the business 
of building a globally connected economy. Our purpose is greater than the 
number of packages that move through our network. It’s about providing a means 
for people to connect with opportunity. 
At FedEx, we see a direct correlation between an individual’s ability to prosper 
and his or her ability to access the ideas, goods and services that fuel a global 
marketplace. It’s a simple formula: When global connections form, local 
economies grow.
In a time of economic uncertainty and change, our purpose has not wavered. 
An important part of restoring global economic growth is recognizing the 
importance of international trade and removing trade barriers. As barriers fall, 
more businesses gain the ability to access more markets and more opportunity. 
Expanding access to global markets brings people out of poverty, and we’ve 
seen the global poverty rate drop by more than 20 percentage points over the 
last two decades, according to the World Bank. Global poverty remains a very 
real issue, but we see more people in emerging markets improving their quality 
of life and people in established markets remaining resilient because of their 
ability to access new opportunities.
Expanding global access has changed trade patterns and supply chains 
dramatically. We are constantly adapting our networks to these changing 
patterns so that businesses can access new opportunities and compete 
effectively. And as more people enter the global middle class, we’ll continue 
to advocate for the expansion of trade and the removal of barriers to global 
connection, because when global connections form, people prosper.
Entrepreneurship is up 60% in the U.S. since last year, according to the 2011 
Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, and we believe global trade can help these 
new businesses grow and, in turn, help their communities grow. In fact, U.S. 
businesses that trade globally tend to have higher sales, and their employees 
earn more, according to the U.S. Commercial Service. We believe the business 
community needs to work together to help businesses benefit from trade.  Since 
2009, we’ve collaborated with public and private organizations, helping more 
than 55,000 businesses connect to trade resources and expertise, including 
market opportunity analysis and business planning. Our support for the U.S. 
Small Business Saturday® and our new small-business grants are helping current 
businesses sell more and new ones take root.
When we improve the efficiency of how our customers access the market in 
terms of speed, cost and sustainability, we see the returns for our business, 
shareholders and the communities in which we operate.EMPOWERING LOCAL BUSINESSES TO 
DRIVE GLOBAL GROWTH
FedEx has long recognized that small businesses are important to the health of 
the global economy. Innovations hatched by small businesses play a big role in 
driving investment and growth. The expansion of global trade has brought new 
opportunities for small businesses, even during the recent recession.
 
Markets such as China and India, with their growing middle classes, are moving 
from just producing to producing and consuming, and their purchasing power 
is growing. To grow and be competitive, small businesses need to be able 
to trade in a global market. In fact, U.S. companies that trade internationally 
tend to grow faster, create more jobs and their employees earn more than in 
nonexporting firms, according to the U.S. Commercial Service. Still, many small 
businesses remain slow to go global. For example, only about one in every 100 
U.S. small businesses markets products abroad. 
Much of the hesitation comes from the daunting nature of export regulations. 
Small businesses simply don’t have the resources to navigate through complex 
customs rules. They need a level playing field that enables them to tap into the 
billions of people entering the global middle class. FedEx actively works with the 
greater business community, including the U.S. Commerce Department and U.S. 
Commercial Service, to provide knowledge, resources, grants and free services 
to help small businesses overcome these issues, allowing them to find the 
opportunities that global markets offer. OTTERBOX 
Based in Fort Collins, Colo., OtterBox makes protective cases for 
handheld devices such as mobile phones and tablets. Despite the 
economic downturn, the company’s revenue shot up more than 3,000% 
from 2008 to 2011. Demand abroad for OtterBox accelerated. The 
small company needed flexibility, speed and the ability to anticipate 
and adapt to demand and to put the right amount of product at the 
right place at the right time. FedEx helped not only by providing 
fast logistics, but also by sharing our deep global expertise on the 
regulatory, customs and overall business environments in many world 
markets that were new to OtterBox. The relationship between FedEx 
and OtterBox now spans three continents. Meanwhile, OtterBox 
has become a bedrock for the Fort Collins community, buying and 
renovating property and consistently creating new jobs. WE CONNECT MORE THAN JUST GOODS 
WITH MARKETPLACES. WE CONNECT 
PEOPLE WITH OPPORTUNITY.  Economics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 4PIONEERING TRADE EDUCATION AND PLANNING
FedEx, together with the Florida District Export Council and the U.S. Commercial 
Service, pioneered a new approach to trade education designed by exporters for 
exporters. The result: Export University.  Export University addresses some of the 
most common exporting challenges for our customers — exploring new markets, 
navigating regulatory compliance, understanding export finance and finding 
new buyers.  By concentrating on these areas of export education, we can offer 
the most relevant information to our customers, especially to those small and 
medium enterprises that need it the most. Recently we facilitated an Export U 
strategic planning session in Memphis to improve and standardize materials and 
create a national go-to-market strategy. Currently offered in just over 14 markets, 
the plan outlines a path to reach up to 52 markets by the end of 2013. 
Every year, we also sponsor an average of 100 events as a part of our trade 
education effort known as FedEx Know and GrowSM. FedEx Know and Grow 
is an all-inclusive program that brings export education opportunities to the 
public. Through slightly more than 400 programs since 2009, we estimate we 
have connected more than 55,000 business owners with export expansion 
opportunities and resources.
Small-Business Trade Education
The average business attending a FedEx Know and Grow program reported a 
sales increase of up to $772,000 and an expense reduction of up to $150,000 
in the first six months after completing the program, according to a survey 
jointly conducted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the 
Manufacturing Extension Partnership. 
In addition to these programs, we work closely with a number of trade promotion 
organizations and alliance groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the 
Export-Import Bank and the National Association of Manufacturers, to advocate 
the benefits of trade. FedEx leverages these leadership positions to have a 
positive effect on the perception of trade and to advocate for more open markets 
and fair opportunities for our customers.  
Globally, we are aligned with trade organizations including Asia Pacific Economic 
Cooperation, AmCham (the network of American Chamber of Commerce 
affiliates outside the U.S.) and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  Over 
the past several years, we have sponsored or conducted several trade missions, 
video conferences, cultural events and seminars across the globe, including France, Germany, Africa, Brazil, Mexico, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Hong 
Kong, Malaysia and Japan. 
We also offer free advice to small-business owners who join the FedEx Get 
AheadSM program. Through this service, we work with business owners to 
identify ways to gain competitive advantage, streamline operations and increase 
sales, and we offer guidance for expanding into international markets. 
SMALL-BUSINESS GRANTS, SPONSORSHIPS AND AWARDS
For the past three years, we have participated in Small Business Saturday®, an 
effort first conceived by American Express® to encourage holiday shoppers to 
support their local communities. For the past two years, we have given away 
40,000 American Express® Shop Small® $25 Gift Cards to consumers. This effort  
hopes to direct $1 million toward purchases at local, independent retailers.  
In the fall of 2012, we launched our first nationwide small-business grant 
contest, which awarded a total of $50,000 to six U.S. small businesses. The 
first-place winner received a $25,000 grant, and the remaining five winners 
were awarded grants of $5,000 each. These grants are another way FedEx gives 
entrepreneurs with good ideas access to opportunity. 
DARN GOOD YARN WINS FEDEX SMALL-BUSINESS GRANT 
Darn Good Yarn , a small business based in Sebec, Maine, has been 
named the grand prize winner of the first nationwide FedEx Small 
Business Grant Competition and received a $25,000 grant to invest in 
and further grow its business. 
Nicole Snow founded Darn Good Yarn in 2008. All yarn sold by Darn 
Good Yarn is made from recycled, Earth-friendly materials, and much 
of it is created from remnants of the production of silk saris. These 
materials are handspun and dyed by women’s groups in northern India 
and Nepal, who are provided with a marketplace for their products 
and much needed wages for their families. All yarns are fairly traded 
and produced with child-free labor. 
“This grant from FedEx will allow me to hire more women in Nepal  
and India, giving them independence and a means to support their 
families while also providing Darn Good Yarn with more product to 
sell,” said Snow. “FedEx has provided a way for me to further follow 
my dream of running a successful small business while doing good in 
the global community.”
Small businesses (those with fewer than 100 employees) competed 
for the grants by completing a profile that was voted on by Facebook 
users. FedEx reviewed the entries and selected the finalists based 
on their contest profile and the number of votes they received from 
Facebook users. FedEx also awarded grants of $5,000 each to five 
additional small businesses.
Economics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 5DRIVING MORE SUSTAINABLE  
TRADE PATTERNS
FedEx plays a significant role in helping businesses adapt to changing trade 
patterns and driving new forms of connectivity — all in an increasingly 
sustainable way. We actively advocate for removing barriers to free trade so 
economies can adapt to these changes more efficiently.  
FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OPPORTUNITIES
FedEx advocates for free trade agreements (FTAs), such as the recent U.S. 
agreements with Panama, South Korea and Colombia, and for the removal  
of barriers, such as outdated customs regulations, that make trade slow  
and inefficient.  
FTA Facts at a Glance:ACCESSING TRADE MORE EFFICIENTLY
Our business is designed to adapt to changing trade patterns so our customers 
can continue to access opportunity efficiently and more sustainably. It’s about 
adding more competitive lanes that track with trade flows, using more efficient 
modes of transportation and putting the right resources in the right places.  
Our 777F aircraft offer a competitive and more sustainable advantage for our 
customers: Cutoff times are extended, and the 777F reduces fuel consumption 
and C02 emissions by 18% compared to the MD-11 aircraft it replaces. We 
recently added a new, nonstop 777F route between our World Hub in Memphis 
and Taipei. In 2011, bilateral trade between the U.S. and Taiwan reached $67 
billion, and the U.S. remains one of Taiwan’s top three business partners.
Our 777Fs also connect routes from Guangzhou and Shanghai in China to 
Europe. Shanghai is a major economic center in China, and Shanghai Pudong 
International Airport is expected to become the world’s top air cargo hub by 2015. 
FedEx will open a new logistics hub at Pudong in early 2017. Not only has the 
region’s GDP increased by more than 8% over the last three years, but the city’s 
foreign trade volume surged more than 32% and 18% year-over-year in 2010 and 
2011, respectively. The new FedEx logistics hub will help facilitate that growth  
in international trade, most notably between eastern China, the United States 
and Europe. 
For more information on how we’re keeping our commitment to operate more 
efficiently and responsibly, please see the Environment  & Efficiency  section  
of this report.
MANAGING FOR SPEED, FLEXIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
All of our operating companies relentlessly adjust their networks to meet 
changing traffic fl ows and levels. Each network is discrete, so it can optimize 
its business with laserlike focus and without compromise. Our evolving 
operations structure positions FedEx perfectly for emerging new trading and 
shipping patterns worldwide, including the e-commerce boom, down-trading  
by domestic and international customers and the possibility of further  
near-sourcing by customers. 
For instance, we added nonstop SuperExpressFreighter flights from Taiwan and 
Milan in the fall of 2012 to give our customers in those markets unprecedented 
service options to the U.S. We are growing the FedEx Express domestic networks 
organically in Europe and China. We made acquisitions in France, Poland and 
Brazil to strengthen our networks’ connections to those countries. We have 
significantly expanded FedEx Trade Networks to take advantage of the shift of 
some commodity airfreight to sea transport. We reconfigured FedEx Freight to 
offer customers two price options. We made freight shipping easier, and we now 
provide the fastest published transit times of any nationwide priotiry LTL service.THE KOREAN WAVE
“The Korean Wave” describes the increasing popularity of Korean 
products and culture in global markets — including clothing, 
cosmetics, cars, music and film. In 2011, the Korean economy realized 
an increase of $3.8 billion in revenue as a result of the increased 
interest in Korean products.
FedEx Express has launched a campaign to help small and medium-sized 
enterprises in Korea take advantage of the surge in global demand for 
Korean culture and products. The campaign helps activate business 
and export opportunities for Korean companies. FedEx Korea will 
hold a number of seminars for small and medium-sized enterprises, 
addressing the opportunities brought about by the Korean Wave. •	JOB CREATION: In the U.S., every billion dollars of goods and services 
exported in 2011 supported more than 5,000 jobs. 
•	PANAMA:  The FTA reduced tariffs that were as high as 81% on con -
struction and agricultural products and opened up markets for financial 
services and telecommunications. 
•	COLOMBIA: The country has a young and growing population with  
a median age of 28. Energy, mining and agriculture remain key sectors 
there, and the U.S. FTA should help Colombia’s economy grow. 
•	KOREA:  The FTA is estimated to boost U.S. exports to South Korea by 
$10 billion–$11 billion, and South Korean exports to the United States by 
nearly $7 billion. South Korea is a country dominated by young, technolo -
gy-savvy urbanites and is a magnet for business owners looking to import 
or export into this fast-growing, consumer-oriented culture. 
•	ELSEWHERE:  The U.S. is at the table with nearly a dozen other countries 
across the Asia Pacific Rim seeking to wrap up the Trans-Pacific Partner -
ship talks in the coming months.Economics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 6FEDEX OPERATING COMPANIES
FEDEX CORPORATION  provides customers and businesses worldwide with  
a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With 
FY12 annual revenues of $43 billion, the company offers integrated business 
applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed 
collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among 
the world’s most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires our more than 
300,000 team members to remain “absolutely, positively” focused on safety,  
the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers 
and communities.
FEDEX EXPRESS  invented express distribution and remains the industry’s 
global leader, providing rapid, reliable, time-definite delivery to more than 220 
countries and territories, connecting markets that comprise more than 90% of 
the world’s gross domestic product within 1 to 3 business days. Our unmatched 
air route expertise and transportation infrastructure, combined with leading-edge 
information technologies, make FedEx Express the world’s largest express 
transportation company, providing fast and reliable services for more than  
3.7 million shipments each business day. The FedEx Express segment also 
includes FedEx SupplyChain® Systems, which offers a range of supply  
chain solutions.
FEDEX TRADE NETWORKS  is the global freight forwarding arm of FedEx and 
keeps supply chains moving for customers of all sizes by providing flexible 
end-to-end services that include international air- and ocean-freight forwarding, 
customs brokerage, warehousing, distribution and trade-facilitation solutions. 
Customers can use FedEx Trade Networks services as an entire package or take 
advantage of individual services as needed.FEDEX GROUND  is a leading North American provider of ground small-package 
delivery services, providing service to the U.S. and Canada. FedEx Home 
Delivery®, the industry’s first ground service dedicated to residential delivery, 
also provides Saturday, evening and appointment delivery. FedEx Ground 
segment financial results include FedEx SmartPost, which specializes in the 
consolidation and delivery of high volumes of low-weight, less time-sensitive 
business-to-consumer packages using the U.S. Postal Service for final delivery  
to any residential address or post office box in the United States.
FEDEX FREIGHT is the North American market leader in providing less-than-
truckload (LTL) freight services across all lengths of haul. FedEx Freight segment 
financial results also include FedEx Custom Critical, North America’s largest 
time-specific, critical shipment carrier.
FEDEX SERVICES  operates combined sales, marketing, administrative and 
information technology functions in shared services operations that support our 
transportation businesses and allow us to obtain synergies from the combination 
of these functions. The FedEx Services segment includes: FedEx Services, 
which provides sales, marketing, information technology, communications and 
back-office support to our other companies; FedEx TechConnectSM, which is 
responsible for customer service, technical support, billings and collections for 
U.S. customers of our major business units; and FedEx Office, which provides an 
array of document and business services and retail access to our customers for 
our package transportation businesses. 
PROFIT IMPROVEMENT PLAN
We will continue to manage our business to meet changing market needs, while 
remaining profitable and upholding our dedication to our culture. In FY12, we did 
just that. Our revenues grew by 9% and our earnings per share by 40%. We did 
not achieve our goal of 10% operating margins, but we did reach 7.5%.
FY13, however, has seen a more challenging business environment — particularly 
for FedEx Express, as ongoing shifts from priority to deferred shipping services 
have significantly impacted profitability. In response to these trends, we recently 
announced a plan targeting annual profitability improvement of $1.7 billion by 
the end of FY16. The plan identifies several things the company will do, including 
reducing our costs, adjusting our transportation networks to meet changing 
customer needs and remaining dedicated to our people and culture, which have 
made us what we are today. In the face of a still unstable economic environment, 
shifting customer preferences and volatile fuel prices, we continue to adapt our 
networks, striking the right balance between volume and yield improvements. 
For more information on our financial performance and our profit improvement 
programs, go to the FedEx Investor Relations site at investors.fedex.com .
To read more about how our sustainability efforts are improving costs, please 
see our Environment & Efficiency  section of this report. You can also find out 
more about our recently announced employee voluntary buyout program and our 
Quality Driven Management program in our People & Workplace  section of  
this report. CONNECTING MORE WAYS TO MORE MARKETS
FedEx Trade Networks, the freight forwarding arm of FedEx, is in the 
midst of a multi-year organic growth strategy to improve the freight 
forwarding experience. We’ve opened more than 50 offices in 26 
countries since 2008, extending our number of worldwide locations 
to connect 91% of the global GDP . This expansion provides enhanced 
ocean and air solutions, unmatched visibility and greater reach for 
our customers. We help businesses of all sizes optimize their supply 
chains with the flexible service, transit and pricing options that fit their 
importing and exporting needs.
Demand for freight forwarding services now represents a multibillion- 
dollar global industry. By focusing our expansion on customer trends, 
including emerging markets like India, inland China and Latin America, 
we are positioned for continued growth. Our air- and ocean-freight 
forwarding solutions open up additional trade lanes, so that our 
customers can connect in more ways to more markets.Economics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 7AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 
FEDEX ECONOMIC IMPACT
FedEx has a strong economic impact on all the communities where 
we operate around the world. The impact starts with the salaries 
paid to our more than 300,000 team members. In FY12, more than 
37% of our operating expenses went into team members’ paychecks. 
In our hometown of Memphis, our hub cargo operations helped 
contribute to $27.1 billion of the Memphis International Airport’s 
annual economic impact, according to the latest research, a 2009 
study by the University of Memphis. The same study showed a huge 
ripple effect in employment in the Memphis area. Our operations 
helped support 208,319 jobs in the area, according to the study.
FedEx Economic Impact
•	2013, World’s Most Admired Companies, #10,  Fortune
•	2013, World’s Best CEOs, Barron’s
•	2013, U.S. Reputation Pulse, #23 , Reputation Institute
•	2013, Best Investor Relations in the Transport Sector, U.S.,  IR Magazine 
•	2013, Best Investor Relations Sustainability Practice, U.S.,  IR Magazine
•	2012, Top 5 Financial Disclosure Procedures, North America,   
IR Global Rankings
•	2012, Best All Cargo Airline, Asia, Cargonews AsiaEconomics & Access2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 8Debt to Total Capitalization
Revenue (in billions)
 Operating Margin
Diluted Earnings per Share Capital Expenditures (in billions)
Operating Income (in millions)
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Below is a synopsis of our financial results for FY10–FY12. For more  
context and our quarterly results, go to the FedEx Investor Relations site:  
investors.fedex.com . 
Net Income (in millions)
1  Results for 2011 include charges of approximately $199 million ($104 million, 
net of tax and applicable variable incentive compensation impacts, or $0.33 
per diluted share) for the combination of our FedEx Freight and FedEx National 
LTL operations and a reserve associated with a legal matter at FedEx Express.
 2  Results for 2012 include an impairment charge of $134 million ($84 million, 
net of tax, or $0.26 per diluted share) resulting from the decision to retire 24 
aircraft and related engines at FedEx Express and the reversal of a $66 million 
legal reserve that was initially recorded in 2011.ENVIRONMENT & 
EFFICIENCY
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATEEnvironment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 2TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION  3
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOALS  4
ENTERPRISE ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  6
 Enterprise CO2 Emissions  7
GREENING OUR FLEET  7
 Aircraft Emissions  7
 777F Trade Lanes  8
 Vehicle Fuel Efficiency  8
 Electric and Hybrid-Electric Fleet  9
 Clean Diesel Vans  10
GREENING OUR FACILITIES  11
 LEED-Certified Facilities  11
 Solar Electricity  12
 Renewable Energy Credits  12
WASTE AND RECYCLING  12
 Waste Streams  12
 Recycling Percentages  13
 Recycling Totals  13
 FedEx Paper Recycling  14
 Electronic Waste Recycling  14 
PAPER AND PACKAGING MATERIALS  15
 FSC-Certified Paper  15
 Electronic Trade Documents  16
BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION  16
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND POLICIES  17
 ISO 14001 Certification  17
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  18
APPENDIX: FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES  19
All currencies are translated in U.S. dollars.Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 3Our trucks, planes and facilities span more than 220 countries and territories, 
linking more than 90% of the world’s GDP . We move the global economy, and 
we are always looking for ways to do it while reducing our own environmental 
footprint and those of our customers.
Energy is a huge issue for our company — and for the world. Our own 
operations consume about 1.5 billion gallons of jet fuel, diesel and gasoline 
per year. Petroleum provides about 80% of the fuel used by the world’s 
transportation systems combined, and our industry faces significant challenges 
in terms of fuel price volatility and our sector’s contribution to global greenhouse 
gas emissions. No single solution can wean global transportation off oil. That’s 
why we are constantly testing new ideas across our network to see if they can 
meet the demands of our business and scale to meet demands of our entire industry.
We’re using fuel cells, solar panels, smart meters and daylight-harvesting 
technologies in our facilities, liquefied natural gas in our long-haul routes 
and electric and hybrid-electric vehicles in dense urban delivery areas. And 
most recently, we began work with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) to identify 
sustainable biofuel feedstocks that offer the greatest potential for our aircraft 
and for transportation generally. We’ve created print-on-demand solutions to 
lower carbon footprints for our FedEx Office customers. The success of reusable 
packaging and our carbon-neutral envelope shipping service are fueling our 
desire to create even more sustainable packaging innovations and services. 
These initiatives are adding up. We’ve begun to decouple our carbon emissions 
from our revenues so that as we grow as a company, we’re reducing our impact. 
Last fiscal year we introduced a more ambitious aircraft emissions intensity 
goal, and we are proud to announce we have done the same for our FedEx 
Express vehicle fuel efficiency goal. Collectively, our most effective sustainability 
initiatives helped us generate more than $320 million in estimated fuel and 
energy cost savings and materials recycling revenues in FY12, in addition to 
more than 1 million metric tons of avoided greenhouse gas emissions.
Because the scale of our business is truly global, we can help new alternative 
energy technologies spread. We’ve seen it happen. Our work with the 
Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) led to the industrywide development of hybrid 
technology for commercial vehicles. Our Chairman and CEO, Frederick W. Smith, 
continues to advocate for policies to ensure that new sustainable solutions 
are scalable. He has expressed our strong support for the electrification of 
transportation, adoption of industrywide fuel standards and energy alternatives. 
In fact, our call for new fuel standards in the U.S. for both consumer and 
commercial vehicles was adopted by the U.S. government through the Energy 
Independence & Security Act of 2007, which should save about 1 million barrels 
of oil per day. AT FEDEX, OUR GOAL IS SIMPLE: TO 
CONNECT THE WORLD IN RESPONSIBLE 
AND RESOURCEFUL WAYS. GOALS AND PROGRESS
GOAL: Reducing aircraft emissions intensity 30% by 2020
(restated from original goal of 20% reduction by 2020) 
•	In FY12, we reduced aircraft CO2 emissions intensity by 4%, 
bringing our cumulative reduction to 18% compared with FY05.
GOAL: Increasing FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency 30% by 
2020 (restated from original goal of 20% improvement by 2020)
•	In FY12, we achieved an additional 6% improvement in the 
FedEx Express vehicle fleet fuel efficiency, bringing our 
cumulative improvement since FY05 to 22%.
•	FedEx Express has increased our original vehicle fuel efficiency 
goal by 50% to a 30% improvement by 2020, still using FY05 as 
the baseline year.
GOAL: Obtaining 30% of our jet fuel from alternative fuels by 
the year 2030 
•	In FY12, we embarked on a strategic engagement with TNC to 
develop a roadmap for achieving this goal.
GOAL: Expanding on-site generation of and continuing 
procurement of renewable energy for our facilities  
•	We have generated over 20 GWh of solar electricity since we 
built our first solar facility in 2005. 
•	We now have nine solar-energy facilities, six in the U.S. and 
three in Europe.
•	The Solar Energy Industries Association recognized FedEx 
among the top 20 commercial solar power users in the U.S. in 
September 2012. 
•	FedEx Office was listed among the top 20 retail companies 
on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power 
Partnership list in 2012.
GOAL: Seeking LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental 
Design) certification on all new FedEx Express buildings in the U.S.
•	FedEx now has nine facilities in the U.S. that are LEED-certified, 
including the FedEx Express World HQ in Memphis and our 
Enterprise Data Center—West in Colorado Springs.Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 4across functional areas, operating companies and regions, develops and guides 
implementation of our sustainability strategy. 
Increasing Scope of Influence
Sustainability Impact Teams (SITs) have been established under the FESC 
management structure to ensure that our various operating companies 
can discuss, plan and align with our sustainability strategy. These SITs are 
comprised of representatives from internal functional areas (e.g., facilities, fleet 
management, supply chain, etc.) within each operating company and corporate 
functions such as Legal, Human Resources, Communications and Information 
Technology. The SITs’ primary roles and responsibilities include:
•	Identifying opportunities to advance the FedEx sustainability strategy 
across the enterprise in specific functional areas (e.g., vehicles, facilities, 
IT, supply chain, air operations, etc.),
•	Incorporating sustainability into operational/functional areas and into the 
annual business planning process,
•	Sharing knowledge and coordinating efforts in functional areas  
across the FedEx operating companies (i.e., “horizontal”  
communication channels),
•	Identifying and developing possible goals and measuring functional area 
environmental impacts and performance, and
•	Monitoring benefit to FedEx from sustainability initiatives.
In addition, each major transportation-based operating company has its 
own internal Environmental Management department that actively manages 
operating company-specific environmental sustainability programs and 
compliance with applicable environmental regulations and internal policies. 
Representatives from these departments share best practices and collaborate 
on sustainability initiatives with other operating companies and other internal 
departments (e.g., Vehicle Operations, Facilities, Corporate Communications, IT, 
etc.) through the appropriate SITs. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOALS
PRACTICAL ENVIRONMENTALISM,  which we define as strategic and 
transformational environmental stewardship that adds tangible value in the 
effort to be more responsible, is the underlying philosophy that guides our 
approach to environmental sustainability. It encompasses economic viability, 
strategic integration, team member involvement and doing what’s right  
for stakeholders and customers. The building blocks for Practical 
Environmentalism include:
•	PERFORMANCE : FedEx was the first company in the U.S. transportation-
logistics industry to set a goal to reduce carbon dioxide emissions 
intensity in global aviation. Through FY12, we have achieved a reduction 
of 18% from our 2005 baseline. We were the first in our industry, back 
in 2008, to set a goal to improve the fuel efficiency of our FedEx Express 
vehicles. To date, we’ve achieved a 22% improvement in fuel economy 
from our 2005 baseline. Furthermore, FedEx currently leads the U.S. 
transportation industry with nine solar facilities globally, and FedEx 
Express has made LEED Certification the standard for newly built  
U.S. facilities.
•	TRANSPARENCY : FedEx was the first company in the U.S. transportation-
logistics industry to establish a Citizenship Blog  to report global Scope 1  
(direct) greenhouse gas emissions in 2008 and to disclose climate risks 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This is important, as it gives 
information to our stakeholders on what we are doing, what it means and 
where we are heading. It’s similar to our customer service: We move our 
customers’ goods; we tell them where those goods are during shipment; 
and we tell them when they have been delivered to their final destination. 
For more information on global climate change risks, see pages 20 and 74 
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K 2012 .
•	INNOVATION:  FedEx has worked closely with the EDF to create innovative, 
clean delivery vans. This work resulted in the EDF declaring, “FedEx 
leadership has helped to make hybrid-truck technology a reality … FedEx 
led the launch that changed the marketplace.” More than 200 fleets 
have since added the very vehicles we helped develop. But we haven’t 
stopped there. We’ve gone on to push for electric powertrains, not only 
for commercial vehicles, but passenger ones as well. And we’re currently 
working with TNC to develop a roadmap for achieving our goal of getting 
30% of our aviation fuel from alternative sources by 2030.
•	LEADERSHIP:  FedEx was the first company in the U.S. transportation-
logistics industry to push for commercial-vehicle fuel-economy legislation, 
which was enacted in the Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007. 
And, we helped create a set of principles to inform and support this first-
ever national greenhouse gas/fuel efficiency program for medium- and 
heavy-duty vehicles. 
Many FedEx departments are involved in issues of environmental stewardship 
and sustainability. Their collective efforts are led by Mitch Jackson, vice 
president for Environmental Affairs and Sustainability. The FedEx Enterprise 
Sustainability Council (FESC), a senior officer council with representatives 
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 5EARTHSMART
FedEx works to achieve our ambitious goals through EarthSmart®, the FedEx 
roadmap for operating in an increasingly sustainable way and engaging our team 
members, customers, suppliers, vendors and the communities where we operate 
to help us reduce the environmental impact of our daily business operations. 
We introduced EarthSmart in 2009 as a way to underscore our commitment 
to minimize our impact on the environment. Our aim is to find or create 
new innovative ways not only to improve our own company’s environmental 
performance, but also to point the way for other companies in our own industry 
and beyond. For a complete list of EarthSmart-designated initiatives, please see 
the Appendix  at the end of this section.
EarthSmart includes three pillars:
1. EARTHSMART INNOVATIONS:  EarthSmart Innovations focuses on  
business and customer solutions, including products, services and assets. 
EarthSmart Innovations must demonstrate clear and tangible business, 
environmental and workplace benefits. Established criteria and scoring 
methods ensure that only those FedEx® products, services and assets that 
meet quantifiable environmental standards earn an EarthSmart designation. 
Any sustainability effort at FedEx will be part of EarthSmart, but it may not 
score high enough to receive a designation or use of the EarthSmart  
brand assets. 
We score applications in four areas:
 
Accepted applications fall within one of the following two tiers: Tier 1 
designations receive a custom EarthSmart logo, while Tier 2 programs 
receive the collective EarthSmart logo.
EarthSmart Innovations reviews are conducted annually to ensure that 
all EarthSmart Innovations-designated programs continue to qualify for 
the EarthSmart designation. During the annual review process, program 
managers receive a questionnaire asking them to report actual business, 
environmental and workplace benefits of the program as compared to  
the goals and projections included in the business case for that  
program’s application. 
EarthSmart Logo Applications
2. EARTHSMART @ WORK : EarthSmart @ Work focuses on three key 
areas: recycling/waste minimization, fuel emissions and energy usage 
in the FedEx workplace. The submitted workplace solutions must result 
in measurable environmental benefits for the workplace, team members, 
customers, community and the environment — all of which are weighted 
equally in scoring. Costs and return on investments must also be covered.
3. EARTHSMART  OUTREACH: EarthSmart Outreach focuses on sustainable 
transportation, cities and ecosystems. Initiatives must demonstrate 
measurable environmental impact in the community, involve community 
mobilization, engage team members and support the FedEx brand. All of 
the criteria are weighted equally in scoring.
•	BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT: A clear contribution to reducing 
carbon (preferred) like tree planting or to one or more other 
measurable environmental benefits like improving water/air quality 
or wildlife protection.
•	COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION: Mobilize people, organizations, 
government or communities either directly to change their own 
behaviors or to influence broad behavioral changes toward  
the environment.
•	TEAM MEMBER ENGAGEMENT: Leverage FedEx team member skills, 
expertise and volunteer time.
•	BRAND ENHANCEMENT: Make clear contributions to the FedEx 
brand and reputation regarding the environment.
For more information on EarthSmart Outreach initiatives, please see the 
Community & Disaster Relief  section of this report.  
 
At the corporate level, various communications channels are used to 
convey information to all FedEx team members about EarthSmart and other 
environmental sustainability initiatives at FedEx. An internal EarthSmart portal 
provides detailed information to team members on the EarthSmart designation 
process and EarthSmart-designated initiatives, as well as access to tools 
and resources to help team members plan, promote and implement their own 
EarthSmart-designated programs. In particular, our EarthSmart @ Work pillar 
places additional emphasis on initiatives that engage team members in support 
of our sustainability initiatives.Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 6In addition, each transportation-based operating company’s Environmental 
Management department uses its individual operating company communications 
channels to promote EarthSmart-designated programs that are specific to its 
operating company. Information on environmental sustainability topics are 
also promoted to both external and internal stakeholders through the FedEx 
Citizenship Blog , the EarthSmart solutions website , press releases, social 
media postings, video clips and our Global Citizenship Report.
ENTERPRISE ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION
The most significant direct energy source consumed by FedEx operating 
companies is the fuel used in our company-owned and -operated aircraft and 
vehicle fleets. To a much lesser extent, we also consume natural gas and heating 
oil in our facilities around the world.
In FY12, we consumed 198,614 terajoules of direct energy through the use of 
fuel consumed by our company-owned and -operated aircraft and vehicle fleets, 
and on-site combustion of natural gas and heating oil, used at our hubs, stations 
and office facilities around the world.
The vast majority of direct energy consumed was from nonrenewable fuels used 
in our aircraft and vehicle fleets. The renewable source portion of our direct 
energy use comes primarily from biodiesel and ethanol included in the gasoline 
purchased through the retail fuel infrastructure for use in our company-operated 
vehicles. In addition, we also purchase some biodiesel in bulk for use in FedEx 
Express vehicles and to resell to FedEx Ground independent contractors.
In FY12, all of the indirect energy use we recorded came from the consumption 
of 1,619,539,182 KWh of purchased electricity at our facilities around the  
world. This amounted to 5,895 terajoules, a slight decrease from the previous 
year due to ongoing energy efficiency initiatives at our facilities (see Greening 
Our Facilities ).GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
In prior years, we reported our greenhouse gas emissions only in terms of CO2 
emissions. Starting this year, we will also disclose our emissions in terms of 
“CO2 equivalent” (CO2e), which is the measure used to compare the emissions 
from various greenhouse gases, primarily CO2, methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide 
(N2O), based on their global warming potentials. We will also continue reporting 
our enterprise emissions in CO2 terms for the next few years to allow for year-
over-year comparisons. ROADMAP FOR ALTERNATIVE AVIATION FUELS
Aircraft emissions make up more than 80% of our entire transportation 
fleet emissions, so, as a company dedicated to innovation and game-
changing ideas, we have set a goal to use 30% alternative fuels in our 
aircraft by 2030. To help guide our progress toward this goal, we’ve 
commissioned TNC to create a biofuels roadmap for the long-distance 
transportation sector. This roadmap, which will be based on extensive 
research and collaboration with internal and external subject matter 
experts, will serve not only as our compass as we work to adopt 
biofuels into our fleet, but also, we hope, as a model for our entire 
industry to follow. 
FY12 Emissions Categories Metric Tons CO2e
Total FY12 CO2e Emissions 16,645,894
•	Scope 1 14,602,697
•	Scope 2 959,109
•	Scope 3 1,084,088
FY12 Energy Consumption (terajoules)
Aircraft Fuel 157,293
Vehicle and Emergency Generator Fuel (Diesel, Gasoline and Propane) 37,727
Facilities (Natural Gas, Heating Oil) 3,589Direct Energy Source
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 7The Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions associated with our direct and indirect 
energy usage in FY12 amounted to 14,878,779 metric tons of CO2 (15,561,806 
metric tons of CO2e) which increased slightly by 0.6% over FY11. In that same 
time frame, we increased our total annual revenues by 9%, thereby continuing 
our trend of decoupling economic growth from our direct and indirect carbon 
emissions. Furthermore, our enterprise Scope 2 absolute emissions actually 
decreased by more than 3.5% during FY12 due to ongoing energy efficiency 
initiatives at our facilities (see Greening Our Facilities ).
Enterprise CO2 Emissions (in metric tons)
There are some very minor gaps in the compilation of our Scope 1 emissions, 
mostly from fuels used at a small number of facilities with emergency diesel 
generators, propane consumption in forklifts at some non-hub locations, and 
on-site company-owned yard tractors at some FedEx Ground locations (see chart 
for information on Scope 3 emissions associated with FedEx Ground independent 
contractors). In addition, we have some data gaps in the compilation of our 
Scope 2 emissions, particularly in relation to smaller facilities and FedEx Office 
stores where electricity usage is bundled with the facility leases. Given the fact 
that we operate thousands of facilities around the world, with numerous local 
electricity utility suppliers, it is not feasible for us to determine the portion of our 
purchased electricity consumption that comes from renewable energy sources. 
As in prior years, our Scope 3 emissions include those from FedEx Express feeder 
aircraft contract operators and the fuel we sell to FedEx Ground independent 
contractors. However in this year’s report, we are also including estimated 
Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel undertaken in FY12.
There are also some data gaps with the compilation of our Scope 3 emissions, 
primarily related to those generated by our contracted transportation service 
providers who do not purchase fuel directly from FedEx. This includes:•	FedEx Ground independent contractors, who provide line-haul and pickup 
and delivery (P&D) services 
•	FedEx Express global service participants in international regions, feeder 
aircraft operators and third-party line-haul providers
•	FedEx Freight service agents in Canada and Mexico, as well as rail and 
trucking line-haul providers in the U.S.
•	FedEx Trade Networks air and ocean transportation providers
•	FedEx Custom Critical independent contractor drivers 
•	Shipping services that are handled by the U.S. Postal Service for  
FedEx SmartPost
GREENING OUR FLEET
As mentioned earlier, our company-owned or leased aircraft and vehicle fleets 
generate our largest environmental impacts in the form of greenhouse gas 
emissions. Accordingly, we focus a significant amount of time and resources 
articulating, developing and implementing innovative strategies and programs 
through our EarthSmart platform to help make our transportation fleets more 
fuel-efficient, thereby resulting in avoided emissions.
AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS
Our more than 650 aircraft generate the majority of our Scope 1 CO2 emissions. 
As we mentioned in last year’s report, we increased our global aircraft emissions 
intensity goal (measured as CO2 emissions per available ton mile) by 50% to 
a 30% intensity reduction by 2020, still using FY05 as the baseline year. In 
FY12, we continued to make progress toward that revised goal by reducing our 
aircraft CO2 emissions intensity by 4%, bringing our cumulative reduction to 18% 
compared with FY05.
Aircraft Emissions
Scope 3 Emissions Source FY12 Metric Tons CO2FY12 Metric Tons CO2e
Total Scope 3 Emissions 1,061,040 1,084,088
•	Contracted Transportation Services 1,008,618 1,031,144
•	Employee Business Travel 52,421 52,943
1 ATM, or available ton mile, is defined as one ton of capacity (cargo) transported one mile.Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 8
A significant portion of that reduction was achieved through the ongoing 
replacement of less fuel-efficient aircraft with newer fuel-efficient models. In 
FY12, we added 16 more Boeing 757 aircraft to our fleet, which are 36% more 
fuel-efficient on a payload adjusted basis than the 727-200s they replaced. We 
currently have 70 Boeing 757s providing service to 85 cities, and we expect to 
soon replace all our less-efficient 727s with the newer 757 models. We also 
introduced seven more Boeing 777 aircraft into our fleet, which use 18% less 
fuel and provide greater payload capacity than the MD-11 aircraft they replace. 
We currently have 23 Boeing 777s providing service to 25 cities around the 
world and are still on track to have 43 777s in service by 2023, as we reported 
last year. The net effect of these aircraft replacements is an estimated fuel 
savings of more than 37 million gallons in FY12, resulting in avoided CO2 
emissions of 353,792 metric tons. In addition, we are planning to introduce the 
new Boeing 767 aircraft to our fleet in FY14, which will further contribute to our 
ability to meet our newly revised aircraft emissions intensity reduction target. 
777F Trade Lanes
Even more impactful is the fuel saving that we continuously achieve through 
the strategic EarthSmart @ Work initiative called Fuel Sense. With more 
than 30 different programs under the Fuel Sense umbrella, FedEx Express is 
realizing savings of 49 million gallons of jet fuel, thereby avoiding more than 
466,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions each year. Fuel Sense encompasses 
a comprehensive team-driven approach across a wide variety of internal 
departments, with strong support from upper management, to identify and 
implement initiatives that ultimately optimize how we plan and actively manage 
our aircraft operations, ensuring the best possible tradeoff between fuel 
efficiency and on-time performance. Through Fuel Sense, every phase of aircraft 
operations, from pre-flight planning to in-flight routing to post-flight operation, is 
covered as we work to identify opportunities to increase fuel efficiency. We also 
have mechanisms for team members to share new ideas and provide feedback 
on their individual contributions to the program.
VEHICLE EMISSIONS
The FedEx vehicle fleet encompasses 90,000 company-owned and contracted 
vehicles around the world. Our company-owned vehicles at FedEx Express and 
FedEx Freight generate approximately 20% of our overall Scope 1 emissions, 
while the vehicles operated by FedEx Ground independent contractors account 
for most of our reported Scope 3 emissions. Therefore, we have implemented 
strategies that focus on developing and adopting innovative fuel- and emissions-
saving technologies to make our fleets more efficient.FUEL SENSE INNOVATIVE PROGRAM EXAMPLES
Our Fuel Sense program has yielded many innovative approaches: 
new technologies, forecasting and probabilistic models, innovative 
air traffic procedures and decision-support tools. For instance, 
FedEx Express is a leader in departure-queue management, which 
reduces time waiting on the runway with engines running by delaying 
departure from the gate until predicted taxi time is acceptable. 
Sophisticated software automation and communication between FedEx 
and air traffic control teams at our Memphis, Indianapolis and Paris 
hubs allow real-time usage of runways and air traffic resources, saving 
approximately 45,000 gallons of jet fuel each month. 
Another great example of how FedEx works with external entities 
through Fuel Sense is our collaboration with the Federal Aviation 
Administration’s weight turbulence separation recategorization 
(RECAT) initiative. This initiative reclassifies the minimum space 
requirements between aircraft based on aircraft weight, wing 
characteristics, approach and takeoff speeds and the ability of the 
aircraft to counteract adverse rolls. In November 2011, our Memphis 
hub was selected as the first airport to implement RECAT because of 
the aircraft mix and the outstanding relationship between Air Traffic 
Control and FedEx Express. This new RECAT scheme at Memphis 
increases the airport’s capacity by more than 15%, reduces delays and 
saves FedEx approximately 350,000 gallons of jet fuel a month. 
Our previously stated goal for 2020 was to improve the fuel efficiency of the 
FedEx Express delivery vehicle fleet by 20%, using 2005 as the baseline year. 
In FY12, we achieved a 22% fuel efficiency improvement in the FedEx Express 
vehicle fleet since FY05. We are happy to announce that FedEx Express has 
increased its vehicle fuel efficiency goal by 50% to a 30% improvement by 2020, 
still using FY05 as the baseline year. Many factors have led to our success in 
meeting and exceeding our original FedEx Express vehicle fuel-efficiency goals. 
The FedEx P&D vehicle fleet follows a three-tiered approach to improve vehicle 
fuel efficiency: Reduce, Replace and Revolutionize. This means we develop 
vehicle technologies for the future while making the best use of the conventional 
vehicles we operate today. 
Vehicle Fuel Efficiency
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through our EarthSmart Innovations-designated Zero Emission All-Electric 
and Low-Emission Hybrid-Electric programs, FedEx Express increased the size 
of its alternative-fuel fleet by 18% in FY12, with a total of 364 hybrid-electric 
vehicles (HEVs) and 118 electric vehicles (EVs) in the fleet by the end of FY12. 
As of December 31, 2012, these vehicles have saved 480,000 gallons of fuel 
and logged 14.8 million miles since being introduced to our fleet in 2005, 
with 112,000 gallons of fuel saved and more than 1,000 metric tons of CO2 
emissions avoided in FY12 alone. In high-density urban markets such as New 
York, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Hong Kong, where local traffic is heavily 
congested, these alternative-fuel vehicles have demonstrated strong efficiency 
results. FedEx Express continues testing newer EV models as well as retrofitting 
standard delivery vehicles with all-electric drivetrains from various suppliers,  
including Smith Electric Vehicles and Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. In 
addition, we are working with General Electric, Con Edison and Columbia 
University on a Smart Grid pilot project in lower Manhattan, focused on creating 
an advanced infrastructure of charging facilities for EVs. FedEx Express also 
operates 76 trucks fueled by compressed natural gas and liquefied petroleum 
gas in our Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America markets. ELECTRIC VEHICLES IN EMEA
FedEx Express tested a prototype Nissan e-NV200 zero-emission 
all-electric delivery vehicle in the London area to assess its durability 
for the rigors of urban deliveries. The e-NV200 EV prototype uses 
the same EV powertrain and battery originally developed for the 
Nissan LEAF — the world’s first 100% electric mass-market family 
car and winner of the 2011 European Car of the Year, 2011 World Car 
of the Year and Car of the Year Japan 2011-2012 awards. With zero 
emissions, no tailpipe and energy-recycling regenerative braking, the 
Nissan e-NV200 EV prototype is particularly well-suited for congested 
city streets. To celebrate the end of the trial in February 2012, a FedEx 
Express courier delivered donations from Nissan employees to the 
British Red Cross Headquarters in the e-NV200 prototype van. FedEx 
Express matched the Nissan employees’ generosity with a donation 
of its own, and both donations were allotted to the British Red Cross 
Disaster Fund supporting emergency-response efforts around  
the world. 
In December 2011, FedEx Express introduced seven electrically 
assisted tricycles for package deliveries and collections in the third, 
fourth and tenth districts of Paris in our Europe, Middle East and 
Africa (EMEA) region. Following this successful trial, which earned 
an EarthSmart Innovations designation, we increased the coverage 
area from three to five districts in FY12 with the introduction of four 
additional tricycles. As a result, 60% of Paris districts are now served 
with emissions-free transportation options, including five all-electric 
state-of-the-art Modec delivery vans, which have been servicing Paris 
since 2010. TESTING HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS IN BAGGAGE TOW TRACTORS
FedEx Express continues to evaluate new alternative-fuel vehicle 
technologies at our airport hubs. In November 2012, FedEx Express 
announced a collaboration with Plug Power Inc. to retrofit 15 Charlatte 
baggage tow tractors at our Memphis and Oakland hub airports 
with hydrogen-powered fuel cells, as part of a three-year project 
funded with a $2.5 million grant awarded to Plug Power from the U.S. 
Department of Energy. FedEx Express currently uses Charlatte electric 
baggage tow tractors at those locations, so this pilot project could 
present an alternative-fuel option to the battery packs that power 
those vehicles today.
FedEx Express will deploy hydrogen fuel-cell technology at these 
two hub locations to study the productivity, efficiency and the 
environmental benefits of using hydrogen fuel cells. In addition, 
Nuvera, a company that builds hydrogen generation systems and fuel 
cells, will deploy on-site “PowerTap” systems that convert natural 
gas and water into hydrogen to recharge the hydrogen fuel cells, 
taking advantage of the natural gas pipelines that already exist 
at those hub locations. The recent availability of cheaper natural 
gas has the potential to make this technology both economically 
and environmentally feasible compared to the current diesel-based 
baggage tow tractors deployed at most FedEx Express hub locations. Electric and Hybrid-Electric Fleet
 
FedEx Office also supports the expansion of HEVs and EVs in U.S. markets. We 
select locations based on our ability to make practical investments and where 
our routes can sustainably deploy this technology. FedEx Office has HEVs in 
California, Texas, Oregon and Washington state.
Recently, FedEx Office installed charging stations in Washington, D.C., allowing 
us to deploy EVs in that market. We hope that by building our own charging-
station infrastructure, we can inspire others to follow.Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 10FedEx Express has seen the biggest impact on overall fuel efficiency from 
our strategy of making our fleet of conventional internal-combustion-engine 
local P&D vehicles more efficient through our EarthSmart @ Work-designated 
“Vehicle Refresh Plan.” Through this program, which has saved over 86 million 
gallons of fuel since its inception, including 17 million gallons (and more than 
173,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions avoided) in FY12 alone, FedEx engineers 
use detailed analysis techniques to understand the power, torque and payload 
capacity requirements of our various route profiles. Matching the right vehicle to 
each route yields significant economic and environmental returns. In particular, 
the mass deployment of clean diesel Sprinter vans, which are about 70% to 
100% more fuel efficient than the vehicles they replace, has played a key role 
in improving overall vehicle fleet fuel efficiency, especially in suburban and 
extended driving range markets. FedEx Express has more than 10,000 such 
vehicles in service, which equates to more than 35% of our U.S. P&D fleet. 
Moreover, the leadership position that FedEx Express has taken in deploying 
these vehicles has encouraged other major operators of medium-duty vehicles to 
replace their older delivery vehicles with more fuel-efficient Sprinter-type vans. 
Clean Diesel Vans
Team members at FedEx Freight are helping to reduce emissions and conserve 
fuel with the GREEN (Guiding Reductions in Emissions within our Environment 
and Nature) Fleet program, an EarthSmart @ Work initiative. GREEN Fleet 
educates drivers on fuel-efficient driving habits like progressive shifting, use of 
cruise control and idling reduction. And it encompasses vehicle improvements 
like trailer skirts that minimize drag and U.S. EPA SmartWay-approved tires 
with low rolling resistance, which helps to reduce emissions and save fuel. In 
October 2012, FedEx Freight began beta testing two new tractors powered by 
cleaner-burning engines that use only liquefied natural gas (LNG). The pre-
production engine used in the new tractors is slated for limited release in 2013 
and is currently the only all-natural-gas engine that begins to meet the size 
and power needs of Class 8 trucks. The tractors are based at the FedEx Freight 
service center in Dallas as part of regular line-haul operations and are logging 
nearly 1,000 miles per day. Such extensive use is helping FedEx Freight quickly 
and thoroughly test the new engine’s ability to meet the needs of day-to-day 
operations. Additionally, FedEx Freight has conducted successful testing of a 
synthetic diesel fuel derived from biomass in our trucks at the Birmingham,  
Ala., service center. As a result, we continue to look forward to using such 
alternative fuels in the foreseeable future. 
One of the most promising fuel-efficiency innovations being evaluated by FedEx 
Ground is the use of hydraulic hybrid vehicle technologies in P&D vans used 
on local delivery routes across the U.S. and Canada. Hydraulic-hybrid vehicle 
systems capture the energy used to slow and stop the vehicle by using the rear 
wheels to drive a large hydraulic pump, which in turn increases the pressure in  ECO-DRIVE ACCELERATES INTO EMEA
In 2010, FedEx Express launched our Eco-Drive program in Japan, 
working with experts from Isuzu Motors to teach FedEx drivers how 
to operate vehicles more efficiently, increasing their awareness of 
energy conservation, environmental protection and general road safety 
by applying the five key principles of the Eco-Drive program (see 
graphic) to their daily driving practices. The 
initial results were so impressive that the 
program was expanded into 10 other Asia 
Pacific (APAC) markets in 2011, where fuel 
savings of more than 5% were realized at 
participating stations. Eakaraj Ubonsamut, a 
FedEx courier in Thailand, says, “Eco-Drive 
is about helping to protect and save the 
environment. I adjust my speed according to 
the conditions and use the accelerator pedal 
more gently when starting the vehicle. I not 
only drive safer, but I am also reducing  
fuel consumption.”
On World Environment Day — June 7, 
2012 — the program was expanded to 
24 countries in our EMEA region. To date, 
more than 300 FedEx couriers have received 
Eco-Drive training across that region, and 
preliminary results are positive, similar to 
those observed in APAC. The one exception so far is our station in Dubai, 
United Arab Emirates, which has reported an even more impressive fuel 
savings rate of 18% since the program was launched in that market. We 
plan to provide more details on the ongoing success of this program in 
next year’s report. 
 
the vehicle’s hydraulic fluid system. When the driver steps on the accelerator, 
the high-pressure hydraulic fluid stored in the system is released to power a 
hydraulic motor that drives the vehicle’s rear wheels. The entire system is 
computer controlled so the engine is stopped when not needed and started 
automatically when the computer senses power demands. This eliminates 
unnecessary engine operation, which in turn saves fuel and reduces engine 
wear and tear. FedEx Ground has collaborated with Freightliner Custom Chassis 
Corp., Parker Hannifin Corp. and Morgan Olson to develop and test a fleet 
of six hydraulic hybrid vehicles in a 24-month trial. So far, the vehicles have 
accumulated a total of 49,276 miles, with average fuel economy showing a 
50% improvement over conventional P&D vans. FedEx Ground independent 
contractors in the locations where hydraulic hybrid vans are being tested have 
expressed an interest in buying them if the return-on-investment studies find the 
vans are economically viable. 
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 11Another promising innovation being tested by FedEx Ground involves developing 
and installing aerodynamic-shaped plastic, fiberglass and metal fairings to 
reduce wind resistance and air turbulence around and between 28- and 33-foot 
drop-frame trailers. These trailers are used for most of the FedEx Ground 
long-haul, hub-to-hub movement of packages. FedEx Ground currently has four 
different manufacturers working independently to create prototype fairings, with 
specifications requiring at least a 5% fuel economy improvement. 
Four of the FedEx operating companies (FedEx Custom Critical, FedEx Express, 
FedEx Freight and FedEx Ground) are active members of the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay 
Transport Partnership program, which creates a market mechanism that gives 
carriers and shippers incentive to improve operational efficiency, increase 
environmental performance and increase supply-chain sustainability. In 2012, 
FedEx Ground was recognized by the EPA with the SmartWay Carrier Award in 
the large package carrier category. Through the SmartWay Excellence Awards 
program, EPA recognizes leading shippers, logistics companies and freight 
carriers that are optimizing the environmental performance and efficiency of 
their freight operations and serving as role models for other businesses to follow. 
GREENING OUR FACILITIES
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Every major FedEx operating company manages its own programs and strategies 
to minimize the environmental impacts of its facilities.
In 2010, FedEx Express established a goal to seek LEED® certification on all 
new FedEx Express buildings in the U.S. This program was later formalized 
as an EarthSmart Innovation, and today nine FedEx facilities have achieved 
LEED certification, including the FedEx Express World HQ in Memphis and our 
Enterprise Data Center—West in Colorado Springs. 
LEED-Certified Facilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The FedEx Freight GREEN Building program encourages team members 
to participate in companywide strategies and improvements that create 
efficiencies that reduce emissions by supporting EarthSmart-designated Energy 
Watch, Waste Watch and Supply Watch initiatives. Related projects, such 
as implementing energy-efficient lighting upgrades and paper shredding, etc., 
can be created by teams of employees within Facility Services or across other 
functional areas. LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION
The FedEx Freight EarthSmart @ Work Local Environmental Action 
Facilitators (LEAF) program designates employees at every location to 
champion their site’s sustainability efforts, with a goal of achieving 
GREEN Site certification for those sites. A LEAF-specific SharePoint 
site provides educational resources and lets facilities collaborate and 
share ideas. Larry Arnold, a fleet maintenance manager at the fleet 
maintenance shop in northwestern Atlanta, typifies the dedication 
of the 375 designated LEAFs toward the success of this program. 
Arnold led his location to GREEN Site certification through the 
implementation of actions that promote sustainable practices, such 
as recycling copy paper, aluminum cans and cardboard packaging. In 
addition, Arnold’s team worked with FedEx Freight Facility Services to 
have energy-efficient lighting fixtures and motion sensors installed so 
overhead doors open and close automatically to reduce energy loss. 
The net effect of these activities reduced the site’s waste disposal and 
heating/cooling costs, making it a great success. The FedEx Freight EarthSmart-designated GREEN Site program focuses on 
specific actions — such as recycling, turning off lights, using double-sided 
printing and following environmental compliance procedures — that team 
members can take to “green” or reduce their facilities’ emissions and 
environmental impacts. The GREEN Site program has two levels of actions that 
support all three of the associated EarthSmart-designated Energy Watch, Waste 
Watch and Supply Watch initiatives, with varying degrees of team member 
engagement and goal attainment. The metrics for this program are unique to 
each site, but they include such measures as landfill-waste reduction, electricity 
saved and environmentally preferable products purchased. A total of 120 sites 
have been certified since the program began in September 2011.
We’ve seen tremendous electricity, emissions and cost savings across our 
enterprise because of an ongoing initiative to retrofit internal lighting fixtures 
inside FedEx facilities with energy-efficient lighting, such as T5HO fluorescent 
high-bay lights for interior sorting areas and employee parking lots, LED lighting 
for loading docks and T8 fluorescent lighting for office buildings. In addition, 
occupancy sensors were installed where appropriate for additional energy savings. 
This initiative has saved 166,565,203 KWh of electricity (equivalent to avoiding 
117,520 metric tons of CO2e, based on the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies 
Calculator) in 447 FedEx facilities since 2006. The FY12 annualized savings alone 
amounted to 59,910,238 KWh of electricity (equivalent to avoiding 42,270 metric 
tons of CO2e) in the 164 FedEx facilities that were upgraded through the program. 
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 12RENEWABLE ENERGY
Solar-energy systems at FedEx locations have generated more than 20 GWh 
of electricity since we built our first EarthSmart Innovations solar facility in 
2005. We now have nine solar-energy facilities (six in the U.S. and three in 
Europe). Those facilities alone have reduced CO2 emissions by an estimated 
6,989 metric tons — roughly equivalent to 783,520 gallons of gasoline or 
179,205 tree seedlings growing for 10 years, based on the EPA’s Greenhouse 
Gas Equivalencies Calculator. In September 2012, a report from the Solar Energy 
Industries Association listed FedEx among the top 20 commercial users of solar 
electricity in the U.S. 
Solar Electricity
In addition, FedEx Office continued to help support renewable power generation 
by purchasing 25,000 megawatt-hours of renewable energy credits (RECs) in 
2012. Each REC represents 1,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity produced by a 
renewable energy source, and their purchase helps sustain and expand the 
renewable energy grid. Consequently, FedEx Office was recognized among the 
top 20 retail companies on the U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership list in 2012. 
Renewable Energy Credits  WASTE AND RECYCLING
WASTE GENERATION
In FY12, the total waste generated that we were able to track at FedEx facilities 
amounted to 74,624 U.S. tons. The majority of that waste is considered 
nonhazardous and municipal solid waste, while the remaining waste streams 
include: regulated nonhazardous waste, such as oil filters, in certain U.S. states; 
hazardous waste, which is dangerous or potentially harmful to human health 
or the environment; “universal waste,” which includes batteries, mercury-
containing equipment and fluorescent light bulbs; and e-waste, such as obsolete 
handheld scanners, computers and peripheral devices. 
We continue working toward a goal of reporting the total solid waste generated 
at all facilities across our global enterprise in the near future. However, we still 
have some gaps in the collection of our waste data. At the present time, only 
regulated hazardous and nonhazardous waste is being tracked at FedEx Ground 
facilities, and regular solid municipal waste is not currently being reported at 
that operating company. In addition, there are some smaller facilities at other 
operating companies, including many FedEx Office stores, which have waste 
disposal services bundled with facility leases. As a result, we have no way to 
track waste disposal at those facilities at this time. And finally, we are working 
on improving our visibility into waste generation at FedEx Express facilities 
outside the U.S.
Waste Streams
Waste Type (in U.S. Tons) Total Waste Sent to Recyclers % Sent to Recyclers 
Total Waste 74,624 43,251 58%
•	Solid Waste 67,501 37,843 56%
•	Regulated  
Nonhazardous Waste5,048 3,479 69%
•	Hazardous Waste 224 78 35%
•	“Universal Waste” 585 585 100%
•	E-Waste 1,266 1,266 100%
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 13RECYCLING
In FY12, we recycled 38.6 million more lbs. of the waste generated at our 
facilities than we did in FY11. Based on the waste disposal data we currently 
track, our recycling rate rose 22 percentage points, to 58% in FY12. We attribute 
this growth to increased participation in recycling programs across our operating 
companies, including the EarthSmart @ Work-designated Ground Green at FedEx 
Ground and Waste Watch at FedEx Freight, and the EPA Waste Wise-recognized 
FedEx Express Recycle Program, which features its very own mascot, “R.E. 
Cycle,” who provides useful tips to team members on waste minimization and 
recycling. EarthSmart @ Work continues to challenge our team members to find 
new ways to recycle and/or reuse a significant percentage of waste, including 
nonhazardous, hazardous, “universal” and e-waste. 
 
Recycling Percentages
Recycling Totals (in millions of lbs.)DOING THE RIGHT THING
Matt Hawks, an operations manager at the FedEx Express Memphis 
World Hub, came up with a big idea: Let’s start recycling plastic bottles 
and aluminum cans in the Hub Cafe, which sells about 3,000 beverage 
containers to FedEx team members each day. Having a degree with 
a focus on sustainable enterprise and having lived in New York City, 
where residents recycle or pay a fine, Hawks was already in the habit 
of sorting waste. After noticing that there were no recycling bins at 
the Hub Cafe, he and Shelly Gunn, a station manager at the hub, put 
their heads together, and by the end of 2011, recycling was in full 
swing at the Cafe. “If given a choice, team members are willing to do 
the right thing,” Hawks says. “I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished, 
but there’s potential to do so much more locally and throughout  
the company.” 
Similar programs are planned for other hubs. What’s next? Hawks 
dreams of recruiting volunteers to plant greenery on the hub’s 
expansive rooftop to lower energy costs, reduce storm-water runoff 
and extend the roof’s life. 
Ground Green is an EarthSmart @ Work program, in conjunction with the EPA 
Waste Wise program, designed to integrate waste reduction and recycling 
techniques into the FedEx Ground everyday operating procedures by educating, 
encouraging involvement and increasing team member awareness. Among the 
materials recycled through Ground Green are office paper, cardboard,  
plastic (soda bottles, rain shields and plastic bags), wooden and plastic pallets 
and even scrap metal. In addition, cardboard shredding equipment has been 
deployed in some locations to provide an alternative to conventional packing 
materials. Since the program’s inception in 2006, 93 million lbs. of materials 
have been diverted from landfills. In FY12 alone, Ground Green was responsible 
for recycling more than 27 million lbs. of materials at FedEx Ground facilities in 
the U.S. and Canada.Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 14RECYCLING ELECTRONIC WASTE AT FEDEX
U.S. domestic e-waste generated by our operating companies is 
processed through the FedEx IT Asset Disposition (ITAD) program, 
which recycled 2.5 million lbs. of electronic assets in FY12, a 
tremendous growth rate of 67% over the previous fiscal year. ITAD 
was established at the FedEx TechConnect Repair Service Center 
(RSC), a 138,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art electronics repair facility 
in Collierville, Tenn., to provide a standardized process throughout 
FedEx to securely and responsibly dispose of obsolete or irreparably 
damaged IT equipment.
 
Among the most common types of IT assets processed through ITAD 
are PCs, servers, hard disk drives, computer monitors (CRT and flat 
screen), package scanners, printers and fax machines (see infographic). 
FedEx Express®, FedEx Ground® and FedEx Freight® services are used 
to transport IT assets from our U.S. operations to the RSC for recycling. 
The RSC also operates its own fleet of plug-in electric vans for local 
pickups in the Memphis area. The RSC works with a national R2/RIOS-
certified e-waste recycling vendor to ensure that all e-waste materials 
are recycled in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. In 
addition, the RSC itself employs reusable materials, including specially 
designed shipping boxes and recyclable plastic holding containers, as 
part of its standard operations.The FedEx Ground Environmental Services Department provides tools and 
information to team members on Ground Green through its intranet site, 
newsletters and routine conference calls. Every year, to commemorate Earth 
Day, FedEx Ground hosts a weeklong event called “Ground Green Week,” 
which includes activities such as volunteer efforts, free e-waste recycling for 
employees and educational workshops.
Electronic Waste RecyclingFEDEX PAPER RECYCLING PROGRAM
At FedEx Office, recycling programs have helped divert millions 
of pounds of waste from landfills. For example, our EarthSmart 
Innovations-designated in-store recycling program at FedEx Office 
allowed us to recycle more than 6.5 million lbs. of paper in FY12, 
saving more than 9,700 cubic yards of landfill space and more than 
55,000 trees. In FY13, we decided to fully leverage the program by 
offering it as a value-added service to our customers, who can now 
bring sensitive paper documents, such as old tax forms and financial 
records, to FedEx Office stores and take advantage of the ease 
and convenience of our secure shredding services. Those customer 
documents are placed in locked containers, which are picked up and 
transported to Iron Mountain facilities for secure shredding  
and recycling. 
FedEx Paper Recycling
Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 15PAPER AND PACKAGING MATERIALS
The main materials we use in our operations are the FedEx-branded cardboard 
packaging that we provide to customers and the paper stock we consume for 
retail print and copy services at FedEx Office. 
PAPER CONSUMPTION
In FY12, FedEx Office stores consumed 25,838 U.S. tons of paper stock, in 
addition to 793 U.S. tons of materials used in the provision of print-pack-and-
ship services to customers. We do not include retail products such as stationery, 
file folders and mailing supplies sold directly to customers through our FedEx 
Office stores in this metric at this time — the weight of those materials is 
relatively low compared to the other materials used in our operations.
As with all large multinational companies, FedEx consumes paper products 
for internal use such as office document printing, business cards, etc. In FY12, 
FedEx operating companies consumed 3,903 U.S. tons of paper for internal 
operations. All FedEx operating companies are working to increase the amount 
of responsibly sourced paper used for internal operations. In FY12, we increased 
the percentage of paper produced from recycled content or FSC-certified sources 
that we consumed for internal operations to 52% of our total internal paper 
consumption. In FY11, that percentage was 36%. This increase was due both 
to improved reporting of responsibly sourced paper usage by our key suppliers 
as well as enhanced product offerings to meet the demand for recycled paper 
content across the enterprise.FSC-CERTIFIED PAPER AT FEDEX OFFICE
We seek to buy paper for our FedEx Office stores from suppliers that 
have been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), which 
helps ensure responsible forest management. In FY12, we increased 
the percentage of FSC-certified paper used in those stores to 83%. 
In addition, the boxes used to deliver copy jobs to customers at 
FedEx Office stores are made from a chip paperboard that is 100% 
post-consumer reclaimed fiber, 100% recyclable and printed with 
water- and soy-based inks. This product is certified by the FSC, 
as are the facilities that manufacture the boxes. In addition, we 
provide consumers sustainable solutions to choose from through our 
diverse portfolio of paper-product offerings at our 1,800-plus FedEx 
Office stores in the U.S., Canada and other international locations. 
Approximately 79% of our paper-product offerings contain recycled or 
FSC-certified materials. 
FSC-Certified Paper
FEDEX GROUND CARDBOARD/PLASTIC BALERS
Joe Stearns, a senior environmental compliance specialist at FedEx 
Ground, helped start Ground Green by making lease-to-own deals for 
50 balers to bundle cardboard and plastic, making it easier for external 
recycling vendors to collect those materials for recycling. These lease-
to-own arrangements helped the program pay for itself in six months. 
This recycling procedure is now standard practice at FedEx Ground, 
where there are balers at the 60 largest hubs and stations with 
materials collected at every station throughout the U.S. and Canada. Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 16Our customers also value sound environmental practices. To help them save 
paper, time and money, we offer FedEx® Electronic Trade Documents, one of our 
EarthSmart Innovations that allows customers to submit customs documentation 
electronically so they no longer need to print multiple copies. Customers in  
90 countries can now submit customs documents electronically using FedEx 
Electronic Trade Documents, saving tons of paper each year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGING MATERIALS
The total weight of FedEx branded packaging materials purchased from our 
suppliers for our customers’ direct use was 38,161 U.S. tons in FY12. This 
represents a 7% increase over FY11. The FedEx branded corrugated customer 
packaging (envelopes and boxes) we provided in FY12 consisted of 60% recycled 
content by weight. In fact, all of the FedEx branded cardboard packaging that we 
provide to our customers includes some recycled content.
At the FedEx Packaging Lab, our engineers use the latest materials and tools to 
solve shipping challenges, including environmental ones, and today, most FedEx 
packaging is recyclable and contains recycled materials.
•	The iconic FedEx Express® overnight envelope is composed of 100% 
recycled paperboard and is recyclable. 
•	FedEx® 10-kilogram and 25-kilogram boxes contain a minimum of 70% 
recycled content and are recyclable. 
•	FedEx boxes sold at our retail locations contain a minimum of 20% 
recycled content and are recyclable. 
•	Most FedEx® Paks contain 60% recycled content and are recyclable at 
select locations.In addition, FedEx Freight consumed 2,788 U.S. tons of dunnage cardboard 
packaging used to secure customer shipments during transit in FY12; these 
dunnage materials consisted of 86% recycled content. FedEx Ground used 890 
U.S. tons of cardboard packaging for “repack” purposes in FY12 to ensure the 
integrity of centrally sourced customer packages; the cardboard boxes used to 
repack FedEx Ground customers’ packages consisted of 25% recycled content. In 
addition, FedEx Ground uses plastic bags to protect customers’ packages while 
in transit. These bags are made from 30% recycled plastic and are  
utilized in a closed-loop system, which returns the bags to the manufacturer for 
recycling into new bags. Certain nonrenewable packaging materials, including 
plastic film, packing peanuts and bubble wrap, are also used in our long-distance 
shipping processes. At this time, we do not report consumption of  
those materials. 
There are some minor data gaps in the compilation of these indicators, most 
notably additional “repack” materials purchased locally by our FedEx Ground 
operations. In addition, we do not include the weight of other consumable 
materials we use in our operations, such as tires, sorting belts and wooden 
pallets. At this time, we do not report the recycled content in other packaging 
materials purchased and used by consumer customers at our retail FedEx  
Office stores.
BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION
Since most FedEx operations are located in urban areas, we have few facilities 
near sensitive natural habitat areas. In cases where we do have such 
facilities — including protected wetlands near our FedEx Ground hub in 
Portland, Ore., beside our FedEx Freight operations in Chicago Heights, Ill., and 
near our FedEx Express hub location in Anchorage, Alaska — we proactively 
manage the impacts of our business operations to ensure those areas are 
protected. We have formal policies and programs in place to manage the 
environmental impacts of our operational activities in local communities. 
The FedEx Office Forest-Based Product Procurement policy includes vendor 
requirements for responsible forest-management practices as well as recycled-
content standards. This policy has helped FedEx Office increase the number 
of products it offers that have received FSC certification, meaning that timber 
contained in these products comes from well-managed forests, independently 
certified in accordance with FSC rules. FedEx Office conducts annual audits 
of selected suppliers to ensure they are meeting the requirements set forth in 
policies and contracts. FedEx Office requires suppliers furnishing forest-based 
products to have audited procurement systems that include third-party raw 
materials suppliers, guarantee that none of their supply sources or operations 
result in the logging of old growth or endangered forests, and use best 
management practices for avoidance and minimization or mitigation when 
dealing with endangered or threatened species. Suppliers agree to submit to 
annual audits by FedEx Office and provide the documentation necessary to show 
that they are in compliance with the policy. 
Electronic Trade DocumentsEnvironment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 17In addition to our efforts to minimize the environmental impacts of our 
operations, FedEx actively supports initiatives that help make communities 
cleaner, healthier and more efficient by encouraging sustainable transportation, 
parks and green urban spaces and resilient ecosystems through EarthSmart 
Outreach, our philanthropic and volunteer program centered on effective 
environmental stewardship in the communities we serve. More information can 
be found in the Community & Disaster Relief  section of this report.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 
AND POLICIES
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS
Our companywide environmental policy is as follows: FedEx recognizes that the 
long-term health of our business is directly connected to the health of the planet 
and local communities. We remain focused on sourcing environmental solutions 
that will lessen our footprint, while serving as an example to our peers.  The full 
environmental policy can be viewed at  
http://about.van.fedex.com/environmental-policy .
In addition, each FedEx operating company has its own environmental policies 
and programs that are tailored to its business operations. These policies and 
programs focus on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and help 
manage the environmental impacts of operational activities, such as aircraft, 
vehicle and fuel tank maintenance, hazardous waste disposal, storm water 
pollution and spill prevention. As stated above, FedEx Office has a Forest-Based 
Product Procurement policy that establishes environmental standards for 
purchasing products manufactured from timber and other forest-based natural 
resources, ensuring those products originate from well-managed,  
nonendangered forests in addition to promoting the use of recycled material  
and innovative forest-based alternatives.
The Environmental Management department at each transportation-based 
operating company manages compliance with that company’s specific 
environmental policies and procedures.
•	FedEx Express maintains an Environmental Management Information 
System (EMIS) to monitor air emissions and water quality data, to record 
underground storage tank parameters, to compile emergency spill data, 
to track waste disposal and recycling activity, to coordinate permits  
and associated regulatory documentation and to track many other 
environmental performance measurements. The EMIS is a critical part of 
the FedEx Express Environmental Management System (EMS), based on 
the ISO 14001 standard, which allows the FedEx Express  
Environmental Management department and other stakeholders (e.g., 
Operations, Maintenance, Location Environmental Coordinators, etc.) 
to use existing information to streamline the critical environmental risk 
management and analysis processes. The EMS also includes the FedEx 
policy commitment to continually improve environmental performance, 
internal auditing, computer-based and classroom training, procedure 
manuals, sustainability goals and a website to engage team members in environmental stewardship. In addition, 51 FedEx Express facilities 
in the EMEA region, including the FedEx international hub in Paris, have 
achieved ISO 14001 certification of their local EMS since 2008. 
•	The FedEx Ground Senior Manager Environmental Compliance Guide 
prescribes specific tasks for station managers at FedEx Ground facilities 
to ensure compliance with environmental regulations and company 
policies, including maintaining records for each applicable environmental 
compliance permit or program (e.g., storm water management, vehicle 
and fuel system tank maintenance, hazardous waste, etc.). Relevant 
information is then updated on Environmental Reports for each station 
that can be accessed on the FedEx Ground intranet. Environmental 
compliance at FedEx Ground facilities is monitored via routine field audits 
of facilities and through semiannual, self-audit environmental and waste 
management tests completed by each facility.
•	The FedEx Freight Environmental Services department tracks compliance 
information in several areas: on-site bulk fuel services and petroleum 
storage tank integrity testing, industrial waste water pretreatment 
(designed to keep oil, grease and solids from entering sanitary sewer 
lines), spill prevention control and countermeasures and storm 
water pollution prevention. In addition, the FedEx Freight GREEN 
Site certification program requires that facilities follow applicable 
environmental compliance policies and guidelines in order to earn and 
maintain certification.
Each transportation-based operating company’s Environmental Management 
department communicates with team members in its respective operating 
company using a variety of communications channels, including intranet portals, 
email broadcasts and departmental and work group newsletters for team 
members who don’t have regular access to computers. In particular, information 
about applicable environmental regulations and internal policies and guidelines 
(e.g., waste/recycling, internal temperature control settings, vehicle idling, 
etc.) are communicated to specific team members through online policy and 
procedure manuals, downloadable forms and tip sheets, computer-based training 
modules and even on CDs for drivers at FedEx Freight. 
ISO 14001 CertificationEnvironment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 18SIGNIFICANT SPILLS AND PENALTIES
In FY12, we recorded 82 significant spills of hazardous materials such as 
oil, fuel and chemicals across our FedEx Express, FedEx Ground and FedEx 
Freight U.S. operations. We define “significant” spills as those reported to the 
appropriate environmental regulatory agency, such as the U.S. government’s 
National Response Center. We have robust processes and systems in place 
for spill prevention and containment, including comprehensive response plans 
provided primarily through contracted specialty service providers, to ensure that 
spills do not cause significant harm to the well-being of our team members, the 
community or to the local environment. 
In FY12, 99 environmental inspections by external agencies led to four violations 
that resulted in monetary fines at our FedEx Express and FedEx Ground U.S. 
operations. We also received one monetary environmental sanction at our FedEx 
Freight U.S. operations. Fines related to environmental violations amounted to 
$26,074 across all FedEx operating companies in that year.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  
•	2013, 100 Best Corporate Citizens List,  Corporate Responsibility Magazine
•	2013, Top 20 Retail Companies (FedEx Office),  U.S. EPA Green  
Power Partnership
•	2012, Climate Innovation Leaders Index,  #37, Maplecroft
•	2012, Social Media Sustainability Index, Top 10,  SMI-Wizness
•	2012, U.S. EPA SmartWay Carrier Award (FedEx Ground),  Package  
Carrier Fleet
•	2012, Silver Eco-Airline of the Year Award (FedEx Express),  Penton Media’s 
Air Transport World
•	2012, Top 100 Thought Leaders in Trustworthy Business Behavior,  (Mitch 
Jackson, vice president for Environmental Affairs & Sustainability), Trust 
Across AmericaEnvironment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 19INITIATIVE
Zero Emission All-Electric and Low-Emission Hybrid-Electric programs  
(FedEx Express)
Solar Electricity Facilities
Paperless Processing (Electronic Trade Documents)
LEED-Certified Facilities (FedEx Express)
FedEx Carbon-Neutral Envelope Shipping (FedEx Express)
FedEx Paper Recycling (FedEx Office)
Zero Emission Electric Tricycles (FedEx Express)
FedEx Reusable Sturdy Pak (FedEx Express)DESCRIPTION
Deployment of zero-emission electric vehicles (EVs) and low-emission  
hybrid-electric vehicles (HEVs) in high-density urban markets such as New York, 
San Francisco, Los Angeles, London, Paris and Hong Kong. We had 364 HEVs  
and 118 EVs in the fleet as of the end of FY12.
Solar energy systems at FedEx locations have generated more than 20 GWh  
of electricity since we built our first solar facility in 2005. We now have nine  
solar-energy facilities (six in the U.S. and three in Europe). In September 2012,  
a report from the Solar Energy Industries Association listed FedEx among the top 
20 commercial users of solar electricity in the U.S.
FedEx Electronic Trade Documents automates the flow of international trade 
documents, allowing customers to electronically upload their own or FedEx-
generated documents, thus eliminating the need for manually printing customs 
paperwork. This allows both FedEx and the customer to save paper, hence 
reducing paper waste.
Strategic commitment by FedEx Express to obtain LEED (Leadership in Energy & 
Environmental Design) Certification for all new facilities in the U.S. We currently 
have nine LEED-certified facilities, including the FedEx Express World HQ in 
Memphis and our Enterprise Data Center—West in Colorado Springs.
For every FedEx Express® envelope shipped worldwide, FedEx will offset the 
carbon emissions related to its transport, no matter where it travels. We 
calculate the emissions it takes to transport an envelope to its destination, 
and we pay a not-for-profit offset provider (BP Target Neutral) to offset those 
emissions for every envelope we carry. 
The FedEx paper recycling program is designed to provide consistent and reliable 
recycling for paper waste produced within FedEx Office stores. In FY12, this 
program recycled more than 6.5 million lbs. of paper, saving more than 9,700 
cubic yards of landfill space and more than 55,000 trees.
In December 2011, FedEx Express introduced seven electrically assisted tricycles 
for package deliveries and collections in the third, fourth and tenth districts of 
Paris. Following this trial, we increased the coverage area from three to five 
districts in FY12 with the introduction of four additional tricycles.
The FedEx Sturdy Pak is the second reusable packaging option in the FedEx 
Express portfolio and accepts more material and weight (up to 20 lbs.) than the 
FedEx Reusable Envelope.APPENDIX: FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
EARTHSMART INNOVATIONSEnvironment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 20DESCRIPTION
Utilizing ICE (Intelligent Color Engine) software, the color management ink 
reduction project allows our wide format printing devices to use 31.2% less ink 
while achieving better color output, thereby reducing unwarranted waste when 
printing large format files for our customers. 
DESCRIPTION
With more than 30 different programs, Fuel Sense encompasses a 
comprehensive team-driven approach to optimize how we plan and actively 
manage our aircraft operations, ensuring the best possible tradeoff between fuel 
efficiency and on-time performance.
The FedEx Express alternative fuel goal is to source 30% of our aviation fuel 
needs by 2030. FedEx Express is working with alternative fuel companies as  
they transition from pilot projects to sustainable, scalable and competitive 
production quantities.
FedEx engineers use detailed analysis techniques to match the right vehicle  
to each route profile, yielding significant economic and environmental returns. 
This program has helped us achieve a 22% fuel efficiency improvement in the 
FedEx Express vehicle fleet since FY05. In particular, the use of more than 10,000 
clean diesel Sprinter vans has played a key role in improving overall vehicle fleet 
fuel efficiency.
In 2010, FedEx Express launched its Eco-Drive program in Japan to teach 
FedEx drivers how to operate vehicles more efficiently by applying the four key 
principles of the Eco-Drive program to their daily driving practices. Since then, 
the program has expanded to 10 Asia Pacific and 24 EMEA markets with some 
participating stations realizing fuel savings of more than 5%.
The Local Environmental Action Facilitators (LEAF) program designates 
employees at each location to champion their site’s sustainability efforts, with a 
goal of achieving GREEN Site certification for those sites. Over 370 designated 
LEAFs assist with implementation of programs, campaigns and initiatives to 
support FedEx Freight sustainability goals and objectives, such as reducing 
energy consumption and waste production.
The Energy Watch program offers practical tips and resources for reducing 
energy consumption at FedEx Freight work locations while reducing costs.  Each 
location’s on-site LEAF keeps tabs on energy consumption stats via monthly 
reports shared with the team. A little friendly competition among locations 
makes the program fun and encourages participation.APPENDIX: FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
INITIATIVE
FedEx Color Management Program (FedEx Office)
INITIATIVE
Fuel Sense (FedEx Express)
Alternative Aviation Fuels (FedEx Express)
Vehicle Refresh Plan: Reduce, Replace and Revolutionize (FedEx Express)
Eco-Drive (FedEx Express)
LEAF: Local Environmental Action Facilitators (FedEx Freight)
Energy Watch (FedEx Freight)EARTHSMART @ WORKEARTHSMART INNOVATIONS (CONTINUED)Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 21INITIATIVE
Waste Watch (FedEx Freight)
Supply Watch (FedEx Freight)
GREEN Site (FedEx Freight)
GREEN Fleet (FedEx Freight)
GREEN Building (FedEx Freight)
Ground Green (FedEx Ground)
Simplify Your Center (FedEx Office)DESCRIPTION
The Waste Watch program offers practical tips and resources for reducing waste 
generation at FedEx Freight work locations while reducing costs. With a LEAF 
keeping tabs on waste statistics via monthly reports, team members can see 
their efforts paying off. 
Supply Watch is a program designed to promote environmentally responsible 
supply decisions. Team members include sustainability attributes as part of 
product sourcing efforts, purchase more environmentally preferable products, 
exchange excess supplies between locations to reduce initial purchases and 
eliminate packaging waste and use less paper with electronic invoicing. 
The GREEN Site program focuses on specific actions that employees can take 
to reduce their facilities’ emissions and environmental impacts, supporting the 
associated Energy Watch, Waste Watch and Supply Watch programs. More than 
120 sites have been certified since the program began in September 2011.
The GREEN Fleet program encourages team members to implement and 
participate in companywide strategies and improvements that create efficiencies 
within our fleet that reduce emissions. Initiatives within the GREEN Fleet 
program include implementation of trailer skirts, SmartWay-approved low-
resistance tires, fuel cell forklifts in Springfield, Mo., and liquefied natural gas 
Class 8 tractor testing in Dallas, Texas.
The GREEN Building program encourages team members to implement and 
participate in companywide strategies and improvements that create efficiencies 
within our buildings that reduce emissions. Initiatives within the GREEN Building 
program include energy-efficient lighting upgrades, Supply Exchange Program 
and paper-shredding program.
Ground Green is an EPA Waste Wise-recognized program designed to integrate 
waste reduction and recycling techniques into FedEx Ground’s everyday operating 
procedures by educating, encouraging involvement and increasing team member 
awareness. Since the program’s inception in 2006, 93 million lbs. of materials 
have been diverted from landfills. 
Simplify Your Center is a program for streamlining day-to-day administrative 
functions, through simple changes like electronic shipping and transitioning to 
reusable safety deposit bags, at more than 1,800 FedEx Office stores to produce 
operational efficiencies that benefit our customers and meet our quantifiable 
environmental standards for sustainability.APPENDIX: FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
EARTHSMART @ WORK (CONTINUED)Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 22INITIATIVE
REACH: Reps Engaged And Connected @ Home (FedEx TechConnect)
INITIATIVE
EMBARQ (Sustainable Transportation Projects)
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (Sustainable Cities Projects) 
Tree Canada (Sustainable Cities Projects)
Greennovate (Sustainable Ecosystem Projects)
We Deliver Green! Classroom (Sustainable Cities and Ecosystem Projects)EARTHSMART OUTREACHDESCRIPTION
Approximately 900 of our FedEx TechConnect customer service representatives 
now work remotely from their homes through this program. Every representative 
who works from home saves an estimated 2,500 lbs. of CO2 emissions each year 
— and over the last three years, REACH has already spared the planet 2,800 
tons of CO2 emissions. 
DESCRIPTION
Through a nearly $2 million, four-year investment in EMBARQ, the World 
Resources Institute’s Center for Sustainable Transport, FedEx is helping to 
improve the quality of life for citizens of Mexico, Brazil and India. By contributing 
our extensive knowledge and expertise of vehicle patterns and transportation, 
we’re helping address congestion, air pollution and unsafe roads to provide a 
safer, faster and cleaner commute for people in these developing markets. 
FedEx team members are committed to making a positive impact in the 
communities where we work and live. That’s why we support the National Fish 
and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) to address urban environmental challenges 
across the U.S. Approximately 1,300 FedEx team members volunteered with 
NFWF since the beginning of the program.
FedEx supports Tree Canada’s work to rejuvenate school grounds by adding a 
variety of trees and shrubs. Its purpose is to teach students the value of trees, 
including energy savings, carbon sequestration and beautification and explain 
the mechanics of tree planting and maintenance.
In China, FedEx is proud to support the Greennovate Foundation, dedicated to 
providing free educational programs inspiring children and professionals to 
become environmental ambassadors in their communities.
We Deliver Green! Classroom promotes the planting of native plants, delivery 
of tree saplings and educating the next generation on biodiversity and 
environmental protection. APPENDIX: FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
EARTHSMART @ WORK (CONTINUED)Environment & Efficiency
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 23INITIATIVE
FedEx Express Aircraft Asset Replacement
FedEx Ground Hybrid Hydraulic Vehicle Testing
Cross-Operating Company Building Lighting Retrofits
FedEx Express Baggage Tow Truck Hydrogen Fuel Cell TestingOTHER FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
DESCRIPTION
Strategic asset management planning to replace all of our Boeing 727s with 
more fuel efficient 757s, and to replace many of our MD-11 aircraft with more 
efficient and greater payload Boeing 777s. The net effect of these aircraft 
replacements is an estimated fuel savings of more than 37 million gallons 
(avoided 353,792 metric tons of CO2 emissions) in FY12 alone.
Currently testing the use of hydraulic hybrid vehicle technologies in P&D vans 
across the U.S. and Canada. A fleet of six hydraulic hybrid vehicles has been 
deployed in a 24-month trial, accumulating a total of 49,276 miles, with average 
fuel economy showing a 50% improvement over conventional P&D vans.
Ongoing initiative to retrofit internal lighting fixtures inside FedEx facilities to 
energy-efficient lighting and occupancy sensors for additional energy savings. 
This initiative has saved 166,565,203 KWh of electricity (avoiding 117,520 
metrics tons of CO2e) in 447 FedEx facilities since 2006.
Collaboration with Plug Power Inc. to retrofit 15 Charlatte baggage tow tractors 
at our Memphis and Oakland hubs with hydrogen-powered fuel cells, as part of a 
three-year project funded with a $2.5 million grant awarded to Plug Power from 
the U.S. Department of Energy.APPENDIX: FEDEX ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVESCOMMUNITY & 
DISASTER RELIEF
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATECommunity & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 2TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION  3  
 Charitable Giving  3
DISASTER READINESS, RELIEF AND RECOVERY  4
 Charitable Shipping  4
 American Red Cross  4
 Direct Relief  5
 Superstorm Sandy  6
PEDESTRIAN AND ROAD SAFETY  6
 Safe Kids Walk This Way  6
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  7
 EarthSmart Outreach  8
OTHER CHARITABLE GIVING  9
 FIRST Robotics  10
TEAM MEMBER VOLUNTEERING AND THE UNITED WAY  11
 FedEx Cares Week  11
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  13
All currencies are translated in U.S. dollars.Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 3Our business model connects people to economic opportunity everywhere. 
And every year, we improve the efficiency of our networks so we can spread 
opportunity in more sustainable ways. But we also apply our expertise and 
resources to solve other problems faced by the communities in which we operate.
Our work is increasingly driven by the fact that more people live in cities than at 
any other time in history. Almost 90% of the migration to cities is happening in 
developing countries, producing about 70 million new city dwellers each year. 
People are looking for economic opportunity in cities, but few cities are designed 
for such rapid expansion. Pollution, congestion and safety issues are straining 
urban infrastructures. When disasters strike and community transportation 
networks shut down, huge numbers of people are left vulnerable — including 
our customers and our team members. That’s why we’re increasing our focus 
on community and disaster-relief issues, using our core resources, talent and 
investments to work with nonprofits, community leaders and advocates.
For more than 15 years, we have used the scale and reach of our network 
without hesitation to deliver critical supplies, services and expertise in times 
of disaster. When Superstorm Sandy struck, we moved immediately to help the 
17.5 million people affected. We donated $1.5 million to charities and in three 
weeks moved approximately 4 million lbs. of disaster aid on behalf of relief 
organizations. Over the past 10 years, we’ve delivered approximately 50 million 
lbs. of aid to disaster victims around the world. We also work with communities 
and small businesses to help them prepare before disasters occur.
We’re also dedicated to making streets and highways safer. Every day, millions 
of vehicles are on the road, sharing the streets with pedestrians and cyclists, 
including more than 90,000 owned and contracted FedEx trucks and vans. Road 
crashes take the lives of nearly 1.3 million people every year and injure 50 
million more. Road deaths are predicted to be the fifth leading cause of death by 
2030. Increased congestion and unsafe behavior contribute to these numbers. 
While FedEx will continue to educate and train our drivers to act responsibly, 
we know we must focus on helping an ever-growing number of urban centers 
improve their infrastructures, promoting awareness of traffic hazards and 
increasing safety for everyone. In 2000, FedEx teamed up with Safe Kids 
Worldwide to create the Safe Kids Walk This Way program, which is designed 
to create safer, more walkable communities, benefiting the most vulnerable road 
users. Our Walk This Way work includes increasing awareness of pedestrian 
safety issues in developing countries, funding infrastructure improvements and 
volunteer efforts by our team members in local communities.
We also work to make transportation more sustainable. Our work with EMBARQ, 
the World Resources Institute’s Center for Sustainable Transport, tackles issues 
like making Mexico City’s public transportation system more efficient. Our 
support to optimize the city’s Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system has reduced CO2 
emissions there by 10,000 metric tons since 2010. Overall BRT has eliminated 
290,000 tons of CO2 since 2010. We are also collaborating with The Nature 
Conservancy to create a biofuels roadmap for the long-distance transportation 
sector, including aircraft. This roadmap will serve as a compass for biofuels 
adoption in our fleet and potentially across the industry. Our team members have also pitched in to help improve the sustainability and 
quality of life in communities around the U.S. In our fiscal year 2012, we engaged 
16,589 people in a wide variety of community projects, including programs that 
resulted in more than 86,000 new trees being planted.
CORE GIVING AREAS
We organize our corporate giving in three core focus areas: 
•	DISASTER READINESS, RELIEF AND RECOVERY  — working with 
international disaster relief organizations to transport  
aid to victims and support disaster preparedness  
education initiatives.
•	PEDESTRIAN AND ROAD SAFETY — supporting organizations 
that increase awareness of pedestrian issues and create 
infrastructure improvements to keep pedestrians safe.
•	ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  — focusing investments 
and volunteer activities that create sustainable transportation 
solutions, promote healthy urban environments and preserve 
valuable ecosystems.  
In addition to these three core areas, we support strategic community 
investments in education and diversity, as well as local-market 
community service initiatives by team members.
Our total charitable contributions across all our giving areas amounted 
to $46 million in FY12.
 
Charitable Giving  
 
 
This consisted of direct cash contributions and donated shipping 
services to nonprofit organizations, and team member contributions to 
our annual United Way campaign. We plan to include the value of pro 
bono team member services and charitable donations of retired assets 
(e.g., aircraft, computers, etc.) in future years.FEDEX DELIVERS MORE THAN THE 
GOODS AND SERVICES THAT POWER THE 
WORLD’S ECONOMY. OUR NETWORK OF 
TEAM MEMBERS, TRUCKS, PLANES AND 
RESOURCES HELPS COMMUNITIES AROUND 
THE WORLD. 
Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 4DISASTER READINESS, RELIEF AND RECOVERY 
For decades, FedEx has used our powerful and versatile transportation and 
logistics network to deliver critical supplies, services and expertise to support 
victims of disaster. Disaster relief is in our DNA. Our operations teams, pilots 
and drivers consider it an honor to be a part of relief teams that save lives 
around the world. 
Each year, we set aside space for as much as 4 million lbs. of disaster-related 
charitable shipping. We primarily align with four nonprofit agencies to 
coordinate relief efforts: American Red Cross (ARC), Direct Relief, Heart to  
Heart International and The Salvation Army. But we know that delivering 
supplies is only one piece of how we can help communities affected by 
disasters. That’s why we also leverage our logistics expertise, scale and 
influence to invest in preparedness initiatives for families, communities and 
small businesses.
Charitable Shipping AMERICAN RED CROSS
FedEx has been a supporter of ARC for 18 years. We’re proud that ARC considers 
us a vital part of its U.S. logistics and international relief team. Through the 
years we’ve provided more than $10 million in cash and in-kind support. Each 
year we provide shipping for thousands of pounds of relief supplies.  Our support 
includes the time and talents of our team members all over the world. In FY12, 
we shipped 800,000 lbs. of supplies for ARC.
American Red Cross
AMERICASRELIEF TEAM
FedEx recently sponsored a workshop in Miami for AmericasRelief 
Team, convening representatives from the Dominican Republic Airport 
Authority, Delta Air Lines, American Airlines, Florida International 
University, the U.S. Southern Command, Miami International Airport 
and others. These experts evaluated response efforts in the wake of the 
Haiti earthquake and determined that the airport there could have been 
up and running much faster if there had been a more robust disaster-
response plan in place. In fact, many airports in the Caribbean, a region 
hit frequently by hurricanes, could benefit from such planning. Moving 
forward, we’ll help develop standard operating procedures for airports 
and seaports to recover from disasters. We started with a pilot program 
in the Dominican Republic in February 2013, which will then roll out 
throughout the Caribbean to interested airports and seaports. 
Just as immediate access to aid is vital after a disaster, FedEx understands that 
families, communities and small businesses must be prepared for disasters. 
Preparation can mean the difference between life and death. We recently 
launched several initiatives with ARC focused on preparedness:
•	RACE TO PREPARE:  Since 2009, the FedEx Racing Team, NASCAR driver 
Denny Hamlin and ARC have teamed up to help kids learn the importance 
of being prepared for disasters. Together, we have held Race to Prepare 
events in several cities across the U.S. each year. These events engage 
elementary schoolchildren, where they “race to prepare” starter 
preparedness kits containing basic materials one might need in case of 
disaster (e.g., gloves, flashlights, whistles, water bottles, etc.). 
•	READY WHEN THE TIME COMES:  FedEx team members in six cities 
across the U.S. have participated in Ready When the Time Comes, an ARC 
corporate volunteer program. Through specialized training, ARC teaches 
our team members how to execute crucial disaster-response functions like 
mass feeding operations and shelter care. In the event of a disaster in their 
community, they’re prepared to act as part of ARC’s local response team.
•	READY RATING:  FedEx support for this ARC program gives businesses, 
schools and other organizations access to toolkits that help them prepare 
for disasters and, should one strike, to maintain or recover operations and 
protect lives and property.
•	INTERNATIONAL PREPAREDNESS:  In collaboration with the International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, we have also supported 
the Regional Disaster Management Unit network with operations in Dubai, 
Panama and Kuala Lumpur. These disaster-management units are large 
warehouse complexes that enable the organization to help up to 5,000 
families anywhere in the world within 72 hours. We have also supported 
training designed to build the skills and capacity of first responders in 
Tanzania in the event of a natural disaster.  
Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 5DIRECT RELIEF 
Since 2003, FedEx has provided more than $1.8 million in cash grants and 
transportation assistance to Direct Relief. We have worked together to help 
some of the world’s most vulnerable communities prepare for and respond to 
natural disasters. In FY12, we donated 400,000 lbs. of shipping to that organization.
Direct Reliefand supplies to treat 100 people for up to five days, in clinics in Texas, Alabama, 
Mississippi, Louisiana and Florida. Internationally, we support Direct Relief’s 
one-of-a-kind Hurricane Preparedness Module program, which pre-positions 
medicines and medical supplies in the Caribbean and Central America in 
preparation for hurricanes. To date, we have helped place 26 modules across 
Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Honduras. 
Together, the modules can treat 26,000 people for up to one month.
HEART TO HEART INTERNATIONAL
FedEx has worked with Heart to Heart International for almost 20 years to assist 
that organization in its effort to provide disaster assistance and humanitarian 
aid to more than 50 countries around the world. In total, FedEx has helped Heart 
to Heart distribute $900 million in medical aid. Additionally, a new Heart to 
Heart initiative called the “Ready Relief Box” is now part of the donated medical 
shipment program. These sturdy containers, built to withstand travel and the 
elements, contain enough medicine to treat 400 people.
THE SALVATION ARMY
Since 2006, FedEx has helped The Salvation Army and its emergency response 
teams reach victims and other first responders with vital materials, food and 
water immediately after disasters strike. We have donated 15 Disaster Response 
Units (DRUs, or canteen trucks) valued at a combined $1.5 million to increase the 
speed and efficiency of The Salvation Army’s disaster response network. Each 
DRU will feed up to 2,500 people a day in times of disaster recovery and during 
regular feeding programs year-round.
DRUs are now located in U.S. cities, including Boston, New York, Washington, 
Atlanta, Miami, Chicago,  New Orleans, San Francisco, Los Angeles and 
Memphis. Internationally, DRUs are located in London, Sydney, Mexico City, 
Puerto Rico and Winnipeg. Three more DRUs will be delivered in 2013 to São 
Paulo, Pittsburgh and Mumbai. At FedEx, we understand the value of increased 
speed and efficiency better than almost anyone, and we’re proud that the DRUs 
we’ve donated have provided immediate relief to people affected by wildfires in 
California and Australia, floods in Chicago and Mexico, an oil spill in the Gulf of 
Mexico and most recently in New York City in response to Superstorm Sandy.
After 9/11, the U.S. Surgeon General mandated that each state establish 
Medical Reserve Corps (MRC) units to help address community health needs 
in case of a public emergency. MRC units function at the county level and are 
teams of trained, credentialed medical volunteers who supplement existing 
emergency and health professionals. While counties across the U.S. have 
recruited and trained units, there is a lack of funding to equip the teams with 
supplies. In response to this critical need, FedEx supported Direct Relief to 
design, field-test and donate customized Med-Packs to MRC units. The packs 
help MRCs to be both effective and highly mobile. Each pack contains medical 
essentials, including first-aid supplies, triage materials and basic diagnostic 
equipment, and can be carried as a backpack by volunteers. 
To date, we’ve distributed more than 1,200 Med-Packs to 15 counties in 
California. Our goal is for the pack to serve as a national model, helping MRCs 
across the country to be better prepared for emergencies. In 2012, the Office 
of the Surgeon General recognized FedEx with its National Leadership and 
Partnership Award for this initiative.
FedEx and Direct Relief are also working together to help U.S. and international 
healthcare facilities maintain care during disasters. Through in-kind shipping 
support, we help Direct Relief equip health clinics in the U.S. with hurricane 
preparedness packs. So far, we’ve placed 30 kits, each with enough medicine Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 6PEDESTRIAN AND ROAD SAFETY 
With more than 90,000 owned and contracted FedEx trucks on the road each day, 
the safety of drivers, pedestrians and cyclists is of utmost concern to us. Safety 
training for our drivers is mandatory, but we also recognize that we can help 
improve the awareness of safety issues to prevent injuries to all road users.  In 
2000, FedEx teamed up with Safe Kids Worldwide to do just that, and together 
we established the Safe Kids Walk This Way program. In the past 12 years, our 
support has helped Safe Kids grow from just three cities in the U.S. to more than 
200 cities in the U.S. and 10 countries internationally. 
Programming includes annual events as well as year-round initiatives. With 
programs in the U.S., China, Brazil, India, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, Vietnam, 
Thailand and the Philippines, hundreds of thousands of children, teachers and 
parents each year join FedEx volunteers to celebrate International Walk to 
School Day. These local celebrations include mass walks to school, educational 
programs and opportunities for community leaders to shine a light on particular 
pedestrian safety issues in their communities. These important local issues have 
included unsafe intersections, schools that lack crossing guards and streets that 
lack safe sidewalks.
Safe Kids Walk This WaySUPERSTORM SANDY 
When Superstorm Sandy hit the shore of the East Coast of the U.S. 
in the fall of 2012, it affected 17.5 million residents and crippled the 
infrastructure of New York and New Jersey. In times of disasters like 
Sandy, FedEx is one of the only options available to deliver critical 
supplies and help communities back onto the path toward normalcy. 
  
We’re honored that New York Governor Andrew Cuomo asked Bill 
Bonneau, manager of station operations for FedEx Express, to help 
direct delivery of supplies throughout New York state. Even in the 
face of great devastation, Bonneau found a way to make it work. He 
helped direct an effort that, when completed, assisted in delivering 
almost 4 million lbs. of relief aid on behalf of agencies such as the 
American Red Cross, Heart to Heart International, Direct Relief and 
The Salvation Army. Bonneau and his team delivered everything from 
meals and clothing to water and medical supplies. They helped  
provide logistical expertise in delivering more than 85 generators to 
LaGuardia Airport as well as police stations and even polling stations 
to help residents exercise their right to vote during the national 
presidential elections.
Thousands of team members also found ways to join Bonneau’s 
efforts. Days before the storm hit, team members began coordinating 
with relief agencies to set in motion the pre-staging of supplies 
including bottled water, ice, generators and tarps. Our pilots flew the 
first planes to touch down once airports reopened. Many of our team 
members, including people who themselves were without power, 
showed up at work to keep trucks rolling, our planes flying and get our 
customers’ packages delivered. Team members worldwide participated 
in volunteer efforts ranging from purchasing blankets or assembling 
disaster care kits to volunteering at local food banks.
Superstorm Sandy
In addition to community outreach, FedEx also sponsors Safe Kids to create safer 
walking environments, conducting risk assessments with the goal of improving 
infrastructure such as sidewalks and crosswalks. Together we also work to 
influence traffic legislation, like establishing the first pedestrian zones in China, 
and to support task forces that identify local issues and enact solutions, like 
adding countdown signals with child-friendly buttons. 
In August 2012, FedEx and Safe Kids released “Walking Safely, A Report to 
the Nation,” the third report in a series that examined 15-year trends in child 
pedestrian injuries and deaths in the U.S. The study reported some positive 
findings and some startling ones. Overall, the number of children injured or 
killed is down, but the increasing risk for kids today has shifted to a surprising 
demographic: teenagers. The report reaffirmed the need to continue programs 
that have been effective for younger children, like Safe Kids Walk This Way, 
while also casting our focus on education and behavior change for older children.
Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 7UNITED NATIONS DECADE OF ACTION FOR ROAD SAFETY
In May 2011, the United Nations launched the Decade of Action for Road Safety 
2011–2020, organized to address the sobering statistics of 1.3 million deaths 
and 50 million injuries each year from traffic-related incidents. As a member of 
the UN Road Safety Collaboration, we plan to share our safety expertise with a 
diverse group of global organizations to help improve safety conditions for our 
communities and our team members. 
FedEx also supports the UN Decade of Action through our investment in the 
UN Road Safety Fund. The fund supports strong, evidence-based road injury 
prevention programs like the Safe Kids Model School Zone Project. This pilot 
designs “model school zones” by assessing the needs of an individual school to 
make physical modifications, increasing awareness among children and parents, 
reinforcing traffic laws for motorists and educating on behavioral changes. The 
Model School Zone Project is designed to be replicated at other schools where 
pedestrian safety is an issue. 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
At FedEx, we believe that the success of our business and the future of the 
environment are deeply intertwined. Our commitment starts with our own 
operations, but it also includes environmental stewardship in the communities 
we serve. Our enterprisewide sustainability program, EarthSmart®, includes 
EarthSmart Outreach philanthropic and volunteer efforts that focus on promoting 
sustainable transportation, cities and ecosystems.
THE NATURE CONSERVANCY 
As the first adopter of hybrid-electric delivery vehicles, FedEx is proud to 
be a pioneer in fuel-efficient technology and emissions reduction. But our 
commitment to reducing our carbon footprint doesn’t stop on the road. Aircraft emissions make up more than 80% of our total fleet emissions. Because our 
company has always been dedicated to innovation and game-changing ideas, 
we have set a goal to use 30% alternative fuels in our aircraft by 2030. To 
help guide our progress toward this goal, we’re collaborating with The Nature 
Conservancy to create a sustainable biofuels roadmap for the entire long-
distance transportation sector. This roadmap, which will be based on extensive 
research and collaboration, will help us tackle issues such as identifying the 
most viable biofuels for our industry and ways to use them in existing aircraft 
engines — all in a way that is fiscally and environmentally sound. We also see 
opportunities to apply biofuels technology to long-haul trucking segments that 
can’t utilize electric or hybrid-electric technologies.
EMBARQ
Our sustainable transportation programs are designed to reduce emissions and 
congestion, enhance safety and expand accessibility in developing nations. 
Through a nearly $2 million, four-year investment in EMBARQ, the World 
Resources Institute’s Center for Sustainable Transport, FedEx is helping to 
improve the quality of life for citizens of Mexico, India and Brazil.
•	MEXICO: Our first grant to EMBARQ is designed to help Mexico City’s Bus 
Rapid Transit (BRT) system optimize its vehicle operations. BRT operates 
buses that travel like trains, moving along special corridors and stopping 
only at designated stations. The benefits are immediate: BRT carries 
more than 800,000 riders daily, taking thousands of cars off the road and 
eliminating about 290,000 tons of carbon dioxide pollution since 2010. In 
2013, Mexico City received the Sustainable Transport Award from The 
Institute for Transportation Development and Policy — in part due to the 
impact of their BRT system. We also recently launched a two-year project 
focused on road safety to address community safety issues associated 
with BRT.  
•	INDIA:  By 2030, it’s estimated that India will have 215 million new 
urban residents and that its carbon dioxide emissions will grow nearly 
sevenfold. Our investment in EMBARQ’s Bus Karo Plus program can 
help alleviate worsening congestion, pollution and safety concerns by 
supporting a peer-to-peer learning network for public transport providers. 
The aim of Bus Karo Plus is for at least 20 Indian cities to have more than 
40% of motorized trips take place on public transportation by 2016. The 
program currently reaches 26 cities and has the potential to impact 22 
bus agencies, 42,000 buses and 28 million passengers daily. 
•	BRAZIL: As Rio de Janeiro prepares for the World Cup in 2014 and the 
Olympics in 2016, an improved BRT is an urgent need. EMBARQ and 
FedEx plan to explore opportunities to engage local experts to train BRT 
drivers on safety and create toolkits for transit agencies outlining how to 
enhance the performance, image and perception of the system. SAFE KIDS CANADA
In Canada, more than 14,000 pedestrians are injured every year, 
including 1,500 children, many of these by unsafe drivers. For more 
than 10 years, we’ve worked with Safe Kids in Canada to promote 
safe driving habits and to keep pedestrian safety top of mind. One of 
the initiatives we have launched includes Canada’s Pace Car Drivers, a 
program that encourages Canadians to pledge to be safe, responsible 
drivers. This program alone, which is promoted by NASCAR driver Denny 
Hamlin, has reached thousands of Canadians over the last two years. Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 8THE NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE FOUNDATION
Our support of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) gives our team  
members opportunities to make a positive impact in their communities and 
address urban environmental challenges across the U.S. Through urban conservation  
projects, the program transforms cities by making them cleaner, more accessible 
and vibrant places to play, learn and work. Through FedEx team member 
engagement, the projects restore wetlands, improve air quality, encourage 
environmental stewardship and foster community environmental education.
For the past three years, FedEx has helped revitalize urban environments in 14 
cities: Pittsburgh, Memphis, Washington, Philadelphia, Dallas, Indianapolis, Los 
Angeles, Chicago, Colorado Springs, Newark, Seattle, Miami, San Francisco and 
Boston. More than 1,300 FedEx team members have volunteered with NFWF in 
these events. 
EarthSmart Outreach
FedEx team members in Dallas volunteered with the Trinity Commons Foundation 
to remove 500 gallons of trash and replant native species as part of the 10,000-
acre Trinity River Corridor project. The project’s aim is to create the “Central 
Park” of downtown Dallas, a destination for walking, biking, running and water 
sports, a venue for special events, connector of Dallas neighborhoods and vital 
tool for improving air quality across the city.
FedEx participates in two NFWF grant programs that have various levels of 
federal and private matching: community-based conservation grants to support 
wetlands, tree planting and streambank and riverbank restoration projects and 
watershed grants awarded to groups working on a local project to improve 
watersheds in the Chesapeake Bay basin. NFWF is able to leverage public funding  
with private money, which means our investment will receive a minimum of 
1:1 leverage from agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and 
the U.S. Forest Service, as well as from recipient nonprofits and other corporate 
partners. Our total conservation impact over the next three years is anticipated to 
be more than $3.43 million for on-the-ground conservation projects. RAIL ISN’T ALWAYS THE ANSWER FOR MASS TRANSIT
Once upon a time in the 1960s, the city of Curitiba, Brazil, was choking 
on its own growth. Residents feared their city’s character would 
be sacrificed to traffic jams and sprawl. An architect named Jaime 
Lerner proposed a solution: buses that act like trains. Each would 
carry hundreds of passengers from special stations along only a 
handful of corridors, channeling growth and reducing pollution. Lerner 
would implement the plan as Curitiba’s mayor, becoming a hero in 
the process. But instead of becoming the model for sustainable urban 
growth, Curitiba’s lessons went unlearned. “It was a brilliant idea, 
brilliantly executed. And then, as an idea, it languished,” says Clayton 
Lane, who would help resuscitate the idea 30 years later.
Lane is the chief operating officer of EMBARQ, a global network of 
planners and experts dedicated to sharing the Curitiba model with 
local governments. Its first Center for Sustainable Transport opened 
in Mexico City in 2002, leading to the creation of a bus rapid transit 
(BRT) corridor through the heart of the capital that costs far less than 
rail but carries a similar volume of passengers. A year after the BRT 
corridor’s launch in 2005, Mexico City’s incoming mayor vowed to 
expand the system to 10 lines. Mexico City’s “Metrobus” now carries 
800,000 riders daily. Just as striking are the environmental benefits: 
Metrobus takes cars off the road and runs on ultra-low-sulfur diesel 
fuel, reducing smog and eliminating an estimated 290,000 tons of CO2.
Lane is quick to correct any misconceptions that “sustainable 
transport” is about carbon emissions or buses. It’s about people 
and time. Jaime Lerner didn’t design a bus system; “he was really 
designing a small city that could grow out and grow up in a compact 
way,” Lane says. “Transportation is a ‘derived demand.’ People use 
it to do the things they want, and that involves moving across long 
distances within cities or states — distances that could be reduced 
with better patterns of development.” Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 9THE ARBOR DAY FOUNDATION 
In November 2012, FedEx approved a contribution enabling the company to 
become the national sponsor of The Arbor Day Foundation’s Disaster Recovery 
Program. This program will be the national resource for communities to turn to 
as they seek to restore urban tree canopies and ecological balance in the face of 
extreme devastation. The Arbor Day Foundation has been active in responding 
to the needs of communities after natural disasters, including work in Alabama, 
Missouri and Texas. This national collaboration will help save money and energy 
by ensuring that after disasters, the right trees are planted at the right times in 
the right places. By developing a national program with an established recovery 
process and fulfillment system, The Arbor Day Foundation will be able to respond 
efficiently, effectively and strategically to the varied needs that communities 
face. Our Enchanted Forest Facebook campaign is another way we support The 
Arbor Day Foundation. Launched in honor of Earth Day, the campaign will help 
The Arbor Day Foundation plant 100,000 trees that have the capacity to absorb 
up to 30,000 tons of carbon dioxide over their life span and reduce  
storm-water runoff and soil erosion.
TREE CANADA
FedEx continues to revitalize school grounds across Canada through 
our Greening Canada’s School Grounds program. Since 2007, FedEx 
has sponsored the greening of more than 60 school grounds across 
Canada. In addition, we have planted more than 60,000 trees in 
support of reforestation programs, including Tree Canada’s B.C. 
Fire ReLeaf program, which helped homeowners, landowners and 
municipalities in British Columbia to replant trees after a wave of 
forest fires in the summer of 2009. FedEx Express Canada is the 
2009 recipient of the Eterne Award, a national award given to an 
outstanding sponsor of Tree Canada to recognize its environmental 
stewardship and commitment to improving the lives of Canadians 
through greening and reforestation projects.
OTHER CHARITABLE GIVING 
In addition to our core focus areas of Disaster Readiness, Relief and Recovery; 
Pedestrian and Road Safety; and Environmental Sustainability, FedEx provides 
additional charitable shipping, education programs, strategic community investment 
and other local efforts that support the service initiatives of our team members.
FIRST ROBOTICS
Our collaboration with FIRST Robotics (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science 
and Technology) encourages students across the globe to embrace technology, 
innovation and forward thinking. Our donated shipping supports student teams WASTE PAYS: BRAZIL RECYCLING COMBATS POVERTY
Our Latin American and Caribbean region has worked to protect 
the environment for more than a decade — recycling everything 
from cardboard to motor oil — but one team in the Brazilian city of 
Campinas, São Paulo State, decided to take the effort further. Five 
employees saw an opportunity to take the idea of reuse and reinvent 
to the next level and tackle some pretty big issues at the same time.
In 2008, Teresa Bertelle, Ana Rita Bosshard, Ronaldo Farias, Paulo 
Bovo and Fernando Campos formed the Environmental Quality Means 
Better Life program. The team wanted to give their co-workers a 
chance to use recyclables from their homes and their workplaces for 
some good. The team figured out that if they donated the salvaged 
waste to local nonprofits, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) could 
give the waste a second life. “We started recycling around 2000, and 
after a few years, we began to think about how to make our efforts 
bigger and help the poor,” says Bertelle, who is freight movement 
center coordinator of our ramp facility in Campinas. 
Examples of how they are turning waste into opportunity are 
impressive. Sociedade Interativa Sol Nascente, an NGO that provides 
aid to socially vulnerable mothers and their children, uses donated 
recyclables to teach new job skills. Mothers in the program turn 
disposable packs used in coffee machines into stylish bags, generating 
income for their families and for the organization. They also develop 
their creativity and motor skills — not to mention a stronger sense 
of self-esteem — as they discover they can create and produce. 
Interativa Sol Nascente is just one of dozens of NGOs participating 
in programs coordinated by the Campinas government to assist the 
22,400 people in the area who live in extreme poverty. 
Indaiatuba, a nearby city in partnership with Campinas Federal 
University, runs a biofuels project that reuses motor and cooking oil. 
Since 2006, more than 28 tractors and heavy vehicles have used the 
spent oil that otherwise would have wound up in sink drains and 
polluted water supplies. In all, more than 200 FedEx team members 
have recycled almost 78.7 tons of cardboard, paper, plastic and 
aluminum cans, 3,961 liters of oil, 805 printer cartridges and 526 
disposable coffee machine packs. 
FedEx Brazil figured out how to keep waste out of landfills and how to 
keep water supplies cleaner; it also helped create a better life for the 
community. Bertelle sees that team members are also more aware of 
how waste can make a difference. “We don’t do this to be heroes,” 
she says. “We do it from the heart.”Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 10as they design, build and program their robots to compete. Teams are required to 
develop strategy and build robots based on sound engineering principles. Total 
shipments equaled 900,000 lbs. of in-kind shipping in FY12, our second-largest 
recurring charitable shipping program. 
FIRST RoboticsJUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT
Through financial grants and the time and talent of more than 600 of our 
team members, FedEx supports 350,000 Junior Achievement students in 88 
countries. We sponsor six regional JA Company of the Year competitions, 
which invite winning student teams in each country to present their business 
ideas to panels of experts, entrepreneurs and business leaders, including FedEx 
executives. FedEx team member volunteers have helped more than 1,000 student 
entrepreneurs learn how their businesses can be vital tools for opening new 
markets, creating jobs and developing products that make people’s lives better. 
The program is inspiring a new generation of globally minded small-business 
owners in Europe, Latin America, Asia, North America, Africa and the Middle East. 
ACCESS SCHOOL CURRICULUM
Erika Tolar, FedEx services sales manager, and Rick Siciliano, FedEx  
services solutions advisor, helped to create a six-month curriculum based  
entirely on the FedEx business. Students used FedEx communication  
materials as “textbooks,” listened to a FedEx earnings call to learn 
about goal-setting and performance measures, took a tour of our ramp 
facility at Houston Intercontinental Airport to understand how our 
network operates and learned about corporate and personal branding.
Throughout the curriculum, students used technology to access 
the expertise of FedEx employees in the U.S., Mexico and India. 
Students and employees exchanged emails and blog posts to discuss 
assignments and answer questions. In the spring of 2012, this 
project  caught the attention of the Alliance for Excellent Education, 
which featured it during one of many Digital Learning Day activities, 
engaging 2 million students nationwide. 
OTHER EDUCATION GRANTS 
We are committed to helping students from all backgrounds gain access to 
quality education. We are proud to support organizations such as Teach For 
America (TFA) and New Leaders Inc., programs that provide innovative methods 
to close the educational achievement gap within low-income communities. 
Through the help of FedEx, TFA was able to recruit its most diverse corps in 
history with 20% growth in African-American corps members, a 40% increase 
in Latino corps members and a 5% increase in Native American corps members 
in 2012. Our support has helped TFA build a team of experienced diversity and 
inclusion leaders focused on developing a robust network of diverse teachers 
and staff members. Their mission is to raise awareness about the challenges and 
opportunities related to diversity in education. ORBIS INTERNATIONAL
ORBIS operates the world’s only Flying Eye Hospital. We provide complimentary 
maintenance support for the aircraft, and our pilots serve as volunteer crew 
members. We also support two Flying Eye Hospital medical programs each year. 
Our team members serve as volunteers in support of local market initiatives, 
and we sponsor two ORBIS FedEx Fellowships each year, which provide medical 
training to ophthalmologists. We also provide complimentary transportation of 
medicines to hospital-based programs worldwide. In recognition of 30 years of 
FedEx support for ORBIS International, FedEx won the Ueltschi Humanitarian 
Award from the National Business Aviation Association and the Boston 
College Center for Corporate Citizenship CSR Film Festival award for a video 
showcasing our support for ORBIS International . 
AIRCRAFT DONATIONS
FedEx Express has donated 66 aircraft, such as Boeing 727s, that have reached 
the end of their useful lives in our fleet and now will serve another life with 
external organizations such as aviation museums, college/university aviation 
departments, airport fire departments and law enforcement agencies throughout 
the world. These donated airplanes are used mostly for training and education. 
These in-kind donations are conservatively valued at approximately $30 million 
since the program began in 1995, when we donated our first plane to the 
Children’s Museum of Memphis as the centerpiece of its “Going Places” flight 
simulation exhibit.
ACTION MEDEOR
Around half a million women die every year because of pregnancy-related 
complications, and over 90% of these maternal deaths occur in developing 
countries. To help combat this issue, FedEx Express donated $50,000 to United 
Way Worldwide in support of the medical aid organization Action Medeor for 
a new maternity clinic in Tanzania. The maternal mortality rate in Tanzania, 
a developing country in East Africa, is one of the highest in the world. The 
nomadic Maasai people are particularly affected by this problem. FedEx funding 
will provide important medical equipment to a facility in the northern part of 
Tanzania, which had previously been poorly equipped. The contributions will 
also support the installation of solar panels and the purchase of a new transport 
vehicle to bring expectant mothers from remote residential areas to the clinic. Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 11FedEx Office, headquartered in Dallas, launched a new multi-year program with 
TFA to include executive and employee engagement. FedEx Office also donates 
educator discount cards to TFA corps members. FedEx Office has distributed 
more than 18,000 of the cards, which give TFA teachers discounts for print and 
copy services, lowering their out-of-pocket expenses for classroom materials. In 
the 2012–2013 school year, TFA teachers will reach 750,000 students, 90% of 
whom are African-American or Latino, in low-income communities every day. 
FedEx support of New Leaders Inc. helped to attract and prepare 85 outstanding 
principals and administrators to lead urban Memphis schools, reaching 45,000 
students. Our support helps to build the capacity of the Aspiring Principals 
Program, the Emerging Leaders Program and New Leaders Inc.
MINORITY SCHOLARSHIPS 
FedEx supports more than 60 scholarships to minority students in the U.S. 
and provides grant and program support to organizations such as the Hispanic 
Scholarship Fund, the Asian & Pacific Islander American Scholarship Fund, the 
United Negro College Fund, the American Indian College Fund, Facing History 
and Ourselves, Memphis Challenge and INROADS. Our goal is to provide diverse 
young people across the country with access to educational opportunities. 
DRESS FOR SUCCESS 
Dress for Success Worldwide is an international nonprofit organization dedicated 
to improving the lives of women in 110 cities across 12 countries. Each year, 
the organization helps 55,000 women rebuild their lives and gain economic 
independence. FedEx supports the organization across both of these key 
dimensions, providing philanthropic donations, in-kind shipping and hands-on 
team member engagement. The Women’s Network at FedEx supports Dress for 
Success through local fundraising efforts and clothing drives and by sharing their 
expertise via the organization’s Professional Women’s Group.
A DRESS FOR SUCCESS STORY
Three years ago, Eve Cardona was an unemployed mother of two 
children (one with special needs and the other with health issues) 
living in an apartment with her unemployed husband. A few months 
later, she was a single parent, forced to move in with a relative for 
financial reasons.  
Now, thanks to several programs run by Dress for Success — 
including clothing donation, financial literacy training and its 
Professional Women’s Group — Cardona is employed. In fact, Dress 
for Success has helped more than 650,000 disadvantaged women find 
jobs at places like FedEx. Cardona has earned two associate degrees 
(one in paralegal studies and one in liberal arts with a concentration 
in psychology) and has managed her money well enough to pay off 
$13,000 in debt. She has also secured an apartment in New York City 
for herself and her kids and is saving for her own home.TEAM MEMBER VOLUNTEERING AND  
THE UNITED WAY
FedEx plays an active role in improving life in the communities we serve. Thousands 
of our team members volunteer each year to make our local communities better 
places to live, work and play. Each of our operating companies and regions 
assess their local community needs and coordinate with the team members in 
those areas. Efforts span a range of focus areas, including volunteer activities at 
local hospitals, food pantries, clothing drives and more.  
FEDEX CARES WEEK
FedEx also works with the United Way to sponsor our annual companywide 
contribution campaign. Activities kick off with FedEx Cares Week, providing 
volunteer and service opportunities for team members in the U.S. and around the 
world. We also encourage team members in the U.S. to participate in a payroll-
deduction contribution campaign, which is in its 37th year.
Our goal is not only to give back to the communities in which we operate, 
but also to raise awareness of United Way’s mission, partner agencies and 
programs. Ultimately, we strive to create meaningful volunteer experiences and 
foster a common culture of participation and giving. 
In the fall of 2012, more than 6,000 team members around the globe participated 
in FedEx Cares Week, a 36% increase in participation from the previous year. 
Team members invested nearly 34,000 volunteer hours in their communities — 
from building solar-powered playhouses in the San Francisco Bay Area to helping 
prepare meals in Atlanta to combat malnutrition. In addition to their time, team 
members generously pledged $12.1 million in their local communities through 
our annual United Way campaign.
Team members also participated in the second annual FedEx Cares Tote Bag 
contest where they contacted a local agency, collected items needed by the 
agency, delivered the items and took creative photos to capture the deliveries.  
The teams then submitted their photos and stories in the contest for a chance 
to win a grant for the organizations they served. FedEx gave 16 grants totaling 
$12,250 to the organizations served by the winning teams.  
We also participate in a number of additional activities with the United  
Way, including the Loaned Executive program. Over the past seven years,  
we have “loaned” over 500 FedEx team members to assist the United Way  
with local campaigns. We’re proud to say we are one of the few remaining 
companies to connect our executive corps with the needs of local communities 
through this program.    
FedEx Cares WeekCommunity & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 12OTHER TEAM MEMBER GIVING EFFORTS
Our team members around the world are involved in thousands of efforts 
designed to support their local communities. Here are just a few examples:  
•	“Tug-a-Plane” events are competitions in which teams of 20 to 25 people 
pull a FedEx aircraft 12 feet in a timed competition. Each team pays 
approximately $1,000 to compete, and all proceeds go to charity. There 
is no cost to the charity for FedEx participation in the event. The 20th 
anniversary of the first Plane Pull, which involved FedEx and the Special 
Olympics of Virginia, came in 2012. Since that time, many other airlines 
have launched similar programs based on the FedEx ”Tug-a-Plane” program. 
•	Hockey is Canada’s game, and with that in mind, FedEx Express Canada 
launched a program in 2012 with Skate To Great to provide less fortunate 
kids with the chance to enjoy the country’s national pastime. Skate To 
Great is a Canadian nonprofit organization that provides new and used 
figure skates and hockey equipment to deserving children and at-risk 
youth through local charities. Through the program, FedEx has donated 
$20,000 worth of new skates and equipment to Canadian charities, 
including Big Brothers Big Sisters and Courage Canada, and our team 
members generously donated skates during our 2012 national holiday 
drive. FedEx Express Canada also provides donated shipping in support  
of Skate To Great programs. 
•	As part of Clean Up the World, an environmental campaign that 
originated in Australia in 1987, more than 80% of FedEx Trade Networks 
Taiwan team members devoted their Saturday morning to cleaning up 
their neighborhood park. Team members gathered at Bi-Hu Park, which is 
located just a few minutes from the FedEx Trade Networks office in Taipei 
City. They picked up trash and swept dry leaves away from walking paths. 
This project is the office’s second organized activity to help protect the 
environment. Last year, they participated in tree planting. Team members 
appreciated the opportunity to better their community and make a 
difference in their own neighborhoods.
•	In Vietnam, team members have brought free healthcare to more than 
5,500 children in 21 provinces since the launch of the FedEx Delivers 
Heartbeats program in FY12.  Now entering its second year, FedEx 
Delivers Heartbeats allows thousands of poor children to be examined 
and diagnosed by the country’s top cardiologists and surgeons without 
leaving their home provinces. FedEx volunteers are encouraged to 
contribute their time and efforts toward FedEx Delivers Heartbeats by 
assisting the families with registration at the clinics and conversing with 
them while their children wait to be examined. They also help promote the 
program by interviewing the families and writing profile stories for the 
Heartbeat website and newsletter.
•	In Hong Kong and Taiwan, 200 schoolchildren from four primary schools 
have been shown how to lead lifestyles with lower-carbon dioxide 
emissions through the FedEx We Deliver Green! Classroom program, 
developed in conjunction with the Jane Goodall Institute.RAISING THE ROOF
TECHO (Spanish for “roof”) is a nonprofit organization with a presence 
in 19 countries across Latin America and the Caribbean. TECHO’s goal 
is to build transitional shelters for the region’s most marginalized and 
excluded populations. Teams in seven FedEx markets participated: Brazil, 
Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama 
and Venezuela. In addition to the homes it builds, TECHO also works to 
implement social inclusion programs in communities. The intent is to 
empower impoverished citizens to become active players in improving 
their own quality of life and in establishing sustainable communities.
This year was the first time that FedEx collaborated with TECHO, 
and the effort resulted in life-changing experiences for all the team 
members involved — and especially for the families in need, who got 
new homes. 
Yesid Gonzalez, FedEx operations coordinator in Colombia, says,  
“It was intense work building the homes, but extremely rewarding. 
Our whole team was so excited to bring the FedEx Cares spirit to 
the TECHO project. Our volunteers really brought it both physically 
and intellectually at each step of the process, and the result was 
truly memorable and rewarding moments — seeing the faces of the 
families receiving their new homes.”
In all, 32 homes were built for homeless families. This experience 
opened the eyes of many FedEx volunteers, who had never understood 
how fortunate they were. That realization sunk in deeply as they 
listened to families express happiness at simply being able to live 
under a sturdy roof, to walk on a well-made floor, to own a home. 
These results were made possible by the sacrifice and dedication of 
157 FedEx team members. Community & Disaster Relief2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 13AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 
•	2013, Bronze U.S. President’s Volunteer Service Award,  Junior Achievement
•	2013, Best Action To Prevent Accidents And Damage To Health, Brazil,  
Mapfre Foundation
•	2012, Civic 50, #12,  National Conference on Citizenship and Points of Light, 
in partnership with Bloomberg LP
•	2012, Outstanding Medical Reserve Corps National Leadership and 
Partnership Award,  The Office of the U.S. Surgeon General
•	2012, Ueltschi Humanitarian Award,  National Business Aviation Association
•	2012, First Place , Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship Film 
Festival,  Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship
•	2012, Best International Ambassador Award,  Finalist, U.S. Chamber 
Business Civic Leadership
•	2012, Excellence in Education Award,  Asian & Pacific Islander American 
Scholarship Fund
•	2012, Corporate Social Responsibility Award,  American Chamber of 
Commerce in ShanghaiPEOPLE & 
WORKPLACE
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATEPeople & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 2TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION  3  
A P-S-P CULTURE  3
 Team Member Engagement  3
PREPARING FOR A 21ST CENTURY WORKPLACE  4
 Full-Time U.S. Retention Rate  6
DIVERSITY DRIVES INNOVATION  6
 Diversity in U.S. Workforce  6
 Women in the Workforce  7
 Minorities in U.S. Management  7
 Supplier Diversity Spending  7
WORKPLACE BENEFITS  8
WORKPLACE SAFETY  9
 Lost Time Injury Rates  9
FEDEX POLICIES AND GOVERNANCE  11
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  11
All currencies are translated in U.S. dollars.People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 3Team members drive our networks, connecting more than 90% of the world’s 
GDP in 1 to 3 business days. Their ideas create new efficiencies and ways of 
thinking. Our people are the reason we continue to be ranked as one of the 
world’s most admired companies.
 
Our 300,000 team members span geographies, backgrounds and cultures, yet 
we are united by a common goal: to make every FedEx experience outstanding. 
We call this the Purple Promise. It guides our actions and delivers results. We 
see this promise when we sort and deliver 9 million packages a day, when we 
work with an entrepreneur to outline his or her first trade route or when we 
test a new energy-efficient innovation. Our promise also guides us through 
extraordinary times. When Superstorm Sandy hit, team members kept goods and 
supplies flowing through our network even when their own homes were flooded 
or had no power. 
Our continued success depends on our team members’ ability to contribute. 
Their ideas and actions are more important than all of our trucks, planes and 
technology combined. A recent survey sampled team member sentiment, and 
83% of team members feel like they can make a difference, while 86% feel 
a source of pride in what they do. These numbers reflect the strength of our 
people-focused culture and our commitment to empower a workforce that’s as 
diverse as the communities we serve. 
Across the world, we are seeing changes in the makeup of our workforce and the 
needs of our team members. It’s estimated that 1 billion women will enter the 
global workforce in the next decade, bringing significant benefits to businesses 
and economies. As a consequence, the U.S. GDP could increase by 5%, Japan 
by 9%, the United Arab Emirates by 12% and Egypt by 34%. This trend will 
change the faces of both our customers and our team members. Efforts like our 
recent Global Women’s Forum are increasingly important in order to support 
women’s leadership opportunities. Our culture must evolve as we enter new 
markets, ensuring we can make every experience outstanding for everyone we 
serve. We’ll continue to offer a range of educational assistance, developmental 
opportunities, work-life balance and skills-based volunteering programs so that 
people across ranks and functions, full time and part time, can find their own 
unique ways to grow and contribute in a supportive work environment. Above 
all, our people are our future, and we are committed to providing the resources 
needed for them to excel in today’s global market.
A P-S-P CULTURE
People are at the heart of our culture — whether it’s the service we deliver to 
our customers or each other. People are also at the heart of our management 
philosophy. Without the efforts of our 300,000 team members, there would be 
no FedEx. “People-Service-Profit” (P-S-P) is the corporate philosophy that helps 
us deliver on the Purple Promise and is a concise and comprehensive statement 
of the principles that govern every FedEx activity. All programs and policies, at 
every organizational level, must synchronize with this philosophy. All FedEx 
managers are expected to scrupulously follow, as well as communicate to their 
team members, the successful formula inherent in our P-S-P philosophy. Our 
People emphasis produces outstanding Service for customers, which in turn produces the Profit required to fund our future and reward our People. Each 
aspect of P-S-P is integral to the whole and each element — People, Service 
and Profit — is essential for the success of FedEx.
TEAM MEMBER ENGAGEMENT
With most of our team members behind the wheel of a truck, sorting packages 
in a hub or flying a plane across the world, we engage team members on their 
terms, through traditional means and newer social channels. Open dialogue with 
team members can tell us what’s working and what isn’t, and we can act on their 
feedback. Ultimately, our success depends on the ability of our people to deliver; 
knowing that, we take responsibility for helping to develop their talents so they 
can succeed.
We know we’re on the right track when we see positive results. Overall 
participation in our annual surveys last year was almost 92% of our workforce, 
up from 89% the previous year.
Team Member Engagement
During these surveys, people can express themselves anonymously to help 
us understand what’s working and where we need improvement. Employees 
respond to questions about their managers and leadership teams on everything 
from fairness to effectiveness to company compensation and benefit programs. 
In follow-up meetings, managers sit down with their teams to hear employee 
concerns firsthand. Together, the group develops and commits to a plan of action 
for the upcoming year that addresses these concerns. We also incorporate 
suggestions that affect the broader enterprise, like feedback on how to improve 
benefit programs or communication channels between leadership and team 
members. Open Door programs also encourage employees to communicate 
upward and give their opinion or ask questions on workplace issues. 
We are proud to have been named last year to Fortune  magazine’s list of 
the “100 Best Companies to Work For” in the United States. This survey relies 
on employee feedback to provide insight into workplace culture. FedEx has 
made the prestigious list 11 of the past 14 years and was named to the “Best THERE’S ONE REASON FOR OUR SUCCESS 
AS A COMPANY: OUR TEAM MEMBERS. 
People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 4Companies to Work For” Hall of Fame in 2005. For more than 10 years, we have 
also consistently ranked in Fortune ’s “World’s Most Admired Companies” and 
“America’s Most Admired Companies” lists.
Quality Driven Management (QDM) is another way we engage the expertise 
of our global workforce. Team members worldwide have access to a 
comprehensive set of QDM tools that helps them examine the way we do 
business and figure out how to make it better — from day-to-day activities of 
workgroups to re-examining the efficiency of routes. Our goal is to improve our 
processes and efficiency, while upholding the service levels customers expect. 
Using a set of principles and a problem-solving model, improvements at FedEx 
go beyond applying a bandage; they get to the root cause. We also award an 
annual QDM Cup that recognizes teams that accomplished significant results. 
The QDM Cup joins a broad recognition program, including our Purple Promise 
and Humanitarian awards, designed to show appreciation for outstanding team 
member performance.Today, we are in the process of developing some larger, collaborative web tools 
to help employees connect and innovate even more easily. Other methods of 
communication and engagement include: From The Chairman,  a semiannual 
communication mailed to all employees at their homes; webcasts, town halls 
and site visits that give team members the opportunity to engage directly with 
company leaders; and informal get-togethers like cookouts at local facilities. 
Intranet sites and an extensive global video network keep team members 
informed and let them see what their global peers have accomplished. 
PREPARING FOR A 21ST  
CENTURY WORKPLACE
First and foremost, we ensure that our employees have the training and 
resources to be able to deliver on the Purple Promise. It starts with a 
comprehensive new-hire orientation and a curriculum of training and educational 
opportunities that includes access to FedEx University, an extensive and free 
library of online courses, and tuition assistance for college courses. 
Some of our newest efforts have led us to unique approaches. Whether it’s 
rethinking the physical layout of a call center or giving our team members a 
chance to volunteer their skills in order to hone them, we are seeking to offer 
new development opportunities to help team members grow in an evolving, 
global workplace. 
One such program is our TechConnect customer service program, REACH (Reps 
Engaged and Connected @ Home). REACH is designed to transition brick-and-
mortar call centers into virtual work-from-home opportunities for our call-center 
agents. The program is saving time and money and improving the quality of life 
for our customer service representatives. About 900 of our FedEx TechConnect 
customer service representatives now work remotely from their homes.
Over the last three years, REACH has already spared the planet 2,800 tons of 
carbon emissions. As we continue to transition customer service reps to work 
remotely from their homes, the savings compound. In fact, every person who 
works from home saves an additional 2,500 lbs. of carbon emissions each 
year. That’s a total savings of 2.25 million lbs. of CO2 emissions per year, or the 
equivalent of planting over 26,000 trees and letting them grow for 10 years.
Another program gives promising employees a chance to enhance their 
leadership and teamwork abilities through international skills-based 
volunteerism. The Global Leadership Corps (GLC) introduces high-performing 
FedEx employees to next-generation ways of doing business: emerging markets, 
virtual and global teams, diverse cultures, working outside the traditional office 
and increased public expectations for sustainable business practices. Over a 
six-month program, teams of participants spend four weeks in a developing 
market working on projects for nongovernmental and/or nonprofit organizations CROWDSOURCING FOR QUALITY: A QDM SUCCESS STORY 
FedEx Express couriers used to make 200,000 regularly scheduled 
pickups across the U.S. every day. But on average, 45,000 of these 
stops resulted in no package pickup. Zero-package stops cost millions 
each year — and prevent us from optimizing our network to offer even 
more service and value to customers. So when the couriers raised their 
concerns about repeatedly going to these nonproductive stops, their 
managers listened. 
A team consisting of employees from Marketing, FedEx Express 
Dispatch and Sales Efficiency got together and started using QDM 
processes to address the extra trips. The team created a pilot to work 
with the Worldwide Sales and Corporate Sales Account Executives to 
identify which locations truly needed regular stops and which could 
be cancelled or modified, always listening to the customer. They 
also highlighted process improvements that allowed FedEx Express 
Dispatch to reach out directly to customers in other business segments 
and discuss ways to optimize pickup schedules. 
The results have been dramatic: The total number of zero-package 
regular stops has dropped by almost 3,000 a day, saving more than 
$2.9 million per year. Our trucks now also produce fewer greenhouse 
gas emissions. With Solutions, Sales and FedEx Express all working 
together, great things have happened, literally from the ground up. People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 5REACH: A NEW WAY OF DOING BUSINESS
What began as an experiment to boost employee satisfaction and 
reduce costs turned into a new remote rep program called REACH, 
where 900 FedEx customer service reps, managers and senior 
managers work from home. The program has replaced nine brick-and-
mortar call centers, leading to less energy used, happier employees 
and improved customer satisfaction. To get a team member’s 
perspective, read this interview with Areina Taylor, an international 
customer service representative with FedEx TechConnect, who’s been 
with FedEx for almost 15 years.
Q. What’s it like working from home? 
A. Before REACH, I used to have a two-hour, five-bus commute each 
way from my home in Philadelphia to the call center in Horsham, Pa. 
At the time, I had two school-age children, so balancing my commute 
with being a parent took a toll. Now, my workday is so much more 
manageable. I take better care of myself, my family, and I’ve lost 
weight! I’m home when my son comes home from school. I just 
couldn’t make all this happen before.
Q. Have you noticed a difference in how you can serve 
customers in a home environment vs. a call center? 
A. I feel more relaxed and less stressed out now. I can laugh and 
joke with customers to help build rapport and deliver an exceptional 
customer service experience. Yesterday, I spoke with a customer  
who was also working from a home office, and I could better relate  
to his situation. 
Q. How do you stay connected with your manager and co-workers?
A. This can be a challenge. Before REACH, I would turn around and 
ask co-workers questions. We now use IM. It’s slower, but I’m so much 
more relaxed so it’s not a big issue. My workgroup also meets once or 
twice a year for social gatherings like our annual Christmas party.
Q. What other ways do you think this program helps? 
A. I’m not sure about companywide, but I do know I don’t have to pay 
to commute anymore! To buy lunch and spend money on expensive 
work clothes, makeup, etc. During Superstorm Sandy I was still able to 
work even though the buses weren’t running. Also, I can work overtime 
if I want. It’s so much easier when I don’t have a two-hour commute. to enhance their leadership skills while contributing to the community. GLC 
volunteers work on projects selected because of their alignment with FedEx 
corporate social responsibility initiatives. So far, we have sent teams to Salvador, 
Brazil, and Bangalore, India, to work in areas such as promoting the rapid 
adoption of sustainable energy technologies and developing a self-sufficient 
business model to provide free eye care to the rural poor. 
In FY12, the average number of training hours tracked for FedEx employees was 
12, with management employees at FedEx companies receiving an average of 15 
hours of training and nonmanagement employees receiving an average of nine 
hours during the same time frame. These averages do not include our FedEx 
Office operating company, for which we do not have FY12 training data. We plan 
to include all FedEx operating companies in next year’s report. We are currently 
implementing a comprehensive enterprisewide online employee-training 
platform, the FedEx Learning Center, which we expect will improve our ability to 
track and report employee training data in future reports.
PROMOTING FROM WITHIN
At FedEx, we are more likely to look inside our walls at our internal talent before 
recruiting externally. Open jobs are posted so that team members can apply to 
move up in the ranks or transfer from one location to another. Once any team 
member advances to management, we offer specific training to help prepare him 
or her to lead. We also offer advanced training as managers rise through the ranks.
Representatives from each of the FedEx operating companies form the Executive 
Development Team to design, develop and support programs for FedEx leaders. 
These programs include succession planning, preparing executives for new roles 
and intensive development programs for high-potential executives, plus ad hoc 
learning and development opportunities available through periodic classes  
and online. 
Our standard professional development also includes annual performance 
reviews. In FY12, approximately 70% of employees in the U.S. were given 
performance reviews by their supervisors. In the case of management 
employees, these reviews provide a consistent framework for setting objectives, 
identifying leadership competencies and evaluating performance, which in turn 
helps employees be successful and focus on work that adds value for customers. 
In some cases, a supervisor may conduct performance reviews for a particular 
employee more frequently, whenever considered appropriate. Note that we do 
not track performance review rates by gender. People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 6We believe the long tenure of our team members and excellent industry 
reputation are both strong indicators that our culture is an integral part of our 
corporate success. In fact, more than 80% of the managers at FedEx Express 
have been promoted from within. This past fiscal year, our full-time U.S. 
retention rate was 91.7%, compared to 90.1% in FY11.
Full-Time U.S. Retention Rate
In FY12, 25.3% of full-time and part-time FedEx employees left the company, 
and 27.5% were hired in the same time frame. Those entering and leaving the 
company were comprised of about 75% males and 25% females. We currently 
don’t track employee turnover rates by age group or region.  
DIVERSITY DRIVES INNOVATION
At FedEx, we believe diversity is essential to innovation. The definitions 
of “diversity” and “minority” can shift depending on cultural context, and we 
value the contributions and perspectives of all team members regardless of 
race, gender, culture, religion, age, nationality, veteran status, disability, sexual 
orientation, gender identity or gender expression. In the U.S., 44% of our 
workforce is minority, and, globally, 27% of our employees are women. 
TEAM MEMBER MAKEUPDiversity in U.S. Workforce
Total # Team Members (approx.)  300,000
Employees 280,241
•	Employees – Male: 204,047
•	Employees – Female: 76,194
 
Independent Contracted Workers (approx.)  
20,000
Management Employees 20,467
•	Management Employees – Male: 15,908
•	Management Employees – Female: 4,559
Nonmanagement Employees 259,774
•	Nonmanagement Employees – Male: 188,139
•	Nonmanagement Employees – Female: 71,635
Total Permanent Employees by Employment Type
Total Full-time (U.S.): 138,833
•	Full-time – Male: 101,099
•	Full-time – Female: 37,734
Total Part-time (U.S.): 89,651
•	Part-time – Male: 64,637
•	Part-time – Female: 25,014(U.S. Workforce Only)Primarily employees of independent contractors performing services 
for FedEx Ground and FedEx Custom Critical
VOLUNTARY BUYOUT PROGRAM
In October 2012, FedEx Corp. announced a plan to target  
$1.7 billion in profit improvement by the end of FY16. The plan 
consisted of several components, including a voluntary buyout 
program. In February 2013, employees eligible for the voluntary 
buyout were notified and provided with information and tools to 
aid in considering their offer. The program, which included both 
compensation and a healthcare reimbursement account, aimed to 
recognize the significant contributions of our employees and balance 
those against the changing business environment. People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 7DIVERSITY IN LEADERSHIP 
As women across the world play an increasing role in nontraditional industries, 
including ours, we will continue to foster opportunities for more women to work 
and lead. In FY12, women comprised 22% of our global management ranks, and, 
in the U.S., over 28% of managers were minorities. 
We are currently creating more training and engagement programs with a focus 
on gender equality, recognizing this is an issue that cuts across cultures and 
affects more than half the world’s population.
FedEx understands that developing talent among women at the company 
is critical to our support of diverse leadership throughout all of our global 
operations. FedEx recently presented its first Global Women’s Forum for FedEx 
women leaders. More than 100 women in top FedEx leadership roles attended 
the two-day Executive Roundtable, developed in collaboration with the 
International Women’s Forum. The event provided attendees with an opportunity 
to grow and develop both in their business and personal lives. With the help 
of experts from the worlds of business, government, science and academia, 
the discussions covered many global business trends, from the challenge of 
recruiting talent to the balance between personal and work life. 
Women in the Workforce
Training in diversity and inclusion is delivered to employees and management 
alike. Recruiting at diverse colleges and universities and among minority- and 
women-centered organizations and agencies ensures that FedEx continues to be 
as diverse as the world we serve. In addition, we disclose the ethnic and gender 
diversity of our Board of Directors on page 24 ( Diversity  section) of our  
FY12 Proxy Statement . 
Minorities in U.S. Management
Some of our other strategic diversity initiatives include Diversity Councils, which 
work to ensure greater awareness and positive perception of our diversity 
commitment. We also support multicultural programs within the company and 
the communities we serve. The Diversity Councils meet regularly to discuss 
strategy and oversee diversity efforts within the FedEx operating companies. For 
more information on our support for community-based diversity organizations, 
see our Community & Disaster Relief  section of this report. 
Since its inception in 1992, the FedEx Supplier Diversity program has provided 
avenues for suppliers to become part of the FedEx supply chain. We are 
committed to helping suppliers compete for FedEx business fairly and regularly. 
We contract directly with minority-owned, women-owned and small businesses 
that are competitive in quality, service and cost.
Supplier Diversity Spending
EMBRACING NEW TEAMS AND NEW CULTURES
We can gain a lot from the market expertise, talent and customer relationships 
of the companies we acquire. Over the past few years, FedEx has acquired 
companies in India and Mexico, followed by acquisitions in Poland, France and 
Brazil. We’ve instituted a global integration planning and execution process, 
named ACQUIRE, to help us integrate cultures in a way that respects employees 
and their talent. We take a people-centered approach by forming teams with 
joint representatives from FedEx and the acquired companies. 
EMERGING LEADERS IN EMERGING MARKETS
Despite decades of progress, it’s still tough for women to reach the 
executive ranks of large companies. They also face obstacles when 
they attempt to start their own businesses. But around the world, 
FedEx works to empower women — either to rise within our own 
ranks or to become entrepreneurs. Either way, we know it’s smart 
business. By empowering women, we broaden both the talent pool 
and the list of potential customers. Meet some of the women who 
lead FedEx’s efforts to empower others.People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 8FEDEX AND MULTIPACK
FedEx Express Mexico completed the acquisition of Servicios 
Nacionales Mupa, S.A. de C.V. (MultiPack) in July 2011. Carolina Chong, 
managing director for Human Resources at FedEx Express Mexico, and 
her team developed and implemented a Cultural Integration Plan to 
educate MultiPack employees on FedEx values, operating processes 
and systems, while demonstrating respect for the legacy of success 
that MultiPack had developed over its years of operation.
In addition to town halls and integration meetings, the newly formed 
teams actively participated in FedEx Cares volunteer team projects 
that enabled them to give back to their local communities. This was 
particularly encouraging for MultiPack employees who didn’t have 
access to such programs before the acquisition.
In the first year, more than 1,000 FedEx Express and MultiPack team 
members planted more than 6,000 trees across Mexico City and 
Guadalajara. The program also included an adopt-a-tree program for 
team members’ families, plus training at local stations on recycling, 
global warming and water usage.Each integration is kicked off in the local market, and meetings are conducted 
primarily in the local language, enabling active participation by all attendees. 
The integration teams use online collaboration tools and a comprehensive 
project management discipline to bring greater value. 
WORKPLACE BENEFITS
FedEx believes that engaging employees in the management of both their health 
and their future financial security is beneficial both to the employees and the 
company. We make it a priority to identify and offer the best tools for this to our 
employees. We offer a comprehensive and competitive benefits package to team 
members, including health, vision, dental and life insurance, as well as a 401(k) 
and employee stock purchase options. Most of the FedEx operating companies 
also offer a cash balance pension plan. These benefits apply to at least 80% 
of the workforce at FedEx, which is primarily based in the U.S. Because our 
company comprises several different operating companies, each with its own 
distinct structure and employee makeup, different benefits apply to different 
operating companies.
Similar to other multinational corporations, we tailor our benefits packages for 
the specific countries where our team members live. This allows us to account 
for different cultural norms and practices regarding employee compensation and benefits in the various global regions where we operate. Among the benefits 
we offer to employees in various regions are supplemental healthcare insurance, 
death/disability insurance, retirement savings and tuition assistance. Benefits 
are provided in accordance with local law and general practice in that market.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
We offer retirement benefits, including a 401(k) savings plan with matching 
company funds, to eligible U.S.-based employees. Most operating companies 
also offer a 100% company-funded cash balance pension plan. Both of these 
benefits are portable, allowing employees to focus on saving for retirement 
throughout their career, whether it is at FedEx or elsewhere. The company also 
provides several programs to assist employees in planning for their retirement 
at every stage of their career, including calculators for determining appropriate 
levels of contributions over time to reach a desired retirement income.
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
Although the cost of healthcare continues to rise, FedEx continues to pay the 
majority of the cost of healthcare for most U.S.-based employees and their 
dependents. The healthcare plan offers a Health Information Line, which 
provides 24-hour-a-day access to a medical professional who can direct any 
employee with urgent healthcare issues to the nearest provider or offer self-care 
tips to use until the employee can see their own doctor.
We emphasize health and wellness through several programs designed to 
make team members more aware of the importance of good health. Lifestyle 
Management Programs, such as Tobacco Cessation, Stress Management and 
Weight Management, are available at no cost to the employee. FedEx healthcare 
providers have a Personal Health Team fully dedicated to FedEx and will provide 
a Healthcare Advocate who is a highly trained health professional, such as a 
registered nurse, nutritionist or other clinician. Another tool, Medical Decision 
Support, offers access to healthcare professionals who are experts in providing 
highly personalized information. These experts will research a medical diagnosis 
or health topic to provide answers and resources to employees. Employees 
enrolled in a FedEx Medical Plan have access to their online Personal Health 
Statement, which shows recent claims activity, expenses and prescriptions to 
help employees track and understand the cost of healthcare for their families. 
Employees can also set up alerts and messages, learn about potential saving 
opportunities and find links to health education.
We are committed to the health and well-being of our employees and their 
family members. We provide educational information regarding illnesses and 
diseases whenever possible and continuously evaluate our role in both health 
education and care. As an example, we have established a corporate-level team 
that — through close contact with leading health organizations and medical 
experts — monitors acute outbreaks of infectious diseases around the world. 
The team is responsible for developing and updating our pandemic contingency People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 9plans. These plans provide for, among other things, regular communication 
of the latest medical advice to our workforce and operational adjustments to 
ensure continuing high levels of service to our customers when faced with such 
events. FedEx is also an active supporter of community-based organizations that 
provide education and support services on a variety of public healthcare issues 
such as child and maternal mortality, blindness and HIV/AIDS, and through 
our support for disaster relief initiatives such as Direct Relief’s Med-Pack and 
Heart to Heart’s Ready Relief Box programs. For more information on how FedEx 
supports these healthcare-related causes globally, please see the Community & 
Disaster Relief  section of this report. 
The FedEx Employee Assistance Program is available to most employees and 
their eligible dependents and household members. The program includes 
unlimited telephone consultation, as well as online tools and resources to assist 
in problem-solving, parental support, child rearing, relationship building, crisis 
intervention, community resources and more through a network of psychologists, 
social workers and licensed master-level therapists. 
The FedEx WorkLife Balance Program is a resource and referral program 
available to employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to help manage daily 
responsibilities and life events, thus reducing stress and saving valuable time. 
An employee may call for a personalized request or log on to the customized 
website. There is a wide variety of topical information such as childcare and 
parenting, education, financial concerns, health and wellness, adult care and 
aging, daily life and a discount center.
WORKPLACE SAFETY 
Each business day, FedEx delivers more than 9 million packages to customers 
in more than 220 countries and territories. Managing a global network of 
people, facilities, trucks, aircraft and technology demands that safety and health 
principles be incorporated into all aspects of our business. We actively promote 
and support a culture of health and safety for the benefit of our employees, 
contractors, stakeholders and the public. 
SAFETY PROGRAMS
A culture of safety, which we have formalized through our Safety Above All 
program, is integral to everything we do. Our Chairman and CEO, Frederick 
W. Smith, says, “Building and maintaining an excellent safety record is key to 
our People-Service-Profit philosophy. Just as we seek to continuously improve 
the service we provide our customers, we must also continuously improve the 
practices that can make our workplace even safer for our team members.” 
Each major operating company sets workplace safety policies and implements 
the Safety Above All philosophy through policies and programs that are relevant 
to their specific operations. And each company’s Safety department conducts 
regular internal audits to ensure that all team members are following the policies. 
 FedEx Express has driven a nearly 56% reduction in vehicle accident rates and 
nearly 68% reduction in employee injury rates over the past 17 years. FedEx 
Express policies and best practices are outlined in The Safety Manual, which 
is a comprehensive policy and procedure manual that formalizes the guidelines 
of a safety program designed to reduce injury and illness. It covers a variety of 
safety-related topics including aircraft-operations ramp safety, vehicle safety, 
package handling, lifting, sorting and the handling of hazardous or flammable 
materials. FedEx Ground’s safety policies also cover a variety of issues, including 
hazardous-materials handling, vehicle safety and preparedness for emergency 
situations such as severe weather, wildfires and earthquakes. FedEx Freight’s 
main focus is on long-haul vehicle driver safety and dock loading and unloading 
(e.g., hazardous-materials handling). 
 We are publicly reporting our workplace safety data metrics. We calculate our 
Lost Time Injury Rate (per 100 employees) metric by dividing the total number 
of Lost Time Injury cases by the total number of hours worked by all employees 
multiplied by 200,000 (derived from 50 working weeks @ 40 hours per 100 
employees). The term “Lost Time Injury case” means a nonfatal, traumatic injury 
that causes any loss of time from work beyond the day or shift it occurred, or a 
nonfatal, nontraumatic illness/disease that causes disability at any time. We 
are pleased to report that the FY12 rate of 3.72 represents a 6.5% improvement 
over FY10, signifying the success of our Safety Above All program across our 
operating companies.
In addition, we’re also reporting our global Preventable Recordable Vehicle 
Accident Rates (per 1 million miles driven by FedEx vehicles). In FY12, the rate 
was 0.31, which represents an 11% improvement over the FY10 rate of 0.35. We 
base our definition of “Recordable” on the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) 
definition, which means a preventable occurrence involving a commercial motor 
vehicle operating on a highway in interstate or intrastate commerce that results 
in at least one of the following: a bodily injury to a person who, as a result of 
the injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the 
accident; one or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage as a result of 
the accident, requiring the motor vehicle(s) to be transported away from the 
scene by a tow truck or other motor vehicle; or a fatality.
Lost Time Injury Rates
1 Does not include FedEx Freight in Canada
2 Does not include FedEx Express EMEAGlobal Data Metrics FY10 FY11 FY12
Lost Time Injury Rates 3.9713.75 3.72
Preventable Recordable Vehicle Accident Rates 0.3520.36 0.31People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 10One area of particular priority for FedEx operating companies is driver safety. An 
accident-free driving record and safe driving practices aren’t just company goals 
for FedEx drivers, they’re also sport — and a challenge from FedEx Chairman 
and CEO Frederick W. Smith, who conceived the Chairman’s Challenge, a call to 
drivers from all operating companies to represent FedEx in the annual American 
Trucking Associations’ National Truck Driving Championships (NTDC), the “Super 
Bowl of Safety,” which was held in Minneapolis in 2012.
CHAIRMAN’S CHALLENGE
Conceived by FedEx Chairman and CEO Frederick W. Smith, the 
Chairman’s Challenge is a call to hundreds of drivers from all 
FedEx operating companies to represent FedEx in the annual 
American Trucking Associations’ NTDC. This challenge reinforces 
our commitment to driver safety for all our drivers, independent 
contractors and couriers, as well as the motoring public. Drivers 
who have been accident-free for one year can participate in the 
championships that begin at the state level and then progress to 
the NTDC.
There were many successful FedEx participants at the 2012 NTDC 
in Minneapolis, and Don Logan from FedEx Freight was named the 
NTDC Grand Champion. Logan’s driving skills and knowledge of 
transportation and truck safety information topped those of 425 other 
professional drivers from all across the United States in the annual 
“Super Bowl of Safety.” 
On the way to his title, Logan logged 25 years as a professional truck 
driver, with more than 2.1 million miles behind the wheel. He began 
competing in state truck driving championships in 2006, and this year 
he made his sixth trip to the NTDC. This is the third win for Logan at 
the national level, placing first in the three-axle class in 2009 and in 
the twins class in 2010. Logan also holds six Kansas state titles.
With 24 National Champions, two National Grand Champions and 
four Rookie of the Year titles in the past seven years, Team FedEx has 
established a reputation for excellence. Since the first year of the 
Challenge in 2003, thousands of FedEx drivers and contractors have 
participated in state competitions, with close to a thousand FedEx 
state champions going on to compete at the NTDC. We recorded four workplace fatalities in FY12 as a result of an occupational 
injury or disease sustained or contracted while in our employ. This does not 
include FedEx Express operations outside the U.S. — we plan to include those 
regions in future reporting.
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
FedEx has zero tolerance for workplace violence and has established clear 
standards of behavior in our policies. Conflicts must always be resolved in a 
peaceful, professional and respectful manner. The FedEx Workplace Violence 
Prevention Program helps to provide team members and vendors with a safe and 
secure work environment. Our mission is to increase awareness of developing 
situations and other indicators of workplace violence. Unauthorized firearms or 
weapons are strictly prohibited on company-leased or -owned property and in 
buildings, aircraft or vehicles. Possession of firearms or weapons on company 
property may be grounds for immediate dismissal.
All FedEx employees are responsible for reporting potential or actual situations 
of workplace violence either through a special web-based reporting system, 
contacting a member of FedEx Management, Security or Human Resources, or 
calling the FedEx Alert Line in their respective countries.
All reported instances of workplace violence are investigated by a Workplace 
Violence Response Team, which is a group established to help maintain a safe 
and secure workplace. The team is made up of members from the following 
areas: Security, Legal, Human Resources, Benefits, Safety, Contract Relations 
and the Employee Assistance Program. When the Response Team receives a 
report of potential workplace violence, they properly investigate and make a 
recommendation of action to be taken. 
 People & Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 11FEDEX POLICIES AND GOVERNANCE
Across the globe, the FedEx name symbolizes great service, reliability 
and integrity. To maintain this reputation, every FedEx team member must 
demonstrate personal responsibility and professional conduct every day.  
The FedEx Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  sets out the general 
principles that guide our team members in upholding high standards of business 
and personal ethics. To ensure all employees are aware of these principles,  
they receive Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training upon joining FedEx  
and on a periodic basis thereafter. This training is delivered in a variety of 
formats including live training or through online modules. Upon contracting  
with FedEx, independent contractors agree to abide by the Code where 
applicable. Additionally, we periodically release communications highlighting 
key principles set forth in the FedEx Code. These communications are designed 
to help our team members remain vigilant regarding these important issues 
and help our employees to deliver on our Purple Promise to make every FedEx 
experience outstanding.
Activities such as fraud, theft, falsification of company documents or records, 
misuse of company assets, possession of firearms and alcohol or drug use on 
company property, and criminal activities, as well as disruptive behavior, are 
prohibited. Any of these activities subject employees to disciplinary action or 
termination of employment. 
The FedEx Code requires our employees and independent contractors to report 
immediately any suspected violation of those standards, and the FedEx Alert 
Line provides one mechanism for doing so. Using the Alert Line, callers are able 
to make anonymous, confidential reports, 24 hours a day, of suspected legal and 
ethical violations within FedEx by making a toll-free phone call, and the FedEx 
Code prohibits retaliation for making such a report. We promote the Code and 
Alert Line to team members through a variety of means, which include various 
operating company communications, as well as framing and hanging large Alert 
Line posters — translated into the appropriate local language — in permanent, 
conspicuous spots at all FedEx locations. 
In the event that we do have to make the tough call to close a facility, we comply 
with all applicable laws of the countries and local areas in which we operate. 
For instance, in the U.S., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification 
(WARN) Act requires most employers with 100 or more employees to provide 
60-calendar-day advance notice of facility closings and mass layoffs of 
employees. Employees entitled to notice under the WARN Act include managers 
and supervisors, and hourly wage and salaried workers. For more information on our FedEx Code of Conduct, our corporate governance 
and operating structure, please visit our Investor Relations site:
•	Board of Directors: http://investors.fedex.com/phoenix.
zhtml?c=73289&p=irol-govboard
•	Corporate Governance: http://investors.fedex.com/phoenix.
zhtml?c=73289&p=irol-govmission
•	FedEx Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: http://investors.fedex.
com/phoenix.zhtml?c=73289&p=irol-govconduct
•	Policy on Political Contributions: http://investors.fedex.com/phoenix.
zhtml?c=73289&p=irol-govpolitical
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
•	2013, 100 Best Companies to Work For , Fortune
•	2012, World’s Best Multinational Workplaces , Great Place to  
Work Institute
•	2012, 50 Best Places to Work,  Glassdoor
•	2012, 40 Best Companies for Diversity,  Black Enterprise
•	2012, Best Places to Work in IT , Computerworld 
•	2012, Best Employers (FedEx Express) in Australia, Canada, United Arab  
Emirates and New Zealand,  Aon Hewitt AssociatesGLOBAL REPORTING  
INITIATIVE INDEX
2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 2GRI Index
1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS INFORMATION REPORTED
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 
(e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance 
of sustainability to the organization and its strategy.See page 3 (“Letter from Chairman and CEO”) of Goals & Progress
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. See page 3 (“Introduction”) of Economics & Access , Environment 
& Efficiency , Community & Disaster Relief , People  
& Workplace
2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE INFORMATION REPORTED
2.1 Name of the organization FedEx Corporation
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. See page 9 (“Description of Business”) of FY12 Annual Report
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including  
main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries,  
and joint ventures.See page 9 (“Description of Business”) of FY12 Annual Report
2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Memphis, Tennessee, USA
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the 
names of countries with either major operations or that are 
specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in  
the report.See http://www.fedex.com/?location=home
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Publicly traded corporation
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,  
and types of customers/beneficiaries).See http://www.fedex.com/?location=home
2.8 Scale of reporting organization. See FY12 Annual Report
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding its size, 
structure, or ownership including: - The location of, or changes in 
operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; 
and - Changes in the share capital structure and other capital 
formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private 
sector organizations).See FY12 Annual Report
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. See page 7 (“Awards and Recognition”) of Economics & Access ; 
See page 18 (“Awards and Recognition”) of Environment & 
Efficiency ; See page 13 (“Awards and Recognition”) of Community 
& Disaster Relief ; See page 11 (“Awards and Recognition”) of 
People & Workplace  
Full =
Partial =2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 3GRI Index
3. REPORT PROFILE INFORMATION REPORTED
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 
provided.FY12: June 1, 2011, to May 31, 2012
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) August 20, 2012 (FY11 GCR)
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. csr@fedex.com  
3.5 Process for defining report content, including: - Determining 
materiality; - Prioritizing topics within the report; and - Identifying 
stakeholders the organization expects to use the report.Report content was developed based on materiality analysis of 
GRI data metrics relative to the industry sectors (Transportation & 
Logistics, Office Supplies/Commercial Printing) in which we operate. 
In addition we report progress on specific topics, such as providing 
access to global markets, our aircraft carbon emissions intensity 
target and our logistical support for disaster relief agencies, which 
we feel are particularly germane to our business operations.
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 
leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). The information in this report applies to FedEx Corporation and all 
operating companies and associated companies globally within the 
reporting period, unless otherwise stated. For more information 
about FedEx Corporation, including operating companies, please go 
to http://about.van.fedex.com/fedex-overview .
Data pertaining to Environmental impacts are for entities and 
subsidiaries for which FedEx exercises operational control. In the 
case of the People & Workplace pillar, all data metrics related to 
workforce turnover, feedback surveys, training, and diversity only 
includes employees of FedEx, including operating companies and 
subsidiaries, and not to independent contractors. As noted in the 
appropriate sections of the report, some data metrics do not cover 
certain global regions.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 
report. We provide explanations where our reported data sets have specific 
limitations in the appropriate sections of the report.
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 
outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly 
affect comparability from period to period and/or between 
organizations. The majority of data metrics disclosed in this report covers all 
subsidiaries, substantially all of which are wholly owned, and 
joint ventures where FedEx (including its operating companies) 
has a controlling interest. Data metrics are included for leased 
facilities and assets (e.g., aircraft, vehicles, etc.) for which FedEx 
has full operational control. We indicate where certain operating 
companies or regions are not covered by particular data metrics in 
the appropriate sections of the report.
In cases where certain data metrics are affected by acquisitions 
and divestments, we will provide additional clarification in the 
appropriate section of the report.2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 4GRI Index
3. REPORT PROFILE (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, 
including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 
applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information 
in the report.Both data measurement techniques and any underlying estimation 
assumptions are documented within the appropriate sections of 
this report. Further explanation is provided where a particular data 
measurement technique does not comply with the GRI Indicator 
Protocol compilation recommendations.
Wherever possible, we use standard-based protocols, e.g., WRI/
WCSBD GHG Accounting Protocol, to develop our data metrics for 
this report.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information 
provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement 
(e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature 
of business measurement methods).Where applicable, we will clarify when certain data metrics have 
been adjusted from prior reports for comparability purposes. 
In cases where our reporting time frames change, e.g., corporate 
spending on suppliers that meet diversity characteristics, we will 
restate prior year data and provide additional clarification.
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 
boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.As this is our first year utilizing the GRI reporting framework, we 
have endeavored to follow the recommended data measurement 
guidelines set forth in version 3.1 of that framework. To that end, 
certain revised data metrics calculation methods, e.g., the reporting 
of GHG emissions as CO2e (as opposed to CO2 emissions only), will 
be explained in the appropriate sections of the report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 
report. See page 2 of “ GRI Index ”
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report 
accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and 
basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the 
relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance 
provider(s). With the exception of our direct aircraft GHG emissions that are 
subject to the European Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme (which 
are externally assured by Ernst & Young), the data metrics disclosed 
in this report have not been externally assured.
4. GOVERNANCE INFORMATION REPORTED
4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees 
under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 
such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. •	See page 11 (“Director Independence”), pages 16 –17 
(“Meetings and Committees of the Board of Directors” for 
info on Committees), and page 24 (“Diversity” for info on 
Board diversity/gender) of FY12 Proxy Statement  
•	See also Corporate Governance section of Investor 
Relations website
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 
also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the 
organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). See page 10 of FY12 Proxy Statement (“Board Leadership 
Structure”) for FedEx position on Frederick W. Smith’s role  
as Chairman and CEO.2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 5GRI Index
4. GOVERNANCE (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 
number and gender of members of the highest governance body 
that are independent and/or non-executive members. See pages 11–12 (“Director Independence”) and page 24 
(“Diversity”) of FY12 Proxy Statement
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 
recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.•	See page 13 (“Communication with Directors”) of FY12 
Proxy Statement  
•	See Article II, Section 5 (“Special Meetings”) of FedEx 
Amended and Restated Bylaws
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 
governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 
departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance 
(including social and environmental performance).See pages 25–62 (“Executive Compensation”) and pages 63–65 
(“Directors’ Compensation”) of FY12 Proxy Statement
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 
conflicts of interest are avoided. •	See pages 14–15 (“Related Person Transaction”) of FY12 
Proxy Statement  
•	See Appendix A (“Policy on Review and Preapproval  
of Related Person Transactions”) and Appendix B 
(“Standards of Director Independence” ) of Corporate 
Governance Guidelines
4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and 
expertise of the members of the highest governance body and 
its committees, including any consideration of gender and other 
indicators of diversity.See pages 13–14 (“Nomination of Director Candidates”) and 
pages 20–24 (“Experience, Qualifications, Attributes & Skills”) 
of FY12 Proxy Statement
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 
conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 
social performance and the status of their implementation. •	FedEx Mission, Strategy, Values   
•	FedEx Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  and related 
policies such as “Whistleblower Policy”  and “Auditor Policy”  
on Corporate Governance site  
•	Environmental Policy Statement  
•	Diversity Mission Statement
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the 
organization’s identification and management of economic, 
environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 
opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally 
agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. •	See page 10 (“Board Risk Oversight” - “Diversity”) of FY12 
Proxy Statement    
•	See pages 19 and 71 (“Risk Factors”) of FY12 Form 10-K
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 
performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, 
and social performance. See pages 9–10 (“Board Leadership Structure”) of FY12  
Proxy Statement2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 6GRI Index
4. GOVERNANCE (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 
principle is addressed by the organization. Our standard management practices consider many factors, 
including potential positive and negative societal impacts, when 
making strategic business decisions. For more information, see 
page 10 (“Board Risk Oversight”) of FY12 Proxy Statement.
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 
or endorses.FedEx adheres to various external environmental standards and 
initiatives including:  
•	World Resources Institute / World Council for Sustainable 
Business Development GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard  
•	ISO 14001 certification for 51 EMEA facilities and FedEx Express 
Environmental Management Systems is based upon elements in 
the ISO 14001 standard  
•	Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
certification for new FedEx Express U.S. facilities  
•	Forest Stewardship Council-certified paper at FedEx Office Print 
and Ship Centers
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations)  
and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the 
organization: - has positions in governance bodies; - participates 
in projects or committees; - provides substantive funding beyond 
routine membership dues; - views membership as strategic.•	FedEx maintains memberships with a variety of trade 
associations, e.g., U.S. Chamber of Commerce Business 
Roundtable, Airlines for America, American Trucking 
Associations, etc., expressly for the purpose of promoting  
and protecting the economic future of FedEx and our stockholders 
and team members.  
•	FedEx also maintains membership in Environmental-focused 
organizations such as the Lindbergh Foundation’s Aviation Green 
Alliance (founding member), Keystone Center National Energy 
Board and the Global Environmental Management Initiative 
(GEMI). FedEx also participates in the U.S. EPA SmartWay 
Partnership and U.S. Department of Energy National Clean  
Fleets Partnership.  
•	FedEx is also a participating member of the Committee 
Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy and the Boston College 
Center for Corporate Citizenship. For information on humanitarian 
and community-based organizations that FedEx supports, please 
see the Community & Disaster Relief  section of this report. 2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 7GRI Index
4. GOVERNANCE (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. •	At FedEx, we actively engage with a variety of internal and 
external stakeholders across all of our economic, social, and 
environmental impact areas. FedEx Corporation serves the 
investment community through an award-winning Investor 
Relations team and website, and investors can contact the IR 
department through an exclusive email address (ir@fedex.com) . 
See page 13 (“Communications with Directors”) of FY12  
Proxy Statement.  
•	On environmental issues, we actively work with government 
agencies, NGOs, manufacturers, suppliers, and other fleet 
operators to introduce fuel-efficient and low-carbon alternative 
fuel technologies and to promote the transformation of 
transportation through our advocacy for electrification. For more 
information, see the Environment & Efficiency  section of  
this report.  
•	FedEx actively supports the communities we serve through 
strategic investment of our resources, our networks, and 
our people’s time. Through our Community & Disaster Relief 
programs, we focus our investments within three core focus 
areas for maximum impact:  1. Disaster Readiness, Relief and 
Recovery, 2. Pedestrian and Road Safety, and 3. Environmental 
Sustainability. For more information, please see the Community  
& Disaster Relief  section of this report.  
•	Similarly, for our team members, we have an Open Door Policy 
whereby each operating company encourages both formal and 
informal dialogue. Although specific feedback systems take 
different forms depending on the operating company, team 
members everywhere can provide honest feedback without fear 
of retribution. For information on how we engage with our team 
members, see the People & Workplace  section of this report.
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom  
to engage.  See 4.14
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 
of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Also please 
indicate the principles formulated at corporate level that guide your 
company’s stakeholder engagement at site level. Please  
attach/provide supporting documents or indicate website.   See 4.14
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 
engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 
topics and concerns, including through its reporting.    See 4.142012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 8GRI Index
ECONOMIC INFORMATION REPORTED
EC DMA Economic: Disclosure on Management Approach     See pages 9–37 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis”)  
of FY12 Annual Report ; See page 3 (“Introduction”) of Economics 
& Access
EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 
revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and 
other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to 
capital providers and governments. See pages 66–71 (“Note 20: Condensed Consolidating Financial 
Statements”) of FY12 Annual Report ; See page 3 (“Charitable 
Giving”) of Community & Disaster Relief
EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 
organization’s activities due to climate change. See pages 34–37 (“Risk Factors”) of FY12 Annual Report ; 
See page 3 (“Introduction”) of Environment & Efficiency
EC 3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations.  See page 8 (“Workplace Benefits”) of People & Workplace ; 
See pages 28–30 (“Retirement Plans”) of FY12 Annual Report
EC 4 Significant financial assistance received from government. FedEx does not receive any significant financial assistance from 
governmental entities.
EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 
provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or  
pro bono engagement.See Community & Disaster  Relief  and page 4 (“Preparing for a 
21st Century Workplace”) of People & Workplace
EC 9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 
impacts, including the extent of impacts.See Economics & Access
ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION REPORTED
EN DMA Environmental: Disclosure on Management Approach See page 4 (“ Sustainability Strategy and Goals ”) and page 5 
(“EarthSmart ”) of Environment & Efficiency
EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume. See Indicator Protocol for 
guidance on calculation.See page 15 (“Paper and Packaging Materials”) of Environment  
& Efficiency
EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. See page 15 (“Paper and Packaging Materials”) of Environment  
& Efficiency
EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. See page 6 (“Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption”) of 
Environment & Efficiency
EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. See page 6 (“Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption”) of 
Environment & Efficiency
EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. See page 7 (“ Greening our Fleet ”) and page 11 (“ Greening our 
Facilities ”) of Environment & Efficiency
EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and  
reductions achieved.See page 7 (“Greening our Fleet”) in Environment & Efficiency
EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent 
to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas.See page 16 (“Biodiversity and Conservation”) of Environment  
& Efficiency2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 9GRI Index
ENVIRONMENTAL (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
EN 12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and 
services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas.See page 16 (“Biodiversity and Conservation”) of Environment 
& Efficiency  and page 7 (“Environmental Sustainability”) of 
Community & Disaster Relief
EN 13 Habitats protected or restored. See page 16 (“Biodiversity and Conservation”) of Environment 
& Efficiency  and page 7 (“Environmental Sustainability”) of 
Community & Disaster Relief
EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. See page 6 (“Greenhouse Gas Emissions”) of Environment  
& Efficiency
EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. See page 6 (“Greenhouse Gas Emissions”) of Environment  
& Efficiency
EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and  
reductions achieved.See page 7 (“ Greening our Fleet ”), page 11 (“ Greening our 
Facilities ”) and page 19 (“ FedEx Environmental Sustainability 
Initiatives ”) of Environment & Efficiency
EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. See page 12 (“Waste and Recycling”) of Environment & Efficiency
EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills. See page 18 (“Significant Spills and Penalties”) of Environment  
& Efficiency
EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 
services, and extent of impact mitigation.See page 7 (“ Greening our Fleet ”), page 11 (“ Greening our 
Facilities ”), page 15 (“ Paper and Packaging Materials ”) and 
page 17 (“ Environmental Management Programs and Systems ”) 
of Environment & Efficiency
EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-
monetary sanctions/convictions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations. See page 18 (“Significant Spills and Penalties”) of Environment  
& Efficiency
LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK INFORMATION REPORTED
LA DMA Labor Practices and Decent Work: Disclosure on  
Management ApproachSee page 2 (“About this Report”) in Goals & Progress  and page 3 
(“A P-S-P Culture”) of People & Workplace
LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and 
region, broken down by gender.See page 6 (“Team Member Makeup”) of People & Workplace
LA 2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee 
turnover by age group, gender, and region.See page 5 (“Promoting from Within”) of People & Workplace  
LA 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations  
of operations. See page 8 (“Workplace Benefits”) of  People & Workplace
LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational 
changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements.See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 10GRI Index
LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 
and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and  
by gender. See page 9 (“Workplace Safety”) of People & Workplace
LA 8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control 
programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 
community members regarding serious diseases.See page 8 (“Health and Wellness”) of People & Workplace
LA 10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by 
employee category.See page 5 (“Promoting from Within”) of People & Workplace
LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 
the continued employability of employees and assist them in 
managing career endings.See page 5 (“Promoting from Within”) of People & Workplace
LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews, by gender. See page 5 (“Promoting from Within”) of People & Workplace
LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 
per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 
group membership, and other indicators of diversity.See page 6 (“Diversity Drives Innovation”) of People & Workplace
HUMAN RIGHTS INFORMATION REPORTED
HR DMA Human Rights: Disclosure on Management Approach See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements 
and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights 
concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening.See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business 
partners that have undergone human rights screening, and  
actions taken. See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 
concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 
including the percentage of employees trained.See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right  
to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may 
be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support  
these rights. See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant 
risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to 
the effective abolition of child labor. See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace2012 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP GOALS & PROGRESS UPDATE  | 11GRI Index
HUMAN RIGHTS (continued) INFORMATION REPORTED
HR 7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having  
significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 
measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced  
or compulsory labor.See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of  People  
& Workplace
HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s 
policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 
relevant to operations. See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 
indigenous people and actions taken.See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject 
to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
HR 11 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms (number of grievances 
related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanisms)See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
SOCIETY INFORMATION REPORTED
SO DMA Society: Disclosure on Management Approach See page 3 (“Introduction”) of Community & Disaster Relief
SO 1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and development programs.See Community & Disaster Relief
SO 3 Anti-Corruption Training (percentage of employees trained in 
organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures)See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
SO 4 Corruption Response (actions taken in response to incidents  
of corruption)See page 11 (“FedEx Policies and Governance”) of People  
& Workplace
SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 
development and lobbying.http://investors.fedex.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=73289&p=irol-
govpolitical 
SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 
politicians, and related institutions by country.http://investors.fedex.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=73289&p=irol-
govpolitical 
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION REPORTED
PR DMA Product Responsibility: Disclosure on Management Approach We adhere to all federal, state and local laws related to advertising, 
promotions and sponsorships.
PR 6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 
related to marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion, and sponsorship.We adhere to all federal, state and local laws related to advertising, 
promotions and sponsorships.