Multiplying
Opportunities
2020 Global Citizenship Report
sustainability.fedex.com2 2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 2
 Multiplying Opportunities  
Through Innovation
FedEx connects the global economy through innovative technologies, 
pioneering approaches, and customer-focused solutions. Whether 
we are multiplying growth for our customers and our business, 
multiplying the potential of our people, or multiplying efficiencies for 
the environment, we use innovation to create value and opportunities 
across the world.
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix3 2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 3Contents
About this Report
Our 12th annual Global Citizenship Report  
(the “Report”) covers FedEx corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) strategies, goals, programs,  
and progress. Unless otherwise noted, data covers 
each of our operating companies and all geographies 
in our 2019 fiscal year, which ended May 31, 2019. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards  
Core option, and contains disclosures from  
the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards  
(as well as reference tables for the Task Force  
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board),  
which are listed in the Reporting Framework Index .
Key performance highlights are included in the 
relevant report chapter, while detailed performance 
data, including our year-over-year performance,  
is included in the Data Appendix . Scope 1 & 2 
GHG emissions data was externally verified by 
Cventure LLC .Our CSR Strategy 4
Economy  27
People  41
Environment  60
Data Appendix 76
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix4 2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 4
Our CSR Strategy
Multiplying Good
With a global reach and purpose-driven mission,  
we connect the world responsibly and resourcefully.  
At the core of our business, we enable economic growth 
for customers through access to markets and innovation, 
link businesses through a diverse portfolio of products 
and services, and create opportunities for people in more 
than 220 countries and territories.
40%
Our sustainability efforts have contributed to an 
approximately 40% reduction in CO 2 emissions  
intensity across the enterprise from FY09 to FY19,  
a period in which revenue grew by 96%.
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix55
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Chairman’s Letter 
Multiplying Opportunities 
Through Innovation
As we release this report, the world  
is grappling with the novel Coronavirus 
COVID-19 pandemic. During these 
unprecedented times, FedEx is one  
of the only companies in the world  
with the networks and capabilities  
to keep commerce and aid moving.
With the health and safety of our team 
members as our top priority, FedEx is on  
the front lines of providing relief, building 
upon decades of experience in dealing with 
natural disasters and medical challenges.
This experience and our company values 
will continue to make FedEx absolutely 
essential to providing support on a  
global scale. 
This is critical because the world is 
depending on us now more than ever.  
As I said in my recent From the Chairman 
and CEO  message, it’s who we are and 
what we do.
Please take a moment and visit here  for the 
latest on how FedEx is responding to the 
outbreak, with a focus on Safety Above All. 
As you’ll see in the following report, we’re 
committed to putting our CSR strategy to 
work for the benefit of the global economy, 
our people, and the environment — and 
we’ll carry that commitment through  
as the world responds to and recovers  
from this pandemic. Multiplying Opportunities  
for the Economy, Our People  
and the Environment
Economy: Multiplying Growth  
for Our Business and Society
FedEx supports the ingenuity of business 
owners and powers the economy in a 
number of ways.
We fuel the explosive growth of 
e-commerce.  As we maintain a 
market-leading portfolio for e-commerce 
— the fastest growing segment of our 
business — we do so with a sharp focus  
on customer needs and the environment. 
For example, Roxo™, the FedEx SameDay 
Bot™ holds promise for deliveries in 
congested or difficult delivery locations  
and is all electric — using only batteries  
that produce zero localized emissions. 
Similarly, in 2019, through our collaboration 
with Wing, we marked the first scheduled 
e-commerce delivery via drone in the  
U.S. and did so with zero emissions.
Frederick W. Smith
Chairman and CEO 66
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
We support small and diverse business.  
We’ve expanded our Small Business  
Grant Contest — which provides a boost  
to deserving entrepreneurs through  
grants, prizes and FedEx Office services  
— to 10 countries. And we take pride in  
the positive outcomes generated by the 
global businesses we support. As just  
one example, through the sale of its coffee 
and chocolate products, Moka Origins,  
one of our 2019 winners, provides good 
wages to farmers in rural Africa. 
It is important to remember that our CSR 
strategy isn’t independent of our business 
plan to innovate and drive profitable growth.  
As we anticipate customer needs on  
the horizon, we do so with a keen eye  
on our mission to connect the world 
responsibly and resourcefully.
People: Multiplying Potential 
Continued investments in our people are 
central to our success. And our first priority  
is “Safety Above All.” That goes for  
our operations on the roads, in the air,  
in our facilities, and in our communities.  
We source the most up-to-date, 
sophisticated safety technology for our 
vehicle fleet. Ninety-eight percent of  
FedEx Freight tractors and box trucks  
now include roll stability, forward collision 
mitigation systems, and lane departure 
technology. And FedEx Express, Freight, 
and Ground use video event data recorder, 
or VEDR, technology to improve safety  
for our drivers and others on the road. We’re also investing in our team members’ 
futures through extensive education and 
training. Last fiscal year, team members  
on average participated in 18 more hours of 
training than the previous year, and FedEx 
provided $15.3 million in tuition assistance 
to help employees further their education. 
Environment: Multiplying Efficiencies
With regard to our physical assets, we’re 
using our Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize 
sustainability approach in four key areas: 
aircraft efficiency, vehicle efficiency, 
sustainable facilities, and sustainable 
materials and recycling. 
As one illustration of the power of  
this strategy, last fiscal year alone,  
we avoided more than 3 million metric  
tons of CO2e emissions as a result of  
our enterprise-wide fuel and energy  
saving initiatives. That’s equivalent  
to the carbon sequestered — or offset  
— by more than 4 million acres of U.S. 
forests in one year.FedEx Cares:
These are only a few remarkable examples 
of how FedEx has been working to benefit 
the economy, people and the environment.
We’re also refocusing our robust giving and 
volunteering platform, FedEx Cares. Moving 
forward, the three FedEx Cares pillars 
are: Global Entrepreneurship, Sustainable 
Logistics, and Delivering for Good. As you’ll 
see on page 10, these FedEx Cares pillars 
fit perfectly into our overall CSR strategy. 
This new FedEx Cares focus will enable  
us to zero in where our company can  
add the most unique value. And the role  
we play — who we are and what we do  
— has never been more important. 
 
Frederick W. Smith 
Chairman and CEO77
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
3.1m
metric tons of CO2e emissions avoided 
through fuel- and energy-saving initiativesWe gave
$62.4m
in corporate charitable 
contributions$15.3m 23m 
kWh renewable  
energy generatedWhat We Achieved in FY19
Multiplying opportunities for our people,  
our business, and our shared environment
in tuition assistance  
to employees
in goods and services procured 
from diverse and small-business 
suppliers in the U.S.$12.3b  
40%
decrease in CO2 emissions  
intensity (on a revenue basis)  
since FY09Announced fleet 
expansion with
 1 ,000
Chanje electric  
delivery vehicles88
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
FedEx Global Network
Liège
SingaporeAnchorage
Indianapolis
Fort Worth
MemphisOakland
MiamiNewarkParisStansted
Mexico CityCologne
Dubai
GuangzhouOsakaMississauga
Major Express Hub LocationsAir Routes>220
COUNTRIES AND 
TERRITORIES SERVED >5,000
OPERATING FACILITIES >15M
SHIPMENTS SORTED 
AND PROCESSED EACH 
BUSINESS DAY>650
AIRPORTS SERVED679
AIRCRAFT>180,000 
MOTORIZED VEHICLES 99
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
CSR Approach and Implementation 
Similarly, our corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) programs emphasize long-term 
performance that creates lasting, positive 
value for our business and society. Our 
governance, operations, culture, and CSR 
priorities are closely aligned, as reflected  
in the important role played by the  
FedEx Board of Directors’ Nominating  
& Governance Committee, which has 
oversight responsibility for our CSR strategy 
and programs, and the Compensation 
Committee, which reviews and discusses 
with management our key human capital 
management strategies and programs.  
The Nominating & Governance Committee 
receives updates at least annually from our 
Chief Sustainability Officer, and provides 
feedback to inform future activities. CSR is at the heart of our business and 
central to the connections we make.  
Key elements of our CSR strategy include 
environmental efficiency innovations,  
a sustainable supply chain, a diverse and 
inclusive workplace, and the robust giving 
and volunteering platform known as FedEx 
Cares. We have aligned our CSR platform 
with our company’s mission and values,  
and embedded it into our systems and our 
culture. We conduct regular CSR materiality 
assessments to make sure we remain 
focused on the right CSR priorities for  
the benefit of our business, our customers, 
our shareowners, our team members,  
and other key stakeholders. Our most recent 
materiality assessment, completed in FY19 
and detailed in this report, demonstrated  
that CSR continues to play a critical role  
in our business success. 
Importantly, in FY19 we mapped our CSR 
focus areas, material issues, and actions to 
the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). Our CSR strategy aligns with 
and supports the SDGs in several key areas. 
Their linkages to our most material issues 
are included in the Materiality section of  
this report and to our programs and progress 
in relevant locations of the Economy, People, 
and Environment chapters. Across our organization, we set 
enterprise-level strategies to deliver  
our global CSR goals and commitments.  
Our shared purpose unites and guides  
the implementation of these efforts at the 
operating company level. Each operating 
company also reports on a core set of 
metrics in support of the enterprise 
strategy. We prioritize our material 
environmental and social issues, as well  
as the areas where we can use our most 
valuable assets – global transportation 
networks, logistics expertise, and the talent 
of our team members – to reduce risks and 
add the greatest possible value to society. 
Finally, we publicly share not only our 
performance results, but our learnings, 
challenges, and successes along the  
way as part of our ongoing commitment  
to transparency.
For more information about the policies  
that inform our CSR strategy, see our  
CSR Policy Statements . Please refer  
to this report’s Data Appendix for  
FY19 CSR performance results. Our culture, principles, and emphasis on long-term performance have 
guided our company since our founding nearly five decades ago.
Our Mission and Values
Mission 
FedEx Corporation will produce 
superior financial returns for its 
shareowners by providing high value-
added logistics, transportation, and 
related business services through 
focused operating companies. 
Customer requirements will be met in 
the highest quality manner appropriate 
to each market segment served. 
FedEx will strive to develop mutually 
rewarding relationships with its team 
members, partners, and suppliers. 
Safety will be the first consideration  
in all operations. Corporate activities 
will be conducted to the highest 
ethical and professional standards.
Values 
• People
• Service
• Innovation
• Integrity
• Responsibility
• Loyalty 
• Safety1010
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Our CSR Focus Areas
CSR Focus Areas Economy People Environment
By connecting businesses and 
communities through a growing 
portfolio of services and tools, we 
enable economic growth and make it 
easier for customers to access new and 
existing markets, thereby helping to raise 
standards of living and improve quality 
of life. We strive to be a role model 
by providing economic opportunities 
to small businesses and people in the 
communities we serve.
• Create value for all stakeholders
• Ensure strong business ethics, 
preparedness, resiliency, continuity, 
and data security
• Innovate products and services  
to optimize our business, help our 
customers, and lift economies
• Enable e-commerce and healthy  
global trade through technology, 
advocacy, and service
• Empower entrepreneurship,  
supplier diversity, and job growth
• Focus on outstanding customer 
experience, satisfaction, and 
convenienceWe engage and empower our more  
than 475,000 team members, providing 
them with safe, inclusive workplaces 
and continued career development 
opportunities that help them thrive. 
We are all united by our commitment 
to the corporate philosophy we call 
People-Service-Profit (PSP). This reflects 
the shared principles that govern every 
FedEx activity, every day, everywhere 
we work.
• Ensure safety in our vehicles,  
air operations, and facilities
• Recruit and retain top talent 
• Foster a workplace that is diverse, 
inclusive, and thriving
• Enable continued education,  
satisfying career pathways,  
and world-class training 
• Provide industry-leading benefits  
to support team member health 
• Support financial well-being and  
retirement optionsBy using our global assets, expertise 
in efficiency, and commitment to 
innovation, we work to minimize our 
environmental footprint, find innovative 
solutions, and improve quality of life. 
Throughout the FedEx organization, our 
Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize approach 
permeates our sustainability efforts, 
with our Environmental Policy guiding 
the operating companies in managing 
environmental performance. 
• Reduce:  Minimize or eliminate impacts 
from activities and operations
• Replace:  Apply the right solutions  
in the right applications
• Revolutionize:  Discover and  
utilize cutting-edge technologies  
and solutions
UN Sustainable 
Development Goals  
(SDGs)
FedEx Cares • Global entrepreneurship • Delivering for good • Sustainable logistics1111
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Global CSR Governance 
The FedEx Board of Directors plays a key role in our global CSR initiatives. 
The FedEx Board of Directors and its 
committees oversee our global CSR 
initiatives. The Board is responsible for 
reviewing and overseeing our culture and 
evaluating management’s efforts to align 
corporate culture with our stated values and 
long-term strategy. Additionally, the Board 
has delegated to each of its committees 
responsibility for the oversight of specific 
aspects of our corporate culture and other 
CSR activities that fall within the 
committee’s areas of responsibility.
The Nominating & Corporate Governance 
Committee reviews and discusses CSR  
and sustainability strategies and programs 
with senior leadership, including our  
Chief Sustainability Officer. 
• The Compensation Committee reviews 
and discusses with management 
the company’s key human capital 
management strategies and programs, 
including diversity and inclusion initiatives.
• The Audit Committee reviews the 
implementation and effectiveness  
of the company’s corporate integrity  
and compliance programs.
• The Information Technology Oversight 
Committee reviews and discusses 
with management the company’s 
technologies, policies, processes and 
practices for managing and mitigating 
cybersecurity risks and monitors 
business continuity and disaster recovery 
capabilities and contingency plans.Environmental Sustainability 
Governance 
The FedEx Enterprise Sustainability Council 
(FESC) is responsible for setting and 
implementing our company-wide 
sustainability strategy. Our Chief 
Sustainability Officer chairs the FESC, 
oversees the company-wide implementation 
of our environmental management system 
and reviews performance annually. 
Additionally, enterprise-wide Sustainability 
Impact Teams (SITs) for global vehicles, 
facilities, air operations, EarthSmart (marketing 
and communications), and sourcing allow  
our operating companies to share synergies, 
ideas, and innovations. The SITs and operating 
companies’ senior sustainability leaders  
report to our Chief Sustainability Officer.
For more information about our environmental 
sustainability initiatives, see the Environment  
chapter of this report.
People CSR Governance 
Our global CSR governance also 
encompasses a variety of functions and 
departments dedicated to our people. 
FedEx executive officers have individual 
objectives that include, but are not limited 
to, the promotion of our commitment to 
diversity, inclusion, and succession planning 
for management positions. Additionally, 
Human Resources (HR) departments in 
each FedEx operating company manage  
HR priorities, including team member career 
development, engagement, and health and 
wellness. Our Corporate HR department promotes consistency of policies across 
operating companies and manages 
executive development, team member 
benefits, and diversity strategy. The FedEx 
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council includes 
members across operating companies who 
coordinate company-wide D&I initiatives.
In addition, each FedEx operating company 
sets workplace safety goals and implements 
our Safety Above All philosophy through 
policies and programs relevant to its  
specific operations. 
For more information about our programs 
for career development, diversity and 
inclusion, and safety, see the People  
chapter of this report.
FedEx Express
Environmental  
& Sustainability
LeadershipFedEx Ground
Environmental  
& Sustainability
LeadershipFedEx Freight
Environmental  
& Sustainability
LeadershipFedEx Office
Environmental  
& Sustainability  
Leadership• Air Operations
• EarthSmart
• Facilities
• Sourcing
• VehiclesBoard of Directors
Nominating & Governance CommitteeFedEx Enterprise Sustainability  
Council – FESC
Chief Sustainability Officer  
Chair — FESCSustainability 
Impact TeamsEnvironmental Sustainability Governance Structure1212
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Materiality – Focusing on What Matters Most 
Given these evolving factors, it is important 
to re-evaluate the potential challenges, 
opportunities, and topics that are most 
important to FedEx, to our stakeholders, 
and to society. 
Our most recent materiality assessment 
in 2019 re-evaluated the topics previously 
identified as most important from the 
business perspective, stakeholder 
perspective, and societal perspective, 
and identified new and emerging topics. 
These were then analyzed to determine 
opportunities to leverage existing CSR 
activities and guide our CSR and business 
strategies going forward, while further 
mitigating risks. This 2019 work built  
on our first CSR materiality assessment  
in 2014 and our external stakeholder  
review in 2016, and aligned with the  
GRI Reporting Standards guidance and 
other best practices to identify, review,  
and revise topics for assessment.
Input to the materiality process included a 
literature review, analysis of global trends, 
and benchmarking of leading sustainability 
practices. It also included internal and 
external stakeholder engagement. Internal 
engagement comprised interviews with 
senior management across the business 
and an online survey to hundreds of employees around the world. External 
stakeholder engagement included phone 
interviews with representatives from 
academia, customers, industry associations, 
media, NGOs, and suppliers, as well as an 
online survey. 
A list of relevant topics was created from 
this input, before being refined and validated 
in a full-day workshop with key internal 
stakeholders to determine material topics. 
Workshop stakeholders represented a 
broad range of FedEx functions across 
the company. Materiality was determined 
according to:
1. The topic’s significance, based on 
scientific consensus, societal consensus 
(as represented by the SDGs), and 
stakeholder consensus
2. The topic’s potential influence on 
stakeholder assessment and decisions Over the past year, the global business environment has continued 
to change. The growth of e-commerce, frequency of extreme 
weather events, heightened focus on climate change, increased 
complexity of global trade, data security concerns, and competitive 
labor markets all continue to impact our operating environment.The outcome of this process was our 
updated materiality matrix, which identifies 
the topics that matter most to our business, 
our stakeholders and, more broadly, to 
society and our planet. Our 2019 process 
also confirmed the most material topics – those reflecting global priorities and 
topics that are critical to our business – 
remained largely consistent with our initial 
assessment, while also identifying relevant 
megatrends and their role in our CSR 
priorities and strategy. 
Customers RegulatorsSuppliersShareowners
Teamm
embers
Government
Media
communities LocalorganizationsNon-governmentalSupply chain
workers
Our stakeholders1313
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Highest-Ranked Material Topics
Our highest-rated material topics are 
measured and managed across our owned 
and operated businesses. We mapped 
these topics – divided into the categories  
of Global Priorities and Commercially Critical  
– to our CSR focus areas and approaches.Subsequently, we determined the most 
relevant SDGs aligned with those topics. 
This provides a more holistic picture of 
our progress and allows us to better 
identify those areas where our approach 
is effectively addressing stakeholder and 
business needs, as well as those areas 
where changes might be warranted. 
Global Priority Topics 
These are topics over which FedEx has a significant impact and influence on stakeholder decisions.  
They are also topics that stakeholders expect us to address proactively.
Topic Area Material Topics Relevant UN SDGs Relevant Report Chapters and Sections
Governance Ethics, integrity,  
bribery, and corruptionOur CSR Strategy – Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
Global governance structure and practices, including enterprise-wide ethics and compliance 
policies, programs, and training activities 
Data/IT security  
and data privacyOur CSR Strategy – Data Security and Privacy
Information technology security initiatives, policies, and privacy notices, including risk management, 
Online FedEx Trust Center with data protection resources, and Global Privacy Office
Supply chain Social impact of  
FedEx supply chainsEconomy – Our Global Supply Chain
Supplier diversity, sustainability, and compliance guided by FedEx Supplier Relationship 
Management team across all operating companies 
Environment GHG emissions associated  
with transportation fleet Environment – Energy and GHG Emission Reduction
Fuel efficiency and emission reduction targets, aircraft and vehicle fleet modernization, 
alternative fuel strategies, and responsible advocacy for regulatory and policy changes  
for fuel efficiency and emission reduction standards
Environmental impact  
on local communitiesEnabling E-Commerce, Expanding What’s Possible
Economy – Driving Innovation
Innovative last-mile delivery solutions, including use of robots and drones, pilot studies to optimize 
urban package pickup and delivery, and other advancements to reduce emissions, traffic 
congestion, and noise 
Convenient package pickup or dropoff locations at more than 94,000 various stores,  
FedEx Office locations, and others around the world by the end of 2020Materiality – Focusing on What Matters Most (Continued)1414
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Materiality – Focusing on What Matters Most (Continued)
Topic Area Material Topics Relevant UN SDGs Relevant Report Chapters and Sections
People Workplace safety  
and team member  
securityPeople – Safety Above All
Wide range of team member vehicle, aviation, and workplace safety training and awareness 
programs, as well as state-of-the-art safety systems and equipment
Team member  
diversity and  
inclusionPeople – Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity & Inclusion Council to drive an inclusive culture, along with education and numerous 
initiatives and team member resources to foster a diverse and inclusive environment in our 
operating companies
Workforce recruitment, 
retention, pay, hours,  
conditions, and  
developmentPeople – Recruiting and Retaining Top Talent
People – Learning and Development
People – Team Member Quality of Life
Variety of recruiting, training, career development, and educational assistance opportunities, 
including internships, scholarships, mentoring, and tuition support, as well as world-class 
employee benefits for health and wellness
Economy Economic impact  
and access Economy – Multiplying Possibilities Beyond Our Business
Economy – Our Global Supply Chain
Our CSR Strategy – FedEx Cares
Diverse programs to support youth, women, veterans, and others in accessing employment; 
assistance to small-business owners; and cash, in-kind support, and volunteering to benefit 
people and communities1515
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Materiality – Focusing on What Matters Most (Continued)
Commercially Critical Topics 
These are topics that are commercially relevant to our business and that represent a high level of influence on key stakeholder assessments and decisions.
Topic Area Material Topics UN SDGs Relevant Report Chapters and Sections
Economy Product and service  
innovationEnabling E-Commerce, Expanding What’s Possible
Economy – Driving Innovation
Development and testing of Roxo™, the FedEx SameDay Bot, and drone delivery to support 
e-commerce growth, while also reducing emissions, traffic congestion, and noise, especially  
in busy urban areas; blockchain technology for traceability; packaging innovations to minimize 
materials, dimensions, weight, and waste
FedEx financial well-being  
and profitabilityEconomy – Multiplying Possibilities in Our Business
One of the largest U.S.-based companies, with more than 475,000 team members and 6% 
increase in FY19 total revenue over FY18
Customer experience, 
satisfaction, and serviceEconomy – Driving Innovation
Development and testing of Roxo, the FedEx SameDay Bot, and drone delivery — just two  
of our recent innovations with the potential to enhance customer convenience and service
People Road and  
public safetyPeople – Safety Above All
Fleet enhancements with state-of-the-art safety systems and equipment; driver safety programs 
and training; support of community-based road safety programs, such as Safe Kids
Governance Business preparedness, 
resiliency, and disaster  
responseOur CSR Strategy – Business Preparedness, Resiliency, and Disaster Response
Contingency plans for events such as disasters or social unrest, participation in numerous 
emergency management organizations, and disaster relief aid through in-kind shipping1616
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Responsible Engagement 
Connecting with Our Stakeholders 
While formal CSR materiality assessments 
inform and refine our approach, goals, 
targets, and metrics on environmental, 
social, and governance topics, we also 
seek wide-ranging input from our team 
members and external stakeholders through 
ongoing engagement efforts. For instance, 
our proactive shareowner engagement 
program allows us to meet regularly with 
our largest shareowners to discuss our 
business strategy, operations, sustainability, 
and social responsibility programs, as well 
as corporate governance and other topics 
of interest to them. This provides us the 
feedback needed to better understand  
their priorities, perspectives, and concerns, 
and effectively address issues that matter 
most to them.
In addition, we recognize that FedEx 
customers around the world are increasingly 
interested in our CSR performance, and 
we meet with them when appropriate to 
discuss our CSR programs and progress.  
To make sure they have additional 
convenient avenues for receiving the 
information they seek, we use a streamlined 
approach to share our environmental, 
social, and governance performance. This 
includes providing detailed information on 
a wide variety of CSR topics to recognized external platforms and protocols, including 
the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure 
Project), EcoVadis, and Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA). We also report on 
these issues in our own publicly available 
documents, such as the FedEx Annual 
Report , Proxy Statement , and this report. 
Minimizing Impacts  
on Local Communities 
We are leveraging a variety of innovative 
approaches to reduce road congestion 
and emissions, and are testing emerging 
technologies that use robotics, artificial 
intelligence, and drone technology to 
further minimize the impact of motorized 
vehicles we have on the road. Across our 
operating companies, we work to minimize 
impacts and make sure known impacts 
do not adversely affect the communities 
where we operate. For instance, FedEx 
Express participates in airport-directed 
noise monitoring and control programs, and 
works with industry associations to provide 
accurate information about the benefits 
and impacts of aviation. As part of new 
construction at some airports, we perform 
a noise analysis on the impact of our 
construction as well as the impacts of our 
new facilities once they are operational.Growing our business responsibly, resourcefully and in a 
forward-thinking manner not only drives the long-term success  
of our company, but also benefits millions of stakeholders  
by creating income and opportunities for customers,  
team members, communities, shareowners, and suppliers.
1717
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
For example, we support efforts to 
modernize federal laws and regulations that 
encourage safety and efficiency advances 
in transportation technology, such as the 
use of robotics and drone technology to 
revolutionize package delivery.
In 2019 for the first time in the U.S., a 
drone completed a scheduled commercial 
residential delivery to a home in Virginia. 
The drone delivery was conducted by Wing 
Aviation LLC, a subsidiary of Alphabet, Inc., 
in collaboration with FedEx Express, as part 
of the U.S. Department of Transportation’s 
Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integration 
Pilot Program (IPP). The delivery of a FedEx 
Express package on October 18, 2019, 
marked the launch of our first scheduled 
commercial residential drone delivery 
service and the first scheduled e-commerce 
delivery via drone delivery trial in the  
U.S. For more about our first-of-its-kind 
testing of drone delivery, see the  
Driving Innovation section in the  
Economy chapter of this report.CSR Advocacy 
FedEx is also participating in the U.S. 
Department of Transportation Unmanned 
Aircraft System IPP in conjunction with  
the Memphis Shelby-County Airport 
Authority, conducting drone operations  
on airport property to generate data  
to help inform future unmanned  
aircraft system policymaking.
Likewise, FedEx supports responsible 
policies to advance alternative fuel 
technologies for the commercial sector. 
From 2007 through 2019, we have 
successfully advocated for legislation and 
regulation, such as the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Phase 2 fuel efficiency 
and GHG standards, which established 
first-ever GHG standards for all commercial 
vehicles in the U.S., and incentivizes the 
production of clean technology vehicles such 
as hybrid-electric, all-electric, alternative fuel, 
fuel cell, and other advanced technology 
vehicles needed by FedEx, as well as other 
commercial vehicle fleets. We have also been working with the state 
of California to support their public policy 
efforts toward zero-emission vehicles. 
We share the state’s desire for commercially 
available, scalable, zero-emission vehicles, 
and we want to make sure that vehicle 
manufacturers plan to develop vehicles 
that can meet our performance needs, 
including sufficient power, weight capacity, 
and other requirements.
Also in FY19 and in concert with many 
others in the transportation industry, we 
continued engaging with U.S. federal 
lawmakers and regulators to allow larger 
33-foot trailers in a twin configuration. 
Notably, this solution does not require  
any change to gross vehicle weight,  
could increase freight capacity by 18% 
and reduce truck traffic on highways by 
1.3 billion miles per year. The resulting  
fuel and emissions savings for our linehaul 
and freight operations, as well as others, 
could be significant.
To learn more, please view our  
Policy Perspectives Overview .To further progress toward our CSR goals, we support responsible 
advocacy such as initiatives that advance next-generation  
delivery innovations, talent management, fleet efficiency,  
and alternative fuel technology. Alliances for  
Industry Progress 
FedEx works with various government and 
industry organizations to foster innovation 
and improve the transportation sector’s 
environmental, social, and business  
performance including:
Business and Governance
• American Trucking Associations
• Business Ethics Leadership Alliance
• European Express Association
• Express Association of America
• International Air Transport Association  
and Airlines for America
• International Civil Aviation Organization
• International Road Assessment Programme
• The Business Roundtable
• Society for Corporate Governance 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• U.S. Federal Aviation Administration
Innovation
• Blockchain in Transport Alliance  
(charter member)
• Blockchain Research Institute
People
• American Industrial Hygiene Association
• American Society of Safety Engineers
• Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance
• Inner City Capital Connections 
• Women’s Business Enterprise  
National Council
Environment
• The Electrification Coalition
• Keystone Policy Center Energy Board
• Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance
• Securing America’s Future Energy
• Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council
• U.S. Department of Energy, National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration and National 
Clean Fleets Partnership 
• U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 
SmartWay® Program1818
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
Corporate Integrity and  
Compliance department
Each FedEx operating company works within 
a unique set of regulatory environments and 
maintains compliance with regional and 
sector-specific requirements. Globally, the 
FedEx Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
department serves as a central resource to 
further embed the FedEx commitment to 
integrity in everything we do. Led by our 
Chief Compliance Officer, this department 
provides best practices, tools, and guidance, 
as well as communications and training 
to team members across the enterprise. 
FedEx encourages team members to 
report any potential legal or ethical violation 
to management, Legal, HR, Security,  
or the 24-hour FedEx Alert Line, which  
is accessible via telephone and online,  
with translations in over 35 languages. 
For more information about our compliance 
record, as well as compliance in the social 
and economic area, see the 2019 Proxy 
Statement .Code of Conduct
Trust and reliability are critically important to 
our customers. FedEx team members earn 
this trust each day by delivering the Purple 
Promise. The FedEx Code of Conduct  
provides guidance for team members and 
demonstrates how to act lawfully and 
ethically at all times. The Code applies  
to every FedEx officer, director, and  
team member across the enterprise. 
As the foundation of our corporate integrity 
and compliance program, the Code sets a 
high standard for team member conduct 
worldwide. The Code’s provisions cover, 
among other things, workplace health, 
safety, and environment; human rights; 
money laundering prevention; equal 
opportunity and anti-harassment; conflicts 
of interest; improper payments and bribes; 
gifts and entertainment; and data security 
and privacy. 
The Code was first adopted in June 2003 
and continues to be updated periodically.  
In 2019, it was updated and streamlined to 
make sure it remains engaging, accessible, 
and relevant to our global team members. 
The Code helps team members understand 
how to adhere to the laws, ethical standards, 
ideas, and values relevant to FedEx, offering scenarios and examples of how to apply the 
Code in action. Our officers, directors, and 
managers have the additional responsibility 
of promoting the principles set forth in 
the Code and fostering a culture in which 
ethical conduct is recognized, valued, and 
demonstrated by all team members. Our 
commitment to doing the right thing depends 
on our leaders’ ability to set the proper tone 
and address suspected violations promptly, 
with care and respect.
Pursuant to the Code, if any FedEx officer, 
director, manager, or employee knows or 
suspects a violation of the Code, any law, 
regulation, or FedEx policy, they must report 
the matter immediately to a manager, 
company contact, HR, the FedEx Alert Line, 
FedEx Legal, or Security. When a matter is reported to a manager or 
HR, those team members will review and 
determine whether it should be escalated  
to the Legal department. The Legal 
department has criteria for further escalation 
within the Legal department management.
Additional policies specify our requirements 
and expectations on a range of integrity  
and compliance matters. These are 
developed and updated when we identify 
a need for employee clarification, the 
emergence of new regulations, or other 
external factors. For more information,  
see our policies . FedEx strives to maintain the highest standards of business and 
personal ethics. Integrity is essential to the FedEx culture, brand,  
and reputation, and is a foundational pillar of the company’s success. 
FedEx takes this responsibility seriously and is also committed to 
complying with all laws in the countries in which we operate.
1919
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Anti-Corruption Policies  
and Practices 
We are committed to complying with all 
anti-corruption laws and prohibit bribes  
of any type throughout our organization.  
Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy and 
related Anti-Corruption Compliance 
Procedures provide detailed guidance to 
team members. Anti-corruption training 
is required for team members in relevant 
roles. This includes management in 
international operations, as well as team 
members and suppliers who interact with 
government officials on behalf of FedEx, 
such as customs and border personnel.
Our third-party compliance program 
includes due diligence, contractual 
anti-corruption representations and 
warranties, annual certifications of 
compliance, training, contracts, ongoing 
watch list monitoring, and other practices 
to mitigate risks. The Code includes a clear 
prohibition of improper payments and 
bribes, descriptions of what would be 
considered improper, questions and 
answers, and reference to the Global 
Anti-Corruption Policy for more detailed 
information. 
We maintain a robust program to ensure 
that our third-party suppliers and contractors 
adhere to requirements and expectations for 
ethical and compliant behavior at all times. 
This begins with background due diligence 
and specific contract language, and in some 
circumstances extends to internal audits, 
business reviews, annual certifications of 
compliance, and training in anti-corruption 
and other topics. A Workplace Free of  
Harassment and Discrimination 
At FedEx, a respective and inclusive work 
environment for all team members is of 
utmost importance. Through the Code, 
policies on equal opportunity and non-  
discrimination, training, and related resources, 
we strive to create an environment free of 
harassment and discrimination. Our policy 
against retaliation encourages employees 
to come forward to report concerns in good 
faith. We take any report of such behavior 
seriously and treat each incident with 
confidentiality and sensitivity.
Supporting Human Rights
Our commitment to protecting human  
rights is an important part of our Code of 
Conduct. We are committed to protecting 
and advancing human rights in all of our 
operations around the world. We prohibit 
the use of child, compulsory, or forced labor, 
and have zero tolerance for and prohibit 
slavery and human trafficking. We pay fair 
wages and comply with wage laws in all  
the countries where we operate. And we 
require our third parties and suppliers  
to uphold these important principles.Combating Human Trafficking
We share the zero-tolerance policies adopted 
by the U.S. and other governments against 
slavery or the trafficking of persons for any 
purpose. We prohibit trafficking-related 
activities and expect the same of our 
suppliers and contractors. We have also 
launched a training program to educate, 
equip, empower, and mobilize select team 
members in this effort.
See the FedEx Policy Prohibiting Trafficking 
in Persons for more information about our 
commitment.Corporate Integrity and Compliance (Continued)
2020
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Ethics, Integrity, and Compliance 
Training and Communications 
Regular training is a key component of 
our corporate integrity and compliance 
program. To ensure our compliance training 
– including courses in anti-corruption, 
antitrust, conflicts of interest, trade controls, 
insider trading, data privacy, and other  
topics covered in the updated Code – 
connects deeply with our employees,  
we collaborated with a new vendor to 
update our online compliance training 
in FY19. The updated online training is 
engaging and provides numerous ways 
for team members to connect with the 
importance of the messages.
Rollout of the new Code was accompanied 
by an array of communications and training. 
For employees who do not have regular 
access to computers, such as couriers 
and airport ramp personnel, managers 
have been given resources and talking 
points about the Code to discuss in pre-
shift meetings. More detailed in-person 
training has also been developed for 
certain positions, depending on the role 
and associated risks they may face as part 
of their job. For existing team members, 
the pace of training on the Code and other 
compliance topics has varying recurrence 
depending on their job duties and the risks 
they may face. Every new employee also 
has exposure to the Code, either through 
online training or manager discussions. We also encourage all of our operating 
companies to implement their own 
communications plans for the Code, drawing 
on guidance and best practices provided 
by the Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
team and customized to local operating 
environments and languages. This includes 
making sure that managers frequently talk 
about the Code with employees. 
With respect to acquisitions, FedEx takes  
a risk-based approach in determining the 
type of training new employees will need. 
We then develop targeted training materials 
and communications on ethics, compliance,  
and related policies designed to make sure 
the FedEx culture of compliance is ingrained 
in that new company right away. Staff from 
our Corporate Integrity and Compliance 
department and/or regional Legal team  
are available to provide support and  
training to the newly acquired companies.
Data Security and Privacy
Protecting the privacy of our customers, 
vendors, and team members is critical to 
maintaining their trust. We take precautions 
to safeguard all personal data and ensure 
a secure environment, including customer 
transactions. In FY17 and FY18, we took 
the necessary steps to update our privacy 
practices and policies in response to the 
European Union (EU) General Data Protection 
Regulation. This included creating a Global 
Privacy Office that addresses not only  
EU legislation, but upcoming regulations in 
other regions as well, including the California 
Consumer Privacy Act in 2020. FedEx also 
uses Binding Corporate Rules, which were 
approved in FY19, to enable the flow of 
European data across our organization. The FedEx Trust Center  website highlights 
our Global Privacy Policy , along with 
information about how FedEx protects 
customer privacy and resources to help 
customers identify, report, and mitigate risks. 
Notably, FedEx does not sell its customers’ 
personal data to third parties. For more 
information, please see our 2019 Form 10-K .Corporate Integrity and Compliance (Continued)
2121
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Business Preparedness, Resiliency, and Disaster Response 
We proactively establish contingency 
plans that focus on restoring service to 
customers while ensuring team member 
safety. We have over 40 years of experience 
in proactively addressing situations, such 
as severe weather events, that can occur 
at any given time anywhere in the world. 
We are adept at implementing contingency 
plans at a moment’s notice to respond 
quickly, efficiently, and on a global scale. 
This positions us to safely restore operations 
promptly following natural disasters, serve 
our customers as quickly as possible,  
and ensure security for their shipments.
Our operating companies have planning 
teams that apply sophisticated analytical 
models to assess scenarios that could 
potentially affect our operations and 
develop robust strategies to ensure network 
resilience. These tools incorporate a 
variety of factors, including but not limited 
to population, congestion, and demand 
changes. We also have an in-house, 
15-staff meteorology division that utilizes 
state-of-the-art weather monitoring tools 
to manage risks associated with global 
weather patterns.To further support our internal processes, 
we participate in State Emergency 
Operations Centers programs, as well as 
the FEMA-Northern Command Public-
Private-Partnership program, which brings 
private-sector companies like FedEx 
together with national, state, and local 
emergency management organizations to 
work collaboratively before, during, and after 
disasters. Our active participation in these 
initiatives helps us gain the earliest possible 
safe re-entry to affected areas.As a leading global logistics company, we encounter challenging 
situations, ranging from natural disasters to social unrest, in the course 
of doing business. Preparing for these events is critical to sustaining 
our global operations and minimizing impact on customers.
2222
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
CSR Goals and Progress 
In FY19, we made continued progress toward  
our social and environmental goals, meeting our  
community investment goal ahead of schedule. Goal Progress
24% 40.9%30% 50%
 24% reduction from a 2005 baseline.
 
NOTE:  We have not yet achieved our 30% reduction  
goal due to retained aircraft that had been scheduled 
for retirement. We have announced we will be retiring 
aircraft in FY20. Improved fuel efficiency by 1.3% during FY19, 
contributing to a 40.9% improvement from  
a 2005 baseline.Aircraft emissions intensity
Reduce aircraft emissions intensity  
30% from a 2005 baseline by 2020Vehicle fuel efficiency
Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency  
50% from a 2005 baseline by 2025
$200m$219m
 Investment goal met in FY19: $219 million since 2016.
 Community goal met in FY18: 378 communities 
benefited since 2016.
 
NOTE:  FedEx Cares goal was set in 2016 and met in 2019, 
ahead of schedule. Our new goal is FedEx Cares 50 by 50  
– we will directly impact 50 million people by our 50th 
anniversary in 2023.Investment in communities
Invest $200 million in 200 communities  
around the world by 2020 2323
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 23LEED-certified facilities
Seek LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) certification on all 
new U.S. FedEx Express buildingsAlternative fuels
Obtain 30% of jet fuel from  
alternative fuels by 2030Renewable energy
Expand on-site energy generation  
and continue to procure renewable  
energy for facilitiesCSR Goals and Progress (Continued)
FedEx Express (U.S.) Low-carbon, renewable jet fuel
322Red Rock 
Biofuels1ST225
New LEED-certified 
facilities in FY19LEED-certified FedEx 
Express facilities at the 
end of FY19, totaling 
275,850 square metersRed Rock Biofuels, which 
will supply low-carbon, 
renewable jet fuel to  
FedEx Express, began 
constructing a biodiesel 
refinery in 2019.  
The refinery anticipates 
shipping its first delivery of 
product by the end of 2020.The first delivery of 
alternative jet fuels  
is anticipated in the  
second half of 2020.New solar  
installations in FY19Total on-site solar 
installations at end  
of FY19
  FedEx Express (Int’l.): 3 LEED-certified facilities
  FedEx Ground (U.S.): 6 LEED-certified facilities
  FedEx Office (U.S.): 1 LEED-certified facility
  FedEx Freight (U.S): 1 LEED-certified facility  More than 23 million kWh generated in FY19
  13,447 metric tons of CO2e emissions  
avoided in FY192424
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
We deliver the connections that help 
create possibilities in communities globally 
by investing in strategies and programs 
that align with our values. This includes 
monetary donations, in-kind shipping 
services, and team member volunteering 
to benefit communities around the world. 
FedEx Citizenship evolved its strategy to 
meet the changing needs of society and 
our business. FedEx believes we can make 
even greater impact by strengthening our 
commitment to three focus areas.
FedEx Cares Focus Areas
Global Entrepreneurship
Providing women and minority 
entrepreneurs everywhere with  
the tools they need to succeed.
Delivering for Good
Lending our global network and our 
unparalleled logistics expertise to 
organizations with mission-critical needs, 
especially in times of disaster, and to help 
communities heal, learn, and thrive.
Sustainable Logistics 
Sharing our global logistics expertise  
to improve urban mobility and accelerate 
progress toward more sustainable  
fleets in order to restore and protect  
the natural environment. In 2019, we surpassed the citizenship goal 
we set in 2016 – invest $200 million in 
200 communities by 2020 – and invested 
a total of $219 million that benefited 378 
communities. Since 2016, we have been 
honored and humbled to support individuals, 
communities, and entrepreneurs as they 
work to create a better future. For example, 
from 2016 to 2019, the contributions 
supported include:
•  Delivery of 3,108 relief shipments, with 
humanitarian aid valued at $105.8 million, 
to 888 health clinics and hospitals in  
41 countries through Direct Relief. 
• Access to loans for 10,000 small-business 
owners helping their businesses reach 
new heights.
• Training and support for 207 women 
entrepreneurs in Latin America and the 
Caribbean, the Middle East, North Africa, 
and sub-Saharan Africa through the 
ongoing Vital Voices program. 
• Sustainable transportation programs  
that benefited 7.3 million+ people globally. 
In FY20, we launched an ambitious new 
initiative to build on our good work and 
celebrate our 50th anniversary in 2023. 
FedEx Cares 50 by 50 aims to directly 
impact 50 million people by our 50th year 
of operations in 2023. FedEx Cares 50 by 
50 enables social change around the world FedEx Cares: Community Giving 
We believe that investing in communities has the potential  
to multiply opportunities around the world. FedEx Cares,  
our global community engagement program, is one more way  
we live out our purpose of connecting people and possibilities. 
through a combination of charitable giving, 
in-kind contributions, and team member 
volunteerism focused on direct and 
positive impacts to individuals. Already, 
the program is leveraging FedEx business 
and logistics expertise and combining it 
with team members’ passion to create 
opportunities and build more vibrant 
communities worldwide.
For more information, visit the 
FedEx Cares website.
2525
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Community Giving
Goal:
Previous goal:  Invest $200 million in 200 
communities around the world by 2020
(FedEx Cares goal was set in 2016).
New goal:  Directly impact 50 million  
people by our 50th anniversary in 2023.
Progress:
Met and exceeded financial contribution goal, 
with $219 million invested in communities.
Met and exceeded goal for number of 
communities benefited, with 378 in total.
We are committed to actively supporting the 
communities we serve through the strategic 
investment of our people, resources, and 
network. We provide financial contributions, 
in-kind charitable shipping services, and 
team member volunteering to help non-profit 
organizations achieve their goals and make a 
measurable impact. We also devote additional 
resources to FedEx Cares focus areas.
For instance, in support of the Sustainable 
Logistics focus area, FedEx has collaborated 
with World Resources Institute (WRI) for the 
last decade to develop urban mobility solutions 
in some of the world’s fastest-growing cities 
through a steadfast focus on improved public 
transit services. These solutions connect people 
to jobs, schools, and opportunities by improving 
the quality, safety, and efficiency of public 
transport. Through support on topics such as 
quality-of-service benchmarking and perception, 
fleet electrification, and emissions targets, 
driver-safety training, route optimization tools, 
asset management, and fleet mobilization and 
resiliency planning, this successful collaboration 
with WRI has helped over 9 million people in  
36 cities across Brazil, China, India, and Mexico. 
These projects have scaled to other countries  
in Latin America, Europe, and Africa.FY19 Community Giving 
$62.41m $53.78m $7.70m
Total corporate charitable 
contributionsCash grants Charitable shipping
$.93m $8.9m 24,684
Corporate marketing and  
operating company in-kind givingTeam member United  
Way cash contributionsTeam member volunteers, 
nearly double FY18
105,845 >500
Volunteer hours Communities participating
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 2626
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Awards and Recognition 
World’s Most Admired Companies 2019 
(10th)
FORTUNE
100 Best Places to Work 2019 (15th)
FORTUNE
Anti-Corruption and CSR Award
COALITION FOR INTEGRITY
Best Workplaces for Diversity 2018 
(15th)
FORTUNE AND GREAT PLACE TO WORK INSTITUTE
Citizens Awards: Best Disaster 
Response and Community  
Resilience Program 2019
U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
America’s Top Corporations for  
Women’s Business Enterprises 2018
WOMEN’S BUSINESS ENTERPRISE  
NATIONAL COUNCIL
50 Best Companies for Diversity 2018
BLACK ENTERPRISE
Innovation by Design Award 
Honoree for Roxo™, the FedEx 
SameDay Bot 2019
FAST COMPANYWorld’s Best Employers 2019 (15th)
FORBES
The Civic 50 Listing of America’s Most 
Community-Minded Companies 2019
POINTS OF LIGHT
Spotlight Impact Award 2019
ERG & COUNCIL HONORS AWARD
America’s Most Responsible  
Companies 2020 (84th)
NEWSWEEK
America’s Most Responsible Companies 
2020: Travel, Transport, & Logistics 
Sector (1st)
NEWSWEEK
A- Leadership Level Score, 
Climate Change Disclosure 2019
CDP
Top Corporate  
Solar Users 2018 (14th)
SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION
Best of the Best Corporation  
for Inclusion 2019
NATIONAL BUSINESS INCLUSION CONSORTIUM
Economy
Multiplying Growth
We leverage innovation and the efficiency of our  
network to support our customers in sustainably  
meeting their shipping needs. With a network that  
spans six continents, we believe that a more connected 
world is a more prosperous one, and we are proud  
of our role as a vital – and responsible – connector  
of the global economy.
 94,000+
By the end of 2020, customers will be able to pick up or 
drop off FedEx packages at more than 94,000 sites around 
the world including various grocery stores and pharmacies, 
FedEx Office locations, and FedEx drop boxes.
27
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
27Our Approach – Expertise and Innovation
Financial Highlights FY17 FY18 FY19
Revenue ($B) $60.3 $65.5 $69.7
Operating income ($M) $4,566 $4,272 $4,466
Operating margin 7.6% 6.5% 6.4%
Net income ($M) $2,997 $4,572 $540
Diluted EPS $11.07 $16.79 $2.03
Capital expenditures ($B) $5.1 $5.7 $5.5
Stakeholder Value Add FY17 FY18 FY19
Dividends paid to shareowners ($M) $426 $535 $683
Salaries and employee benefits ($B) $21.99 $23.80 $24.78
Diverse supplier spend ($B) $9.1 $9.6 $12.3
Community investment ($M) $65.30 $64.12 $62.40
For detailed financial statements, please see our 2019 Form 10-K  and other financial disclosures.$69.7b
in revenue, up 6% from FY18
Multiplying Possibilities  
in Our Business 
FedEx provides customers and businesses 
worldwide with a broad, deep, and 
innovative suite of transportation, 
e-commerce and business solutions that 
multiply opportunities worldwide. By 
delivering integrated business products 
and services throughout our network of 
operating companies, we help to drive 
growth and lift economies across the globe. 
Our operating companies are managed 
collaboratively under the respected FedEx 
brand and united by our longstanding Purple 
Promise: to make every FedEx experience 
outstanding. It guides everything we do. 
For more information about our operating 
companies, visit About FedEx . 
FedEx remains committed to producing 
superior financial returns for shareowners 
by providing high value-added logistics, 
transportation, and related business 
services. Our successful strategy of 
managing FedEx as a portfolio of business 
solutions allows us to prepare for and 
respond to marketplace changes quickly 
and efficiently while providing outstanding 
service to our customers. As a result, total 
revenue increased in FY19 by more than 6% 
to $69.7 billion, and we climbed to No. 47 
on the Fortune 500 list of U.S. companies. During FY19 and into FY20, we have  
been closely monitoring and taking 
appropriate steps to address changes in 
the geopolitical landscape. This includes 
mitigating risks associated with shifting 
global trade volumes, trade policy, 
uncertainty over Brexit, and softening 
macroeconomic conditions. 
Creating Value for  
All Our Stakeholders 
At FedEx, we are committed to stable, 
long-term value creation and growth that 
benefits our stakeholders around the world. 
We believe that our earnings, value, and 
opportunities increase if we remain true to 
the concerns of FedEx stakeholders and 
operate in keeping with our interdependent 
interests and aspirations. To this end, in 
FY19 our Chairman and CEO Frederick 
W. Smith joined with 180 other CEOs of 
large companies in signing the Business 
Roundtable Statement on the Purpose of 
a Corporation , formally acknowledging a 
position we have held since our founding: 
that our company exists to benefit all 
stakeholders – customers, employees, 
suppliers, communities, and shareholders.We combine nearly five decades of expertise in transportation 
and logistics with a longstanding commitment to innovative 
solutions that deliver outstanding value to our business,  
our team members, our shareholders, and the customers  
and communities we serve.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
2828
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Multiplying Possibilities Beyond Our Business 
Our belief that a connected world is a better world allows  
us to add value to customers and communities. With networks  
that link more than 99% of the world’s gross domestic product, 
we connect people with goods, services, and ideas in ways 
that strengthen our business, while creating opportunities 
and positive impacts for society. 
Whether we are enabling global trade, 
helping small businesses expand to new 
markets, or coaching the next generation  
of entrepreneurs, our products and services 
– and the talent of our more than 475,000 
team members – connect people and 
possibilities. Small and diverse businesses 
support jobs and global innovation. They can 
be powerful disruptors to the status quo, 
leading in the development and application 
of new technologies. At FedEx, we know 
a thing or two about entrepreneurship 
and innovation, beginning with the unique 
vision of our Founder and Chairman, 
Frederick W. Smith,  nearly 50 years ago. 
Of course, it takes more than a good 
idea and hard work to grow a successful 
business. That’s why we empower 
entrepreneurship through programs that 
provide tools, resources, and training to help 
small enterprises succeed. Many of these 
tools are accessible through fedex.com  
to conveniently connect business owners 
with expertise and shipping solutions for 
everything from fulfilling e-commerce 
orders and handling returns, to marketing a small business and expanding to 
international markets. The FedEx® Small 
Business Center  provides a wealth of 
resources, wh ile FedEx Know and GrowSM 
offers resources and education events for 
current and potential customers interested 
in learning more about exporting, importing, 
and international business growth. 
We are pleased to report that in FY19, our 
global revenue from small and medium 
business customers grew more than 8%.  
In the U.S. alone, there are already more 
than 32 million small businesses, and we 
are proud to serve so many of them as  
they grow their reach and their revenue.  
An example of one of the ways we  
support our small and medium business 
customers was our decision to not apply  
a residential peak surcharge during the  
2019 holiday season. We continued this 
practice for the third year in a row and  
have received outstanding feedback from 
small-and medium-sized customers aiming 
to grow e-commerce opportunities for  
their businesses.One of the most significant ways for small- 
and medium-sized enterprises to multiply 
their growth is by leveraging trade deals, 
but many are failing to access these deals. 
FedEx provides knowledge and resources 
to help them clear customs confidently and 
quickly. We also advocate automating as 
many shipping processes as possible using 
tools like FedEx® Global Trade Manager, 
which helps small- and medium-sized 
enterprises estimate duties and taxes or find 
the necessary documents. In some regions, 
we are working with customs authorities to 
expand clearance solutions for cross-border 
e-commerce. In China, for instance, we 
recently launched a “one stop” business-
to-consumer import customs clearance 
solution designed to support small- and 
medium-sized e-retailers.
We also contribute to global and local 
entrepreneurship through initiatives 
that foster economic empowerment 
by pro viding training, grants, and other 
resources. For example, we support 
Inner City Capital Connections (ICCC), 
a 40-hou r tuition-free program designed to help small businesses in economically 
distressed areas build capacity for 
sustainable growth. The program provides 
education in marketing, finance, and sales, 
as well as one-on-one coaching. Since 
2017, FedEx has provided funding for ICCC 
programs across the U.S., helping more than 
2,400 small businesses – including 200 in 
our headquarters city, Memphis, Tennessee 
– access funding, create good-paying jobs, 
and support their local communities.
8%
Small and medium business 
customer segment revenue 
grew more than 8% in FY19
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
2929
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Multiplying Possibilities Beyond Our Business (Continued)
Connecting Business  
Customers With Solutions
Our FedEx Services team members 
coordinate sales, marketing, 
communications, information technology, 
and customer service support for the FedEx 
global brand. In addition, they integrate the 
technology and services our customers 
need to create solutions for global supply 
chains, e-commerce, and other business 
challenges. This includes supporting small 
businesses and new entrepreneurs growing 
their online business, helping them identify 
the most cost-effective delivery method for 
their needs, and optimizing their packaging. 
Everywhere we operate, our entrepreneurial 
customers count on the connectivity we provide to expand their businesses across 
borders, seize niche opportunities, and 
shape the global economic future.
For details about our programs and 
resources designed to support women, 
minority-owned small businesses, and 
entrepreneurs around the world, see our 
FedEx Cares Global Entrepreneurship  
website.
Small Business Grant Contest 
Our FedEx Small Business Grant Contest  
awarded more than $250,000 in grants 
and prizes as well as more than $20,000 
in FedEx Office® print and business 
services to 12 passionate entrepreneurs 
in the U.S. during FY19. The U.S. Grand Prize winner Lux Blox provides building 
blocks that replicate nature at a molecular 
level, allowing kids – and adults – to build 
structures for fun and learning. The blocks 
are also being used in STEM educational 
programs where they offer a unique tool for 
exploring engineering and design principles. 
Enbois Originals, a 2019 Bronze Prize 
winner, creates handmade accessories 
that emphasize sustainable materials and 
a commitment to reforestation, supporting 
the planting of a tree in Haiti with each 
purchase. And Moka Origins, a 2019 Bronze 
Prize winner, drives empowerment in rural 
African communities through a coffee and 
cocoa farm in Cameroon that provides local 
farmers with good wages generated from 
the sale of coffee and chocolate products.
Over $800,000 has been awarded in the 
U.S. since we began the FedEx Small 
Business Grant Contest in 2013, and 
contests are available in 10 countries.  
Our support of these passionate business 
people goes beyond prize money.  
For instance, the Entrepreneur Advisory 
Board – suggested by a contest winner 
– includes 10 small-business owners 
who advise FedEx on ways to help small 
businesses, while allowing opportunities 
for members to share best practices and 
collaborate with each other.
Supporting Job Growth
Small and diverse businesses support 
job growth and are engines of their local 
economies. They can be powerful job 
creators as well, providing up to 80% of 
new job growth in some countries. Within 
our own operations, FedEx Express, FedEx 
Ground, FedEx Freight, and FedEx Custom Critical rely on independent businesses 
for certain pickup-and-delivery, linehaul 
transportation, and other services. These 
contracts support small businesses and 
local economies, employing tens of 
thousands of people worldwide. By giving 
entrepreneurs everywhere the tools they 
need to prosper alongside our own growth, 
FedEx helps smaller businesses improve 
lives, boost economies, and build thriving 
communities. 
For more about how we work with 
suppliers, see Our Global Supply Chain .
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3030
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Enabling E-Commerce, Expanding What’s Possible
E-commerce has become a fundamental part of retailing and 
profoundly changed how consumers make purchases. As online 
shopping becomes even more essential to hundreds of millions of 
people, whether they are purchasing perishable foods, household 
staples, or luxury goods, the last mile of delivery – where and  
how they receive packages – is increasingly important. 
Worldwide, the growth of e-commerce has 
the power to create jobs, grow business  
and elevate communities. Together with  
our customers, we are working to make  
this possible through a suite of solutions 
that enable us to deliver at the right speed, 
the right price, and the right convenience.
Collaboration, Not Competition
At FedEx, we collaborate with customers 
to help them meet the increasing demands 
of their customers. We are committed to 
delivering satisfying and unique experiences 
to shoppers in a way that supports – and 
never competes with – our customers’ own 
brands. Our innovative technologies and 
logistics solutions enable our customers 
to meet growing shopper expectations 
and compete effectively in the digital age 
through solutions that create outstanding 
shopping experiences.
We serve merchants of varying sizes and 
experience levels selling directly to end 
consumers, from those just beginning to 
explore e-commerce to long-time online 
merchants looking to expand market  
share. We understand that, whatever  
our customers’ business models, sizes,  
or locations, they share a common goal  to understand and meet demanding 
shopper expectations. It is our aim  
to help them provide a better shopping 
experience for their customers.
Empowering Small Business
In many parts of the world, small- and 
medium-sized businesses are important 
economic engines, creating jobs and 
supporting healthy local communities.  
Our portfolio of cost-effective, convenient, 
and increasingly customized shipping 
options for new entrepreneurs and 
established small businesses helps  
these valued customers grow and thrive. 
We support small businesses success 
through resources like the FedEx Small 
Business Center  and recently added 
E-Commerce Center, which provides 
personalized guidance and tips specific  
to the challenges of selling online. 
Innovative, Flexible  
E-Commerce Solutions
From online shopping to shipping and 
delivery, seamless connections matter more 
than ever. But as e-commerce continues 
to shape the market, we are working 
to innovate further for our customers, 
balancing the need for speed and security with impacts on the environment. We are 
streamlining connections between our 
customers and their shoppers by growing 
our retail network, increasing delivery hours 
and days, and innovating for same-day 
delivery and urban mobility.
Expanding Our  
Convenience Network
We continue to expand our convenience 
network to help customers and businesses 
address e-commerce needs through greater 
access to FedEx services. In 2019, we 
joined forces with Dollar General to provide 
more shopper convenience, especially in 
rural communities where retailers might 
not have physical stores and last-mile home 
delivery is expensive and carries greater 
vehicle-related environmental impacts. 
By the end of 2020, consumers will have 
easy access to FedEx dropoff and pickup 
services at more than 8,000 Dollar General 
stores across the U.S., with plans to extend 
the program in the future.
Couple that with our existing presence 
in Walgreens, Kroger and Albertsons 
locations, along with our commitment 
to place up to 500 new FedEx Office 
locations within selected Walmart stores, 
and the total number of retail locations in 
the U.S. FedEx Retail Convenience Network 
will be approximately 62,000. This means 
that the percentage of U.S. customers 
within five miles of a FedEx hold retail 
location will increase from 80% to over 
90% in 2020.
In Europe, we have introduced FedEx 
services at 2,500 new retail locations in 
the United Kingdom. This complements 
our existing alliance with Mondial Relay in 
France, Spain, Belgium, and Luxembourg, 
bringing the total number of customer 
pickup points to more than 10,000. 
In FY20, we anticipate extending our 
geographic reach and service options in 
our largest e-commerce markets across 
Europe, helping to manage costs while 
reducing environmental impacts.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3131
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Enabling E-Commerce – Expanding What’s Possible (Continued) 
Providing Extra Hours  
and Days for Delivery
The majority of online orders are placed 
after 4 p.m. In response to this, we have 
introduced FedEx Extra Hours. Consumers 
can place orders as late as midnight with 
eligible retailers who, in turn, can fulfill 
those orders through FedEx Express 
with next-day local delivery and two-day 
shipping in the continental U.S. This 
service enables store-to-store transfers, 
which enhances the consumer experience 
and reduces emissions by relying on 
local delivery rather than transportation 
from a distant customer warehouse. This 
also helps to transition brick-and-mortar 
retailers into e-commerce and expand  
our customers’ modes of selling.
In addition, FedEx Ground expanded 
residential deliveries to seven days per week,  
year-round in early 2020. This benefits 
customers who cannot be home to sign 
for packages during the work week, 
addressing package theft concerns and 
reducing the vehicle emissions associated 
with delivery reattempts. 
Exploring Alternative  
Delivery Approaches
Increasingly congested urban centers 
require creative approaches to ensure timely 
and safe deliveries. Testing has taken place 
in several cities for Roxo™, the FedEx 
SameDay Bot, which holds promise for 
creating an economical and environmentally 
friendly alternative to motorized vehicles, 
delivering to areas that motorized vehicles 
may or may not be able to access due to 
congestion or regulation. In 2019 we also 
completed our first-ever drone delivery  to a residence with our collaborator,  
Wing Aviation LLC. And in several European 
cities where narrow roads and other 
challenges make delivery more difficult, 
we are conducting pilot projects to identify 
the best solutions for accessing congested 
cities without adding to traffic and 
environmental impacts.
For more about Roxo,™ the FedEx SameDay 
Bot, and drone delivery, see the Driving 
Innovation  section in the Economy chapte r.
For more about urban mobility solutions, 
see the Vehicle Efficiency  section in the 
Environment chapter . 
Delivering Bulky Items  
Right Inside the Home
As buyers become more accustomed to 
ordering large and expensive goods online, 
FedEx is equipped to help make the process 
convenient and dependable. Our new 
FedEx Freight Direct service, introduced 
in 2019, offers the delivery of heavy, bulky 
items, such as furniture and appliances, 
through the door. This service represents 
the first time FedEx Freight has delivered 
into residences and creates opportunities 
for delivering directly to a room of choice 
inside a business. At the same time, we 
are expanding the FedEx Ground oversized 
package network to approximately 40 
facilities by peak shipping season in 2020. 
Steps Toward a Circular Economy 
As the e-commerce market grows, so 
does the market for returns – up 35% since 
2015. Between our continually expanding 
retail network and extended delivery hours 
and days, shoppers have more convenient options than ever for taking care of returns. 
This creates a better experience for our 
customers’, provides them with the added 
assurance that our transportation logistics 
expertise will make sure returns reach 
their destinations safely and on time, and 
represents an important step toward a 
circular economy. In addition, our reverse 
logistics capabilities help our customers 
eliminate waste streams by identifying 
the optimal disposition method for 
each returned product, including vendor 
restocking, liquidation, recycling, or salvaging.
More broadly, we are establishing the 
infrastructure to support the emerging 
circular economy by enabling more efficient 
returns. Making it easier and more convenient 
for our customers to return unwanted goods and get them back into inventory helps to 
keep those items out of landfills, which is 
central to circularity. In addition, as more 
manufacturers shift to circular economy 
business models, our efficient return 
capabilities enable their customers to 
efficiently return products that have reached 
the end of life so they can be remanufactured 
into new items. FedEx Return Technology  
and FedEx Supply Chain Reverse Logistics 
& Returns  capabilities lay the foundation for 
efficient returns, and ultimately for a circular 
economy. Our FedEx Supply Chain and 
FedEx Forward Depots divisions also 
provide technology customers with 
diagnostics testing, repair, refurbishment, 
and recycling services, helping to keep 
electronic waste out of landfills. 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3232
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Driving Innovation 
Ten Years of Quality  
Driven Management
Quality Driven Management , or QDM, 
is our unique quality philosophy and 
methodology based on the belief that 
customers define quality. In place for a 
decade across FedEx, QDM has become 
a hallmark of how we work and how we 
deliver innovation to our customers and 
value to our shareowners. It is deeply 
embedded in our culture, driving superior business and sustainability performance, 
while improving safety and eliminating 
waste, cost, and effort.  
Over the past 10 years, QDM has helped 
us address a variety of challenges and 
opportunities – from one-day projects 
that fix operational inefficiencies  
to multi-year initiatives that lead  
to major innovations and a more  
sustainable business.Innovation has been part of the FedEx 
DNA since day one. Today, we continue 
to push the boundaries of what’s possible 
to address business challenges and the 
evolving needs of customers, especially 
in the ever-changing landscape of 
e-commerce. We believe that the essence 
of innovation is having unique insight to 
unmet customer needs, and solving those 
needs through world-class, customer-
focused service and experience design. 
As a global leader in transportation and 
technology, we pursue the efficiency, 
safety, and environmental benefits of  
next-generation innovation for our 
operations and team members. 
Our Operations Planning and Technology 
Steering Committee sets the strategic 
direction and fosters enterprise visibility, 
collaboration, and innovation that improves 
safety and efficiency in our operations.  
This group also provides thought leadership 
and monitors the industry on topics such  
as the impact and opportunities of 
autonomous vehicles on last-mile,  
in-facility, and on-road applications. 
Our Operations Technology Council is a 
cross-operating company, multi-function 
group reporting to the Operations Planning 
and Technology Steering Committee 
that provides oversight and standards of 
technologies used in front-line operations. 
Through our expertise and partnerships,  
the Council also researches, develops, tests, 
and implements advanced technologies 
within operations that enable us to meet 
the ever-changing needs of our customers, 
lead in the growing e-commerce space, 
address road congestion and urban logistics 
challenges, and reduce our environmental footprint. The Council focuses on areas such 
as asset tracking, wireless communications, 
and robotics and autonomous vehicles. 
Current efforts that will benefit our 
environmental impact focus on optimizing 
space and equipment, reducing waste, and 
providing visibility. For example, machine 
vision, sensors, and artificial intelligence 
provide our operations with information 
about customer-loaded trailers, reducing 
unnecessary trips and fuel consumption. 
We also leverage the same technology 
to identify packages that need special 
handling. Emerging robotics that leverage 
battery technology in our facilities and 
yards will also help optimize work, while 
likely reducing our carbon footprint. Now 
and in the future, we will continue creating, 
testing, and launching research to advance 
transportation, logistics, and e-commerce 
solutions to improve safety and efficiency 
for our team members, our customers,  
and the public. 
Optimizing Last-Mile Delivery 
Increasingly congested urban centers 
require creative approaches to ensure timely 
and safe deliveries. In addition, demand 
for same-day delivery is growing, and 
more than 60% of merchants’ customers 
live within three miles of a store location, 
demonstrating the opportunity for  
on-demand, hyper-local delivery.
FedEx is taking steps to increase the 
efficiency and lower the cost of residential 
deliveries. For example, beginning in 
March 2020, FedEx Express is contracting 
with FedEx Ground for the transport and 
delivery of select day-definite, residential 
FedEx Express shipments.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3333
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Driving Innovation (continued) 
We developed Roxo to help retailers make  
same-day deliveries to businesses and residences 
using autonomous technology. In FY19, we began 
public testing in several cities.the FedEx SameDay
BotMeet Roxo ,™
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3434
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
RoxoTM, the FedEx SameDay Bot, has 
100 pounds of payload capacity and the 
ability to navigate rough terrain, including 
hills and small flights of stairs. Roxo uses 
cameras and sensors to detect surroundings 
and navigate safely, efficiently, and in 
compliance with road rules, whether 
operating on a road, bike lane, or sidewalk. 
The all-electric Bot consumes no fossil fuel 
and produces no emissions itself.
The cutting-edge Bot will enable retailers 
to accept orders from nearby customers 
and deliver them directly to customers’ 
homes or businesses the same day. 
While initial testing has involved deliveries 
between selected FedEx Office locations, 
we are collaborating with companies such 
as AutoZone, Lowe’s, Pizza Hut, Target, 
Walgreens, and Walmart to help assess 
their autonomous delivery needs. 
Roxo is being developed in collaboration 
with DEKA Development & Research 
Corp., which built upon the power base of 
its iBot, an advanced mobility device for 
the disabled population with more than 10 
million hours of reliable, real-world operation. 
An important added benefit as we continue 
developing and scaling the Bot for use 
across the FedEx network is the anticipated 
decrease in the cost of the iBot base and 
resulting savings that could ultimately 
benefit disabled users. In this way, Roxo not 
only represents a milestone in addressing 
the complexities of safe, environmentally 
friendly, same day, last-mile delivery for 
the growing e-commerce market, it could 
also help veterans, the elderly, and other 
disabled individuals who may use the iBot 
advanced mobility device. See how Roxo 
works in this video . Driving Innovation (continued) 
Roxo joins robotics already at work for 
FedEx Ground, where driverless tuggers  
are used to move packages in our facilities. 
These autonomous tuggers know the  
shape of the building where they operate 
and include sensors to safely transport 
bulky packages on tow carts through  
our hub facilities. 
Large e-commerce deliveries represent the 
fastest-growing portion of FedEx Ground 
package volume, and new technologies 
such as autonomous tuggers help to handle 
them safely. Using automated tuggers  
for repetitive, simple tasks also allows  
team members to focus on high-value, 
skilled work.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3535
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Driving Innovation (continued) 
In 2019, a drone completed a scheduled 
commercial residential delivery of a FedEx 
Express package to a home in Virginia, 
in partnership with Wing Aviation LLC 
and as part of the U.S. Department of 
Transportation’s Unmanned Aircraft 
Systems IPP. The event marked the 
launch of the first scheduled, commercial 
residential drone delivery service and the 
first scheduled e-commerce delivery via 
drone delivery trial in the U.S. The pilot 
program is currently underway.
The drone features autonomous GPS 
navigation, reaches speeds of up to 65 
miles per hour, and delivers within a 6-mile 
range, all with zero emissions. The pilot 
program also includes Walgreens – an 
important partner in our retail convenience 
network – allowing program participants to order health and wellness products 
through Wing Aviation LLC’s delivery app. 
Drone delivery could increase customer 
convenience and could be particularly 
beneficial for ill or housebound recipients 
who are unable to get to a store.
We are also participating in the U.S. 
Department of Transportation’s Unmanned 
Aircraft System IPP in Memphis, Tennessee, 
at the Memphis-Shelby County Airport 
(Memphis IPP). The focus of the Memphis 
IPP is on aircraft inspections, airport 
security, and safety inspection research and 
development. The Memphis IPP is working 
closely with the FAA to further develop 
policy and guidance for unmanned aircraft 
system integration on and near airports.Delivery  PossibleMaking Drone  
Watch the drone delivery  
in this video .Our continued search for newer, better, and safer ways to deliver  
the world to our customers’ doorsteps has led us to drone delivery, 
which holds promise for the last mile of residential package delivery, 
especially for urgent same-day deliveries, shipments to customers  
in rural or semi-rural areas, and other exceptional delivery needs.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3636
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Driving Innovation (continued) 
Supply Chain Advancements
Increasingly, FedEx technologies provide 
value-added logistics to give customers 
state-of-the-art tracking benefits and help 
them safely and securely move sensitive 
items through their supply chain, across 
borders, and around the world.
Blockchain and Emerging Technologies
Blockchain and related emerging 
technologies will transform supply chain 
logistics in the years to come, which is why 
we are a charter member of the Blockchain 
in Transport Alliance and the Blockchain 
Research Institute, actively working across 
the industry to develop data standards.  
We expect that blockchain will soon provide 
a secure global ledger of transactions for 
tracking provenance, helping to ensure 
traceability of an item all the way from the 
point of manufacture to shipping, and finally, 
to consumption by the end user. In turn, 
this will help our customers ensure product 
authenticity throughout the supply chain 
and will reduce friction across borders. 
For blockchain to be transformative, many 
organizations must collaborate. We are a 
global thought leader committed to building 
out this technology openly with the support 
of suppliers and regulatory bodies. 
Sensor Technology to  
Serve Diverse Operations
Cold chain packaging, monitoring, alerts, 
and other interventions help to ensure 
customer shipping needs are met through 
customized and off-the-shelf solutions. 
SenseAware®, a FedEx innovation, is key 
to meeting these needs. SenseAware 
offers customers location-based visibility, 
along with customer environmental data such as temperature, humidity, light 
exposure, and geo-fencing alerts to meet 
our customers’ critical and time-sensitive 
needs. We are rolling out new technology 
as we expand our SenseAware portfolio, 
which includes Bluetooth-enabled sensors 
that FedEx Express is testing as a way to 
locate packages and assets both during 
transportation and within warehouses.
In Europe, SenseAware-compatible network 
access points were installed in all but one of 
the major FedEx Express stations and hubs 
during 2019. The remaining SenseAware-
compatible infrastructure will continue 
being rolled out in Europe through 2021. 
Piloting and limited rollout of new courier 
handheld devices, which are compatible 
with SenseAware, will also begin in  
FedEx Express Europe stations in 2020. 
In 2016, FedEx Express in Europe began 
using Ambient, a temperature-controlled 
delivery system designed to meet customer 
needs for temperature-controlled shipping 
from their warehouses all the way to the 
final destination, such as pharmacies or 
hospitals. As of FY19, the system, which 
includes temperature sensors and Good 
Distribution Practices-compliant vehicles 
and facilities through the entire delivery 
network, can deliver to 50% of all 
pharmacies and hospitals in Germany.  
We will continue to further expand the 
service to full coverage of the country.Environmental Efficiency 
Technology helps us connect people with 
possibilities in new and exciting ways. It also 
helps us enhance environmental efficiency 
so we use less aircraft and vehicle fuel, 
generate fewer emissions, minimize waste, 
and reduce overall impacts.
Gull Wing Technology  
for Increased Freight Volume
Our growing business constantly challenges 
us to find new ways to increase freight 
volume without decreasing aircraft 
efficiency or increasing costs. FedEx 
Express worked with customers to uncover 
an innovative solution that led to a patented, 
new-to-the-industry lower deck aircraft 
pallet, the Gull Wing. By maximizing aircraft 
capacity while minimizing wasted space, 
Gull Wing technology is expected to offer 
a positive annual global impact while 
enhancing aircraft efficiency.
Optimizing Packaging
The experts in our FedEx Packaging Lab and 
other departments are helping to support 
development of state-of-the-art, sustainable 
packaging solutions for customers without 
compromising quality or performance. For 
example, as more consumers order meal 
delivery kits, our customers increasingly 
need packaging that provides reliable 
temperature control. In an innovative project 
with Otter Products’ Liviri Fresh product 
line for food items and Liviri Vino for wine 
shipments, we are supporting the testing 
and development of a reusable food and 
drink container that significantly reduces 
the need for material input. Liviri Fresh food 
containers and Liviri Vino wine containers 
have a reuse lifespan of two years.Similarly, we are working with a supplier 
to implement a reusable, modular plastic 
crate intended for high-value items that 
require condition monitoring (tilt, tip, shock, 
vibration, light, location, etc). Made by LARC 
(Logistics Advanced Research Center), the 
crate can be configured and reconfigured 
depending on an item’s dimensions, rather 
than requiring the manufacture of different 
crates for different items. Testing also  
has begun on the use of compostable, 
starch-based packaging materials.
Platooning for Environmental  
and Safety Benefits
“Platooning” leverages technology to allow 
trucks with drivers to follow one another 
closely (in a safe and controlled manner) to 
improve fuel efficiency and reduce traffic 
congestion. FedEx has engaged in testing 
with Volvo Trucks, which has developed 
communication technology that helps 
reduce braking reaction time and enables 
vehicles to automatically match each other’s 
speed and braking. For more, see the 
Environment  chapter.
Route Optimization
In FY19, we further enhanced our GPS 
tracking system to give drivers audible 
turn-by-turn routes, which allows them 
to put their undivided attention on driving 
safely. The new system has been mounted 
to about 30% of FedEx Express delivery 
vehicles so far, with plans to roll out the 
system to all FedEx Express vehicles 
operating in the U.S. The system also 
provides drivers with the most efficient 
route, saving time, optimizing driving 
distance, and reducing emissions.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3737
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
By coupling our unparalleled transportation 
network with the world’s digital network, 
working to address trade barriers, and 
facilitating more inclusive trade, we enable 
manufacturers, retailers, craftspeople, 
and consumers to engage in the global 
economy. FedEx plays a critical role in 
expanding trade, helping to build nimble 
supply chains, and delivering local products 
and services to customers around the 
world. We believe everyone benefits when 
it is easier to bring new ideas and products 
to the global market.
Global Advocacy on Trade Policy
At the global level, we advocate for 
ambitious trade agendas with the 
potential to power business and optimize 
opportunities for our customers and 
our company. This includes advocating 
for public policies in the U.S. and other 
countries that support the economic future 
of our company, customers, shareowners, 
and team members. Given the importance 
of access to global supply chains to U.S. 
competitiveness and jobs, it is important 
to maintain a policy environment that 
encourages free trade and to support 
solutions that address trade barriers.  
We believe that a zero-tariff, zero-subsidy 
global trade environment remains the most 
powerful economic growth engine, and 
we will continue to push for policies that 
stimulate rather than depress global trade.With a global government and regulatory 
affairs structure that aligns and consolidates 
our regional approach to regulatory and 
policy advocacy, we are positioned to track 
trade-related developments across key 
markets and to support global trade through 
advocacy work and free trade agreements. 
Our commitments include promoting 
greater customs efficiency to enable 
business growth, and leveraging multilateral 
agreements, such as the World Trade 
Organization’s Trade Facilitation Agreement, 
which can reduce administrative costs for 
small- and medium-sized companies – the 
businesses most affected by complicated 
customs procedures around the world.
Customer Solutions  
for Healthy Businesses 
At the local level, we provide customers 
with the expert logistics and trade support 
needed to simplify logistics, drive growth, 
streamline operations, and boost efficiency. 
Our supply chain solutions, specialty 
transportation, cross-border e-commerce 
technology services, customs brokerage, 
and trade management tools allow FedEx 
customers to choose the capabilities best 
suited to their business needs. The result 
is that we connect supply chains globally 
by handling more than 7 million customs 
transactions annually for customers of  
all sizes. We are also a leading provider  
of North American customs brokerage. Enabling Global Trade 
Our specialty companies within FedEx 
Logistics are adept at helping customers 
navigate increasingly complex customs 
brokerage and trade rules and procedures. 
This includes simplifying international 
shipping by helping customers manage 
imports and exports over ocean, air 
or ground, optimizing reach, flexibility, 
cost savings and reliability, along with 
opportunities for environmental  
efficiencies in shipping. 
Applying Technology to Enable Trade
As e-commerce and cross-border 
shipments continue to grow, we offer  
global shopping cart technologies, including 
localized currency and payment options, 
scalable fulfillment services, e-commerce 
transportation options, and trade 
compliance tools and data that help 
customers manage e-commerce across Advancements in transportation, technology, and innovation all  
work together to multiply the benefits of commerce and trade.  
We operate at the center of these connections, enabling opportunities 
for progress, growth, and advancement around the world.
borders. Our efficient warehouse 
management and reverse logistics  
services give customers a comprehensive 
solution for returns management,  
enabling high-volume merchants and 
e-tailers to quickly and easily improve  
their customer experience.
As a global company, we are also investing 
more resources into export control 
technology and expertise to navigate 
complex and evolving global trade 
environments for our customers.  
For instance, blockchain technology makes 
it possible to create and share an encrypted, 
unchangeable digital ledger of transactions 
where a trusted custodial chain is needed. 
In this way, blockchain could well become 
an essential tool to track goods and reduce 
friction and fraud in the supply chain, 
especially for cross-border shipments.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
3838
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
All of our suppliers are expected to uphold 
the principles in our Code of Conduct and 
aspire to meet our other CSR commitments. 
As we grow our business through 
acquisitions, we also work to embed 
these principles through clearly articulated 
expectations, awareness raising, contract 
language, and evaluations.
Managing Supply Chain  
Risk and Opportunity
Our strategy starts with a unified 
approach through the FedEx Services 
Supplier Relationship Management 
(SRM) team. This team guides sourcing 
and supplier relationship management 
globally through a consolidated set of 
policies, tools, and governance practices. 
The team’s responsibilities also extend to 
supplier risk management, diversity, and 
sustainability. The team collaborates with 
FedEx internal stakeholders across the 
enterprise to drive sustainable practices 
into our supply chain. In addition, we 
maintain an internal Sourcing Sustainability 
Impact Team that shares learnings, best 
practices, and benchmarking findings for 
continuous improvement. A commitment 
to developing trusted stakeholder 
partnerships includes frequent meetings 
and cross-functional engagement, as well 
as two-way feedback to make sure the 
right sustainable products are applied  
as intended across business functions.We identify and manage critical supply 
chain risks through enterprise-wide policies 
and procedures, such as assessing and 
adjusting our supply chain to reduce our 
carbon footprint and enhancing reverse 
logistics capabilities to support customer 
returns. Our suppliers work closely with us 
to mitigate risks, especially those inherent 
in extended supply chains. We mitigate the 
most significant risks by focusing on those 
suppliers critical to our business success. 
Our Diverse Suppliers
Beyond our commitment to sourcing more 
sustainable products and services, we help 
to lift economies by investing in people 
and communities where we live and work. 
This includes seeking diverse suppliers and 
strengthening our supply chain by sourcing 
from small, minority- and women-owned 
businesses. During FY19, e-commerce 
played a larger role than ever in our ability  
to support even more diverse suppliers. 
In our U.S. operations, we make the most 
of alliances, industry associations, learning 
opportunities, and other events to help 
entrepreneurs build capacity and develop 
their full potential. In FY19, we procured 
$12.3 billion in goods and services from 
diverse and small-business suppliers in  
the U.S. Of that $12.3 billion, 8% was spent 
with women-owned businesses and 12% 
was spent with minority-owned businesses.  
The remaining 80% was spent with other 
small-business suppliers.Our Global Supply Chain 
28%
Spending directed toward 
diverse and small-business 
suppliers increased by 28%  
in FY19 over FY18As e-commerce continues to grow dramatically, we are responding 
with supply chain solutions that support even faster, safer, and more 
efficient movement of goods domestically and across borders.
3939
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
The SRM team also leads efforts to improve 
sustainability in our supply chain through  
a variety of best practices and tools. 
• Sustainability-related questionnaires are 
included in our requests for qualifications 
and proposals (RFx) in core categories.  
A database tracks adherence and 
supports a rigorous, consistent process. 
• Sustainability-related contract language 
is included in 99.6% of our key supplier 
contracts as of FY19. This language 
addresses supplier performance in 
environmental, social, labor, and human 
rights areas, including child and forced 
labor and is included in all new or 
amended supplier agreements. 
• During FY19, sustainability criteria was 
included in 100% of scorecards used to 
evaluate suppliers. 
• Training, awareness raising, and a focus 
on continuous improvement among SRM 
team members help to institutionalize 
sustainable supply chain practices. 
• Mechanisms are in place to ensure 
sustainable products are used as intended 
to deliver the expected sustainability 
benefits. The SRM team provides FedEx 
operating companies with a convenient 
system to submit any sourcing concerns 
— such as receiving an incorrect item or  
a product that cannot be used as planned.Our efforts to source sustainable solutions 
include ways to improve efficiency and 
support innovation. For example, in FY19, 
we conducted an enterprise initiative to 
transform our approach to waste and 
recycling across approximately 4,000 
locations. The Sourcing team worked 
with our operating companies to identify 
a solution that streamlines our processes 
and provides better monitoring of our 
waste stream. Also in FY19, we were 
recognized by the Sustainable Purchasing 
Leadership Council (SPLC) for our approach 
to overcoming the sourcing challenges 
inherent in the electrification of our 
vehicle fleet. 
Best Practices  
in Sustainable Purchasing
In FY19, we continued our involvement 
in the SPLC, of which we are a founding 
member. We are actively involved in the 
Strategic Advisory Committee and in 
promoting the use of SPLC guidance by 
other companies. Our best-practice sourcing 
criteria and metrics for sustainability are 
informed by SPLC and customized for our 
business. Leveraging external platforms for 
a more sustainable supply chain extends to 
FedEx Express International as well, where 
sourcing aligns with ISO 20400 guidance 
for sustainable procurement. The program 
includes supplier risk screening to identify categories of goods and regions known to 
present inherent risks, along with training 
and guidelines for sustainable procurement. 
Future plans for our international 
operations include providing buyers with 
a standardized set of RFx questions for 
sustainable procurement and information 
to support specialized purchases, such as 
electric vehicles.
For more about our performance in sourcing 
to support sustainability and diversity, see 
the Data Appendix .Driving Sustainability in the Supply Chain 
86%
of potential and current sourcing-
managed suppliers were 
screened with sustainability  
RFx questions during FY19,  
an increase of 8% over the 
previous yearEach year, our key suppliers are evaluated and scored on a suite  
of criteria, including business continuity, data security, and many 
other metrics. 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4040
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
People
Multiplying Potential
$15.3m
Team members received a combined 
$15.3 million in tuition assistance to 
further their education in FY19. Across FedEx, we are more than 475,000 team members 
strong. We are all united by our commitment to the 
corporate philosophy we call People-Service-Profit, 
or PSP. This concise statement reflects the shared 
principles that govern every FedEx activity, every day, 
everywhere we work.
4141
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report The three interconnected elements of 
People-Service-Profit (PSP) are essential to 
our success. Our focus on people produces 
outstanding service that meets the highest 
customer expectations. This, in turn, gives 
us a competitive edge so we can win  
more business and become more profitable. 
And profitability is what funds our future 
and allows us to reward our people.  
When we apply PSP to deliver on the  
Purple Promise – to make every FedEx 
experience outstanding – we position  
FedEx to multiply opportunities for 
customers, businesses, communities,  
and especially our team members.
PSP in Action 
The Purple Promise represents our shared 
commitment that helps earn the trust and 
loyalty of customers and makes FedEx  
a great place to work. Empowering team 
members to leverage PSP and deliver 
on the Purple Promise requires ongoing 
investment in our workforce. This includes 
providing a safe and inclusive workplace, 
development opportunities that enable 
people to realize their full potential, 
and innovative benefits that help team 
members maintain health and well-being. 
Our operating companies are united by 
a longstanding commitment to the PSP 
philosophy. Each provides programs and 
resources to best meet the needs of their 
team members, while emphasizing Quality 
Driven Management and an enduring 
commitment to the Purple Promise. Our Approach
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4242
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Across the enterprise, our Safety Above All 
philosophy is reinforced through rigorous 
policies, strong team member education 
and engagement, and ongoing investments 
in industry-leading technology designed to 
prevent accidents. Collectively, our efforts 
are designed to ensure the safety of our 
people and the communities we serve. 
We measure and manage operational 
safety daily, just as we manage every other 
business function for quality outcomes. 
This approach delivers strong performance 
in the key safety metric we use to track 
performance – lost time injury rate. We 
recorded an uptick in that metric during 
FY19, primarily due to an increase in 
our North America operations. We have 
investigated the root causes of this 
increase and are working to improve safety 
performance going forward through new 
training methods, additional implementation 
of industry-leading technology, and 
initiatives to make sure our Safety Above 
All approach is reflected in every action. 
Regular team member engagement 
in safe operations is also key. In FY19, 
we implemented several initiatives that 
surfaced as a result of the first FedEx 
Express Aviation Safety Culture Survey in 
FY18, including outstanding safety ideas 
from team members themselves. One 
key example is a new device provided to 
team members who work alone, such 
as an airport ground service technician or aircraft mechanic. These and other 
”lone workers” wear the device so they 
have an easy way to summon help in an 
emergency. This simple but powerful safety 
measure provides a significant degree of 
added protection for those operating alone 
on ramps and at other locations. Initially 
implemented by FedEx Express, the device 
could help team members working alone 
in virtually any operating company feel 
more safe.
The second FedEx Express Aviation Safety 
Culture Survey, conducted in FY20, found 
that team members remain overwhelmingly 
positive about the safety culture at FedEx 
Express and the opportunity to offer 
feedback on improving safety performance. 
We are assessing the value of expanding 
the survey across the entire FedEx 
operation in the future.
For more about our FY19 and year-over-year 
safety performance, see the Data Appendix .Safety Above All 
In FedEx culture, Safety Above All is a fundamental value –  
as well as a priority we all share – and we live this commitment  
by incorporating safety principles into every aspect of our business. 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4343
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Vehicle Safety 
1. Purchase the most sustainable 
technology currently available, which 
makes our fleet more fuel efficient. 
2. Purchase the highest level of safety 
technology available to make the 
driver safer and more ergonomically 
comfortable, while increasing the safety 
of our vehicles for other drivers and 
pedestrians as well.This approach to safety extends to our 
global vehicle fleet of more than 180,000 
vehicles, including both on-road and non-
road equipment at FedEx Express, FedEx 
Freight, and FedEx Ground. Some of our 
many standard safety technologies include 
collision avoidance with active braking  
to avoid other vehicles and pedestrians,  
and lane departure avoidance. Video event data recorder, or VEDR, 
technology is in use at some of our 
operating companies to enhance safety 
for drivers and others on the road. VEDR 
technology can be deployed in a range 
of vehicles, including tractors, hostlers 
(specialized vehicles used to move trucks 
and trailers on FedEx properties), or vans. 
These systems also offer various uses. 
Certain VEDR systems are forward-facing, 
capturing the external environment, while 
others also monitor driver behaviors inside 
the cab. Among other benefits, the cameras 
capture close calls, such as when a driver 
brakes hard or turns suddenly to avoid a 
collision, and gives drivers and managers a 
chance to review what went well and what 
could have been improved. We are also 
exploring autonomous driving technology 
to further enhance safety for drivers 
and others on the road, as well as team 
members in our operating facilities.Some of our approaches combine new 
technology with driver practices for even 
better safety outcomes. At several FedEx 
operating companies, drivers and couriers 
face unique challenges, such as not driving 
the same type of vehicle each day or 
navigating and parking in congested cities 
that require close-quarter maneuvers.
These situations require additional training 
for drivers to become familiar with the 
differences among vehicles and to maintain 
the same high level of safe operation 
regardless of vehicle type or driving 
environment. At FedEx Express in Canada, 
for instance, the introduction of peer-to-peer 
training with long-time employees who 
champion and share tips for safe driving  
has proven to be a valuable supplement  
to regular trainer-led learning. 
98%
of FedEx Freight road tractors 
now include roll stability, forward 
collision mitigation systems,  
and lane departure technology$9m+
invested in FedEx Cares road  
safety programs in 90 countries 
since FY16Our vehicle fleet includes some of the safest, most innovative 
equipment in the world. Whenever we procure new vehicles 
for use anywhere in the world, we strive to: 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4444
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Vehicle Safety (continued)
Innovations in Vehicle  
Safety at FedEx Express
Implementing the latest safety practices 
and innovations is key to continued safety 
performance in the face of our significant 
business growth. For smaller FedEx 
Express vehicles, we are testing cameras 
that use artificial intelligence to provide 
alerts that can prevent distracted driving, 
and expect to begin implementation  
in FY20.
In FY19, FedEx Express incorporated 
several new road safety technologies to 
make sure all drivers have access to the 
latest innovations to keep them and those 
around them safe:
1. Audible turn-by-turn directions provided 
by a small device installed in the delivery 
vehicle prevent drivers from having to  
look at a screen for navigation assistance.
2. GPS tracking on all 30,000 pickup and 
delivery vehicles in the U.S. allows a 
central facility to view where a driver had 
to park, the length of walk to deliver a 
package and any obstacles encountered. 
This information is then used to identify 
the safest places to park, minimize 
obstacles, and make sure drivers know 
the safest route. It also provides an 
additional tool for accident investigations. 3. Autonomous safety features such as 
forward collision and lane departure 
warnings, forward collision avoidance 
mitigation systems, and speed limiters 
have been installed.
4. Auto-docking technology was piloted in 
FY18. The technology is being evaluated 
for use in 1,000 airport ground service 
vehicles to help operators maneuver  
the last 3 meters toward the plane.
Safe Driving Recognition
Five FedEx drivers earned top honors as 
National Champions in their respective 
driving classes at the 2019 National Truck 
Driving Championships and National Step 
Van Driving Championships. For the third 
year in a row, a driver representing a FedEx 
operating company was named Grand 
Champion, and a FedEx Express driver was 
named National Rookie of the Year. A total 
of 176 FedEx drivers participated. Over the 
past 17 years, FedEx drivers have earned six 
National Grand Champion titles, 62 National 
Championships, and nine National Rookie of 
the Year titles.State-of-the-Art Tractor-Trailer 
Safety at FedEx Freight
FedEx Freight, which handles 105,000 
shipments daily, is an industry leader in 
truck safety. During FY19, we achieved 
100% compliance with our requirement to 
install electronic logging and VEDR systems 
inside all FedEx Freight tractors, as well 
as all FedEx Freight box trucks. We also 
reached 98% compliance with our policy 
to implement three key safety technologies 
– roll stability, forward collision mitigation 
systems, and lane departure technology – in 
all FedEx Freight road tractors, which drive 
the most miles in the FedEx Freight fleet.In addition, about 80% of all FedEx Freight 
box trucks now have a visual backup 
camera. We also introduced additional blind 
spot detection equipment to city and road 
tractors and box trucks in FY19. A camera 
in the curbside mirrors shows drivers what 
is to the right of the tractor, helping them 
address the large “no zone” associated 
with tractor trailers that can prevent a driver 
from being able to see a vehicle in the next 
lane. We were an early adopter of all these 
technologies in the transportation industry 
– installing them as soon as they were 
commercially available – and will continue 
working to complete installation of these 
important safety features in all vehicles.
Tractor Safety Innovations at FedEx Freight
Safety Feature FY19 Implementation
Electronic logging and VEDR systems (all tractors) 100%
Collision mitigation systems with automatic braking (road tractors) 98%
Audible lane departure warning systems (road tractors) 98%
Roll stability systems (road tractors) 98%
Visual backup camera (box trucks) 80%
* 19,128 tractors total
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4545
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
FedEx Ground Safety Engagement
The FedEx Ground fleet includes more 
than 70,000 motorized vehicles delivering 
9 million packages daily through contracted 
service providers that manage their own 
vehicle fleets. A combination of stringent 
safety requirements, standards, audits, 
incentives, and state-of-the-art safety 
technologies work together to help ensure 
safety. Each provider is also required 
to implement a safety and compliance 
program for everyone assigned to provide 
services to FedEx Ground. 
Ensuring Safety Compliance 
We work closely with our service providers 
to promote highway safety. FedEx Ground 
uses the web-based MyGroundBiz platform 
to communicate organizational and industry 
news, updates, business insights, customer 
alerts, and safety/regulatory information. 
And we encourage providers to engage 
in weekly voluntary forums that address 
highway safety topics for linehaul, pickup, 
and delivery operations. 
In FY19, FedEx Ground instituted a system 
of “red alerts” to provide widespread 
awareness of incidents with high potential 
for injury. Red alerts communicate the 
contributing factors associated with 
incidents or near misses, and provide key 
learnings for management to apply controls 
to mitigate or prevent severe incidents. 
Red alerts are distributed in the daily 
newsletter for employees and through 
MyGroundBiz for service providers. So far, 
20 red alerts have garnered approximately 
19,000 unique views.  In addition to contributing to measurable 
safety improvements in yards, the system’s 
red alerts have strengthened team  
member engagement and awareness  
of potential hazards. 
Leveraging Safety Technology
Of course, making sure our contractors’ 
vehicles include the latest safety technology  
is also essential. Working with manufacturers 
starting in FY20, FedEx Ground will provide 
incentives for retrofit kits and installation 
of forward collision mitigation systems in 
linehaul service provider tractors to achieve 
safety equipment compliance. 
In 2015, FedEx Ground began implementing 
VEDR technology in all hub hostlers as a 
pilot and, by the close of FY19, the entire 
hostler fleet had been equipped with VEDR. 
The technology improved the hub hostler 
safety score – the metric used to determine 
the effectiveness of coaching – by 93%, 
reflecting the value of operators being 
able to view and learn from actual footage 
of their practices. The VEDR system has 
helped create a positive engagement 
experience by allowing management and 
team members to review and address 
potentially unsafe driving behavior based 
on actual events and provide a platform 
for ideas to improve and prevent future 
occurrence. During FY19, FedEx Ground 
delivery van service providers also installed 
VEDR technology on approximately 7,000 
vehicles. Installations will continue in  
FY20 and FY21.Vehicle Safety (continued)
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4646
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
FedEx Express:  
Ensuring Safe Flight Operations 
FedEx Express operates the world’s largest 
dedicated all-cargo air fleet, and we have 
long been an industry leader in safe and 
reliable flight operations – a differentiator 
for our business. Today, our aviation safety 
strategy includes, among other elements, 
the use of revolutionary technology and 
science to keep us at the forefront, along 
with a holistic approach to reviewing any 
mishaps or near misses. 
We have also deployed a rigorous risk 
identification system and communication 
campaign, The Right Way, to raise 
awareness among team members about 
practical safety issues. Through a monthly 
series of presentations and discussions, 
the campaign helps to make sure team 
members have the knowledge they need 
to identify mistakes on the job before 
they turn into safety concerns. And while 
we expect all team members to follow all 
safety procedures, we also design system 
resiliency into each operation, which helps 
to guard against human error. 
Safety at Ramps and Hubs 
Keeping team members safe at our hubs 
and aviation ramps is an ongoing priority. 
A ramp, or apron, is generally a busy area 
at an airport, designed to accommodate 
aircraft loading and unloading, fueling, 
parking and maintenance. Cargo tugs, 
which pull carts and containers for loading 
and unloading aircraft at these ramps, are 
powerful vehicles capable of towing up to 
9 metric tons. However, seat belts to keep 
tug drivers safe are not standard equipment. 
In FY19, we completed the addition of Aviation Safety 
seat belts on 100% of cargo tugs at our 
Memphis hub, and we have plans  
to roll them out at other hubs in FY20.
Additional ramp safety measures include 
installation of automatic speed governors 
on tugs, emergency cut-off switches on 
various pieces of ramp equipment, and 
automated external defibrillators (AEDs) 
on all aircraft, benefiting both ground 
personnel and crew members. AEDs were 
also installed at 400 FedEx facilities across 
the U.S. in FY19. Many of these safety 
measures were implemented as a result  
of team member feedback.
To help protect aircrews from fire risks 
of lithium-ion batteries, we are installing 
fire containment bags on all trunk aircraft. 
The bag is designed to mitigate fire and 
overheating risks that can occur in portable 
electronic devices, such as mobile phones 
or tablets. 
In some locations, such as Canadian 
stations and ramps, we also began using 
a defined risk assessment method and 
continuous improvement strategy to further 
reduce risk. Since completing the risk 
assessments in Canada, the injury rate  
has decreased by 22%.
Protection Against Dangerous Goods 
In FY19, we implemented automated 
systems for identifying and managing 
dangerous goods shipped by customers. 
Two new tools, the Workbench DG 
manifesting platform and the SmartDG 
package inspection tool, provide added 
safety and reduce the risk of human error in 
tracking dangerous goods. The workbench 
platform has been installed at all FedEx Express locations globally for manifesting 
dangerous goods shipments by FedEx 
Express aircraft and trucks. The SmartDG 
package inspection system is web-based 
for convenient access on a mobile device 
or computer and enables package handlers 
to inspect dangerous goods shipments for 
compliance with regulatory requirements 
prior to acceptance by FedEx Express.  
As of September 2019, 1,000 handheld 
devices have been distributed to U.S. 
locations and FedEx Express sites outside 
the U.S. have begun testing the system.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4747
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Mindfulness for Improved  
Crew Member Safety
We are conducting Causal Analysis using 
Systems Theory (CAST) to look for any 
safety vulnerabilities and their root causes, 
and then taking appropriate steps to 
mitigate those risks. This includes applying 
the approaches learned through our earlier 
pilot mindfulness study to further enhance 
safety. The study demonstrated that pilots 
who regularly practice mindfulness, such as 
through meditation, exhibit a faster recovery 
from any situation that would normally 
cause a surprised or startled reaction. 
In turn, this allows cognitive thinking to 
resume more quickly so the pilot can take 
corrective action, such as in a missed 
approach situation. 
The FedEx Express Air Safety team has 
deployed and expanded two system  
theory tools – CAST and System Theoretic 
Process Analysis (STPA). CAST has been 
used to investigate significant flight events, 
leading to new insight into causal factors. 
STPA has been used in developing a 
deployment plan for our Critical Incident 
Response application.
Industry Leadership in  
Aviation Safety 
FedEx Express engages in knowledge 
transfer to share our safety best practices 
with others in the aviation industry.  
A few recent events include:
• We hosted our second MD11 operators’ 
conference, bringing together airlines to 
share best practices for operating these 
aircraft as safely as possible.• We co-led an Undeclared Dangerous 
Goods Working Group to raise shipper 
awareness of the requirements 
associated with shipping by air undeclared 
dangerous goods like aerosols, perfumes, 
and lithium batteries. The group has 
developed an awareness toolkit and  
is launching a U.S.-wide public  
awareness campaign.
• FedEx Express presented at the annual 
Systems Theoretic Accident Model 
and Processes Conference, where we 
discussed our industry-leading use of 
two key systems theory tools to conduct 
causal analysis of events and processes 
to further improve safety. 
• We invited eight other airlines to join us in 
Memphis to share lessons learned about 
practicing High Reliability Organization 
principles to improve safety.
• We met with other transportation 
professionals at the Council on Safe 
Transportation of Hazardous Articles 
event to familiarize them with the FedEx 
Express Safety Management System  
risk assessment process. Designed to 
reduce operational risk, the process can 
also be applied to situations involving 
change management, which can  
benefit consumers and carriers by 
minimizing surprises.Aviation Safety (continued) 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4848
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Facility Safety & Training
Facility Safety
Safety Above All begins well before the  
first employee steps into a new facility.
At FedEx Ground, a program called 
Prevention through Design incorporates 
safety improvements at facilities and yards. 
In FY18, one Prevention Through Design 
effort recommended engineering controls 
to reduce potential hazards between load 
lane staging conveyors and large package 
conveyors in hubs and stations. Already,  
316 of the improved bridge conveyors  
have been ordered.
Safety initiatives were completed at all 
FedEx Ground yards during FY18. These 
included adding high-visibility yellow 
wrapping and LED light bars to hostlers 
to improve visibility, installing safety 
signage and requiring that anyone outside 
designated walkways wear high-visibility 
reflective garments. 
FedEx Ground implemented a new Stop 
Work Authority program that empowers 
employees to stop any activity they witness 
that could create an unsafe environment. 
Safety Training 
Our operating companies implemented 
a number of innovative safety training 
methods in FY19:
• FedEx Freight updated its hazardous 
materials training to include more 
video, a matching game and immersive 
3D modeling to teach correct trailer 
placarding for hazardous materials. • FedEx Express Slip and Fall Simulator 
allows team members to experience 
real-life dangers in a safe environment. 
While safely harnessed into the simulator, 
team members learn methods for dealing 
with inclement weather, such as walking 
on slick surfaces while carrying packages 
and maneuvering around obstacles. 
Simulators are being used in our 
Indianapolis and Memphis hubs, where 
the number of team members who have 
used the simulators has increased since 
FY18. We plan to further increase the 
number who experience the simulators  
in the coming year.
• FedEx Safety Walkaround by senior 
leaders in our Asia-Pacific region 
demonstrates our commitment to a safe, 
accident-free workplace. With QR code-
enabled digital checklists compatible  
with mobile devices, the Safety 
Walkaround provides a way to easily 
record observations for follow-up or 
corrective action.• FedEx Express Safe Foundations Training 
Center at our Indianapolis hub takes new 
team members through a course on the 
safest ways for handling cargo, operating 
equipment, and performing other 
essential ramp activities.
• FedEx Express updated training on close-
quarters skills, in which drivers address 
common challenges such as navigating 
between two parked vehicles, expands 
the experience to real life in a controlled 
environment with an instructor. 
• In one region, FedEx Express has 
completed Safety Leadership Workshops 
for all senior leaders in an effort to engage 
senior managers on their roles and 
responsibilities, and launched MYLIFE 
Leadership safety walks that allow 
executives and officers an opportunity to 
engage with the workforce and influence 
good safety behavior.
• FedEx Logistics held its first Safety Month, 
a coordinated safety communications 
effort that took place over four weeks,  
with a new safety topic every week.• FedEx Ground formed a new Safety 
Institute department in FY19 to provide 
team members with a centralized 
resource of educational tools and services 
to improve safe behaviors, strengthen 
adoption, and increase application of safe 
practices across the company. A simple 
but effective safety engagement tool 
was implemented throughout the FedEx 
Ground network in FY19. An orange 
armband is worn by package handlers who 
have been on the job less than 90 days, 
helping to identify new team members 
and promote quality safety interaction, 
including coaching and education on safety 
controls and processes. The armband, 
along with other safety programs and 
processes, has contributed to a 15% 
reduction in injuries involving newer 
package handers.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
4949
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Hiring and retaining the world’s best 
talent is challenging. Even so, our global 
workforce grew by 7% in FY19, supported 
by innovative recruiting, development, and 
retention approaches. We are using creative 
ways to attract top talent and make sure our 
team members have robust opportunities 
to build lasting, rewarding careers with us. 
Although practices vary in keeping with local 
employment markets, our overall approach 
to recruiting, growing, and retaining a best-
in-class workforce includes:
• Innovative internships, training and 
learning options, as well as tuition 
reimbursement
• Alliances with people-focused 
organizations to provide outstanding 
benefits
• Initiatives that further embed and honor 
diversity and inclusion in our culture
• Industry-leading practices in driver  
and facility safety
We also make investments to attract and 
support candidates from non-traditional 
pathways. This includes aligning our hiring 
investments with our philanthropic giving 
initiatives where appropriate, to help people 
develop skills that get them workforce 
ready. A variety of creative recruitment 
strategies help to hire top talent in a 
competitive labor market, including social 
media engagement to attract talent, data 
analytics to drive recruitment and retention 
strategies, structured internship programs, 
and increased outreach for veteran hiring.Recruiting and Retaining Top Talent 
Pathways to a FedEx Career 
Finding creative ways to hire top talent 
in a competitive labor market is key to 
maintaining a strong, productive and 
growing global workforce. Our talent 
acquisition strategies must continue to 
evolve for us to continue hiring the best and 
the brightest for satisfying FedEx careers. 
We believe there are multiple paths to a 
successful career, and we aim to provide 
opportunities to non-traditional candidates. 
Our Employment Pathways initiative, which 
is closely linked to our talent management 
efforts, supports education, job training, 
and access to employment using a variety 
of platforms. Through financial investments 
and collaborations with educators and 
nonprofits, we help underserved youth 
and others navigate the college application 
process, train for high-demand jobs such 
as in technology and logistics, and access 
employment through credential programs. 
For instance, the Memphis Education Fund 
— which is working to dramatically improve 
the bottom 10% of area schools through 
targeted innovation and investment in 
teachers, schools and communities — was 
one of our top ten philanthropy recipients  
in FY19 under the FedEx Cares program. In FY19, we also held our inaugural 
Pathways to Success IT Summit. The event 
was intended to help increase diversity 
in the internship program and our overall 
workforce by providing under-represented 
students with a window to the expansive, 
diverse career opportunities at FedEx in 
science, technology, engineering, and math 
(STEM). Students participated in sessions 
on interviewing, resume writing, managing 
their online brands, and transitioning from 
the classroom to the corporate workplace, 
and had opportunities to apply for internships 
at the conclusion of the summit. 
To make sure that existing team members 
and executives are well-prepared to support 
our employment pathways programs,  
we developed a brochure that highlights  
our collaborations with nonprofits,  
features stories of participants who  
are now employed at FedEx, and  
captures organizational investments  
in employment pathways.
For other ways we build an inclusive 
workplace, see Diversity and Inclusion.$14.9m 
invested in programs  
that provide pathways to  
employment since FY16
940,000+ 
student entrepreneurs educated 
and coached globally since FY16
137 ,000+ 
youth and veterans provided 
with education, job training, and 
access to employment since FY16
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5050
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Recruiting and Retaining Top Talent (continued) 
Team Member Retention  
and Transitions
We prioritize promoting team members 
from within and regularly post positions 
internally before advertising them publicly, 
which is central to retaining top talent. 
Retaining our team members involves  
a number of factors:
• Consistent new hire orientation for hourly 
and management team members
• Timely training of all new team members• Review and updating of policies to  
make sure they support current  
workplace needs
• Focus on effective management  
and team member engagement 
In FY19, selected groups of U.S.-based 
employees at FedEx Express, FedEx 
Services, and FedEx Corporate were invited 
to apply for a voluntary buyout program.  
Of the employees who were selected,  
the majority left effective May 31, 2019. When careers at FedEx end, we provide 
career transition and outplacement 
services to eligible employees globally. 
Through a third party, FedEx offers career 
coaching, job search assistance, access 
to professional skills development, and 
other support to assist in managing career 
endings and continued employability in the 
broader market. 
For details about employee retention, 
including turnover by gender year-over-year, 
see the Data Appendix .
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5151
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Multiplying the potential of our people is 
central to our learning and development 
approach. And in a company as large and 
diverse as FedEx, it is possible for our team 
members to make an exciting career  
change without ever leaving the company. 
In addition, as e-commerce continues to 
grow, we are able to offer newer positions 
in logistics planning and management, 
IT and more. A variety of training and 
educational assistance, along with our 
longstanding commitment to promote 
managers from within, help FedEx  
team members make the most of the 
diverse job opportunities across our 
operating companies. 
To make sure new employees receive 
a more consistent experience, FedEx 
now provides the Core New Employee 
Orientation (Core NEO) module to each 
operating company for use with all new 
hires in their onboarding processes. 
Across our operating companies, message 
consistency increased from 27% to 84% 
in FY19 following the launch of this 
organization-wide orientation approach. 
Typically a two-day training experience, the 
orientation program includes 11 modules 
covering topics such as CSR, safety, 
information security, culture, and diversity 
and inclusion, among others. Delivery  
of the Core NEO modules varies by  
FedEx operating companies, with some 
offering the course material as a digital 
learning experience to make it even  
more efficient and convenient for  
team members to participate.Learning and Development 
$15.3m 
in tuition assistance provided  
to employees in FY1931,473
online courses available  
to team membersTeam members also participated in an 
average of 38 hours of formal training 
in FY19, many of them through our 
online FedEx Learning Center. There, 
team members can access more than 
31,473 courses covering essential skills. 
Collaborations with universities and 
other learning institutions provide even 
more opportunities for team member 
development. And in FY19, FedEx Services 
began facilitating more classes regionally, 
avoiding travel-related environmental 
impacts and expenses for attendees.
Training in Our Operating Companies 
To supplement this consistent approach 
with operating company-specific 
awareness, FedEx Ground launched a 
Training and Development Executive 
Advisory Council in FY19. Composed of 
company officers and executives, the 
council will monitor, standardize, and 
prioritize rollout of training programs. Also 
during the year, FedEx Ground University 
launched almost 40 new courses for team 
members covering a variety of topics from 
electrical safety and hazardous materials 
acceptance process to dynamic route 
optimization. FedEx Express has launched 
a new culture e-learning program for 
U.S. team members that covers PSP, the 
Purple Promise, and QDM. And in FY20, 
FedEx Office is rolling out the updated 
and interactive FedEx Office Experience 
orientation program that covers company 
history, the FedEx network, and similar 
topics using a game board-style map.
For management and non-management 
training hours, see the Data Appendix .
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5252
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Leadership Training  
and Development 
FedEx offers several unique leadership and 
career development tools and education 
for all full-time employees. For instance, 
Global Leadership Corps is an opportunity 
to develop leadership capabilities within 
the company while also giving back to 
communities. This four-month, intensive 
learning experience exposes high-
performing FedEx employees to next-
generation ways of doing business, such  
as emerging markets, virtual and global 
teams, diverse cultures, working outside  
the traditional office, and sustainable 
business practices.
In FY19, 30 FedEx leaders participated in 
the Global Leadership Corps, spending 
time in Sofia, Bulgaria and Phnom Penh, 
Cambodia, where they contributed to 
10 FedEx Cares projects with a social 
purpose. Team members provided hands-on 
guidance to nonprofits working to increase 
the access of rural women to economic 
opportunities, provide affordable housing, 
and support smallholder farmers and other 
community-focused causes. Through these 
experiences, participants had opportunities 
to improve their leadership, communication, 
and teamwork skills, while building cultural 
awareness, global fluency and contributing 
to FedEx Cares initiatives. EXCEL DRIVE is another enterprise-wide 
leadership development program for high-
potential managing directors, also designed 
to benefit people and communities. These 
mid-level leaders expand their global 
perspective by participating in a two-week 
global CSR project as a component of a 
six-month leadership development program. 
In 2019, 20 participants supported three 
social enterprise organizations in Bangkok, 
Thailand, contributing 2,240 volunteer hours 
through pro bono consultation. 
Our operating companies also maintain 
leadership development programs unique 
to their organizations’ needs. For instance, 
FedEx Freight offers FXF Action-Learning,  
a 90-day intensive developmental 
experience bringing together leaders 
from across FedEx Freight to solve real 
organizational problems, while facing 
challenges that require transformational 
thinking. And FedEx Custom Critical 
offers coaching and volunteering-based 
development through the ASPIRE program, 
designed for hourly employees who aspire 
to formal leadership. ASPIRE includes 
experiential learning, coaching, core and 
elective courses, and volunteering-based 
development opportunities. 
Overall, FedEx provides team members 
the opportunity to apply for internal 
jobs to move around within the same 
company. To support internal career moves, 
FedEx Services offers the On the Job 
Learning program, an experience-based 
program delivering an organizational-wide 
marketplace for short-term assignments 
that allow team members to build their 
skillset while expanding their network.Leveraging Training Technology
We use virtual and augmented reality 
learning tools to provide team members 
with more experiential, interactive learning 
opportunities. For example, the technology 
allows team members to see how our hub 
operations work without the time, expense 
and environmental impacts of travel. In 
FY19, FedEx Ground piloted virtual reality 
technology to train team members on dock 
safety and trailer loading and unloading.  
The virtual reality pilot increased 
engagement and knowledge retention for 
package handlers, and FedEx Ground has 
since deployed virtual reality-based training 
in 14 large hubs. 
In addition, FedEx Services, FedEx Office 
and other operating companies are also 
enhancing video-based learning through 
Vyond software, which blends animation, 
live-action video, diverse avatars, and still 
photography for creative and engaging 
learning solutions. Some operating 
companies, such as FedEx Express, are  
also adding more interactive forms of 
training and “microburst” training, such  
as the use of a trivia-based platform for 
QDM expert training. In FY19, FedEx 
Ground launched an animated training  
video about sexual harassment prevention 
and plans to expand the use of animation  
for training in FY20. FedEx Custom Critical  
has begun incorporating podcasts for 
product education and simulations to 
prepare customer service agents to take  
customer calls. Learning and Development (continued) 
FedEx Express, FedEx Ground, FedEx 
Services, FedEx Freight, and FedEx Office 
also have begun using gamification in 
training for some positions to improve 
interaction and learner engagement, and 
additional gamification training platforms 
are planned. At FedEx Office, a game 
board-style onboarding experience was 
launched in 2019 for all in-store team 
members, and nearly 3,000 people have 
used it and the associated coaching to learn 
how to perform their job in different parts 
of the FedEx Office store. FedEx Express 
is also developing an innovative training 
approach using a graphic novel and story 
telling featuring superhero characters to 
bolster learning. FedEx Freight developed 
a gamification approach to hazardous 
material training in three formats: matching 
games, real-world scenarios using digital 
documentation, and immersive 3D modeling 
where feedback is adapted based on the 
learner’s response.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5353
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Removing Obstacles  
to Higher Education 
Across our organization, we are 
committed to removing obstacles to 
higher education wherever possible. This 
includes eliminating financial barriers to 
post-secondary education and paving the 
way for employees to pursue a university 
degree. The Learning inspired by FedEx 
(LiFE) partnership between FedEx Express 
and The University of Memphis allows 
team members the chance to earn a 
potentially tuition-free, fully online degree. 
The LiFE program began at our Memphis 
hub in August 2019 and expanded to the 
Indianapolis, Oakland, Los Angeles, and 
Newark FedEx Express hubs and major sort 
locations within three months. We currently 
have more than 3,000 active participants. 
Since its launch, the program has also 
helped to reduce employee turnover at  
our Memphis hub by 16.8%. In addition, 
FedEx Logistics implemented the LiFE 
program in FY19, with 149 team members 
enrolled so far. 
Throughout our enterprise, a total of 7,544 
employees received a combined $15.3 
million in tuition assistance to further their 
education during FY19.
FedEx supports seven diverse scholarship 
funds across the U.S. to catalyze additional 
employment pathways. With nearly  
$1 million across all seven scholarship funds 
– American Indian College Fund, Asian 
and Pacific Islander American Scholarship 
Fund, Hispanic Scholarship Fund, Marine 
Corps Scholarship Fund, Point Foundation, 
Thurgood Marshall College Fund, and 
United Negro College Fund – we reach over 120 college and university scholars across 
various STEM, business and specialist 
disciplines with scholarships that range 
from $1,000 to $25,000 annually. We also 
foster the attainment of higher education 
through preparation and planning sessions 
with select scholarship funds. For example, 
in FY19, we supported more than 800 
parent and student attendees in five college 
information sessions that provided guidance 
on college applications and financial aid.
Similarly, easing the financial burden 
of rising education costs on the next 
generation of aviation professionals is 
central to our continued growth. Since 
we made a $2.5 million commitment 
to create the FedEx Purple Runway 
Aviation Scholarship, we have awarded 75 
scholarships to future aviation professionals 
in the program. Beyond the significant 
financial assistance, the program includes 
collaborations with seven universities and 
technical schools that provide valuable 
education and training for aspiring pilots, 
aircraft maintenance technicians, and  
other aviation professionals, helping  
attract talent to the entire aviation industry, 
including FedEx.
Managing for Top Performance 
As reported last year, in FY19 we continued 
refining how we assess employee 
performance by beginning to replace annual 
performance reviews with more consistent 
coaching and feedback to give employees 
even greater opportunities to direct their 
career development. This change began 
at FedEx Ground with the proactive 
performance management program  
Gaining Ground, in which employees drive 
goal-setting and feedback is frequent. A similar approach, CoachForward, focuses 
on quality conversations to improve 
performance and professional development 
for all team members at FedEx Corporate 
and FedEx Services. As of FY19, some 
88% of participating employees rate the 
CoachForward program favorably. Both 
Gaining Ground and CoachForward include 
setting business and personal goals 
annually, with managers and employees 
participating in a continuous coaching 
relationship toward those goals throughout 
the year. To help ensure success, managers 
have received focused training in coaching. 
At FedEx Ground, a new career development 
site includes tools for creating an individual 
career development plan, a repository of 
career development resources and links, 
and tips on preparing for the next career 
move. A new career journey guide provides 
an interactive way for team members to 
define, plan, and manage their development 
goals. And across our operating companies, 
Talent review initiatives focused on developing the competencies required to 
meet future business needs and career 
opportunities have been launched. 
To further invest in team member 
development, FedEx Freight has continued 
to reinforce Performance Review Chats. 
These one-on-one discussions promote 
frequent, collaborative conversations 
that empower team members to take 
their career to the next level, build goals 
with manager input, clarify performance 
expectations, and check on progress 
throughout the year. Conversations are 
structured to focus on core competencies, 
but managers can review a team member’s 
performance in several additional areas. 
Looking ahead, we will continue collaborating 
across operating companies to shift from 
traditional performance management to 
performance development, adapted to each 
operating company’s systems.Learning and Development (continued) 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5454
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
We listen to our team members through 
annual surveys, employee networks, and 
direct feedback so we can improve their 
experience, build an even more productive 
workplace and strengthen our business. 
FedEx conducts an annual engagement 
survey which includes open-ended 
questions. The results of the engagement 
survey are aggregated and comments 
summarized for senior leaders using text 
analytics. This helps inform changes.  
For instance, at FedEx Services individual 
reports are available for all leadership  
levels and leaders use their results  
to develop leadership plans.
Outside the U.S., a multi-part culture 
initiative is providing additional connection 
points for FedEx Express International team 
members with our company and our brand. 
Launched as an initiative to establish a Engaging Our Team Members 
common culture following the TNT Express 
acquisition, it has since evolved to inspire 
and motivate international team members 
around our culture. Building on the results 
of a culture survey and assessment, the 
initiative focuses on incorporating FedEx 
culture into our communications, behaviors, 
business processes, decision-making, 
recruiting, career development, and other 
aspects of our business. 
Collectively Bargained  
Agreements at FedEx
The vast majority of FedEx employees  
do not work under a collectively bargained 
agreement, and FedEx believes in 
compensating and treating our employees 
in a fair manner. In the U.S., a group of 
employees’ decision to unionize is their 
own, and FedEx respects that right; however, the company’s track record with 
respect to employee relations demonstrates 
that most of our employees prefer a direct 
relationship with the company. 
The pilots of FedEx Express, who are a 
small number of the total employees at 
FedEx Express, are employed under a 
collective bargaining agreement that took 
effect on November 2, 2015. This collective 
bargaining agreement is scheduled to 
become amendable in November 2021, 
after a six-year term. 
Within FedEx Express International, it is 
also common for employees to work under 
a collective bargaining agreement in many 
markets. In particular, in Europe, the social 
climate is such that a substantial part of 
the non-management population in the 
region is covered by collective bargaining 
agreements. These agreements are 
country-specific and are typically agreed to 
with employee representatives. Collective 
bargaining agreements often regulate 
important topics such as base salary, 
allowances, and holidays.
In addition to FedEx Express International 
and our pilots at FedEx Express, FedEx 
Supply Chain has a small number of 
employees who are members of unions, 
and FedEx Freight drivers at one location 
have voted for union representation, but 
are not currently subject to a collective 
bargaining agreement. Internationally,  
there are some unionized employees  
who do not fall within the umbrella of  
U.S. labor law, and a union has been 
certified to represent owner-drivers  
at a FedEx Freight facility in Canada.Communicating Operational Changes 
FedEx is committed to compliance with all 
required notice periods set forth in the U.S. 
Department of Labor Worker Adjustment 
and Retraining Notification Act (WARN), 
local, state, and country-specific laws. 
We notify all impacted team members of 
operational changes as soon as practical. 
Moreover, we provide all collectively 
bargained employees with a copy of their 
collective bargaining agreement. These 
employees also have access to all other 
FedEx work rules. FedEx regularly meets 
with union representatives to discuss, and 
where appropriate to bargain, changes to 
work rules impacting employees subject 
to a collective bargaining agreement. 
FedEx Express International is committed 
to compliance with all required notice 
periods and other regulations relating to 
any operational changes of its organization. 
Restrictions and requirements differ per 
region, and within a region there are 
differences country by country. Europe is 
the most regulated region within FedEx 
Express International which means that 
in several European countries operational 
changes may only be implemented after 
engagement with relevant works councils 
and employee representatives. FedEx 
Express International is fully committed to 
respecting such requirements and therefore 
all mandatory (minimum) notice periods are 
taken into account.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5555
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
At FedEx, we believe in the power of 
inclusion. We are committed to fostering 
respectful, safe, and inclusive workplaces 
that celebrate the unique contributions 
of each individual. With operations in 
thousands of communities around the 
world, our diverse talent is equipped to 
understand our customers’ varied needs. 
Everywhere we operate, diversity and 
inclusion connects people and possibilities 
to deliver a better future for team members, 
customers, suppliers, and communities. 
Each FedEx operating company maintains 
a diversity and inclusion team that also 
participates in an enterprise-wide Diversity 
& Inclusion Corporate Council. Members of 
the council share best practices and support 
multicultural programs in the companies 
and communities we serve. This council 
aligns to increase business performance, 
innovation, and employee engagement  
by fostering a true culture of diversity  
and inclusion across the enterprise.Diversity and Inclusion 
Recruiting for a Diverse Workforce 
Across our operating companies and 
in cooperation with key organizations, 
we recruit candidates from a variety of 
backgrounds to build a workforce reflective 
of the world and communities we serve.  
For example, we collaborate with the 
National Urban League, Society of Asian 
Scientists and Engineers, Society of 
Hispanic Professional Engineers, Society 
of Women Engineers, and others to 
increase our diverse candidate pools 
through targeted recruitment initiatives. 
We also encourage our team members to 
participate in these and other organizations. 
For example, one of our senior executives 
is currently the National Board Chair of the 
National Black MBA Association, and FedEx 
is a key sponsor of their annual conference 
while also supporting key events and 
initiatives of the organization. We also 
maintain a variety of hiring programs to 
help provide U.S. military veterans with 
rewarding employment as they transition  
to civilian life.
Internships and Mentoring
The FedEx Services “College Connections” 
internship program collaborates with the 
diversity and inclusion team to ensure 
the pipeline of students coming into 
FedEx is as diverse as possible. Targeted 
recruiting events reach an even more 
diverse population of African American and 
Hispanic students, including events at 16 
historically black colleges and universities; 
institutions with many Hispanic students; 
and career fairs at the Thurgood Marshall 
Leadership Conference, National Black 
MBA Conference, and others. College Connections has continued to grow 
since the program’s inception. In FY19, we 
received more than 16,000 applications to 
fill our 170 summer intern positions, 2,000 
more applicants than the previous year. 
Overall, the program allows us to reach 
thousands of candidates and interview many 
of them right at the conferences we attend. 
We typically offer approximately 70% of 
interns full-time employment. Minority 
representation in the internship program 
is at 50%, and the percentage of African 
American and Hispanic interns increased 
by 5% from 2018 to 2019. In addition, 
to make sure our interns have a positive 
experience at FedEx, interns are paired with 
team members who provide feedback and 
mentoring throughout the summer.
Connecting With Students  
at Historically Black Colleges  
and Universities
FedEx Logistics launched a first-of-its-
kind program at Mississippi Valley State 
University, a historically black college and 
university, which included opening a satellite 
office on the campus staffed by qualified 
students. The program is designed to offer 
employment opportunities and create 
a diverse pipeline of talent by aligning 
professional job opportunities for students 
to support the FedEx Logistics customs 
brokerage operation. Students have 
access to part-time employment and gain 
experience while they are in school, with 
the potential for full-time employment  
upon graduation.Diversity Starts at the Top
The FedEx Board of Directors includes 
13 directors, four of whom are women 
and three of whom are ethnically 
diverse. Women represent 23% 
of FedEx management employees 
globally, while minorities comprise 
37% of management employees in 
the U.S. 
See the Data Appendix for the 
percentage of minorities in 
management from FY17 to FY19 
in the U.S.Also during FY19, FedEx Freight facilitated 
two career-readiness outreach events 
called The Boardroom Experience at 
historically black colleges and universities. 
The aim was to continue building a diverse 
talent pipeline for summer internships by 
providing exposure and experience in career 
opportunities at FedEx Freight. The program 
will expand to Hispanic-serving institutions 
in FY20. 
A Diverse and Inclusive Culture
Across our operating companies, FedEx 
team members participate in business 
resource teams and affinity groups that help 
recruit, develop and retain talent, create 
connections, and build community through 
targeted programs and events that align 
with business strategies for maximum 
impact. Numerous networks are available to 
team members, including, but not limited to, 
Women in Leadership, Black Professional’s 
Network, All-Generations, Multi-Ethnic 
Leadership Community, Asia Network, 
LGBT & Friends, U.S. Military Veterans, 
Growing Professionals, Parents Working 
Together, and many others. During FY19, 
affinity groups sponsored a variety of events 
and summits. And in concert with the 
business resource teams, we held the sixth 
annual Women in Leadership 360° Summit 
in two locations, along with 11 watch parties 
in 10 countries.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5656
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
We believe that a culturally competent 
workplace is one where team members can 
bring their whole selves to work because 
the workplace has the right accountability, 
infrastructure, and resources to foster a 
lasting, inclusive culture. Education, training, 
and regular communications encourage 
managers and individual team members 
to embrace a strategic mindset and a 
culture where diversity and inclusion are 
fundamental to the organizational  
bottom line. 
For example, in 2019 FedEx Freight rolled 
out the Diversity & Inclusion Service Center 
liaison program, which empowers talented 
and culture-driven team members to 
reinforce the diversity and inclusion strategy 
in the FedEx Freight network. This program 
connects diversity and inclusion initiatives 
to front line team members while providing 
unique opportunities to develop leaders in 
the company.
FedEx Ground launched two new videos 
in FY19 which featured team members 
illustrating how the company maintains 
a diverse and inclusive culture and 
exploring what inclusion means. These 
videos supplement the existing Inclusive 
Workplace Learning Map course and other 
resources. FedEx Ground also recognized 
team members and functional areas with  
61 Inclusive Leadership Awards. This annual 
event is part of an ongoing program that 
recognizes those who have demonstrated 
commitment to an inclusive workplace 
culture. Also during the year, the FedEx 
Ground Employee Network Council 
initiative, which aligns employee networks 
for strong diversity and inclusion outcomes, 
welcomed two new employee networks –  Men Leading Inclusively and enABLE 
Network. FedEx Ground now has 11 
employee networks that sponsored more 
than 35 events during the year to engage 
team members in leveraging diversity and 
inclusion for networking, career building, 
and business optimization.
During FY19, FedEx Office implemented 
a number of programs to foster greater 
diversity and inclusion awareness, 
implementation, and tracking: 
• Diversity and inclusion awareness 
roadmap and message map for consistent 
messaging
• Updates to orientation, job description  
and team member handbook resources  
to emphasize diversity and inclusion
• FedEx One intranet site with materials 
to further team member understanding 
of how to apply diversity and inclusion 
principles
• Diversity and inclusion overview video 
added to new employee orientations
• Diversity and inclusion strategies 
and tools added to talent review and 
performance management 
• Inclusive leadership and bias training 
delivered to all human resources 
departments 
• Courageous Conversations, a training 
session to help leaders learn how to 
navigate sensitive conversations.
See the Data Appendix for:
• FedEx global headcount by gender
• U.S. percent workforce diversity
• U.S. percent generational diversityDiversity and Inclusion (continued) 
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5757
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Health and Wellness 
We are committed to supporting the 
physical and behavioral health and well-
being of our team members and their 
families by providing an array of programs 
that help our people and their loved ones 
stay at their best level of health, lifelong. 
In turn, this allows our team members to 
deliver the best service for our customers. 
Achieving the best health outcomes for our 
plan members directly reduces healthcare 
costs for our business. 
High-Quality, Affordable Benefits
Our total benefits package for team 
members includes competitive and, in many 
cases, innovative health benefits for eligible 
full-time and part-time team members and 
their dependents. In the U.S., where we 
have approximately 220,000 participating 
team members, we cover more than 70% 
of total eligible health and disability costs 
for part- and full-time employees at the 
plan level. This set of services includes 
medical, behavioral, dental, vision, and 
pharmacy coverage with flexible options for 
each. According to the IBM Watson Health 
database, the out-of-pocket costs for FedEx 
team members are lower than at most 
other companies. In addition, participating Team Member Quality of Life 
360%
team member use of telehealth 
increased by 360% in FY19part-time and full-time team members are 
eligible for health reimbursement accounts, 
employee assistance counseling, free 
generic prescription coverage, company-
paid life insurance, and many other benefits.
Access to Healthcare
Team members are increasingly using 
telehealth tools to connect with medical 
professionals for personalized healthcare, 
remotely from their mobile devices or 
computers. From FY18 to FY19, our team 
members’ use of telehealth jumped 360% 
and, in 2020, telehealth access became 
free of charge. Along with our 24-hour 
nurse line, near-site healthcare facilities 
– such as the ones close to our FedEx 
Express headquarters, Memphis hub, and 
in Irving, Texas – assistance with second 
opinions, integrated personal health teams, 
a medical decision support group, and 
tiered access networks, our team members 
have a variety of flexible options for their 
healthcare, whether they live in rural areas 
or large cities. Team members can also use 
a digital navigation tool to find doctors, see 
account balances, and get other healthcare 
information on their mobile devices. FedEx 
is among an estimated 40% of large 
employers that offer this convenience.Support With Work-Life Balance  
and Major Events
In addition to family-friendly benefits such 
as paid maternity and paternity leave and 
financial assistance with adoptions, FedEx 
offers a Work-Life Balance Program to all 
U.S. team members. Members can access 
specialists and online resources for advice 
and support on common life events and 
challenges, such as parenting, childcare, 
and financial matters. In 2019, a total of 
146,847 team members – 45% of eligible 
U.S.-based team members – participated 
in work-life balance programs.
Employee Assistance Program
PeopleHelp offers confidential counseling 
services to employees, eligible dependents, 
and all household members, regardless 
of if they are participating plan members, 
24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Services 
provided includes unlimited telephone 
consultations with a licensed clinician 
to explore treatment options, identify 
resources, and develop action plans.  
In addition to consultations, educational 
offerings such as webcasts on various 
topics, online personal health programs,  
and wellness seminars are available. Wellness and Stress Reduction
Team member wellness programs, including 
healthy weight management and tobacco 
cessation programs, nutritionist support, 
stress management classes, and other 
resources, reflect our holistic approach 
to supporting well-being. Other wellness 
offerings at some operating companies 
include free on-site flu shots, on-site 
mammograms, and fitness challenges. 
Team members can also access LifeCare 
for guidance navigating both big and small 
events, such as finding childcare, handling 
the death of a parent, or buying a car.  
Other available resources to help reduce 
life’s stressors include legal assistance, 
identity theft protection, and home and  
auto insurance.At FedEx, we believe our success depends on the talent, dedication, 
and well-being of our people. Providing them with competitive 
healthcare, wellness, retirement, and other benefits supports our team 
members’ quality of life and enables them to perform at their best.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5858
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Team Member Quality of Life (continued) 
Competitive, Equitable Pay 
Across our organization, FedEx is 
committed to providing a competitive wage 
to all employees. Every FedEx company 
conducts periodic benchmarking analyses  
to ensure our pay remains competitive.  
In addition, each FedEx company assesses 
internal pay equity periodically. In each pay 
analysis, we adjust for job tenure, region, 
performance, and other variables that can 
influence pay over time.
Saving for the Future 
FedEx offers pension and 401(k) plans 
to eligible U.S. team members. The pension 
plans are completely funded by FedEx and 
the 401(k) plans are partially funded by the 
company through matching contributions. 
In FY19, 91% of U.S.-based team members 
participated in our 401(k) plans. To increase  
retirement plan participation, we participated 
in 18 benefits fairs in FY19, and reached 
more than 22,000 employees and spouses. 
We also facilitated 123 retirement education 
seminars that were attended by over 7,800 
team members. 
In FY19 we made contributions of $1 billion 
to our U.S. pension plans – among the best 
funded in the U.S. FedEx recently closed 
the U.S. defined benefit pension plans 
to new non-union employees hired on or 
after January 1, 2020. The pension plans 
will remain open to eligible employees 
who were hired prior to January 1, 2020. 
Effective January 1, 2021, we will introduce 
an all-401(k) plan retirement benefit structure 
with a higher company match of up to 8% 
for eligible employees across all U.S.-based 
FedEx companies.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
5959
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
6060
Environment
Multiplying Efficiencies
3.1m
We avoided more than 3.1 million metric tons 
of CO 2e emissions in FY19 from enterprise-wide 
fuel- and energy-saving initiatives.At FedEx, we are proud of our ability to connect 
people and possibilities around the world, and to 
do so responsibly and resourcefully. Within our 
own operations, innovation is central to multiplying 
efficiencies, reducing our environmental impacts, and 
creating value for our business and our stakeholders.
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 6161
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Our Approach – Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize
Across the FedEx organization, our 
Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize approach 
guides environmental efforts to drive the 
responsible and efficient use of resources, 
optimize our business, lower costs, and 
deliver value in four key areas:
• Aircraft efficiency
• Vehicle efficiency
• Sustainable facilities
• Sustainable materials and recycling
In each of these areas, a philosophy 
we call Practical Sustainability helps us 
identify the right initiatives to address our 
material issues, guided by input from the 
experts on our Sustainability Impact Teams 
(SITs). Practical Sustainability emphasizes 
opportunities to multiply efficiencies, 
minimize impacts and apply innovative 
solutions that optimize our business. 
This means committing to our long-term 
performance, to transparency in sharing 
our progress, to innovation in products 
and operations, and to leadership in next-
generation solutions and policies with  
the power to transform the industry  
and benefit society.See Our CSR Strategy for more information 
about our material issues. For some of 
the ways we are innovating to reduce 
environmental impacts associated with 
last-mile delivery, urban mobility, and other 
challenges, see the Driving Innovation  
section in the Economy chapter.
Throughout our global enterprise, team 
members play key roles in implementing 
our sustainability strategy and achieving our 
goals. A variety of internal programs provide 
avenues for FedEx team members to help 
advance our continued progress at reducing 
fuel emissions, energy use, and waste 
in the workplace. Across the enterprise, 
our longstanding QDM approach drives 
continuous improvement, fostering quality 
and efficiency in everything we do. At the operating company level, examples 
include FedEx® Fuel Sense and Eco Drive  
at FedEx Express, Energy Watch at FedEx 
Freight, and EarthSmart Champions at 
FedEx Ground. 
Collectively, our sustainability efforts  
have contributed to an approximately  
40% reduction in CO 2 emissions intensity 
across the enterprise from FY09 to FY19,  
a period in which revenue grew by 96%.
40%
decrease in CO2 emissions 
intensity (on a revenue basis) 
since FY09 Reduce
Minimize or eliminate impacts  
from activities and operations.
 Replace
Apply the right solutions in the  
right applications.
 Revolutionize
Discover and utilize cutting-edge 
technologies and solutions.
6262
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Energy and GHG Emission Reduction 
The fuel used to power this fleet represents 
a significant operational cost, as well as 
our most material environmental impact, 
accounting for almost 6% of operating 
expenses and 92% of our emissions 
footprint in FY19. 
Our continued growth means we must seek 
new approaches and available technologies 
to optimize efficiency in our vehicles, 
aircraft, and facilities. Through these efforts 
we have decreased our GHG (greenhouse 
gas) emissions on a gross revenue basis and 
adopted a number of strategies to improve 
efficiency even further:
• Setting ambitious fuel efficiency and 
emission reduction targets.
• Modernizing our aircraft and vehicle fleet.
• Incorporating alternative fuels and 
emerging technologies into our  
fleet and facilities.
• Using more efficient purchased 
transportation, including interline 
commercial air carrier and intermodal  
rail transport.
• Engaging team members and customers 
in energy efficiency initiatives.
• Advocating for regulatory and policy 
changes that support emissions 
reduction, efficiency improvements,  
and cleaner technology.We are committed to openly sharing  
our progress on reducing emissions.  
In 2019, FedEx received an A- (Leadership 
level) score on CDP Climate Change 
Disclosure ranking for sustainability and 
emissions management efforts, up from 
B/Management level in 2018. For more 
detail about our energy efficiency and 
emission reduction programs, see the 
latest FedEx CDP response . 3,140,299 
metric tons of CO2e emissions 
avoided from enterprise -wide 
fuel- and energy-saving 
initiatives in FY19*
FY19 Transportation Efficiency Gains and Cost Savings
FedEx Initiatives FY19 Cost Savings Estimates FY19 Emissions Avoided  
(metric tons CO 2e)
Aircraft fleet modernization, FedEx® Fuel Sense operational 
improvements$553m 2,410,270
Fuel-efficient driving, vehicle technology improvements, 
alternative fuel usage, electric vehicles at FedEx Express$76m 255,666
Intermodal rail transport at FedEx Freight $84m 281,278
* Includes on-site solar, building lighting retrofits, FedEx Fuel Sense, aircraft fleet modernization, FedEx Express vehicle efficiency, and FedEx Freight intermodal rail usageFedEx operates a fleet of 679 aircraft and more than 180,000 
owned and contracted on-road and non-road vehicles, including 
some 80,000 company-owned vehicles over which we have 
operational control.
See the Data Appendix for FY19 and  
year-over-year results on:
• Direct and indirect energy consumption
• Direct and indirect GHG emissions
• Emissions intensity
• Other significant air pollutants
• Fuel, energy, emissions savingsAircraft Efficiency 
Goal:
Reduce aircraft emissions intensity  
by 30% from a 2005 baseline by 2020.
Progress:
24% reduction since 2005 baseline.
Goal:
Obtain 30% of jet fuel from alternative  
fuels by 2030.
Progress:
The first delivery of alternative jet fuel is 
anticipated in the second half of 2020.
Ensuring that the nearly 700 aircraft in 
our fleet operate as efficiently as possible 
requires a combination of strategies from 
each part of our approach: Reduce, Replace, 
and Revolutionize. We reduce fuel use in 
flight operations through the FedEx® Fuel 
Sense program, replace and modernize 
our planes with more efficient aircraft, and 
revolutionize our operations with alternative 
fuels and industry-leading technologies. 
In FY19, this approach achieved strong 
results. Our aircraft modernization and FedEx 
Fuel Sense programs saved more than 250 
million gallons of fuel and avoided more than 
2.41 million metric tons of CO2e emissions. 
In addition, where appropriate, we use 
interline commercial air carrier transport to 
maximize system and network efficiency, 
which in turn reduces fuel use, emissions, 
and costs. This involves collaborating with 
other airlines to carry FedEx packages on 
routes where our aircraft have less than a 
full load, making our air operations in those 
regions more efficient. FY19 Aircraft Modernization  
and FedEx Fuel Sense Programs Reduce
Minimize or eliminate impacts  
and fuel use from flight  
operations through the FedEx®  
Fuel Sense program.
 Replace
Modernize our planes with more 
efficient aircraft.
 Revolutionize
Utilize alternative fuels and  
industry-leading technologies.
Commitment to Sustainable Aviation and Community Investment
As always, FedEx remains committed to efforts with the potential to make aviation 
more sustainable. For the last several years, we have participated in the effort to 
develop the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation 
(CORSIA) program alongside our industry association. CORSIA has been adopted  
by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a specialized agency of  
the United Nations with the authority to enforce the provisions of the program.  
It will complement the aviation industry’s multi-pronged strategy, which includes 
development of alternative fuels to reduce emissions on a lifecycle basis and the 
advancement of engine and airframe technology to improve efficiency. 
CORSIA is designed to aid in achieving the international aviation industry’s goal of 
carbon neutral growth starting in 2020, along with other reduction measures, such  
as infrastructure upgrades, technology, operations, and sustainable aviation fuel.  
In 2019, we began tracking our emissions from international flights in accordance  
with the requirements of CORSIA, and we will do so again in 2020. Our data,  
along with that from other airlines, will be used to set the industry’s 2020 emissions 
baseline. Beginning in 2021, FedEx and other airlines subject to the requirements 
of CORSIA will be responsible for purchasing and retiring carbon credits to offset 
emissions in excess of the baseline set in 2020.
CORSIA provides opportunities for more investment in projects that provide 
co-benefits. The projects to be supported by FedEx will deliver benefits in the 
communities where they are implemented, such as investment in capturing methane 
from landfills or buying carbon offsets from farms that generate electricity from waste.
250m
gallons of fuel 
saved2.41m
metric tons of CO2e 
emissions avoided
6363
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
6464
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Reduce
FedEx Fuel Sense 
Lowering aircraft-related emissions at 
FedEx Express means achieving a single, 
but multifaceted objective: reducing our 
use of jet fuel. Whether by shifting some 
air shipping to ground shipping, targeting 
innovative ways to board and burn less fuel, 
or modernizing our fleet with more efficient 
aircraft, we continually work to consume 
less jet fuel. For more about our continued 
fleet modernization, see page 65.
FedEx Fuel Sense® is a comprehensive fuel 
conservation program at FedEx Express, 
representing a suite of initiatives designed 
to reduce fuel consumption in our aircraft 
fleet. The Fuel Sense program is managed 
by the cross-functional Operational 
Efficiency Steering Committee (OESC) 
with representatives from across FedEx 
Air Operations. Since it began in 2006, 
FedEx Fuel Sense has applied the insights 
and ideas of aviation team members and 
experts to create a transformative culture 
of fuel-saving behavior and systems to help 
save 764.7 million gallons of jet fuel. In FY19 
alone, FedEx Fuel Sense programs saved 
more than 109.6 million gallons of jet fuel. 
This is equivalent to the power needed by 
the entire FedEx aircraft fleet for almost 
34 days. These fuel savings also avoided more than 1,054,418 metric tons of CO2e 
emissions, an increase of 15.6% over  
FY18 savings. 
Over 70 different fuel-saving projects are 
now under the FedEx Fuel Sense umbrella 
and the number continues to grow as 
additional projects are identified. Potential 
programs are identified and implemented 
through a collaborative effort involving all 
major departments in FedEx Air Operations 
including air traffic operations, dispatchers, 
ramp operations, pilots, aircraft maintenance 
technicians, and others. FedEx Fuel Sense 
programs include:
Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) Program: 
Saves up to $40 Million
An APU is a small but fuel-hungry jet 
engine primarily used to power aircraft 
systems while in the gate. Wherever 
possible, we substitute ground power 
instead of operating the APUs, and have 
set parameters for when the APUs should 
be powered up and shut down. Operating 
APUs in the gate is approximately ten times 
more expensive than electric and four times 
more expensive than diesel-generated 
ground power. 
Some airports do not have the necessary 
infrastructure to plug in a Ground Power 
Unit (GPU) as an alternative to an APU, 
so we have provided funding for that 
infrastructure, such as at our Anchorage, 
Alaska hub. Purchasing appropriate 
equipment has been key to the program’s 
success as well. For instance, in Memphis, 
we purchased air conditioning carts that 
can slightly cool an airplane before the 
crew arrives. Simple measures such as sun 
shades in cockpit windows further reduce the need to start an APU to cool down  
an airplane, while also encouraging a  
fuel-saving mindset and habits. 
Simplified Fuel Planning:  
Saves Almost 16 Million Gallons
An important change that originated in 
the FedEx Fuel Sense program is the 
Simplified Fuel Policy. This new fuel 
planning approach, implemented in FY19, 
encourages communication among the 
many teams involved in determining the 
amount of fuel added to each flight. The 
policy focuses on ensuring the right amount 
of fuel is added to each flight and has 
been extremely successful at reducing 
consumption and costs. Carrying extra fuel 
adds weight, decreases efficiency, produces 
more emissions, and increases operating 
costs, so we reviewed interactions between 
dispatchers and pilots about how much fuel 
should be boarded on our aircraft for a given 
flight. Results showed a lack of clarity about 
the optimal amount to cover the flight plan 
as well as contingencies for severe weather 
or air traffic controller-imposed delays. 
The Simplified Fuel Policy includes clear 
guidance and defined standards about when 
and how much fuel to add, depending on 
weather and other operating conditions. 
In turn, this information gives pilots – who 
by regulation have full control over the 
amount of fuel boarded onto an aircraft – 
the added assurance that their aircraft are 
sufficiently fueled, thereby avoiding the 
need to override the plan by adding more. 
This relatively simple, but innovative, change 
not only provides consistency in fueling 
practices, but has also led to savings of 
almost 16 million gallons of fuel and  
$35 million in fuel costs so far.Fostering a Fuel-Saving Culture
With any new program, ingrained habits and 
culture are the hardest elements to change. 
But FedEx Air Operations teams have 
changed their working culture significantly 
to make sure fuel is conserved wherever 
possible. APUs are used selectively and in 
alignment with our new criteria, dispatchers 
are more vigilant than ever when planning 
the amount of fuel to board, pilots trust the 
plans, and we are sharing their experiences 
with other aviation staff across our network 
of 13 Air Express hubs and more than 650 
airports. A comprehensive communications 
program at FedEx Express, including 
surveys, videos, posters, meetings with 
pilots and other events, has confirmed that 
our ground staff and crew members care 
about saving fuel and delivering the lowest 
possible costs to customers. Of course,  
our efforts to conserve fuel and reduce 
impacts don’t end with our own operations. 
We share our learnings and best practices 
with other companies so the aviation 
industry can become more efficient.
Testing Confirms Innovative 
Wake Surfing Could Reduce 
Fuel Use by 10%
FedEx Express and Boeing have 
completed formation flight tests that 
confirm the potential for reducing fuel 
consumption by flying in the wingtip 
vortex of the lead aircraft. Wake 
surfing, which emulates the formation 
flying of birds, could potentially reduce 
fuel consumption by up to 10%.9%
Since 2007, FedEx Fuel Sense 
savings equal 9% of the total 
aircraft fuel budgetAircraft Efficiency (continued)6565
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Replace 
Aircraft Modernization 
Thanks to our ongoing modernization 
program, FedEx maintains one of the 
world’s largest, fastest, and most innovative 
all-cargo aircraft fleets. Our aircraft 
modernization strategy continued delivering 
benefits in FY19, saving 140,587,382 
gallons of fuel and avoiding 1,355,852 
metric tons of CO 2e. This represents  
a 28% increase in avoided emissions  
over the previous year.
We have been working to reduce aircraft 
emissions since 2005, our baseline year, 
and announced our first reduction goal of 
20% by 2020 in 2008. Three years later, 
in 2011, we revised this target upwards 
to 30%. However, as we have previously 
reported, our progress is falling short of the 
overall improvements needed to meet our 
revised 30% reduction goal. As of FY19, our 
aircraft emissions intensity has decreased 
by 24% since 2005. Continued higher 
e-commerce and other shipping volumes, 
and the need to maintain older aircraft 
marked for retirement while we await 
production of more efficient replacements, 
have presented ongoing challenges toward 
our goal. 
We continue making progress on our overall 
fleet modernization plans. In September 
2019, we announced the retirement of 20 of 
our MD-10-10 aircraft over FY20 and FY21, 
which will eliminate that fleet type from 
our air operations. In the second quarter of 
FY20, FedEx Express permanently retired 
10 Airbus A310-300 aircraft and 12 related 
engines. We continue to evaluate whether 
additional aircraft retirements are warranted.As of February 2020, FedEx Express has 
pending orders for 15 Boeing 777F aircraft 
and 48 Boeing 767F aircraft. We already 
have 84 Boeing 767F aircraft in our fleet, 
with the remainder scheduled to arrive 
between 2020 and 2023. Already, we  
are realizing significant improvements  
in fuel efficiency because the Boeing  
767 Freighters are about 30% more fuel  
efficient than the MD-10s they replace.  
The modernization of our overall aircraft 
fleet lowers costs through enhanced 
reliability, operational flexibility, reduced 
maintenance expenses, and improved  
fuel efficiency.
Our fleet of feeder aircraft, which cover 
shorter routes, is also being upgraded.  
We have agreements in place to purchase 
50 Cessna SkyCourier 408 aircraft and  
30 ATR 72-600F aircraft, which improve  
fuel efficiency, reliability, and operating 
costs. The new aircraft will be capable 
of carrying much heavier cargo, allowing 
us to provide a single airplane on a route, 
rather than two on a single route, greatly 
enhancing efficiency.
For details on our aircraft fuel and emissions 
savings, see the Data Appendix . Revolutionize
Aircraft Biofuels
While FedEx® Fuel Sense programs and 
fleet modernization have lowered fuel use 
and emissions, we want to reduce our 
impacts further. Our goal to obtain 30% 
of jet fuel from alternative fuels by 2030 
underscores our commitment to explore 
all avenues to reducing aircraft emissions. 
We have collaborated with our industry, 
government agencies, academia, and 
alternative fuel suppliers in search of viable, 
cost-effective alternatives that can not only 
reduce our own emissions, but support 
uptake of alternative fuels throughout the 
aviation industry. In 2019, industry progress to aviation 
biofuels reached a milestone when Red 
Rock Biofuels, which will supply low-carbon, 
renewable jet fuel to FedEx Express, 
began constructing a biodiesel refinery 
in Lakeview, Oregon. The first delivery 
of alternative jet fuel is anticipated in the 
second half of 2020. The biofuel, which 
will be used in our Bay Area, California 
operations, will be produced using woody 
biomass from the logging industry, which is 
normally a waste product. This means that 
in addition to producing fewer emissions, 
the alternative jet fuel will also keep waste 
from being incinerated or landfilled.
Aircraft Efficiency (continued)6666
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Goal:
Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel 
efficiency by 50% from a 2005 baseline  
by 2025.
Progress:
40.9% improvement from a 2005 baseline.Vehicle Efficiency 
Through FY19, these combined efforts 
resulted in a 40.9% improvement in FedEx 
Express vehicle fuel efficiency from our 
2005 baseline. 
See the Data Appendix for FY19 and year-
over-year results on:
• Vehicle fuel use (diesel, gasoline, propane, 
LNG, CNG)
• Number of alternative fuel vehicles 
(hybrid, electric, LNG, CNG, LPG, 
hydrogen fuel cell)
• Fuel saved and emissions avoided 
through vehicle efficiency efforts
 Reduce
Minimize emissions through 
platooning and intermodal rail.
 Replace
Modernize our vehicles  
with more efficient models.
 Revolutionize
Utilize fleet electrification.6767
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Drive Me Challenge
The annual FedEx Express Drive Me Challenge in Europe brings together top-
performing van, truck, and forklift drivers to compete on behalf of their country and 
in cooperation with each other. Contestants are judged on fuel efficiency, safety, 
customer experience, and knowledge of their vehicles. In 2019, the team from Poland 
won the competition in events that put environmental performance front and center.
Vehicle Efficiency (continued) 
Reduce and Replace
Technology and Operations 
In each market where we operate, we strive 
to leverage the best available emission 
technology for our vehicles. This minimizes 
the emissions impacts of any remaining 
legacy vehicles in the fleet. The positive 
outcomes of this approach are especially 
notable at FedEx Express, which operates 
more than 85,000 company-owned and 
contracted vehicles around the world and 
has committed to maintaining a robust 
emission strategy, well ahead of low-
emission and zero-emission zones and  
other regulatory requirements, especially  
in congested urban centers. 
FedEx Freight also continues replenishing 
its fleet, replacing older tractors and other 
equipment with newer models that enhance 
efficiency and safety. In FY19, FedEx Freight 
replaced 184 older diesel trucks that had 
reached their end-of-life with cleaner diesel 
trucks whose engines are 92% more efficient. 
As with our aircraft modernization program, 
however, we have had to keep in service 
some older tractors slated for replacement  
to accommodate company growth.
Innovative approaches such as platooning, 
which we continued demonstrating with 
Volvo Trucks North America in FY19, can 
increase truck fuel efficiency and improve 
safety. When two or three trucks can 
drive closely behind one another, aided by 
technology, fuel efficiency improves as a 
result of reduced drag, which is normally 
responsible for as much as 25% of a truck’s 
fuel use. Our platooning demonstration 
allows trucks to follow each other in a safe 
and controlled manner by using automated vehicle-to-vehicle communication. The lead 
truck can use radar to detect an upcoming 
issue and signal to the following trucks 
for automated responses using collision 
mitigation and other technology. Our 
continued collaboration is testing efficiency 
and optimizing safety under scenarios such 
as road closures, tire blowouts, inclement 
weather, and other challenges. Through 
this and other innovative projects, we 
are working to both reduce fuel use and 
revolutionize our fleet. 
Intermodal Rail Transport 
For FedEx Freight and FedEx Ground, some 
shipping may be diverted to intermodal rail 
which is 70% more efficient than transport 
by road. By leveraging the efficiency of rail 
for longhaul shipping, we are able to reduce 
our emissions while maintaining the same 
level of customer convenience through 
truck pickup at origination and delivery to 
the final destination. In FY19, FedEx Freight 
continued to increase the use of intermodal 
rail transport and added 659 intermodal 
trailers as well as tandem-axel tractors 
needed to support the longer 53-foot trailer 
and greater weight. 
During FY19, the use of intermodal rail 
transport by FedEx Freight saved an 
additional 27,450,815 gallons of fuel and 
avoided 281,278 metric tons of CO2e 
emissions. This reflects a 7.8% increase 
in rail miles for FedEx Freight intermodal 
shipping during FY19 compared to the 
previous year. 6868
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Vehicle Efficiency (continued) 
Revolutionize
We are committed to revolutionizing our 
vehicle fleet with alternative fuels and 
innovative technologies. Incorporating 
these innovative vehicles plays an important 
role in reducing our GHG emissions, while 
also benefiting the broader transportation 
industry. We are amplifying our efforts 
toward greater electrification of our fleet 
and exploring fuel-cell-powered vehicles, 
among other advanced technologies. 
Electric Vehicles
Across our operating companies, we remain 
committed to adding electric vehicles to 
our fleet, both in our facility operations and 
in deliveries. However, while technology 
has advanced for personal electric vehicles, 
barriers to electrifying a commercial fleet 
as large and complex as ours remain 
significant. We face two main challenges: 
• The types of vehicles we need, ranging 
from longhaul Class 8 trucks to last-mile 
delivery vehicles, are still not available 
in the commercial vehicle space in the 
quantities we need. We are working  
with manufacturers to address range  
and capacity limitations.
• Charging infrastructure is not yet 
sufficient to handle the demands 
of charging hundreds of vehicles 
simultaneously. In urban areas,  
we use available regenerative charging 
stations, and we are collaborating  
with power utilities on broader 
infrastructure solutions.Despite these limitations, in FY19, we were 
able to add almost 400 electric vehicles 
to our global fleet, resulting in more than 
2,944 electric vehicles in service by the end 
of the fiscal year, including forklifts, airport 
ground service equipment, and delivery 
trucks. We also anticipate the delivery of 
1,000 Chanje V8100 electric vehicles for 
use in California by FedEx Express during 
2020. These vehicles can travel more than 
150 miles when fully charged, potentially 
saving 2,000 gallons of fuel, avoiding 20 
metric tons of CO2e emissions per vehicle 
each year, while reducing maintenance 
costs. This represents a significant step in 
our efforts to continue the electrification 
of our fleet, especially for urban delivery, 
and reflects our multi-year commitment to 
electrification. 
Outside the U.S., FedEx Express has tested 
electric vehicles in China and Europe, with 
a view to strategically scale the adoption 
of commercially viable models in those 
markets. FedEx Express already has about 
100 electric vehicles in the Asia-Pacific 
region. A recent rule promulgated in China 
requires all charging to take place outside, 
temporarily affecting our electric vehicle 
expansion plans in that country.
Next Steps in Fleet Electrification
FedEx Express plans to complete an 
overarching, proactive electrification 
strategy and process that can be applied 
anywhere in the world. Once in place, this 
strategy will facilitate greater use of electric 
vehicles and meet differing regulatory 
requirements from city to city. The 
process also includes working with utilities 
to identify the infrastructure upgrades 
needed to meet the higher electricity demand, with partners that can build 
charging infrastructure, and with vehicle 
manufacturers to ensure availability of parts 
for service and repair. The final phase is 
improving on this electrification ecosystem 
with microgrids that can help to decrease 
demands on electric substations and  
enable charging at times that avoid peak 
energy costs. 
FedEx Freight also continues making 
research and development investments into 
electrification of the transportation sector, 
with special focus on truck capacity, range, 
and cost-efficiency compared to diesel 
engines. Plans continue at FedEx Freight to 
incorporate the Tesla Semi electric tractors 
into the fleet, which will require facility 
electricity infrastructure upgrades  
to simultaneously charge a fleet of large 
electric vehicles.
While FedEx Freight awaits production of 
the Tesla Class 8 trucks, electric hostlers 
are being evaluated. Hostlers have an 
advantage in that they are used only 
on FedEx premises and therefore avoid 
the challenges associated with range 
limitations. In addition, the limited number 
of hostlers at FedEx facilities makes 
charging requirements manageable. During 
FY19, FedEx Freight began pilot testing an 
electric hostler with positive results. Drivers 
appreciate the quiet and efficient operation, 
as well as the zero emissions. Future plans 
call for integrating the electric hostler 
with the FedEx Freight Yard Management 
System for seamless operation.Where independent service providers are 
part of our shipping network, we promote 
the use of electric vehicles and alternative 
fuels. At FedEx Ground, for instance, an 
electric vehicle charging pilot is currently 
underway and will be completed by the 
end of 2020. Through an arrangement with 
Charge Point, which owns and maintains 
the charging equipment, FedEx Ground 
contracted service providers will be able 
to charge their electric vehicles at two 
locations beginning in late 2020. This 
approach is similar to the model used for 
service providers who operate propane 
vehicles, for which FedEx Ground offers  
a propane fueling facility. 
See the Sustainable Facilities section  
in the Environment chapter for details  
on the ways we are beginning to upgrade 
our infrastructure with new technology  
and incorporate on-site solar installations  
to power a growing electric fleet.6969
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Alternative Vehicle Fleet
FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Alternative Fuel Vehicles 2,865 3,873 4,031
Hybrid 463 389 350
Electric 2,109 2,554 2,944
Compressed Natural Gas/Liquefied Natural Gas 220 331 217
Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) (Propane)*58 583 515
Hydrogen Fuel Cell 15 16 5
* Total does not include propane-powered forklifts. FY18 increase due to inclusion of on-road LPG vehicles at TNT.Alternative Fuels 
Across the FedEx enterprise, we continue 
using alternative fuels in our fleets, 
including biodiesel, compressed natural 
gas (CNG), propane, and hydrogen fuel 
cells. For instance, FedEx Ground sells 
biodiesel to contracted service providers 
for improved environmental performance. 
In FY19, approximately 72% of all diesel 
sold to service providers consisted of 
various biodiesel blends. Use of biodiesel 
avoided almost 77,000 metric tons of CO 2e 
emissions in FY19 through a network of fuel 
islands at most of our 84 locations. Beyond 
providing pre-blended biodiesel at most 
of our locations, 27 locations have on-site 
blending technology. We plan to expand the 
biodiesel fuel island network throughout 
the U.S. based on careful evaluation of each 
geography and extend the saving benefits 
of the fuel program. In FY19 we had 217 CNG and LNG vehicles 
in service, reducing diesel fuel use and 
emissions. FedEx Freight continues to 
monitor the development of natural gas 
vehicles and explore additional opportunities 
to add more to the fleet. However, the 
availability of natural gas engines capable 
of meeting our freight needs is limited. We 
have also evaluated the applicability of CNG 
vehicles to FedEx Express and determined 
that it is not a mainstream fuel in many 
places, retail infrastructure is lacking in many 
of our markets, and CNG does not have the 
potential to significantly improve the FedEx 
Express fleet efficiency for the smaller size 
vehicles used and the shorter distances 
traveled, compared to FedEx Freight.
Hydrogen fuel cell technology offers the 
potential for low-emission alternatives 
to traditional engines, and could provide 
excellent range for longer routes. FedEx 
Express operates three fuel cell cargo tugs 
at the Albany, New York airport hub and 
continues seeking extended-range electric 
vehicles, but fueling infrastructure remains 
an impediment. Urban Mobility Innovations 
As urban centers around the world become 
increasingly congested, FedEx is testing 
and applying even more innovative solutions 
to reduce the use of traditional vehicles 
and expand electric vehicles, bicycles, 
autonomous devices, and other last-mile 
delivery options. This includes developing 
cutting-edge last-mile delivery solutions that 
work within urban infrastructure constraints 
and minimize or eliminate emissions. 
Roxo™, the FedEx SameDay Bot, and use 
of drone technology, both tested during 
FY19, are two examples of last-mile delivery 
innovations that hold promise for navigating 
the challenges of urban centers and last-
mile delivery. See the Driving Innovation  
section in the Economy chapter for more.
Although traffic congestion and emissions 
are somewhat interdependent, we use 
different strategies to mitigate them. For 
instance, in China’s largest cities, where 
traffic can mean sitting at a standstill for 
hours, cities have an important role to play 
in upgrading infrastructure. FedEx Express 
is developing new delivery methods for 
urban locations that include having multiple 
foot, bike or small-vehicle couriers work 
from a single base, aided by innovative 
technology, to reduce the numbers of 
delivery vehicles entering and leaving the 
city. We also continue to evaluate emerging 
technologies that use artificial intelligence  
to connect vehicles to traffic lights and  
other infrastructure for route optimization.Improving City Logistics in Europe
In Europe, urban mobility is a highly variable 
issue from one city and country to the next. 
For example, each city maintains its own 
requirements to comply with EU emissions 
standards. In addition, some cities impose 
pedestrian- or bicycle-only areas. The 
presence of historic centers with narrow, 
cobbled, or one-way streets and waterways 
has brought new challenges in delivering  
to apartment residents in busy cities.
But commonalities can be found. FedEx 
Express has launched a series of urban 
logistics pilot programs in six major cities  
– Amsterdam, Frankfurt, London, Milan, 
Madrid, and Paris – to identify the best 
combination of mobility solutions for each 
type of urban center. These locations were 
selected in part because they include 
attributes that make them comparable to 
as many as 600 other cities across Europe, 
enabling us to scale the new solutions 
beyond the initial six pilot locations.
We are testing a variety of innovative 
options to determine what works best  
for each city’s circumstances, including 
electric vehicles, autonomous devices,  
and controlled access to car trunks, as well 
as options such as foot couriers; cargo 
bicycles with two, three, and four wheels; 
bicycles with trailers behind them; and 
potentially public transit systems to carry 
packages. The overarching objective is to 
deliver packages as safely, sustainably,  
and efficiently as possible using an 
intelligent logistics system that can be 
applied in many locations.Vehicle Efficiency (continued) 7070
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Sustainable Facilities 
Goal:
Seek Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certification 
on all new U.S. FedEx Express buildings  
and certified facilities.
Progress:
On track, with three additional 
LEED-certified facilities in FY19.The efficient operation of our 5,000+ air and ground hubs, local 
stations, freight service centers, and retail locations is critical to 
achieving our business and sustainability goals.
From efficient facility design and 
construction to state-of-the-art energy 
management and waste recycling practices, 
we are working to make our facilities more 
sustainable. Our operating companies 
improve efficiency in many ways, including 
by certifying facilities to external standards, 
where viable, that encompass a host of 
environmental criteria. These include:LEED
• FedEx Express has 22 LEED-certified 
facilities in the U.S., including its 
headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee, 
covering an area of 275,850 square meters. 
• FedEx Express has three LEED-certified 
facilities outside the U.S., including the 
FedEx Express International headquarters 
in Hoofddorp, Netherlands, which is 
certified LEED Platinum.
• FedEx Ground has six LEED-certified 
facilities in the U.S.
• The FedEx Office headquarters in Plano, 
Texas is LEED-certified. 
• FedEx Freight brought a new LEED-
certified facility online in Wisconsin during 
2019, the first for this operating company.
ISO 14001
• FedEx operates 606 facilities, primarily 
FedEx Express facilities, certified to the 
ISO 14001 environmental management 
system standard. 
• In addition, some of our international 
operations also have ISO 50001 
certification.
Other Facility  
Sustainability Programs 
The FedEx Ground EarthSmart® Champion 
program aims to increase employee 
participation and engagement in 
sustainability initiatives in every facility.  
The program continued to grow in FY19, 
with 640 EarthSmart champions, 490 
champion sites and 460 certified buildings. 
Going forward, FedEx Ground plans to 
house EarthSmart champion information in a customized cloud-based system that will 
make energy-saving and other sustainability 
information much more accessible to the 
FedEx Ground network. 
The FedEx Freight internal GREEN Site 
certification program, which recognizes 
facilities that complete actions like 
recycling and conserving energy to 
reduce environmental impacts, included 
all FedEx Freight sites in FY19. Every 
site also has at least one volunteer in the 
Local Environmental Action Facilitator 
Program. The program has more than 500 
environmental action facilitators working 
locally and another 32 at the district level, 
sharing knowledge across our network and 
working with facility leads to implement 
sustainability initiatives. 
Across all FedEx operating companies, our 
facility specifications include requirements 
that support sustainability, such as efficient 
LED lighting. Many facilities also feature 
daylighting through solar tubes, water-
saving plumbing fixtures, and recycled 
materials where appropriate. In FY19,  
FedEx Freight also updated its master 
facility specifications for new build-to-suit 
facilities to include water bottle filling 
stations and 20-amp receptacles for 
employees’ e-vehicles. And designated 
carpool parking to encourage employee 
carpooling is required at all new FedEx 
Ground facilities, which can help to  
reduce emissions from commuting.
254m
kilowatt-hours of energy 
saved in FY19 as a result 
of lighting retrofits and 
energy management180,321
metric tons CO2e emissions 
avoided in FY19 as a result  
of lighting retrofits and  
energy management 
7171
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Reduce and Replace
Lighting Retrofits
Energy efficiency is an important 
component of our sustainable facilities 
approach, reflecting our commitments to 
both reduce and replace. As in previous 
years, lighting retrofits – including upgrading 
to LED for interior and exterior lights and 
installing motion sensors and lighting control 
systems, among other upgrades – make 
up a large part of our energy efficiency 
projects. In FY19 we upgraded an additional 
17 facilities (16 FedEx Freight facilities and 
one FedEx Ground facility). Along with 
previous retrofits, these upgrades saved 
more than 254 million kWh of electricity 
and avoided 180,321 metric tons of CO 2e 
emissions in FY19. Since the program 
began in 2007, lighting retrofits at 1,130 
facilities have saved more than 1.4 billion 
kWh of electricity.
Our assessments have shown that the 
combination of LED lighting and motion 
sensors enhances efficiency as much as 
sophisticated control systems, so LED 
remains our primary lighting efficiency 
measure. Energy Management Systems
Centralized energy management systems 
contribute to our efficiency efforts by 
setting temperature controls to adjust 
for occupied and vacant building times, 
controlling lighting and identifying the most 
energy-intensive buildings and potential 
energy-saving opportunities. At FedEx 
Office, an energy management system 
has been deployed in more than 1,500 
stores. The system provides centralized 
control of HVAC equipment, significantly 
enhancing energy efficiency and our ability 
to diagnose and address sub-optimal 
system performance. During FY19, the 
energy management system resulted in 
energy savings of more than 22 million kWh 
of electricity, avoiding 16,200 metric tons of 
CO 2e, the equivalent of taking nearly 3,500 
cars off the road. Sustainable Facilities (continued) 
7272
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
 F Y17  FY18   FY19On-Site Solar Electricity Generation
23.4 million 
kilowatt-hours21 million  
kilowatt-hours20.8 million 
kilowatt-hours
Emissions Avoided
13,447 metric  
tons CO2e12,504 metric  
tons CO2e12,425 metric  
tons CO2eWith the addition of one new on-site solar 
installation during FY19, FedEx on-site solar 
generation capacity grew to more than  
23 million kWh in FY19. This is equivalent  
to the annual electricity consumption of 
2,753 homes. 
As renewable energy technology 
continues to evolve, we seek new ways 
to revolutionize our energy management 
approach. This includes greater investments 
in solar energy and fuel cell technology 
that we hope will allow us to create our 
own on-site microgrid pilots, although 
implementation remains several years away. 
In FY19, electricity generated by on-site 
fuel cells totaled 12.3 million kWh. Along 
with on-site solar, these revolutionary 
energy initiatives underscore our ongoing 
commitment to reducing emissions through 
best available technologies. FedEx Ground 
added a 1MW fuel cell in Middletown, 
Connecticut in FY19. Already, three FedEx 
facilities are powered by both fuel cells Revolutionize 
Renewable Energy 
Goal:
Expand on-site energy generation and 
continue to procure renewable energy  
for facilities.
Progress:
On track, with more than 23 million kWh 
generated in FY19.
Expanding on-site renewable energy 
generation and procuring renewable energy 
are ways we revolutionize our facilities. 
At 26 FedEx locations, renewable and 
alternative energy systems – including 
on- and off-site solar, as well as fuel cell 
technologies – generated over 36 million 
kWh of clean energy in FY19. These 
installations reduce GHG emissions 
and operating expenses, advance our 
renewable energy goals, and demonstrate 
industry leadership. and solar, and we have begun exploring 
the possibility of replacing diesel backup 
generators with on-site solar, fuel cells, 
combined heat and power technology, 
and energy storage. Together, these 
advancements could create a microgrid  
and provide a more efficient alternative  
to generators that, while historically 
necessary, remain largely unused.
In 2019, FedEx Ground reached its internal 
goal to purchase at least 5% renewable 
energy for facilities. We continue to closely 
monitor opportunities to purchase off-site 
renewable energy, although regulatory and 
accounting structures present obstacles. 
We currently purchase off-site renewable 
energy in Washington State and look for 
other locations where the practice is viable.
See the Data Appendix for details on our 
efficient facilities.
Microgrids and Solar Thermal 
FedEx Ground is also exploring the use of 
microgrids. This longer-term project aims 
to increase the resiliency of our operations 
and support emergency preparedness. 
Microgrid technology provides our facilities 
with the flexibility to connect to local 
grid power or to operate self-sufficiently. 
Efficiently keeping our facilities cool and 
safe for team members working in hot 
climates is another priority. 
At a FedEx Ground Florida facility, we are 
implementing an innovative way to cool 
trailers and improve team member comfort 
as they load packages. A roof-mounted 
solar tube array reduces the amount of 
compression needed by the air conditioner 
and improves energy efficiency by as 
much as 50%. Sustainable Facilities (continued) 
7373
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Sustainable Materials and Recycling 
As in the past, FedEx-branded packaging, 
which includes the recognizable envelopes 
and corrugated boxes that protect customer 
shipments in transit, remained the largest 
volume of material purchased in FY19.  
We also purchase other types of materials 
for our operations, such as vehicle 
maintenance supplies, de-icing fluids, 
pallets and paper used by FedEx Office. 
Responsible Packaging
Minimizing packaging and maximizing 
recycling volume conserves resources, 
reduces waste and improves transportation 
emissions efficiency. FedEx-branded 
packaging is 100% recyclable and 
composed of 45% recycled content.  
The third-party certified content percentage 
of our packaging materials reached 68%  
for FY19. This represents an increase  
of 13 percentage points over FY18. 
To reduce the potential for wasted 
packaging, we have approved packaging 
specifications and ordering allocations. 
Quarterly audits of our packaging suppliers 
further ensure branded packaging meets 
all specifications and guidelines. The 
FedEx Sourcing team evaluates each 
critical packaging supplier annually on 
environmental management practices, 
continuously monitoring and improving 
sustainability programs where possible. 
Optimizing packaging by making weight, 
size and content adjustments helps 
customers ship more efficiently, such as 
through dimensional, or dim, weight pricing 
based on package volume. This allows us to make the best use of space in our aircraft, 
vehicles, and distribution centers; improves 
loading efficiency; and reduces emissions. 
Dim weight pricing also encourages 
customers to make packaging adjustments 
that maximize product density and reduce 
packaging materials. FedEx Packaging 
Services works with customers to optimize 
package size and design, which reduces 
their costs and environmental impacts. 
Our packaging engineers assess existing 
packaging and recommend more efficient 
designs, followed by performance testing to 
make sure the redesigned packaging meets 
customer needs with just the right amount 
of material. We also work to make sure our 
customers’ packages are delivered free  
of any damage that could lead to a return 
and replacement.
Our packaging engineers work closely 
with customers to meet their design and 
sustainability objectives, whether that 
means using less polystyrene foam, less 
film to wrap an item or more recyclable 
packaging material. We also use a 
sustainability checklist to advise customers 
about curbside recycling limitations, 
right-sizing, ability to withstand heat and 
humidity and other considerations. Key to 
the success of new or modified packaging 
is making sure it can be efficiently sorted 
at our facilities. We test all packaging 
innovations to make sure they will not jam 
or get damaged on a conveyor. This not only 
protects customer items, but also avoids 
additional handling surcharges, keeping 
customer costs low.Some of our recent packaging innovation 
projects include supporting the testing and 
development of a customized container 
with a reuse lifespan of two years for 
temperature-sensitive and perishable items 
like food and wine, and a modular crate 
that can accommodate high-value content 
of different sizes. For more information 
about our packaging innovations, see the 
Economy  chapter. For details about the 
volume and percentages of packaging 
materials, paper, and other operational 
materials with recycled content, see the 
Data Appendix . 
7474
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
Sustainable Materials and Recycling (continued) 
Sustainable Paper
After corrugated packaging, paper 
represents our most used material, and the 
vast majority of our paper use takes place 
during printing operations at approximately 
2,100 FedEx Office locations. FedEx Office 
has implemented a variety of strategies to 
responsibly source, use, and recycle paper.
This includes engaging team members and 
customers in our sustainable practices, 
along with a forest-based paper product 
procurement policy that includes vendor 
requirements for responsible forest-
management practices. We purchase the 
vast majority of our paper from suppliers 
who are certified by sustainable forest 
programs, such as the Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC). In fact, 99.8% of all paper 
purchased by FedEx Office during FY19 
was third-party certified, including 89%  
that was FSC certified. 
In addition to purchasing our paper from 
certified forest programs, we continue 
to incorporate alternative fibers into our 
product mix. We continue purchasing “tree-
free” products, or those that use alternative 
fibers, like agricultural residues. We plan to 
continue researching these alternatives and 
others to ensure the continued reduction of 
our environmental footprint associated with 
paper. In addition to paper, FedEx Office 
carries sustainable options for our signs and 
graphics offerings used by large commercial 
customers, hotels and convention centers. 
Several FedEx Office signs and graphics 
product offerings have environmental 
benefits, including sustainably certified 
banners and large format rolls, recyclable 
banners and media boards, and eco-friendly 
surface graphics, among others.In FY19, 59% of the solid waste generated 
in our operations was sent to recyclers. 
Our operating companies use a variety of 
waste reduction and recycling strategies to 
maximize waste diversion for their unique 
operations. For example, in FY19, FedEx 
Ground diverted 83.5% of waste through an 
efficient separation and recycling program 
for cardboard, plastic, and pallets at every 
FedEx Ground facility in the U.S. Some 
smaller FedEx Ground facilities send their 
recyclable items to a larger facility where 
they are combined and picked up for 
recycling using a single-vendor approach. 
This limits the number of facilities visited 
to pick up recyclables and provides FedEx 
Ground teams with a single point of contact 
for added efficiency. 
In addition, FedEx Ground reduced waste 
further by eliminating the core on plastic 
film – widely used to wrap and secure 
packages – and replacing it with a reusable 
core at 35 FedEx SmartPost® locations. 
Roughly 800,000 cardboard cores will 
no longer be recycled or sent to landfills 
each year, which is equal to diverting 
almost 1.2 million pounds of paper. In 
addition, this film is 28% thinner than its 
predecessors, making it easier for team 
members to handle. Estimated annual cost 
savings have exceeded $500,000. During 
FY19, this project was honored by the 
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council 
for excellence and innovation in sustainable 
procurement practices. For more information about our supplier 
purchasing policies, please see the Our 
CSR Strategy chapter. For the percentages 
of FSC and other third-party certified 
sustainable paper used by FedEx Office 
year-over-year, see the Data Appendix .
FedEx Office also aims to make it easy for 
our customers to reduce their own materials 
use and increase recycling. FedEx Office® 
Print Online, for instance, allows commercial 
customers to print locally, avoiding 
unnecessary shipping and enabling them to 
preview projects before production, which 
reduces wasted pages. Our longstanding 
paper shredding and recycling service 
allows customers to bring any documents, 
including sensitive items such as tax 
returns, to a FedEx Office location and have 
them securely and confidentially shredded, 
then recycled. During FY19, almost 10 
million pounds of paper were shredded 
and recycled. Providing customers with 
sustainable paper options is also essential, 
so FedEx Office stocks clearly labeled, 
sustainably-sourced paper options  
for purchase.
Waste and Recycling
As our business grows to meet the 
accelerating demands of e-commerce 
and other shipping needs, our waste 
management strategies help ensure we 
recycle more of the waste produced in our 
facilities. We also encourage customers to 
recycle our packaging and are researching 
options for reusable FedEx-branded 
packaging as well.For details about the volume of waste 
generated, recycled and landfilled year-over-
year across FedEx operating companies, 
see the Data Appendix . Included are:
• Solid waste
• Hazardous waste
• Non-hazardous regulated waste
• Universal waste
• Electronic waste
7575
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
The FedEx Ground Sustainability Journey
In 2013, FedEx Ground unveiled an ambitious 
set of sustainability goals focused on 
renewable energy, alternative fuels, energy 
efficiency, and waste diversion. Since then, 
FedEx Ground has integrated sustainability 
in its operations and among service 
providers, achieving all five goals almost a 
year ahead of schedule. Strong leadership 
and engagement through the FedEx 
Ground EarthSmart Champion Program 
drove this success and helped to transform 
the culture. The program has increased 
sustainability awareness and provided 
a platform for employees to identify 
innovative solutions, improve operational 
efficiencies, and lead change. 
Alternative Fuels
Goal:
Replace 10% of diesel with alternative  
fuels by 2020.
Progress:
12.3% of diesel displaced with  
alternative fuels.
FedEx Ground helps to increase alternative 
fuel accessibility for our service providers 
through fuel islands. Our fuel island 
network has enabled our service providers 
to maintain a network of more than 180 
alternative fuel vehicles. Energy Efficiency
Goal:
Improve energy efficiency to reduce 
electricity use 20% by 2020.
Progress:
33% reduction in electricity use.
Energy efficiency is central to our overall 
sustainability strategy. FedEx Ground helped 
to champion our energy efficiency efforts 
and saved 82.6 million kWh of energy 
through efficiency efforts. Beyond energy 
savings, these efficiency initiatives have 
helped to increase team member comfort, 
safety, and yard visibility. 
Waste Diversion
Goal:
Divert 80% of waste from landfill  
by 2020.
Progress:
81.6% of waste diverted from landfill. 
FedEx Ground achieved an impressive 
waste diversion rate of pallets, plastic, 
cardboard, and metal due to employee 
engagement. The FedEx EarthSmart 
Champion Program provides ongoing 
engagement, with committed employees 
throughout the network driving progress  
on this goal.Renewable Energy
Goal:
5% renewable energy by 2020.
Progress:
5.4% renewable energy in 2019.
FedEx Ground surpassed this goal 
by growing the renewable energy 
infrastructure. Today, the company has 
15 locations using solar energy in their 
operations. These include on-site solar 
installations, along with one facility in 
Spokane, Washington that receives all of 
its electricity from energy produced by a 
nearby solar farm, and the Maui, Hawaii 
facility that features a solar-plus-storage 
system providing almost 100% of the 
facility’s electricity needs.OUR CSR STRATEGY/ECONOMY
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE(i)FY17 FY18 FY19
Revenue ($B) $60.32 $65.45 $69.69 
Operating Income ($M) $4,566 $4,272 $4,466 
Operating Margin 7.6% 6.5% 6.4%
Net Income ($M) $2,997 $4,572 $540 
Diluted EPS $11.07 $16.79 $2.03 
Capital Expenditures ($B) $5.12 $5.66 $5.49 
(i) For more information, see our 2019 Annual Report.
STAKEHOLDER VALUE-ADDED TABLE FY17 FY18 FY19
Dividends Paid to Shareholders ($M)(i)$426 $535 $683 
Salaries and Employee Benefits ($B)(i)$21.99 $23.80 $24.78 
Community Investments ($M)(ii)$65.30 $64.12 $62.40 
(i) For more information, see our 2019 Annual Report.
(ii) This includes cash, in-kind and United Way team member contributions.Data Appendix
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
7676
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
SUPPLY CHAIN FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Number of Suppliers Participating in RFx Event 281 386 508
Total Number of Suppliers Asked Sustainability Questions in RFx Event 206 300 436
% Suppliers Screened with Sustainability RFx Questions 73% 78% 86%
Diverse Supplier Spending ($B) $9.1 $9.6 $12.3
Minority-owned Businesses (% of total diverse supplier spend) 12% 15% 12%
Women-owned Businesses (% of total diverse supplier spend) 9% 9% 8%
Other Small Businesses (% of total diverse supplier spend) 79% 76% 80%
Minority-owned Businesses ($B) $1.10  $1.40 $1.50 
Minority Spend by Demographic (%)
Hispanic 30% 23% 28%
African American 27% 30% 30%
South Asian Indian 13% 4% 5%
Asian 4% 5% 4%
Other/Not Disclosed(i)26% 38% 33%
(i) This includes Native American, which was <1% of data reported.
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS & VOLUNTEERISM FY17 FY18 FY19
Cash Grants ($M) $49.30 $47.78 $53.78 
Corporate Charitable Shipping ($M) $5.25 $6.94 $7.70 
Corporate Marketing and FedEx Express In-kind Donations ($M) $0.90 $0.42 $0.93 
Total Company Direct Charitable Contributions ($M) $55.45 $55.14 $62.41 
Team Member Contributions to United Way Campaign ($M) $9.85 $8.98 $11.41 
TOTAL ($M) $65.30 $64.12 $73.82 
FEDEX CARES VOLUNTEERISM FY17 FY18 FY19
Total # FedEx Volunteers 21,650 13,016 24,684 
Total # Volunteer Hours 111,200 81,976 105,845
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
7777
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
PEOPLE
HEADCOUNT BY GLOBAL REGION FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Headcount 404,336 426,530 444,770
U.S. (%) 70% 69% 71%
Europe (%) 12% 11% 11%
Asia Pacific (APAC) (%) 7% 7% 7%
Latin America, Caribbean (LAC) (%) 6% 8% 6%
Canada (%) 3% 3% 3%
Middle East, Indian Subcontinent and Africa (MEISA) (%) 2% 2% 2%
Full-time Employees – Global Workforce(i)N/R 243,226 259,666
Part-time Employees – Global Workforce(i)N/R 134,000 145,064
Full-time Employees – U.S. Workforce 160,732 169,795 181,940
Part-time Employees – U.S. Workforce 118,879 123,526 132,501
(i) Excludes TNT Express employees.
TEAM MEMBER CAREER DEVELOPMENT FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Average Training Hours (does not include TNT Express) 19.38 19.07 37.51
Management 22.58 38.68 45.67
Non-management 19.11 17.50 36.33
U.S. WORKFORCE DIVERSITY FY17 FY18 FY19
Caucasian 50.1% 49.2% 47.7%
Black/African American 28.7% 29.0% 29.4%
Hispanic/Latin 14.5% 15.3% 15.9%
Asian 4.3% 4.0% 3.9%
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0.6% 0.6% 0.6%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0.5% 1.3% 0.5%
Other 1.3% 0.5% 2.0%
Minorities in U.S. Management 34.3% 35.5% 36.6%
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
7878
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
WORKFORCE GENERATIONAL DIVERSITY FY17 FY18 FY19
Global Workforce(i)
Under 30 Years of Age N/R 29% 26%
30-50 Years of Age N/R 46% 61%
Over 50 Years of Age N/R 25% 13%
U.S. Workforce
Under 30 Years of Age 29% 30% 31%
30-50 Years of Age 41% 42% 40%
Over 50 Years of Age 30% 28% 29%
(i) FY18 excludes TNT Express, FedEx Europe, and MEISA regions.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (not including TNT Express) FY17 FY18 FY19
New Hire Data
Total New Hires 163,755 200,411 105,788
New Hire Rate 47% 53% 26%
Male % of New Hires 67% 66% 66%
Female % of New Hires 33% 34% 34%
Employee Turnover Data 
Total Turnover 142,805 191,917 120,668
Turnover Rate 41% 51% 30%
Male % of Turnover 67% 65% 65%
Female % of Turnover 33% 35% 35%
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
7979
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
GLOBAL HEADCOUNT BY GENDER (not including TNT Express) FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Employees 349,456 377,226 403,631
Total Male Employees 249,674 269,824 288,340
Male % of Headcount 71% 72% 71%
Total Female Employees 99,782 107,052 115,291
Female % of Headcount 29% 28% 29%
Management Employees 27,200 28,559 30,381
Male % Management Employees 78% 78% 77%
Female % Management Employees 22% 22% 23%
Non-Management Employees 322,256 348,667 373,250
Male % Non-management Employees 71% 71% 71%
Female % Non-management Employees 29% 29% 29%
GLOBAL SAFETY DATA(i)FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Lost Time Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours worked)(ii)3.33 3.34 3.88
North America (U.S./Canada) 3.68 3.89 4.71 
Rest of the World (includes TNT Express) 2.51 2.21 2.34
Lost Time Injuries % Male(iii)66% 66% 66%
Lost Time Injuries % Female(iii)34% 34% 34%
Total Number of Employee Fatalities (work-related)(iv)7 7 10
(i) Does not include independent contractors working on behalf of FedEx. 
(ii)  Per 200,000 hours worked; Lost Time Injury means a nonfatal traumatic injury that causes any loss of time from work beyond the day or shift it occurred; or a nonfatal nontraumatic illness/disease that causes disability at any time. 
Global LTIR data is based on definitions from the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
(iii)  For % Male and % Female breakouts: FedEx Express Europe and TNT Express are not included. FedEx Supply Chain division is only included in FY17.
(iv) GRI definition: the death of a worker occurring in the current reporting period, arising from an occupational injury or disease sustained or contracted while in the organization’s employ.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8080
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
ENVIRONMENT
DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TERAJOULES) FY17 FY18 FY19
Direct Energy Consumption
Aircraft Fuel
Jet Fuel(i)160,399 168,804 172,446
Vehicle Fuel(ii)
Diesel 36,867 42,989 43,081
Renewable Biodiesel (% of total diesel) 4,067 (11%) 4,019 (9%) 6,975 (9%)
Gasoline 3,489 3,385 3,517
Renewable Ethanol (% of total gasoline) 4.4 (0.13%) 2.3 (0.07%) 2.8 (0.08%)
Propane 870 954 1,030
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) 146 156 149
Facility Use
Natural Gas 5,727 6,797 7,808
Heating Oil 52 38 33
Total Direct Energy Consumption (terajoules) 207,550 223,123 228,064
Indirect Energy Consumption 
Facility Electricity Use
Purchased Electricity 7,988 8,461 8,077
Purchased Heating 61 N/R 0
Purchased Cooling 2 2 0.5
Total Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 8,051 8,463 8,077
Total Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 215,601 231,586 236,142
Other Indirect Energy Consumption 
Contracted Transportation 36,068 38,179 41,969
Total Other Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 36,068 38,179 41,969
(i)  Currently none of the jet fuel consumed is sourced from alternative or sustainable feedstocks. See page 65 for progress on our goal to obtain 30% of jet fuel from alternative sources by 2030.
(ii)  Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities. The terajoules reported for biodiesel and ethanol are based on blended gallons of both fuel types consumed during those fiscal years.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8181
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONS CO 2e) FY17 FY18 FY19
Direct Energy Consumption (Scope 1)
Aircraft Fuel
Jet Fuel 10,889,010 11,467,497 11,692,918
Vehicle Fuel(i)
Diesel 2,582,237 3,049,466 3,020,199
Gasoline 241,331 235,226 242,740
Propane 50,535 55,432 59,850
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) 7,625 8,153 7,810
Facility Use
Natural Gas 278,650 333,844 379,953 
Heating Oil 4,211 2,765 2,703
Total Direct Emissions (Scope 1) (metric tons CO 2e) 14,053,599 15,152,383 15,406,173
Indirect Energy Consumption (Scope 2)
Facility Energy Use
Purchased Electricity 1,093,006 1,049,902 995,965
Purchased Heating 1,012 N/R 0
Purchased Cooling 91 85 22
Total Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 2) (metric tons CO 2e) 1,094,109 1,049,987 995,988
Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions(ii)1,094,867 1,049,987 995,988
Total Direct and Indirect Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) (metric tons CO 2e)(iii)15,147,708 16,202,370 16,402,161
Other Indirect Energy Consumption (Scope 3)
Contracted Transportation(iv)2,571,006 2,740,531 3,020,239
Team Member Business Travel 71,409 80,434 79,054
Total Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) (metric tons CO 2e) 2,642,415 2,820,965 3,099,293
Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) (metric tons CO 2e) 17,790,123 19,023,335 19,501,454
(i) Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
(ii)  Based on comprehensive assessment performed for FY17, we determined the difference between Location- and Market-based Scope 2 emissions is de minimis at the present time. Therefore, we are reporting the same value for 
both metrics in FY18. 
(iii) Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions data was externally verified  by Cventure LLC.
(iv)  Includes CO2e emissions from: (1) fuel sold by FedEx Ground to independent pickup-and-delivery and linehaul contractors through on-site fueling facilities, or purchased by independent linehaul contractors through retail outlets using fleet 
fuel cards, (2) fuel used by FedEx Freight contractors in Canada, (3) allocated portion of fuel burned by commercial interline aircraft carriers in support of FedEx Express international shipping, and (4) contracted intermodal rail at FedEx 
Freight and FedEx Ground.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8282
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
ENERGY & EMISSIONS INTENSITY FY17 FY18 FY19
Consolidated Revenue ($M) $60,319 $65,450 $69,693 
Total Energy Intensity (terajoules/$M) 4.17 4.12 3.99
Total Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & 2) (metric tons CO 2e/$M revenue) 251.13 247.55 235.35
Total Emissions Intensity (Scope 1, 2, & 3) (metric tons CO 2e/$M revenue) 294.93 290.65 279.82
DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS: GHG EQUIVALENCY BREAKDOWN (METRIC TONS CO 2e) FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Direct Energy Emissions (Scope 1)(i)
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 13,889,862 14,772,355 15,252,870
Methane (CH 4) 6,862 7,287 5,182
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 136,202 156,547 138,380
Total Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 2)
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 1,087,006 1,042,938 989,008
Methane (CH 4) 2,397 1,965 2,104
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 4,705 5,084 4,876
Total Direct and Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 1 & 2)(ii)
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 14,976,868 15,815,293 16,241,878
Methane (CH 4) 9,259 9,252 7,286
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 140,907 161,631 143,256
(i)  FY17 and FY18 data does not include TNT Express vehicle fuel emissions as we did not get those emissions broken out by GHGs in those fiscal years. FY18 and FY19 data also does not include vehicle CNG/LNG usage as those 
GHGs were not broken out separately either in those fiscal years.
(ii)  The total values reported for FY17 in last year’s report were incorrect due to a calculation error.
OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR POLLUTANTS (METRIC TONS)(i)FY17 FY18 FY19
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)(i)71,443 75,143 74,526
Sulfur Oxides (SOx)(ii)10,269 10,807 11,050
Particulate Matter (PM10)(i)800 839 764
(i) NOx and PM10 data does not include vehicle fleet outside the U.S. and Canada.
(ii) SOx data does not include TNT Express vehicle fleet.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8383
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
FUEL- AND ENERGY-SAVING INITIATIVES Energy saved (terajoules) CO 2e emissions avoided (metric tons)
Energy Saved (terajoules) FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19
On-site Solar Electricity Generation 75 76 85 12,425 12,504 13,447
Facility Energy Efficiency Initiatives(i, ii)793 828 915 164,018 171,252 179,638
FedEx Fuel Sense (jet fuel) 12,510 13,436 15,571 849,183 912,023 1,054,418
FedEx Express Aircraft Fleet Modernization 12,705 15,591 19,992 862,420 1,058,368 1,355,852
FedEx Express Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize Vehicle Efficiency 3,113 3,401 3,627 219,714 240,171 255,666
FedEx Freight Intermodal Rail Usage 3,408 3,787 4,022 264,296 296,511 281,278
Total Energy Saved/ Emissions Avoided 32,604 37,119 44,211 2,372,056 2,690,828 3,140,299
(i) Facility energy efficiency initiatives includes building lighting retrofits and energy management systems.
(ii) CO2e calculated using the EPA GHG Calculator. FY19 emissions uses EPA GHG Calculator's updated emission factors
GLOBAL ALTERNATIVE VEHICLE FLEET  FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Alternative Vehicles 2,865 3,873 4,031
Hybrid 463 389 350
Electric 2,109 2,554 2,944
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) 220 331 217
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (propane)(i)58 583 515
Hydrogen Fuel Cell 15 16 5
(i) Total does not include propane-powered forklifts. FY18 increase due to inclusion of on-road LPG vehicles at TNT.
FACILITIES OVERVIEW FY17 FY18 FY19
Number of ISO 14001 Certified Sites(i)650 561 606
Number of FedEx Express LEED Buildings in U.S.(ii)14 19 22
Number of FedEx Freight GREEN Site-designated Facilities 486 490 490
Number of FedEx Ground Sustainability Champion-designated Facilities 248 460 460
(i)  The majority of ISO 14001 certified facilities are at FedEx Express. The FY18 decrease is due to the lapse in certifications for former TNT Express sites in the United Kingdom and Ireland that were undergoing recertification.  
These sites have since been recertified. 
(ii) There are other LEED facilities as well: FedEx Express International (3 sites), FedEx Ground (6 sites), FedEx Freight (1 site), and FedEx Office (1 site).
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8484
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
SOLAR ENERGY FY17 FY18 FY19
Number of On-site Solar Energy Systems Companywide 20 23 24
Solar Electricity Generated On-site (kWh) 20,832,023 21,041,856 23,488,859
Emissions Avoided by Solar Sites (metric tons CO 2e) 12,425 12,504 13,447
MATERIALS CONSUMPTION & RECYCLED CONTENT FY17 FY18 FY19
Packaging Materials(i)
Total Packaging (metric tons) 66,833 66,495 57,110
% of Packaging from Recycled Content 44% 41% 45%
% of Packaging from Third-party Certified Content 60% 55% 68%
Paper
FedEx Office Copy and Print Paper (metric tons)(ii)18,137 16,947 16,768
% of Paper from Recycled Content 5% 10% 14%
Other Operational Materials (solids)
Total Other Operational Materials (solids – metric tons) 20,238 18,879 19,580
% of Other Operational Materials (solids) from Recycled Content 56% 61% 65%
Total Solid Materials Used (metric tons) 110,538 109,630 93,630
Other Operational Materials (fluids – liters) 6,738,515 6,565,694 6,460,394
(i) In addition to cardboard, other materials used in shipping include bubble pack, plastic air pillows, chipboard, Tyvek® envelopes, and packaging tape.
(ii)  The vast majority of paper usage at FedEx is for commercial copy and print services at our FedEx Office operating company in the U.S. Therefore we are only reporting FedEx Office Copy and Print paper usage, as we consider paper 
usage at other operating companies to be immaterial.
FEDEX OFFICE PAPER CERTIFICATION (%)(i)FY17 FY18 FY19
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 87.6% 88.0% 88.8%
Other Third-party(ii)12.0% 11.7% 10.9%
Non-certified 0.4% 0.3% 0.2%
(i) This refers to the paper used for printing operations at FedEx Office, which is the vast majority of our paper use across the enterprise.
(ii) Includes SFI/PEFC, Tree Free, ISO 14001, Green Seal, Wind Power, and Carbon Neutral.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8585
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
WASTE AND RECYCLING (metric tons)(i)FY17 FY18 FY19
Total Waste Generated 287,219 291,059 453,629
Sent to Recyclers 203,550 228,311 266,981
% Sent to Recyclers 71% 78% 59%
Landfilled 83,669 62,748 186,648
Total Solid Waste (non-regulated/trash) 275,988 280,715 361,299
Sent to Recyclers 198,353 223,003 258,543
% Sent to Recyclers 72% 79% 72%
Landfilled 77,635 57,712 100,143
Total Hazardous Waste (regulated) 1,023 892 1,990
Sent to Recyclers 338 172 417
% Sent to Recyclers 33% 19% 21%
Landfilled 686 721 1,573
Total Non-hazardous Regulated Waste (regulated) 9,486 8,583 89,422
Sent to Recyclers 4,137 4,267 7,103
% Sent to Recyclers 44% 50% 8%
Landfilled 5,348 4,315 82,319
Total Universal Waste(ii)38 37 40
Sent to Recyclers 38 37 40
% Sent to Recyclers 100% 100% 100%
Landfilled 0 0 0
Total Electronic Waste 684 832 878
Sent to Recyclers 684 832 878
% Sent to Recyclers 100% 100% 100%
Landfilled 0 0 0
(i)  Waste at many of our facilities is difficult to track because it is collected by haulers contracted by a landlord or local municipality, or commingled with other tenants’ waste in shared facilities such as airports and strip malls, and as such 
has not been included in this data.
(ii) Universal waste encompasses certain hazardous waste items, including batteries and mercury-containing lamp bulbs, as defined by U.S. EPA regulations.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8686
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FY17 FY18 FY19
Number of Significant Spills(i)134 154 171
Number of Monetary Violations From External Agencies 2 3 3
Total Amount of Monetary Violations $1,119 $35,840 $5,280 
(i) Defined as spills of hazardous materials like oil, fuel, and chemicals that are reportable to the appropriate environmental regulatory agency, such as the U.S. National Response Center. Data only includes operations in the U.S.
Cautionary Note
Certain statements in this report may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management’s views with respect to future events and financial 
performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or 
from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in fuel prices; evolving or new 
U.S. domestic or international government regulation; our ability to meet certain goals relating to aircraft emissions, vehicle fuel efficiency, alternative fuels, and renewable energy, 
and aircraft and vehicle fleet modernization; challenges inherent with the development of new technologies; our ability to realize the cost savings expected from certain initiatives and 
other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.’s and its subsidiaries’ press releases and FedEx Corp.’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking 
statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We do not undertake or assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise.
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
8787
2020 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 
Our CSR Strategy Economy People Environment Data Appendix
FedEx Corporation 
942 South Shady Grove Road
Memphis, Tennessee 38120
Please visit sustainability.fedex.com .