2016 Global 
Citizenship Report
Deliver It ForwardChairman’s Letter
Pages 4–5
Economy
Pages 6–41
Environment
Pages 42–81
People
Pages 82–107
Deliver It Forward
Pages 108–113
GRI Index
pdfDeliver It
Forward
 
Delivering is our business.
Delivering positive impact 
is our responsibility.
Empowering people to 
deliver it forward is our passion.
2
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -About This 
Report
Our annual global citizenship report 
covers FedEx enterprisewide strategies, 
goals, programs and progress across 
three key pillars: Economy, Environment and People. 
Data in this report covers each of our 
operating companies and all geographies 
in our 2015 fiscal year, which ended May 
31, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
This report references the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 framework and contains Standard Disclosures 
from the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines, which are listed in this index. 
3
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -A connected world is a 
more sustainable and prosperous world 
Every day FedEx pilots span continents, 
our drivers criss-cross countries, package 
handlers sort millions of shipments, 
and customer service reps answer thousands of calls. Each one of our 
more than 340,000 team members takes 
responsibility for not only moving the goods and resources that fuel global 
commerce, but also for helping make the 
world a better place to live — now and in the future. A Letter from 
Frederick W. Smith
We see our job of connecting the 
world and our responsibility as global 
citizens as one and the same. When we 
help businesses access new markets, they grow and create jobs that boost 
standards of living in their communities. 
A more connected world sparks innovation when shared ideas, goods, 
and technologies interact to transform 
how we live and work. 
A bold commitment to  
our communities
Since FedEx was founded, we’ve 
supported our communities through 
team member volunteer efforts and 
financial contributions. We are now taking a longer view. We’ve challenged 
ourselves to place our investments 
where they can make the most difference to the world. 
On behalf of our customers and 
communities, FedEx is pleased to 
announce an expanded, targeted FedEx 
Cares program. We will invest $200 million in more than 200 communities 
by 2020 to create richer opportunities 
for positive change around the world. Our priorities are specific but wide-
ranging: We will continue to empower 
entrepreneurs, develop sustainable transportation, create employment 
pathways for the underserved, make 
roads safer, and deliver resources —particularly for disasters — where they’re 
needed most.  
Two issues, fundamentally linked, are at 
the heart of our FedEx strategy: Trade, 
which is how our customers participate and compete in the global economy, and Energy, the essential resource needed to power global commerce.
Removing barriers  
to trade       
We know from history that trade 
accelerates when it’s easy. As global 
connections have evolved and thrived, 
the planet is vastly more connected and prosperous. Communities are 
stronger and more resilient. Our lives 
are richer, filled with greater choice and opportunity. 
But we have more to do if we are to 
break out of the current pattern of slow 
global economic growth.  We know 
first-hand how customs processes and conflicting trade rules make it tough for 
small and medium-sized businesses to 
compete in international commerce. Our priorities align with theirs: Make trade 
more efficient by simplifying regulations 
and getting rid of red tape that wastes precious resources, time, and capital. 
Our vision to connect the world 
responsibly means we advocate policies 
and agreements that support open and 
efficient trade. In the past year, this included the Transatlantic Trade and 
Investment Partnership (TTIP), and the 
Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). These ambitious agreements will unlock new 
opportunities to accelerate job growth 
and global commerce. 
4
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Sustainable energy makes 
trade more efficient
As a heavy user of fossil fuels, we 
know how important it is to reduce our 
consumption and make trade-related 
energy more sustainable. Respect for our environment makes this an imperative. 
And reducing reliance on oil lessens the 
market volatility that slows growth.
Many years ago, FedEx had the foresight 
to participate in research that explored innovative sources of energy. We realized 
it would be years before alternative jet 
fuels could be produced in the quantity we needed at a competitive cost. But 
in 2009, we committed to obtaining 
30 percent of our aviation fuel from alternative sources by 2030. We’re 
looking forward to receiving our first 
shipment of aviation biofuel in 2017 , and through 2024 we expect to use at least  
48 million gallons of blended fuel  
(6 million per year) at our hub in Oakland, California. 
This important milestone is the result 
of a long-term agreement to purchase 
biofuel from Red Rock Biofuels. We’re 
proud to work with this innovative company, which converts scrap and 
forest waste to make fuel. The process 
contributes to smart forest management practices that reduce the intensity of 
forest fires. Innovations like this have 
the potential to help farmers and communities around the world turn 
waste into a new form of clean energy. 
Helping others replicate a waste-to-biofuel model could create sustainable 
local industries and new jobs near 
airports around the world. As the Roman statesman and 
philosopher Marcus Aurelius once said: 
“The universe is change. ” We couldn’t agree more. We believe the strategies 
we’ve implemented, the goals we’ve set, 
and the progress we’ve made continue to change lives for the better. Thanks to 
the efforts of our FedEx team members 
around the world, we will continue to deliver the future for generations  
to come.
Frederick W. Smith
FedEx Corporation Chairman  
and CEO
“We see our job of connecting the
world and our 
responsibility as global citizens as one and the same. When 
we help businesses 
access new markets, they grow and create 
jobs that boost 
standards of living in their communities. 
A more connected 
world sparks innovation when 
shared ideas, goods, 
and technologies interact to transform 
how we live and 
work.
5
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Economy
All routes lead to FedEx. FedEx connects 
more than 99 percent of global GDP and billions of people across six continents. This global reach provides a unique opportunity for us to deliver positive impact around the world and to empower the people we serve — individuals, communities and businesses large and small — to deliver it forward. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
6What does a high 
school principal in 
South Africa have 
in common with a supply chain expert 
in Hong Kong?
7
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Last year, we 
improved our 
average high school 
examination results from 61 to 80 
percent. So having 
the solar power system has really 
worked wonders, 
after just one year.““Most of our students are from highly disadvantaged families, living on farms with no access to electricity. So the 
internet school has made a huge impact. 
Our learners are now leaving high school with at least some computer literacy. 
At school, they can use the internet 
for lessons and access information that the teachers couldn’t in the past. 
They also come here in the evenings 
to study and use the computers. Last year, we improved our average high 
school examination results from 61 to 
80 percent. So having the solar power system has really worked wonders, after 
just one year.
“Unemployment is very high in this area, 
so I want the school to produce learners 
that don’t depend on being employed by someone else. Learners that create their 
own jobs like maybe start an internet 
café. I would also like to expand the 
school to provide skills development for 
unemployed people in the community. ”Christina Tjiana is principal of a solar-
powered high school in the village of Sokhulumi, South Africa.Off-grid infrastructure company T elenetix designed the school, housed in a former shipping container, using Schneider Electric technology.
Christina Tjiana
High School Principal, Sokhulumi, 
South Africa
8
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -In 2015, we 
engineered more 
than 14 solar-powered 
containerized systems using 
Schneider Electric 
technology. They are currently deployed 
as schools, mobile 
medical and dental clinics and mobile 
police stations across 
southern Africa.“
Johan WolmaransChief Design Engineer, TelenetixJohan Wolmarans, Chief Design 
Engineer at T elenetix, reinvents shipping containers as mobile solar-powered schools, data centers, health clinics and even police stations — increasing quality of life in  African villages.
“Shipping containers lend themselves 
well to building applications in Africa, 
where the lack of infrastructure requires 
solutions that are highly adaptable and portable. Since containers are modular 
and easy to ship, we can build one in our 
factory and deliver it fully operational to a rural community within a few weeks. 
“Many areas throughout Africa still 
lack grid electricity. This holds entire 
communities back from accessing 
technologies such as online education, agricultural information and electronic 
banking. That’s why integrating reliable 
solar energy into our systems is so important, bringing both electricity and 
internet access. 
“In 2015, we engineered more than 14 
solar-powered containerized systems 
using Schneider Electric technology. They are currently deployed as schools, 
mobile medical and dental clinics and 
mobile police stations across southern Africa. Schneider Electric’s solar products are not only flexible to our unique 
needs but also provide the quality and 
reliability demanded by Africa’s harsh environments. In 2016, we are excited 
to use this same technology to develop 
modular water-purification systems. ”
9
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Annette Clayton 
Chief Supply Chain Officer, Schneider 
Electric, Hong KongFedEx is involved 
with basically 
every business of 
Schneider Electric, helping us stay ahead 
by innovating and 
maximizing efficiency in our supply chain.“Schneider Electric brings clean 
energy to off-grid communities. Annette Clayton, Chief Supply Chain Officer, based in Hong Kong, describes Schneider’s vision for solving the global energy challenge, with support from FedEx.
“The competing challenges of energy 
demand and sustainable development 
are unprecedented. Globally, 1.3 
billion people are deprived of access to electricity, which at Schneider we 
consider a basic human right. 
“To bring light to off-grid communities, 
87 percent of which are in Sub-Saharan 
Africa and South Asia, we design affordable solar solutions for village 
electrification, actively involving local 
stakeholders. For example, our award-winning solar-powered LED lamp, 
Mobiya, can be positioned seven ways to 
adapt to daily tasks. Globally, we deploy smart, connected technologies that 
enable customers to do more with  
less energy.
“Many of our product lines are among 
the most advanced in the world, and our industry is changing every day. FedEx is 
involved with basically every business of 
Schneider Electric, helping us stay ahead by innovating and maximizing efficiency 
in our supply chain. “For example, they support shorter end-
to-end lead times thanks to more efficient 
upstream movement, which allow us to 
test products faster, innovate faster and reach our customers first.  The results 
are tangible both for our customers and 
our business. The FedEx relationship brought us delivery efficiency and higher 
customer satisfaction in 2015. ” 
10
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Jill Brannon, Senior Vice President 
of International Sales at FedEx, describes how FedEx supports longstanding customers like Schneider Electric through business practices that drive economic growth and empower communities.
“This is a transformative time for FedEx. 
We are working with our customers to 
optimize and innovate across their value 
chains. In an interconnected world, our global reach has an enormous impact in 
helping customers reach new markets, 
scale their growth — and do good. 
“More than ever, corporate responsibility 
and running a successful business go 
hand in hand. We are deepening our 
relationship with customers by helping them develop solutions that not only 
meet their logistics and transportation 
needs but also meet sustainability goals such as energy efficiency, recycling or 
carbon targets. And we are opening 
doors for them to deliver socially and environmentally beneficial products 
and services to more markets, including 
emerging economies that urgently  need them.
“With Schneider Electric, for example, 
we share a passion for sustainable energy solutions that can make a 
difference to millions of lives. Both 
our businesses are about building better communities, and between their 
innovative energy solutions and our 
global network, we reinforce each  other’s strengths. “This is only one example of so many 
businesses, small and large, that FedEx 
has helped find new ways to grow and prosper. These businesses, in turn, are 
giving back to their communities while 
building stronger economies. So all around the world, every day, we are 
paying it forward. ”
Jill BrannonSenior Vice President of International 
Sales, FedEx ServicesThese businesses, in turn, are giving back 
to their communities 
while building stronger economies. 
So all around the 
world, every day, we are paying it forward.“
11
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Economy
We see four major trends shaping the 
global marketplace: ever-increasing 
globalization and trade; supply chain 
efficiencies; proliferation of high-tech businesses and high-value-added goods; 
and the growth of e-commerce.
As we adapt to this changing 
marketplace, we see a tremendous 
opportunity for our citizenship strategy to support our company’s broader 
business objectives.
For FedEx, growing our company in a 
responsible, resourceful and forward-
thinking manner is the only way to do business.
12
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Our Business
Headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee, 
FedEx Corporation provides our 
global customers with a broad suite of 
logistics, transportation, e-commerce and related business services. Our more 
than 340,000 (as of December 31, 2015) 
dedicated team members deliver daily on the Purple Promise meeting the needs 
of customers and communities while 
upholding the highest safety, ethical and 
professional standards.The world’s largest express 
transportation company serving more 
than 220 countries and territories
A leading provider of small-package 
ground delivery services in the United 
States and Canada
A leading provider of less-than-truckload 
(LTL) freight services across the United 
States, with service to Canada, Mexico, 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin IslandsWe provide these services through operating companies grouped into four 
business segments. These operating 
companies compete collectively, operate independently and are managed 
collaboratively, under the FedEx brand. 
Coordination of sales, marketing, 
communications, information technology 
and customer service support for the 
FedEx global brand, including FedEx Office 
13
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Our Financial Highlights 
For full details on our financial performance, 2015 Form 10-K.
FY131FY142FY153 
Consolidated revenues (billions) $44.3 $45.6 $47 .5
Operating income (millions) $4,434 $3,815 $1,867
Operating margin 10.0% 8.4% 3.9%
Net income (millions) $2,716 $2,324 $1,050
Diluted earnings per share $8.55 $7 .48 $3.65
Capital expenditures (billions) $3.4 $3.5 $4.3
(1)Results for FY13 include a gain of $1.4 billion ($835 million, net of tax, or $2.63 per diluted share) associated with our mark-to-market 
pension accounting, business realignment costs of $560 million ($353 million, net of tax, or $1.11 per diluted share) and an impairment 
charge of $100 million ($63 million, net of tax, or $0.20 per diluted share) resulting from the decision to retire certain aircraft and related engines at FedEx Express.
(2)Results for FY14 include a loss of $15 million ($9 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) associated with our mark-to-market 
pension accounting.
(3)Results for FY15 include a loss of $2.2 billion ($1.4 billion, net of tax, or $4.81 per diluted share) associated with our mark-to-market 
pension accounting, impairment and related charges of $276 million ($175 million, net of tax, or $0.61 per diluted share) resulting from the decision to permanently retire and adjust the retirement schedule of certain aircraft and related engines and a charge of $197 million ($133 million, net of tax, or $0.46 per diluted share) to increase the legal reserve associated with the settlement of a legal matter at FedEx Ground to the amount of the settlement.In FY15, FedEx revenues 
were $47 .5 billion 
up more than 4 percent over the previous 
year. We outperformed the Dow Jones Transportation Average and significantly expanded our business offerings with the acquisitions of GENCO and Bongo International. We also 
announced plans 
to acquire TNT Express.These strategic acquisitions will enable 
FedEx to better meet customer needs 
by improving our logistics networks and filling gaps in our portfolio of solutions. 
14
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Main hub locations globally
Middle East, Indian 
subcontinent and Africa
Dubai, United Arab EmiratesEurope
Paris, France 
Cologne, GermanyNorth America
Memphis, TennesseeOakland, California
Newark, New Jersey
Fort Worth, TexasIndianapolis, Indiana
Anchorage, Alaska
Woodbridge, New JerseyRialto, California
Mississauga, OntarioAsia Pacific
Guangzhou, China
Osaka, Japan
Singapore
Latin America and the 
Caribbean
Miami, Florida
15
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Our stakeholders
FedEx generates income and opportunity 
for millions of stakeholders across more 
than 220 countries and territories. 
Customers: Through efficient local, 
national, regional and international trade channels, we connect our customers 
to 99 percent of global GDP , providing access to the goods and markets they 
need to succeed.
Shareowners: Our shareowners 
benefit when our stock price goes up  and from dividends paid 
from  
corporate profits. Employees: We provide employees 
with competitive pay, health benefits and 
pension plans.  
Suppliers: We annually purchase 
billions of dollars’ worth of services, 
consumable items and capital goods 
from a wide range of global suppliers.  Communities: We support 
communities with cash donations, team 
member and in-kind donations and 
charitable shipping. We also support local communities through job creation 
and through spending by our employees 
and suppliers.
Stakeholder Value Add
FY13 FY14 FY15 
Dividends paid to shareowners (millions) $177 $187 $227
Stock price (May 31 close) $96.34 $144.16 $173.22
Salaries and team member benefits (billions) $16.06 $16.17 $17 .11
Diverse supplier spend (billions) $4.1 $6.51$6.71
Community investment (millions) $46.51 $45.48 $53.06
(1) FY14 and FY15 data reflect an improved data-collection process resulting from the adoption of a centralized sourcing model.
16
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Our Supply Chain
FedEx relies on a complex, global supply 
chain to provide the resources and 
services to run our business and meet 
customer needs. Our major suppliers include equipment manufacturers, fuel 
companies and independent 
service providers. 
FedEx Ground 
independent businesses
Since 1985, FedEx Ground has contracted 
with independent businesses for pickup 
and delivery and line-haul services. 
FedEx Ground contracts with nearly 
7 ,200 businesses throughout the U.S. 
and Canada, almost one-third of which are minority- and woman-owned. These 
businesses employ an additional 52,000 
people as managers, drivers and other staff, generating more than $4.4 billion in 
annual revenue. 
17
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Number of independent businesses 
providing transportation, pickup and delivery services for FedEx Ground
Annual revenue generated by these independent businessesFedEx Ground: providing opportunities for small- 
business ownership since 1985
7 ,200
Percentage of minority- and
women-owned businesses
$4.4Workers employed by these independent businesses
52,000• Drivers
• Managers
• Helpers and staff 32%
billion
Average annual revenue per business
$680,000
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
18In FY15, FedEx procured $6.7 billion 
in goods and services from diverse 
suppliers across our enterprise.Supplier Diversity Spend  
Diverse supplier spend 
(billions)
Minority-owned 
businesses
Women-owned 
businesses
Other small 
businessesFY13
$4.1
10%
3%
87%FY151
14%
7%
79%FY141
$6.5
16%
7%
77%
Supporting supplier 
diversity
Like our customers, many of our 
vendors are diverse businesses. For 
more than two decades, FedEx has 
supported small, women-owned and 
minority-owned businesses in our 
supply chain. Our Sourcing organization manages the enterprisewide Supplier 
Diversity program, aligning efforts to 
increase our direct spend with diverse suppliers within our broader  
sourcing strategy. We work with regional and national 
diversity organizations to promote the 
growth of small and diverse businesses 
and to increase opportunities for FedEx to work with these enterprises. The 
Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council named FedEx as a 2015 Top Corporation Award winner. 
FY15 highlights:
• Adapting our supplier profile form to formally recognize the lesbian, gay, 
bisexual and transgender  
(LGBT) community  (1) FY14 and FY15 data reflect an improved data-collection process resulting from the adoption of a centralized sourcing model.
• Hosting a Diverse Supplier Summit at the FedEx Institute o
f  Technology in 
Memphis, Tennessee. Run by FedEx 
Services, this event gave more than 60 
diverse suppliers a window into FedEx business requirements and  
networking opportunities.
• Updating the FedEx Services policy 
to require including at least one small or minority-/woman-owned 
business, where multiple companies 
supply goods or services in support of company operations, or in the bidding 
process for suppliers.$6.7
19
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -To ensure consistency with our initial 
screening, we created a new clause in 
our contract development process that 
outlines expectations that suppliers will uphold the principles in our Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics and 
Environmental Policy Statement related to protecting and advancing human 
rights and avoiding adverse impact to 
the environment. Suppliers are also 
requested to report on their use of raw 
materials, recycled content and third-party sustainability certifications 
where appropriate.
After the contract is signed, we regularly 
score our critically dependent suppliers based on factors that assess their 
performance. In FY15, we developed 
sustainability metrics as a component of the supplier’s scoring. We share 
results with the supplier to ensure that 
improvements are made, if necessary.
FedEx is a founding member of the 
U.S. Sustainable Purchasing Leadership 
Council (SPLC) and was the lead sponsor 
of its annual summit in 2015. We actively participate in various SPLC Technical 
Advisory Groups applying the Council’s 
best practice guidance to our own supply chain sustainability initiatives.Managing supply 
chain risks
Being open and honest about the risks 
associated with our complex global 
network of suppliers is a key component 
of our commitment to responsible business conduct. We work proactively  
to assess risk and have robust policies 
and procedures to manage the supply chain risks that may impact our business.
Our efforts to increase collaboration 
and sustainability in our supply chain 
are led by our Supplier Relationship Management team.
Due to the large quantity of suppliers 
that we do business with, our efforts 
to mitigate supply chain risks focus on those suppliers that we deem to be 
critically dependent to our business. We 
use supplier sustainability risk-screening criteria in our request for proposals and 
information to address these suppliers’ 
records in environmental, social, labor and human rights areas. 
In FY15, we developed additional 
sustainability questions on suppliers’ 
environmental management systems, goals for improvement and transparency 
into their own supply chains — and 
screened nearly 300 current and potential suppliers through this process.
If a supplier’s response carries a potential 
risk, we determine appropriate  next steps.
If a supplier is selected through this 
process, we enter into a contract for the 
goods or services provided. Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4FedEx screened almost 
300 existing and potential suppliers in FY15 using an improved risk management approach
Utilize supplier RFPs to identify 
ESG track records and risk
Initiate new supplier contract 
clauses to ensure FedEx ethics, 
conduct, human rights and 
environmental principles are upheld
Regularly score critically 
dependent suppliers to assess 
performance
Share results to ensure 
improvements if necessary
20
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -in revenue have in 
common with our global citizenship strategy?
Increasingly, customers, shareowners 
and other stakeholders are requesting 
information and data on our citizenship 
programs. This interest has significant revenue implications. For example, more 
than $6.2 billion in FY15 revenue came 
from customers seeking information on corporate citizenship and carbon 
emissions data. What does
$6.2 
billionConnecting Global 
Citizenship to our Business Success
More than ever, customers and 
investors are looking to do business 
with companies that demonstrate strong 
sustainability performance. We believe that conducting business in a safe, 
ethical and sustainable way translates to 
long-term profitability. 
FedEx is addressing the main areas of 
intersection and opportunity between our business strategy and global 
citizenship activities: 
• Increasing operational efficiency 
• Mitigating sustainability risks and 
capitalizing on opportunities 
• Enhancing customer and community 
opportunities and loyalty.
21
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -We regularly engage with our 
extensive network of stakeholders, 
including customers, team members, 
shareowners, suppliers, governments, NGOs, nonprofits, multilateral agencies 
and communities. Understanding the 
issues and challenges that matter to them helps us to refine our global 
citizenship strategy.Our first materiality analysis in FY14 
identified the issues and opportunities 
most important to our business. We 
sought input from external and internal stakeholders through workshops, 
interviews and surveys, and the matrix 
below illustrates the findings. This valuable intelligence is helping to shape 
our strategy, goals, targets and metrics. 
Already, we have made significant progress in several key areas highlighted throughout this report. 
We are now undertaking a broader 
external stakeholder mapping and 
engagement effort. It will provide deeper 
insights into relevant global citizenship topics as our company grows and 
sustainability mega-trends increasingly 
impact global business.
Surface vehicle fleet usage & 
associated GHG emissionsIMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS
INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESSLOWHIGH
HIGHEthics, bribery
& corruption
Workplace safetyBusiness preparedness, resiliency
& disaster response
Aircraft fuel usage &
associated GHG emissions
Data security & privacy
T eam member relations
Diversity & inclusion
Product &
service innovation
Public policy
engagementEconomic impact
& accessWorkforce developmentFacility energy usage &
associated GHG emissions
Waste & recycling
Social impacts
of supply chain
Community investment
& volunteerism
Supplier diversity
Environmental impacts
of supply chainWater impact
of operationsBiodiversityEmployee health
& wellness
T ransport of restricted,
hazardous or morally-
objectionable goodsSocial & envionmental
impacts on communitiesMateriality and stakeholder engagement
Materiality Matrix
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
22Increasing operational 
efficiencies 
Connecting 99 percent of global GDP 
requires a sophisticated infrastructure 
with many areas of operating 
expenditure. By improving our daily operational efficiency, we not only 
manage our costs but also limit the 
environmental impacts of our operations and help position FedEx for a more 
sustainable future.In FY15, we continued to reap the cost 
benefits of our environmental initiatives. 
Aircraft and vehicle fuel represent a 
significant operational cost — as well as our biggest environmental impact 
— accounting for 8 percent of our 
operating expenses and 92 percent of our emissions footprint. Our coordinated 
program of aircraft fleet modernization, FedEx® Fuel Sense, dimensional weight 
pricing and alternative fuel strategy is 
helping FedEx and its customers improve 
efficiencies, reduce emissions and  cut costs.
FY15 Efficiency Gains and Cost Savings 
Environmental objective FedEx initiative FY15 cost savings FY15 emissions avoided 
Reduce aircraft emission intensity 30% 
from a 2005 baseline by 2020Aircraft fleet modernization,
FedEx®Fuel Sense operational 
improvements$296 million1.15 million metric tons of CO
2e avoided
Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel 
efficiency 30% from a 2005 baseline by 2020Fuel-efficient driving,vehicle technology 
improvements and
alternative fuel usage$65 million 215,000 metric tons of CO
2e 
avoided
In FY15, we surpassed 
our revised goal for FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency a full five years ahead of scheduleand announced plans to further modernize our aircraft fleet by buying 90 additional Boeing 767-300F aircraft.
For more information on these 
initiatives, see Environment.
23
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Both FedEx Express and FedEx Ground 
apply what is known as dimensional 
weight (dim weight) pricing. Dim 
weight is calculated by using the length, width and height of a package and 
sets the transportation price based 
on package volume — the amount of 
space a package occupies in relation to 
its actual weight. By using dim weight to determine pricing, we encourage 
customers to opt for smaller packaging. Benefits can include:
• Improved loading efficiency for planes 
and trucks, which leads to reduced 
emissions 
• Reduced customer shipping-supply 
costs by using fewer boxes and filler 
material 
• Decreased shipping costs for 
customers that right-size packaging.More efficient packages 
for customers
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
24Material Citizenship Risks 
Material risk How we manage risks
Ethics, bribery and corruption• Global governance, ethics and compliance policies, programs and training 
activities 
• Alert Line for reporting ethical concerns
• Separate Corporate Integrity & Compliance department, established in FY15, reinforcing our commitment
Driver and workplace safety• Team member workplace safety training and awareness programs 
• Driver safety programs, training and awareness campaigns
Data security and privacy• Technology security initiatives 
• Information technology risk management and disaster-recovery plans 
• Customer Protection Center
• FedEx Digital Platforms Privacy Policy
• Information Security Awareness programs 
Business preparedness, resiliency and disaster response• Contingency plans for events such as disasters or social unrest 
Global environmental and social trends and impacts on communities• Materiality assessment, stakeholder engagement and global citizenship reporting identifies risks and supports forward planning
Aircraft and surface vehicle fleet energy usage and associated GHG emissions• Fuel efficiency and emission-reduction targets
• Sustainable alternative fuel strategies and vehicle and aircraft efficiency 
measures
• Aircraft fleet modernization and operational improvements
• Advocating for regulatory and policy changes that support emission-reduction standardsMitigating risks
Understanding the key environmental and social issues that impact our 
business is essential to managing 
associated risks, as well as exploiting potential opportunities. We deploy long-term planning and responsible management across our operations 
to mitigate potential negative impacts 
on our revenue, costs, reputation and business continuity. The FedEx Board of Directors, supported by management, has ultimate oversight 
over risk management activities. For 
information on these responsibilities, please see our 2015 Proxy Statement.
25
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -resilient communities where we operate. 
By investing in education and disaster 
relief and resilience today, we help to 
build stronger communities and related business opportunities for  
FedEx tomorrow. Enhancing customer and 
community opportunities and loyalty 
Our reputation is built on the ability 
to connect the world responsibly and 
resourcefully. Customers, employees and 
investors are increasingly influenced by companies with a strong commitment 
to corporate citizenship and whose 
values reflect their own. We are proud that FedEx continues to be recognized 
as one of the world’s most respected 
brands, and see a tremendous economic benefit in maintaining and enhancing 
our reputation and demonstrating strong 
performance in corporate citizenship.
Our business activities for customers 
and communities are complemented by giving and volunteering programs 
that promote safe, sustainable and 
Awards and recognition
Fortune Magazine’s World’s Most 
Admired Companies
100 Most Reputable Companies in the World 
CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens
NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability Index
Civic 50: the 50 most community-minded companies in the United States 
Best Employer in Japan, Korea, Malaysia, 
New Zealand and Asia Pacific
26
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Corporate charitable 
shippingOur community strategy
FedEx is dedicated to transforming lives 
and economies around the world and 
in the communities where we live and 
operate. Our community investment strategy is built on collaborating 
with trusted NGOs and nonprofit 
organizations to make meaningful and lasting impacts that align with our 
corporate priorities. 
Cash grants
Corporate marketing in-kind 
Team member United Way 
cash contributions$36.97m$1 .33m
$9.40m
$5.36mFedEx is committed to investing $200 
million in more than 200 communities by 
2020. We invest in programs that foster 
entrepreneurship, create employment pathways for underserved populations, 
enhance sustainable transportation 
solutions, make our roads safer and provide resources to communities that 
need them most. Homegrown volunteers supplement and enrich these community 
investments. Last year, almost 16,000 
FedEx team members took part in FedEx 
Cares week alone.
$53.06
millionCharitable Contributions
in FY15Community Investment Strategy 
Economy
27
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -EntrepreneurshipEmployment pathwaysSustainable
transportation
Road safety2,000
Students in nine Asia Pacific markets reached by the FedEx Express/Junior 
Achievement International Trade Challenge100,000
Opportunities Initiative launched by a business coalition in August 2015, including FedEx, to create employment openings for 100,000 underserved U.S. youth 40
Cities in four countries provided with more sustainable transport options since FY10, in collaboration with the World Resources Institute — EMBARQ Mobility and 
Access Program (MAP) 
15,822
FedEx team member volunteers during FedEx Cares WeekCommunity Program Highlights
VolunteerismDisaster resiliency and 
relief and charitable shipping3.5 million lbs.
Of donated space for charitable shipping in FY15
$4.7 million provided in charitable donations for disaster-affected communitiesMore than 1 million
Children in nine countries benefiting from safer streets and pedestrian safety education, in alliance with Safe Kids Worldwide FedEx is committed to investing
$200 
millionin 200+ 
communities by 2020
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
28Helping small 
businesses make a difference
Since 2013, the FedEx Small Business 
Grant Contest has awarded small 
business owners who think big with cash 
grants. In FY15, we awarded 10 grants totaling $75,000 to winners. Our $25,000 
grand prize went to In Blue Handmade, 
Inc. of North Carolina, which makes hand-cut and sewn leather goods. In 
FY16, the contest was also held in three 
international markets — Hong Kong, Singapore and Brazil.
Making a 
difference to cancer survivors
Breast cancer affects more than 2.9 
million American women, many of whom 
require reconstructive surgery. Dana 
Donofree is a breast cancer survivor and founder of AnaOno LLC, a lingerie line for women who’ve had such surgery. 
AnaOno uses FedEx to ship products 
across North America and to Europe and Asia, and in FY15 the company won 
$10,000 in the FedEx Small Business 
Grant Contest. Donofree will use the grant to explore new marketing 
opportunities and expand her business. That’s the feeling I 
want every woman 
to have — to feel 
sexy and desirable, even though life has 
changed because of 
cancer.
Dana DonofreeFounder of AnaOno“
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
29Growing Global 
Economies, Connecting People to Markets
E-commerce has dramatically changed 
the way the world conducts business. 
As economies become increasingly 
interconnected, companies large and small are able to access markets that 
were once unattainable. This, in turn, 
drives opportunity and economic growth in emerging economies. FedEx is at 
the center of these global connections, 
using our extensive and reliable logistics network to help enable entrepreneurs 
virtually everywhere access 
international markets. 
30
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -How FedEx Is 
Helping Reshape the Global Economy 
Raj Subramaniam, Executive Vice 
President of Global Marketing at FedEx 
Services, oversees a broad portfolio that 
includes digital access and e-commerce. He champions the idea that FedEx stands 
at the intersection of the physical and 
informational infrastructure required for global commerce — helping businesses 
flourish, economies prosper and 
standards of living improve.
How is innovation driving access to the 
global market, and what does it mean for FedEx?
Technology advances are reshaping the 
digital and physical aspects of trade. As we have progressed from mail, phone 
and fax to a 24/7 internet, we are all 
connected to the global marketplace. It’s hard to overstate the impact this is 
making on businesses, communities 
and individuals. For example, the entire globe has become a marketplace for 
businesses of all sizes. Today, all you 
need is a mobile device, a shipping platform — and a big idea.
People now have access to what they see 
on their mobile devices and computer 
screen. And that is driving transportation 
companies like FedEx to deliver holistic global solutions. We now help 
businesses in more than 220 countries and territories build stronger supply 
chains and connect to global markets. 
Much of this change is happening at the 
intersection of the world’s virtual and 
physical networks. By virtual networks, 
I mean high-speed internet, Wi-Fi, mobile near-field communication and 
other digital technologies. By physical 
networks, I mean transportation systems and logistics platforms. FedEx operates 
at the crossroads where these networks 
converge and where the global economy is being reshaped — for the better — at a 
pace the world has never seen.
How is e-commerce changing the global 
economy, and what does it mean for 
sustainability?E-commerce is growing at an 
extraordinary rate. According to the 
U.S. Commerce Department, online sales accounted for more than half of 
all domestic retail sales growth in 2015. 
And it’s not only happening here. The eMarketer market research firm projects 
that e-commerce sales will account 
for 12 percent of all global retail sales by 2019. That growth is revolutionizing 
retail shopping and the global network 
delivery industry. FedEx has long been at the forefront of this change. 
By 2018, about 130 million people are 
expected to buy online from a country 
other than their own, spending an 
estimated $307 billion. FedEx supports the businesses — both large and 
small ones — that are supplying these 
consumers. One great example is AnaOno Intimates, a company started by 
a breast cancer survivor in Philadelphia. 
The owner started out with an idea to create a line of bras and lingerie for 
other breast cancer survivors who’ve 
undergone reconstructive surgery. Shortly after launching her website in 
May 2014, she began selling wholesale 
to specialty boutiques. But then orders started flooding in from around the 
world. She now uses FedEx to ship all 
over North America, as well as to Asia and Europe. 
There’s been a lot of talk about 
sustainability and e-commerce of late. 
And without question, packaging is 
a huge e-commerce issue. It’s also one we take extremely seriously. That’s one reason why 100 percent of FedEx® packaging is recyclable and 
approximately 50 percent is made from 
recycled content. It’s also why we’re continually on the lookout for ways to 
pick up and deliver shipments efficiently, 
why we seek out and use new forms of renewable energy and why we strive to 
help make our communities and planet 
more sustainable for future generations.
Where is the global economy headed, 
and which markets might surprise people in the next 10 years?
The question of where the economy 
goes from here can be challenging. Are we entering another Golden Era 
of trade? That will depend in part on 
governments coming together to agree on trade policies that open up global 
trade flows. Trade agreements such as 
the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment 
Partnership (TTIP) between the U.S. and 
Europe are absolutely critical. 
Either way, the convergence of virtual 
and physical networks is creating new centers of economic power. Countries 
such as Mexico, Indonesia, Turkey and 
Vietnam are emerging as the upstarts of the global economy, joining India 
and China as engines of growth. And 
that growth is lifting millions out of poverty. For example, numerous studies 
estimate that the Asia-Pacific region 
will make up two-thirds of the global middle class by 2030, up from just under 
one-third in 2009. That region is also 
expected to eventually account for more than 40 percent of global middle-class 
consumption. 
Mexico is particularly fascinating. Trade 
now accounts for nearly 63 percent of 
its GDP — that’s higher than for China, Brazil or the U.S. — and the country has 
more than 40 free trade agreements 
with other countries. Cross-border trade between Mexico and the United States 
amounts to approximately $1.4 billion 
per day. Between nearshoring and its young, educated population, the Mexican 
economy could grow at a rapid pace. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
31Enabling global 
e-commerce
Online shopping represents more than
a figure that is forecast to double 
over the next four years.This rapidly 
developing e-commerce landscape 
requires flexible logistics solutions in order for companies of all types to 
achieve their full potential. To meet these 
evolving customer needs and expand opportunities for emerging economies, 
we continually seek ways to ship 
smarter, faster and more efficiently.In FY15, FedEx Ground invested $1.2 billion in facilities and automation 
services to manage forecasted 
e-commerce growth. FedEx Ground, including Canadian operations, owns or 
leases approximately 53 million square 
feet of facility space, up by nearly 4 million square feet since FY14. FedEx 
dimensional weight pricing helps to 
reduce the packaging impact of rapid e-commerce growth, by encouraging 
customers to choose streamlined 
packaging options.
We are also making customers’ lives 
easier through our expansive global retail networks. With more than 8,800 
staffed and 41,000 self-service retail 
locations, we facilitate efficient global commerce. Increasingly, our retail 
locations also hold packages for pickup, 
for example through FedEx Ship&Get® lockers, limiting the need for door-to-
door deliveries. Curbing “last-mile” 
deliveries offers convenience to our customers while improving  
operational efficiency.
In the Philippines, FedEx expanded its 
retail network to more than 300 FedEx 
Authorized Ship Centers, providing customers with access to more 
convenient shipping solutions. In Taiwan, 
FedEx introduced a door-to-door pickup and delivery service for dangerous 
goods. Customers in Taiwan can now 
also pick up their packages at more than 5,000 7-ELEVEN stores.
$1
trillion,
32
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -GENCO, building stronger  
supply chains
In January 2015, we acquired GENCO, 
a leading North American third-party 
logistics provider. With a comprehensive 
portfolio of supply chain services, GENCO’s expertise will expand existing 
FedEx solutions in the evolving retail and 
e-commerce markets. 
GENCO’s infrastructure and supply chain 
capabilities include reverse logistics, providing triage, test and repair, 
remarketing and product liquidation 
solutions. Additionally, GENCO’s breadth of expertise in targeted vertical markets 
— such as technology, healthcare 
and retail — aligns with our strategic priorities in these areas. With more than 
10,000 employees at approximately 132 
operations, GENCO offers a complete range of product lifecycle logistics® 
services to customers in the technology, 
consumer, industrial, retail and healthcare markets.
Bongo International, expanding 
cross-border opportunities
In December 2014, we acquired Bongo 
International, a leader in cross-border 
enablement technologies and solutions. 
Bongo’s capabilities complement and expand the FedEx portfolio of solutions 
important to international e-commerce. 
Bongo’s technology and processes provide a comprehensive and integrated 
end-to-end solution that helps retailers TNT Express, increasing 
international solutions 
In April 2015, we entered into an 
agreement to acquire TNT Express, one 
of the world’s largest express delivery 
companies. The acquisition of TNT Express, which is still subject to certain 
regulatory approvals, will enhance 
our reach and provide customers with greater access to an expanded portfolio 
of international solutions, increasing 
opportunities to take advantage of market trends, including the continued 
growth of e-commerce.Improving services through acquisitions 
and strategic collaborations
Strategic collaborations  
FedEx also looks to strategic 
collaborations to increase global reach. 
In June 2015, FedEx collaborated with 
Japan Post to launch a new international delivery service that will help to expand 
our domestic presence in Japan. To 
meet growing regional shipping needs in the Middle East, Indian subcontinent 
and Africa region, FedEx appointed 
Abdul Latif Jameel Group as its new global service provider for international 
inbound and outbound services.and e-tailers grow by reaching 
international e-commerce consumers. 
Bongo’s capabilities include export 
compliance management, Harmonized System classification, currency 
conversions, international payment 
options inclusive of language translation, shopping cart management, duty and  
tax calculations and credit card  
fraud protection. 
33
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Supporting U.S. and global 
small and minority-owned businesses 
Small and minority-owned businesses 
and entrepreneurs are a major source 
of innovation and economic growth. By 
connecting these FedEx customers to reach new markets, we help unlock their 
potential while growing our business. 
Through our regulatory, logistics and supply chain expertise, and 
collaborations with the International 
Trade Administration’s Industry & Analysis team and the Department 
of Commerce’s Global Markets/U.S. 
Commercial Service, we provide the resources necessary to help small and 
diverse businesses succeed in  
export markets.
Helping entrepreneurs  
go global
Complex regulatory red tape and 
not knowing where best to invest 
internationally deter many smaller 
companies from expanding globally. FedEx has established tools and 
programs such as the FedEx® Small 
Business Center and the FedEx Know and Grow
SM program that deploy our 
regulatory, logistics and supply chain 
expertise to help our customers navigate 
these obstacles. In FY15, we supported 50 events 
nationwide. Since 
2009, a total of 80,900 customers 
have benefited 
from this program, including 8,400 
participants in FY15.
Since 2009, the FedEx Know and 
Grow  program has hosted export 
education events, seminars and training opportunities for customers across the United States. Teaming up with 
ExporTech, Export University, state and 
federal agencies and small business organizations, we help customers find 
the right markets for their products 
and services and understand related regulatory and compliance requirements.  
34
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -MaxPlus, Taiwan 
Based in Taichung, Taiwan, MaxPlus 
customizes automobiles for car lovers 
by creating unique vinyl wraps and auto 
accessories. The company’s creative designs attract customers from Japan, 
Australia, New Zealand, India, Canada, 
the United States and Europe.
FedEx enables MaxPlus to overcome 
logistical challenges common to small and medium-sized businesses 
engaged in cross-border commerce. 
We provide time-sensitive delivery via FedEx International Priority® ,  
streamlined customs processes — FedEx 
international shipments automatically include customs clearance — and easy-
to-use time-saving tools such as FedEx® 
Quick Form, which generates an air waybill in just a few clicks.
As MaxPlus navigates new markets, we 
offer value-added solutions to support 
special processing through customs as 
needed and expert support through the FedEx online Customs Resource Center.
Delivering customized parts for car connoisseurs
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
35Promoting Open 
and Efficient T rade 
Global economic growth and 
development require open and efficient 
trade. Removing trade barriers helps 
small and medium-sized enterprises to succeed by simplifying regulations and 
red tape and emerging economies to 
attract increased investment and create jobs. It also enables FedEx to connect 
people to more markets by facilitating 
the exchange of goods across borders. 
We therefore advocate for policies, 
agreements and treaties that eliminate barriers to trade and simplify cross-
border commerce. Recently, this has 
included supporting the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), Trans-Pacific Partnership 
(TPP) and Transatlantic Trade and 
Investment Partnership (TTIP).
Through communications with 
government officials, employees and customers, FedEx Regulatory Affairs 
supported the passage of  TPA, which 
was signed into law in June 2015.
During 2015, we also supported the U.S. 
Open Skies policy, a series of bilateral aviation agreements. For more than 20 
years, Open Skies agreements between 
the U.S. and more than 110 nations have enabled the free flow of passengers 
and cargo to and from the U.S.  These 
agreements continue to increase travel and trade, enhance global commerce 
and fuel our economic growth.
36
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Why trade  
agreements matter
In June 2015, the TPA was signed into 
law, granting the U.S. executive branch 
authority to negotiate international 
trade agreements through expedited legislative channels if specific conditions 
and transparency parameters are 
met. TPA is seen by many as a critical precursor to moving forward large, 
impending trade agreements, such 
as the TPP and TTIP .  These two trade partnerships will have tremendous 
implications for global trade and  
our business.“T rade Agreement
T rans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)
Region
Asia-Pacific region, including the U.S., Canada, Chile, Mexico and Peru
Number of Countries 
Participating
12
Percent of Global GDPRepresented
~40%
T rade Agreement
T rans-Atlantic T rade and Investment 
Partnership (TTIP)
Region
U.S. and the European Union 
Number of Countries 
Participating
29
Percent of Global GDPRepresented
~60%We’re excited about 
the TPP . You’re 
going to have free 
trade covering 40 percent of the global 
economy. You’re 
going to have a trade agreement between 
the U.S. and Japan — 
something that we have not had before. 
And you’re going 
to see American manufacturers and 
farmers getting 
access to very large markets and 
new customers. 
Ralph Carter,
Managing Director, Trade & International 
Affairs at FedEx Express
37
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -In FY15, FedEx delivered more 
than 140 pallets of medical relief supplies to support Ebola mobile treatment centers in Liberia.Community Connections 
Economy
38
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Delivering
for Good
We are proud to use our unparalleled 
logistics expertise and global reach 
as a force for good. Ensuring that 
communities stay connected can 
be difficult when disasters strike or 
when nonprofit organizations lack the resources they need to fulfill their missions. From delivering life-sustaining 
supplies after a disaster to providing 
in-kind shipping for nonprofit agencies, we connect resources to communities in 
need around the world.Disaster relief and 
recovery
When disasters strike, FedEx responds. 
Team members, including drivers, pilots 
and operations teams, work around 
the clock to help deliver supplies, food, medicine and other services to stricken 
communities. Our networks are often 
able to quickly reach cut-off communities and local economies while infrastructure 
recovers. Our operations specialists have 
the expertise to quickly direct supplies to locations where they are needed most. In FY15, we supported earthquake 
survivors in Nepal and Ebola treatment 
in West Africa, utilizing longstanding 
relationships with nonprofit relief 
agencies. During the year, we donated more than $4.66 million in cash and in-kind support to the American Red 
Cross, AmericasRelief Team, Direct Relief, 
The Salvation Army, Heart to Heart International and InterAction among 
others, for ongoing relief efforts. 
Supporting Leading Humanitarian Organizations
Organization Supported since T otal donations FY15 donations
American Red Cross 1995 $18.2 million $2.6 million
The Salvation Army 2001 $6.1 million $58,000
Direct Relief 2003 $7 .1 million $910,000
InterAction 2011 $1.5 million $400,000
AmericasRelief Team 2011 $323,000 $118,000Community Connections 
Economy
39
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Giving back by 
shipping goods 
From care packages and Christmas 
trees to polar bears, we provide in-
kind transportation to spread cheer 
and help causes that align with our values. Shipping goods can be cost 
prohibitive to community and nonprofit 
organizations with limited resources. In FY15, we donated space for 3.5 million 
pounds of charitable shipping across our 
global network. Some FY15 highlights include:
• Shipping 600 robots to support the 
FIRST Robotics Competition, an 
international contest that helps high 
school students from 19 countries gain mentorship from professional 
engineers and learn to use 
sophisticated robotics technology
• Delivering 12,156 pounds of holiday 
season care packages to U.S. service 
members in Afghanistan and Kuwait
• Transporting Kali, a male polar bear cub orphaned in Alaska, to his new 
home at the St. Louis Zoo 
• Delivering more than 17 ,800 Christmas 
trees to 63 military bases in the U.S. and overseas.Delivering the gift of sight 
FedEx has proudly worked with Orbis 
International for decades to eradicate 
avoidable blindness in developing 
nations. Through the Delivering Sight Worldwide program, our team members 
pilot the nonprofit’s Flying Eye Hospital 
aircraft, deliver medical supplies and provide aircraft maintenance support. 
In FY15, one of the Flying Eye Hospital’s 
destinations was Hanoi, Vietnam. 
There we helped to deliver a two-week 
national ophthalmic training program with the Vietnam National Institute of 
Ophthalmology. Community Connections 
Economy
40
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Supporting Y oung 
Entrepreneurs 
Young people are the entrepreneurs 
of the future. Around the world, FedEx 
works with nonprofit agencies to 
help young men and women connect their innovative ideas to the global 
marketplace. We are committed to 
improving access for young leaders to gain the knowledge and skills they 
need to succeed in their academic and 
professional lives.
For more than 30 years, we have worked 
with Junior Achievement (JA), a global nonprofit that provides young people 
with the skills they need to succeed in 
school and throughout their careers. 
Since 2007 , we have implemented the 
FedEx Access Seminars and Awards, teaching high school students how to 
build enterprises capable of accessing 
global markets. Our team members work with students to design companies that 
can expand across international borders, 
create jobs and incorporate sustainable business practices. 
In FY15, Access Seminars reached nearly 
550 students in five countries. In each 
region, the most innovative student 
enterprises won Access Awards. Among previous winners was Egyptian-based 
RecycloBekia, one of the first e-waste 
recycling companies in the Middle East and North Africa. To date, the student-
run company employs 10 full-time 
employees, six part-time employees and has recycled 150 tons of e-waste.
 
For the ninth time, FedEx and Junior Achievement organized the International Trade Challenge program in the Asia 
Pacific region. In FY15, the program 
expanded to cover 242 schools in nine markets, involving 2,051 students.5,195
volunteer hours in FY15464  
team members mentored
more than
5,784  
student entrepreneurs worldwide for a combined total ofCommunity Connections 
Economy
 The FedEx Access 
Award was important to shape the success 
of our company 
and help us to get regional exposure.
Mostafa HemdanCEO RecycloBekia“
in giving$1 million +
FY15 Junior Achievement 
impact:
41
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -Environment
FedEx is committed to connecting the world 
responsibly and resourcefully. Mindful of our footprint, we deliver industry-leading innovation to reduce our environmental impact. From upgrading our air and ground fleets to pioneering jet biofuel  and empowering team members to lead by example. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
42What does a 
forester in Oregon 
have in common 
with aircraft mechanics students 
in T urkey?
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
43“Excess forest debris is a huge 
contributor to these catastrophic 
wildfires. It puts all forest activities 
at risk — timber, recreation, wildlife management, water use. In Lake County 
alone, we have around 400,000 acres 
of dead trees. In 2012, a 95,000-acre fire just outside Lakeview devastated our 
community. People lost their retirement 
investment when their land burned.Thinning wood is very costly and the 
material had no value, no market. That’s 
why it’s a blessing that Red Rock Biofuels is now building a plant here to turn 
Dan Shoun, a Lake County, Oregon, 
Commissioner who spent 30-plus years with the USDA Forest Service, sees wood-based biofuel as a win-win model to curb wildfire risk, support communities and provide low-carbon fuel.
wood waste into jet fuel. Lake County is 
supporting them every way we can.  
“I’m a member of the presidentially-
commissioned National Wildland Fire 
Leadership Council. One of our priorities 
is to make federal lands fire resilient. This kind of collaboration between Red 
Rock and FedEx is absolutely the way 
forward. It gives federal agencies the best tool they’ve ever had to clear wood 
waste. And it’s bringing jobs that support 
families to Lake County. ” 
Commissioner Dan ShounLake County, OregonThis kind of collaboration between 
Red Rock and FedEx 
is absolutely the way forward. It gives 
federal agencies the 
best tool they’ve ever had to clear 
wood waste. And 
it’s bringing jobs that support families to 
Lake County.“
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
44T erry Kulesa, co-founder and CEO of 
Red Rock Biofuels, believes biofuel is the future of aviation. In a mold-breaking collaboration, his company will soon supply jet fuel made from wood waste to FedEx Express.
T erry Kulesa
Co-founder and CEO of Red Rock 
Biofuels, Fort Collins, Colorado
“Four years ago, there was smoke all 
over Fort Collins from a forest fire. 
It was so bad my kids couldn’t go to 
summer camp. So, I asked my director of engineering, what can we do with 
the wood waste contributing to these 
fires that are turning our forests into moonscapes? And we came up with 
jet fuel. 
“We approached FedEx, which has a 
goal of achieving 30 percent alternative 
jet fuel by 2030, and they were very receptive. A sawmill company in 
Lakeview, Oregon, that sustainably 
manages a 100,000-acre forest will supply the wood waste. Some may also 
come from nearby federal land. The 
U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Energy and the U.S. Navy are providing 
a $70 million DPA Title III award for our 
processing facility, which will create around 100 local jobs in all. 
“We’re contracted with FedEx to supply 3 
million gallons of biofuel a year. This will 
be blended to provide 6 million gallons 
of alternative jet fuel annually between 2017 and 2024. I’m amazed at their 
foresight! FedEx is saying to airlines and 
the financial sector that this is the future of aviation fuel. We hope to build about 
10 more plants in the next few years. ” I’m amazed at their 
foresight! FedEx is 
saying to airlines and 
the financial sector that this is the future 
of aviation fuel.“
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
45Red Rock’s low-carbon biofuel will 
power planes based at the FedEx Express Oakland hub. The site prides itself on environmental leadership, according to Oakland Hub Director, Robin Van Galder.
“We’re an important regional hub. 
We have 1,700 employees and sort 
and distribute approximately 300,000 
packages a day, with daily operations consisting of 35 aircraft and 160-170 trucks. It makes sense to test and 
implement cutting-edge things here that 
set standards for other FedEx locations and airlines.  
“When we launched our rooftop solar 
array in 2005, with almost 5,800 panels 
covering 75,000 square feet, it was the 
largest in California. Between solar and fuel cell installations, 47 percent of our 
energy comes from alternative sources. “We also participate in Fuel Sense 
campaigns to conserve fuel when we 
load and handle aircraft. For example, 
ground personnel are tasked with reducing engine time when aircraft are taxiing in and out, thus saving 
fuel. Getting aircraft gates cleared and 
personnel in place ensures this happens. We are able to provide team members 
instant feedback on how their actions 
have a real impact, and that generates buy-in and pride.
“Many customers touring the site also 
want to see the solar panels and fuel 
cells. I’ve been with FedEx 32 years, and 
I look forward to work every day because we are making a difference. ”Robin Van GalderOakland Hub Director, FedEx ExpressWe’re an important regional hub. It makes 
sense to test and 
implement cutting-edge things here 
that set standards for 
other FedEx locations and airlines.“
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
46David Sutton
Managing Director, Aircraft Acquisitions 
& Sales, FedEx ExpressIt’s an 
environmentally 
friendly way of doing 
good, creating a second or third life for 
these planes as an 
educational resource. Some are still going 
at 60-plus years  
of age.“As FedEx Express modernizes its fleet 
and cleaner fuels, some older aircraft are donated. Giving these planes new life in ways that enrich and protect communities is a vocation for David Sutton, Managing Director, Aircraft Acquisitions & Sales.
“Since 1995, we’ve donated 96 retired 
aircraft to organizations ranging from 
museums to airport fire departments 
and aircraft mechanic schools. It’s an environmentally friendly way of doing 
good, creating a second or third life for 
these planes as an educational resource. Some are still going at 60-plus years of 
age.
“The planes are tremendous educational 
assets that create opportunities for 
hands-on learning experience. Airports and law enforcement agencies use them 
for safety and security training, including 
passenger evacuation and anti-terrorism simulations. In Kansas, we donated a 
“Learning Jet” for kindergarten through 
12th graders. 
“These planes generate huge civic pride. 
Mayors, businesses, even congressmen turn out for their delivery and turn-over 
ceremonies. In 2014, I co-piloted a 727 
donated to the aeronautics program at Anadolu University in Eskisehir, Turkey. 
Hundreds of people turned out — the 
reception left me ecstatic! 
“This program can really help change 
lives — especially for the next generation of aircraft mechanics. It’s a great way to 
fly the company flag, help communities 
and give back to the aviation industry. ”
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
47Ahmet Ikiz and Sema Avsar, 
undergraduates in the Faculty of Aeronautics and Astronautics at Anadolu University, Eskisehir, T urkey learn their craft inside the FedEx donated Boeing 727-200F .
Ahmet:  “I’ve been interested in aviation 
since I was 14 and studied a lot to enter 
this school. We use the donated FedEx 
plane to learn aircraft maintenance. For example, we remove and install smoke 
detectors, sliding windows, lighting 
and over-wing doors. These lessons are very useful. In my opinion, there is no 
difference between our education and 
learning on an active aircraft.
“I’ve flown many times — it’s an 
incredible experience. My dream job 
would be to work for FedEx as an aircraft mechanic in the United States of 
America!” 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
48Sema:  “Studying at Anadolu University 
has changed my life. Living away from 
my family has been difficult, but it helps 
me to improve myself. I haven’t flown yet, but I love studying aeronautics. 
There are 22 students in my aircraft 
mechanics class, and we find it very useful to work on a real aircraft. We do 
lots of maintenance tasks and visual 
inspections. 
“I thank FedEx for the support and 
opportunity. ” 
Sema AvsarAircraft Mechanics Student
Anadolu University, TurkeyI love studying 
aeronautics. We 
find it very useful 
to work on a real aircraft. We do lots 
of maintenance 
tasks and visual inspections. I thank 
FedEx for the support 
and opportunity.“
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
49We aim to connect the world responsibly 
and resourcefully by developing 
innovative, industry-leading solutions 
to reduce our environmental impact. In particular, we work to decouple our 
business growth from the greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions generated by our 652 airplanes, more than 144,000 owned 
and contracted vehicle fleet and close to 
6,000 facilities worldwide. 
Reducing the impact of the fuel and 
energy use that powers our business is a primary focus of our environmental 
programs. We are aggressive in our 
efforts to conserve energy and find viable alternative, renewable fuel sources. 
Our ambitious global goals drive our 
activities. In FY15, we were proud to achieve one of these goals five years 
early — a 33.5 percent  improvement 
in FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency 
from a 2005 baseline.  We are currently 
working on a new goal for our vehicles.
Our own efforts can only take us so far. 
We collaborate closely with government agencies and industry groups to support 
research and regulatory and policy 
changes that accelerate sustainability in our sector. We’re also focused on the 
sustainability of our vendors, as we 
join forces with them to find innovative solutions to environmental challenges.
Our EarthSmart®program encourages 
and recognizes innovation by FedEx 
team members and customers to 
improve our environmental performance. Throughout this report, there are many 
examples of EarthSmart initiatives 
making an impact around the world.Connecting 
the World Responsibly and Resourcefully
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
50Progress Toward Environmental Goals
GOAL PROGRESS
Reduce aircraft emissions intensity 30% from a 2005 baseline 
by 2020In FY15, our aircraft emissions intensity remained at a 21% reduction from the 2005 baseline. We are continuing our 
program of fleet upgrades and operational efficiencies — 
including through the FedEx® Fuel Sense program — in 
order to reach our goal within the next five years.
Obtain 30% of jet fuel from alternative fuels by 2030In FY15, we entered into an agreement with Colorado-based Red Rock Biofuels to purchase alternative jet fuel made from 
waste woody biomass. Starting in 2017 , FedEx will blend the first 6 million gallons of this jet fuel on-site — half Jet A 
and half biofuel — meeting current aviation regulations and 
ultimately producing at least 48 million gallons overthe term. 
Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency 30% from a 2005 baseline by 2020In FY15, we increased efficiency by 4%, cumulatively increasing efficiency by more than 33.5% from a 2005 
baseline  through FY15 and surpassing our goal five years 
early. We believe we can make significant further savings, and we are currently working on a new vehicle
sustainability goal.
Seek LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) 
certification on all new U.S. FedEx Express buildingsIn the U.S., 10 of our FedEx Express sites are LEED certified, 
and certification is underway at sites in Salt Lake City, 
Utah, and Memphis, Tennessee.  Additionally, the FedEx India headquarters in Mumbai and the new FedEx Office 
headquarters in Plano, Texas, received LEED certification
in FY15. 
Expand on-site generation and continue to procure renewable 
energy for facilitiesFive new solar energy systems came online in FY15, increasing our on-site energy generation capacity by 
more than 5.5 MW. In FY15, FedEx had 15 on-site solar installations, which collectively avoided 4,613 metric tons of 
CO
2e emissions during that year. FedEx Express surpassed its goal to increase vehicle 
fuel efficiency by 30% by 2020 five years early. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
51Through our carbon-neutral envelope 
shipping program, more thanFuel, Energy and 
Climate Change: Moving Forward
Moving packages and freight via aircraft 
and ground vehicles for customers 
around the world — our main operating 
activity — unavoidably results in fuel use and GHG emissions.
 
In FY15, we grew our business, increasing our daily average package 
volumes by 2.7 percent and the average 
FedEx Freight less-than-truckload (LTL) volume by 5.4 percent. This growth 
in goods delivery across all of our 
operating companies contributed to a 3 percent emissions increase from FY14.
 
At the same time, we continued to make companywide progress in our 
efficiency programs. In FY15, we avoided 
more than 1.7 million metric tons of CO
2e emissions across our global air 
and ground transportation operations. 
While we are proud of our work in this 
area, we are targeting more challenging reductions in the future.
have been sent as of FY15, resulting in investments in projects to offset associated carbon emissions. million envelopes 580 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
52FY14 saw the introduction of new U.S. 
fuel efficiency standards for commercial 
vehicles, envisioned and long supported 
by FedEx.
We are also advocating with 
U.S. regulators to 
allow larger 33-foot trailers in a twin-
configuration to 
reduce the number of trucks on the road.
We estimate that extending twin 28-foot trailers to 33 feet would increase freight 
capacity by 18 percent while reducing 
truck trips by 6.6 million a year and truck traffic by 1.3 billion miles per year. This 
in turn would prevent an estimated 900 
accidents a year while reducing annual carbon emissions by 4.4 billion pounds.  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 
SmartWay®Program
European Express Association U.S. Federal Aviation Administration U.S. Department of Energy, National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration and National Clean Fleets Partnership
International Air Transport Association 
and Airlines for America 
American Trucking AssociationsInternational Civil Aviation OrganizationReducing the environmental impacts of 
our industry is a complex and pressing challenge. We work with government 
and industry organizations on regulatory 
and policy changes that help the transportation industry reduce emissions 
and improve performance, including: 
Our Collaborators
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
53FY15 performance 
The tables summarize our global FY15 
performance on energy consumption, 
GHG emissions and other air pollutants. 
More detailed information is available in the GRI Index to this report. 
Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 
FY13 FY14 FY15 
DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Scope 1)
Aircraft fuel 159,553 154,661 157 ,652
Vehicle fuel138,397 38,458 39,717
Facility use 4,384 5,287 5,076
TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION 202,334 198,406 202,445
INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Scope 2)Facility electricity use 6,298 6,267 6,356
TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY 
CONSUMPTION208,632 204,673 208,801
OTHER INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Scope 3)
Contracted transportation 24,579 26,848 29,650
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 233,211 231,521 238,451
(1) Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
54Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (CO 2e metric tons)  
FY13 FY14 FY15 
DIRECT ENERGY EMISSIONS  (Scope 1)
Aircraft fuel 10,833,815 10,498,594 10,701,617
Vehicle fuel12,719,043 2,681,625 2,783,852
Facility use 221,193 270,726 265,719
TOTAL DIRECT EMISSIONS (Scope 1) 13,774,051 13,450,945 13,751,188
INDIRECT ENERGY EMISSIONS (Scope 2)
Facility electricity use 970,715 960,079 970,981
TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS 
(Scope 1 & 2)14,744,766 14,411,024 14,722,169
OTHER INDIRECT EMISSIONS (Scope 3)
Contracted transportation 1,738,802 1,843,803 2,023,433
Team member commercial air travel 47 ,635 45,758 50,897
TOTAL REPORTED SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 1,786,437 1,889,561 2,074,330
TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
(Scope 1, 2 & 3)16,531,203 16,300,585 16,796,499
(1)  Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
Other Significant Air Pollutants (metric tons) 
FY14 FY15 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) N/R 317 ,314
Sulfur oxides (SOx) 20,306 20,700
Particulate matter (PM 10) 3,407 4,120
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
55Solar electricity
generation29413,1454,613
639732122,474140,275
10,23010,625694,460721,239
4,1926,399281,803427 ,000
2,4033,048169,261214,746
375
1
2,94326,242207 ,301Combined Impact of Our Energy Saving Initiatives  
Energy Saved CO 2e Emissions Avoided
Building lighting retrofits
FedEx Fuel SenseFedEx Express aircraft fleet 
modernization
FedEx Express reduce, 
replace, revolutionize vehicle efficiency
FedEx Freight routing 
improvements and intermodal shipping
TOTAL FY14 17 ,868  TOTAL FY14 1,297 ,385
TOTAL FY15 23,788 TOTAL FY15 1,715,174Terajoules Metric tonsFY14 FY14
FY15 FY15
(1)FY14 data include net fuel savings associated with additional freight transported by rail compared to the previous fiscal year. FY15 data 
include all net fuel savings associated with transporting freight by rail in that fiscal year at FedEx Freight.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
56Aircraft Efficiency 
Gains 
Our approach to reducing aircraft fuel 
use and related GHG emissions intensity 
is straightforward and effective. We 
replace older airplanes with more fuel-efficient models and, through our global 
FedEx®Fuel Sense program, implement 
efficiencies in flight operations. These two initiatives saved almost 120 
million gallons of jet fuel and avoided 
almost 1.15 million metric tons of CO
2e 
emissions in FY15.  At the same time, 
we continue to explore viable alternative 
fuels that will power our jets of the future. 
Although our overall jet fuel use and 
related emissions rose slightly this year, due to the growth in air shipments, our 
CO
2e emissions for each available ton 
mile of cargo transported remained stable at approximately 1.19 lbs. Goal
Reduce aircraft emissions intensity 30% 
from a 2005 baseline by 2020
Progress
In 2015, our aircraft emissions intensity remained at a 21% reduction from the 
2005 baseline. We remain diligent in 
our program of fleet upgrades, and operational efficiencies through the 
FedEx Fuel Sense program, in order to 
reach our goal within the next five years.
FY13 FY14 FY1520% 21% 21%Progress against aircraft emissions- 
intensity 
reduction
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
57FedEx® Fuel Sense 
progress
Our rapid progress is a testament to 
the resourceful FedEx Fuel Sense team 
and the many front-line employees 
who came up with ideas that made fuel-efficient sense. Sustained success 
requires broad participation, new 
sources of ideas and a companywide culture of fuel-saving behaviors. $1 
billionOur FedEx Fuel Sense program has saved more than
in jet fuel since 2007
4 millionMore than
metric tons of CO 2e emissions 
avoided since 2007Savings from our global 
FedEx® Fuel Sense 
program reached an all-time one-year high in FY15, totaling almost 75 million gallons of jet fuel and avoiding more than 721,000 metric tons of CO
2e emissions.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
58FedEx has long collaborated with the 
FAA and Air Traffic Control to promote 
efficiency, including through Optimum 
Profile Descents (OPDs) that allow flights to land using the least possible amount 
of jet fuel. In FY15, we: 
Expanded OPDs to the Indianapolis 
airport, saving 100,000 gallons of jet fuel 
in the first month.    
Enhanced OPDs in Memphis through 
a “Descent Winds Uplink” program that automatically sends wind profile 
information to an aircraft 300 miles 
from its destination. This allows the aircraft’s flight management computer 
to determine when to start descending 
continuously without having to slow down or add power. Efficient landings save fuel and money
This measure increased 
OPD flights into Memphis by 30%, to 80% of all FedEx flights, saving an extra half million dollars in just four months.
Total fuel savings in FY15 
were 4.5 million gallons, resulting in a reduction of 42,536 metric tons of CO
2e emissions.  
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
5945
million 427 ,000 
gallons of jet fuel saved 
in FY15 through fleet upgradesmetric tons CO
2e 
emissions avoided in FY15 through fleet upgrades
By upgrading our air fleet to more 
efficient models, we add flexibility to our 
operations, improve our margins and 
reduce emissions. 
For example, in FY15, we added 17 
new Boeing 767-300 Freighters (B767F), which carry roughly the same amount of 
cargo as the MD10s they replace, but are 
about 30 percent more fuel efficient. In total, our upgraded aircraft saved us 45 million gallons of jet fuel in FY15 — 15 million more than in FY14 — and avoided 
427 ,000 metric tons of CO
2e emissions. 
We’re committed to continuing this 
program of fleet upgrades and will take delivery of 90 additional B767Fs between 
FY16 and FY23. These planes will play 
a significant role in achieving our 2020 aircraft emissions-intensity goal.As we upgrade our fleet, retired aircraft are donated to college aviation 
programs, airport fire agencies, 
museums and nonprofits such as Remote Area Medical, which flies free medical 
care to inaccessible communities around 
the world. Learn more.Fleet modernization progress
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
602016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 61Future fuels progress 
To connect the world responsibly and 
resourcefully, we are also working to 
transform the way our industry sources 
jet fuel. Sustainable alternatives, such as some biofuels, can offer many benefits. 
In addition to expanding energy sources 
and reducing emissions, they can support price and supply stability and 
can generate economic development in 
rural communities. We do not assume that all biofuels are beneficial and 
consider environmental impacts before 
including them in our fuel mix.  
We collaborate with our industry, 
government agencies, academia and alternative fuel suppliers in search of 
viable alternatives that can be produced 
at scale and at a competitive price. In 2017 , we will take our first delivery of 
biomass-based jet fuel from Red Rock 
Biofuels in Colorado.Goal
Obtain 30% of our jet fuel from alternative fuels by the year 2030 
Progress
In FY15, we entered into an agreement with Colorado-based Red Rock Biofuels 
to purchase alternative jet fuel made 
from waste woody biomass. Starting in 2017 , FedEx will blend the first 6 million 
gallons of this jet fuel on-site — half Jet 
A and half biofuel — meeting current aviation regulations and ultimately 
producing at least 48 million gallons 
over the term. We will procure half of Red Rock Biofuels’ planned initial 
supply. We are also working with other 
alternative fuel vendors and hope to make some more announcements in 
the coming years as this industry is 
starting to transition from the laboratory to production scale. We continue to 
engage with organizations such as the 
Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI), the American Society 
for Testing and Materials International 
(ASTM) and the U.S. Departments of Energy and Agriculture  to support the 
development of alternative fuels that will 
help us reach our goal.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
62Vehicle Efficiency 
Gains
With more than 144,000 owned and 
contracted vehicles, our ground 
transportation operations offer enormous 
potential for efficiency gains. Every year, we expand our efforts to upgrade to 
more efficient models, install efficiency-
enhancing features into existing vehicles and implement energy-conserving 
measures such as rerouting and utilizing 
intermodal rail. 
Through the FedEx Express Reduce, 
Replace, Revolutionize strategy, we exceeded our goal to improve our vehicle 
fuel efficiency 30 percent from 2005 
levels by 2020. Combined with greater use of intermodal rail shipping at FedEx 
Freight, we saved more than 40 million 
gallons of fuel and avoided more than 422,000 metric tons of CO
2e emissions 
in FY15.  We’re also developing solutions 
for the future by testing and investing in 
new technologies.Goal
Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency 30% from a 2005 baseline by 
2020
Progress
In FY15 we increased efficiency by 4%, 
cumulatively increasing efficiency by 
more than 33.5% from a 2005 baseline  
and surpassing our goal five years early. We believe we can make significant 
further savings, and we are currently 
working on a new vehicle sustainability goal. 
30% by 2020 33.5% in 2015Progress against goals 
for increased 
fuel efficiency
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
63Mitch Jackson (MJ):  How is FedEx 
Express showing innovation and 
leadership on vehicle-related fuel use 
and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions?
Russ Musgrove (RM):: We have a defined, 
high-level strategy — Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize. Our first priority is to 
reduce overall mileage by optimizing Reduce, Replace, 
Revolutionize: 
How FedEx Express leads on vehicle fuel economy
In FY15 — five years early — FedEx 
Express surpassed its goal to boost 
fuel efficiency across its 50,000-strong 
vehicle fleet. Given the fleet’s size, this was an important win not just for FedEx 
but the entire industry. 
Mitch Jackson, Vice President, 
Environmental Affairs & Sustainability, 
sat down with Russ Musgrove, Managing Director of FedEx Express Global 
Vehicles, to shed light on how FedEx 
reached that goal and discuss its vision moving forward.Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize program, we’ve saved more than 137 million gallons of fuel and avoided almost 1.5 
million metric tons of CO
2e emissions. 
MJ: Looking ahead 10 years, what kind 
of vehicle fleet do you foresee for FedEx Express? 
RM: It becomes more difficult now, 
because the technology to achieve the next goal doesn’t exist today. We’re 
back where we were in 2008. In major 
metropolitan cities, we’re moving toward electric vehicles and starting to make 
connections with utility companies. We 
have a couple of thousand routes that could be run with electric vehicles, but 
right now there’s no manufacturer with 
the capacity to help us scale up to that anytime soon. And it’s going to take 
manufacturers to do this. Fleets can’t 
produce the vehicles on their own.We’re also focusing on hydrogen fuel 
cells, which can help expand the zero 
emission range for electric vehicles.
MJ: Thanks Russ. Your team has taken 
what I call the License to Optimize and shown how to use technical expertise 
and creative energy to find new ways to 
change what’s possible. I commend you and your team for doing that.
gallons of 
fuel savedmetric tons of CO 2e 
emissions avoided137 1. 5 million millionroutes so that our entire vehicle fleet 
travels the minimum miles needed 
to deliver our services. But reducing 
overall mileage is just the first step. Replacing vehicles is next, so we’ve 
also introduced more efficient models 
with 4 cylinder, sub 3 liter diesel engines — which are much more fuel 
efficient — and maximized fuel economy 
by reprogramming vehicles to run at optimal levels for their weight and load.
Excitingly, we’re also focused on new 
technology — the Revolutionize phase. We’re looking at electric vehicles, fuel 
cells and hybrids, among others. 
MJ: In FY15, FedEx Express has already 
surpassed its goal of improving vehicle 
fuel efficiency by 30 percent between 2005 and 2020, five years early. Were you 
surprised at the speed of progress?
RM: I was terrified of that goal when we 
set it in 2008. Most of the technology 
needed didn’t exist at the time. But with all hands on deck, we achieved it. 
First we balanced the fleet, matching 
the right truck to the right route. We also embraced new policies in efficiency and 
became an industry leader in adopting 
new technologies. Since starting the 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
64In April 2015, we began testing 15 zero- 
emission hydrogen fuel-cell powered 
cargo tractors at our FedEx Express hub 
at the Memphis airport. Drivers dispense hydrogen directly from a 15,000 gallon 
fueling station on the airport ramp.  The 
two-year test should result in estimated savings of more than 175,000 gallons of 
diesel fuel and 1,700 metric tons of 
CO
2e emissions.
What looks like a golf cart but can pull a 
40,000-pound load with zero tailpipe emissions?
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
65Operating optimally 
Wherever we go on the world’s roads, 
we look to operate optimally, in ways 
that reduce fuel use, emissions
and congestion.
We match vehicles to journey based on 
load volume and route length, and plot the shortest routes. We also apply our 
logistics expertise to reduce “empty” miles, when trucks travel with 
less than optimal loading, and to serve 
customers more efficiently for less time-
sensitive shipments. 
We achieve this with fuel-conserving 
technologies such as automatic transmission and trailer skirts that 
minimize drag and diagnostic 
installed trailer skirts, replaced automatic transmissions and 
refreshed its vehicle fleet — resulting in a saved completed the on-road testing 
of aerodynamics technology 
specifically designed for drop-frame trailers equipment. Our drivers also use 
techniques such as idle reduction and 
speed control to conserve fuel.
1.8% increase
in vehicle fuel efficiency in FY15of fuel and avoided more than 
214,000 metric tons of CO 2e by 
continuing its Reduce, Replace, 
Revolutionize philosophy20.8 million 
gallons FedEx Freight FedEx Express FedEx Ground
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
66Reducing truck miles
While trucking is one way of connecting 
our customers, we use intermodal rail 
where appropriate, since rail is more 
fuel-efficient than roads.
We’re also expanding the number of 
locations where customers can pick up packages, which cuts down on “last-
mile” deliveries by FedEx Express and 
FedEx Ground.
In FY15, our rail usage increased by 10.4 percent at FedEx Freight, carrying 
more than 2 million pounds of freight, 
resulting in net savings of more than 20 million gallons of diesel and avoiding 
more than 207 ,000 metric tons of CO
2e 
emissions. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
67Upgrading to a cleaner, 
greener fleet
When replacing any road vehicle, we 
upgrade to cleaner, more efficient 
models wherever possible. 
Under our fleet upgrade program, we 
now have almost 2,800 Isuzu Reach vans 
in service, which are 35–50 percent more efficient than the models they replaced. 
In FY15, we added more than 400 
Mercedes Benz Sprinter vans to our fleet, bringing our total to more than 9,500 in service. The Sprinter vans are 70–100 
percent more fuel efficient than the walk-
in vehicles they replaced.  
We also expanded our fleet of 
alternative-fuel vehicles to almost 1,900 in FY15.  We believe the wider adoption 
of alternative-fuel and advanced 
technology vehicles will play a critical part in reducing global GHG emissions. That’s why we have invested in testing 
emerging technologies such as cargo tow 
tractors powered by hydrogen fuel-cells and have added 50 more hybrid vehicles 
to the fleet in FY15. It is important to note 
that in order to be able to purchase these types of alternative-fuel vehicles, they 
need to be commercially available.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
68HybridVEHICLE TYPE
Electric
Compressed or 
liquefied natural 
gas (CNG/LNG)
Liquefied 
petroleum gas 
(propane)2
Hydrogen
TOTALSFY151,8923   FY141,001  FY13703363
214
45
41
40397
404
911
69
40447
1,176
122
92
552013
2014
2015
(1) Restated from FY14 Global Citizenship Report.
(2)  Total does not include propane-powered forklifts.(3) Includes off-road electric vehicles in service but not reported in prior years. Global Alternative Fuel Vehicle Fleet
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
69Progress at Our 
Facilities
FedEx has almost 6,000 facilities 
worldwide, including air and ground 
hubs, local stations, freight service 
centers and retail sites. Our operating companies conserve energy across their 
facilities through efficiency initiatives 
and engaging team members to adopt energy-saving habits.
  
FedEx Freight has a GREEN Site program that motivates site managers and team 
members to conserve energy, reduce 
waste and make other environmental improvements. By the end of FY15, 227 
sites were designated GREEN Sites — up 
from 192 the previous year. 
FedEx Ground is pursuing an internal 
Sustainability 2020 vision that covers energy efficiency, renewable energy 
sourcing, waste reduction and more. 
In FY15, we launched an EarthSmart Champion program to boost participation 
in sustainability activities, which will pilot 
in 27 locations across six regions in the U.S. and Canada. Four FedEx Ground 
sites are LEED certified.
The new headquarters of FedEx Office in 
Plano, Texas, also achieved a LEED core 
certification. The site includes electric vehicle charging stations, composting 
facilities and floor-to-ceiling windows 
providing natural light.Goal
Seek LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) 
certification on all new U.S. FedEx 
Express buildings
Progress
• In the U.S., 10 FedEx Express sites are LEED certified, totaling 1.95 
million square feet. Certification is 
underway at sites in Salt Lake City, Utah, and Memphis, Tennessee. 
• The FedEx India headquarters facility in Mumbai received LEED 
GOLD certification in 2015. The 
building is home to more than 800 FedEx team members working in 
Customer Service, Sales, Finance 
and Operations. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
70Energy conservation
To conserve energy in older buildings, 
we focus on retrofitting inefficient 
lighting and HVAC systems. In FY15, 
244 facilities received lighting upgrades, making a total of 1,031 facilities since the 
program began in 2007 . The new lighting 
systems saved more than 203 million kWh of electricity over the year, and 
avoided more than 140,000 metric tons 
of CO
2e emissions. 
Clean and renewable 
energy 
By using on-site renewable energy 
technologies like solar power and fuel 
cells, we reduce our GHG emissions and 
operating expenses, while demonstrating leadership in our industry. Notably, the 
Solar Energy Industries Association 
ranked FedEx 12th for capacity and 18th for number of sites in this year’s “Solar 
Means Business” report.
 We had success generating electricity 
with solid oxide fuel cells in Rialto 
and Oakland, California, and we are implementing a fuel cell energy 
generation system at our FedEx Express 
hub in Newark, New Jersey.  
To help accelerate renewable energy 
procurement, we joined the Rocky Mountain Institute Business Renewables 
Center in FY15.Goal
Expand on-site generation and continue 
to procure renewable energy for our 
facilities 
Progress
Five new solar energy systems 
came online in FY15, bringing the 
companywide total to 15 and increasing 
our on-site energy generation capacity by more than 5.5 MW. Collectively, these 
15 sites avoided 4,613  metric tons of 
CO
2e emissions during the year.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
71Our largest solar installation began 
operating at the FedEx Ground hub 
in Hagerstown, Maryland, in April 
2015. With more than 8,000 solar panels, it will produce enough power 
to avoid more than 2,268 metric tons 
(5 million pounds) of CO
2e from fossil 
fuel electricity generation. The panels 
are expected to replace 40–50 percent 
of the facility’s total energy use — equivalent to the electricity used by 
more than 200 homes in a year.
 Solar Energy Generation
9
6,492,977
2,451
FY13 FY14 FY151015
8,163,838
3,14511,260,165
4,613Number of 
solar facilities
Solar electricity 
generated on-
site (KWh)
Emissions 
saved by solar 
sites (metric 
tons CO 2e)How many solar panels does it take to avoid  
5 million pounds of greenhouse gases a year?
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
72Using Materials: 
T aking a Smarter, Greener Route
The least sustainable package is one 
that is delivered damaged and has to 
be returned and/or replaced. So our 
approach is to be resourceful in finding ways we can conserve materials while 
still delivering packages in perfect 
condition. Our main use of materials is cardboard packaging for our customers’ 
parcels and freight. We aim to right-size 
We collaborate with our suppliers to 
increase their focus on sustainability, 
and our efforts are led by our Supplier 
Relationship Management team, which has a full-time team member dedicated 
to improving supply chain sustainability. 
For more information about our supplier packaging by reducing unnecessary empty space. We also work with 
suppliers to include recycled content in 
packaging and to reuse materials such as wooden pallets and air pillows as many 
times as possible. 
Other materials we use in significant 
volumes include paper stock, office supplies and vehicle parts for our fleet. 
We look for ways to avoid using virgin 
materials, for example by sourcing 
remanufactured office products like furniture and printer cartridges and using 
retreaded tires. In FY15, 41 percent of 
our operational materials, other than paper and packaging, included recycled 
content.
Materials Consumption (metric tons) 
FY13 FY14 FY15 FY15 
Paper 26,999 25,143 24,577 13%
Packaging 43,628 49,952 54,342 49%
Other operational materials N/R 16,427 28,929 41%
TOTAL MATERIALS CONSUMPTION 70,627 91,522 107 ,848 39%
purchasing policies, please see the 
Economy section. 
Our sustainability work with suppliers 
can be the catalyst for innovations that 
have a wider benefit. For example, our 
search for less toxic aircraft deicing fluid that also maintains the performance required for our aircraft operations led to 
the development of a product now used 
not only by FedEx, but also by other airlines at multiple airports.% of Recycled Content of 
Materials Used
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
73Paper use
FedEx Office understands the world’s 
forests play a critical role in supporting 
biodiversity, maintaining water quality, 
moderating the planet’s climate and sustaining diverse economic, social and 
indigenous cultural traditions.  Customer 
documents at FedEx Office make up most of our paper use. Our outlets stock 
clearly labeled sustainably sourced paper 
options, which we encourage customers to choose. The FedEx Office procurement 
policy for forest-based products requires 
vendors to apply responsible forest management practices and standards 
for recycled content. We conduct 
assessments and audits of supplier operations against these standards. 
Sustainable
paper at
FedEx OfficeFY15 by  
the numbersFOREST STEWARDSHIP 
COUNCIL CERTIFIED
OTHER THIRD-
PARTY CERTIFIED
NONCERTIFIED83%
13%
4%
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
74Packaging
Cardboard accounts for about 80 
percent of FedEx packaging worldwide.  
Most of this cardboard, which includes 
about 55 percent recycled content, is FedEx branded packaging provided 
to customers for shipping.  We also 
use bubble wrap, plastic air pillows, chipboard, Tyvek envelopes and tape to 
safely transport documents, packages 
and freight.  We look for creative ways to avoid using virgin materials without 
compromising cargo safety — for 
example, by shredding used cardboard boxes to use as packing material instead 
of polystyrene or plastic air pillows.  
To ensure we provide our customers 
with accurate information, we now 
require quarterly updates from packaging suppliers that include details on recycled and third-party certified content. 
Our work in improving the transparency 
of our packaging reporting won an 
Outstanding Case Study Award at the 
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council Summit in 2015. 
We also encourage customers to use 
the most efficient packaging option. Our 
dimensional weight pricing takes into 
account package size, as well as weight. It discourages over-sized packaging, 
saving raw materials and reducing 
environmental impact. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
75Avoiding landfill
FedEx recycles almost 70 percent of the  
reported solid waste from its North 
American operations. Our main waste 
streams include scrap metal, wooden pallets, plastic, cardboard and paper, as 
well as aluminum cans, plastic and glass 
bottles used by team members. 
Some reuse programs require making 
creative connections — a prime example being our uniform recycling program in 
Brazil. 
In other cases, changing our relationship 
with suppliers and haulers makes the 
difference. For example, FedEx Office recently negotiated contract changes 
that will require machine vendors to take 
back equipment at end of life to reuse  or recycle. 
FedEx Office also operates an EarthSmart 
designated paper recycling program 
internally and for customers at retail 
locations in North America that collected 6.5 million pounds of paper in FY15.  
Team member engagement plays a 
major role in the success of our recycling programs.FedEx Freight 
implemented a 
document-shred initiative in FY15 that 
significantly boosted 
paper recycling rates from nearly 600,000 
pounds to more than 
1 .1 million pounds of paper.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
76Waste and Recycling1 (metric tons) 
FY13 FY14 FY15 
Total reported waste 163,291 204,235 218,614
Total reported waste sent to recyclers 108,297 140,920 152,995
% sent to recyclers 66% 69% 70%
(1) Refers to data collected in North America. 
FY15 Waste and Recycling Streams1 (metric tons) 
Waste type T otal waste Sent to recyclers % sent to recyclers 
Solid waste 207 ,417 143,637 69%
Regulated non-hazardous waste 9,290 7 ,652 82%
Hazardous waste 821 619 75%
Universal waste270 70 100%
Electronic waste 1,017 1,017 100%
(1) Refers to data collected in North America only. Waste at many of our facilities is difficult to track as it is collected by haulers contracted by 
a landlord or local municipality, or comingled with other tenants’ waste in shared facilities such as airports and strip malls, and as such 
has not been included in this data. 
(2) Universal waste encompasses certain hazardous waste items, including batteries and mercury-containing lamp bulbs, as defined by U.S. 
EPA regulations.
Water 
FedEx is not a major water consumer. 
Bathrooms, kitchens and outdoor 
sprinklers account for most of the water 
used by our facilities. Nevertheless, we install water-conservation technologies in water-stressed regions. The majority 
of FedEx airplanes and some trucks are 
cleaned with a “dry wash” process that uses soapy liquid containing little water. 
Most of this maintenance is carried out by third-party vendors using their own water supply and is therefore not 
recorded by FedEx.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
77Community Connections 
Environment
Sustaining People and Places
Sustainability at FedEx goes beyond our own 
operations and supply chain. It’s also behind our connections with communities around the world. We engage our team members and nonprofit collaborators locally and globally to build more sustainable, resilient communities. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE - 
78Connecting sustainable 
transportation across three continents 
FedEx is a proud supporter of 
EMBARQ, an initiative of the World 
Resources Institute that provides 
practical, sustainable and scalable transportation solutions to cities in the 
developing world. In addition to financial 
assistance, FedEx provides EMBARQ with technical and logistical support. 
Through the Mobility and Accessibility 
Program (MAP), we help EMBARQ deliver sustainable transportation best 
practices, including improved public 
transit systems and driver training, to congested and polluted cities including 
Mexico City, São Paulo, Bangalore and 
Beijing.
In FY15, we expanded our collaboration 
from Mexico, India and Brazil to China. A new MAP capacity-building initiative will help Chinese transportation authorities 
to lower carbon emissions and develop 
more sustainable transportation systems across the country.  EMBARQ impacts since 
2010:
Annual number of people 
benefited:
2,022,042 Community Connections 
Environment
CO 2e emissions avoided: 
40,000 
metric tons
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
79Acting EarthSmart  
Through EarthSmart Outreach, we 
encourage team members across the 
United States to lend their time and 
talents to local environmental volunteer projects. Our volunteers work with 
community nonprofits on projects 
that restore natural habitats, including removing invasive plant species, planting 
trees and restoring degraded landscapes.
The National Fish and Wildlife 
Foundation (NFWF), which works to 
protect and restore plants, fish, wildlife and habitats, is a key EarthSmart 
Outreach collaborator. Since 2010, 
FedEx has provided more than $2.5 million to support 94 NFWF projects 
nationwide, leveraging an additional $2 
million in funding from other federal and nonfederal organizations and more than 
$15 million in grantee match for a total 
conservation impact of more than $19.5 million.    
Since 2012, FedEx has also supported the 
Arbor Day Foundation’s Community Tree 
Recovery program. In FY15, we provided 
$350,000 to communities affected by natural disasters across 10 U.S. states to 
help restore forests and also used team 
member volunteers and our logistics network to support the distribution 
and planting program. For example, 
in Colorado, we provided funding for trees, donated shipping from the nursery 
to the distribution center and utilized 
volunteer support to distribute trees to homeowners. 
Community Connections 
Environment
EarthSmart Outreach 
impacts since FY09:
94
projects
2,260
volunteers
111,409
trees planted
2,435
acres of habitat 
restored
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
80Reusing FedEx resources 
to support communities  
Our team members go through a lot 
of uniforms over the years. In Brazil, 
FedEx Express team members asked the question, “What if we could turn worn-
out uniforms into something that would 
benefit communities in need?” And they 
came up with an answer.
 
They collected 2,676 used clothing items 
from 17 FedEx locations in Brazil, totaling more than 1,800 pounds of fabric. Local companies specializing in reverse 
logistics for work uniforms, Retalhar and 
Amigas Arteiras, then transformed the uniform fabric into 825 low-cost blankets. 
These in turn were donated to Rede Rua 
(The Street Network) and Amigos do Bem (Friends of Good) — community 
organizations that support the homeless 
and impoverished communities in São Paulo and the northeast interior.
  Our team members personally delivered 
blankets to a homeless shelter in the 
Santo Amaro region in São Paulo.
The recycling initiative also brought the 
added benefit of keeping the uniforms 
from landfill or incineration, preventing the release of an estimated 1.24 metric 
tons of greenhouse gases.“Community Connections 
Environment
It was an incredible 
experience, When you deliver a blanket 
to someone in 
need and get an enthusiastic ‘thank 
you’ accompanied 
by a big smile, it changes the way you 
see life.
Guilherme Cardoso
Associate Marketing Specialist, FedEx 
Express Brazil
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
81People
At FedEx, our passion is to empower people 
everywhere to deliver it forward. This starts with our team members, who connect every day with customers and communities across the world. Through personal and professional support, development and opportunity, we foster a culture where people deliver exceptional experiences and outstanding service.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
82What does a Las 
Vegas truck driver 
have in common 
with a school kid in Shanghai?
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
83I saw a trucking 
school ad, took an 
intensive course and 
had my license within two weeks. I applied 
to FedEx and couldn’t 
have asked for a better job.“
Rebecca ParkerFedEx Freight City DriverThe bright lights of Las Vegas, 
Nevada, don’t distract FedEx Freight City Driver Rebecca Parker. With an eight-year safe driving record at FedEx Freight, she is focused on the road — and a job she loves. 
“Ten years ago, I saw a trucking school 
ad, took an intensive course and had 
my license within two weeks. I applied 
to FedEx and couldn’t have asked for a better job. It’s perfect for a single mom. 
I have full benefits, can support my kids 
and I’m home at night and on holidays. I’m always telling other moms that FedEx 
has a free truck driving training program! 
“I also use my FedEx Freight trailer to 
help local nonprofits deliver everything 
from back-to-school supplies to food for the homeless when our location 
participates in these drives. I love that 
the company gives us the tools to make a real impact in our communities.
“The one thing I believe in whole-
heartedly is safety. As a certified Road 
Test Observer and Road Test Coach, I 
train new team members to observe FedEx driver safety guidelines and 
learn safe habits. I love that FedEx puts 
safety first above all for its drivers, its communities and through the programs 
that it supports. ”
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
84 When I was eight … 
a stranger pulled me 
back onto the curb — 
just as a vehicle drove past and would have 
hit me. It’s wonderful 
to pay that forward...at FedEx through our 
safety programs for 
kids.“
Shane O’ConnorProgram Advisor for Road and  
Pedestrian Safety at FedExShane O’Connor, Program Advisor for 
Road and Pedestrian Safety at FedEx, helps lead our global philanthropic giving programs. Keeping team members and communities safe is personal as well as professional. 
“When I was eight, there was an incident 
I’ll never forget. A stranger pulled me 
back onto the curb — just as a vehicle 
drove past that would have hit me. It’s wonderful to be able to pay that forward 
some 50 years later at FedEx through our 
safety programs for kids.
“Safety is paramount to our operations. 
We have more than 100,000 vehicles on the world’s roads. In addition to 
rigorous internal controls, we encourage 
participation in safety competitions like the National Truck Driving 
Championships. Our winners literally 
have celebrity status.
“Externally, we make a big difference 
through nonprofit collaborations. Working with EMBARQ in Mexico 
City, they adapted our driver safety 
manual — like the one used by Rebecca Parker — to train local Bus Rapid Transit 
(BRT) drivers. The implementation of 
BRT resulted in a dramatic 30 percent decrease in accidents on these routes. 
“Through Safe Kids Worldwide, another 
long-standing nonprofit relationship, 
we have reached 13 million children 
in 10 countries. One of my proudest achievements was supporting Safe 
Kids China in achieving the country’s 
first school zone regulations. To impact kids’ safety for a whole society is just 
incredible. ”
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
85FedEx helped us 
conduct a survey that 
provided evidence of 
child safety risks in school zones. With 
this, we worked 
with the national government to enact 
legislation that set 
speed limits and safety signage  
around schools.“
Monica Cui
Director, Safe Kids China“Sadly, for children ages 14 and under, the leading cause of death in China is 
road related. As an NGO, we cannot 
enact national changes. We have to get data, do surveys, educate the public 
and introduce ideas to decision makers. 
FedEx helped us conduct a survey that provided evidence of child safety risks 
in school zones. With this, we worked 
with the national government to enact legislation that set speed limits and 
safety signage around schools for the 
first time. 
“We also work with FedEx in 
communities. Through our Walkability Assessments, we train local parents, 
students and FedEx volunteers to walk 
around schools and assess safety infrastructure. This then empowers 
school officials to better advocate 
for improved local laws and safety infrastructure. 
“Educating parents and children is 
also important. This year, we created 
a safety video — shared widely across 
China — adapted from a “moment of silence” video sponsored by FedEx. We 
also gave disposable cameras to school 
children to document unsafe behaviors, creating educational displays that raise 
awareness in schools and public areas. ” Monica Cui, Director of Safe Kids 
China, has spent a decade-plus campaigning tirelessly for safer streets — with help from FedEx. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
86FedEx volunteers 
have us practice 
safety to do it right. 
They teach us with game tools, even use 
a real van... We like to 
call them big brothers 
and big sisters.“
Li Song Lin
Student and beneficiary of Safe Kids 
China programs“Safe Kids has been part of my schooling 
since grade three when our Safe Kids 
teacher and FedEx volunteers taught us 
how to use STOP , LOOK AND CROSS. In grade four, they taught us about more 
difficult crossings. For example, we 
always look for “the zebra” or traffic light, but when these are not available, 
we make sure we can see the entire road 
before crossing. I use these tips each day.
“My favorite memory from the program 
was when the coach of China’s national 
badminton team, Li Yongbo, and famous 
badminton players, came to our school. It was like dreaming. Our heroes were 
teaching us about safe walking!
“FedEx volunteers have us practice 
safety to do it right. They teach us with 
game tools, even use a real van to show us about vehicle lights. They are very 
kind, we like to call them big brothers 
and big sisters. ”Li Song Lin, 12, feels safe and 
confident walking to his Shanghai school, thanks to road safety tips taught to his class and 364,000 other Chinese students by Safe Kids China and FedEx volunteers. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
87Connecting the world responsibly 
and resourcefully begins and ends 
with people. At FedEx, we have the 
privilege of connecting with millions of people every day. In our interactions 
with customers and communities, we 
work to deliver exceptional service and unforgettable experiences. Within FedEx, 
we foster a safe, diverse, supportive and 
inclusive environment for all. This means providing team members worldwide 
with opportunities to excel, competitive 
benefits and a culture that supports long-term development and well-being.  
The Purple Promise 
In joining FedEx, every team member commits to our Purple Promise — 
to make every FedEx experience 
outstanding. The Purple Promise is not just words; it’s a far-reaching 
commitment that spans every aspect of 
our business.
Every year, we hold the Purple Promise 
Awards for team members who go above and beyond for the people they 
serve. In FY15, we presented 91 Purple 
Promise Awards and 18 Purple Promise Chairman’s Awards for stand-out team 
members. Each of these individuals 
brings exceptional service to customers and has an inspiring story to tell. Connecting
and Sustaining People 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
88Code of business conduct 
and ethics 
Delivering on the Purple Promise 
requires constant professionalism from 
team members. Our global Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics sets a high standard for behavioral conduct in areas 
that include workplace health, safety and 
environment, human rights, harassment and discrimination, conflicts of interest 
and gifts and entertainment. Every team 
member is familiarized with the Code during onboarding and encouraged to 
report all suspected violations using our 
24-hour FedEx Alert Line service or by contacting management, Legal or Human 
Resources. The Code is publicly available 
on our website.
Retaining our best and 
brightest 
Many of our team members are with us 
for the long haul. Some stay for their 
entire careers.
We work hard to earn 
their loyalty and in 
FY15 succeeded in 
retaining 80% of our full-time U.S.
team members. In this time period, a total of 107 ,440 
team members left the company, or 33 
percent of our global FY15 team member 
headcount. During the peak holiday season, we hire additional, temporary personnel, which impacts our turnover 
rates. Additionally, in FY15, we hired 
approximately 50,000 seasonal workers, globally. This, along with other factors, 
causes our retention rate to fluctuate 
during the year. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
89Our Safety Above All 
culture is delivering 
results. “
Our Commitment to 
Safety
David J. Bronczek, President and CEO 
FedEx Express
Our commitment to safety at FedEx 
Express goes hand in hand with 
our commitment to Quality Driven Management. In our unique Safety 
Above All culture, we measure and 
manage operational safety on a daily basis, just as we manage every other 
business function for quality outcomes.
FedEx Express operates the world’s 
premier intercontinental air express 
network and the largest dedicated all-cargo air fleet. From our rigorous 
operational safety audits to our 
comprehensive Aviation Safety Action Program, we have long been an 
industry leader in safe and secure flight 
operations. We added Enhanced Flight Vision Systems (EFVS) to hundreds of 
our aircraft, which greatly improve pilots’ 
ability to land in low visibility conditions and at night. Fire suppression systems 
developed and engineered by FedEx are 
installed on our Boeing 777F and MD-11 aircraft to reduce the risk of onboard fire 
while in flight.
We are taking safety to the next level 
in 2016. In close collaboration with the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), 
and other global regulatory agencies, we are improving and expanding our 
Safety Management System — or SMS 
— the formal process to manage risk in our airline operation. The aim of SMS is 
to prevent accidents, errors and failures 
before they occur. This requires careful recording and monitoring of potentially 
adverse conditions. SMS establishes 
organizational accountability for safety starting at the top. My role as CEO is to 
ensure that reported concerns are fully 
documented and assigned to a team leader for follow-up. 
Our total quality approach to safety 
extends to our global vehicle fleet. With 
more than 54,000 courier vans, container 
transport and ground service vehicles on the move around the world, FedEx 
Express logs more than 1.1 billion miles 
annually in service to our customers.  
FedEx Express fleet safety starts with 
applied technology in the form of speed control limiters on our transport vehicles, 
along with advanced collision mitigation 
systems which warn drivers and even apply the brakes if necessary to slow the 
vehicle. Enhanced stability and traction 
control systems and lane departure warning technology help keep FedEx Express vehicles on the right path, as do our in-cab data and voice communication 
capabilities. On the human side, our 
nearly 40,000 U.S. package delivery couriers are oriented regularly in 
safe, slow-speed maneuvering when 
approaching and departing a customer’s location.
Finally, we continue to strengthen 
controls over the movement of 
hazardous materials in our global 
network. Our Safety Governance Board conducts regular outreach and customer 
education regarding proper handling of 
dangerous goods. FedEx customers are the beneficiaries of tools, technology 
and materials to help reduce human 
error and mitigate risk in areas such as transportation of lithium batteries.
Quality Driven Management is the way 
we deliver superior performance and 
an outstanding customer experience. 
We use the same language, tools and metrics at FedEx Express to manage 
safety throughout our worldwide 
operation every day. Our Safety Above All culture is delivering results.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
90Safety Above All FY15 
initiatives 
Each FedEx operating company 
implements initiatives that meet the 
unique safety needs of its business 
as well as adhering to companywide standards.
In addition to the initiatives outlined in the Our Commitment to Safety statement FedEx Express has also 
implemented the following initiatives: 
• Installing life-saving Automated 
External Defibrillators (AED) through 
the entire trunk aircraft fleet, which includes more than 300 aircraft.
• Hosted “ Accident Prevention Week” 
across all 50 stations in Brazil. The 
event raised awareness about safety best practices through team meetings 
and educational poster distribution.
• Redesigned team member safety 
courses to accommodate the differences in learning styles 
between baby boomers and younger 
generations joining the workforce. For example, new-hire couriers were 
trained using iPads, enabling mobility 
during the training and catering to their technologically savvy learning style.  • Introduced 39 Road Driver Advisors across the U.S. These specialists support service center managers and 
drivers by facilitating safety education, 
coordination and analysis.
• Received awards in 18 U.S. states for outstanding safety performance.
• Installed additional video event data recorders to capture accident 
information at 33 hubs, resulting in 
a 65 percent annual decrease in yard accidents across these sites.
Keeping
People Safe 
Each day, hundreds of thousands of 
FedEx team members are on the move, 
making connections that support people 
and commerce in every corner of the globe. From our offices and hubs to 
roads and airways, it is our top priority 
to ensure the safety of the people and communities we serve.
We incorporate safety principles into all 
aspects of our international network of 
people, facilities and technology. Our 
Safety Above All philosophy, backed by strict policies, robust team member 
education and cutting edge equipment 
and technology, is designed to prevent accidents. We do whatever it takes to 
protect our team members and the 
public.
One accident is too many, and we remain 
committed to employing new measures, educational programs and procedures in 
order to get them down to zero.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
91Safety performance 
Measuring and reporting on our 
global safety record enables us to 
identify challenges and improve our 
performance. We use two key reporting metrics, Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 
and Preventable Recordable Vehicle 
Accident Rate (per 1 million miles driven). LTIR covers nonfatal injuries 
or work-related illnesses that cause a 
team member to lose work time. The Preventable Recordable Vehicle Accident 
Rate measures accidents that resulted in 
preventable fatalities or injuries.
Preventing workplace 
violence
Workplace violence is never tolerated, 
and preventing incidents is a top safety 
priority and a continuous effort at FedEx, 
supported by prevention programs and rapid response procedures across our 
company. Collaborators in safety
We work with a number of external 
collaborators to ensure our continued 
commitment and compliance with 
industry safety standards.
Global Safety Data
FY13 FY14 FY15 
Lost Time Injury Rates, Per 200,000 Hours Worked13.85 3.98 3.83
Preventable Recordable Vehicle Accident Rates, Per 1 Million Miles Driven0.302 0.311 0.293
(1) Global LTIR data is based on definitions from the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). FY13 and FY14 
LTIR revised from last year’s reported rates due to updated injury data for APAC region.Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance
American Trucking Associations (ATA)American Society of Safety Engineers 
(ASSE)
Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
AdministrationIn FY15, our LTIR improved by 4 percent.
Our Preventable Recordable Vehicle Accident Rate improved by almost 6 
percent (see table below). 
Through our companywide Safety Above 
All 2 initiative, we continue to focus on 
the critical educational and management aspects of reducing lost-time injuries. 
Safety Above All 2 places particular 
emphasis on educating new hires, developing facility safety action plans 
and delivering safety education for team 
members at all levels.
Every FedEx team member receives annual training designed to prevent violent incidents at our hubs and other 
facilities. We encourage team members 
to report both potential for violence and actual incidents using our 24-hour FedEx Alert Line service, or by 
contacting management, Legal or Human 
Resources. All such reports are promptly investigated by our Workplace Violence 
Response Team.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
92Expanding T eam 
Member Horizons
People want to learn and grow. By giving 
them the chance to do so, we support 
our company’s growth and success, 
and encourage talented team members to stay with us for the long haul. By 
providing opportunities to excel and 
listening to feedback, as well as investing in health, we strive to empower our team 
members at every level.  
Providing opportunity 
We know that team member 
development and hiring from within 
make for a better business. In FY15, 
team members companywide benefited from an average of 16.57 hours of formal 
training per person, with access to a 
variety of other programs for further learning. Our investments included the 
following opportunities:
Accessible training: We expanded 
our premier online team member training platform, the FedEx Learning 
Center, which allows team members to easily search through an extensive 
course catalog, self-enroll in educational 
courses, track progress and review their learning history. The Learning 
Center offers a total of more than 
16,000 courses in topics ranging from Quality Driven Management Tools to 
Presentation Skills. In FY15, we made 
these courses available to more than 302,000 team members, up from 275,000 
in FY14. Tuition assistance:  Each year, we 
provide tuition assistance for higher education to support the professional 
growth of our full-time and part-time team members. Programs vary by 
operating company with stipends 
ranging from $1,500 to $5,000 per person per year depending on the 
position they hold with the company. In 
FY15, we helped 3,226 team members elevate their learning through 
this benefit.
Promotion opportunities:  To 
maximize hiring from within, we often post positions internally first and deploy 
our Executive Development Teams to prepare team members for career 
progression. Our goal is to conduct 
performance reviews for all U.S. full-time salaried employees.
Leadership programs:  Recognizing 
and developing promising leaders is 
essential to the future of our business. 
We offer three management training resources — EXCEED, EXCEL DRIVE and 
LINK — geared toward officers, directors 
and managers, that help leaders across the company learn key competencies. Connecting with team 
members 
Listening to our team members is 
essential to understanding their needs 
and creating a safe workplace. Through 
annual surveys, we encourage honest feedback on compensation, benefits 
and professional relationships in 
each operating company. In FY15, we surveyed a total of 228,609 U.S. team 
members, resulting in an engagement 
rate of approximately 89 percent. Team members around the world also 
connect with each other and with 
FedEx leaders through the Purple Hub, an internal online platform and 
communication network.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
93T eam members use skills to deliver it forward
Global Leadership Corps 
Outstanding leadership transcends 
geographical boundaries. In FY15, we 
proudly continued our Global Leadership 
Corp (GLC) program, which provides small groups of team members with the 
opportunity to work abroad alongside 
local NGOs and social enterprises for one month.
Team members share their professional 
expertise with a business or nonprofit 
in an emerging market, solving unique 
challenges, developing leadership skills and bringing FedEx values to life. In 
FY15, we placed 23 team members with 
five organizations in two cities in India.
Jaipur, India: A six-person GLC team 
worked with the Jaipur Rugs Foundation 
(JRF), which empowers weavers in 
local villages through employment and educational opportunities. To date, JRF 
has helped more than 40,000 weavers, 
mostly women living in remote villages, to generate income. While at JRF’s 
headquarters, our team helped the 
nonprofit foundation to improve its global e-commerce enterprise, including 
warehouse fulfillment and logistic 
solutions to support U.S. sales growth.
Chennai, India: The Institute for 
Transport and Development Policy in 
Chennai works with India’s crowded 
and congested cities on transportation solutions that cut greenhouse gas 
emissions, reduce poverty and improve 
the quality of urban life. The GLC team of three helped the Institute develop its 
road safety program, No Lives Wasted, 
and improve methods for gathering accident-related statistics.“What I was able to learn in one month 
will forever change 
my opinions and will prove invaluable to 
not only myself, but 
my team members and FedEx as a 
whole.
Jacob T raas
Manager, GIS Program Management
FedEx Ground
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
94Enhancing  
Quality of Life 
As a people-centered business, the 
success of our company is directly 
linked to the well-being and resilience 
of our team members. Knowing this, we provide wide-ranging benefits across 
all operating companies to support our 
team members’ long-term health, work-life balance and financial security.
Health and well-being
Investing in the health and well-being of our employees helps them to perform 
their best at work. We continue to 
offer health programs and competitive health benefits for eligible full-time and 
part-time employees. We cover most 
healthcare costs for our U.S. employees, including medical, dental and vision 
coverage.  
This year, we opened two new health 
centers in our hometown of Memphis 
and continued targeted health initiatives through our Healthways Well-Being 
Program. These include Well-Being 
Coaching, Innergy Healthier Weight Program and the QuitNet Tobacco 
Cessation Program, which provide team 
members with one-on-one coaching and practical tools to make smart choices 
about their health. Work-life balance
Delivering on our Purple Promise
requires our team members’ best
performance day in and day out. That
is why we place high importance onemotional and mental well-being and do
all that we can to ensure a healthy work-
life balance through our FedEx Work-LifeBalance Program. Team members can
access online resources or connect live 
with a specialist that helps them manage difficult topics such as adoption
assistance, childcare and parenting.Future planning
We offer pension and 401(k) retirement 
plans to eligible team members in the 
United States. Together, 87 percent of 
our U.S.-based employees participate in these plans. In FY15, we continued to 
encourage participation through targeted 
campaigns and education programs. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
95Connecting 
through Diversity
Female pilots and truck drivers. 
Managers who are veterans. Minority 
leaders. At FedEx, we place tremendous 
importance on growing the diversity of our workforce. As a global company, we 
see exceptional business and community 
value in the diversity of perspectives and experiences that our team members 
bring to work every day.
It takes commitment and organization 
to attract and retain a diverse workforce 
that reflects our increasingly global and varied customer base. To ensure we 
maintain progress, the FedEx Enterprise 
Diversity and Inclusion Alliance team meets quarterly to oversee companywide 
initiatives. Each operating company also 
has a Diversity and Inclusion Team to implement diversity-focused recruitment 
and retention policies, multicultural 
programs and workplace inclusion initiatives. Collaborations are critical 
to these efforts and include minority 
and women-focused employment organizations, universities, veterans’ 
organizations and community groups.We are ever mindful that diversity in 
business is about recognizing and nurturing 
talent in all ethnicities and backgrounds. It 
means creating the best opportunities for talented people to succeed and giving back 
to our communities so that others will have 
a chance to fulfill their dreams. 
Shannon Brown Senior VP and Chief HR/Diversity Officer, FedEx Express 
“
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
96Awareness training
Achieving our standard for a diverse 
and inclusive workplace requires all our 
team members to be on board. Given the 
many countries and cultures we operate in, communications are key. Employees 
can access educational diversity 
material online, and many new hires and management personnel at FedEx 
receive diversity and inclusion 
awareness training. 
Our diversity and 
inclusion mission statement 
Our diverse workforce, 
supplier base and culture enable FedEx to better serve our customers and compete more effectively in the global marketplace.We value the diverse life experiences and perspectives of all team members. 
Our commitment to 
diversity is further enriched by an inclusive culture that leverages those unique experiences and perspectives to drive team member engagement, innovation and business growth.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
97Hispanic Business Magazine’s “Best 
Companies for Diversity Practices” 
 
Black Enterprise Magazine’s “40 Best 
Companies for Diversity” 
Dress for Success International 
“Something to Share Award” Diverse MBA Magazine’s “Top 50 Companies for Diverse Managers” 
 
National Council of LaRaza’s “Corporate 
Champions Award” 
Washburne Award for Innovation in 
Diversity 2014 (France)Caucasian
Black/African 
American
Hispanic/Latin
Asian
Other
American Indian/Alaskan 
Native52%
28%
14%
3%
2%
1%FY15 U.S.
Workforce
Diversity
Awards and recognition
Our diverse workforce is a point of pride 
and has won widespread recognition. 
This year, we received the following 
awards and acknowledgements for our commitment to diversity:
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
98Honoring and supporting 
veterans
The Veterans Representative Initiative, 
led by FedEx Ground, connects 
veterans — at FedEx and in the greater 
community — with the people and resources they need in order to thrive. 
The initiative aims to:• Provide one-on-one support and 
communication with a local FedEx 
Veterans Representative 
• Assist veterans in their private sector job searches, ideally within a FedEx 
operating company 
• Work with local organizations to 
address issues that disproportionately affect veterans, such as homelessness 
• Recognize and celebrate military 
service through companywide events 
and communications. FedEx has given me the opportunity 
to lead and find 
ways of making 
sure our veterans 
feel comfortable and understood. The Veterans 
Representative 
Initiative allows me 
— and my fellow 
veterans — to do the right thing by serving 
my country.
Danny Murdock
Senior Manager, SCAL District “Women in the workplace
FedEx is committed to the development of all leaders, both male and female. 
As a company in a historically male-
dominated industry, we strive to advance women’s career development wherever 
we can. This support includes promoting 
qualified women into managerial and leadership roles, providing ample 
networking and mentoring opportunities 
and offering programs that support women’s professional advancement. 
This year, we continued to enhance 
leadership opportunities for women across operating companies. In total, 
there were 4,929 women in managerial 
roles across FedEx in FY15 — 22 percent of all managers globally and an 8 percent 
increase from FY14.
 FedEx Ground continued to roll out 
its three-step program to create 
a sustainable pipeline of female leadership. This included a Women’s 
Leadership Symposium, led by 
FedEx Ground University and Human Resources, a three-day Women in 
Leadership Institute and our signature 
program Education and Development through Group Experiences (EDGE). 
EDGE groups meet monthly and aim 
to build meaningful connections and leadership development through 
dialogue, coaching and in-person events.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
99T wo generations, 
one FedEx
Becky Atkeison, Director of Enterprise 
HR Initiatives and Services at FedEx 
Services, is a FedEx team member of 
10 years. Michelle Quina, HR Analyst, is a recent graduate of Rhodes College, 
and joined FedEx in 2014. Despite the 
years of experience between Becky and Michelle, their views on working at FedEx 
are strikingly similar. Here’s what they 
said when we sat down with them at our Memphis headquarters: 
Based on your experience, how would 
you describe the way FedEx is thinking 
about the future of talent?
 Becky Atkeison (BA): 
We’re really excited about the future 
of talent at FedEx. One of the great hallmarks of this company is developing 
team members for long-term careers 
here. There’s a tremendous opportunity to keep up that momentum and embrace 
new talent for their unique ways of 
problem-solving. Michelle Quina (MQ): 
As one of the youngest people on our 
team, I definitely think about certain things differently, but we’re a company 
that embraces and supports that different 
point of view. As soon as I joined, people took notice of my strengths and worked 
collaboratively to make sure I was 
learning while still having the chance to voice my perspective. 
Y ou’re both at different points in your 
career. What is it like working alongside 
people from different generations?
BA: I think working with people of 
different ages provides a great, fresh 
perspective on all of our projects. For example, we’ve really grown from 
having Michelle on our team. Coming 
from school, she just has a different way of looking at things, and we benefit 
tremendously from that. I, on the other 
hand, wasn’t a millennial coming into FedEx, but my previous experience 
allows me to bring more than ten years 
of experience to the table. 
MQ: When I started, I was one of two 
people in their 20’s on our team. For most of my team members, I’m the same 
age as their kids! It was definitely an 
adjustment at first, but managers across the department take part in mentoring 
younger staff, which really builds morale 
across our team. It’s also inspiring to work in a department of women who 
are older than me, and see how they 
have developed their careers at FedEx so successfully.T ell us about how FedEx has supported 
your professional development. 
MQ: Everyone has been so great since 
I started. The team has really taken 
the time to make sure I understand everything and learn how to play up my 
strengths. I’ve learned so much from all 
of them.
BA: And Michelle’s taken so much 
initiative! Whenever there’s something new to be learned, Michelle has stepped 
up to the plate. 
What advice would you give to someone 
just starting their career at FedEx?
MQ: Take initiative and don’t be afraid 
to ask questions. The most rewarding 
thing I’ve done has been taking chances outside of my comfort zone. There are so 
many intelligent people here who have 
done so much and want to see you succeed.
BA: Take advantage of every opportunity. 
There are so many tools available to 
help you shine personally and make a 
difference for the company. If you want to take initiative and make a difference, 
FedEx is a great place to do that.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
100Women at FedEx (global data)
Women in 
management roles
Total number of 
female employees FY13
4,638
78,731FY15
88,776FY14
4,567
80,3844,929FY15 Global Team Member Makeup
Organization T otal Female Male
Employees 323,035 88,776 234,259
Management employees 22,270 4,929 17 ,341
Non-management employees 300,765 83,847 216,918
Other service providers117 ,576 N/A N/A
Full-time employees (U.S. workforce only) 149,000 39,510 109,490
Part-time employees (U.S. workforce only) 106,435 31,713 74,722
(1) Includes businesses contracting with FedEx but not the actual number of personnel employed by those businesses.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
101Connecting T eam Members  
and Communities
Our team members connect FedEx to communities 
across the globe. Across our close to 6,000 facilities, many team members volunteer time and expertise for causes they are passionate about. These commitments deepen our connection to communities. This volunteering culture and commitment is important to our company, and we constantly explore creative opportunities to use our business expertise and team member talent to  better support our communities.Community Connections 
People
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
102Creating 
Employment Pathways
As part of our Purple Promise, we are 
committed to using our global reach 
to provide essential resources to 
underserved communities. 
Unemployment blights lives, especially 
those of young people, 24 percent of whom are jobless in the U.S. Through 
alliances that provide skills training, job-
placement assistance and educational programs, we help bring new 
opportunity to individuals and 
local economies. 
While half of all people from high-
income families have a bachelor’s degree by age 25, just one in 10 individuals from low-income families do. We believe that 
addressing entrenched socioeconomic 
and racial inequalities in education is important for the future success of our 
communities and businesses.Around the world, 5.5 million 16–24-year-
olds are out of school, not working and facing systemic barriers to jobs 
and education. FedEx is working with 
the 100,000 Opportunities Initiative to help tackle this challenge by launching 
the careers of young Americans. This 
coalition of companies and community organizations has the collective goal of 
engaging more than 100,000 youth in 
apprenticeships, internships and part-time and full-time jobs.
 
FedEx helped to launch the program as an employer participant and sponsor 
of the “Opportunity Fair & Forum” 
in Chicago in August 2015. The day-long event brought community-based 
organizations and local employers 
together to provide resources and job opportunities to some 3,000 local youth 
in attendance.Here are just a few of the many 
programs and activities we supported in 
FY15 to close the achievement gap:
 
Teach For America:  sponsor the 
Rising Leaders Fellowship program, 
which empowers students at top colleges 
to lead educational reform 
Hispanic Scholarship Fund (HSF): 
support college preparation workshops and help fund four-year scholarships
United Negro College Fund 
(UNCF):  connect diverse students with 
leadership skills and scholarships
 
American Indian College Fund:  
support scholarships to aid students attending accredited tribal colleges or 
universities 
Asian Pacific Islander Scholarship 
Fund:  helped establish a four-year 
scholarship to address high college drop-
out ratesOpportunities
Initiative100,000Community Connections 
People
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
103What connects
cities?15,822  
500team members to 
community impacts in more than
In FY15, FedEx continued our nearly 
40-year tradition of working with the 
United Way to support neighbors in need 
around the world. For the past 10 years, team members have volunteered for local projects during FedEx Cares Week, 
our yearly kick-off to the United Way 
campaign. During FY15, 15,822 team members volunteered 69,065 hours in 
more than 500 cities. Community Connections 
People
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
104Connecting to our global community
through FedEx Cares Week 
In Memphis, team members supported 
748 homeless individuals at Project 
Homeless Connect, providing guidance 
on medical care, legal issues, housing and more.
In Brazil, Colombia, Guatemala and 
Panama, 381 team members donated 
more than 2,600 volunteer hours to help 
build transitional houses for families living in slum-like conditions.More than 124 team members across the UAE, Bahrain and Kuwait contributed 
more than 680 hours of volunteer work 
visiting senior citizens and engaging special needs children.Team members in Spain organized a 
nationwide food collection for various 
food banks and collected 3,740 pounds 
of nonperishable goods in 14 cities for distribution to people in need.In Italy, more than 200 team members across more than 15 locations organized 
activities including food collection, 
preparing food packs for people in need and cleaning public park areas.
In Malaysia, 96 team members contributed 768 volunteer hours 
supporting the Food Aid Foundation by 
delivering meals to 320 families in need. In Japan, more than 200 team members worked with Second Harvest Japan, 
an NGO that operates a food bank, to 
distribute food to people in need.More than 1,100 team members across 25 cities in India contributed more than 
3,200 hours producing talent shows 
at local orphanages, visiting children in hospitals and participating in blood 
donation drives.Community Connections 
People
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
105Keeping Roads 
and People Safe
Traffic-related accidents account for more 
than one million deaths globally per year 
and are the leading cause of death for 
young people. With more than 100,000 team members making deliveries every 
day, the safety of pedestrians, bicyclists 
and drivers is paramount. Internally, FedEx invests in driver training and 
awareness programs to ensure that team 
members place safety first. Externally, we work closely with organizations 
dedicated to improving road and 
pedestrian safety. 
Throughout UN Global 
Road Safety Week in May 2015, FedEx sponsored road safety awareness events in
U.S. cities52
and 18 countries  Community Connections 
People
Global Alliance of NGOs for Road Safety
In FY15, we launched our first 
collaboration with the Global Alliance 
of NGOs for Road Safety, a forum of 
more than 140 NGOs from more than 90 countries sharing best practices and 
collectively advocating for road safety. 
FedEx sponsored their biannual summit in Morocco and led a workshop for 30 
Alliance NGOs on collaborations with 
corporations.  This Alliance aims to enhance worldwide collaboration around 
road safety policies by offering training 
programs for members, encouraging members to lead projects and campaigns 
and working with local communities and 
government to adopt best practices.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
106Safe Kids Worldwide
In FY15, FedEx and Safe Kids Worldwide 
celebrated 15 years of working together 
to improve child pedestrian safety 
around the world. Since the beginning of this relationship, FedEx and Safe 
Kids have reached more than 13 million 
children in 10 countries, providing lifesaving safety training, education 
programs and safety upgrades to school 
zones. More than 16,000 team members have volunteered with Safe Kids during 
this time. FY15 Safe Kids highlights 
• Launched our first Africa-based FedEx 
and Safe Kids program, Childsafe, in 
Cape Town, South Africa. The program 
will be implemented in five schools across Cape Town, educating 5,000 
students and making continued 
safety improvements
• Held the first Global Safe Roads Safe Kids Summit in Washington, 
D.C., attended by U.S. Secretary of 
Transportation Anthony Foxx 
• Organized the Safe Kids International Walk to School Day event in Bangkok, 
Thailand, with the participation of more 
than 300 primary and secondary school students, teachers and road 
safety advocates 
 
• Held the “Safe Kids Lives” event in collaboration with Safe Kids Thailand 
and road safety agencies in Thailand 
and promoted safety messages on social media through the use of 
authentic hashtag, #safie
• Received the Innovation Award from 
the U.S. Children’s National Medical Center, acknowledging our programs 
with Safe Kids Worldwide; Dr. Kurt 
Newman, President and CEO of Children’s National Medical Center 
recognized FedEx for our service to 
the community.Community Connections 
People
FY15 Safe Kids Outcomes 
Schools reached 2,893
Students reached 1,298,511
Volunteers 2,080
Safe Kids Walk This Way event participants 1,487 ,064
Number of countries 9
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
107Deliver It Forward
To serve our business, FedEx has developed 
unparalleled logistics expertise. This makes us uniquely well suited to respond to humanitarian emergencies anywhere in the world. From drivers and pilots to operations teams, we can – and do – mobilize our global workforce to support communities and economies when disaster strikes. 
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
108What does a doctor 
in Nepal have in common with a 
logistics expert in 
Memphis?
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
109A lot of people 
overseas wanted 
to help but only a 
few were able to deliver. The impact 
made by Direct 
Relief and FedEx was phenomenal. 
They brought critical 
supplies right to  our doorstep. “
Dr. Bibek BanksotaDirector of the Hospital and 
Rehabilitation Centre for Disabled 
ChildrenDr. Bibek Banksota, an orthopedic 
surgeon in Kathmandu, Nepal, describes how medical supplies flown in by FedEx helped him and his colleagues serve more than 45,000 earthquake survivors, many with life-threatening injuries. 
“I was on a mountain road when the 
earth began to shake. It looked as if 
bombs were going off in front of me. I 
was able to reach Kathmandu, and we worked at the hospital from early in the 
morning to late at night. We experienced 
aftershocks, up to 6.5, during surgeries and had to leave the building multiple 
times. We continued doing amputations 
in tents in the parking lot. 
“I remember operating on a little girl 
who lost her mother in the earthquake on their way home from a wedding. We 
treated severe wounds on her legs, and 
she is doing well now.
“ A lot of people overseas wanted to help 
but only a few were able to deliver. The impact made by Direct Relief and FedEx 
was phenomenal. They brought critical 
supplies right to our doorstep — IV fluids for surgeries, medications for children, 
wheelchairs for amputees. With these 
supplies, we served tens of thousands of people in Kathmandu and in remote 
medical and surgical camps, all of whom 
were in dire straits. ”
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
110Together we delivered 
more than six million 
doses of medicine 
as well as hospital tents, wheelchairs 
and birthing centers. 
It ended up being one of the most 
substantial deliveries 
in Direct Relief’s 67-year history.“
Thomas TighePresident and CEO, Direct ReliefSince Thomas Tighe became 
President and CEO of Direct Relief in 2000, the nonprofit humanitarian organization has delivered more than $3.8 billion in medical aid to people in need around the world. 
“Emergencies are many things…
including a logistical nightmare. The 
challenge of rapid mobilization is a huge 
barrier to getting survivors the help they need. Working with FedEx has changed 
the entire dynamic for us, and Nepal is a 
perfect example. 
“ After the earthquake, FedEx took 
extraordinary steps to clear flights to get our medical supplies into Kathmandu. 
The runways were damaged, and 
nobody seemed to be getting in. I was there when the aid arrived, and someone 
from the World Health Organization came over and asked how we pulled it off. I 
told them FedEx. 
“Together we delivered more than six 
million doses of medicine as well as 
hospital tents, wheelchairs and birthing 
centers. It ended up being one of the most substantial deliveries of medical 
relief in Direct Relief’s 67-year history. 
This is our job as a humanitarian nonprofit. But FedEx chooses to do this 
— at no cost to Direct Relief or our end 
beneficiaries — and does it faster and better than any other. ”
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
111“Disaster relief has always been a focus 
for FedEx. It’s part of our DNA. We 
understand how to move things better 
than anyone and are able to get in and out of communities in need when others 
can’t. 
“We rely heavily on collaborations with 
expert organizations around the world. 
Having relationships already in place means that when emergencies strike, 
we know who to call, where supplies are 
located and how to work together.
“When we delivered aid to Nepal, 
we were on calls twice a day with air operations, load masters, senior 
executives, nonprofits and other 
global team members to update our plans. The situation changed hour by 
hour. Our disaster relief team quickly 
created a plan with Direct Relief, Water Missions International and Heart to 
Heart International that involved moving 
medicines, food, shelter and water-purification equipment from three 
different U.S. locations into Memphis. 
There, we restaged the supplies to load 
When emergencies 
strike, we know 
who to call, where supplies are located and how to work 
together.“
Jenny Robertson
Global Director of Citizenship and 
Reputation Management, FedEx ServicesWhen a disaster strikes, Jenny 
Robertson, FedEx Director of Citizenship and Reputation Management, is immediately on the phone guiding teams inside and outside FedEx to direct critical supplies where they are needed most.
onto our chartered aircraft bound for 
Dubai and ultimately Kathmandu. It 
involved detailed coordination among all 
of the teams, which was made possible by our common goal of helping as 
many people as possible, as quickly as 
possible.
“ As we finalized the mission, I thanked 
everyone for their around-the-clock collaboration. A member of our 
operations team responded simply, 
‘Lives are at stake. This is what we do.’ That said it all. ”
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
112It’s like sending an 
astronaut to the 
moon. Unforeseen 
issues come up and you have to address 
each along the way 
to get your astronaut 
there and back.“
Glenn Carpenter
Manager, Global Freight Movement, 
FedEx Express“I tell people it’s like sending an astronaut to the moon. Unforeseen 
issues come up and you have to address each along the way to get your astronaut 
there and back. 
“For the Nepal relief effort, we had 
to determine how much aid we were 
moving, where it was coming from and how it would get to Kathmandu. We 
don’t usually fly there, so FedEx Charters 
had to find a plane that was sized correctly and could be rerouted towards 
the relief effort. We scheduled trucks to 
pick up supplies across the country and bring them to Memphis. We packed those 
on our plane and flew from Memphis to 
Dubai to Delhi to Kathmandu. All within 24 hours.
“Because there was cracking on the 
Kathmandu runway, we had to reduce 
our payload to get clearance to land, so 
we decided to make multiple trips from Dubai to Nepal. We also had to ensure 
we took enough fuel with us to get back 
from Kathmandu safely. 
“It was like a giant chess game 
happening in real time with all hands on deck. Thankfully, we have excellent team 
members who are all experts at what 
they do. ” As a Global Freight Movement 
Manager at FedEx Express, Glenn Carpenter is a logistics wizard who handles the flow of large shipments through our international  gateway cities.
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -
1132016 Global 
Citizenship Report
Deliver It Forward
csr.fedex.com
114
2016 FedEx Global Citizenship Report - ECONOMY - ENVIRONMENT - PEOPLE -