Multiplying
Opportunities
2019 Global Citizenship Report
Cape Town
33.9249° S, 18.4241° EMultiplying Opportunities 
Across the World
Spanning six continents and more than 220 countries and 
territories, our networks connect people and possibilities. 
We enable opportunities by drawing on our vast network 
of more than 5,000 hubs and facilities to deliver more 
than 15 million shipments each day. 
We aim to add value to society by multiplying growth for our 
customers and our business, responsibly and resourcefully. 
We strive to:
• Multiply good for our community
• Multiply potential for our people
• Multiply efficiencies for our environment
Hoofddorp, the NetherlandsSantiago, Chile
Washington, D.C., United States Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 2Contents
Our Company 4
CSR Overview 14
Our People 26
Environment 39
Data Appendix 53
About This Report
Our 11th annual Global Citizenship Report covers FedEx 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategies, goals, 
programs and progress. Unless otherwise noted, data 
covers each of our operating companies and all geographies 
in our 2018 fiscal year (FY18), which ended May 31, 2018.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option,  
and contains disclosures from the GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Standards, which are listed in this index .
Aircraft fleet modernization, FedEx® Fuel Sense operational 
improvements, technology innovations, alternative fuels  
and electric vehicles are just some of the ways we are 
reducing emissions from our aircraft and vehicle fleets. 
Thanks to these collective efforts, we decreased  
CO2 emissions intensity (on a revenue basis) by about  
37 percent from FY09 through FY18, a period when  
our revenue grew by 84.5 percent.
Dubai
25.2048° N, 55.2708° EData Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 3 
Hong Kong
22.3964° N, 114.1095° EOUR COMPANY
Multiplying Growth
FedEx Corporation (FedEx) delivers a diverse portfolio 
of transportation, e-commerce and business solutions 
that create opportunities for customers, businesses and 
communities. We deliver products and services that enable 
us to drive growth and lift economies across the globe. 
Our operating companies form the center of this network. 
They compete collectively, operate independently and 
are managed collaboratively under the respected FedEx 
brand. Our operating companies are also united by 
our longstanding Purple Promise: to make every FedEx 
experience outstanding. It guides everything we do. 
For more about our operating companies, visit About FedEx.
Our global retail service network has expanded in Asia, 
where FedEx Express and 7-Eleven have teamed up  
to offer even more 24/7 shipping options, including 
package self-collection at more than 5,000 7-Eleven 
stores across Hong Kong and Taiwan. Additionally, 
FedEx Self-Service Lockers at 70 Hong Kong locations 
provide more customer choice in package pickup.Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 4To connect is a basic human impulse. The more 
connections we make — at home, at work,  
in our communities — the better our lives  
become. The networks we create with others 
broaden our thinking.
Similarly, with our mission to connect people  
and possibilities, FedEx has created vast global 
networks that power the world’s economy. 
Everywhere FedEx operates, we put our size, 
scale, and connections to use for good — 
multiplying positive outcomes for people, 
businesses, and the environment. Essentially,  
the FedEx “multiplier effect” creates more  
value for society at large. 
Multiplying economic growth
We stimulate global economic growth in  
several ways.
We empower entrepreneurship. Each year, 
FedEx awards small-business grants through  
a small business contest. The 2018 grand prize 
winner, Rumi Spice, partners with more than  
300 farmers and nearly 2,000 women harvesters 
in rural Afghanistan to source sustainably farmed 
saffron. The company was founded by two  
former U.S. Army officers who wanted to  
catalyze rural economic development in the 
country and empower women through direct 
wages. FedEx services help these entrepreneurs  
reach markets far and wide. 
We generate jobs. Besides the more than 
450,000 team members around the world,  
we also spur job growth in our communities.  
For example, FedEx Ground, FedEx Express, 
FedEx Freight, and FedEx Custom Critical rely  
on independent businesses for certain types of 
pickup-and-delivery, linehaul transportation, and 
other services. Our contracts with them support 
small businesses and local economies, employing tens of thousands of people worldwide.  
During FY18, we procured $9.6 billion in goods  
and services from diverse and small-business 
suppliers in the U.S. alone. Of that amount,  
9 percent was spent with women-owned 
businesses and 15 percent with minority-owned 
businesses, with the remaining 76 percent  
spent with other small business suppliers.
We foster e-commerce.  While the business-to-
business market is much larger, the business-to-
consumer e-commerce market is growing faster. 
We’ve expanded our retail networks to give  
our customers even more locations to pick up and 
ship packages, or have them held. Currently they  
can do that at 12,000 convenient, secure retail 
locations such as Walgreens and Walmart stores.  
As a result, 80 percent of the U.S. population  
is within five miles of a FedEx hold location.  
Our growing retail network also positions us  
to play a key role in reverse logistics by enabling 
our business customers to restore, refurbish,  
or reuse returned products. 
We advocate for global trade. We support 
ambitious trade agendas that provide opportunities 
for our customers, our team members, and FedEx. 
This includes supporting policies in the U.S. and 
overseas that strengthen the future of the world 
marketplace. We advocate for greater customs 
clearance efficiency around the globe, and we urge 
trade facilitation policies that reduce administrative 
costs. This especially helps small and medium-
sized companies, which are most disadvantaged 
by complicated and costly customs procedures.Chairman’s Letter
Putting our networks to work: How FedEx multiplies opportunities across the world
Frederick W. Smith
Chairman and CEO
“ Everywhere FedEx operates, we  
put our size, scale, and connections  
to use for good — multiplying positive 
outcomes for people, businesses,  
and the environment.”
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 5Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyMultiplying good for our  
communities and team members 
It’s important to our customers and to FedEx  
that we effect positive change in the world.  
We do that through a corporate social 
responsibility strategy that includes: 
• The FedEx Cares giving and volunteering 
platform
• “Safety Above All” focus throughout FedEx
• Career development and opportunity programs 
for team members
• Efficient, sustainable operations and services
In FY16, we committed to give $200 million  
to 200 communities by 2020. As of the end of 
FY18, we’re ahead of plan for the number of 
communities (now 252) and on track to meet our 
total contribution goal early. This past fiscal year, 
we gave $55.1 million in corporate charitable 
contributions, $8.98 million in team member United 
Way contributions, and 81,976 volunteer hours 
contributed by more than 13,000 team members.
As noted, we put safety first in the air, on the 
roads, and everywhere we operate. We source  
the most up-to-date safety technology for our 
transportation equipment, facilities, and yards.  
For example, we’re testing platooning in our 
highway trucks, which allows tractors with drivers 
to follow each other in a safe, controlled manner 
through vehicle-to-vehicle communication and 
safety features such as collision mitigation.  
At FedEx Ground, we’re piloting virtual reality 
training modules to improve safety techniques 
related to dock behavior and large-package lifting. 
Our FedEx Express Indianapolis hub now offers a 
slip-and-fall simulator to enable team members to 
experience real-life dangers in a safe environment. 
We set the highest standards for safety training 
throughout FedEx.While we work to provide the safest workplaces 
for our team members, we are also broadening 
their career and education opportunities. That’s 
part of our People-Service-Profit philosophy,  
the bedrock of FedEx since day one. In FY18,  
we provided our people more than 24,000 online 
courses and $11.4 million in tuition assistance. 
Here are a few more workforce development 
examples from FY18:
• As a global company, FedEx values the talent 
and perspectives of team members everywhere. 
A far-reaching cultural initiative is underway at 
FedEx Express which includes a cross-cultural, 
multinational network of team members 
empowered to support the continued integration 
of TNT and build an inclusive culture in all 
countries afterwards, based on FedEx values.
• At FedEx Office, a new Diversity and Inclusion 
website contains updated interview guides and 
orientation materials to reflect the company’s 
inclusive philosophy. 
• We committed $2.5 million to create the FedEx 
Purple Runway Aviation Scholarship program  
to educate aspiring pilots, aircraft maintenance 
technicians, and other aviation professionals. 
Purple Runway will help FedEx train our pilots  
of the future. 
• We partnered with the University of Memphis  
to provide FedEx Express team members in the 
Memphis, Indianapolis, Oakland, Los Angeles, 
and Newark facilities the chance to earn a 
tuition-free online degree.
• The FedEx Services Internship Program now 
has more than 50 percent minorities. This past 
fiscal year, the program received about 16,000 
applications (up 2,000 from last year) to fill 
170 summer intern positions. We typically  
hire around 70 percent of the selected interns  
for full-time employment.Not only do we motivate our team to excel,  
we also recognize them when they do.  
Company-wide, team members received  
almost 48,400 awards in FY18. More than  
50 of those were to team members who  
showed selfless courage responding to those  
in need, particularly in life-threatening situations. 
Multiplying efficiency  
and sustainability
At FedEx, we operate responsibly, efficiently,  
and sustainably. To these ends, we developed  
our “Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize” approach  
to FedEx aircraft, vehicles, facilities, and materials. 
The program focuses on improving productivity 
while creating new, more efficient solutions.
From FY09 through FY18, we’ve decreased CO 2 
emissions intensity (on a revenue basis) by about 
37 percent. Last fiscal year alone, we avoided 
2.7 million metric tons of CO 2e emissions through 
fuel- and energy-saving initiatives throughout our 
operations. That’s equivalent to the carbon kept 
out of the atmosphere by more than 3 million acres 
of U.S. forests in one year. We’re realizing aircraft-
efficiency benefits from fleet modernization and 
fuel conservation programs that saved more than 
200 million gallons of jet fuel and avoided almost 
2 million metric tons of CO 2e emissions in FY18. 
Last year we ordered an additional 12 Boeing 777 
Freighters and 12 Boeing 767 Freighters, which  
are much more fuel efficient than the aircraft  
they will replace. Chairman’s Letter (continued)
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 6Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Express is working to improve vehicle  
fuel efficiency by 50 percent by 2025 from a  
2005 baseline. As of FY18, the operating unit  
has achieved nearly 40 percent improvement. 
In November 2018, we announced we will 
expand our vehicle fleet by adding 1,000 Chanje 
V8100 electric vehicles (EVs). These will be 
operated for commercial and residential pickup-
and-delivery in California. The EVs can travel  
more than 150 miles when fully charged and 
will save 2,000 gallons of fuel while avoiding 
20 metric tons of emissions per vehicle each year.
We’ve also made great strides converting 
to sustainable materials. In FY18, almost 
100 percent of all paper bought by FedEx Office 
was third-party certified. As such, 88 percent 
of that was Forest Stewardship Council certified. 
More than half of FedEx-branded packaging  
was made from recycled content in FY18, with  
all FedEx packaging being recyclable. By continuing to connect more people and 
possibilities while giving back to our communities 
and our planet, FedEx will ensure that its multiplier 
effect benefits the world. This report gives a 
summary of what we accomplished in FY18  
and a preview of the great things yet to come  
for FedEx and the billions of people we serve. 
 
Frederick W. Smith 
Chairman and CEOChairman’s Letter (continued)
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 7Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Express Global Network
Liège
SingaporeAnchorage
Indianapolis
Fort Worth
MemphisOakland
MiamiNewarkParisStansted
Mexico CityCologne
Dubai
GuangzhouOsakaMississauga
Major Hub LocationsAir Routes
>17
Major Hubs 
>2,150
Facilities 678
Aircraft 
>650
Airports Served >85,000 
Motorized Vehicles Our more than 450,000 team members help us  
connect 220+ countries and territories and more than  
99 percent of the world’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 8Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Ground
>600 
Operating Facilities
68 
Ground and SmartPost Hubs
>65,000 
Motorized Vehicles FedEx Freight
~370 
Service Centers
70 
Hubs 
>25,000 
Motorized VehiclesFedEx Office
~2,000 
LocationsFedEx Ground, FedEx Freight  
and FedEx Office Networks
FedEx Office LocationsFedEx Freight HubsFedEx Ground Hubs
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 9Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyBusiness Performance
$65.5 b
revenue in FY18, up  
9 percent from FY17
$4.6 b
record net income,  
a 53 percent increase  
over FY1730%
increase in quarterly  
dividend for FY19
$4.2 b
committed to team members 
and hub modernization 
following the U.S. Tax Cuts 
and Jobs Act FedEx is committed to producing superior financial returns  
for shareowners by providing high value -added logistics, 
transportation and related business services. During FY18,  
total revenue increased by almost 9 percent to $65.5 billion. 
These financial results reflect our successful strategy of managing 
FedEx as a portfolio of business solutions, allowing us to respond  
to marketplace changes quickly and efficiently while providing 
outstanding service to our customers. 
As a result of this success, we climbed to No. 50 on the Fortune  
500 list of U.S. companies — a notable accomplishment as we  
also celebrated our 45th year in operation. 
Financial Highlights FY16 FY17 FY18
Revenue ($B) $50.4 $60.3 $65.5 
Operating Income ($M) $3,077 $5,037 $4,870
Operating Margin 6.1% 8.4% 7.4%
Net Income ($M) $1,820 $2,997 $4,572
Diluted EPS $6.51 $11.07 $16.79 
Capital Expenditures ($B) $4.8 $5.1 $5.7 
For more information, please see our 2018 Form 10-K .
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 10Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyBeyond Business Performance
Our belief that a connected world is a better world 
guides everything we do, and allows us to add 
value that multiplies far beyond our business. 
With networks that link more than 99 percent  
of the world’s GDP, we connect people with 
goods, services and ideas in ways that strengthen 
our business, while creating opportunities and 
positive impacts for society. Whether we are 
enabling global trade, helping small businesses 
expand to new markets or coaching the next 
generation of entrepreneurs, our products and 
services — and the talent of our more than 
450,000 team members — connect people  
and possibilities by:
• Empowering entrepreneurship 
• Supporting job growth 
• Supporting e-commerce in a circular economy
• Enabling global tradeEmpowering Entrepreneurship
Our roots as entrepreneurs grow deep at  
FedEx, beginning with the innovative idea and 
entrepreneurial spirit of our Founder and Chairman, 
Frederick W. Smith, who launched our own 
enterprise more than four decades ago. Of course, 
it takes more than a good idea and hard work  
to grow a successful business. That’s why we 
empower entrepreneurship through a variety of 
programs that provide tools, resources, training 
and partnerships to help small enterprises 
succeed. Many of these tools are accessible 
through fedex.com  and connect business owners 
with tools, tips and expertise for everything from 
fulfilling e-commerce orders and handling returns, 
to marketing a small business and expanding to 
international customers. For example, FedEx Know 
and Grow  offers resources and education events 
for current and potential customers interested in 
learning more about exporting, importing and 
international business growth. 
We also support global and local entrepreneurship 
through initiatives that foster economic 
empowerment by providing training, grants and 
other resources. For instance, the 800 Initiative, 
announced in FY18, includes a pledge of $1 million 
over four years to help minority businesses in 
Memphis. Targeting the roughly 800 African 
American-owned businesses in Memphis that  
are between start-up and full-scale operation,  
the collaborative initiative aims to help grow  
their annual revenue by $50 million through 
technical assistance, coaching, loans and grants.
For more about the ways we are supporting 
women, minority-owned small businesses and 
entrepreneurs around the world, see our 
FedEx Cares Global Entrepreneurship website.Small Business Grant Contest
The FedEx Small Business Grant Contest awarded more than  
$606,000 in grants and prizes to passionate entrepreneurs  
in ten countries during FY18. Many of the recent winners are 
enterprises with a socially responsible business purpose,  
such as Rumi Spice, the grand prize winner of the U.S. 2018 
Small Business Grant Contest. They partner with a network  
of 300+ farmers and support employment for approximately 
2,000 women during harvest season to source sustainably 
farmed saffron in rural Afghanistan. The company, which was 
founded by two former U.S. Army officers, hopes to catalyze 
rural economic development in the country and empower 
women through direct wages. $2.25 m
contributed to support 
global entrepreneurship 
programs in FY18 alone
$1m
additionally pledged over 
four years to help minority 
businesses in Memphis
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 11Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyBeyond Business Performance (continued)
Supporting Job Growth
Small and diverse businesses support job growth 
and global innovation. They are not only engines  
of their local economies, but can be powerful job 
creators as well, providing up to 80 percent of  
new job growth in some countries. Within our  
own operations, FedEx Express, FedEx Ground, 
FedEx Freight, and FedEx Custom Critical rely  
on independent businesses for certain pickup-and-
delivery, linehaul transportation and other services. 
These contracts support small businesses and 
local economies, employing tens of thousands  
of people worldwide. By giving entrepreneurs 
everywhere the tools they need to prosper 
alongside our own growth, FedEx helps smaller 
businesses improve lives, boost economies  
and build thriving communities.
For more about how we work with suppliers, 
see Our Global Supply Chain .Supporting E-Commerce  
and the Circular Economy
As e-commerce continues to grow around the 
world, we have expanded our retail convenience 
network through FedEx hold locations and 
collaborations with retailers such as Walgreens 
and Walmart in the U.S. and 7-Eleven in Asia.  
This growing network not only makes it easier  
for customers to pick up and ship packages, but 
also helps to prevent package theft, streamlines 
our “last-mile” delivery capabilities and improves 
environmental efficiency. In the U.S., 80 percent  
of citizens live within five miles of FedEx hold 
locations, such as grocery and drug stores, as  
well as FedEx Express and FedEx Office facilities.
In addition, we are committed to maximizing 
customer convenience and minimizing 
environmental impacts in reverse logistics.  
Our retail network enables customers to  
ship returns and allows businesses to restore,  
refurbish or reuse returned products. This not  
only contributes to the circular economy by 
keeping products at their highest value, but also 
helps to transform the returns process from a  
cost of doing business into a strategic advantage 
for our customers. In addition, our FedEx Supply 
Chain and FedEx Forward Depots divisions  
provide technology customers with diagnostics 
testing, repair, refurbishment and recycling 
services, helping to keep electronic waste  
out of landfills.80%
of U.S. citizens live within five 
miles of FedEx hold locations, 
such as grocery and drug stores, 
as well as FedEx Express and 
FedEx Office facilities
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 12Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyBeyond Business Performance (continued)
Enabling Global Trade
The human imperative to connect, travel and  
trade has propelled people forward since  
the beginning of time. Now, the power of 
transportation, technology and innovation is 
multiplying the positive effects of commerce  
and trade — and requiring new approaches.  
We are proud to be at the heart of enabling 
possibilities for progress, growth and 
advancement. By coupling our unparalleled 
transportation network with the world’s digital 
network, supporting lower trade barriers and 
facilitating more inclusive trade, we enable 
manufacturers, retailers, craftspeople, and 
consumers to overcome traditional trade 
limitations. In turn, this makes it easier for  
FedEx customers to access new markets, 
products and solutions.We advocate for ambitious trade agendas that 
contribute to opportunities for our customers and 
our company. This includes advocating for public 
policies in the U.S. and overseas that support the 
economic future of our company, our shareowners 
and our team members. In FY18, we advanced  
this commitment by creating a global government 
and regulatory affairs structure that aligns and 
consolidates our regional approach to regulatory 
and policy advocacy across key markets.
Our approach focuses on two primary strategies:
1.  Trade Advocacy — We practice direct trade 
advocacy in key markets, such as to promote 
greater customs efficiency. 
2.  Trade Agreements — We leverage trade 
institutions and multilateral agreements,  
such as the World Trade Organization’s Trade 
Facilitation Agreement (TFA), which can  
reduce administrative costs for small and 
medium-sized companies — the businesses 
most affected by complicated customs 
procedures around the world. 
FedEx Logistics (formerly FedEx Trade Networks) 
handles more than 7 million customs transactions 
annually for customers of all sizes and is a leading 
provider of North American customs brokerage.  
In addition, we offer services such as customs 
brokerage and trade facilitation through our 
specialty companies within FedEx Logistics.  
We simplify international shipping by helping 
customers manage imports and exports over 
ocean, air or ground, which is especially  
important as the international shipment of goods 
directly to consumers continues to increase. Awards and Recognition
FORTUNE No. 10 among World’s Most 
Admired Companies (2019) 
FORTUNE No. 15 among 100 Best Places  
to Work (2018) 
FORTUNE One of the “Best Workplaces  
for Millennials” (2018) 
FORBES World’s Most Valuable Brands 
(2018) 
FORBES No. 79 World’s Best Employers 
Reputation Institute Rep Trak 100 List of World’s Most 
Reputable Companies (2018) 
Corporate Responsibility 
MagazineNo. 63 on 100 Best Corporate 
Citizens (2018), up 19 places  
since 2017 
JUST Capital No. 85 on Just 100 List of America’s 
Best Corporate Citizens (2018) 
Women’s Business 
Enterprise National CouncilAmerica’s Top Corporations for 
Women’s Business Enterprises 
(2018) 
Points of Light The Civic 50 Listing of America’s 
Most Community-Minded 
Companies (2018) 
FORTUNE and Great Place 
to Work Institute No. 15 Best Workplace for 
Diversity (2018) 
Interbrand Best Global Brands (2017) 
Black Enterprise 50 Best Companies for Diversity 
(2017)
CECP — The CEO Force 
for Good Top 25 percent of companies  
in total giving and leadership  
in social investment. 
Solar Energy Industries 
Association No. 14 Top Corporate Solar Users 
(2018) in the United States7m
customs transactions 
are handled by FedEx 
Logistics annually for 
customers of all sizes
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 13Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySantiago
33.4489° S, 70.6693° WCSR OVERVIEW
Multiplying Good
We connect the world responsibly and resourcefully 
through a network spanning more than 220 countries 
and territories. By linking businesses and communities 
through a diverse portfolio of services and tools,  
we enable economic growth. By embedding  
our CSR strategy into our operations and culture,  
we simultaneously add value to society wherever  
we operate. Our CSR strategy focuses on Economy, 
People, and Environment.
We met our goal to invest in 200 communities by  
2020 — ahead of schedule — and 252 communities 
have benefited from our diverse charitable investments 
since 2016. That same year, we launched our alliance 
with the Vital Voices GROW Fellowship and provided 
training for women entrepreneurs who are driving 
positive change within their communities throughout 
Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East  
and North Africa, and sub-Saharan Africa.Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 14For us, CSR is at the heart of the connection  
we make across the world. 
CSR Strategy and Implementation
Key elements of our CSR strategy include 
environmental efficiency innovations, a sustainable 
supply chain, a diverse and inclusive workplace, 
and the robust giving and volunteering platform 
known as FedEx Cares. We embed CSR into  
our systems and our culture in various ways, 
including our values, which include commitments 
to responsibility, integrity, people, service,  
safety, loyalty and innovation.
Across our organization, we set enterprise-level 
strategies to deliver our global CSR goals and 
commitments. Though many FedEx CSR programs 
and policies are designed for, and implemented at, 
the operating company-level — with each reporting 
on a core set of metrics — our shared purpose 
unites and guides these efforts. We prioritize our 
material environmental and social issues, as well 
as the areas where we can use our most valuable 
assets — global transportation networks, logistics 
expertise and the talent of our team members  
— to reduce risks and add the greatest possible  
value to society. 
For more information about the policies that inform 
our CSR strategy, see our CSR Policy Statements . 
Please refer to this report’s Data Appendix for 
FY18 CSR performance results. Our CSR Focus Areas 
Economy
By connecting businesses and 
communities through a growing 
portfolio of services and tools, 
we enable economic growth and 
make it easier for customers to 
access new markets, thereby 
helping to raise standards of 
living. And, as one of the world’s 
most admired brands, we strive 
to serve as a role model in 
the communities we serve by 
providing economic opportunities 
to small businesses and people 
in need. 
More information is provided in 
this chapter and the Our Company  
chapter of this report.People
We engage and empower our 
450,000+ team members, 
providing them with safe, inclusive 
workplaces and continued career 
development opportunities that 
help them thrive, and enable 
them to help us make every 
FedEx experience outstanding. 
Each FedEx operating company 
provides programs and resources 
to best meet the needs of their 
team members, while maintaining 
a shared culture, an emphasis on 
Quality Driven Management and 
an enduring commitment to the 
Purple Promise.
For more information, see the 
Our People  chapter of this report.Environment
By using our global assets, 
expertise in efficiency and 
commitment to innovation, 
we work to minimize our 
environmental footprint, find 
innovative solutions and improve 
quality of life. Throughout 
the FedEx organization, our 
Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize 
approach permeates our 
sustainability efforts, with our 
Environmental Policy guiding the 
operating companies in managing 
environmental performance.
For more information, see the 
Environment  chapter of this report.Our CSR Approach
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 15Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyGlobal CSR Governance
Effective in March 2019, the Nominating & 
Governance Committee of the FedEx Board of 
Directors assists the Board in overseeing our CSR 
initiatives. At least annually, the committee reviews 
and discusses CSR and sustainability strategies 
and programs with senior leadership, including 
our Chief Sustainability Officer.
The FedEx Enterprise Sustainability Council  
(FESC) is responsible for setting and implementing 
our company-wide sustainability strategy and 
administering our CSR materiality assessments. 
Our Chief Sustainability Officer chairs the  
FESC and also oversees the company-wide 
implementation of our environmental management 
system and reviews performance annually.
Additionally, enterprise-wide Sustainability  
Impact Teams (SITs) for global vehicles, facilities, 
air operations, customer solutions, EarthSmart, 
data/reporting, and sourcing allow our operating 
companies to share synergies, ideas, and 
innovations. The SITs and operating companies’ 
senior sustainability leaders report to our  
Chief Sustainability Officer.Our global CSR governance also encompasses  
a variety of functions and departments dedicated 
to our people. FedEx executive officers have 
individual objectives that include (but are not 
limited to) the promotion of our commitment to 
diversity, tolerance and inclusion in the workplace 
and ensuring that successors exist for all 
management positions. Additionally, Human 
Resources (HR) departments in each FedEx 
operating company manage HR priorities, including 
team member career development, engagement, 
and health and wellness. Our Corporate HR 
department promotes consistency of policies 
across operating companies and manages 
executive development, team member benefits 
and diversity strategy.
In addition, each FedEx operating company  
sets workplace safety goals and implements  
the Safety Above All philosophy through policies  
and programs relevant to their specific operations.  
The FedEx Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council 
includes members across operating companies 
who coordinate company-wide D&I initiatives. 
FedEx Enterprise Sustainability  
Council (FESC)
Environmental &
Sustainability
Leadership
FedEx ExpressEnvironmental &
Sustainability
Leadership
FedEx GroundEnvironmental &
Sustainability
Leadership
FedEx FreightEnvironmental & 
Sustainability  
Leadership  
FedEx Office• Vehicles
• Facilities
• Air Operations
• Customers
• EarthSmart
• Data Reporting
• SourcingCorporate Sustainability
Stakeholder EngagementChief Sustainability Officer  
Chair — FESCSustainability 
Impact TeamsFor more information about our programs  
for career development, D&I and safety, see  
the Our People  chapter of this report. Please  
see our Investor Relations  website for more 
information about our corporate governance 
structure and practices.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 16Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyMaterial Issues
We completed our first CSR materiality 
assessment in 2014 and updated it in 2016  
with additional input from external stakeholders, 
including industry groups, customers, investors, 
rating agencies, sustainability experts, nonprofits, 
and government agencies. 
Engaging with stakeholders, and with our team 
members, enables us to identify the key issues 
that affect our business, manage associated risks 
and capitalize on potential opportunities. Their 
2016 feedback confirmed the most material issues 
remained consistent with our initial assessment.
As reported last year, we will complete another 
materiality analysis in early 2019. Phone interviews, 
roundtable meetings, and online surveys with 
internal and external stakeholders will help us to 
continue evolving our understanding of our material 
CSR focus areas, risks, goals, and approaches. 
The materiality assessment will also evaluate the 
relevance and alignment of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as well  
as other CSR frameworks to determine their 
potential roles in shaping our future CSR and 
business strategies. The results of the updated 
assessment will be discussed in next year’s report. 
Across our operations, we plan for the short and 
long-term to mitigate potential negative impacts on 
revenue, costs, reputation and business continuity. 
The FedEx Board of Directors and its committees 
oversee the company’s risk management activities, 
with management having day-to-day responsibility 
for assessing and managing risk exposure. 
For information about these responsibilities, please 
see our 2018 Proxy Statement . For more about 
how we address CSR risks and impacts, see the 
Environment  and Our People  chapters of this report.Highest-Ranked Material Issues
All of our top material issues are measured and managed across our owned and operated businesses.  
See the materiality matrix on page 8 in our 2014 report  for the full list of material issues.
Material Issue Our Approach
Governance Ethics, bribery and 
corruption• Global governance, ethics and compliance policies, programs  
and training activities
• Alert Line for reporting ethical concerns
• Corporate Integrity & Compliance department coordinates 
compliance activities to provide enterprise-wide consistency, share 
best practices and provide tools for training and implementation
Data security and privacy • Information technology security initiatives, including risk 
management and technology disaster recovery plans
• Online FedEx Trust Center, including privacy notices and information 
security awareness with resources to help customers protect their 
personal data and identify, report and mitigate fraud
• Creation of Global Privacy Office to address compliance with the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other legislative 
requirements, as well as use of Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs)  
for data privacy practices
Business preparedness, 
resiliency and disaster 
response• Contingency plans for events such as disasters or social unrest
• Participation in national and regional emergency management 
organizations that coordinate responses to disasters 
• Provide disaster relief aid through in-kind shipping
Environment Aircraft and surface 
vehicle fleet energy 
usage and associated 
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions• Reduce: Fuel efficiency and emission reduction targets and 
operational improvements 
• Replace: Aircraft and vehicle fleet modernization
• Revolutionize: Sustainable alternative fuel strategies 
• Responsible advocacy for regulatory and policy changes that 
support fuel efficiency and emission reduction standards
People Driver and workplace 
safety• Team member workplace safety training and awareness programs
• Driver safety programs, training and awareness campaigns
• Fleet and facility enhancements with state-of-the-art safety 
systems and equipment
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 17Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyStakeholder Engagement
Growing our business responsibly, resourcefully  
and in a forward-thinking manner not only drives  
the long-term success of our company, but also 
benefits millions of stakeholders by creating income 
and opportunities for customers, team members, 
communities, shareowners and suppliers.
Stakeholder Value Add FY16 FY17 FY18
Dividends paid to 
shareowners (millions) $277 $426 $535
Salaries and employee 
benefits (billions) $18.58 $21.54 $23.21
Diverse supplier spend 
(billions) $9.2 $9.1 $9.6
Community investment 
(millions)$57.29 $65.30 $64.12
Connecting with Our Stakeholders
Formal CSR materiality assessments inform and 
refine our approach, goals, targets and metrics 
on environmental, social and governance topics. 
We also seek wide-ranging input from our team 
members and external stakeholders through 
workshops, interviews and surveys. In addition, 
we recognize that FedEx customers around the 
world are increasingly interested in our CSR 
performance, and we meet with them, when 
appropriate, to discuss our CSR programs and 
progress. In 2018, we adopted a more streamlined 
approach to communicate about our environmental, 
social, and governance performance. This ensures 
customers have additional avenues to receive 
information in a timely and convenient way. $7. 3b
in revenue from  
customers requesting  
emissions data in FY18We provide detailed information on a wide variety 
of CSR topics to recognized external platforms and 
protocols, including the Climate Disclosure Project 
(CDP), EcoVadis, Responsible Business Alliance 
(RBA) and others. We also report on these issues 
in our own publicly available documents, such  
as the FedEx Annual Report , Proxy Statement  
and this Global Citizenship Report. This greater 
efficiency in reporting allows us to spend more 
time on transformative operational improvements  
that contribute to our progress on important  
CSR metrics. 
FedEx shareowners are also interested in our 
environmental, social and governance practices. 
We have an active shareowner engagement 
program in which we meet regularly with our 
largest shareowners to discuss our business 
strategy, operations, sustainability and social 
responsibility programs, and corporate governance, 
as well as other topics of interest to them.  
Our shareowner engagement efforts enable  
the company to effectively address issues that 
matter most to our stockholders and allow us to 
better understand their priorities, perspectives  
and concerns. 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 18Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyStakeholder Engagement (continued)
CSR Advocacy
To further progress toward our CSR goals,  
we support responsible advocacy such as 
initiatives that advance talent management 
innovations, fleet efficiency and alternative-fuel 
technology. For example, we continued working 
with U.S. government leadership on unique 
approaches for identifying, training and hiring 
“opportunity youth” — the 5 million young 
Americans outside the workforce. 
In addition, FedEx supports policies to advance 
alternative-fuel technologies for the commercial 
sector. From 2007 through 2018, we have 
successfully advocated for legislation and 
regulation, such as the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Phase 2 fuel efficiency 
and greenhouse gas standards, which would 
incentivize the production of clean technology 
vehicles such as hybrid-electric, all-electric, 
alternative fuel, fuel cell and other advanced 
technology vehicles needed by FedEx. 
Also in FY18, we continued engaging with U.S. 
regulators to allow larger 33-foot trailers in a twin 
configuration. This would increase freight capacity 
by 18 percent and reduce truck traffic by 1.3 billion 
miles per year. The resulting fuel and emissions 
savings for our linehaul and freight operations, 
as well as others, would be significant. 
To learn more, please view our 
Policy Perspectives Overview .Alliances for Industry Progress
FedEx works with various government and 
industry organizations to improve the transportation 
sector’s environmental, social and business 
performance, including:
Business and Governance
• American Trucking Associations
• European Express Association
• International Air Transport Association  
and Airlines for America
• International Civil Aviation Organization
• International Road Assessment Programme
• The Business Roundtable 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• U.S. Federal Aviation Administration
People
• American Industrial Hygiene Association
• American Society of Safety Engineers
• Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance
• Inner City Capital Connections 
• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council
Environment
• The Electrification Coalition
• Keystone Policy Center Energy Board
• Rocky Mountain Institute Business  
Renewables Center
• Securing America’s Future Energy
• Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council
• U.S. Department of Energy, National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration and National Clean 
Fleets Partnership 
• U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 
SmartWay® Program
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 19Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyCorporate Integrity and Compliance
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is  
the foundation of our corporate integrity and 
compliance program and sets a high standard  
for team member conduct worldwide. 
New hires are trained on its provisions, which 
cover, among other things, workplace health, 
safety and environment; human rights; money 
laundering prevention; equal opportunity and 
anti-harassment; conflicts of interest; improper 
payments and gifts; and entertainment. The code 
is being updated in 2019 to make sure it remains 
accessible and relevant to our global team members. 
Corporate Integrity and  
Compliance Department
Each FedEx operating company works within  
a unique set of regulatory environments and 
maintains compliance with regional and sector-
specific requirements. Globally, the FedEx 
Corporate Integrity and Compliance department 
serves as a central resource to further embed  
the FedEx commitment to integrity in everything 
we do. The department, led by our Global Chief 
Compliance and Governance Officer, provides  
best practices, tools and guidance, as well as 
communications and training. FedEx encourages 
employees to report any potential legal or ethical 
violation to management, Legal, HR or the 24-hour 
FedEx Alert Line. In FY18, we added translations 
to the Alert Line portal and rolled out translated 
Alert Line posters around the world. Other recent 
enhancements include a stronger focus on 
compliance analytics to identify trends and  
better manage risk. 
For more information about our compliance record, 
as well as compliance in the social and economic 
area, see the 2018 Proxy Statement .Anti-Corruption Policies
We are committed to complying with all  
anti-corruption laws and prohibit bribes  
of any type throughout our organization.  
Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy and related 
Anti-Corruption Compliance Procedures provide 
detailed guidance to team members. Training at 
the time of onboarding, and again within three 
years, is required for team members in relevant 
roles. This includes management in international 
operations, as well as team members and 
suppliers who interact with government officials 
on behalf of FedEx, such as customs and border 
personnel. Our third-party oversight program 
includes due diligence, annual certifications  
of compliance, training and other practices  
to mitigate risks. 
Ethics, Integrity and  
Anti-Corruption Training
Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, antitrust, 
conflicts of interest and other compliance training 
are all key components of our corporate integrity 
and compliance program. During FY18, training 
efforts focused on investigation and fraud 
reporting to ensure designated team members 
have the knowledge and resources to investigate 
potential fraud using standard rules of practice. 
Another key focus is ensuring our compliance 
program and expectations are embedded into  
a newly acquired company’s communications, 
training and systems. To this end, a two-year 
initiative that began as a way to establish a 
common culture following the TNT acquisition 
evolved in FY18 into a broad revitalization of our 
People-Service-Profit (PSP) culture, emphasizing 
the cultural values and behaviors expected in  
our business. 
For more about the culture initiative, see the 
Our People chapter. 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 20Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyCorporate Integrity and Compliance (continued)
Combating Human Trafficking
We share the zero-tolerance policies adopted by 
the U.S. and other governments to combat slavery 
or the trafficking of persons for any purpose. 
We prohibit trafficking-related activities and  
expect the same of our suppliers and contractors. 
In addition, FedEx Freight has joined Truckers 
Against Trafficking, an organization that trains 
drivers to identify potential signs of human 
trafficking. 
See the FedEx Policy Combating Trafficking  
in Persons for more about our commitment.
Data Security and Privacy
Protecting the privacy of our customers, vendors 
and team members is critical to maintaining  
their trust. We take precautions to safeguard all 
sensitive information and ensure a secure online 
environment, including customer transactions.  
In FY17 and FY18, we took the necessary steps  
to update our privacy practices and policy in 
response to the European Union (EU) GDPR.  
This included creating a Global Privacy Office that 
addresses not only EU legislation, but upcoming 
regulations in other regions as well. 
The FedEx Trust Center  website highlights  
our Global Privacy Policy , adopted in May 2018,  
along with information about how FedEx protects 
customer privacy and resources to help customers 
identify, report and mitigate risks. For more 
information, please see our 2018 Form 10-K .Business Preparedness,  
Resiliency and Disaster Response
As a leading global logistics company, we 
encounter challenging situations, ranging from 
natural disasters to social unrest, in the course  
of doing business. Preparing for these events  
is critical to sustaining our global operations  
and minimizing the impact on customers.  
We proactively establish contingency plans  
that focus on restoring service to customers  
with the least impact as possible, while ensuring 
team member safety — our top priority.
We have over 40 years of experience in proactively 
addressing situations, such as severe weather 
events, that can occur at any given time anywhere 
in the world. We are adept at implementing 
contingency plans at a moment’s notice to  
respond quickly, efficiently and on a global scale. 
This positions us to restore operations promptly 
following natural disasters, serve our customers  
as quickly as possible and ensure security for  
their shipments. 
Our operating companies have planning teams  
that apply sophisticated analytical models to 
assess scenarios that could potentially affect our 
operations and develop robust strategies to ensure 
network resilience. These tools incorporate a 
variety of factors, including but not limited to 
population, congestion and demand changes. 
We also have an in-house, 15-person meteorology 
division that utilizes state-of-the-art weather 
monitoring tools to manage risks associated  
with global weather patterns. To further support our internal process, we 
participate in State Emergency Operations  
Centers programs, as well as the FEMA-Northern 
Command Public-Private-Partnership Program, 
which brings private-sector companies like FedEx 
together with national, state, and local emergency 
management organizations to work collaboratively 
before, during and after disasters. Our active 
participation in these initiatives helps us gain the 
earliest possible safe re-entry to affected areas.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 21Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyOur Global Supply Chain
The continued growth of e-commerce and the 
need for even faster and more efficient supply 
chains shapes our global supplier relationship 
management practices. 
All of our suppliers are expected to uphold the 
principles in our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics  and aspire to meet our other CSR  
policy commitments. Of course, when we grow 
our business through acquisitions, we work  
to make sure these principles are embedded  
into those supply chains through clearly  
articulated expectations, awareness raising, 
contract language, and evaluations.
Managing Supply Chain Risk
Across our global business, we identify and 
manage critical supply chain risks through 
enterprise-wide policies and procedures, such as 
assessing and adjusting our supply chain to reduce 
our carbon footprint. Our suppliers work closely 
with us to mitigate risks, especially those inherent 
in extended supply chains. We mitigate the most 
significant risks by focusing on those suppliers 
critical to our business success. Our FedEx 
Services Supplier Relationship Management 
(SRM) team also leads efforts to improve 
sustainability in our supply chain through:
• Sustainability-related questionnaires, which  
are included in our requests for qualifications  
and proposals (RFx) in core categories.  
A database tracks adherence and supports  
a rigorous, consistent process. During FY18,  
we increased the number of total suppliers 
screened by 37 percent year over year.• Sustainability-related contract language,  
which addresses supplier performance  
in environmental, social, labor, and human  
rights areas, including child and forced labor.  
This is included in all new or amended supplier 
agreements. During FY18, we also updated  
our executive review tool to indicate whether 
sustainability language has been included  
in the supplier agreement.
• Regular supplier evaluations that drive  
desired practices and provide feedback. 
• Training, awareness raising and a focus  
on continuous improvement among SRM  
team members to institutionalize sustainable 
supply chain practices.
In FY18, we continued our involvement in the 
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC). 
We are a founding member of the organization  
and continue to leverage SPLC research to inform 
our programs. In FY18, we further refined our 
approach to include supplier category liaisons  
who work directly with our SRM team, providing 
information on emerging issues to help navigate 
sustainability, diversity, and business continuity 
opportunities and risks in the supply chain. 
Leveraging external platforms for a more 
sustainable supply chain extends to FedEx  
Express International, where sourcing aligns with 
ISO 20400 guidance for sustainable procurement.  
The program includes supplier risk screening to 
identify categories of goods and regions known 
to present inherent risks, along with training 
and guidelines for sustainable procurement. 
Future plans include providing buyers with a 
standardized set of RFx questions for sustainable 
procurement and information to support 
specialized purchases, such as electric vehicles.Our Diverse Suppliers
We look to enrich economies by investing in 
people and communities where we live and  
work. This includes proactively seeking diverse 
suppliers and strengthening our supply chain by 
sourcing from small, minority- and women-owned 
businesses. In our U.S. operations, we leverage 
alliances, industry associations, learning 
opportunities and other events to help companies 
build capabilities to develop their full potential.  
In FY18, we procured $9.6 billion in goods and 
services from diverse and small-business suppliers 
in the U.S. Of that $9.6 billion, 9 percent was 
spent with women-owned businesses and  
15 percent was spent with minority-owned 
businesses, with the remaining 76 percent spent 
with other small-business suppliers. For details, 
see the Data Appendix .
78%
of potential and current suppliers 
were screened with sustainability 
RFx questions during FY18 sourcing 
events, an increase of 5 percentage 
points over the previous year*
*For details, see the Data Appendix
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 22Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Cares: Community Giving
FedEx Cares, our community giving and volunteering platform,  
is one more way we help make a positive difference in the world. 
We deliver the connections that help create possibilities in 
communities globally by investing in strategies and programs 
that align with our values and best serve our customers. 
We provide monetary donations, in-kind shipping services 
and team member volunteering to deliver solutions that  
benefit communities around the world. 
For more information, visit the FedEx Cares website.
Our FedEx Cares Pillars
Global  
Entrepreneurship
FedEx is committed to 
giving women and minority 
entrepreneurs everywhere 
the tools they need 
to succeed.Delivering  
for Good
Lending our global network 
and our unparalleled logistics 
expertise to organizations 
with mission-critical needs, 
especially in times of 
disaster, and to help 
communities heal, learn  
and thrive.Sustainable 
Transportation
Scaling solutions and 
investing in new ideas to 
improve mobility, reduce 
congestion, and decrease 
pollution in communities 
around the world.Employment  
Pathways
Connecting young adults in 
underserved communities  
to skills and career training 
that lead to greater access 
to jobs and opportunity, 
especially in the fields of 
technology and logistics.Road  
Safety
Leveraging our safety 
expertise to reduce road 
crash fatalities by improving 
road conditions and 
educating drivers and 
pedestrians — especially 
child pedestrians — around 
the world.$3m
contributed to support communities in Texas,  
Florida and Puerto Rico in the aftermath of 
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria in FY18
 13
dedicated relief flights during  
the hurricane season in FY18
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 23Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Cares: Community Giving (continued)
Goal: Invest $200 million in 200 communities 
around the world by 2020 (FedEx Cares goal 
was set in 2016).
Progress: Met goal for number of communities 
benefited. On track to meet financial contribution 
goal ahead of schedule.
We are committed to actively supporting the 
communities we serve through the strategic 
investment of our people, resources, and network. 
We provide financial contributions, in-kind 
charitable shipping services and team member 
volunteering to help non-profit organizations 
achieve their goals and make a measurable impact. 
For instance, as we work to implement more 
creative ways to recruit top talent in an ever-
tightening labor market, we are leveraging our 
Employment Pathways programs to identify, 
coach, mentor, train, hire, and retain talent from 
non-traditional sources. Key to this is a three-way 
collaboration among non-profits, education 
institutions, and our company that reflects the 
FedEx commitment to supporting youth and  
lifting communities out of poverty. 
For more about the ways Employment Pathways  
is helping FedEx hire top talent, see the 
Our People  chapter.FY18 Community Giving
$47.78 m
cash grants
$5 5.14 m
total corporate charitable 
contributions
>500  
communities participating81,976
volunteer hours
$.42m
Corporate Marketing and  
Operating Company in-kind giving
 13,016
team member volunteers$6.94 m
charitable shipping
$8.98 m
team member United Way 
cash contributionsData Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 24CSR Goals and Progress
In FY18, we made continued progress toward our social and environmental goals,  
meeting our community investment goal ahead of schedule.
Goals Progress Additional information
Investment in Communities
Invest $200 million in 200 communities around 
the world by 2020$200m $157m
•  $157 million since 2016
•  Community goal met in FY18: 252 communities 
benefited since 2016• FedEx Cares goal was set in 2016
• Team members provided 81,976 volunteer  
hours in FY18
Aircraft Emissions
Reduce aircraft emissions intensity 30 percent 
from a 2005 baseline by 202030.0% 22.6%
•  22.6 percent reduction from a 2005 baseline
•  Original goal was met and we are now on a  
revised goalOur aircraft modernization and FedEx® 
Fuel Sense programs:
• Saved more than 204 million gallons of fuel 
• Avoided more than 1.97 million metric tons  
of CO 2e emissions in FY18
Vehicle Fuel Efficiency
Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency  
50 percent from a 2005 baseline by 202550.0% 39.6%
•  Improved fuel efficiency by 1.7 percentage points 
during FY18, contributing to a 39.6 percent 
improvement from a 2005 baselineOur efforts avoided 240,000 metric tons of CO 2e  
emissions in FY18 due to:
• Upgrading our vehicle fleet and implementing innovative 
technologies, including use of alternative fuels
• Improving operations through routing, automation 
and driver monitoring
LEED-Certified Facilities
Seek LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) certification on all new 
U.S. FedEx Express buildingsFedEx Express (U.S.)
•  5 new LEED-certified facilities in FY18 
•  19 LEED-certified facilities at the end of FY18,  
totaling 825,142 square meters• FedEx Express (International): 3 LEED-certified 
facilities 
•  FedEx Ground (U.S.): 6 LEED-certified facilities
•  FedEx Office (U.S.): 1 LEED-certified facility
Alternative Fuels
Obtain 30 percent of jet fuel from alternative  
fuels by 2030•  Red Rock Biofuels, which will supply low-carbon, 
renewable jet fuel to FedEx Express, broke ground  
on a biodiesel refinery near the end of FY18 
•  Estimated first delivery of commercially viable and 
available alternative jet fuels is anticipated in 2020
Renewable Energy
Expand on-site energy generation and continue 
to procure renewable energy for facilities• 3 new solar installations in FY18 
•  23 total on-site solar installations at end of FY18• 21 million kWh generated in FY18 
• 12,504 metric tons of CO 2e emissions avoided in FY18
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 25Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyWashington D.C.
38.9072° N, 77.0369° WOUR PEOPLE
Multiplying Potential
People are at the heart of our culture — whether  
it’s the service we deliver to our customers or each  
other. People are also at the heart of our management 
philosophy. Without the efforts of our 450,000+  
team members, there would be no FedEx. People-
Service-Profit, or PSP, is the corporate philosophy  
that helps us deliver on the Purple Promise.  
It is a concise and comprehensive statement of  
the principles that govern every FedEx activity. 
Through a variety of initiatives, we multiply potential  
for our people. We support higher education through 
tuition assistance and programs such as “Learning 
inspired by FedEx (LiFE),” which offers employees at 
select facilities the chance to earn tuition-free degrees 
online through the University of Memphis. We also 
provide employment pathways by removing the college 
degree requirement for some positions, hiring from 
specialized boot camps, and engaging non-traditional 
candidates including opportunity youth, veterans,  
and diverse candidates.Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 26Each element of PSP, our management philosophy, 
is essential to our success, and each upholds  the others.
Our focus on people produces outstanding service 
that meets the highest customer expectations. This, in turn, gives us a competitive edge so  we can win more business and become more profitable. And profitability is what funds our  future and allows us to reward our people. When we apply PSP to deliver on the Purple Promise,  we help to multiply opportunities for customers, businesses, communities and, of course, our  team members. PSP in Action
PSP reflects our shared commitment to excellence, earns the trust and loyalty of customers and makes FedEx a great place to work. It includes providing our team members with inspiring opportunities to realize their potential and thrive in a workplace that prioritizes inclusion, diversity and safety above all. United by a longstanding commitment to the PSP philosophy, each operating company provides programs and resources to best meet the needs of their team members, while emphasizing Quality Driven Management and an enduring commitment to the Purple Promise. 
With an extremely competitive labor market 
in many regions, especially the U.S., we are implementing even more creative ways  to attract top talent and make sure our team members have ample opportunities to build lasting, rewarding careers with us. Collectively,  our approach to recruiting, growing and retaining talented team members includes:
•
Innovative internships, training, and
learning options
•Alliances with people-focused organizationsto provide best-in-class benefits
•
Initiatives that further embed and celebratediversity and inclusion in our culture
•
Industry-leading practices in driver andworkplace safetyRecognizing Team Members
Our workplace culture celebrates extraordinary efforts. In FY18, 61 team members received  the annual Purple Promise Chairman’s Award for their exceptional dedication, collaboration, and innovation. An additional 53 team members earned the Humanitarian Award for displaying selfless courage and promoting human welfare — particularly in life-threatening situations —  above and beyond basic human responsibility. Company-wide, we recognized team members with 48,395 awards during the fiscal year. Our Approach
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 27Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySafety Above All 
Our longstanding Safety Above All philosophy, 
backed by strict policies, robust team member 
education, and safety recognition awards, along 
with continued investments in industry-leading 
technology, is designed to prevent accidents 
— because even one accident is one too many. 
Each day, hundreds of thousands of FedEx team 
members are on the move, and from our offices 
and hubs to roads and airways, our priority to 
ensure the safety of the people and communities 
we serve always comes first. This means 
incorporating safety principles into all aspects 
of our global network, including people, facilities, 
and technology. 
In our unique Safety Above All culture, we 
measure and manage operational safety on a daily 
basis, just as we manage every other business 
function for quality outcomes. This approach 
delivers strong performance in the two key safety 
metrics we use to track performance — injury  
rate and vehicle accident rate. In FY18, our overall 
lost time injury rate remained relatively unchanged, 
despite our operations in North America, which 
experienced an increase over FY17. We have 
investigated the root causes of this increase and 
are working to improve safety performance going 
forward through new training methods, additional 
implementation of industry-leading technology, 
and initiatives to make sure our Safety Above All 
approach is reflected in every action. Regular team member engagement about safety is 
also key to ongoing improvement. The FY18 FedEx 
Express safety culture survey — our first ever 
— explored team member perceptions of company 
safety with an objective of further improving 
performance. We hope to expand the survey 
across the entire FedEx enterprise in the future.
For more about our FY18 and year-over-year safety 
performance, see the Data Appendix .
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 28Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyVehicle Safety
Our quality-driven approach to safety extends  
to our global vehicle fleet of more than 180,000 
vehicles, including both on-road and non-road 
equipment at FedEx Express, FedEx Freight,  
and FedEx Ground. 
FedEx Express
Implementing the latest safety practices and 
innovations is key to continued safety performance 
in the face of our significant business growth. 
During FY18, FedEx Express incorporated several 
key road safety technologies, including:
GPS tracking  on all 30,000 FedEx Express 
pickup-and-delivery vehicles in the U.S.  
This allows a central facility to view where  
a driver had to park, the length of the walk  
to deliver a package, and what kinds of obstacles 
the driver encountered. This information can  
then be used to identify the safest places  
to park, minimize obstacles, and make sure  
drivers know the safest routes. It also provides  
an additional tool for accident investigations. Autonomous safety features  — We continue  
to incorporate the latest version of autonomous 
technologies such as forward collision and lane 
departure warnings, forward collision avoidance 
mitigation systems, and speed limiters, all of  
which augment safety for our already-safe drivers.
Video cameras  — FedEx Freight and FedEx 
Ground vehicles have used outward-facing 
cameras and telematics to implement a driver 
consultation program for onboard triggering 
events. Now, FedEx Express is installing cameras 
in all tractor-trailers and straight trucks to provide 
both a forward- and driver-facing view. Among 
other benefits, the cameras capture close calls, 
such as when a driver had to brake hard or turn 
suddenly to avoid a collision, and gives drivers  
and managers a chance to review what went  
well and what could have been improved.
Auto-docking technology  — We are 
implementing auto-docking capability on all airport 
ground service equipment so that operators no 
longer have to maneuver the equipment the last 
3 meters toward the plane. The technology was 
piloted in FY18 and we expect to add 1,000 of 
these auto-dockers next year.FedEx Freight
During FY18, we made significant progress with 
our policy to implement three key safety 
technologies in all FedEx Freight road tractors, 
which drive the most miles in the FedEx Freight 
fleet. We were an early adopter of these 
technologies in the transportation industry — 
installing them as soon as they were commercially 
available — and we intend to have 100 percent of 
our FedEx Freight road tractor fleet equipped by 
the end of FY19.Safety Above All (continued)
Tractor Safety Innovations at FedEx Freight
Safety Feature FY18 Implementation1
Collision mitigation systems  
with automatic braking10,224 (or 93%)
Audible lane departure  
warning systems10,677 (or 97%)
Roll stability systems 10,691 (or 97%)
1 10,991 road tractors total
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 29Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Ground 
At FedEx Ground, where contracted service 
providers are responsible for their own  
vehicle fleets, a combination of robust safety 
requirements, standards, audits, and incentives 
help to ensure safety. 
Each provider must maintain and administer a 
safety and compliance program for all personnel 
assigned to provide services to FedEx Ground.  
In addition, we work in partnership with our 
service providers to promote highway safety. 
MyGroundBiz is a web-based resource through 
which we communicate organizational and industry 
news, updates, business insights, customer alerts, 
and safety/regulatory information. We also 
encourage providers to engage in weekly voluntary 
forums that address highway safety topics for 
linehaul, as well as pickup-and-delivery operations. 
Making sure our contractors’ vehicles include the 
latest safety technology is also essential. In FY17, 
FedEx Ground established a new contracting 
standard for linehaul service providers that 
included on-board video recorders and forward 
collision and lane departure warning systems, 
which have been installed in 100 percent of 
linehaul tractors. In FY18, we began a three-year 
process to implement similar technology on all 
FedEx Ground delivery vans as well, and to add 
forward collision avoidance mitigation on tractors. 
Working with manufacturers, we provide retrofit 
kits and monitor installation to achieve compliance 
with these and other equipment requirements.Safe Driving Recognition
FY18 was a record year for FedEx drivers in the 
National Truck Driving Championships, with a  
total of 175 FedEx drivers taking home first-place 
honors in state championships and advancing to 
the national competition. FedEx drivers took home 
National Championship trophies in seven of the 
nine classes, and one earned the title of Grand 
National Champion. Also, for the second year in a 
row, we honored drivers who have accomplished 
40-year safe driving records with FedEx.
Air Safety 
FedEx Express
FedEx Express operates the world’s largest 
dedicated all-cargo air fleet, and we have long 
been an industry leader in safe and secure flight 
operations — a differentiator for our business. 
Today, our aviation safety strategy includes, among 
other elements, the use of evolutionary technology 
and science to keep us at the forefront, along  
with a holistic approach to review any mishaps  
or near misses. We’ve deployed a rigorous  
risk identification system and communication 
campaign called The Right Way to raise awareness 
among team members about practical safety 
issues. Through a monthly series of presentations 
and discussions, the campaign helps to make sure 
team members have the knowledge they need to 
identify mistakes on the job before they turn into 
safety concerns. And while we expect all team 
members to follow all safety procedures, we also 
design system resiliency into each operation, 
which helps to guard against human error.Safety Above All (continued)
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 30Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySafety Above All (continued)
Facility Safety
Safety Above All begins well before the first 
employee steps into a new facility. 
FedEx Express: Safety in Design
At FedEx Express International, the Safety in 
Design system embeds safety at the facility 
planning stage and incorporates consistent 
standards, tools, decisions and behaviors informed 
by frameworks such as OHSAS 18001. The 
system encompasses hazard identification, risk 
assessment and best practices early in the design 
process to ensure safety is central in the hardware, 
systems, equipment, products, tools, materials, 
energy controls, layout, and configuration in every 
facility project. Consistent standards for features 
like walkways and traffic lanes also give team 
members a familiar experience at each facility, 
which contributes to safety.
FedEx Ground: Prevention through Design
Similarly, at FedEx Ground, a program called 
Prevention through Design incorporates safety 
improvements at facilities and yards. In FY18, one 
Prevention through Design effort recommended 
engineering controls to reduce potential hazards 
between load lane staging conveyors and large-
package conveyors in hubs and stations. Already, 
316 of the improved bridge conveyors have  
been ordered.
Safety initiatives were completed at all FedEx 
Ground yards during FY18. These included adding 
high-visibility yellow wrapping and LED light bars 
to hostlers (specialized vehicles used to move 
trucks and trailers on FedEx properties) to improve 
visibility, installing safety signage and requiring that 
anyone outside designated walkways wear 
high-visibility reflective garments. FedEx Ground also finished installing video event 
data recorders on all hostlers in the yard network. 
These systems capture video and vehicle data 
before, during and after a collision, and coaching 
on these events — a focus in FY18 — reduced 
preventable hostler accidents. In addition, a 
new Stop Work Authority program empowers 
employees to stop any activity they witness 
that could create an unsafe environment.
Safety Training
Our operating companies implemented a number 
of innovative safety training methods in FY18:
• FedEx Ground piloted virtual reality training 
modules on trailer setup, dock behaviors,  
large-package lifting techniques and others. 
• FedEx Express Slip and Fall Simulator allows 
team members to experience real-life dangers in 
a safe environment. While safely harnessed into 
the simulator, employees are taught methods for 
dealing with inclement weather, such as walking 
on slick surfaces while carrying packages and 
maneuvering around obstacles. Already in place 
in Indianapolis, a simulator was also installed  
at our Memphis World Hub in FY18.
• FedEx Express Safe Foundations Training  
Center at our Indianapolis hub takes new team 
members through a course on the safest ways 
for handling cargo, operating equipment and 
performing other essential ramp activities.
• FedEx Express updated training on close-quarters 
skills, in which drivers address common 
challenges such as navigating between two 
parked vehicles, expanding the experience to real 
life in a controlled environment with an instructor. 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 31Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyRecruiting and Retaining Top Talent 
Hiring and retaining the world’s best talent is 
challenging. We employ a range of innovative 
recruiting, development, and retention 
approaches, including:
• Focused workforce strategy  — We develop 
3-year workforce strategy plans for all skilled 
positions at FedEx Services so we know where 
to focus learning and development initiatives.
• Investments in non-traditional candidates  
— Through a variety of alliances, we identify and 
coach candidates from non-traditional pathways. 
This includes aligning our hiring investments 
with our philanthropic giving strategy, where 
appropriate, to help people develop skills that 
get them workforce ready.
• Training and development  — We offer a  
wide array of formal training and on-the-job 
learning opportunities, as well as tuition 
reimbursement, to help FedEx team  
members build rewarding careers.Pathways to a FedEx Career
Hiring and retaining top talent in a tight labor 
market is at the heart of our ability to maintain  
our global workforce in the years to come.  
At FedEx, we believe there is more than one  
path to a successful career, and we aim to provide 
opportunities to non-traditional candidates for  
our entry-level positions. Employment Pathways,  
a FedEx Cares pillar closely linked to our talent 
management efforts, supports education, job 
training, and access to employment using a variety 
of platforms. Through financial investments and 
collaborations with educators and non-profits,  
we help underserved youth and others navigate 
the college application process, train for  
high-demand jobs such as in tech and logistics, 
and access employment through credential 
programs. To this end, we have removed the 
college degree requirement from some positions 
and are instead hiring from “boot camps” that 
specialize in IT, sales, or customer service.
Likewise, when it comes to hiring non-traditional 
candidates such as “opportunity youth” — the  
5 million people in the U.S. ages 16 to 24 who are 
neither in school nor working — we look for ways 
to forge a three-way collaboration among the 
education system, nonprofit organizations and our 
company. This allows us to identify, support and 
nurture students every step of the way and get 
them the teaching, mentoring, and coaching they 
need for success. In addition, our recruiters 
connect qualified candidates with people doing 
similar jobs in the company so they can learn  
more about the experience of working at FedEx. >100,000
youth and veterans provided with 
education, job training and access 
to employment since FY16
$7.1m
invested in programs that provide 
pathways to employment since FY16
$2.7m
invested in programs that provide 
pathways to employment in FY18 alone
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 32Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyRecruiting and Retaining Top Talent (continued)
Jobs for Returning Veterans 
As part of our ongoing commitment to provide 
U.S. military veterans with rewarding employment 
as they transition to civilian life, we implemented 
an innovative hiring algorithm in FY18 that makes 
it easier for veterans to find jobs at FedEx. Now, 
veterans can go to our Careers site and enter 
their military occupation code. The algorithm 
automatically translates this code into open 
positions that align with their skills. 
For other ways we build an inclusive workplace, 
see Diversity & Inclusion .Team Member Retention
We prioritize promoting team members from 
within and regularly post positions internally 
before advertising them publicly, which is central 
to retaining top talent. In FY18, we retained 
92 percent of our full-time U.S. team members. 
Globally, FedEx hired 200,411 full and part-time 
team members in FY18, while 191,917 left the 
company in this period. Most of these positions 
involved part-time hourly workers, including 
package handlers.
When careers at FedEx end, we provide career 
transition and outplacement services to eligible 
employees globally. Through a third party, FedEx 
offers access to career coaching, job search, 
professional skills development and other support 
to assist in managing career endings and continued 
employability in the broader market. 
For details about employee retention, including 
turnover by gender year over year, see the 
Data Appendix .92%
of full-time U.S. team members 
were retained in FY18
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 33Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyLearning and Development
Multiplying the potential of our people is central  
to our learning and development approach. 
A variety of training and development programs, 
along with our longstanding commitment to promote 
managers from within, help FedEx team members 
make the most of the diverse job opportunities 
across our operating companies. Team members 
participated in an average of 19 hours of formal 
training in FY18, many of them through our online 
FedEx Learning Center. There, team members can 
access more than 24,000 courses covering essential 
skills. Collaborations with universities and other 
learning institutions provide even more opportunities 
for team member development. 
FedEx offers leadership and career development 
tools and education for all full-time employees.  
In FY18, we also rolled out virtual and augmented 
reality learning opportunities. So far, this experiential 
learning has used technology to allow team 
members to see how our hub operations work 
without the time and expense of travel. Some 
operating companies, including FedEx Ground, 
have begun using gamification in training for  
hourly positions. Additional virtual reality and 
gamification training platforms are planned. Removing Obstacles  
to Higher Education
Across our organization, we are committed to 
removing obstacles to higher education wherever 
possible. For instance, we recently announced the 
‘Learning inspired by FedEx (LiFE)’ partnership 
between FedEx Express and the University of 
Memphis. The partnership will allow the 11,000+ 
employees of our Memphis World Hub the chance  
to earn a tuition-free, fully online degree. Additionally, 
we have expanded access to the LiFE Program for 
employees at other major FedEx Express facilities  
in the U.S., including Indianapolis, Oakland,  
Los Angeles, and Newark. The initiative eliminates 
financial barriers to post-secondary education  
and paves the way for FedEx Express employees  
to pursue a university degree. Throughout our 
enterprise, a total of 8,821 employees received  
a combined $11.4 million in tuition assistance  
to further their education during FY18.
Similarly, easing the financial burden of rising 
education costs on the next generation of aviation 
professionals is central to our continued growth. 
In FY18, we made a $2.5 million commitment  
to create the FedEx Purple Runway Aviation 
Scholarship. Beyond the significant financial 
assistance, the program includes collaborations 
with six universities and technical schools that 
provide valuable education and training for aspiring 
pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians and other 
aviation professionals. 
For management and non-management training 
hours, see the Data Appendix . Performance Management
As reported last year, in FY18 we continued refining 
how we assess employee performance to replace 
annual performance reviews with more consistent 
coaching and feedback to give employees even 
greater opportunities to direct their career 
development. This change began in FY17 at  
FedEx Ground with the proactive performance 
management program Gaining Ground, in which 
employees drive goal-setting and feedback is 
provided frequently. 
In FY18, a similar approach, CoachForward,  
was implemented for salaried positions at FedEx 
Corporate and FedEx Services. Both programs 
include setting business and personal goals annually, 
with managers and employees participating in a 
continuous coaching relationship toward those  
goals throughout the year. To help ensure success, 
managers have received focused training in 
coaching. Going forward, we will continue 
collaborating across operating companies to shift 
from traditional performance management to 
performance development, adapted to each 
company’s systems.$11. 4 m
in tuition assistance provided 
to employees in FY18
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 34Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyEngaging Our Team Members
We listen to our team members through annual 
surveys, employee networks and direct feedback 
so we can improve their experience, build an even 
more productive workplace and strengthen our 
business. In FY18, 83 percent of eligible 
employees completed our annual engagement 
survey, providing valuable feedback and 12,000 
open-ended comments. Text analytics provided 
senior leaders with a summary of comments to 
inform changes based on employee feedback.  
For instance, in FedEx Services individual reports 
are available for all leadership levels. Each leader 
utilizes their results and employee feedback to 
develop leadership plans in our online system.
A multi-part culture initiative is providing additional 
connection points for international team members 
with our company and our brand. Launched as an 
initiative to establish a common culture following 
the TNT acquisition, it has since evolved to inspire 
and motivate international team members about 
our culture. Building on the results of a culture 
survey and assessment, the initiative focuses 
on incorporating the FedEx culture into our 
communications, behaviors, business processes, 
decision-making, recruiting, career development 
and other aspects of our business. 
Culture immersion workshops highlight ways  
to reflect our culture in everything we do, while 
culture ambassadors help to make sure the desired 
cultural values and behaviors are present in our 
daily actions. Today, we have five generations in 
the FedEx workplace, and nearly one-third of our 
workforce is under 30 years old. As we continue 
to grow and diversify our workforce, our strong 
and unified culture will provide the shared 
foundation for a bright future.Collectively Bargained  
Agreements at FedEx
The vast majority of FedEx employees do not  
work under a collectively bargained agreement, 
and FedEx believes in compensating and treating 
our employees in a fair manner. In the U.S.,  
a group of employees’ decision to unionize  
is their own, and FedEx respects that right, 
however, the company’s track record with  
respect to employee relations demonstrates  
that most of our employees prefer a direct 
relationship with the company. The pilots of FedEx Express, who are a small number 
of the total employees at FedEx Express, are 
employed under a collective bargaining agreement 
that took effect on November 2, 2015. This collective 
bargaining agreement is scheduled to become 
amendable in November 2021, after a six-year term. 
In addition to our pilots at FedEx Express, FedEx 
Supply Chain has a small number of employees 
who are members of unions, and FedEx Freight 
drivers at one location have voted for union 
representation, but are not currently subject to a 
collective bargaining agreement. Internationally, 
there are some unionized employees who do  
not fall within the umbrella of U.S. labor law,  
and a union has been certified to represent 
owner-drivers at a FedEx Freight facility in Canada.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 35Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyDiversity & Inclusion
The FedEx experience starts with our people.  
We take seriously our responsibility to foster 
respectful, safe workplaces that celebrate  
the unique contributions of each individual. 
As we work together to deliver the Purple 
Promise, we also aim to empower our team 
members to reach their full potential and meet 
their career goals, in turn helping us meet our 
business goals. To achieve this, we need the best 
people — and a broad range of backgrounds and 
perspectives. And with operations in so many 
communities around the world, we rely on a 
diverse mix of talent to understand our customers’ 
varied needs. Everywhere we operate, diversity 
and inclusion (D&I) are part of our culture.
Our D&I practices help deliver a better future  
for team members, customers, suppliers and 
communities. Each operating company maintains 
a D&I team that also participates in an enterprise-
wide Diversity & Inclusion Corporate Council. 
This group holds in-person strategy sessions 
and meets monthly to further embed D&I into 
our organization through best practices that 
support success.
Diversity Starts at the Top
The FedEx Board of Directors includes twelve 
directors, four of whom are women and two 
who are African American. Women represent 
22 percent of FedEx’s management employees 
globally, while minorities comprise 36 percent 
of management employees in the U.S. 
See the Data Appendix for the percentage of 
minorities in management from FY16 to FY18 
in the U.S.Recruiting for a Diverse Workforce
Through collaborations with key organizations,  
we recruit candidates from a variety of backgrounds 
to help us build a more inclusive workplace.  
For example, we work with the National Urban 
League, United States Hispanic Leadership 
Institute, Society of Women Engineers  
and others to increase our involvement at 
conferences and career fairs and launch  
targeted recruitment initiatives.
The internship program collaborates with the D&I 
team to ensure the pipeline of students coming 
into FedEx is as diverse as possible. We recently 
added targeted recruiting events to reach an even 
more diverse population of African American and 
Hispanic students. The program now includes 
more than 50 percent minorities.
In order to ensure our interns have a positive 
experience at FedEx, interns are paired with  
a team member who provides feedback and 
mentoring throughout the summer. The program 
has continued to grow since its inception. In FY18, 
we received more than 16,000 applications to  
fill our 170 summer intern positions. This is an 
increase of 2,000 applicants from the previous 
year. We typically hire around 70 percent of  
interns for full-time employment.
Also during FY18, we hosted our first annual 
IT summit with two historically black colleges 
and universities. The summit gave students the 
opportunity to join us for a day of education and 
gain exposure to the company. In addition to 
presentations and discussions about technology 
opportunities at FedEx, we conducted mock 
interviews and provided feedback to help students 
position themselves for success in the job market.Across our operating companies, FedEx team 
members participate in business resource teams 
and affinity groups that help recruit and develop 
talent, create connections and build community 
through targeted programs and events that align 
with business strategies for maximum impact. 
Numerous networks are available to team 
members, including Women in Leadership, Black 
Professional’s Network, All-Generation, Multi-
Ethnic Leadership Community, Asia Network, 
LGBT & Friends, U.S. Military Veterans and 
many others.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 36Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyDiversity & Inclusion (continued)
A Diverse and Inclusive Culture
We believe that a culturally competent workplace 
is one where team members can bring their whole 
selves to work because the workplace has the 
right accountability, infrastructure, and resources 
to foster a lasting, inclusive culture. 
Education, training and regular communications 
encourage managers and individual team 
members to embrace a strategic mindset and 
a culture where D&I are fundamental to the 
organizational bottom line. 
FedEx Ground developed standardized D&I 
awareness materials and integrated this content 
into the orientation programs for management 
positions and the standard leadership development 
series. During FY18, FedEx Ground also offered 
62 sessions of the Inclusive Workplace Learning 
Map course — an instructor-facilitated game 
experience — reaching 1,800 team members. 
Also during the year, FedEx Office created an 
inclusive project team resource, developed a new 
D&I website, updated interview guides to reflect 
D&I principles, began evaluating formal diversity 
training modules and incorporated D&I messages 
into onboarding materials.As we continue integrating TNT Express and other 
companies, cultural competence and diversity 
play key roles. For instance, as part of the culture 
initiative underway at FedEx Express International, 
which includes FedEx Express operations outside 
the U.S., we have created a cross-cultural, 
multinational transition network of team members 
empowered to support the integration process 
through facilitation and coaching as we work 
together to build an inclusive culture. This includes 
affirming the identity of everyone, building the 
community toward shared purpose and cultivating 
leaders at every level.
See the Data Appendix for:
• FedEx global headcount by gender
• U.S. percent workforce diversity
• U.S. percent generational diversityA Workplace Free of  
Harassment and Discrimination
We are committed to maintaining a safe, 
respectful and lawful workplace environment  
for all employees. Our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics , policies on equal opportunity and 
non-discrimination, training and related resources 
ensure team members and managers will provide 
this work environment. This includes a policy 
against retaliation so that employees will come 
forward to report concerns in good faith. We 
prohibit harassment and discrimination; we treat 
any report of such behavior seriously and treat 
each incident with confidentiality and sensitivity.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 37Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyTeam Member Quality of Life
At FedEx, we believe our success depends on the 
talent, dedication and well-being of our people. 
Providing them with competitive health care, 
wellness, retirement and other benefits supports 
our team members’ quality of life and enables 
them to perform at their best. 
Health and Wellness
FedEx offers health programs and competitive 
health benefits for eligible full-time and part-time 
team members and their dependents. We cover 
most healthcare costs for our U.S. team members, 
including medical, dental and vision coverage. 
Team members can also access a 24-hour nurse 
line, integrated personal health teams and a 
medical decision support group free of charge. 
Maternity and flexible work options are available 
to help employees manage work-life balance, and 
FedEx provides short- and long-term disability and 
life insurance benefits to eligible team members. 
Team member wellness programs, including 
healthy weight management and tobacco 
cessation programs, stress-management classes, 
access to health club services and other resources, 
reflect our holistic approach to supporting well-
being. Other wellness offerings at some operating 
companies include free on-site flu shots, on-site 
mammograms and fitness challenges. In addition to family-friendly benefits such as 
maternity leave and financial assistance with 
adoptions, FedEx offers a Work-Life Balance 
Program to all U.S. team members. Team 
members can access specialists and online 
resources for advice and support on common life 
events and challenges, such as parenting, child 
care and financial matters. In FY18, a total of 
132,656 team members — 45 percent of eligible 
U.S.-based team members — participated in 
work-life balance programs, about 8 percent more 
than the previous year. 
Saving for the Future
We encourage eligible U.S. team members to save 
for retirement through our pension and 401(k) 
plans. In FY18, 91 percent of U.S.-based team 
members participated in our 401(k) plans. To 
encourage greater retirement plan participation, 
we held 35 benefits fairs in FY18, reaching more 
than 20,000 employees and spouses. In response 
to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we made a 
voluntary contribution of $1.5 billion to our U.S. 
pension plans — among the best funded in the 
U.S. We also announced more than $200 million  
in increased compensation to certain hourly  
team members 6 months early.91%
of U.S.-based team members 
participated in our 401(k) plans in FY18
 132,656
team members participated in 
work -life balance programs in FY18
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 38Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyHoofddorp
52.3061° N, 4.6907° E
ENVIRONMENT
Multiplying Efficiencies
At FedEx, we connect people and possibilities around 
the world, responsibly and resourcefully. Building on  
a philosophy we call Practical Sustainability, we work  
to multiply efficiencies, minimize impacts and apply 
innovative solutions to enable opportunities for our 
business and customers. Central to our Practical 
Sustainability philosophy are four interconnected building 
blocks — performance, transparency, innovation, and 
leadership — that drive strategic, transformational 
stewardship to strengthen our operations, grow our 
business, and add value to society. 
The FedEx Express International headquarters in 
Hoofddorp, the Netherlands, is one of the greenest 
offices in Europe. The carbon-neutral, LEED Platinum 
building conserves energy with features like intelligent 
lighting controls and produces more energy than it 
consumes through solar panels and a combined heat 
and power plant that runs on biological waste.Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our Company
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 39Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize
Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize is the global 
strategy that informs our approach to Practical 
Sustainability .
Reduce: Minimize or eliminate impacts from 
activities and operations.
Replace:  Apply the right solutions in the right 
applications.
Revolutionize: Discover and utilize cutting-edge 
technologies and solutions.
Throughout the organization, our Reduce,  
Replace, Revolutionize strategy guides 
environmental efforts to drive efficient use of 
resources and cost savings in four key areas:
• Aircraft efficiency
• Vehicle efficiency
• Sustainable facilities
• Sustainable materials and recyclingIn each of these areas, our Practical Sustainability 
philosophy helps us determine the right sustainability 
initiatives, which are then guided by input from the 
experts on our Sustainability Impact Teams (SITs). 
Collectively, these efforts have contributed to  
an approximately 37 percent reduction in CO 2 
emissions intensity (on a revenue basis) across  
the enterprise from FY09 to FY18, a period in 
which revenue grew by 84.5 percent.
Team member engagement is also central to 
success in achieving our sustainability strategy 
and goals. A variety of internal programs encourage 
FedEx team members to actively contribute to  
our continued progress at reducing fuel emissions, 
energy use and waste in the workplace. Examples 
include FedEx® Fuel Sense and Eco Drive at FedEx 
Express, Energy Watch at FedEx Freight, Simplify 
Your Center at FedEx Office, and EarthSmart 
Champions at FedEx Ground.37%
decrease in CO2 emissions intensity 
(on a revenue basis) since FY09 
2,690,828
metric tons of CO2e emissions avoided 
from enterprise-wide fuel and energy 
saving initiatives in FY18*
* Includes on-site solar, building lighting retrofits, FedEx Fuel 
Sense, aircraft fleet modernization, FedEx Express vehicle 
efficiency, and FedEx Freight intermodal rail usage.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 40Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx operates a fleet of more than 670 aircraft 
and more than 180,000 owned and contracted 
on-road and non-road vehicles (including some 
80,000 company-owned vehicles over which  
we have operational control) around the world. 
The fuel used to power this fleet represents a 
significant operational cost, as well as our most 
material environmental impact, accounting for 
almost 6 percent of operating expenses and 
92 percent of our emissions footprint in FY18.  
Our continued rapid growth means we must seek 
new approaches and available technologies to 
optimize efficiency in our vehicle and aircraft  
fleets, and facilities. Through these efforts we 
have been able to decrease our GHG emissions 
intensity on a gross revenue basis. We are proud 
of the continued reductions we have made in GHG 
emissions intensity and have adopted a number 
of strategies to continue improving efficiency:
• Setting ambitious fuel efficiency and emission 
reduction targets.
• Modernizing our aircraft and vehicle fleet.
• Incorporating alternative fuels into our fleet.
• Using more purchased transportation, including 
interline commercial air carrier and intermodal 
rail transport.
• Engaging team members and customers in 
energy efficiency initiatives.
• Advocating for regulatory and policy changes 
that support emissions reduction, efficiency 
improvements, and cleaner technology.
See the Data Appendix for FY18 and year-over-
year results on:
• Direct and indirect energy consumption
• Direct and indirect GHG emissions
• Emissions intensity
• Other significant air pollutantsFY18 Transportation Efficiency Gains and Cost Savings
FedEx Initiatives FY18 Cost Savings 
Estimates ($)FY18 Emissions Avoided 
(metric tons CO 2e)
Aircraft fleet modernization, FedEx® Fuel Sense 
operational improvements$394 million 1,970,391
Fuel-efficient driving, vehicle technology improvements, 
alternative fuel usage and electric vehicles$65 million 240,171
Intermodal rail transport $134 million 296,510
The Role of Interline and Intermodal Transport in Our Emissions 
Intensity Calculations
Where appropriate, we use interline commercial air carrier transport to maximize system and network 
efficiency and lower costs, which in turn reduces fuel use and emissions. We collaborate with others  
to carry FedEx packages on routes where our aircraft have less than a full load. This makes our air 
operations in that region more efficient. We also use intermodal rail for some FedEx Freight and  
FedEx Ground shipping, which provides the efficiency of rail for the long-haul portion, and the 
convenience of trucks to deliver freight to the originating intermodal terminal and the final destination.
These practices have shifted some emissions from Scope 1 to 3. To maintain transparency, we are 
including Scope 1, 2 and 3 as part of our CO 2 emissions intensity reduction (on a gross revenue 
basis). We have reduced our CO 2 emissions intensity (on a revenue basis) by approximately 37 
percent from FY09 through FY18. Including just our Scope 1 and 2 emissions as part of this intensity 
comparison would have shown a greater reduction of approximately 43 percent for the same period.Energy and GHG Emission Reduction
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 41Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyAircraft Efficiency
Goal:  Reduce aircraft emissions intensity 
30 percent from a 2005 baseline by 2020.
Progress:  22.6 percent reduction since  
2005 baseline.
Goal:  Obtain 30 percent of jet fuel from 
alternative fuels by 2030.
Progress:  The first delivery of commercially  
viable and available alternative jet fuels is 
anticipated in 2020.
With the world’s largest dedicated all-cargo air 
fleet, making sure our aircraft operate as efficiently 
as possible is essential to both our operational 
performance and environmental commitments. 
We apply the three-part Reduce, Replace, 
Revolutionize approach to meet our ambitious 
operational goals and maximize efficiency. 
This means we:
• Reduce  fuel use in flight operations through  
our global FedEx® Fuel Sense program. 
• Replace  and modernize our planes with more 
efficient aircraft.
• Revolutionize  our operations by exploring and 
employing alternative fuels and technologies. 
In FY18, this approach achieved strong results. 
Our aircraft modernization and FedEx Fuel Sense 
programs saved more than 204 million gallons  
of fuel and avoided more than 1.97 million metric 
tons of CO 2e emissions during the fiscal year.Progress against Aircraft Emission Goals
9.3%
2009Original goal 20%2Revised goal 30%1
10.6%
201013.9%3
201117.6%
201220.2%4
201321.4%
201421.0%
2015 201622.0%
201722.2% 22.6%
201830.0%
1  Revised goal set in 2011: Reduce aircraft CO 2 emissions intensity by 30 percent by 2020, using FY05 as the baseline year.
2  Original goal set in 2008: Reduce aircraft CO 2 emissions intensity (on a pounds-per-ATM basis, or Available Ton Mile)  
20 percent from a 2005 baseline by 2020. FedEx was the first U.S. airline to make a public commitment to reduce  
aircraft emissions.
3  In 2011, we changed from reporting by calendar year to reporting by fiscal year.
4  In the 2013 Global Citizenship Report, we reported that we had reduced our aircraft CO 2 emissions intensity in FY13 to a total 
reduction of 22.3 percent from 2005 levels. This result occurred from a comparison against our original 2005 calendar year 
benchmark. However, in comparison against our FY05 benchmark, which differs from the calendar year, the total reduction  
in emissions intensity was 20.2 percent from 2005.
Commitment to Sustainable Aviation
FedEx is committed to efforts that will make aviation more sustainable. For the last several years, we 
have participated in the effort to develop the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International 
Aviation (CORSIA) program alongside our industry association. This year CORSIA was adopted by the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a specialized agency of the United Nations, which has  
the authority to enforce the provisions of the program. CORSIA will complement the aviation industry’s 
multi-pronged strategy, which includes development of alternative fuels to reduce emissions on a 
lifecycle basis and the advancement of engine and airframe technology to improve efficiency. CORSIA 
is designed to achieve the international aviation industry’s goal of carbon neutral growth starting in 
2020. In 2019 and 2020, airlines will report emissions from international flights in accordance with  
the requirements of CORSIA, and the data will be used to set the 2020 emissions baseline. Beginning 
in 2021, FedEx and other airlines subject to the requirements of CORSIA will be responsible for 
purchasing and retiring carbon credits to offset emissions in excess of the baseline set in 2020.
2020 Goal
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 42Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyAircraft Efficiency (continued)
Reduce
FedEx® Fuel Sense
Since 2006, the FedEx Fuel Sense program has 
leveraged the insights and ideas of aviation team 
members and experts who have built a culture of 
fuel-saving behavior and systems. A total of 59 
projects have been identified, and 655 million 
gallons of jet fuel have been saved since then as 
well. Collectively, FedEx Fuel Sense programs 
saved more than 94 million gallons of jet fuel in 
FY18, and avoided more than 912,000 metric tons 
of CO 2e emissions, an increase of 7.4 percent  
over FY17 savings. 
During FY18, three FedEx Fuel Sense programs 
contributed considerably to efficiency and 
operational cost savings:
• Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) Program — 
This program changed the way we think of  
using the APU, a small jet engine primarily used  
to power the aircraft systems while in the gate. 
We substitute ground (electric) power instead 
of operating the APUs, and have set new 
parameters for when the APUs should be  
powered up and shut down. During FY18, this 
program saved almost 11 million gallons of fuel  
and avoided 104,000 metric tons of CO 2e. 
• Cost Index Programs  — Flight dispatchers 
utilize a feature in their flight planning system 
that balances fuel costs with aircraft speed to 
plan each flight at the lowest cruise speed to 
arrive at its destination on time. During FY18, 
this program helped to lower operating costs, 
saved 8 million gallons of fuel, and avoided 
77,000 metric tons of CO 2e.
• Top of Climb Optimization  — This program 
re-evaluates the expected flight arrival time 
when an aircraft reaches top of takeoff climb. 
Using actual takeoff time, the program can 
determine any changes to expected arrival  time. If the flight is expected to arrive early,  
the dispatcher calculates a slower cruise  
speed to save fuel while maintaining an on-time 
arrival. This program was based on improved 
decision-making and coordination between  
flight crews and dispatchers, and saved  
515,000 gallons of fuel and $959,000 in 
associated fuel costs in FY18.
Replace
Aircraft Modernization
Through our ongoing modernization program, 
FedEx maintains one of the world’s largest 
and most innovative all-cargo aircraft fleets.  
Our aircraft modernization strategy delivered  
even more benefits in FY18, saving 109,644,262 
gallons of fuel and avoiding 1,058,368 metric  
tons of CO 2e, a 22.7 percent increase over  
the previous year.
We have been working to reduce aircraft 
emissions since 2005, our baseline year,  
and announced our first reduction goal in 2008. 
Since 2005, our aircraft emissions intensity  
has decreased by 22.6 percent. 
However, our progress falls short of the overall 
improvements needed to meet our 2020 reduction 
goal. Continued higher shipping volumes and  
the need to maintain older aircraft marked for 
retirement while we await production of more 
efficient replacements have presented challenges 
to meeting our goal. In June 2018, FedEx Express 
committed to purchase an additional 12 Boeing 
777 Freighters and 12 Boeing 767 Freighters,  
and as of February 2019 has pending orders  
for 21 Boeing 777F aircraft and 57 Boeing 767F 
aircraft, with delivery scheduled from 2019  
through 2025. The inclusion of these new aircraft 
will improve fleet efficiency, operating costs  
and operational flexibility for FedEx Express.Our feeder aircraft fleet, which covers shorter 
routes, is also being upgraded. In FY18,  
we entered into agreements to purchase  
50 Cessna SkyCourier 408 aircraft and 30 ATR 
72-600F aircraft, which improve fuel efficiency, 
reliability and operating costs. 
For details on our aircraft fuel and emissions 
savings, see the Data Appendix . For details  
about our aircraft purchase commitments,  
see the 2018 Annual Report .
Revolutionize
Aircraft Biofuels
Our goal to obtain 30 percent of jet fuel from 
alternative fuels by 2030 underscores our 
commitment to explore all avenues to reducing 
emissions from our aircraft. We have collaborated 
with our industry, government agencies, academia 
and alternative fuel suppliers in search of viable, 
cost-effective alternatives. In FY18, the journey  
to aviation biofuels reached a milestone. Red Rock 
Biofuels, which will supply low-carbon, renewable 
jet fuel to FedEx Express, broke ground on a 
biodiesel refinery. The first delivery of alternative 
jet fuel is anticipated in 2020. 
Also in FY18, the ecoDemonstrator, a Boeing 777F 
built for FedEx Express, became our first plane to 
fly 100 percent on biofuel during a short-term 
period that also tested and gathered data on 35 
new technologies. Read more about this specially 
equipped plane here .
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 43Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyVehicle Efficiency
Goal:  Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel 
efficiency 50 percent from a 2005 baseline 
by 2025.
Progress:  39.6 percent improvement from 
a 2005 baseline.
The FedEx global ground transportation fleet 
includes more than 180,000 on-road and non-road 
vehicles, approximately 80,000 of which are 
company-owned vehicles within our operational 
control. By applying our Reduce, Replace, 
Revolutionize approach, we are improving  
the fuel economy of FedEx fleet vehicles  
and reducing GHG emissions:
• Reduce  miles driven and fuel used through 
efficiencies such as optimizing route structures 
and using innovative tracking that correlates 
driver behaviors with fuel efficiency. 
• Replace  older elements of our vehicle  
fleet with the most up-to-date and efficient 
technology viably available.
• Revolutionize  our fleet through timely testing 
and adoption of innovations, such as electric and 
alternative fuel technologies, where applicable, 
as well as exploration of emerging technologies 
like autonomous vehicles, mobile command 
centers and robots.
Through FY18, our efforts collectively resulted  
in a 39.6 percent improvement in FedEx Express 
vehicle fuel efficiency from our 2005 baseline. 
See the Data Appendix for FY18 and year-over-
year results on:
• Vehicle fuel use (diesel, gasoline, propane, 
Liquefied Natural Gas, Compressed Natural Gas)
• Number of alternative fuel vehicles (hybrid, 
electric, Liquefied Natural Gas, Compressed 
Natural Gas, Liquefied Petroleum Gas,  
hydrogen fuel cell)
• Fuel saved and emissions avoided through 
vehicle efficiency efforts2 4 0 ,171
metric tons of CO2e emissions 
avoided, equivalent to   
the emissions from 51,428 
passenger cars driven  
for one year23m
gallons of fuel saved, a 
9.3 percent improvement 
over FY17Progress against Fuel Economy Goals
14.1%
2009Original goal 20%3Revised goal 30%2New goal 50%1
15.1%
201016.6%
201122.0%
201227.0%
201329.5%
201433.5%
201535.0%
201637.9%
201739.6%
201850.0%
2025 Goal
1  New goal set in 2017: Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency 50 percent from a 2005 baseline by 2025.
2 Revised goal set in 2012: Increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel efficiency 30 percent from a 2005 baseline by 2020.
3  Original goal set in 2008: Improve FedEx Express fuel efficiency 20 percent from a 2005 baseline by 2020.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 44Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyVehicle Efficiency (continued)
Reduce and Replace
Technology and Operations 
Across the enterprise, we work to utilize the 
emission technology available in each market  
for our vehicles. 
This enables us to reduce emissions and minimize 
the impact of the remaining legacy vehicles in the 
fleet. The effects of this approach are especially 
notable at FedEx Express, which operates more 
than 85,000 company-owned and contracted 
vehicles around the world and has committed  
to maintaining a robust emission strategy,  
well ahead of low-emission zone and other 
regulatory requirements.
Innovative approaches such as platooning, which 
we demonstrated with Volvo Trucks North America 
in FY18, offer the potential to increase truck fuel 
efficiency while enhancing safety. When two or 
three trucks can drive closely behind one another, 
fuel efficiency improves as a result of reduced 
drag, which accounts for up to 25 percent of  
a truck’s fuel consumption. Our platooning 
demonstration allowed trucks to follow each  
other in a safe and controlled manner by using 
automated vehicle-to-vehicle communication  
in which the lead truck has the ability to detect  
an issue by radar and signal to the following  
trucks for automated responses using collision 
mitigation and other technology. This is an 
example of our efforts to both reduce fuel  
use and revolutionize our fleet at the same  
time. See the Safety  section and press release   
for more on this promising approach to efficiency 
and safety.Some of our approaches combine new technology 
with traditional fuel efficiency tactics, such  
as driver practices, for even better outcomes.  
For instance, a FedEx Freight pilot initiative in  
FY18 correlated the use of cruise control and 
certain braking techniques to determine the  
impact on fuel efficiency. The results were shared 
with drivers so they could see exactly how their  
habits behind the wheel could reduce fuel use.
FedEx Freight also continued replenishing some of 
its fleet early in FY18, replacing older tractors and 
other equipment with newer models that enhance 
efficiency and safety. However, as with our aircraft 
modernization program, some of the older tractors 
slated for replacement have been kept in service  
to accommodate company growth.
Intermodal Rail Transport
Use of intermodal rail transport at FedEx Freight, 
which is 70 percent more efficient than transport 
by road, saved an additional 25,846,666 gallons  
of fuel and avoided 296,510 metric tons of CO2e 
emissions, a nearly 12 percent increase over  
FY17. This reflects a 10 percent increase in  
rail miles for FedEx Freight intermodal shipping 
during FY18 compared to the previous year.
An 11 percent increase in diesel fuel savings  
due to greater use of intermodal rail helped  
to offset the impact of retaining some older 
vehicles and improve overall emissions  
reductions at FedEx Freight during FY18.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 45Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyVehicle Efficiency (continued)
Revolutionize
Alternative Fuel Vehicles
At FedEx, we are continuing our “revolutionize” 
approach to alternative fuel and vehicle 
technologies. The continued adoption of alternative 
fuel and advanced technology vehicles will play a 
critical part in reducing our global GHG emissions, 
while also benefiting the broader transportation 
industry. We are intensifying efforts toward  
greater use of electric vehicles and exploring  
fuel cell-powered vehicles, among other 
advanced technologies. 
Electric Vehicles
Advances in battery technology are making  
it possible to electrify segments of the 
transportation sector, including parts of  
the FedEx vehicle fleet. As a result, in FY18,  
we were able to add 445 electric vehicles to  
our global fleet, resulting in more than 2,554 
electric vehicles in service by the end of the  
fiscal year, including forklifts, airport ground 
service equipment and delivery trucks. 
FedEx Express is continuing to increase its use  
of electric vehicles — which not only reduce 
emissions, but also lower maintenance costs. 
In 2019, we expect to acquire 1,000 Chanje V8100 
electric vehicles for FedEx Express in California,  
a significant step in our efforts to scale up the 
electrification of our fleet, especially for urban 
delivery. These vehicles can travel more than  
150 miles when fully charged and have the 
potential to help save 2,000 gallons of fuel while 
avoiding 20 metric tons of CO 2e emissions per 
vehicle each year. Outside the U.S., FedEx 
Express is testing electric vehicles in China  
and Europe, with a view to strategically scale  
the adoption of commercially viable models  
in those markets soon. In FY18, FedEx Freight also completed 
assessments to determine return on investment 
and optimization factors for selecting electric 
versus propane forklifts. The assessment 
evaluated infrastructure installation costs, charging 
requirements, propane purchase costs, and other 
factors to determine when electric or propane 
forklifts are the better choice. Future plans at 
FedEx Freight include incorporating the Tesla Semi 
electric tractors into the fleet. However, delivery  
is not anticipated for several years and will require 
infrastructure upgrades for large electric vehicles. 
To this end, we are currently focusing on our 
facilities to make sure they are equipped to  
charge many electric vehicles at once. See the 
Sustainable Facilities section for details on the 
ways we are beginning to upgrade our infrastructure 
with new technology and incorporate additional 
on-site solar installations to power an electric fleet.Electrification Coalition
The FedEx commitment to electric vehicles  
as a path to further reduce emissions and 
enhance operational efficiency starts at the 
top. Since 2009, our Chairman and CEO, 
Frederick W. Smith, has served on the 
Electrification Coalition. This nonpartisan, 
not-for-profit group of business leaders is 
committed to promoting policies and actions 
that facilitate deployment of electric vehicles 
on a mass scale. Mr. Smith also has advocated 
for transportation electrification through  
the Electrification Coalition by championing 
the development of the Coalition’s Fleet 
Electrification Roadmap, a comprehensive 
analysis of the business case for electric-drive 
technology adoption among the more  
than 16 million commercial, corporate,  
and government fleet vehicles in the  
United States. For more information,  
see the Coalition  website.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 46Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyVehicle Efficiency (continued)
Biodiesel and Other Fuels 
Across the FedEx enterprise, we continued adding 
alternative fuels to our fleets in FY18, including 
biodiesel, liquefied natural gas (LNG), compressed 
natural gas (CNG), propane and fuel cells. 
FedEx Ground sells biodiesel to contracted  
service providers through a network of more than 
80 fuel island locations. In FY18, 70 percent of 
diesel sold to service providers consisted of 
various biodiesel blends, avoiding almost 55,000 
metric tons of CO 2e emissions. Beyond providing 
pre-blended biodiesel at those fuel island 
locations, 27 locations also have on-site blending 
technology. We plan to expand the fuel island 
network throughout the U.S. based on careful 
evaluation of each geography and extend the 
saving benefits of the fuel program. During FY18, 
FedEx Ground also worked with a propane 
distributor in Illinois to install our first propane 
fueling facility, and another facility is expected 
to be announced later in 2019. In FY18, we had more than 330 CNG and LNG 
vehicles in service. Our fleet now includes more 
than 100 CNG tractors at FedEx Freight, reducing 
diesel fuel use and emissions. FedEx Freight 
continues to monitor the development of natural 
gas vehicles and explore additional opportunities  
to add more to the fleet. However, the availability 
of natural gas engines capable of meeting our 
freight needs is limited.
Hydrogen fuel cell technology offers the potential 
for low-emission alternatives to traditional engines, 
and could provide excellent range for longer 
routes. FedEx Express currently operates 15  
fuel cell cargo tugs at the Memphis World Hub  
and continues seeking extended-range electric 
vehicles, but fueling infrastructure remains an 
impediment. Through a U.S. Department of 
Energy grant, FedEx Express recently evaluated 
a medium-duty fuel cell vehicle with an 
extended range. Innovations for Urban Mobility
Operating effectively in congested urban areas 
requires ongoing innovation. FedEx seeks to 
identify innovative last-mile delivery solutions  
as the number of vehicles in cities continues to 
outpace infrastructure. We are evaluating emerging 
technologies through a number of pilot programs. 
For example, in one pilot, FedEx Express is 
assessing the potential role of artificial intelligence 
to connect vehicles to infrastructure, such as 
traffic lights, which could help optimize routes. 
Another pilot explores innovative approaches 
that would allow us to transport a large batch 
of packages to one area of a city, then use small 
electric vehicles or vans to deliver them to their 
final destinations. This would help to minimize 
the number of larger delivery vans and trucks  
in congested city centers.
Alternative Fuel Vehicles
Vehicles FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Alternative Fuel Vehicles 2,724 2,865 3,873
Hybrid 527 463 389
Electric 1,817 2,109 2,554
Compressed Natural Gas/Liquefied Natural Gas 195 220 331
Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) (Propane)(1)144 58 583
Hydrogen Fuel Cell 41 15 16
(1) Total does not include propane-powered forklifts. FY18 increase due to inclusion of on-road LPG vehicles at TNT.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 47Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySustainable Facilities
Goal:  Seek Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certification on all new U.S. FedEx 
Express buildings.
Progress:  On track, with five additional LEED-
certified facilities in FY18.
The efficient operation of our more than 5,000  
air and ground hubs, local stations, freight  
service centers, and retail locations is critical  
to achieving our sustainability goals and our 
business objectives. From efficient facility  
design and construction, to state-of-the-art  
energy management and waste minimization 
practices, we are working to make our  
worldwide facilities more sustainable. 
Our operating companies improve efficiency in 
many ways, including by certifying facilities to 
external standards, where viable, that encompass 
a host of environmental criteria. These include:
LEED
• In FY18, FedEx Express completed five new 
LEED-certified facilities in the U.S., bringing  
the total number to 19 facilities covering an  
area of 825,142 square meters. 
• FedEx Express operates three LEED-certified 
facilities outside the U.S., including the FedEx 
Express International headquarters in 
Hoofddorp, the Netherlands, which is certified 
LEED Platinum.
• FedEx Ground has six LEED-certified facilities.
• FedEx Office has one LEED-certified facility. ISO 14001 
• FedEx Express operates 561 facilities certified 
to the ISO 14001 environmental management 
system standard. 
• Two more FedEx Supply Chain facilities in the 
U.S. achieved ISO 14001 certification in FY18, 
bringing the total to three facilities for that 
operating company.
BREEAM (Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method)
In Europe, FedEx Express International uses 
BREEAM as the standard for all new buildings. 
For offices, our minimum building standard is 
BREEAM Excellent, and for warehouses, our 
minimum standard is BREEAM Good. 
Other Facility Sustainability Programs
The FedEx Ground EarthSmart Champions 
program aims to increase employee participation 
and engagement in sustainability initiatives in 
every facility. The program grew significantly 
in FY18, adding 212 champion sites, an 85 percent 
increase over the previous year. The FedEx Freight 
GREEN Site internal certification program, which 
recognizes facilities that complete certain actions 
to reduce environmental impacts, like recycling  
and conserving energy, included all FedEx Freight 
sites in FY18.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 48Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySustainable Facilities (continued)
Facility Energy Efficiency
Energy efficiency is an important component of 
our sustainable facilities approach, encompassing 
both our Reduce and Replace strategies. 
Lighting Retrofits
As in previous years, lighting retrofits — including 
upgrading to LED for interior and exterior lights  
and installing motion sensors and lighting control 
systems, among other upgrades — make up  
a large part of our energy efficiency projects.  
In FY18, we upgraded an additional 27 facilities. 
Along with previous retrofits, these upgrades 
saved more than 230 million kWh of electricity  
and avoided 171,252 metric tons of CO 2e 
emissions in FY18. Since the program began  
in 2007, lighting retrofits at 1,112 facilities have  
saved more than 1.2 billion kWh of electricity.
230m
kilowatt-hours energy saved in 
FY18 as a result of lighting retrofits
 171,252
metric tons of CO2e emissions 
avoided in FY18 as a result  
of lighting retrofit projectsEnergy Management Systems
Centralized energy management systems also 
contribute to our efficiency efforts by setting 
temperature controls to adjust for occupied and 
vacant building times, controlling lighting, and 
identifying the most energy-intensive buildings  
and potential energy-saving opportunities.  
At FedEx Office, a new energy management 
system was rolled out at 508 stores in FY18,  
with others planned for the coming year.  
We also have centralized energy management 
systems in place at 27 facilities across other 
operating companies. 
However, recent assessments have shown the 
combination of LED lighting and motion sensors 
enhances efficiency as much as sophisticated 
control systems, and therefore remains our 
primary lighting efficiency measure. Where 
possible, we also work with suppliers to help  
them increase the energy efficiency of equipment 
in our facilities that support FedEx operations.  
For example, during FY18, we collaborated with 
key technology suppliers to update our data  
center infrastructure. The program reduces power 
consumption by 62 percent, from 70 kilowatts 
per hour to 26.6 kilowatts per hour, and is 
expected to save more than $1 million in energy 
costs over five years. 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 49Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySustainable Facilities (continued)
Renewable Energy
Goal:  Expand on-site energy generation and 
continue to procure renewable energy for facilities.
Progress:  3 new solar installations in FY18.
Revolutionizing Energy Management
Expanding on-site renewable energy generation 
and procuring renewable energy are examples of 
revolutionizing our facilities. At 24 FedEx facilities, 
renewable and alternative energy systems — 
including on- and off-site solar, as well as fuel cell 
technologies — generated almost 33 million kWh 
of clean energy in FY18. These installations reduce 
GHG emissions and operating expenses, advance 
our renewable energy goals and demonstrate 
industry leadership. With the addition of three  
new on-site solar installations during FY18, FedEx 
on-site solar generation capacity grew to more 
than 21 million kWh at 23 facilities in FY18.  
This is equivalent to the annual electricity 
consumption of 2,342 homes. One of our  
newest renewable energy installations is a  
FedEx Ground on-site solar project in Hawaii  
that features our first implementation of energy 
storage through state-of-the-art Powerwalls, 
which are rechargeable lithium ion batteries  
with liquid thermal control. In addition, electricity generated by on-site fuel 
cells totaled 12.8 million kWh in FY18, an increase 
of 33 percent over FY17. Along with on-site solar, 
these revolutionary energy initiatives underscore 
our ongoing commitment to reducing emissions 
through best available technologies. As renewable 
energy technology continues to evolve, we seek 
new ways to revolutionize our energy management 
approach. This includes greater investments in 
solar energy and fuel cell technology that we hope 
will allow us to create our own on-site microgrid 
pilots. Already, three FedEx facilities are powered 
by both fuel cells and solar, and we have begun 
exploring the possibility of replacing diesel backup 
generators with on-site solar, fuel cells, combined 
heat and power technology, and energy storage. 
Together, these advancements could create a 
microgrid and provide a more efficient alternative 
to generators that, while historically necessary, 
largely sit unused.
We also continue to closely monitor opportunities 
to purchase off-site renewable energy, although 
certain regulatory and accounting structures 
present obstacles. We currently purchase off-site 
renewable energy in the State of Washington and 
continue looking for other locations where the 
practice is viable.
See the Data Appendix for details on our 
efficient facilities.On-Site Solar Electricity 
GenerationEmissions Avoided
21.0
20.8
16.912,504
12,425
7,027
million kilowatt-hours metric tons CO 2e
 FY16   FY17   FY18
33m
kWh of clean energy generated  
at 24 facilities in FY18 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 50Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySustainable Materials and Recycling
FedEx-branded packaging — the familiar envelopes 
and corrugated boxes provided to our customers 
and used to protect their shipments in transit — 
is the largest volume of material we purchase  
each year. 
We also purchase other types of materials for our 
operations, such as vehicle maintenance supplies, 
other packaging supplies and pallets. 
Responsible Packaging
Minimizing packaging and maximizing recycling 
volume conserve resources, reduce waste  
and improve transportation emissions efficiency. 
As of FY18, 100 percent of FedEx-branded 
packaging is recyclable, and 54 percent is made 
from recycled content. For FY18, we began 
reporting the third-party-certified content 
percentage of our packaging materials, which 
reached 55 percent for the year, mostly from 
certified corrugated packaging. To reduce the 
potential for wasted packaging, we have approved 
packaging specifications and ordering allocations. 
Quarterly audits of our packaging suppliers further 
ensure branded packaging meets all specifications 
and guidelines. The FedEx Sourcing team also 
evaluates each critical packaging supplier annually 
on environmental management practices, 
continuously monitoring and improving 
sustainability programs where possible. Optimizing packaging by making weight, size and 
content adjustments helps customers ship more 
efficiently, such as through dimensional, or dim, 
weight pricing based on package volume.  
This allows us to make the best use of space  
in our aircraft, vehicles and distribution centers, 
improves loading efficiency, and reduces 
emissions. Dim weight pricing also encourages 
customers to make packaging adjustments  
that maximize product density and reduce 
packaging materials. 
FedEx Packaging Services works with customers 
to optimize package size and design, which 
reduces their costs and environmental impacts. 
Our specialty engineers assess existing packaging 
and recommend more efficient designs, followed 
by performance testing to make sure the 
redesigned packaging meets customer needs  
with just the right amount of material. We also 
work to make sure our customers’ packages are 
delivered free of any damage that could lead to  
a return and replacement.
For details about the volume and percentages of 
packaging materials, paper, and other operational 
materials with recycled content, see the 
Data Appendix . 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 51Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySustainable Materials and Recycling (continued)
Sustainable Paper 
After corrugated packaging, paper represents our 
most used material, so our operating companies 
have implemented a variety of strategies 
to responsibly source, use, and recycle paper. 
Those efforts delivered notable results in FY18. 
We doubled the percentage of paper purchased 
with recycled content over FY17. Across the FedEx 
enterprise, the vast majority of our paper use takes 
place during printing operations at approximately 
2,000 FedEx Office locations. Providing customers 
with sustainable paper options is essential, so we 
stock clearly labeled, sustainably sourced paper 
options, which we encourage customers to 
choose. The FedEx Office forest-based product 
procurement policy includes vendor requirements 
for responsible forest-management practices,  
as well as recycled-content standards. 
FedEx Office applies a holistic approach to 
responsibly sourcing, using and recycling paper, 
as well as managing operations. This includes 
engaging team members and customers in our 
sustainable practices, along with a forest-based 
product procurement policy that encourages 
manufacturing of innovative, sustainable paper 
products. We purchase the vast majority of our 
paper from suppliers who are certified by 
sustainable forest programs, such as the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC). In fact, 99.7 percent of 
all paper purchased by FedEx Office during FY18 
was third-party-certified, including 88 percent that 
was FSC certified. In addition to purchasing our 
paper from certified forest programs, we are 
looking to reduce tree pulp consumption overall. 
We continue purchasing “tree-free” products, or 
those that use alternative fibers, like agricultural 
residues. We plan to continue researching these 
alternatives and others to ensure the continued 
reduction of our paper footprint.For more information about our supplier purchasing 
policies, please see the CSR Overview  section. 
For the percentages of FSC and other third-party-
certified sustainable paper used by FedEx Office 
year over year, see the Data Appendix .
Engaging our Customers
At FedEx Office and other operating companies, 
we aim to make it easy for our customers to 
reduce material use and increase recycling. 
FedEx Office® Print Online, for instance, allows  
our commercial customers to print locally,  
avoiding unnecessary shipping and enabling  
them to preview projects before production,  
which reduces wasted pages. 
The longstanding paper shredding and recycling 
service at FedEx Office allows customers to bring 
any documents, including sensitive items such 
as tax returns, to a FedEx Office location and 
have them securely and confidentially shredded, 
then recycled. During FY18, almost 9.9 million 
pounds of paper were shredded and recycled.  
88%
of all paper purchased  
by FedEx Office during  
FY18 was FSC certifiedWaste and Recycling
As our business grows to meet the accelerating 
demands of e-commerce and other shipping 
needs, our waste management strategies help 
ensure we recycle more of our own waste and 
encourage customers to recycle our packaging. 
In FY18, 78 percent of the solid waste generated  
in our operations was sent to recyclers, an increase 
of 7 percentage points over the previous year, and 
the volume of landfilled waste dropped by almost 
23 percent in FY18 over FY17. Our operating 
companies use different waste reduction and 
recycling strategies to maximize waste diversion  
for their unique operations. At FedEx Ground, some 
smaller facilities send their recyclable items to a 
larger facility where they are combined and picked 
up for recycling. This allows our waste management 
vendors to limit the number of facilities visited to 
pick up recyclables. We also diverted close to 
22,500 metric tons of wood waste materials, 
including pallets, away from landfills in FY18. 
Also in FY18, FedEx Ground reduced waste further 
by eliminating the core on plastic film — widely 
used to wrap and secure packages — and 
replacing it with a reusable core. Roughly 900,000 
cardboard cores will no longer need to be recycled 
or sent to landfills, which is equal to diverting 
almost 1.2 million pounds of paper. In addition, 
this film is lighter than its predecessors, making 
it easier for team members to handle. 
For details about the volume of waste generated, 
recycled and landfilled year over year across FedEx 
operating companies, see the Data Appendix . 
Included are:
• Solid waste
• Hazardous waste
• Non-hazardous regulated waste
• Universal waste
• Electronic waste
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 52Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyData Appendix
Our Company/CSR Overview
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE(i)FY16 FY17 FY18
Revenue ($B) $50.40 $60.32 $65.45 
Operating Income ($M) $3,077 $5,037 $4,870
Operating Margin 6.1% 8.4% 7.4%
Net Income ($M) $1,820 $2,997 $4,572
Diluted EPS $6.51 $11.07 $16.79 
Capital Expenditures ($B) $4.82 $5.12 $5.66 
 (i) For more information, see our 2018 Annual Report .
STAKEHOLDER VALUE-ADDED FY16 FY17 FY18
Dividends Paid to Shareholders ($M)(i)$277 $426 $535 
Salaries and Employee Benefits ($B)(i)$18.58 $21.54 $23.21
Community Investments ($M)(ii)$57.29 $65.30 $64.12 
(i) For more information, see our 2018 Annual Report .
(ii) This includes cash, in-kind and United Way team member contributions.
SUPPLY CHAIN FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Number of Suppliers Participating in RFx Event 318 281 386
Total Number of Suppliers Asked Sustainability Questions in RFx Event 229 206 300
Percent Suppliers Screened with Sustainability RFx Questions 72% 73% 78%
Diverse and Small-business Supplier Spending ($B) $9.20 $9.10 $9.6
Minority-Owned Businesses (percent of total diverse supplier spend) 13% 12% 15%
Women-Owned Businesses (percent of total diverse supplier spend) 11% 9% 9%
Other Small Businesses (percent of total diverse supplier spend) 76% 79% 76%
Minority-Owned Businesses ($B) N/R $1.10 $1.40
Minority Spend by Demographic (percent)
Hispanic N/R 30% 23%
African American N/R 27% 30%
South Asian Indian N/R 13% 4%
Asian N/R 4% 5%
Other/Not Disclosed(i)N/R 26% 38%
(i) This includes Native American, which was <1 percent of data reported.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 53Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyCHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS & VOLUNTEERISM FY16 FY17 FY18
Cash Grants ($M) $40.53 $49.30 $47.78 
Corporate Charitable Shipping ($M) $5.68 $5.25 $6.94 
Corporate Marketing and FedEx Express In-kind Donations ($M) $1.66 $0.90 $0.42 
Total Company Direct Charitable Contributions ($M)(i)$46.21 $55.45 $55.14 
Team Member Contributions to United Way Campaign ($M) $9.42 $9.85 $8.98 
TOTAL ($M) $57.29 $65.30 $64.12 
FedEx Cares Volunteerism
Total FedEx Volunteers 20,875 21,650 13,016
Total Volunteer Hours 93,175 111,200 81,976
(i) FY16 Total Company Direct Charitable Contributions does not include Corporate Marketing and FedEx Express in-kind donations, which are included in the FY17 & FY18 totals.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 54Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyOur People
HEADCOUNT BY GLOBAL REGION(i)FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Headcount(i)335,767 404,336 426,530
U.S. (percent) N/R 70% 69%
Europe (percent) N/R 12% 11%
Asia Pacific (APAC) (percent) N/R 7% 7%
Latin America, Caribbean (LAC) (percent) N/R 6% 8%
Canada (percent) N/R 3% 3%
Middle East, Indian Subcontinent and Africa (MEISA) (percent) N/R 2% 2%
Full-time Employees – Global Workforce(ii)N/R N/R 243,226
Part-time Employees – Global Workforce(ii)N/R N/R 134,000
Full-time Employees – U.S. Workforce 153,441 160,732 169,795
Part-time Employees – U.S. Workforce 117,202 118,879 123,526
(i) FY17 & FY18 include TNT Express employees.
(ii) Excludes TNT Express employees.
TEAM MEMBER CAREER DEVELOPMENT FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Average Training Hours (does not include TNT Express) 20.08 19.38 19.07
Management 31.77 22.58 38.68
Non-management 19.23 19.11 17.50
U.S. WORKFORCE DIVERSITY FY16 FY17 FY18
Caucasian 50.6% 50.1% 49.2%
Black/African American 28.4% 28.7% 29.0%
Hispanic/Latin 13.9% 14.5% 15.3%
Asian 4.0% 4.3% 4.0%
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0.7% 0.6% 0.6%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander N/R 0.5% 1.3%
Other 2.4% 1.3% 0.5%
Minorities in U.S. Management 30.7% 34.3% 35.5%
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 55Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyWORKFORCE GENERATIONAL DIVERSITY(i)FY16 FY17 FY18
Global Workforce
Under 30 Years of Age N/R N/R 29%
30–50 Years of Age N/R N/R 46%
Over 50 Years of Age N/R N/R 25%
U.S. Workforce
Under 30 Years of Age 29% 29% 30%
30–50 Years of Age 41% 41% 42%
Over 50 Years of Age 30% 30% 28%
(i) FY18 excludes TNT Express, FedEx Europe and MEISA regions. 
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (NOT INCLUDING TNT EXPRESS) FY16 FY17 FY18
New Hire Data
Total New Hires 143,327 163,755 200,411
New Hire Rate 43% 47% 53%
Male Percent of New Hires 67% 67% 66%
Female Percent of New Hires 33% 33% 34%
Employee Turnover Data 
Total Turnover 128,723 142,805 191,917
Turnover Rate 38% 41% 51%
Male Percent of Turnover 68% 67% 65%
Female Percent of Turnover 32% 33% 35%
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 56Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyGLOBAL HEADCOUNT BY GENDER (NOT INCLUDING TNT) FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Employees 335,767 349,456 377,226
Total Male Employees 241,702 249,674 269,824
Male Percent of Headcount 72% 71% 72%
Total Female Employees 94,065 99,782 107,052
Female Percent of Headcount 28% 29% 28%
Management Employees 22,777 27,200 28,559
Male Percent Management Employees 78% 78% 78%
Female Percent Management Employees 22% 22% 22%
Non-Management Employees 312,990 322,256 348,667
Male Percent Non-Management Employees 72% 71% 71%
Female Percent Non-Management Employees 28% 29% 29%
GLOBAL SAFETY DATA FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Lost Time Injury Rate, per 200,000 Hours Worked(i)3.53 3.33 3.34
North America (US/Canada) 3.79 3.68 3.89
Rest of the World (Includes TNT Express) 2.39 2.51 2.21
Lost Time Injuries percent Male(ii)69% 66% 66%
Lost Time Injuries percent Female(ii)31% 34% 34%
Total Preventable Recordable Vehicle Accident Rate, per 1 Million Miles Driven(iii)0.31 0.27 0.28
Total Number of Employee Fatalities (work-related)(iv)6 7 7
(i) Per 200,000 hours worked; Lost Time Injury means a nonfatal traumatic injury that causes any loss of time from work beyond the day or shift it occurred; or a nonfatal nontraumatic illness/disease that causes disability at 
any time. Global LTIR data is based on definitions from the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
(ii) For percent Male and percent Female breakouts: FY16 breakouts do not include FedEx Express Europe, Middle East, Indian Subcontinent and Africa, or Canada regions. FedEx Express Europe and TNT Express numbers 
are not included for FY17 or FY18. FedEx Logistics numbers not included in FY18.
(iii) The Preventable Recordable Vehicle Accident Rate incorporates employees and contracted service providers for FedEx Ground, FedEx Freight Canada and FedEx Custom Critical.
 The term DOT Recordable means an occurrence involving a commercial motor vehicle operating on a highway in interstate or intrastate commerce which results in at least one of the following and it is ruled Preventable:
 * A fatality; or
 * Bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or
 * One or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage as a result of the accident, requiring the motor vehicle(s) to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other motor vehicle.
(iv) GRI definition: the death of a worker occurring in the current reporting period, arising from an occupational injury or disease sustained or contracted while in the organization’s employ.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 57Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyEnvironment
DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION ( terajoules ) FY16 FY17 FY18
Direct Energy Consumption
Aircraft Fuel
Jet Fuel 156,960 160,399 168,804
Vehicle Fuel(i)
Diesel 37,167 36,867 42,989
Gasoline 3,415 3,489 3,385
Propane 848 870 954
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) 20 146 156
Facility Use
Natural Gas(ii)4,257 5,727 6,797
Heating Oil 9 52 38
Total Direct Energy Consumption (terajoules) 202,676 207,550 223,123
Indirect Energy Consumption 
Facility Electricity Use
Purchased Electricity 6,647 7,988 8,461
Purchased Heating(iii)N/R 61 N/R
Purchased Cooling(iii)N/R 2 2
Total Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 6,647 8,051 8,463
Total Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 209,323 215,601 231,586
Other Indirect Energy Consumption 
Contracted Transportation 33,908 36,068 38,179
Total Other Indirect Energy Consumption (terajoules) 33,908 36,068 38,179
Total Energy Consumption (terajoules) 243,231 251,669 269,765
Consolidated Revenue ($M) $50,365 $60,319 $65,450 
Total Energy Intensity (terajoules/$M) 4.83 4.17 4.12
(i) Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
(ii) FY17 usage restated slightly higher due to incorrect data reported last year for one FedEx Logistics facility.
(iii) Started capturing data in FY17.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 58Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyDIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG ( metric tons CO 2e ) FY16 FY17 FY18
Direct Energy Consumption (Scope 1)
Aircraft Fuel
Jet Fuel 10,654,641 10,889,010 11,467,497
Vehicle Fuel(i)
Diesel(ii)2,603,841 2,582,237  3,049,466 
Gasoline(iii)236,429 241,331 235,226
Propane 48,619 50,535 55,432
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) 1,000 7,625 8,153
Facility Use
Natural Gas(iv)214,676 278,650 333,844
Heating Oil 659 4,211 2,765
Total Direct Emissions (Scope 1) (metric tons CO 2e) 13,759,865 14,053,599 15,152,383
Indirect Energy Consumption (Scope 2)
Facility Energy Use
Purchased Electricity 958,526 1,093,006 1,049,902
Purchased Heating N/R 1,012 N/R
Purchased Cooling N/R 91 85
Total Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 2) (metric tons CO 2e) 958,526 1,094,109 1,049,987
Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions (v)N/R 1,094,867 1,049,987
Total Direct and Indirect Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) (metric tons CO 2e) 14,718,391 15,147,708 16,202,370
Other Indirect Energy Consumption (Scope 3)
Contracted Transportation 2,336,731 2,571,006 2,740,531
Team Member Business Travel 63,944 71,409 80,434
Total Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) (metric tons CO 2e) 2,400,675 2,642,415 2,820,965
Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) (metric tons CO 2e) 17,119,066 17,790,123 19,023,335
Total Emissions Intensity (Scope 1, 2 & 3) (metric tons CO 2e/$M revenue) 339.90 294.93 290.65
(i) Includes a small amount of fuel used for emergency generators at some facilities.
(ii)  Restated FY17 Diesel CO 2e due to incorrect calculation in last year’s report.
(iii) Restated FY17 Gasoline CO 2e due to incorrect calculation in last year’s report.
(iv) Restated FY17 Facility Natural Gas CO 2e due to incorrect data reported last year for one FedEx Logistics facility noted above.
(v) Based on comprehensive assessment performed for FY17, we determined the difference between Location- and Market-based Scope 2 emissions is de minimis at the present time. Therefore, we are reporting the same 
value for both metrics in FY18. 
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 59Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyGHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY FY16 FY17 FY18
Consolidated Revenue ($M) $50,365 $60,319 $65,450 
Total Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & 2) (metric tons CO 2e/$M revenue) 292.23 251.13 247.55
Total Emissions Intensity (Scope 1, 2 & 3) (metric tons CO 2e/$M revenue) 339.90 294.93 290.65
DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS: GHG equivalency breakdown (metric tons CO 2e) FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Direct Energy Emissions (Scope 1)(i) (ii)
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 13,620,050 13,889,862 14,772,355 
Methane (CH4) 6,536 6,862 7,287 
Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 133,280 136,202 156,547 
Total Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 2)
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 953,914  1,087,006 1,042,938
Methane (CH4) 432  2,397 1,965
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 4,180  4,705 5,084
Total Direct and Indirect Energy Emissions (Scope 1 & 2)
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 14,573,964 14,956,011 15,815,293
Methane (CH 4) 6,967 8,949 9,252
Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 137,460 140,704 161,631
Total CO 2e (Scope 1 & 2) 14,718,391 15,105,666 15,986,176
(i) This breakout does not include TNT Express vehicle fuel emissions as we did not get those emissions broken out by GHGs. FY18 also does not include vehicle CNG/LNG usage as those GHGs were not broken out 
separately either.
(ii) Restated FY17 data due to Diesel, Gasoline and Facility Natural Gas revisions noted above.
OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR POLLUTANTS ( metric tons )(i)FY16 FY17 FY18
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)(ii)317,009 321,603 344,326
Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 20,623 21,031 22,547
Particulate Matter (PM10)(ii)3,096 3,040 3,248
(i) FY17 and FY18 do not include TNT Express vehicle fuel emissions. FY18 does not include facility natural gas usage.
(ii) Restated FY17 NOx and PM10 data due to overreported values in last year’s report.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 60Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyEnergy saved (terajoules) CO 2e emissions avoided (metric tons)
FUEL AND ENERGY SAVING INITIATIVES FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18
On-site Solar Electricity Generation 61 75 76 7,027 12,425 12,504
Building Lighting Retrofits 771 793 828 149,789 164,018 171,252
FedEx® Fuel Sense (Jet Fuel) 11,600 12,510 13,436 787,447 849,183 912,023
FedEx Express Aircraft Fleet Modernization 10,208 12,705 15,591 686,169 862,420 1,058,368
FedEx Express Reduce, Replace, Revolutionize Vehicle Efficiency 3,140 3,113 3,401 217,549 219,714 240,171
FedEx Freight Intermodal Rail Usage(i)3,218 3,408 3,787 226,744 264,296 296,510
Total Energy Saved/ Emissions Avoided 28,998 32,604 37,119 2,074,725 2,372,056 2,690,828
 (i) Restated CO 2e emissions avoided value for FY17 due to revision in underlying diesel CO 2e/gallon ratio per restatement above.
GLOBAL ALTERNATIVE VEHICLE FLEET FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Alternative Vehicles 2,724 2,865 3,873
Hybrid 527 463 389
Electric 1,817 2,109 2,554
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) 195 220 331
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (propane)(i)144 58 583
Hydrogen Fuel Cell 41 15 16
 (i) Total does not include propane-powered forklifts. FY18 increase due to inclusion of on-road LPG vehicles at TNT.
FACILITIES OVERVIEW FY16 FY17 FY18
Number of ISO 14001 Certified Sites(i)52 650 561
Number of FedEx Express LEED Buildings in U.S.(ii)12 14 19
Number of FedEx Freight GREEN Site-designated Facilities 240 486 490
Number of FedEx Ground Sustainability Champion Designated Facilities 34 248 460
(i) The majority of ISO 14001 certified facilities are at FedEx Express. The FY18 decrease is due to the lapse in certifications for former TNT Express sites in the United Kingdom and Ireland that were undergoing 
recertification. These sites have since been recertified. 
(ii) There are other LEED facilities as well: FedEx Express International (3 sites), FedEx Ground (6 sites), and FedEx Office (1 site).
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 61Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanySOLAR ENERGY FY16 FY17 FY18
Number of On-site Solar Energy Systems Company-Wide 18 20 23
Solar Electricity Generated On-site (kWh) 16,986,893 20,832,023 21,041,856
Emissions Avoided by Solar Sites (metric tons CO 2e) 7,027 12,425 12,504
MATERIALS CONSUMPTION & RECYCLED CONTENT FY16 FY17 FY18
Packaging Materials(i)
Total Packaging (metric tons) 53,859 66,833 66,495
% of Packaging From Recycled Content 48% 44% 41%
% of Packaging From Third Party-Certified Content N/R 60% 55%
Paper
Total Paper (metric tons)(ii)26,151 23,467 24,256
% of Paper from Recycled Content 6% 5% 10%
Other Operational Materials (solids)
Total Other Operational Materials (solids – metric tons) 21,728 20,238 18,879
% of Other Operational Materials (solids) from Recycled Content 40% 56% 61%
Total Solid Materials Used (metric tons) 101,738 110,538 109,630
Other Operational Materials (fluids – liters) N/R 6,738,515 6,565,694
(i) In addition to cardboard, other materials used in shipping include bubble pack, plastic air pillows, chipboard, Tyvek® envelopes and packaging tape.
(ii) The vast majority of paper reported is for FedEx Office commercial copy and print services in the U.S.
FEDEX OFFICE PAPER CERTIFICATION (%)(i)FY16 FY17 FY18
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 81.0% 87.6% 88.0%
Other Third Party(ii)17.0% 12.0% 11.7%
Non-Certified 2.0% 0.4% 0.3%
(i) This refers to the paper used for printing operations at FedEx Office, which is the vast majority of our paper use across the enterprise.
(ii) Includes SFI/PEFC, Tree Free, ISO 14001, Green Seal, Wind Power and Carbon Neutral.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 62Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyWASTE AND RECYCLING ( metric tons )(i) FY16 FY17 FY18
Total Waste Generated 250,488 287,219 291,059
Sent to Recyclers 177,146 203,550 228,311
Percent Sent to Recyclers 71% 71% 78%
Landfilled 73,342 83,669 62,748
Total Solid Waste (Non-Regulated/Trash) 240,917 275,988 280,715
Sent to Recyclers 169,067 198,353 223,003
Percent Sent to Recyclers 70% 72% 79%
Landfilled 71,850 77,635 57,712
Total Hazardous Waste (Regulated) 828 1,023 892
Sent to Recyclers 597 338 172
Percent Sent to Recyclers 72% 33% 19%
Landfilled 231 686 720
Total Non-Hazardous Waste (Regulated) 7,910 9,486 8,583
Sent to Recyclers 6,649 4,137 4,267
Percent Sent to Recyclers 84% 44% 50%
Landfilled 1,261 5,348 4,315
Total Universal Waste(ii) 66 38 37
Sent to Recyclers 66 38 37
Percent Sent to Recyclers 100% 100% 100%
Total Electronic Waste 767 684 832
Sent to Recyclers 767 684 832
Percent Sent to Recyclers 100% 100% 100%
Landfilled 0 0 0
(i) Refers to data collected in North America and the United Kingdom. Waste at many of our facilities is difficult to track because it is collected by haulers contracted by a landlord or local municipality, or commingled with 
other tenants’ waste in shared facilities such as airports and strip malls, and as such has not been included in this data.
(ii) Universal waste encompasses certain hazardous waste items, including batteries and mercury-containing lamp bulbs, as defined by U.S. EPA regulations.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 63Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE SUMMARY FY16 FY17 FY18
Number of Significant Spills(i)132 134 154
Number of Monetary Violations From External Agencies 3 2 3
Total Amount of Monetary Violations $15,250 $1,119 $35,840 
(i) Defined as spills of hazardous materials like oil, fuel and chemicals that are reportable to the appropriate environmental regulatory agency, such as the U.S. National Response Center.
Cautionary Note
Certain statements in this report may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management’s views with respect to future events and  
financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical 
experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in fuel 
prices, evolving or new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, our ability to meet certain goals relating to aircraft emissions, vehicle fuel efficiency, alternative 
fuels and renewable energy and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.’s and its subsidiaries’ press releases and FedEx Corp.’s filings with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We do not undertake or assume any obligation to update or revise  
any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2019 FedEx Global Citizenship Report 64Data Appendix Environment Our People CSR Overview Our CompanyFedEx Corporation 
942 South Shady Grove Road
Memphis, Tennessee 38120
Please visit csr.fedex.com  