1 
2018 REPORT Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report2Table of Contents 
A Message from Chairman, President and CEO Greg D. Carmichael 3 
Fifth Third Corporate and Economic Profle 4
 2018 By the Numbers 4
 2018 Awards and Recognition 5 
The Fifth Third Compass 6 
A Message from Chief Administrative Ofcer Teresa J. Tanner 7 
Keep the Customer at the Center 8
 Improving Lives of Consumers 9
 Building Wealth for the Future 10
 Building Better Businesses 14 
Building Stronger, Inclusive Communities 18
 Progress Under our $32 Billion Community Commitment 20
 Driving Change in Communities 21
 Expanding Capacity with Leaders 28 
Be Respectful and Inclusive 30
 Inclusion and Diversity 31
 Talent Diversity 34
 Engagement and Wellness 36
 Feature: From Tragedy, a Legacy of Resilience and Solidarity 39
 Supplier Diversity 40 
Take Accountability: Caring for the Planet
 Five Bold Sustainability Goals and 2018 Progress 43
 Accelerating Sustainability 46 
Contact Us 48 
2 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report A Message from Chairman, President  
and CEO Greg D. Carmichael 
We have a long legacy at Fifth Third Bank of supporting 
our local communities through investments, lending, community development, philanthropy and service. We’ve often said that we engage in those activities because we believe that building a strong community builds a better bank. The reverse also is true. When Fifth Third Bank is strong, we can put that strength to work for the communities we serve. With the help of all of our 
stakeholders, that’s exactly what we did in 2018. 
From a fnancial standpoint, 2018 was a solid year for our company. 
This report details the many ways we used our fnancial strength and the most tangible strength we have—our employees’ generosity and commitment—to better the world around us. 
We’ve taken great care in this CSR Report to provide you with 
highlights of our eforts to keep our customers at the center of everything we do; to build strong communities; to foster inclusion and support wellness; and achieve great sustainability goals to protect and strengthen our planet. Please know that we don’t do any of this alone. In fact, without our community partners, none of this would be possible. 
To that end, I want to extend my sincere thanks to everyone who 
supported our Fifth Third family after the shooting that occurred in our Cincinnati headquarters lobby last September. The adage that strength comes from tragedy certainly is true. Our hearts were broken that day as we lost employees and contractors and saw other team members injured. We also saw how great the human spirit is; what we’re all capable of when we come together. From the frst responders to the community to the employees whose lives were forever changed that day, we all learned how to be #FifthThirdStrong. I am grateful, and I ask that you continue to keep our company in your thoughts as the healing continues.  
The strength of community, in all of its forms, is something that sustains all of us through 
good times and bad. Our commitment to it, therefore, is steadfast and true. We’re honored to be members, ourselves, of each of the communities we serve. Like you, we are business owners, consumers, community members and residents. Also like you, we take great pride in doing our part to continue a legacy of caring, concern and social responsibility. 
With gratitude, 
Greg D. Carmichael 
Chairman, President and CEO, Fifth Third Bancorp 
3 4 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
    2018 BY THE NUMBERS 
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversifed fnancial services 
company headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
As of December 31, 2018, the Company had: 
18,084 
$146 B 52K $356 B $36B 2.2 M 1,121 10 
TEAM MEMBERS 
IN ASSETS** FEE-FREE
  ATMS*** IN ASSETS
 UNDER CARE+ IN ASSETS UNDER 
MANAGEMENT+ HOUSEHOLDS FINANCIAL 
CENTERS STATES* SERVING IN AND 
*Fifth Third’s Consumer Bank footprint. 
**Financial information as of 12/31/18. ***ATM network is fee free for Fifth Third Bank customers when using their debit or prepaid card to withdraw cash. When you use an ATM not owned by us, you may be charged a fee by the ATM operator or any network used (and you 
may be charged a fee for a balance inquiry even if you do not complete a fund transfer). Non-Fifth Third ATM Transaction: $2.75 per transaction; International Point of Sale/ATM Transaction Fee: 3.00% of Transaction Amount; Currency Conversion Fee: 0.20% of the Transaction Amount; International ATM Withdrawal: $5.00; Non-Fifth Third Cash Advance Debit Card Fee: Greater of $5 or 3.00% of the transaction amount up to a maximum of $10. 
+Assets under management and assets under care include trust and brokerage assets for individuals, corporations and not-for-proft organizations through Fifth Third’s Trust and Registered Investment Advisory businesses. 
Investor information and press releases can be viewed at 53.com. Fifth Third’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq® Global Select Market under the symbol “FITB.” 
Fifth Third Bank was established in 1858. Member FDIC. 
Equal Housing Lender. Fifth Third Bank is proud to have an engaged and inclusive culture and to promote and ensure equal employment opportunity in all employment 
decisions regardless of race, color, gender, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, military status, veteran status or any other legally protected status.  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
   ’
’
’’
’
’’
52018 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 
5 Community and Environment 
•U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power
Partner, October 2018.
•Platinum MarCom Award, Fifth Third Bancorp 2017Corporate Social Responsibility Report, CSR Reports,November 2018.• Platinum MarCom Award, Fifth Third Bancorp 100Percent Renewable Energy Public Relations Plan,Public Relations program, November 2018.
Employee 
•2018 Human Rights Campaign Foundation’sCorporate Equality Index Perfect Score, for 100percent national rankings for LGBTQ-related policiesand practices, December 2017.
•American Banker s 2018 Digital Banker of the Year,Tim Spence, executive vice president and head ofconsumer bank, payments and strategy, June 2018.
•American Banker s 2018 Most Powerful Women inBanking, Teresa Tanner, executive vice president and chief administrative ofcer, October 2018. 
•Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, January 2018.
•Cincinnati Business Courier C-Suite Award-ChiefMarketing Ofcer, Matt Jauchius, executive vicepresident and chief marketing ofcer, June 2018.
•Cincinnati Business Courier s IT Team of the Year,April 2018.•Cincinnati Business Courier 
s Women who Mean
Business, Teresa Tanner, executive vice president andchief administrative ofcer, October 2018.
•Dave Thomas Foundation’s Top 100 Adoption-Friendly Workplaces, October 2018.
•Diversity Best Practices Index, July 2018.
•Savoy Magazine’s 2018 Top 100 Most InfuentialBlacks in Corporate America, Brian Lamb, executivevice president and head of wealth and assetmanagement, March 2018.
•Careers and the disABLED Employee of the Year,Debbie Lewinski, vice president of business processand controls, April 2018.
Organization 
•Americans for the Arts’ BCA 10: Top 10 Businessesfor the Arts, October 2018.
•BAI 2018 Global Innovation Award Winner, HumanCapital Innovation category for its MaternityConcierge program, October 2018.
•Bank Director s Best at Attracting Millennials,December 2018. 
•Bank Director s Best Corporate Citizen,December 2018. 
•Bank Director s No. 1 Best Technology Strategy,December 2018. •Entrepreneur Magazine’s Top 100 BrilliantCompanies, May 2018.
•Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies 2018,February 2019.
•Minority Business News: Best of the DecadeSupplier Diversity Program, September 2018.
•Opportunities for Ohioans with Disabilities,Platinum Partner, October 2018.
•Women’s Business Enterprise National Council’sTop Corporation for Working with Women BusinessOwners, March 2018.Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR ReportThe Fifth Third Compass 
Our Fifth Third Compass provides the strategic direction 
we need to serve our customers and accomplish our 
objectives through alignment and ownership. 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 6 6  
 
 
 
 
 
  A Message from Chief Administrative 
Ofcer Teresa J. Tanner 
It is an honor to serve our customers—from all walks of life, 
at every age and every stage, and inclusive of everything that makes them who they are. Our goal is to keep our customers at the center of every single thing we do, both inside and outside of our company. We relish being a part of their communities. It’s 
a privilege we will never take for granted. 
On a personal note, I am extremely proud of our employees who 
came together so beautifully after the shooting at our headquarters in Cincinnati last September. We are indeed #FifthThirdStrong. The tremendous outpouring of love and support was inspiring. It helped begin the healing process. We did our best to support those employees and contractors personally impacted, and, in three instances, the families they left behind. We provided weeks of counseling services to our employees and helped lead events that invited us to lift one another up. More about the Sept. 6 tragedy can be found on page 39 of this report. All of us, throughout our entire company, were touched and humbled by the care we received during this difcult time.  
Care is not something we take lightly. We believe strongly in the power of genuine care and in its 
ability to transform situations, outcomes and lives. That’s one reason we made care the basis of a new customer experience initiative in our Operations division last year. Called CARE, the acronym stands for Curious, Accountable, Respectful and Empathetic. It’s a guide for how we approach every interaction with our customers. We appreciate how every touchpoint with our customers is an opportunity to show we care. It’s the right way to provide a customer experience that’s a Fifth Third Better®. 
We exemplify the CARE model when we innovate and develop products like Fifth Third Momentum™, 
which helps customers pay down student debt; when we engage in listening sessions with community stakeholders to help fll gaps in afordable housing, capital access and down payment savings; and when we go about the daily work of getting to know our customers and understand their needs. 
This same model helps guide the actions we take as an employer of thousands of talented women and 
men across the United States and beyond. Such actions have earned Fifth Third recognition as a Top Workplace in multiple regions, as one of the “Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality” and as one of America’s “Top 100 Adoption Friendly Workplaces.”  
Care is part of everyday life at Fifth Third Bank, just as it is part of everyday life in the communities 
we serve. Thank you, again, for giving us the privilege to know and serve you. Thank you for the opportunity to show you we care. 
Sincerely, 
Teresa J. Tanner 
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Ofcer Fifth Third Bancorp 
7 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR ReportKeep the Customer 
at the Center 
8  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Special Feature 
Life is flled with fnancial decisions and 
opportunities, big and small. No one 
wants to feel that they’ve fallen behind; 
no one wants to feel strapped or trapped. 
The more individuals, families and small 
businesses are empowered and fnancially 
healthy, the more our communities thrive. 
Improving Lives of Consumers 
We are committed to providing better fnancial 
solutions for all the people we serve. To improve lives, 
we are constantly listening, searching and discovering 
new ways to make a diference. When we innovate on 
our customers’ behalf, the result is products like the 
Fifth Third Momentum™ app to help with student loan 
debt, and our Down Payment Assistance Program, 
which makes achieving homeownership possible. 
Easing the Burden of Student Debt 
The Fifth Third Momentum app, launched in 2017, 
enables customers to round up their debit card 
purchases to help pay down their student loans. 
Through December 2018, Fifth Third Momentum 
already had helped customers pay down $1.6 million 
in debt. We developed the program and its innovative 
app because student debt is such a signifcant hurdle 
for millennials. A 2018 report on Student Loan Hero 
stated that the average debt for a 2017 graduate was 
$39,400, an amount that increased 6 percent from 
the prior year1. 
Additionally, we joined forces in 2018 with  
CommonBond to help customers pay down their  
student loans through innovative refnancing solutions.  
CommonBond is known for its advanced technology,  
competitive rates and award-winning customer  
service. It also has a one-for-one social mission:  
For every loan funded through CommonBond, the  
company also funds the education of a child in need. 
“We are thrilled to team up with Fifth Third to ofer 
CommonBond student loan refnancing to Fifth Third 
customers,” said David Klein, CEO and co-founder 
of CommonBond. “We are combining the best of 
fnancial technology and banking to make personal fnance better for consumers. Both companies value 
delivering great fnancial products to customers, 
building long-lasting brands that matter, and having 
outsized impact on communities across the U.S.” 
1. Student Loan Hero.com, “A Look at the Shocking Student Loan Debt Statistics for 2018.” https:/ /studentloanhero.com/student-loan-debt-statistics/ 9 Fifth Third Pays of Nurse’s 
$185K Student Loan 
We surprised a Chicago nurse in December 2018 
by paying of her $185,000 student loan. “I 
never imagined a life without student loan debt,” 
said Jasmin Ford, who works six days a week, 
often double shifts of 16 hours a day, and juggles childcare for her son, Caleb. “I just presumed 
monthly payments for a lifetime. Now, thanks 
to Fifth Third, I can put those payments into 
college savings for my son so he won’t have to 
go into debt like I did.”   
Jasmine is the frst in her family to go to college. 
She earned her master’s degree in nursing from 
the University of Illinois at Chicago in 2015 and 
works in the psychiatric department of a Chicago-
area hospital. 
“Jasmin’s story exemplifes the choice many 
Americans face when they strive to build a better 
life for themselves and their families through 
higher education,” said Mike Crawford, who 
led the Bank’s research of millennials and their 
fnancial needs. “We recognize that for many 
people the only available path to a fulflling career 
with a promising future includes being saddled with debt. This is a woman who chose to lift 
herself out of poverty in a career dedicated to helping others.” 
That’s why we launched the Fifth Third Momentum 
app: to help customers pay down their student 
loan balances faster. By helping address that issue, 
we know that we can have a profound and lasting 
efect on communities and the economy. 10 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Keep the Customer at the Center 
Making Homeownership a Reality 
When we made our Community Commitment, we 
pledged to facilitate homeownership for low- and moderate-income individuals and within low- and moderate-income communities. Our down payment assistance program (DPA)* grew out of that mission, and in 2018, we reached the milestone of $5 million in assistance provided throughout our 10-state geographic footprint. 
Our DPA program ofers 3 percent of the purchase 
price in down payment assistance, up to $3,600 for low-income borrowers or those purchasing in a designated low-income area and fnanced through us. The program may be combined with state and local programs to help consumers take advantage of grants and other resources for their home purchase. 
Mortgage Loan Originator Carrie Johnson, 
who works in our Central Ohio market based in Columbus, understands the key role we play in helping customers make the important decision to become a frst-time homeowner. “I had a customer who intended to take a loan from his 401(k) plan to purchase his frst home,” Carrie said. “After we met, I noted that the home he wanted to purchase was located in a low-income census tract, which qualifed him for our DPA program. My customer was extremely happy that he didn’t have to tap into his 401(k) to achieve homeownership. And, our DPA program combined with other programs, meant he didn’t have to bring any funds to the closing table. It’s a wonderful feeling to have the resources and programs available that can help people accomplish their goals.” 
Fifth Third often brings homeownership training to communities via its eBuses. Here, Central 
Ohio’s Melissa Blount-Garner (center) stands alongside other employee volunteers working on the bus during the National Urban League Conference in Columbus. Building Wealth for the Future 
Financial education can make a lasting impact on 
the lives we touch. We are dedicated to improving fnancial wellness at all stages of the life cycle. We equip individuals with the skills they need through our Fifth Third L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved through Financial Empowerment®) programs. Ofered throughout our Consumer Bank footprint, our employee volunteers, trained educators and community organizations collaborate to create fnancial stability in neighborhoods one session at a time. 
Building a Bright Future 
Our newest LIFE program, Fifth Third Finance Academy, was frst ofered to high school juniors during the 2017-2018 school year. Finance Academy includes courses on fnancial education and entrepreneurship and was delivered to nearly 150,000 students. Pre- and post-course testing data showed an average 74 percent gain in knowledge in topics like saving, banking, owning versus renting and insurance. 
Fifth Third Young Bankers Club® is a L.I.F.E. program 
we ofer at no cost in the communities we serve. Since 2004, our employee teachers have educated kids in ffth-grade classrooms to establish good fnancial habits at the outset. In 2018, we were proud to graduate over 3,000 students from our program. Other LIFE programs include Fifth Third Empower U®, our adult fnancial education curriculum; SmartPath, a collaboration with the University of Cincinnati Economics Center, for grades 1-6 in Ohio, Michigan and Florida; and our Next Job workforce solution program. 
In addition to our L.I.F.E. programs, we build fnancial 
wellness in our communities through our oferings of free workshops that help adults and families with money-related matters. We collaborate with local organizations to educate the community about homeownership, identity protection, college education savings and fnancing, and estate and retirement planning. We also use our Fifth Third Financial Empowerment Mobiles, or eBuses, to drive directly into neighborhoods and ofer individual, personalized assistance like credit counseling, job search training and tax preparation. 
*Lending subject to credit review and approval. To be eligible for the down payment assistance of 3% of the home’s purchase price, up to $3,600, the property must be in one of the following eligible states: 
MI, IN, IL, KY, TN, OH, WV, NC, GA, FL and either located in a low Income Census Tract or borrower must meet the low income limit threshold based on the qualifying income per FFIEC website. Down payment assistance may be taxable as income and reported to the IRS. Consult your tax advisor. Not available with all loan products.    “ I dream of becoming a successful African-American entrepreneur. With the  
help of Finance Academy, I have learned the importance of a budget and how  
I should start one. Finance Academy has also furthered my understanding of  
banks and how they work. Additionally, this will help me manage my money  
when I get older and start pursuing my dreams as an entrepreneur. 
— Kiara Fuller, Student  ” 
 Finance Academy, Illinois 
Special Feature 
For consumers with little to no access to banking 
services, it can be hard to fnd help with tax return preparation. That’s why our bankers collaborated with local organizations across our footprint to deliver Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA). Our employees conducted free tax services in fnancial centers, on board our fnancial empowerment mobiles (eBuses) and at national tax preparation centers in underserved communities. 
The VITA program ofers free tax help to those who 
make $54,000 or less per year and need support in preparing their tax returns. Volunteers are certifed by the Internal Revenue Service and provide free income tax return preparation with electronic fling to those who meet the criteria. Volunteers also help community members receive special tax credits for which they qualify. In North Carolina, an event we held with the Urban League resulted in an average tax refund of $1,482. “The Fifth Third eBus was a great resource for clients of the Urban League of the Central Carolinas,” said Teddy McDaniel, Urban League president and CEO. “The Fifth Third team was very thorough with one-on-one counseling, advising and tax preparation assistance. The eBus served as an excellent enhancement to our fnancial education series for clients on the path to economic self-sufciency. We look forward to the eBus returning in the near future.” 
In Tennessee, we worked with the AARP Donelson 
Senior Center to provide tax preparation services, one-on-one fnancial counseling and credit report reviews for seniors. Regional President Mickey McKay was on hand with employees Tracee Smith, community and economic development manager, Tammy Elizer, mortgage sales assistant, and winner of a random drawing, Joyce Skaggs (see photo). Other events in the region, such as one called Operation Stand Down, focused on veterans for assistance. 
Finally, in our Central Ohio region, we hosted an event 
on the eBus in collaboration with the United Way. Called the Super Saturday United Way VITA event, it enabled over 140 community members to get help with their taxes. Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther stopped in to show his support. 
Helping Customers During Tax Season 
11 12 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 Keep the Customer at the Center 
Fifth Third Day Babies Receive 
Financial Gifts 
When Gianna Rose entered the world May 3, she 
was greeted by her adoring family, including her 
6-year-old sister. That was enough for her mom to 
say it was one of the best days ever. Later that day, 
Fifth Third gave the Chicago mom a gift card for 
$1,053 to start a college savings account for her 
new daughter. 
“She is my lucky baby,” Monica Arellano said. 
“What a wonderful surprise.” 
For us, it’s one more way we celebrate Fifth Third Day— May 3 or 5/3. We want to give back to 
our community— and promote savings from the earliest of ages. We partnered with 20 hospitals 
in Chicago to give new babies a gift card worth 
$1,053 to open a 529 account. We also gave the 
babies gift boxes that included a book about 
saving, a piggy bank, an abacus and a Born on 
Fifth Third Day onesie. The Fifth Third Day Babies 
program began last year in Cincinnati. 
“For babies born in 2018, the average estimated  
cost for four years of college tuition is from  
$300,000 to $600,000.  We know this can be  
overwhelming for new parents and this was  
one way we could get them started saving  
right away,” said Eric Smith, Fifth Third Chicago  
Region President. Special Feature 
 Making a Diference 
Our executive leadership and employees also serve 
on boards and as volunteers to ensure that our 
investments are improving lives in the communities 
we serve and bettering neighborhoods as a whole. 
In 2018, our employees volunteered over 142,583 
hours in the community. 
Additionally, we work to make a diference during 
times of crisis. In 2018, the Fifth Third Foundation 
made a $100,000 donation to the American Red 
Cross in the aftermath of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael. 
“I have seen frst-hand the destruction caused by 
Hurricane Florence,” said Stephanie Byrd, CEO 
of the American Red Cross of Cincinnati. “With 
their gift, Fifth Third helped restore hope and 
give much-needed relief to the residents of 
North Carolina and South Carolina.” 
We also are able to mobilize our resources quickly 
when disaster strikes and to get involved in relief 
eforts. In the aftermath of Hurricane Florence, for example, several of our fnancial centers in North 
Carolina served as collection points for community 
donations of supplies and items, including bottled 
water, bleach, mops, diapers, paper products, 
cleaning supplies, toiletries, baby supplies and 
non-perishable foods. 13CARE and Responsible Banking 
Care. It’s a word that denotes empathy and 
concern for other people, and that’s what made it a perfect acronym for a new customer experience initiative led by Fifth Third’s Chief Administrative Ofcer Teresa Tanner. The initiative is rooted in our commitment to keep our customers at the center of everything we do. No matter the type of interaction— in person, on the phone, online—we want to give customers an experience that’s a Fifth Third Better®, an experience that shows we care. 
CARE for everyday customer service stands for 
Curious, Accountable, Respectful and Empathetic. It’s a model for how employees resolve to treat people inside and outside of our organization. Since its ofcial launch last spring within the Operations division, employees have enthusiastically worked to put it into action. 
Jordan, a branch support specialist in our Operations  
Center, exemplifed CARE while working as fnancial  
center customer service representative. He had a  
regular customer with a hearing impairment who  
would communicate by writing down the transactions  
he wanted. On some occasions, completing the  
transactions was difcult because the pair couldn’t  
easily engage for questions and answers. Jordan took  
it upon himself to learn American Sign Language  
during his of hours. The face of his customer lit up at  
their next transaction, pleased with their new ability  
to communicate. Jordan had exemplifed the CARE  
model by respecting and acknowledging his customer. A new email service for employees called WeCare 
also grew out of the CARE movement. The service, launched companywide at the end of 2018, acknowledges that employees are approached frequently while of duty with questions about Bank processes or policies, or about customer issues. Friends, neighbors and others may not realize that the employee they’re asking does not have the answer they’re seeking: they just know the person works at Fifth Third. The new service allows the employee to help, even if the question lies outside the area of his or her expertise. WeCare invites employees to contact a special customer care team that will follow up and employ the CARE model to resolve any issues. The email service also enables employees to pass along compliments or notes of positive feedback. WeCare is a customer concierge hotline for employees to use when they want to help, but don’t know exactly where to turn. 
Being customer-centric is at the heart of our  
commitment to responsible banking. It’s the  
commitment we make to consumers to deliver best-
in-class fnancial products and services, and to provide  
access to those services whenever and wherever  
consumers want them. We are responsible for  
ensuring that our complete product and service suite  
is accessible to all consumers, in all markets, and that  
we’re ofering the right types of responsive products  
and services. We always will strive to act in the best  
interest of consumers by providing reasonably priced  
products, defning clear terms and disclosures and  
ofering fair and consistent service. By doing so, we  
can build lasting customer relationships and meet our  
responsibility to help them prosper. 
CARE FOR EVERYDAY CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Curious: Take time 
to understand the customer’s true needs. Accountable: Own what you do and say. Respectful: Respectthe person and the situation.  Empathetic: Show  
compassion and  
relate to the person’s  
thoughts and feelings. E R A C 
13 14 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR ReportKeep the Customer at the Center 
Building Better Businesses 
Small businesses are the lifeblood of economically  
vibrant and healthy communities. As they employ  
residents and supply products and services to meet  
the needs of our communities, we work hard to  
ensure the business environment is ripe for their  
success. We also are committed to entrepreneurs;  
to providing the training and technical support they  
need to start and grow their businesses. 
Small Business Lending and 
Technical Assistance 
Fifth Third is a U.S. Small Business Administration 
(SBA) lender. In 2018, our SBA lending was $113.6 
million. SBA loans ofer many benefts for small 
businesses, including fxed and variable interest 
rates with fexible terms, the ability to fnance 
loan closing costs and lower down payments on 
commercial real estate. 
We ofer many types of SBA lending options, 
including SBA Express Loans, which feature 
simpler application processes and faster approval 
than 7(a) general purposes loans. 
Last year, Chicago Business Banker Betsy Brace 
saw her commitment to two clients turn into a 
groundbreaking ceremony for a new healthcare 
business called Lake Immediate Care and Clinic, a 
medical practice that combines both primary and 
urgent care. The clinic is run by Dr. Ebere Ibe and 
Dr. Ebirim Reginald. 
The doctors were referred to Brace three years 
ago by the Island Lake Financial Center. During 
the initial phone call, Betsy learned of the doctors’ 
intent to purchase land and build a medical center 
to meet the needs of the community, which, at the 
time, didn’t have a primary care services provider. Special Feature 
Financing an Olympian’s Dreams 
Photo credit: Eileen Young 
Olympic Gold Medalist Dominique Moceanu was 
the youngest person to win Olympic gold with 
her teammates at the 1996 Summer Olympics 
in Atlanta. Dominique has been involved in 
gymnastics for over 30 years as a gymnast, coach, 
clinician, choreographer, mentor, camp owner 
and director. She has always wanted to open a 
gymnastics center to inspire children. In 2018, 
Dominique’s dream came true, thanks in large part 
to Fifth Third Small Business Community Lender 
Mary Santora. 
“I wanted to do whatever it took to help this 
Olympic gymnast fulfll her lifelong dream of 
opening of gymnastics center,” Mary said. That’s 
why she enlisted the help of Fifth Third’s Business 
Banking Relationship Manager Greg Turk. Together, Mary and Greg got to work with Dominique and 
their internal partners, and Dominique’s facility 
opened in Medina, Ohio, last summer. 
The facility ofers summer gymnastics camps for 
children, ages 6-18, and yoga for adults. Parents 
are able to take yoga while their children hone their 
gymnastics skills. Dominique works to develop the 
recreational aspect of the sport before connecting 
students with an appropriate competitive program.  
The Fifth Third team was able to provide an 
SBA 7(a) loan for the purchase of the building 
and improvements, an SBA (7a) for equipment 
fnancing and a home equity line of credit. 
Betsy assembled a cross-functional team of internal 
colleagues to listen and develop a road map to 
see the doctors through the purchase of the land, 
construction of their building and the start-up of their 
business. She helped facilitate a SBA 504 loan for real 
estate construction as well as equipment fnancing, a 
line of credit, depository and treasury management 
services. Although the process was long and often 
complex, Betsy said it’s why she loves her job. 
“This medical facility was a goal for the doctors 
and it serves a community of 8,000 people,” she 
said. “It’s one of the few that will serve any individual 
regardless of insurance, and it combines urgent and 
primary care, which means a patient can be seen for 
an emergency and then receive care for the rest of 
their life.” 
Brace expects to be there for Drs. Ibe and Reginald 
for the long-term. “My passion for their business 
means that I was there to pick up the phone when 
they frst called; when we put the shovel in the dirt 
for the groundbreaking with the village; when the 
architect came to fgure out where the doors could 
go. I was there when the contractor couldn’t fnd a 
place for the sewer and we worked it out together. I 
was there when the forist came to plant the fowers. I was there to make sure the x-ray equipment got into 
the right place.” 
As part of our commitment to the community, the 
role of small business community lender was created 
to focus on building relationships and providing 
resources to small entrepreneurs that often face 
trouble with access to capital. The Fifth Third team 
members in these roles assist small business owners 
and emerging entrepreneurs in achieving their 
fnancial goals by providing smart fnancial solutions 
for both personal and business needs. 
Fifth Third Regional President Eric Smith, Head of Business Banking Kala Gibson, and Civic 
Engagement Banking Executive Francia Harrington visit with a small business owner in Chicago. 
“The Small Business Community Lending team is a 
critical component of our outreach to underserved 
or under-banked small business owners in our communities,” said Kala Gibson, head of Business 
Banking. “And we support them through a variety of 
innovative programs and partnerships so that they 
have the tools they need to keep their customers at 
the center of everything they do.” 
15 16 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Keep the Customer at the Center 
Expanding Economic Opportunities 
In 2018, we continued our signifcant support of 
funds created to boost access to capital for small businesses. We have supported Entrepreneurs of Color Funds in both Detroit and Chicago, and last year, we were a founding partner in the creation of the Cincinnati Access Fund, which was designed to provide capital to small, minority- and women-owned businesses. We provided its initial capital of $1.2 million. We also underwrote the specialized technical services available through the Cincinnati Access Fund, something we do through our own programs and initiatives as well as through collaborations with other nonproft organizations. 
Community development fnancial institutions, or 
CDFIs, share a common goal of expanding economic opportunity in low-income communities by providing access to fnancial products and services for residents and businesses. We have signifcantly invested with CDFIs to boost small business growth in underserved communities within our geographic footprint. Our most signifcant work with CDFIs is represented by Accion, a global nonproft dedicated to creating a fnancially inclusive world. We have worked with Accion for several years providing over $1 million to the organization to support the lending and technical assistance it provides for underserved small business owners in Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Michigan and Ohio. We also fnancially support Accion’s in-person outreach with small business leaders and its online educational resources. 
In 2018, Accion provided loans and technical 
assistance to nearly 625 clients with an average loan size of approximately $10,500. According to Accion, these entrepreneurs are creating and retaining an average of three jobs per business, totaling an estimated 1,875 jobs in communities in need of economic activity. 
In September, Fifth Third and Accion together supported a Spanish speed coaching event in which entrepreneurs received advice on a variety of topics. 
Special Feature 
Accion Partnership Encourages Business Expansion 
Felipe Funderburg, owner of the Legendary Art 
Gallery, grew up on Chicago’s West Side, where he 
painted and drew at his mother’s kitchen table. As 
he grew, however, he gave up art when he didn’t see 
a future in it—or any artists in his neighborhood that 
looked like him.  
Felipe began hanging out with the wrong crowd, 
battling homelessness, and losing several cars to 
repossession. That’s when he was encouraged to try 
his hand at being a tattoo artist. He borrowed money 
to purchase an equipment kit and started training. 
There was a book that came with the equipment 
kit, Tattooing A to Z. I essentially taught myself with 
that book.” He practiced on family and, after a few 
months, started charging for his services. He tattooed 
in barbershops, a basement, and his apartment. In 
2007, Felipe opened his own shop, Tat2K, in Garfeld 
Park. Not just a tattoo parlor, Tat2K quickly became 
a place where Felipe could apprentice fve other 
emerging artists. Felipe boasts, “All the guys I taught 
are still tattooing to this day.” 
Despite the following Felipe had developed, owning a 
business was difcult in such a rough part of Chicago. In 2018, Felipe learned about Accion through the  
Artists were afraid to come to the studio, and at launching of the Entrepreneurs of Color Fund, a  
the time, the neighborhood was not conducive to fund that supports minority entrepreneur business  
economic growth. Felipe knew a change was needed, ventures and for which Fifth Third had provided  
a realization that came as he was rekindling his love seed money.  He went into his local Fifth Third Bank  
of painting. In 2016, Felipe decided to close his doors branch and met with Lionel Gomez. Felipe was  
in West Garfeld and look for a new space for a looking for working capital to maintain his gallery  
business that integrated painting, apprenticing and space, and while Fifth Third was unable to provide  
lifting up the community. assistance, our collaboration with Accion gave him  
Originally, Felipe had his heart set on Chicago’s Pilsen a second option. Lionel referred Felipe to Accion  
neighborhood, but his building funding fell through. Community Lender Tierra Bradford. “Tierra was  
He eventually rented instead and opened Legendary really interested in helping me out, even with my  
Art Gallery, an event space and artist studio that damaged credit,” says Felipe. “I defnitely want to  
hosts paint parties, poetry readings and community continue working with her so I can continue to grow  
art nights showcasing local artists. my business. It’s my passion.” “
17 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR ReportBuilding Stronger, 
Inclusive Communities 
18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
19Since our founding, Fifth Third has been 
committed to helping people achieve their 
best lives through responsible fnancial 
solutions that are right for individuals and 
the community. This legacy of support has 
confrmed for us that we are capable of 
improving lives and making generational, 
transformative impacts in the communities 
we serve. 
Our Community Reinvestment Act rating was 
“Outstanding” on our most recent exam (for the 
period of Jan. 1, 2014 through June 30, 2016). We 
are committed not only to maintaining our level 
of investment, lending and service, but also to 
increasing it as we move into the future. 
A proof point of that commitment is our public 
announcement of $30 billion—increased to $32 billion 
in 2018—to support comprehensive and innovative 
solutions to challenges facing our communities. 
These challenges include the increasing costs 
of housing and declining homeownership rates, 
especially in communities of color; diminished 
access to capital for small businesses seeking to 
start, grow and expand; and a gap in fnancial 
education and workforce development. 
Our work to address these critical areas has been 
intentional. We have leveraged research, incubated ideas and scaled successful program models. We are 
proud to share examples of how we are transforming 
communities—person by person, neighborhood 
by neighborhood and city by city. Through 
compassionate and inclusive lending, investments 
and services, we are working to create healthy, 
vibrant and economically-diverse communities. For 
us, it’s not about numbers or scores. It’s about doing 
what’s right for the people we serve; the people who 
entrust their dreams to us. 
“Every day we work with community 
partners as well as public and 
private sector organizations to make 
strategic investments to improve the 
fnancial health and sustainability 
of neighborhoods. We have driven 
deeply into the markets we serve, 
putting our hearts, our hands and our heads fully into our commitment. 
” 
— Byna Elliott 
Chief Corporate Community and 
Economic Development Ofcer 
COMMUNITY IMPACT FIGURES 
$246.0 M 1,800 $12.1 M $3.0 M 
CDC 
INVESTMENTS NEW HOMEOWNERS 
THROUGH DPA 
ASSISTANCE IN FIFTH THIRD 
FOUNDATION 
GRANTS IN STRENGTHENING 
OUR COMMUNITIES 
GRANTS 
19 20 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 Building Stronger, Inclusive Communities 
Progress Under Our $32 Billion Community Commitment 
We have delivered $20.3 billion under the fve-
year Community Commitment plan we developed in 2016. At that funding level, we are ahead of pace to deliver on our promise to communities in the areas of mortgage, small business and community development and investments. Our Community Commitment plan was created in consultation with the National Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC) and developed from insight gleaned from meetings with more than 200 community organizations. In 2018, we increased our $30 billion Commitment to $32 billion to refect our planned expansion in Chicago. The additional $2 billion will be invested entirely in Chicagoland and increases the Commitment there from $3.6 billion to $5.6 billion. The complete investment will be made within the timeframe of the original Commitment, which runs through 2020. 
$6.6 B $8.0 B $5.6 B 
$64.5 M 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
LENDING AND INVESTMENTS MORTGAGE 
LENDING SMALL BUSINESS 
LENDING 
PHILANTHROPIC 
DONATIONS Since 2016, Fifth Third has invested $20.3 
billion, or 68 percent of its total lending and investment commitment.* 
*68 percent refects percentage of $30 billion. The increase of the Commitment to $32 billion begins in 2019.  
21DRIVING CHANGE IN DETROIT  
Helping Lead the Urban Core’s Rebirth 
We are proud to be part of Detroit’s renaissance. 
In 2016, our Bank’s leadership took a bold step and 
relocated our regional headquarters from Southfeld 
to the iconic One Woodward Building downtown 
because we wanted a role in the city’s rebirth. In 
doing so, we joined our administrative functions with 
our six downtown Detroit banking centers. Since 
then, we have been able to grow by serving more 
businesses and consumers. More important, the move 
was a catalyst for others to follow. 
Advancing Inclusive Business Growth 
Our commitment to small business growth, including 
minority entrepreneurship, led to our $3 million 
investment in the Entrepreneurs of Color (EOC) 
Fund, a fund dedicated to closing the wealth, 
capital and credit gap. Administered by the Detroit 
Development Fund, the EOC Fund has grown from 
$6.5 million to more than $22 million by December 
2018. It’s a model that worked so well that we have 
made investments in similar funds in other market 
cities, including Chicago and Cincinnati.   
One of the major challenges Detroit has faced 
for several decades is urban blight and fight. We 
collaborated with the Detroit Land Bank Authority, 
the owner of tax-reverted properties in the city, on 
its Disposition and Buy Back program. The program 
enables occupants of properties owned by the land 
bank authority to gain ownership of the home in 
which they live. 
“We are taking the strategy that worked in 
Midtown and scaling it citywide to bring more development to neighborhoods, and now, with the help of our partners, we’re going to make sure the development is equitable and inclusive to all. 
” 
— Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan 
Krystal Spears 
Krystal Spears is one such resident. She was a renter 
whose landlord failed to pay the property taxes 
on her home in Southwest Detroit. A part of the 
“working poor,” Krystal had believed homeownership 
was beyond her reach—until the Buy Back program 
came along. She was able to purchase her home for 
$1,000 and enter into an agreement to pay at least 
$100 per month for one year to cover the property 
tax bill. The land bank authority estimates that it 
owns as many as 3,900 occupied properties. For 
hundreds of future homeowners like Krystal, Fifth 
Third holds the individual accounts for the monthly 
deposit. At year-end 2018, our collaboration with the 
Detroit Lank Bank Authority had helped convert 465 
residents into homeowners. 
In December 2018, we made a $5 million 
commitment to invest in the city’s eforts to 
revitalize 10 Detroit neighborhoods. We were 
one of seven companies to commit $5 million to 
fund physical improvements to parks, streetscapes, 
commercial corridors, single family housing and 
afordable housing in the next fve years. We will be 
deploying our $5 million Fifth Third Foundation grant 
to adopt a specifc neighborhood area in Detroit, 
which will be announced in 2019. 
21 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
22Building Stronger, Inclusive Communities 
DRIVING CHANGE IN DETROIT continued... 
In our most recent community assessment, 
58 percent of respondents called the lack of 
afordable housing a major concern. The Fifth 
Third Community Development Corporation (CDC), 
a wholly-owned, indirect subsidiary of Fifth Third 
Bancorp, invests in places that people call home. 
One such investment was Alfred Brush Park, new 
construction of rental housing in the historic district 
of Brush Park, Detroit. The development provided 
54 new afordable housing units for seniors. The 
investment helped provide much-needed afordable 
housing in an area where afordable housing has been steadily declining. Further, the neighborhood 
ofers access to jobs and the region’s highest concentration of economic, educational, cultural and entertainment assets. 
Financing the American Dream 
A 2017 report by the Urban Institute lists down 
payments as the primary barrier to homeownership. 
According to the report, 53 percent of renters cite 
saving for a down payment as an obstacle, and 80 
percent of consumers are unaware of how much 
lenders require for a down payment or believe all lenders require a down payment above 5 percent.
1 These statistics confrmed what our own customers 
were telling us. By providing up to $3,600 in 
assistance, our down payment assistance (DPA) 
program—launched in 2017—has helped over 1,800 
customers achieve the goal of owning their own home. 
“I have always dreamed of purchasing a home where 
my kids can play in the backyard,” said Ken White, 
a married father of four in eastern Michigan. “But 
saving for a down payment was hard. I was paying 
about $900 in rent each month and working to feed and clothe my family. I always seemed to fall short.” 
Detroit Loan Specialist Priscilla Hampton was able 
to get Ken and his family into the home of their 
dreams through the $3,600 DPA beneft and another grant program. “It was truly a pleasure to sit at the 
closing table with Ken as his dream was coming true,” 
Priscilla said. “This is what we do. We overcome 
obstacles and push forward in supporting the 
American dream.” 
The White family has a new home in Detroit thanks, in part, to Fifth Third’s down payment assistance program. 
1. The Urban Institute’s Barriers to Accessing Homeownership Down Payment, Credit, and Afordability Report, November 2017. 
https:/ /www.urban.org/sites/default/fles/publication/94801/barriers_to_accessing_homeownership_1.pdf 
22 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23Creating Paths to Financial Well-Being 
One of the ways we serve Detroit communities is 
by driving our Financial Empowerment Mobiles, or eBuses, directly to them. A Detroit eBus tour in 2018 reached more than 15,000 people and provided services like job search training and credit counseling, and through collaborations with local nonprofts, services like youth dental visits. Our eBus visited 80 sites in Detroit and surrounding areas. 
Financial and Health Empowerment Tour 
Sites 80 
People Helped 15,408 
Job Training 208 
Credit Counseling Sessions 460 
Customer Service Support 208 
We also deliver comprehensive fnancial empowerment programs to people at all ages and stages. The Fifth Third Finance Academy is one such program. In its frst full year, Finance Academy educated over 8,000 high school students in Detroit, representing 16,580 hours of learning. Additionally, $2,500 scholarships were awarded to two Finance Academy students in Detroit last year. 
Fifth Third and NextJob collaborated with the NAACP in Detroit to ofer job training services. 
We also launched our workforce development program with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) last year. In May, Fifth Third sponsored the Detroit Branch NAACP Career Fair. Our Human Capital team was on hand to discuss career opportunities at Fifth Third and job coaches from NextJob, a national reemployment company, met with over 200 individuals to assist with interview readiness. We have collaborated with NextJob for many years, bringing job search and training services to customers at risk of foreclosure and to others looking for their next career. 
We further leveraged our collaboration with 
NextJob to create weekly Job Club meetings at the NAACP branch, including eight weeks of meetings with NAACP staf. The Job Club provided career resources and training each week. Tamara, a NextJob participant from Michigan, was grateful for the career advice she received. “NextJob provided me with a job coach who supported me every step of the way, encouraged me to take on challenges and helped me build my confdence.” 
Nicholas Martinez of Chavez High School won a $2,500 Fifth Third Finance Academy scholarship 
in 2018. He said, “The Finance Academy course savings module has had a very positive impact on my life. It showed me many things, including how to save up money myself, providing fne examples of how to save and even videos with descriptive examples.” 
Cussandra McAfee, wholesale client advisor in eastern Michigan, is ready to greet community members on our eBus. 
23 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24Building Stronger, Inclusive Communities 
INCLUSIVE GROWTH IN CINCINNATI 
Revitalizing Neighborhoods in the Queen City 
Cincinnati has undergone a renaissance of its own in 
recent years, with developments in places like The 
Banks, a large swath of downtown land that includes 
several professional sports stadiums along the Ohio 
River. Today, The Banks is teeming with restaurants, 
entertainment and sports activities, as well as a family-
friendly urban park. The city also has seen revitalization 
in its central business district—where Fifth Third’s 
headquarters is located on Fountain Square—and 
north into the area known as Over-the-Rhine. 
The Fifth Third CDC is an important part of the 
renaissance. Since its inception in 1989, the CDC has 
invested more than $4 billion in communities the 
Bank serves, including funding over 700 projects 
that focus on afordable housing, commercial, retail, 
ofce and historic buildings; and the creation or 
preservation of over 60,000 units of housing. In 
2018, the CDC closed fve investments representing 
$56.3 million in Cincinnati. It also announced a $5 
million investment in the Cincinnati Development 
Fund to further housing redevelopment in 
underserved neighborhoods. 
Through the years, the CDC has partnered with 
the Community Development Fund on several 
projects, including the renovation of the Sanctuary 
at St. Michael’s complex in Cincinnati’s Lower Price 
Hill. The renovations involved fve historic structures 
and more than 46,000 square feet of classroom 
and event space. The renovation helped programs aimed at ending poverty in the community, including: an English language program for immigrants and 
refugees; Opportunity Hub, a space for residents to 
connect with jobs, housing and other opportunities; 
and Community Market, a food pantry. 
Also in 2018, the Fifth Third CDC joined with the Ohio 
Capital Corporation for Housing to celebrate the 
grand opening of the Abington, Race and Pleasant 
project in Over-the-Rhine. Fifth Third was a tax 
investor in the historical renovation project, in which 
fve vacant and blighted buildings were turned into 
afordable housing and commercial space.  
 The Fifth Third CDC was able to join with its partners and community members for the ribbon 
cutting of the Abington, Race and Pleasant project in Over-the-Rhine in Cincinnati. 
Our Bank, along with the city of Cincinnati and Local 
Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC), announced 
in 2018 the launch of the Cincinnati Access Fund, a 
$3.5 million loan fund that will provide access to 
capital and ongoing support and technical assistance 
for minority- and women-owned small businesses 
in Cincinnati. We were proud to provide the Fund’s 
initial capital of $1.2 million, to underwrite the 
specialized support services and to make referrals to 
the Fund.  
“I want nothing more than to grow my business,” said 
Taren Kinebrew, chief executive ofcer of Sweet 
Petit Desserts in Cincinnati’s historic Over-the-Rhine 
neighborhood. “The Cincinnati Access Fund creates 
the opportunity to purchase the bakery equipment I 
need to manage production and expand my business 
without being at a fnancial disadvantage. This Fund 
is important because small businesses like mine 
often have trouble securing small-scale loans.” 
Kathy Lamb-Tyler, owner of In God’s Hands, an early 
education and childcare center, agreed. “I now have 
the possibility of developing my business with the 
Cincinnati Access Fund. This matters not just to me, 
but to all the people I serve—the kids and their families 
and our community in Kennedy Heights and beyond.” 
24 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report  
 
25Making Houses Homes 
We believe homeownership is critical to the 
stabilization and revitalization of neighborhoods. Cincinnati residents were able to realize the dream of owning their own home with careful planning and assistance from a series of Fifth Third Empower U® sessions ofered in partnership with The Cincinnati Herald. These “Owning It” seminars helped prepare potential homebuyers for the mortgage process. 
Our Mortgage Loan Ofcer Robert Norris worked 
with a potential homeowner who needed to establish a credit score before attempting to buy a house. Robert got her a secured card product to work on her credit and then got her prequalifed for a loan using our down payment assistance program. To cover the remaining loan closing costs, he helped the customer set up a savings account. Our DPA program cut her closing costs by half. Likewise, another mortgage loan ofcer, Natasha Sizemore, was able to get a single mother into a new home with only $188 due at closing, thanks to DPA and a county grant. Collaborating to Create Opportunities 
Our team members met with over 3,000 local residents at 15 eBus tour stops coordinated last year with organizations like Santa Maria Community Services, Hamilton County Community Action Agency and Talbert House. Our eBus also was present at the American Heart Association Expo and Half Marathon in March. During the two-day event, our employee volunteers assisted more than 300 people. Companywide, our eBuses were present at 232 event days and served over 19,000 people in 2018. 
We also delivered Fifth Third Finance Academy 
courses on fnancial education and entrepreneurship to more than 5,800 students in Cincinnati last year and a student from Anderson High School won a $2,500 Finance Academy scholarship to help fnance her college education. Additionally, we ofered Young Bankers Club®, Fifth Third Empower U® and SmartPath programs, all fnancial education courses in our suite of Fifth Third L.I.F.E. programs for kids ages 10 to adults. 
Small business owners Taren Kinebrew (second from left) and Kathy Lamb-Tyler (second from right) celebrated the launch of the Cincinnati Access Fund with representatives of Fifth Third and 
Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley (far right). In addition, Fifth Third awarded $5,300 to each business owner. 
25 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26Building Stronger, Inclusive Communities 
CREATING CONNECTIONS IN FLORIDA 
Community Growth in the Sunshine State 
Our presence in Florida dates back to 1991 when 
we opened our frst branch in Naples. Today, our 
employees serve customers in the state through 
153 branches. We have been in Florida through major 
weather events and the real estate crisis and continue 
to make strategic investments of time, money and 
people to improve lives in a state that 24 million people 
call home. 
According to The Florida Scorecard™, metrics 
important to Florida’s economy compiled by the 
Florida Chamber of Commerce, the number of 
students in Florida receiving free and reduced lunch 
is at 60 percent and increasing. And the number of 
homeless children is just shy of 70,000. These facts 
make the Fifth Third Summer of Dreams program, an 
initiative we’ve funded and delivered for more than 
seven years, critical to the quality of life of Florida kids. 
For homeless children, summer break is anything but 
a vacation. Without the stability of school, thousands 
of school-aged children make up Florida’s homeless 
population. They move frequently—living with friends, 
in shelters, motels, cars… or even on the street. When’s 
school’s not in session, they lose access to a safe 
environment, engaging activities, and resources like the 
free and reduced lunch program, which provides many 
their only two meals of the day. To fll this need, Fifth Third partners with Orlando 
After School All-Stars for Summer of Dreams, a 
comprehensive 10-week program for K-12 homeless 
students in Central Florida. Fifth Third invests 
$45,000 per year for the annual program, which 
provides two free meals and snacks each day, 
weekend food packs, enriching academic activities, 
feld trips, tutoring and mentoring, fnancial 
empowerment, a backpack of school supplies and 
more. More than 1,100 students a year participate 
in the program at 36 sites in Orange, Seminole and 
Osceola counties. Over the last seven years, we have 
supported Summer of Dreams through charitable 
giving, volunteer service and community partnerships 
and helped over 9,000 students. 
We also made investments that support 
entrepreneurship and small business growth in Florida. 
We supported Florida Gulf Coast University’s growth 
acceleration and new market development initiatives; 
Prospera, formerly the Hispanic Business Initiative 
Fund, of Florida’s technical assistance program; 
University of South Florida Foundation’s Florida Small 
Business Development Center; and the Urban League 
of Broward County’s Entrepreneurship Center. 
Fifth Third Bank, the city of Orlando, and public and private partners flled over 1,100 backpacks with notebooks, pencils, rulers and other school supplies during the eighth annual Summer of Dreams 
backpack stufng event. The backpacks will be donated to at-risk students participating in the 10-week Summer of Dreams program. “It’s so important that every child show up to school with the supplies that they need and feel good about the frst day of school,” Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer said. 
26 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27Making Homes Afordable 
We have collaborated with the Florida Minority 
Community Reinvestment Coalition to increase low- and moderate-income homeownership through a Rental Homeownership program in the state. The program provides high-quality, afordable housing to low- and moderate-income families at reduced rental rates. It then provides homeownership training to the family and enables them to be pre-qualifed for a home loan within 24 months. The program produces an afordable rental housing model that provides a viable road to homeownership. 
Our DPA program has also made an impact in the 
state of Florida. Tracy Carter, a mortgage loan ofcer in central Florida, said her customer, Quinn, had dreamed of homeownership for quite a while despite his young age. Unfortunately, Quinn had only minimal funds for a down payment. Our program reduced his closing costs to just $1,300. “Our DPA program left him with enough money to purchase furnishings for his new home. I’m so proud that, through the DPA program, Fifth Third can give back to the communities that need it most.” 
In 2018, the Fifth Third CDC closed two investments 
in Florida representing $18.9 million. One of those investments was in Los Altos Apartments, the new construction of 100 afordable units for families in unincorporated Osceola County, Florida. Residents will have a community room, computer lab and business center and swimming pool. The project represents our commitment to providing afordable housing in safe neighborhoods and providing for amenities and social services to advance the lives of those who live there.  
Fifth Third employees volunteered at Second Harvest Food Bank in May last year to help feed 
the hungry. 
Bank employees in Ft. Myers volunteered with the Salvation Army. 
Through our Strengthening Our Communities Fund, 
we made $250,000 in housing-related grants in Florida. The Florida Community Loan Fund (FCLF) received $50,000. “The grant will help lead $15 million in direct fnancing by FCLF,” said Ignacio Esteban, chief executive ofcer. “Our fnancing creates decent, safe and afordable housing for low-income residents. We thank Fifth Third for supporting our vision that every person in every community in Florida deserves the opportunity to live with dignity.” We also supported the Central Florida Urban League’s Meet the Bankers program. Meet the Bankers provides homebuyer education and one-on-one fnancial consultations with prospective homebuyers. 
Modeling Change through Service 
Fifth Third has an ongoing sponsorship relationship with the Tampa Tarpons minor league baseball team. Each year, the Tarpons host an education day with the Hillsborough County School District in which students and teachers can attend the game for free. We provided Fifth Third Finance Academy lessons between the frst and sixth innings of the game to 3,000 students, most of whom receive free or reduced lunch. In addition to those we reached at the Tampa Tarpons game, 22,136 Florida students took Finance Academy courses in 2018. 
Employees in Florida also worked hard on Fifth 
Third Day (5/3 on the calendar) to feed the hungry throughout the state. Together, they volunteered nearly 635 hours by partnering with agencies like the Salvation Army, Second Harvest Food Bank, Feeding Northeast Florida and Lehigh Community Services. In all, the efort helped deliver 101,000 meals across the state. 
27 28 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Building Stronger, Inclusive Communities 
Expanding Capacity with Leaders 
We committed to millions of dollars of impact 
programming through our Community Commitment. 
This work is done through partners all across our 
footprint, organizations that are critical to the 
health and vitality of communities. As they face 
new challenges, we see it as our responsibility to 
invest in them—in their leadership, especially— 
to accelerate their problem-solving capabilities, 
innovation and collaboration. 
One of the reasons we do this is to support their 
education. In 2018, nearly 40 housing professionals 
completed a Rental Housing Development Finance class ofered through Fifth Third and the National 
Development Council (NDC), and received their 
housing certifcations. We were proud to cover all the 
expenses for the fve-day course, which was open to 
high-performing real estate professionals throughout 
our core 10-state footprint. 
“The chronic shortage of afordable housing 
nationwide increases the need for well-trained nonproft developers, but these professionals 
often lack the resources needed to build their organizational and personal capacity to bring 
projects to fruition,” said Daniel Marsh, III, president 
and CEO, National Development Council. “Fifth 
Third’s support for NDC’s training in Cincinnati and 
Detroit helped to bridge this training gap and will 
pay dividends in the form of increased housing production and quality of life in these deserving 
communities for decades to come.” Better Working Together 
Over 150 non-proft organizations have received funding and assistance through our Strengthening Our Communities Fund over the past two years, $3 million of which was delivered in 2018. Our fund enables us to positively afect communities through strategic philanthropic partnerships that align with our community impact focus priorities and Community Reinvestment Act objectives. Last year, the fund: 
• Granted $1.2 million to help entrepreneurs grow their business and create jobs. 
• Impacted over 2,000 people through neighborhood revitalization projects. 
• Provided over 8,500 people with workforce development and fnancial education services. 
• Helped 4,870 people through economic development programs like technical assistance and small business micro-lending. 
• Granted $700,000 to support afordable housing. 
• Funded $1.1 million in fnancial empowerment programs. 
• Made grant awards to nearly 80 organizations. 
A team of Columbus employees helped kick of the Salvation Army’s Red Kettle Campaign during the holidays in 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Kids were able to attend summer camps thanks, in part, to the Fifth Third CDC. 
Our employees increased the impact of our dollars 
through their willingness to volunteer in communities and with various nonproft organizations. In 2018, our employees reported over 145,000 volunteer hours. Our team members helped feed the hungry, turn houses into homes, and walked and ran to raise funds for groups focused on health, the arts and inclusion. 
In 2018, the Fifth Third CDC committed $202,417 
in funding through a partnership with Ohio Capital Corporation for Housing to provide summer camp opportunities for 320 youth residing in afordable housing developments. The CDC’s funds were used at 10 camps in Akron, Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio, as well as Paris, Kentucky. The CDC was proud to invest in these camps because evidence shows that learning loss results in cumulative reversals in academic progress, especially for children from households with low incomes, who relative to their more afuent peers, have less access to summer enrichment opportunities. Fifth Third Foundation 
Founded in 1948, the Fifth Third Foundation was one of the frst corporate philanthropic foundations established by a fnancial institution. In 2018, the Foundation awarded $12.1 million in grants in the areas of arts and culture, education, civic and community, and health and human services. 
The Foundation made a $250,000 grant to the 
Cincinnati USA Regional Chamber Foundation to support the return of a city-wide arts showcase, Blink, to Cincinnati in 2019. It made education grants to the Children First Fund for fnancial education in Chicago Public Schools and to Florida A&M University for a college-aged Finance Academy program. Civic and community grants included $50,000 to the Dayton Metro Library for its Career Adventures Camp and $50,000 to the Anthony Munoz Foundation for Hispanic Character Camp.  Health and human services  grants included a signifcant gift to St. Elizabeth Medical Center to help combat the opioid crisis and $50,000 to The Shield, Inc., to support police ofcers and their families for ofcers injured, disabled or killed in the line of duty. 
Strengthening Our Communities grant recipients in Detroit pose with Fifth Third leadership. 
29 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR ReportBe Respectful 
and Inclusive 
30 Fifth Third Bank is committed to inclusion 
and diversity. Through the work of our 
inclusion councils and business resource 
groups (BRGs), this comes to life in 
the communities we serve and in our 
workplace. In addition to operating 10 
inclusion councils and 69 local BRGs, 
our senior leaders also lead eight virtual 
enterprise BRGs, which are groups that 
all employees can participate in virtually 
regardless of work location. 
Our BRGs are open to all Fifth Third employees, 
and in July 2018, we launched our Ally program to 
encourage employees who are allies of individual 
BRGs to join them and become involved with their 
missions. It was formalized frst with the LGBT+ BRG. 
The Fifth Third Women’s BRG sponsored the Women 4 Women luncheon in Louisville in 
October, 2018. The keynote speaker was Elizabeth Smart, an American child safety activist and contributor for ABC News, who was an abduction survivor. Women 4 Women and its donors improve the lives of women and girls in Metro Louisville through education, advocacy and focused grant-making. 
The LGBT+ Business Resource Group participated in the PRIDE parade in North Carolina in 2018 and employees carried signs saying, “Everyone deserves to live a Fifth Third Better®.” Even the Fifth Third Fee Shark made an appearance. 
“I didn’t even fully realize that I was an ally of the 
LGBT+ community until I attended an Ohio Diversity 
Council event earlier last year,” said Cherelle 
Houston, lead customer service representative in 
Maple Heights, Ohio. “I know people in the LGBT+ 
community, and I’m a confdante and supporter, so I 
joined the BRG to show that support.” 
Caroline Hughes, senior decision scientist in Cincinnati, felt the same when she joined the Bank 
last summer. “It’s necessary to have a diverse group 
within all BRGs who support one another. Not 
everyone within a BRG should be the same.” 
Caroline has been working with the Cincinnati LGBT+ 
BRG to bring members from other BRGs together, 
including the Women’s and Young Professionals 
BRGs, through lunch roulette sessions and executive 
speaker panels to enable the diferent BRGs to 
network and learn from each other. 
In addition to the LGBT+ ally program, we have 
encouraged new allies to join other regional BRGs 
locally and Enterprise BRGs virtually to show their 
support and to further their own development. 
Fifth Third Bank BRGs 
31 31 
MIDDLE EASTERN 
Business Resour ce Group 32 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Be Respectful and Inclusive 
We salute those who serve our country, and in 2018, 
we were proud to introduce new paid military leave 
guidelines to support our employees who serve in 
the uniformed services.  The update to our guidelines 
was initiated by an employee who had faced fnancial 
challenges due to his military leave. 
“There was a period when I went without pay for six 
weeks,” said Michael Routzon, reservist, ofcer and “Our new guidelines provide for 30 days of paid Business Controls analyst. “My past employers had military leave per year, and by comparison, the paid military leave, and I knew we could help close government ofers only 15 days of paid military the gap for other people who were in the same leave annually,” Michael said. “Not only that, our new situation as me.” guidelines provide paid leave for any kind of military 
AJ Jessen, Treasury Management client leave, including drills or training, not just active duty 
implementations manager and reservist, had a like many companies ofer.” 
similar experience missing several paychecks while “The fact that we could impact this change shows the on military leave. “The decision was to not get paid value of our BRGs,” said Greg Chow, vice president, at all or use vacation time that I otherwise would principal business analyst and Cincinnati’s Military have used to spend time with my family,” AJ said. “I BRG co-chair. “By bringing the BRG members to the believed we could do better.” table, we collectively could express the hardships 
Military Business Resource Group members, including faced by military members, provide alternatives 
Michael and AJ, joined a focus group to talk about based on examples from other companies and 
our guidelines and ways they could be improved, industries, and connect with the right team in Human 
perhaps even beyond what other companies ofer. Capital to make a real diference.” Special Feature 
Military BRG Spurs New Paid Military Leave Guidelines 
Project SEARCH 
We have invested signifcant time and resources 
in being a supportive and dedicated company 
for people with developmental and/or physical 
disabilities. We were a founding member of 
the Project SEARCH program, a school-to-work 
transition program for students that provides three 
rotating internships at major corporations and often 
leads to gainful employment. 
Project SEARCH is now run in three Fifth Third 
locations: the downtown and Madisonville campuses 
in Cincinnati and in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In 
addition to Fifth Third, Project SEARCH is operated at 
more than 600 sites worldwide. In 2018, we worked 
with 27 interns at Fifth Third. We have educated 325 
people through Project SEARCH since 2005, and are proud of the 31 Project SEARCH graduates who are members of our Bank team. Each year, we sponsor a Tee Of for Project SEARCH 
golf outing to raise funds for the program. In 2018, we 
raised $130,000, which brings the total we’ve raised 
through the years to $1.5 million. 
Fifth Third’s Tee Of for Project SEARCH golf outing in 2018 helped raise $130,000 for the 
school-to-work transition program for individuals with physical and/or developmental disabilities. Fifth Third operates three Project SEARCH campuses.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Special Feature 
Abe Homann-Hubbard is the son of Fifth Third’s Kristin Cole. She says that Fifth Third’s support 
has meant the world to her since learning that her son could be born with Down syndrome. 
We also care deeply about our employees who have 
family members with special needs. It was a concern 
that became real for Fifth Third Team Member 
Kristin Cole last year. Kristin works for the Fifth Third 
Private Bank and is a member of the Individuals with Disabilities BRG. She became a member of the BRG 
while she was pregnant with her second child. 
“When I was 24 weeks pregnant with my son, Abe, my 
fancé and I found out there was a good chance he’d 
be born with Down syndrome,” Kristin said. “One of 
the frst things I remembered was the day my team 
spent volunteering at Redwood, an organization that 
provides educational, therapeutic and vocational 
services to individuals with disabilities. That had 
been one of the best days of my life. I couldn’t have known at the time, but Fifth Third had provided an 
experience that gave me confdence to successfully 
parent a child with a disability.”   
“Abe is pure joy and the light of our lives,” Kristin 
beamed. “His potential is unlimited. The evidence of 
that is everywhere—even at work—because I’m part 
of a company that employs and values people with 
disabilities. I love passing through the hallways at 
work and seeing fellow employees, some of whom 
have Down syndrome. There’s no greater evidence 
than that of working for a company that cares.” 
Abe’s frst year has involved multiple doctor visits and 
consultations with specialists. “Fifth Third has been 
so good to me. Whenever I need to take time of to 
be there with him, I am encouraged to go without hesitation. I always appreciated that Fifth Third cares 
for its employees and their wellness, but you don’t 
necessarily feel it until you’re in a situation that sees it 
in action.”  
33 Project SEARCH Grads 
Celebrate 12 Years with Fifth Third Bank 
Five Project SEARCH interns are celebrating 12 years with Fifth Third. 
Since 2005, Fifth Third Bank’s Project SEARCH 
program has provided interactive learning 
opportunities to 325 students. Five interns who 
started in our inaugural year remain with the 
Bank  today, more than a dozen years later: Esther  
Ahn,  operations general ofce clerk; Collin Biddle,  
investor specialist; Evan Denenberg,  CFR fle-
document specialist; Sarah Kayes,  receptionist;  and  
Nathan Michelson,  CFR fle-document specialist. 
They started in the program on our Madisonville  
campus in Cincinnati, where they received  
training and education to prepare them for  
gainful employment.  
Todd Reese, vice president and Bancorp collateral  
operations manager, was one of the frst managers  
to host a Project SEARCH intern in his department.  
“I was fortunate to have had the opportunity to  
hire Nathan, the frst person coming out of the  
program in 2005. Both my work life and personal  
life have been enriched by everyone I’ve met—from  
teachers to interns and their parents, to facilitators  
and job coaches.”  
“I have been a champion for this program since 
the beginning, and it is one of the reasons I’m 
so proud to work here,” said Paul Moore, senior 
vice president and division head of Operations. 
“In addition to the success of our employees who 
have graduated from the program, I am also proud 
of the employees who have worked side-by-side 
with our Project SEARCH participants for the 
beneft of our business.” 34 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report
 
 
 Be Respectful and Inclusive 
Talent Diversity 
We are committed to talent diversity at every level 
of our Company, from our Board of Directors to 
our Executive Team to our over 18,000 employees. 
We are also committed to publishing our diversity 
demographic data, a practice we started with the 
2016 CSR Report. 
In 2018, Board members Jerry W. Burris, President 
and CEO of Midwest Can and Container Specialties 
Company, and Jewell D. Hoover, retired senior ofcial 
with the Ofce of the Comptroller of the Currency, were named to the Black Enterprise 2018 Registry of 
African American Corporate Directors. Our executive 
team also includes three women of color who lead teams integral to our success: Byna Elliott, senior 
vice president and chief corporate community and 
economic development ofcer, Phenise Poole, senior 
vice president and deputy general counsel, and 
Saema Somalya, senior vice president and deputy 
general counsel. Congratulations, 
on being named to the Black Enterprise 
2018 Registry of African American 
Corporate Directors. 
Jerry W. Burris 
President and CEO of Midwest Can 
and Container Specialties Company 
Fifth Third Bancorp Board Member 
Jewell D. Hoover 
Retired Senior Ofcial with the Ofce 
of the Comptroller of the Currency 
Fifth Third Bancorp Board Member 
Byna Elliott 
Senior Vice President 
and Chief Corporate 
Community 
and Economic 
Development Ofcer 
Phenise Poole 
Senior Vice President 
and Deputy General 
Counsel, Employment 
Saema Somalya 
Senior Vice President 
and Deputy General 
Counsel, Corporate Demographic Information as of 12/31/18 
Women People of 
Color 
Board of Directors 33.3% 25.0% 
Exec/Senior Managers 25.2% 11.2% 
First/Mid-level Managers 51.6% 17.6% Professionals 51.3% 16.7% 
All Others** 69.2% 31.7% 
Total 60.1% 24.6% 
**Source: Dec. 31, 2018, employee data produced in a manner consistent with EEO-1 reporting with 
aggregation across EEO-1 ethnicity categories. “All Others” is a combination of the following EEO-1 job categories: sales workers and administrative support.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Special Feature 
Q&A with Board Member Jorge L. Benitez 
Q. Why is a diverse board important for corporations? 
“Diversity, whether it is at the Board, part of 
management or at a general team level, is about 
making better decisions by including multiple perspectives and experiences. Teams comprised of people with diverse backgrounds are better able to 
evaluate opportunities and solve problems. Gender, 
racial and ethnic diversity are important elements 
that shape who we are and how we think. When you 
consider multiple views, you develop better solutions.” 
Q. How has your background prepared you for your 
role as a member of Fifth Third’s Board? 
“I came to the United States at the age of 10 as a  
political refugee from Cuba. I didn’t speak a word  
of English when I started attending school near  
Jorge Benitez, retired chief executive ofcer of Cleveland, and my sister and I experienced the same  
Accenture-North America, has served on the Fifth difculties faced by so many other immigrants and  
Third Board of Directors since May 2015. He has minorities—mispronounced names, ridicule over  
extensive experience developing and executing our accents and difculties navigating a diferent  
business strategies across a range of industries, culture. But, in the long run, I learned to understand  
particularly air, freight and travel and transportation and value cultural diferences, and this skill has been  
services. He also possesses vast executive experience critical to my professional success and my ability  
running operating units within a large multinational, to contribute to Fifth Third’s Board. The power of  
publicly-traded corporation. He recently shared his diversity lies in having everyone feel valued, which  
thoughts on the importance of Board diversity. enables them to contribute.” 
Multicultural Recruitment 
Our Company took great strides in 2018 to further implement our multicultural college recruitment strategy. The strategy is an important part of our $32 billion Community Commitment, helping to build not only stronger communities, but also a stronger bank. 
Led by Hosetta Coleman, senior manager of university 
relations, our multicultural college recruiting strategy works to establish relationships with multiple colleges to recruit, hire and retain the best and brightest students. As part of our strategy, we have deepened our relationships with traditional colleges as well as Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) as a way to strengthen the pipeline of diverse talent. The strategy also emphasizes internships and long-term employment through leadership programs. 
Fifth Third’s Danielle Jones, a FAMU graduate in 2005, was part of the team that traveled to 
campus as part of the Bank’s HBCU strategy to recruit African-American talent. She is pictured with FAMU President Dr. Larry Johnson. 
35 36 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 Be Respectful and Inclusive 
While we have worked to deepen our partnerships 
at universities such as the University of Cincinnati, 
Xavier University and Miami University, all in Ohio, 
we have also worked to foster relationships with 
fve HBCUs: Central State University (CSU), Florida 
A&M University (FAMU), Johnson C. Smith University, 
Wilberforce University and Tennessee State University 
(TSU). The HBCUs were selected based on their 
location within our Consumer Bank footprint, our leaders’ board involvement and the number of 
students we’ve hired through the years from those schools. The schools’ strong business and science, 
engineering, technology and math programs also 
were noted for developing the kind of talent that would excel at Fifth Third. 
“This strategy is important because we want to 
ensure that we are refective of our customer base,” 
Hosetta said. “Strategies like this also help us add 
diversity of thought and improve our ability to 
serve all.” 
Last spring, Hosetta and a team of recruiters traveled 
to FAMU to recruit business and computer science 
students. At TSU, they hosted a job fair and fnancial 
literacy activities. They also hosted a reception and 
tour for CSU students at the Madisonville Operations 
Center in Cincinnati. In the fall, they traveled back to 
FAMU to launch a collegiate version of Fifth Third Finance Academy, and CSU became the inaugural HBCU to receive job coaching through our NextJob 
program. Our Community and Economic Development 
team supports the multicultural recruitment strategy through scholarship dollars to students at the core 
colleges to assist them with their educational needs. Engagement and Wellness 
One of the primary ways we support health and 
wellness is through our annual support of United 
Way. In 2018, our employees and the Fifth Third 
Foundation combined to raise over $7 million for 
United Way agencies. Our team members also 
engaged in activities ranging from walks and 
poverty simulations, and to volunteer work at local non-proft organizations. 
We are committed to participating in one company-
wide health and wellness initiative each year to ofer 
employees an opportunity to work together toward 
a common wellness goal. In 2018, all employees were 
invited to start down the path to good heart health 
by participating in a “Pass the Baton” Walk, which kicked of on Go Red Day on Feb. 2. Each employee had a designated time to start and fnish the walks 
and many employee teams walked at their ofce 
location, around their local fnancial center and in the 
community. The fnal leg of the baton concluded with 
the American Heart Association’s 41st annual Heart 
Mini Marathon in Cincinnati on March 18. Fifth Third’s 
Chief Human Capital Ofcer Bob Shafer served as 
the chair of the 2018 Heart Mini. 
Bank executives connected with African American leadership development students at a meet-and-greet luncheon in the Summer of 2018. 
Special Feature 
Team Member Finishes United Way Walk after Lupus Diagnosis 
For the fourth consecutive year, our employees in 
Cincinnati organized “United We Walk,” a walk held 
at our Madisonville campus. The walk is designed to 
raise funds for United Way and to encourage good 
health. Last year, the walk took on a new level of 
importance when an employee, devastated by a life-
threatening diagnosis of lupus, made completion of 
the walk a major goal during his treatment. 
A former football player for Thomas More College,  
Ronnie Williams was diagnosed with systemic lupus  
erythematosus in April 2017. It started with pain in  
his left leg, which was later discovered to be a blood  
clot. His brain swelled and his body flled with fuid. He  
sufered a stroke and became unresponsive before a  
team of 10 specialists diagnosed him. At the time, he’d  
been employed with Fifth Third for only a few weeks. 
His mom, Roshelle Williams, is also a Bank employee. 
“Fifth Third was ready to accommodate Ronnie and Fifth Third team member Roshelle Williams hugs her son, Ronnie Williams, as he  
kept him on short-term disability,” she said. “They completes a walk doctors told him he might not live to see. 
kept his income streaming, which helped me with 
our household. I was missing time, too, because he “I made the race a goal of mine because I’m a big 
needed me. Our management was outstanding and supporter of United Way, and I really wanted to 
helped in every way possible.” prove what I was capable of in terms of completing 
Ronnie is a fghter. He spent over two months in the walk and showing the people I care for most 
Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati and then time how far along I’ve really come,” Ronnie said. 
rehabilitating from the stroke. “Every time I saw While he was fnishing the walk—one that doctors 
him, I’d whisper in his ears how loved he was and told him he may not live to see—Mom was waiting 
how I raised him to fght,” Roshelle said. And that’s along the walking path with a hug. 
just what her son did. Ronnie took his frst steps and 
promised to be walking by his birthday in July. He 
fulflled that vow and in September 2017, he was 
cleared to return to work.   
We also partnered with Mercy Health and the 
American Heart Association to ofer a program called 
“Check. Change. Control.” The initiative encouraged 
employees to lower their blood pressure by initiating 
healthy habits like diet and exercise. The program helped participants learn how to monitor and 
manage blood pressure. High blood pressure, also 
known as hypertension, can be a precursor for heart disease or stroke. The results were encouraging: the 
average reduction in systolic blood pressure was 
11.7mmHg, which equates to a 21 percent reduction in 
risk for heart attack and a 33 percent reduction in risk 
for a stroke. Fifteen percent of participants decreased 
their blood pressure from an uncontrolled level to 
controlled, based on the results from their frst and 
last readings. 
37 38 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Be Respectful and Inclusive 
Fifth Third’s annual “Feeding Our Communities” 
initiative provided more than 1.7 million meals in May 
to fght hunger, surpassing the Bank’s goal for the 
second straight year. The month-long efort included 
more than 4,000 volunteer hours by our employees to 
support individuals and communities across the Bank’s 
10-state footprint and other key markets. 
According to Feeding America, an estimated 41 
million Americans—including nearly 13 million 
children—live in households that lack the means 
to get enough nutritious food on a regular basis. 
Statistics like these inspire us to be part of the 
solution to ending hunger. 
We partnered with more than 85 organizations 
across our footprint to provide employee volunteer 
opportunities in May. Each region identifed needs 
in their local communities and designed volunteer 
eforts to support. In Chicago, we provided more than 
179,000 meals for the hungry. Employees engaged 
in activities including sorting and packing meals with 
the Northern Illinois Food Banks in Geneva, Deer 
Park and Rockford, Illinois. They also hosted a special 
event at Navy Pier, helping fll 1,000 backpacks with 
nutritious meals on behalf of Blessings in a Backpack, 
a nonproft that provides food to children who are 
often dependent on school food programs for their 
meals and nutrition. 
Employee volunteers from Chicago who worked to feed the hungry throughout the 
month of May. 
Employee volunteers in California and Houston, where Fifth Third operates Commercial ofces outside of our Consumer Bank footprint, also worked to fght hunger as part of our Feeding our Communities initiative. 
Georgia employees provided more than 34,500 meals 
and volunteered nearly 100 hours to the Atlanta 
Community Food Bank and the Hosea Helps Family 
Center to box food for families in the communities that 
the Bank serves. In North Carolina, employees provided 
more than 50,000 meals through contributions and 
volunteer activities. The employees volunteered more 
than 250 hours on activities that included packing 
meals through the BackPack Buddies program and 
volunteering at two Second Harvest Food Banks in the 
state. Additional donations brought the state total to 
nearly 88,000. Fifth Third teams in markets where we 
don’t have Consumer bank branches, like Texas and 
California, also joined in the efort.  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Special Feature 
From Tragedy, a Legacy of Resilience and Solidarity 
Tragedy landed on the doorsteps of Fifth 
Third Bank in Cincinnati late last summer. On Sept. 6, a gunman opened fre in the lobby of our headquarters. The brave and rapid response of police ofcers brought a quick end to the situation, but not before three members of our Fifth Third family were killed and two others injured. 
As is often the case, the worst of times brought 
out the best in people. During the shooting, employees, contractors and security guards risked their lives to keep others out of harm’s way. Police ofcers, running toward the gunfre rather than away from it, prevented further bloodshed. The thousands of people on Fifth Third’s downtown campus and others around Fountain Square patiently awaited the “all clear,” helping one another through hours of fear and difculty. 
In the aftermath, the community rallied around 
us. The outpouring of support from customers, fellow employees, neighbors, businesses, political leaders and others—even strangers near and far—provided great comfort. People donated money and blood. Many left mementos and words of encouragement on Fountain Square. They humbled us. They inspired us. They strengthened us. 
Through the leadership of the community as a 
whole, #FifthThirdStrong and #CincinnatiStrong arose organically, becoming symbols of solidarity, fortitude and resilience. They also became part of our legacy, a clear reminder that we are, and always will be, Fifth Third Strong. Remembering Those Impacted 
The Sept. 6 tragedy left three members of our Fifth 
Third family dead. We mourn and remember: 
• Luis Calderon, a Fifth Third fnance manager. 
• Prudhvi Raj Kandepi, an IT contractor. 
• Richard Newcomer, a building contractor. 
We pray for the continued recovery of two others injured, digital lending manager Whitney Austin and contractor Brian Sarver. 
The actions of frst responders—including the Cincinnati Police and Fire departments, the Hamilton County Sherif’s Department and our own security team, as well as teams at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center and Hoxworth Blood Center—saved lives. Also, the American Red Cross, the United Way of Greater Cincinnati, the city of Cincinnati, 3CDC, the Jewish Community Relations Council, the Cincinnati Recreation Commission, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra and many businesses delivered care in the immediate aftermath of the shooting. We are grateful for this support. 
In the days, weeks and months after the tragedy, the 
aid and comfort continued: 
We also are grateful for the many contributions 
to the Cincinnati Strong Victims Fund, which is afliated with the National Compassion Fund and the National Center for the Victims of Crime. The Fifth Third Foundation launched the Cincinnati fund with a $1 million gift, and more than 500 individuals and organizations helped raise nearly $250,000 in additional contributions. The money was distributed in early 2019 to more than 30 people impacted by the shooting. 
39 40 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be Respectful and Inclusive 
Supplier Diversity 
We continue to value our diverse suppliers and 
have taken great strides in recent years to increase 
our spend, the number of diverse suppliers with 
whom we work and diverse supplier representation 
in challenging spending categories. In 2018, our 
diversity spend was $77.4 million—a 55% increase 
over 2017 eforts. 
The Summit 
We hosted our fourth annual Supplier Diversity 
Summit last year, with the theme of “Leveling Up Your 
Business”. The summit focused on providing women 
and minority business owners with the information 
and access they need to advance their companies. 
We host the Summit to help diverse companies 
understand what it means to be a supplier to Fifth 
Third and if they are an existing supplier, how they can 
continue to deepen their relationship with the Bank. 
It’s also a way for women-, minority- and veteran-
owners to gain perspectives from each other, while 
learning about additional business opportunities 
within their respective organizations. Over 180 people 
attended the 2018 event, and more than 60 diverse 
companies from 15 states were represented. Fifth Third spends hundreds of millions of dollars 
annually in goods and services, ranging from facility-
management services to information technology and 
ofce supplies. Awarding more of these contracts 
to diverse businesses has been a major focus of 
our Bank. “We continue to take an integrated and 
thoughtful approach to identifying, supporting and 
partnering with the many qualifed diverse suppliers 
all over the country,” said Chief Sourcing Ofcer Juan 
Munoz. “The Summit afords us the opportunity to 
collaborate with these individuals and to make them 
aware of the opportunities that exist at the Bank.” 
A highlight of the 2018 summit was recognizing 
graduates of the Ohio Minority Supplier Diversity 
Council/Ohio State University Fisher School of 
Business Supplier Diversity Executive Education 
(SDEE) program. Sponsored by Fifth Third, the SDEE 
program delivers development opportunities for the 
enhancement of minority business executives within 
the area of operational excellence. This curriculum 
helps these MBE’s become better suppliers to 
corporate partners. The program also helps facilitate 
the employment and economic development of 
minority communities. 
Kimberly Blackwell (right), CEO of PMM Agency, served as keynote speaker at our 2018 Supplier Diversity Summit. She shared that, as a business visionary, an owner has the opportunity and responsibility 
every day to share the company’s brand with the world. She is pictured with Fifth Third’s Chief Inclusion and Diversity Ofcer Stephanie Smith (left) and Chairman, President and CEO Greg Carmichael. 
Through the years, Fifth Third has developed many 
partnerships with organizations that focus on 
enhancing the capacity, expertise and business 
acumen of diverse suppliers: the National Minority 
Supplier Development Council, the U.S. Small 
Business Administration, the U.S. Dept. of Veterans 
Afairs and the Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC). In 2018, our Supplier Diversity 
Program was recognized by Minority Business News 
as one of the Best of the Decade, by Diversity Plus 
Magazine for Chief Inclusion and Diversity Ofcer 
Stephanie Smith’s accomplishments in directing the 
supplier diversity initiatives, and by WBENC as one 
of America’s Top Corporations. Fifth Third was 1 of 
only 60 companies nationally to be recognized 
by WBENC as one of America’s top corporations 
working with women business owners. 
The Pitch 
We worked with Messer Construction, Co. last year to 
create an innovative program called The Pitch, which 
created a platform for small businesses to compete 
for contracts, mentoring and monetary prizes. We 
saw 50 local businesses apply and 18 were selected 
as fnalists to make their pitch: 10 to Fifth Third and 
eight to Messer. The Fifth Third winner received a frst-place prize 
package worth $10,000. It included a Cintrifuse membership, a one-year Union Hall residency and an 
$8,850 cash investment in the winner’s business. The 
Messer Construction Co. frst-place winner received 
a one-on-one meeting with Messer’s leadership, an 
introductory lunch with Messer’s senior management 
team, a fnancial assessment by the Minority Business 
Accelerator and quarterly mentoring from a Messer 
senior manager. 
“Current capacity makes it difcult for corporations 
to identify diverse companies that are qualifed to do business,” said Stephanie Smith, chief 
inclusion and diversity ofcer at Fifth Third 
Bank. “Executives at Fifth Third Bank and Messer 
Construction realized this issue and created The 
Pitch to help create a fair and level playing feld for 
diverse suppliers.” 
Natasia Malihollo is founder and CEO of Wyzerr, 
which develops artifcial intelligence to turn customer 
and employee feedback data into real-time insights. 
She said winning frst place in The Pitch helped build 
her company’s reputation. “Revenue aside, getting a 
corporate contract validates a company’s business 
model and removes a lot of the friction and doubts 
about a company’s capabilities,” she said. 
Natasia Malihollo, center, was the winner of Fifth Third’s The Pitch contest for women- and minority-owned companies. 
41 Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR ReportTake Accountability— 
Taking Care 
of the Planet 
42 We are committed to taking care of our 
planet for our customers, shareholders 
and employees. That’s why we set fve 
bold sustainability goals to promote a 
healthy environment and protect it for 
future generations, all of which we’ve 
committed to achieving by 2022. 
In 2018, we achieved our frst goal—to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent—and took 
a giant stride toward accomplishing our 100 percent 
renewable energy goal three years ahead of schedule. 
Specifcally, we made measurable progress or took 
steps that will lead to signifcant progress on the 
remaining goals: 
• Energy: through lighting upgrades, improved 
energy management, new corporate standards 
and other factors, we reduced our energy use 
14 percent. 
• Greenhouse Gas Emissions: due to the noted 
energy reduction strategies and declining 
greenhouse gas emissions from the electricity 
grid, we reduced our emissions by 28 percent, 
achieving our goal. 
• Landfll Waste: we have been transitioning to a 
new vendor and data system and expect to begin measurable reductions in 2019. • Water: installing smart irrigation systems along 
with other bes
t practices helped us reduce water 
consumption 17 percent.  
• Green Power: even as we focus on advancing our 
power purchase agreement (PPA) to achieve our 
100 percent renewable goal in 2019, we supported 
renewable energy generation by purchasing 30 percent green power from the Crosswinds Wind project in Oklahoma. Fifth Third’s Bold Goals by 2022 
Reduce energy use by 
25% 
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
25% 
Reduce landfll waste by 
20% 
Reduce water usage by 
20% 
Renewable energy purchased 
100% 
ENERGY GHG LANDFILL WA TER 
14.4% 28.0% WASTE — 17.9% 
reduction reduction not available reduction 
toward 25% exceeding 25% in 2018 toward  20% 
of goal* of goal* of goal* 
GREEN POWER toward 100% goal 30.0% 
*Through Q3 
Energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water consumption calculations are based on owned or ground-leased buildings where we receive a utility bill. GHG emissions are calculated using national average 
emissions factors. Energy use and water use are calculated per square foot. Progress toward reduction goals are measured relative to a 2014 baseline. Due to delays involved in billing, data collection, and reporting, the energy, GHG, and water calculations refect a rolling 12 month average ending in the 3rd quarter of 2018. Complete energy consumption and GHG emissions are reported in our annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project. After establishing a new baseline for waste this year, we will provide an update on our reduction goal in 2019. 43 43 44 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
  
 
 — Take Accountability Taking Care of the Planet 
Moving Toward 100 Percent Solar Power 
In March 2018, Fifth Third became the frst Fortune 
500 company to sign a contract to purchase 100 
percent renewable power through solar power and 
through a single project. Our executives rang the 
Nasdaq opening bell in New York to announce 
our signing of a power purchase agreement (PPA) 
to buy all of the power from a new 80 megawatt 
solar project to be built within our Consumer Bank 
footprint in North Carolina. The contract put us on 
track to achieve our goal of achieving 100 percent 
renewable power three years ahead of schedule. 
“We applaud Fifth Third for becoming the frst RE100 
member company to contract for 100 percent solar 
power,” said Amy Davidsen, North America executive 
director, The Climate Group, which leads the RE100 
initiative. “By striving to achieve its 100 percent 
renewable energy goal three years early, Fifth Third 
is demonstrating that there is a strong business case 
for solar, that corporate leadership on renewables 
is accelerating, and that faster greenhouse gas 
emissions cuts are possible. This will inspire more companies to follow suit.” 
The Aulander Holloman Solar Facility, an 80 megawatt solar project in Hertford County, North 
Carolina, will enable Fifth Third Bank to meet its 100 percent renewable power goal when it comes online in 2019. 
RE100 is a collaborative initiative bringing together 
the world’s most infuential businesses committed 
to 100 percent renewable power. To emphasize 
our commitment to renewable energy, we joined 
both RE100, a corporate leadership initiative led by 
The Climate Group in partnership with the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, and the Business Renewables 
Center in 2018. 
Fifth Third Chief Financial Ofcer Tayfun Tuzun rings the Nasdaq opening bell on March 7, 2018 to announce Fifth Third’s power purchase agreement for 100% solar power. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Following the announcement of the PPA, we worked 
with our partners to complete the project’s fnancing 
and to monitor its construction. Heavy rains that 
started with Hurricanes Florence and Michael 
and continued throughout much of 2018 forced 
construction delays. However, the Aulander Holloman 
Solar Facility is expected to be completed and come 
online in 2019. 
The innovation and collaboration required to evaluate, 
sign and implement the PPA led to an industry frst 
achievement, as well as many inquiries about how 
we assembled a team and the expertise needed to 
make the decision. We were pleased to share our 
experiences and lessons learned at various renewable 
energy conferences in 2018. We hope other companies can follow in our footsteps and make a cost efective, 
positive and long-lasting impact on our environment. 
We were honored to receive the 2018 Business 
Leadership in Clean Energy Award from the North 
Carolina Sustainable Energy Association (NCSEA). 
This award recognized our “lasting positive impact” 
on North Carolina’s clean energy economy due to our role in fnancing solar projects as well as for 
signing a Power Purchase Agreement for a major 
new solar project in North Carolina. “NCSEA is grateful for Fifth Third and its 
Renewable Energy Finance Group for 
their bold leadership and commitment to the communities they serve. When Fifth 
Third announced their PPA to purchase 
100% solar power from a project in 
North Carolina, they demonstrated their 
unwavering commitment to building a 
clean energy economy that benefts all 
North Carolinians. We are honored to have Fifth Third as an NCSEA member, and we 
look forward to our continued partnership 
to keep North Carolina the #2 solar market 
in the United States. 
” 
— Ivan Urlaub, Executive Director 
North Carolina Sustainable Association 
Fifth Third’s Environmental Sustainability Director Scott Hassell and Schneider Electric’s Hans Royal share how collaboration contributed to the PPA’s approval at the Smart Energy Decisions Renewable Energy 
Sourcing Forum in California in June. 
45 46 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     — Take Accountability Taking Care of the Planet 
Accelerating Sustainability 
When it comes to environmental sustainability, as in life, small acts can lead to big change. In addition to setting bold goals and innovating with projects like the power purchase agreement, we are focused on the small steps we can take within our Company, in our community and within industry circles to collectively drive actions that improve the health and vitality of our planet and the environment for all. 
Operations 
With a growing number of renovation projects across our portfolio, our new construction and demolition waste diversion initiative is moving us toward our ambitious 20 percent waste reduction goal. Construction and demolition waste accounts for some of the largest and heaviest items we use, including metal, wiring, insulation, wood and concrete. In 2018, this initiative helped to divert more than 70,000 pounds of construction materials from landflls. Our Enterprise Workplace Services group also launched a new ofce supply donations program to help put unused supplies to new use and reduce the waste we generate. 
The past year also saw two innovative new solutions 
to water management. We launched a smart irrigation program to manage and control landscaping water use, giving us remote visibility into irrigation schedules and irrigation control functionality. The system also monitors real-time weather data—when rain is set to overlap with our watering schedule, the system makes a real-time correction, reducing the water used. Separately, we helped reduce interior water usage by replacing faucets with high-efciency aerators. By being smarter and more conscious of our water use, we support communities and help protect water as an important local resource. 
Fifth Third Environmental Sustainability Leader Jeremy Faust receives frst- and second-place 
awards from the Michigan Battle of the Buildings in April. 
Energy efciency has long ofered a golden 
opportunity to reduce our environmental impact while reducing expenses and improving operations. We were again recognized for our excellence in energy efciency by the U.S. Green Building Council of Western Michigan. The annual Michigan Battle of the Buildings competition pits building owners against one another in an efort to see who can most reduce their energy consumption. Fifth Third was awarded frst and second place in the fnancial institutions category for energy savings at the Westland Banking Center (10.96% reduction) and the Plymouth Banking Center (8.40% reduction). 
Employees 
Our employees demonstrated a keen interest in supporting our sustainability initiatives last year. The Corporate Culture and Enterprise Workplace Services teams hosted our frst employee tree planting event in Cincinnati. Employees planted ten new trees around our Madisonville campus, an action that will foster cleaner air, cleaner water and a more beautiful environment for years to come. 
We also held another Electronics Waste (E-Waste) 
Recycling day, and the 2018 event saw nearly twice the amount of recycled content from 2017. Made possible through a partnership with Getronics and Cohen Recycling, the event enables employees to safely and responsibly recycle old electronics from home. They recycled more than 8,700 pounds of electronics waste, from laptops to cell phones to batteries as well as 88 televisions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Community 
We participated in Earth Hour again in 2018, an 
international day of recognition on climate issues. We turned of exterior or non-safety lights at 19 sites and more than two million square feet of space. We also continued our leadership roles with several local sustainability organizations, including Green Umbrella and the Greater Cincinnati Green Business Council. 
New in 2018, we became a founding member of the 
Cincinnati 2030 District. 2030 Districts are a national model for urban sustainability. Each 2030 District is made up of property owners who make a voluntary commitment to reduce their building’s energy use, water consumption and transportation emissions in an efort to achieve a set of bold community sustainability goals. We joined the newly formed Cincinnati 2030 District, designating Fifth Third Center in Cincinnati as a member building. 
Climate Related Disclosure 
In 2018, based on our review of recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), we included more detail about our governance approach, risk management framework and our identifcation of climate-related risks and opportunities in our 2018 submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Based on our submission, we received a CDP score of “C.” We are continuing to drive further changes, including examining ways to increase transparency, enhance our environmental risk management framework, and review our portfolio for exposure to carbon-intensive and renewable sectors. One example of our eforts to expand disclosure is that we are introducing a new, Climate-related Disclosure document, which provides additional detail using the TCFD’s reporting structure. This document will be available later this year at 53.com/sustainability. “As a Founding Member of the 
Cincinnati 2030 District, Fifth Third Bank is continuing its leadership in advocating for and adopting best practices in sustainability. Fifth Third’s commitment will not only result in tangible reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but also contribute to the enhanced resiliency, competitiveness, and vibrancy of the Greater Cincinnati region. 
” 
— Tremaine L. Phillips, Director 
Cincinnati 2030 District 
In November 2018, Fifth Third employees helped plant 10 trees on our Madisonville campus. 
47 48 
Fifth Third Bancorp 2018 CSR Report 
                                                                               Contact Us 
Visit 53.com/customer-service for a full list of contact 
numbers for specifc inquiries. 
Visit 53.com/csrreport to read the 2018 Fifth Third 
Bancorp Corporate Responsibility Report online. 
Customer Inquiries: 800-972-3030 
Business Inquiries: 877-534-2264 
Commercial Inquiries: 866-475-0729 
Investor Relations: 866-670-0468 
Community Inquiries: 53.com/commitment 
Media Inquiries: 53.com/media-center 
or 513-534-NEWS 
You can also fnd us on social media: 
Fifth Third Bank 
@ffththird 
Fifth Third Bank 
Contains 10% Recycled Fiber 
Member FDIC. Equal Housing Lender. 