2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportbuilding bridges
COMMUNITIES
ENVIRONMENT
CONSUMERS
 BUSINESSES
 EMPLOYEESbuilding bridges
01    A Letter from the President & CEO 
02    Consumers  
Express Banking, L.I.F.E. Programs, Reemployment 
08 Communities  
Community Commitment, Fifth Third Community 
Development Corporation, Fifth Third Foundation
12  Businesses  
Small Business Lending, Business Resources,  Charitable Giving
16 Employees  
Inclusion, Wellness, Volunteerism 
20 Environment  
Energy Efficiency, Recycling, Advancing SustainabilityIt is an honor to address you as Fifth Third Bancorp’s 
chief executive officer and to lead this great Company.  
We are working hard at Fifth Third to position 
ourselves for long-term, sustainable success. We are 
executing our strategic plan with a laser-like focus 
on nurturing a culture of excellence. We are keeping 
the customer at the center of all we do, acting 
with integrity and delivering consistently strong 
performance. We are committed to working hard as 
One Bank, as one team. 
So, what does this mean for corporate social 
responsibility at our Company? Put simply, it means 
that we are going to concentrate on doing the right 
thing for the people in our communities, and beyond them, for the communities themselves. It means we 
are going to be even more focused, more strategic and more attuned to community relations, strategic 
partnerships, financial investments and delivery of 
needs-based programs. Our recently announced $27.5 
billion community commitment demonstrates our 
seriousness in accomplishing this goal and makes it 
easier for the community to hold us accountable for 
our success. Bridges is the theme of this year’s CSR Report 
because bridges take us where we want to go, even 
over obstacles that can seem difficult to overcome. 
Whether it’s a bridge between individuals, between 
business and the community or between one vision 
and another—building bridges is the way we cross 
those paths. Bridging differences is how we all come together for the benefit of society. The concept of 
bridges represents to me a true desire to marry 
community goals and our Company’s financial and 
employee resources to accomplish a shared vision for 
where we all live and work. 
In this CSR Report, we are happy to report on the 
bridges we built with you in 2015, and the great things 
we see on the horizon for the markets we serve. 
Thank you for your commitment to Fifth Third and for 
helping us to fulfill our purpose to improve lives and 
the well-being of our communities.Dear Friends,
Sincerely,
Greg D. Carmichael
President & CEO
Fifth Third Bancorp
April 2016
1 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFifth Third b ank is 
Connecting consumers 
to the products and 
services they most need.Consumers
 CONSUMERS
COMMUNITIES
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
ENVIRONMENT
One way that Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary defines a bridge 
is: a time, place, or means of connection or transition. At Fifth Third, 
we are partial to that definition because our support of individuals 
and families in communities—customers and non-customers alike—is 
centered on helping connect them to the products and services they 
most need. 
onsumers need access to top-quality 
financial products and services. Our 
bricks and mortar locations, and 
more frequently, our 53.com website, mobile 
applications and other forms of digital delivery 
like Apple Pay, are key to this effort. So is a 
new product that Fifth Third launched in 2015, 
Express Banking.*
Fifth Third designed Express Banking to serve 
the one in four households that is unbanked 
or underbanked.** Individuals who are 
underbanked often don’t feel they have enough 
money for a bank account or are unable to open an account due to past banking problems. 
They often use banks and non-bank alternatives 
such as check-cashing centers to cash checks, 
make payments and get cashier’s checks. 
The underbanked are growing at a faster rate 
than the overall population, especially among 
younger consumers.*** Further, Fifth Third 
Bank’s footprint includes some of the highest 
underbanked markets in the country, including 
Kentucky, Florida and North Carolina. Express 
Banking provides a way for people to manage 
their money with no monthly service charge, 
balance requirement or overdraft fees.C
Fifth Third Bancorp23
2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
In an unprecedented collaboration, more than 300 volunteers from 11 area banking institutions taught lessons 
on the importance of saving to more than 4,000 seventh- and eighth-graders in Cincinnati Public Schools 
(CPS) on Sept. 16, 2015 (pictured above and below). Using curriculum developed by the American Bankers 
Association (ABA) Foundation, they reached more than 155 classrooms in 20 district schools as they helped 
to address a major issue confronting the nation: lack of financial literacy.
“Our local banking community understands 
the need to increase financial literacy in the 
community,” said Tim Elsbrock, market president 
for Fifth Third Bank. “We also understand that, like 
so much in life, the sooner good financial habits are 
adopted, the more likely they are to continue in life.”
Led by Fifth Third Bank, participating banks 
included Chase, Citi, the Federal Reserve, First 
National, Huntington, KeyBank, Park National, PNC, 
Republic and U.S. Bank. 
“Bankers live and breathe the world of finance 
and we believe no one is better suited to take 
on financial education,” said Jeni Pastier, senior 
manager of financial education for the ABA Foundation. “We’re proud that bankers continue to 
make this a priority for their communities and that 
ABA Foundation resources help them do so.”
Fifth Third Leads 11-Bank Effort to Teach Financial Literacy in 
Cincinnati Public SchoolsWe developed Express Banking to meet a 
growing need. The program, which launched 
in 2015, quickly attracted customers and 
exceeded the Bank’s expectations. 
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB) recently announced a plan to improve 
checking account access. The CFPB sent letters 
to the 25 largest retail banks encouraging them 
to make available and widely market lower-
risk deposit accounts. The bureau emphasized 
designing services that prevent customers 
from overdrafting their accounts to avoid 
spending money they don’t have, and avoid 
accumulating fees.
“This is exactly why we created Express 
Banking,” said Greg Carmichael, Fifth Third Bancorp president and CEO. “We want to 
provide a simple and safe way for families to manage their finances and build their assets. It 
will benefit families, but also our communities.”
Express Banking features check cashing and 
direct deposit, money orders and cashier’s 
checks, among other services. The more consumers use qualifying Express Banking 
services, the more discounts they earn on these services. Express Banking features a lifetime 
tier system, so once consumers earn discounts, they keep them for the life of the account. The 
highest level gives customers a 50 percent 
discount on money orders and check-cashing 
fees, among other services. 
Express Banking customers also have access  
to money management tools and financial 
literacy resources.SPOTLIGHT
3 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report*Visit 53.com/expressbanking for more details about the account.
**2013 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation National Survey 
of Unbanked and Underbanked Households
***KPMG’s 2014 Banking Industry Outlook SurveyBUT 84% 34%We believe lives are improved when individuals have the tools and knowledge 
they need to successfully manage their ﬁnances at every age and stage of life.
of teens look to their 
parents for money 
management skills*of parents don’t discuss 
ﬁnances with children 
to “let kids be kids.”*
2,072 students educated 
through Young Bankers Club in 2015
Ramsey’s Foundations in Personal Finance delivered to 
800,000  students since 2010, thanks to Fifth Third Bank.221
TOURS113 CITIES
VISITED35K+
VISITORS1K VOLUNTEER
HOURSThe Fifth Third 
Financial EmpowermenteBus logged:HOW DOES FIFTH THIRD HELP?SPEND WITHOUT A 
BUDGET**
BALANCE CHECKBOOK 
<1 TIME A MONTH***
HAVE A SIX-MONTH 
SAVINGS SAFETY NET***
KNOW MAX. $ TO 
CONTRIBUTE TO 401(K)***MONEY
HABITPERCENTAGE OF
AMERICANS
60%
33%
40%
10%IN 2015:
*2015 Teens and Personal Finance Survey. Junior Achievement/The Allstate Foundation, March 25, 
2015. http://tinyurl.com/JA-Allstate-2015 
**2015 Consumer Financial Literacy Survey. National Foundation for Credit Counseling/NerdWallet, 
April 7, 2015. http://tinyurl.com/NFCC-Consumer-Survey
***2015 Financial Literacy Survey. Research Now, Commissioned by Fifth Third Bank, March 5-17, 2015.
Fifth Third Bancorp4Employees from our Georgia region are excited about a day staffing the Financial Empowerment 
Mobile. At the event, they offered financial guidance to community members and helped many 
obtain and read their credit reports.
Financial Empowerment
In addition to providing the underbanked with an economical and safe 
way to conduct financial transactions and potentially bridge to more 
traditional bank relationships through Express Banking, Fifth Third also 
helps improve lives through its suite of financial empowerment programs, 
called L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved through Financial Empowerment®). 
Our L.I.F.E. programs were born more than a decade ago out of the need 
to combat financial illiteracy. Our years of experience in the industry 
showed us how a lack of understanding about budgeting, saving and 
financial planning can have a detrimental and long-lasting effect on 
people’s future. We also learned through one of our key programs, the 
Young Bankers Club, how effective financial education can be if taught 
early and reinforced throughout a child’s development. 
L.I.F.E. is a combination of our internally developed programs and key 
sponsorships exclusive in our 12-state market. Our L.I.F.E. programs 
provide free access to educational services to hundreds of thousands of 
people. At the conclusion of 2015, L.I.F.E. at Fifth Third included four key 
programs: 
•	The Fifth Third Young Bankers Club® for elementary school students 
teaching the importance of education, saving and budgeting.
•	Dave Ramsey’s Foundations in Personal Finance ® curriculum for 
high school juniors that teaches budgeting, insurance, investing and 
charitable giving.
•	Empower U® for adults, including classes on homeownership, college 
funding and retirement planning.
•	Fifth Third’s Financial Empowerment Mobiles, or eBuses, which travel 
into underserved and minority neighborhoods bringing financial 
education and access directly to residents. Job search assistance, 
homeownership education, loss-mitigation assistance and foreclosure prevention are available on our eBuses. In 2015, our Company commissioned a financial literacy survey that 
confirmed the need for financial literacy education. We also put two 
of our bankers on the radio airwaves during Financial Literacy Month 
in April to build awareness about Fifth Third’s L.I.F.E. programs. The 
coverage included an article in USA Today  aimed at stimulating 
discussions about budgeting and savings in American households. 
Our L.I.F.E. programs provide free 
access to educational services to 
hundreds of thousands of people.
5 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportReemployment
One of the most successful bridges we’ve built 
in the past several years has been to out-of-
work consumers with NextJob, a national 
employment solutions company. Several years 
ago, our two companies joined forces to create 
the first-ever homeowner reemployment 
program. It matched our mortgage borrowers 
who were unemployed or underemployed 
with NextJob career coaches and additional 
NextJob services to help them regain financial 
security and potentially avoid foreclosure. 
Since 2012, this and other Fifth Third and 
NextJob collaborations have helped more than 
250 people land jobs. 
In 2015, we continued this program as well 
as free access for our customers to the Job 
Seeker’s Toolkit, a set of online job training 
modules, at 53.com. We also expanded our 
outreach in 2015 to recent college graduates 
who were finding it tough in a recovering 
economy to land jobs after graduation. 
That effort, called Brand of You , provided  
scholarships to members of the Millennial 
generation and others to get job coaching from 
NextJob. Our Brand of You effort helped many 
young people get their foot in the door to their 
first career and the beginning of the rest of 
their lives. We also extended the scholarship 
offer to U.S. military members, veterans and 
their spouses during November and December  
of 2015. Responsible Banking 
Responsible banking is at the core of how 
we serve consumers. We are committed to 
delivering best-in-class financial products 
and services and to providing access to those 
services whenever and wherever consumers 
want them. 
Our Responsible Banking department, part 
of our Compliance Risk Management group, 
ensures that our complete product and service 
suite is accessible to all consumers, in all 
market segments, and that we’re offering the right types of responsive products and services.
Our commitment is to act in the best interest of 
our customers by providing reasonably priced 
products, defining clear terms and disclosures 
and offering fair and consistent service. By 
doing so, we can build lasting customer 
relationships and meet our responsibility to help them prosper. 
Above: Fifth-graders from Grand Haven Christian Schools 
received a valuable lesson on business from our Robbins Road 
Financial Center. Manager Julie Koning helped students write 
and present a business plan. Then, 32 fifth-grade students met 
with Fifth Third bankers at the branch, presented their plans 
and asked for a $20 loan as seed money to run their business. 
Ideas ranged from dog walking and car detailing services to 
products like art work, food, books and jewelry. The Robbins 
Road team made each session feel like an actual loan interview, 
shaking each student’s hand, giving them a business card and 
taking notes. At the close of school, a market day was held 
where the students sold the products from their business. The 
students turned the original $640 in seed grants into $2,262 in 
donations to Casa de Esperanza, an orphanage in Haiti, and the 
World Vision Micro Loan Program. 
Above, lower: More than 235 fifth-grade students and volunteer 
mentors from the West Virginia and Kentucky Young Bankers 
Club programs attended a field trip to Marshall University.
Fifth Third Bancorp6“I don’t think I’d have found a 
job as soon as I have if it were 
not for my NextJob coach Karen 
Hansen. She’s been so helpful in 
finding me leads, and giving me 
ideas for leads. She advised me 
on how to approach the subject 
of relocating for jobs and how 
to word that on my cover letter.”
—Patrick Harrington, who won a scholarship through 
Fifth Third’s 2015 Brand of You campaign 
“This experience has truly 
convinced me that job coaching 
is an essential tool to anyone 
who’s struggling to find work. 
Without Fifth Third funding 
NextJob’s services for me, I 
may never have left the retail 
industry. Thank you so much for 
helping me advance my career.”
—Kristian, who started his new career in the fall of 2015 
“An idea whose time had come.”
—John Courtney, CEO, NextJob
“If the world’s greatest athletes 
can benefit from a coach, why can’t today’s job seekers?”
—Kristi Weigant, chief operating officer and director of 
customer happiness, NextJob SPOTLIGHT
Fifth Third Bank’s Homeowner Reemployment Program 
matches out-of-work mortgage customers with job coaches 
and job-search training from NextJob.7.9 MM
UNEMPLOYED
AMERICANS*2.1 MM
LONG-TERM
UNEMPLOYED*62.2 %
CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE
PARTICIPATION RATE*
250 JOBS FOUND.**
250 LIVES IMPROVED.Fifth Third Bank and NextJob: 
Bridging the Gap to Employment
HOW DOES FIFTH THIRD HELP?
7 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report*Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. 
Department of Labor, Press release 
“The Employment Situation—December 
2015, January 8, 2016.
**since 2012.Communities
A bridge can also be defined as “a structure carrying a pathway to or 
roadway over a depression or obstacle.” At Fifth Third, we understand 
that the road to great achievements is often paved with challenges of 
many varying types—and that building bridges with community leaders, 
businesses, local government and even across our own business lines is 
a vital part of the construction process. 
he key to accomplishing great things in 
the community is identifying a common 
goal and bringing the right groups of 
people together to work toward a solution. Our 
mission in the community is to be an integral 
part of that team, to lead when possible and 
to contribute our expertise whenever practical. 
It is our corporate social responsibility to 
help create economically healthy, vibrant and 
sustainable communities and to improve the 
quality of life for residents therein.
That’s why, in 2015, we worked hard to 
formulate a $27.5 billion, five-year commitment 
to the community that outlines our goals and 
priorities for now and into the future. Highlights of our commitment include:
•	$10 billion in mortgage credit access.
•	$10 billion in small business loans and 
investments, including Small Business 
Administration (SBA) Express loans. 
•	$6.5 billion in commercial credit 
development loans within our  
Wholesale Bank, including commercial 
lending, commercial real estate, dealer 
finance, healthcare services, large 
corporate lending, mid cap, middle 
market lending, professional services and 
structured finance.T
Fifth Third has 
pledged a $27.5 billion, 
five-year commitment 
to the community.
COMMUNITIES
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
ENVIRONMENT
CONSUMERS
Fifth Third Bancorp8•	$1 billion in CRA-related investments 
through the Fifth Third Community 
Development Corporation (CDC) to support 
affordable housing, revitalization, historic 
preservation and small businesses. 
The Company also is committing to  
$89.4 million of additional investments, service 
and marketing: 
•	$22 million in housing-related investments, 
including down-payment assistance and 
homebuyer education.
•	$7 million in small business-related 
investments, including $5 million in Public 
Investment Programs and Loan Pools and 
$2 million to support technical assistance 
providers for small business owners.
•	$45.1 million in CRA donations that support 
initiatives that would qualify for credit under 
the federal Community Reinvestment Act. 
•	$15.3 million in additional investments that 
support diverse hiring, supplier programs, 
retail accessibility enhancements and Fifth 
Third’s L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved through 
Financial Empowerment®) programs, 
including the Fifth Third Bank Young 
Bankers Club, Financial Empowerment 
Mobiles (eBuses) and delivery of Dave Ramsey’s Foundations in Personal Finance 
curriculum in high schools. 
Our community commitment, made public 
in early 2016 and extending through 2020, is designed to help us fulfill our purpose to improve lives and be a force of positive change 
within our footprint. FIFTH THIRD FOUNDATION
CONTRIBUTIONS
$4,300,000
FIFTH THIRD BANK
CONTRIBUTIONSOur purpose is to listen to our 
customers and inspire them with 
smart ﬁnancial solutions that 
continually improve their lives and 
the well-being of our communities.
$193.3 million  
in CDC investments in 2015
$459,000 
in Strengthening our Communities 
Fund grants 
20 full scholarships 
for emerging leaders 
HOW DOES FIFTH THIRD HELP?
AWARDS & HONORS
Illinois Bankers 
Association Community 
Service Award for  
eﬀorts to serve 
communities, especially 
through “Honoring Our 
Veterans” campaignJUNE 2015
Financial Services 
Roundtable Corporate 
Social Responsibility 
Leadership Award  
for dedication to 
community service and 
ﬁnancial literacyJULY 20155%
7%
21%
32%
35%Arts & Culture 
Civic & Community
Education
Health & Human 
Services
United WayFY ENDING 9/30/15
9 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFifth Third Community Development 
Corporation
We make a significant impact in the communities 
we serve through the Fifth Third Community 
Development Corporation (CDC). In 2015, the 
CDC invested $193.3 million in affordable housing, 
revitalization, historic preservation and small 
business projects in the Bank’s footprint states. 
In Chillicothe, Ohio, the CDC invested in 
Freedom’s Path, a low-income housing 
tax credit project. Freedom’s Path is being 
developed near the Chillicothe Veterans Affairs 
(VA) Medical Center in Chillicothe. Freedom’s 
Path is primarily being developed for veterans 
that are homeless, at-risk for homelessness or 
disabled. The project consists of one three-
story elevator-served building containing 58 
one-bedroom units and two, two-bedroom 
units. The building is being designed to meet 
LEED Silver certification and will incorporate 
energy-efficient appliances and systems to 
mitigate its environmental impact. Units are 
targeted to veteran households with 30-,  
50- and 60-percent area median incomes. 
Fifth Third Foundation 
Fifth Third Bank was the first financial 
institution in the United States to establish 
a philanthropic foundation in 1948. It was 
established to make strategic grants in the 
areas of community development, health and 
human services, the arts and education. The 
Fifth Third Foundation made grants of more 
than $4.3 million in the fiscal year, which ended 
Sept. 30, 2015. Fifth Third rallies around the occasion of Veterans Day each year to show our support to U.S. military 
members, their families and veterans to thank them for their service. Our support takes many forms, 
including event sponsorships of activities that help raise funds for veteran needs, commemorative events that 
engage the community in showing its appreciation for their sacrifices and acknowledgment of the veterans 
who are members of our employee family. 
Our support also includes real financial and hands-
on volunteer support. In 2015, we provided job-
coaching scholarships with employment solutions 
company NextJob to assist veterans in gaining 
civilian employment. One such veteran was a 
Marine who desired a position that would utilize 
his military experience in law enforcement and investigative services. His NextJob career coach 
helped him tweak his resume, develop a one-line 
impact statement that would benefit him at job fair 
interviews and build a strong network. At a job fair, 
the marine was offered his dream job in Federal 
Protection Services. 
Fifth Third also invested $220,000 with Rebuilding 
Together National on 17 home rebuild projects 
for low-income veterans. Our employees joined 
with local Rebuilding Together affiliate volunteers 
(pictured above in Indianapolis and left in Columbus) 
to make vital house repairs, upgrades and landscape 
improvements for veterans and their families whose 
physical and financial circumstances prevented them 
from making them independently. 
Fifth Third Bank regions also deployed their resources 
to benefit veterans in many meaningful ways. 
Honoring Our VeteransSPOTLIGHT
Fifth Third Bancorp 10Among the civic and community development 
grants made in 2015 were $10,000 to the 
Resurrection Project in Chicago for its financial 
wellness initiative; $25,000 to Catalytic 
Development Funding Corporation of Northern 
Kentucky for its Catalytic Fund, which provides 
financing assistance and related services for 
developers of quality real-estate projects in 
Northern Kentucky’s urban cities; and $5,000 to 
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Atlanta 
in Georgia for housing counseling, including 
pre-purchase and homebuyer education.
The Foundation also made a $5,000 grant 
to the Toledo Urban Federal Credit Union in 
Ohio for its Project FREE (Families Reaching 
Economic Empowerment) initiative; $10,000 to 
the Inner City Christian Foundation in western 
Michigan to support its financial empowerment 
initiatives; and $5,000 to Habitat for Humanity 
of Hillsborough County, Florida, for a local 
home build project. 
Community Sponsorships
At Fifth Third, we recognize that we are only 
as strong as the communities we serve. Each 
year, our Company sponsors community 
and economic development forums and 
conferences with the aim of giving our partners 
access to valuable information and networking 
opportunities. We help to ensure that select community organizations can participate 
by providing full scholarships through our 
Empowering Community Leaders (ECL) 
Scholarship program. Through the ECL program, we have enabled 75 
emerging or long-standing leaders to participate 
in educational forums and conferences over 
the past five years. In 2015, 20 scholarships 
were awarded for individuals to attend 
conferences and workshops like the Cleveland 
Fed’s Annual Policy Summit, the Opportunity Finance Network’s Annual Conference and the National Community Reinvestment Coalition’s 
annual conference networking event. In addition, several other scholarships afforded 
organizations the opportunity to attend state-
wide or regional educational forums such as 
housing conferences. 
Annually, Fifth Third financially supports a wide 
range of national forums and conferences. We 
supported the National Development Council 
Academy in Washington, D.C., in 2015. Within 
our footprint, we also supported the Reclaiming 
Vacant Properties Conference and Opportunity 
Finance Network’s Annual Conference in Detroit, and the Association of Enterprise 
Opportunities Conference held in Atlanta. 
Right: Detroit residents have a new resource to take control of 
their household finances and become entrepreneurs, thanks to 
a collaboration among Fifth Third Bank, financial empowerment 
nonprofit Operation HOPE and the City of Detroit through Bank 
On Detroit. Collectively, these organizations opened the first 
HOPE Inside location in Michigan. Fifth Third’s involvement with 
HOPE is part of its $85 million commitment to Detroit. It includes 
moving its headquarters to the historic One Woodward Building, 
adopting and revitalizing Hart Plaza, and numerous other 
charitable donations, marketing sponsorships, small business 
loans, Fifth Third Community Development Corporation tax 
credit investments and economic impact contributions over the 
next five years. In the photo, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan speaks 
at the grand opening of HOPE Inside.
Right, lower: Employees in Columbus, part of our Central Ohio 
Region, were proud to participate in the African American 
Wellness Walk in 2015.
11 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportbusinesses
According to the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), 
more than half of Americans either own or work for a small 
business. As such, small businesses are critical to a healthy 
economic environment. Fifth Third Bank is proud to support 
small businesses and does so in a variety of ways. 
ifth Third is an SBA Preferred Lender.* In 
2015, our SBA lending was $122 million. 
SBA loans offer many benefits for small 
businesses, including fixed and variable interest 
rates with flexible terms, the ability to finance 
loan closing costs and lower down payments 
on commercial real estate.  
We offer many types of SBA lending options, 
including SBA Express Loans, which feature 
simpler application processes and faster 
approval than 7(a) general purpose loans. Our 
SBA Express Loan production, which are loans 
that total less than $350,000 and are generally 
made to smaller-sized businesses, increased 147 percent in unit count year-over-year.  Last year, the State Small Business Credit 
Initiative (SSBCI) announced that Fifth Third 
Bank was the nation’s top lender by dollar 
amount since the initiative’s inception. In its 
Summary of States report, Fifth Third Bank 
is noted as having issued 82 SSBCI loans 
totaling more than $98 million since 2011, for an 
average of $1.2 million per loan.  
Earnest Products, a sheet metal fabricator 
in Sanford, Florida, received an SSBCI credit 
line through Fifth Third Bank. “We brought in 
multiple banks, but Fifth Third Bank bent over backwards to help, arranged all the details 
and made the process incredibly easy for us,” 
said John Szydlowski, controller for Earnest F
Fifth Third bank is 
proud to support 
small businesses in 
our communities.
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
ENVIRONMENT
CONSUMERS
COMMUNITIES
Fifth Third Bancorp12Products. “With the loan, we were able to maintain a strong working 
capital position while expanding into a new facility that quadrupled our 
size and allowed us to pursue new, larger customers.”
Fifth Third’s commitment to small 
businesses was recognized by Greenwich 
Associates as a “Best Brand in Small 
Business Banking” award winner in 2015. 
Fifth Third was one of 12 banks out of 
750 evaluated through the United States 
to receive the “Best Brand – Overall” 
designation. According to Greenwich Associates, the distinction is 
“awarded to providers that are statistically differentiated in earning 
consideration among customers and non-customers.”
Small Business Week
Issued as a presidential proclamation every 
year since 1963, National Small Business 
Week recognizes the critical contributions 
of America’s entrepreneurs and small 
business owners. This year, we worked to 
acknowledge the week by offering tips 
to small businesses to diagnose, develop 
and execute an effective working capital 
management plan.  
Kala Gibson, Fifth Third’s senior vice president and head of business 
banking, conducted a radio media tour to highlight the top five 
takeaways small business owners need to achieve long-term success. 
The radio media tour resulted in live radio interviews on two syndicated 
programs and 11 regional radio stations, reaching over 9.5 million 
listeners across our footprint. 
Fifth Third Bank (Chicago) led the Chicago Small Business Bus Tour, offering a myriad of 
resources to business owners and entrepreneurs. Utilizing the Fifth Third Bank Financial 
Empowerment Mobile (eBus) as a bridge to business owners and entrepreneurs, the Tour 
offered financial education, credit counseling, business counseling and information on how to 
access capital. In partnership with community organizations, the Chicago Small Business Bus 
Tour started with a ribbon-cutting ceremony and included a full-day agenda culminating with a 
business shark competition that resulted in the selection of three businesses to receive training 
and technical assistance. In addition, Fifth Third Bank (Chicago) provided Goodcity, a local 
partner, with a $5,300 grant to assist in providing start-up support to the three businesses 
selected. This initiative is an example of our numerous efforts that take place in support of 
small businesses.Fifth Third’s commitment to small 
businesses was recognized by 
Greenwich Associates as a “Best 
Brand in Small Business Banking” 
award winner in 2015.
13 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report*Lending subject to credit review and approval.Charitable Giving
The Fifth Third Foundation also makes grants 
in support of business development. In 2015, 
the Foundation made a $20,000 grant to 
Florida Gulf Coast University for the Fifth 
Third Bank Business Growth Acceleration 
Program. A $5,000 grant to The Edge 
Connection, Inc. in Georgia supported its 
business development program and a $9,000 
grant to the Michigan Small Business and 
Technology Development Center supported 
its Northwest Region’s Virtual Business 
Assistance Program.  
The Fifth Third Private Bank also makes an 
annual donation to charitable organizations to 
thank its clients for participating in a survey 
about how to best meet their needs. In 2015, 
the Private Bank donated $104,250 to eight 
national charities. They were: The American 
Cancer Society; DAV (Disabled American 
Veterans); Ronald McDonald House Charities, 
Inc.; the American Red Cross; American 
Heart Association; American Society for the 
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; Juvenile 
Diabetes Research Foundation International; 
and 17 regional divisions of United Way. The 
Private Bank has been making an annual 
donation on behalf of its clients for six years 
and the total donation amount is more than 
$479,000. Fifth Third Bank is the Nation’s 
Top SSBCI Lender.FIFTH THIRD BANK IS COMMITTED TO SMALL BUSINESSESNEARLY TWO OUT OF EVERY THREE JOBS 
CREATED IN THE U.S. ANNUALLY ARE 
ATTRIBUTED TO SMALL BUSINESSES*MORE THAN HALF OF AMERICANS 
EITHER OWN OR WORK FOR A SMALL 
BUSINESS, ACCORDING TO THE U.S. 
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION**
“It’s always an honor to be recognized as best in class, but the Greenwich 
Associates award is even more special because the evaluation comes 
directly from small business owners,” said Kala Gibson, senior vice president and head of business banking at Fifth Third Bank. “This recognition exhibits the impact of our eﬀort and commitment to helping our small business clients achieve their business goals.”“Best Brand in Small 
Business Banking”
—Greenwich Associates, November 2015PREFERRED LENDER
*U.S. Small Business Administration, January 15, 2015. 
https://www.sba.gov/blogs/small-businesses-create-2-million
-jobs
**https://www.sba.gov/nsbw/about
Fifth Third Bancorp14Fifth Third Bancorp14Our collaboration with Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C) illustrates how the needs of our business can be 
combined with a worthy cause to improve lives. In this case, our delivery of quality credit and debit cards, 
part of our Consumer Bank’s suite of products and services, has been linked in our offering of branded SU2C 
cards. These cards help to engage customers in the cause of raising funds to accelerate innovative cancer 
research, enabling scientific collaboration in order to get new therapies to patients quickly.
Since the collaboration began two years ago, Fifth 
Third has helped to raise more than $6 million 
in donations to SU2C. In 2015, our Company 
conducted a social campaign centered on 
#howifight and SU2C Nights at Minor League 
ballparks within our footprint. During the campaign, 
Fifth Third encouraged people to share stories on 
social media about how they fight cancer. Fifth 
Third donated $1 to SU2C for each eligible post 
using the #howifight hashtag. 
One in two men and one in three women in the United 
States will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime, 
according to statistics collected by the Surveillance 
Epidemiology and End Results program at the 
National Cancer Institute. To date, SU2C has funded 
162 clinical trials, enrolling more than 6,000 patients.Our SU2C MiLB nights demonstrated how our 
Bancorp priorities to fight cancer were amplified in 
our local markets.Fifth Third is Working Hard to Stand Up To CancerSPOTLIGHT
Above: This part of an employee performance in North 
Florida was a moving tribute to SU2C and all our Fifth Third 
family members who are currently fighting cancer.
Right: More than 20 Retail employees from the Georgia East 
Region (Atlanta) participated in the Teddy Bear Employee 
Engagement/SU2C Outing on Aug. 2. The team made 17 
teddy bears at the Mall of Georgia Build-A-Bear Workshop 
and then traveled to Egleston Children’s Hospital Cancer 
Unit in Atlanta to make the donation. The donation is to 
help provide children suffering from cancer a stuffed animal 
to hold for comfort as they receive their chemotherapy 
treatment; Employees in northeastern Ohio banking centers 
did their part in social media to promote the fight against 
cancer; SU2C Night special guest Calysta Bevier gets ready 
to deliver the lineup card with Toledo Mud Hens Manager 
Larry Parrish.
15 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportemployees
The employee members of our Fifth Third Bank family are the 
Company’s bridge to the community. In fact, they are the face 
of Fifth Third every time they assist a customer, volunteer on 
local boards and work together to deliver on our promise to be 
the one bank people most value and trust.   
n 2015, Gallup recognized Fifth Third Bank for 
the third time with its Gallup Great Workplace 
award. This prestigious honor acknowledges 
the degree to which employees feel connected, 
valued and supported in their workplace. 
Receiving the Gallup Award is a true testament 
to the efforts of Fifth Third Bank’s employees, 
managers and leadership team to actively 
build and sustain an engaging and inclusive  
environment, especially given that only 13 
percent of employees worldwide are engaged 
at work, according to Gallup’s 142-country study 
on the State of the Global Workplace.  
Many of Fifth Third’s regions, including 
Cincinnati, Central Ohio, Eastern Michigan, 
Indiana, Northeastern Ohio, Northwestern Ohio and Tennessee, were honored last year as Top 
Workplaces, as were many of our great leaders 
whose commitment to our Company and the 
community were significant and noteworthy.  
This recognition reflects our commitment 
to engagement and inclusion. We measure 
employee engagement each year through an 
Employee Viewpoints survey administered 
by Gallup. In 2015, survey results showed that 
employees share our commitment to sustaining 
our great workplace. Items that asked about 
employee engagement action plans received high 
marks, with 75 percent of workgroups achieving 
an overall score of 4 or higher on a 5-point scale. 
Inclusion index scores also show that employees 
feel respected and included at work. I
Fifth Third's employees 
are the company's 
bridge to the 
communities we serve.
EMPLOYEES
ENVIRONMENT
CONSUMERS
COMMUNITIES
BUSINESSES
Fifth Third Bancorp16Inclusion Councils and Business Resource 
Groups
Our Company is proud of our active inclusion 
councils and business resource groups (BRGs), 
which help to drive our employees’ sense 
of engagement and serve as a bridge into 
the communities we serve. For several years, 
these groups have been working to infuse 
engagement and inclusion into the work culture. 
The structure of the groups is designed to:
•	Drive accountability for both engagement 
and inclusion.
•	Aid in retention and recruitment.
•	Support career development.
•	Create a consistent way to share local best 
practices and foster collaboration.
•	Facilitate business networking among 
employees and senior leaders.
•	Leverage strengths to drive business results 
for the Bank.
In 2015, to help connect and present our 
councils and BRGs as one unified team, new 
logos and names were introduced to our 
communities. Historically, the names, logos and 
images of the BRGs were developed locally and 
were unique to each region. This limited the use 
of the names and identities to internal use only. 
Now, the Bank is pleased to present images to 
our communities that clearly tie to our Vision 
and brand while articulating clearly what the 
names of the BRGs represent.This shows the many diverse, raised and willing hands it 
takes to conduct the important work of leading the BRGs.
The logo represents Martin Luther King’s “I Have a Dream” 
speech that resonates both in the United States and with those 
from other countries in search of the American dream.The strong and thriving tree represents the 
perseverance of the group to succeed and overcome 
challenging circumstances.
This portrays the feeling of harmony and balance in the 
design using the yin and yang, and soothing colors.The American flag is symbolic of the respect and 
honor for those who serve our country.
The bright horizon gives the sense of a journey to a positive 
future of opportunity.This mosaic illustrates a diverse group coming together, 
keeping each individual’s valuable uniqueness.
The many hands working together represent a sense of 
connection and family and also represent many different 
Latino ethnicities from around the world.The bright ladder has no limits and depicts endless 
opportunities.
The rainbow flag of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender (LGBT) logo illustrates the diversity and 
vibrancy of the people included in the LGBT community.Here the abundance of energy is illustrated, which is 
channeled in many pursuits.
17 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportProject SEARCH
Fifth Third’s commitment to inclusion is 
evidenced by our years-long commitment 
to Project SEARCH, a school-to-work 
transition program for people with physical or 
developmental disabilities. Fifth Third Bank’s 
Project SEARCH program welcomed incoming 
classes in the fall of 2015 with 30 student 
interns—eight in downtown Cincinnati, 13 at the 
Madisonville campuses north of Cincinnati, and 
nine in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
To celebrate another successful year, the 10th 
annual Tee Off for Project SEARCH golf outing 
was held in September and raised $151,000 for 
the continued enhancement of the program. 
Over the past 10 years, the golf outing has 
raised $1 million for Project SEARCH. Since 
2005, Fifth Third Bank’s Project SEARCH 
program has provided interactive learning 
opportunities to 225 students.
“Having an active, engaged and important 
partner like Fifth Third is vital to the continued 
success of Project SEARCH,” said Erin Riehle, 
founder and director of Project SEARCH at 
Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. 
“The program provides meaningful vocational 
training and employment for people with 
disabilities. Fifth Third serves as a model and 
leader to other programs across the globe.”
Ellie Tobin, a Fifth Third Project SEARCH intern, 
said, “I wanted a challenge. That’s why I came 
to Fifth Third. My job coaches and instructor 
help me stand on my own two feet, build 
confidence in myself and say ‘I have my own job 
and I can do whatever anybody else can do.’” Fifth Third’s work on behalf of those with 
disabilities earned significant recognition in 
2015, including the Full Circle Brand Award 
from Ohio Excellence in Disability Inclusion; 
Disability Matters Award from Springboard 
Consulting, LLC.; and Champion of Opportunity 
Award presented by Opportunities for Ohioans 
with Disabilities.
Wellness
Just as we want to improve lives in the 
community, we also want to do our part to 
contribute to the physical, emotional and 
financial wellness of our employees. We do 
this because Fifth Third understands that our 
employees are our greatest asset.
Our wellness programs saw active participation 
in 2015—from our Humana Vitality program 
that rewards employees for positive actions 
taken on behalf of their physical and emotional 
health to the online financial wellness programs 
we made available, our employees took 
advantage of the tools provided.
In 2015, we were recognized as a Save 10 
Employer for our dedication to helping our 
employees successfully save for retirement. 
Save 10, a coalition of employers through the 
Financial Services Roundtable, empowers 
employers to help put their employees on the 
path to save, eventually saving a minimum of 10 percent of their income. In addition, Fifth Third 
was named an American Heart Association Fit-
Friendly Gold Worksite for offering employees 
physical activity support, increasing healthy 
eating options at work and promoting a 
wellness culture.  
Above: Project SEARCH students at the Tee Off for Project 
Search 2015 check presentation.
Above, lower: Fifth Third was proud to sponsor the 
ReelAbilities Film Festival last year. Established in 2007, 
ReelAbilities is the largest national film festival dedicated to 
the stories, lives and art of individuals with disabilities. The 
Bank was proud to lend its financial and volunteer resources 
to its Silver Popcorn sponsorship of the festival and the 
March 5 screening of Travis, A Soldier’s Story.
Fifth Third Bancorp18On the third day of the fifth month, 5/3 on the calendar, Fifth Third celebrates its unique day by helping 
to meet the basic and immediate needs of the communities we serve. The Bank’s regions work with food 
pantries and other like organizations to provide meals and collect personal care items. In many cases, 
employees work alongside volunteers from the non-profits to stock shelves, distribute the foodstuffs and 
package items for families. In 2015, Fifth Third helped provide more than 800,000 meals.  
In a special effort in North Florida called Fifth 
Third Feeding Families, employees and customers 
collected 227 barrels of food, the equivalent of 
36,320 meals, and fed 9,080 families throughout 
the Tampa Bay, Central Florida and Jacksonville 
markets. Teams commemorated Fifth Third Day by 
volunteering at Metropolitan Ministries in Tampa and 
Second Harvest Food Bank in Orlando to help sort 
the collected food and prepare meals for families 
in need (pictured above). That region’s community 
partners launched Summer of Dreams, a 10-week 
program that provides homeless students with 
meals, academic enrichment, mentoring and school 
supplies as well as financial empowerment for 
parents and students. 2015 marked the fifth year of 
Fifth Third sponsoring the program, and the goal 
was to raise enough funding, food and supplies to send 2,000 children in Central Florida to camp 
during the summer gap, when school food and 
services are often not available.Feeding Our Communities on Fifth Third DaySPOTLIGHT
Employee Volunteers 
As an extension of our Company in the 
community, our employees play a vital role 
in our community support. In addition to 
spending several days in May working to 
end hunger in our communities through our 
Feeding Our Communities campaign in which 
we provided over 800,000 meals, employee 
volunteers also worked during local United Way 
Days of Caring throughout our markets. In 2015, 
the Bank’s employee and corporate gifts to 
United Way were $7.8 million.
Volunteers also worked as tutors for the 
Be the Change recruitment initiative in our 
headquarters market of Cincinnati. Be the 
Change is an effort led by Cincinnati Public 
Schools, the Strive Partnership and  
United Way of Greater Cincinnati to utilize 
1,000 volunteer tutors in Cincinnati Public 
elementary schools for math and reading. 
For the 2015-2016 school year, 38 Fifth Third 
Bank Leadership Program participants are 
volunteering in two local schools. 
Fifth Third Day activities in Cincinnati included making 
Power Packs for the Freestore Foobank on Fountain Square. 
Each Power Pack provides a child food for a weekend.11,000,000,000
EMpLOyEE STEp SOvEr
19 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportenvironmental
sustainability
Environmental sustainability helped Fifth Third build bridges within our 
Company and in the community in 2015. We formed an Environmental 
Sustainability Council to engage a broader cross-section of the Bank’s 
management on emerging environmental issues. We also worked to 
find better and more efficient solutions for our employees, customers 
and shareholders.  
ur commitment to environmental 
sustainability also leads us to support 
organizations that build bridges 
between companies, non-profit organizations 
and government. We do this because we know 
that the economy and the communities can 
and must become more sustainable and we 
know we will go faster and farther by  
working together.
Energy Consumption and Emissions
As a large operator of facilities, we continue 
to build stronger connections with existing 
and new partners to help us reduce our 
carbon footprint. In 2015, we continued the 
installation of digital controls, lighting sensors and new HVAC equipment at our headquarters 
buildings in Cincinnati. We also worked to 
boost the energy efficiency of our entire portfolio of buildings through energy audits 
and re-commissioning. Finally, we conducted 
due diligence on upgrading interior lighting 
and implementing targeted HVAC controls in 
our banking centers. These efforts, helped by 
mild weather in most of our footprint, led to reductions in energy use and built a foundation 
for further reductions.
As a result, in 2015, electricity consumption at 
facilities where Fifth Third receives an energy 
bill was 61 million kilowatt-hours (26.4 percent) 
lower than our baseline year of 2007. These 
facilities also reduced natural gas consumption O
Fifth Third works 
to find better and 
efficient solutions for 
the environment.
ENVIRONMENT
CONSUMERS
COMMUNITIES
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
Fifth Third Bancorp 20by 253,000 million British thermal units (52.4 
percent) relative to 2007. Based on average 
emissions factors for electric power and natural 
gas in the United States, these energy savings 
correspond to a reduction in 2015 carbon 
dioxide equivalent emissions of 61,600 metric 
tons (38.0 percent) relative to 2007.
As part of our 2015 submission to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP), our Scope 1, Scope 
2 and some components of our Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions were independently 
verified to ensure the integrity of our 
methodology. The verification, along with our 
Board-adopted Environmental Sustainability Policy and the formation of an Environmental 
Sustainability Council, helped us earn a CDP 
disclosure score of 94 on a 100-point scale. We 
continue to monitor climate change-related 
developments as we work to improve our 
ability to manage the risks and opportunities 
related to climate change.Green Building 
Four new Fifth Third financial centers earned 
the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) recognition in 2015, including 
two that earned LEED Silver. We now have 27 
LEED-certified banking centers.
Fifth Third also used the relocation of Fifth 
Third Bank (Eastern Michigan) headquarters 
to Detroit’s iconic One Woodward Building 
as a way to invest in and reconnect with 
this important American city. The late 2015 
move also transferred our employees into 
a collaborative, modern workplace that is 
inspiring our employees to do their best work 
and contribute to this resurgence. 
The new office space provides all employees 
with access to daylight and breathtaking 
views of the city by using open floor plan 
Above: New office space in Detroit’s One Woodward Building.
Above, lower: In late August volunteers from our Eastern 
Michigan region spent the afternoon harvesting vegetables at 
the Cadillac Urban Garden in Southwest Detroit. Because the 
land is contaminated in this area, the entire garden is grown 
above ground in steel containers that once were used to ship 
General Motors car engines. The garden is open daily so the 
neighbors in this low- to moderate-income tract can come and 
pick what they need, and baskets of produce are put out daily 
for anyone in need to take home. Pictured is Senior Private 
Banker Krista Pankopf with the tomato plants.Electricity and natural gas 
consumption directly billed by 
utilities  
(Million BTU)Greenhouse gas emissions from 
energy directly billed by utilities 
(Scope 1 & 2)  
(Metric Tons Carbon Dioxide Equivalent, 
CO2e)
2007  1,271,050  161,936 
2011  946,230  126,036 
2015  810,450  100,338 
% reduction from 2007 -36.2% -38.0%Fifth Third Bank, Energy consumption directly billed by utilities
21 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFifth Third Bancorp22
the quantity of waste sent to the landfill. 
Through a combination of secure shred 
programs (for non-public information), multiple 
recycling programs and a cafeteria-based 
compost program, the campus diverted 90 
percent of its waste from the landfill in 2015. 
The campus’ strong recycling programs earned 
it Honoree recognition at the 2015 Green 
Business Awards presented by the Cincinnati 
Business Courier and the Cincinnati Regional 
Chapter of the U.S. Green Building Council.
Transportation
In the fall of 2015, our Madisonville Campus was 
recognized as an inaugural Gold member of 
the Transit-Friendly Destination (TFD) Program 
launched by Green Umbrella®, the regional neighborhoods and flexible workspace. This new, more space-efficient environment reduces 
our need for office space by 40 percent or 
more and investments in LED lighting, new 
HVAC equipment and automatic window 
shades are helping to make the space even 
more energy-efficient. The new office also 
includes environmentally friendly features such 
as finishes with high recycled content and/or  
low VOCs along with high-efficiency  
plumbing fixtures.
Waste Reduction and Recycling
The roughly 5,000 employees at our 
Madisonville campus continue to inspire the 
Company by showing that comprehensive 
recycling programs can substantially reduce We supported 
renewable energy 
by purchasing 
67.8 million 
kilowatt-hours 
of renewable energy certificates (RECs). 
Equivalent to 30 percent of our projected 
electricity consumption at owned and leased 
facilities, the RECs were from the Shooting 
Star Wind Farm in Kansas. 
This purchase led the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency to recognize Fifth Third Bank as a Green Power Partner and as a 
member of EPA’s Green Power Leadership 
Club. We also were ranked as the 23rd 
largest purchaser of green power in EPA’s 
October 2015 Fortune 500® Partners List.
Rubicon Global, just named 
one of Fast Company’s “Most 
Innovative Companies in the 
World,” has a mission to end 
waste. Through its cloud-
based platform, businesses 
of all sizes are reducing the environmental and 
social impact of waste while also reducing 
costs. Rubicon’s technology empowers 
independent haulers and recyclers to grow 
their businesses and participate in this market-
driven global movement. 
Fifth Third Capital Holdings, Fifth Third’s Private Equity Group, has helped to finance Rubicon. Its co-founder and CEO Nate Morris 
said, “It means a great deal to us to have 
Fifth Third behind us in creating a future 
without landfills.”Renewable Energy
InvestmentsSPOTLIGHT
Fifth Third Bancorp 22
0100200300400500600700800
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015Waste sent to Landﬁll (Tons)Fifth Third Bank Madisonville Landfill Shipments, 2011-2015
23
2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
sustainability alliance for 
Greater Cincinnati. This 
program recognized 
the campus for specific 
measures, including its 
accessibility to transit and 
sidewalks, inclusion of 
regional transit providers in our benefits fair, 
and sharing of updated transit information 
through our intranet website. Through our 
participation in the TFD program, we were able 
to build new connections inside our Company, 
with the region’s transit providers, and we 
made it easier for our employees to get to and 
from work.
Advancing Sustainability 
Fifth Third also supports sustainability 
organizations that build connections across 
our communities. As a founding member of the Greater Cincinnati Green Business 
Council (GCGBC), we helped promote the 
sharing of best practices by serving as the 
past president in 2015. Last year our director 
of environmental affairs also became the 
president of the Board of Trustees of Green 
Umbrella®, the regional sustainability alliance 
for Greater Cincinnati. As board president, he 
helped the organization continue to grow by hiring a new executive director, improving its 
financial management systems and focusing on 
improving collaboration through action teams, 
key initiatives and events. Through the kinds 
of partnerships these organizations create, we 
believe our communities will be better able to 
innovate, improve the environment, grow the 
economy and boost quality of life in ways that 
benefit us all. The Evolution of Recycling 
at Fifth Third Bank
TODAY
Recycling in 89 percent of ﬁnancial centers 
owned by Fifth ThirdSEPTEMBER  2010
Employee-led Green 
Team leads eﬀort to 
begin recycling program
2011
First LEED branch built 
to incorporate recycling
2011
Recycling program 
launched at 
Madisonville Campus
APRIL 2012
Recycling begins at Fifth 
Third Center in Cincinnati2013
Recycling roll-out to 
ﬁnancial centers begins2013
1,045 ﬁnancial centers 
oﬀered recycling2014
1,194 ﬁnancial centers 
oﬀered recycling
Fifth Third Bancorp24
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company 
headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Company has $141 
billion in assets and operates 1,254 full-service Banking Centers, 
including 95 Bank Mart® locations, most open seven days a week, 
inside select grocery stores and 2,593 ATMs in Ohio, Kentucky, 
Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, West Virginia, 
Pennsylvania, Missouri, Georgia and North Carolina. Fifth Third 
operates four main businesses: Commercial Banking, Branch 
Banking, Consumer Lending and Investment Advisors. Fifth Third 
also has an 18.3% interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC. Fifth Third is 
among the largest money managers in the Midwest and, as of 
December 31, 2015, had $297 billion in assets under care, of which 
it managed $26 billion for individuals, corporations and not-for-
profit organizations. Investor information and press releases can be viewed at www.53.com. Fifth Third’s common stock is traded 
on the NASDAQ® Global Select Market under the symbol “FITB.” 
Fifth Third Bank was established in 1858. 
Member FDIC. 
 Equal Housing Lender.2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Reportbuilding bridges
COMMUNITIES
ENVIRONMENT
CONSUMERS
 BUSINESSES
 EMPLOYEES
PRINTED  ON RECYCLED  PAPER