Environmental, 
Social & 
Governance Report
THE VALUE OF SUSTAINABILITY
Contents
A Message from the Chairman,  Section III: Social (Continued)
President & CEO  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Employees   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
A Message from the Board of Directors  . . . . . . . . . . 6• Compensation and Benefits
About this Report   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8• Recruiting  
Our Approach to ESG   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 • Development
• Performance ManagementAwards & Accolades   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12• Employee Engagement
ESG Highlights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14• Workplace Safety and Security
Communities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Section I: Economic • Community Advisory Forum
• Community Reinvestment Act PerformancePurpose and Values   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17• Community Needs Assessment
Corporate and Economic Profile   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18 • Financial & Economic Inclusion
Sustainable Financial Performance  —Small Business Lending
and Business Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 —Affordable Housing
—Neighborhood StabilizationMarkets Served   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
—Financial Education
Responsible Banking   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23—Economic Inclusion Services and Banking Deserts
Empowering Customers   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 —Workforce Development
• Corporate Citizenship and PhilanthropyCommunity Commitment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Section IV: EnvironmentSection II: Governance
Climate Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94Corporate Governance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Operational Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95Business Ethics   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Green Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98Public Policy and Government Relations  . . . . . . . . . 37
Risk Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99Enterprise Risk Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Accelerating the Transition  Consumer Privacy and Information Security   . . . . . 42
to a Sustainable Future   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Third-Party Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 • $8 Billion Sustainable Finance Goal
Environmental Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107Section III: Social
COVID-19 Pandemic Response   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46Section V: GRI Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Inclusion and Diversity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
• Action against Racism Section VI: SASB Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123 
• Employee Demographics
• Multicultural Recruitment Strategy Section VII: TCFD Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
• Individuals with Disabilities  
• Veterans
• Business Resource Groups
• Supplier Diversity
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 3  A M  ESSA   GE F  RO   M T   H E C HAIRMA   N, P  R  ESID E   N T & C EO
Greg D. Carmichael
Chairman, President & CEO, Fifth Third BancorpI want to thank all of 
our stakeholders for 
the opportunity to 
earn your trust and 
create value. It’s our 
privilege to improve the 
lives of customers and 
the well-being of our 
communities. 
We do this by keeping the 
customer at the center of 
everything we do, staying 
focused on our core business of 
banking and executing on key 
strategic priorities. 
This is our inaugural Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Report. It’s a publication that 
builds upon the Fifth Third Bancorp 2019 annual 
report to shareholders , as well as the community-
focused corporate social responsibility reports of 
previous years. 
This ESG Report broadens the aperture to include 
more stakeholders and allows for a deeper focus on 
economic impact and ESG data and metrics. There is 
value in voluntarily reporting this information. It gives 
all of our stakeholders—customers, communities, 
employees, shareholders and regulators—further 
insight into our values and provides a public forum 
to report on our progress toward stated goals. A 
more refined focus on ESG matters provides a 
unique opportunity to take stock of what our 
stakeholders value, and what we, in turn, can 
deliver to help make the world a better place.  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainab ility 4There is real value in sustainability . The term 
sustainability often is associated with 
environmental policy, but it’s more than that to 
us. We have an eye on sustainability with every 
business decision we make . Building sustainable, 
scalable programs, products and services is how we 
have a transformative, generational impact on our 
communities . We consider the long-term potential 
impacts of our community-based programs: whether 
they are designed to address the affordable housing 
gap in minority communities, how best to provide 
technical assistance to small businesses now and in the future, or optimizing the delivery of financial and 
workplace training to establish a firm foundation that 
will endure through generations . 
Setting long-term goals for ESG performance, 
including governance, inclusion, workplace policy 
and the environment, will help Fifth Third outperform 
over the long haul . It’s about doing well by doing 
good.  By focusing on sustainability, our Bank—and 
everything around us—will be healthier for it . 
The pandemic of 2020 has only strengthened our 
resolve. Our commitment has been to help sustain 
individuals, families, businesses and communities 
during these most challenging of times. Among 
other efforts, we:
• Helped thousands of our small business clients 
access critical capital through the Small Business 
Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program .
• Worked to serve customers seven days a week 
through our mobile application and online banking sites and provided in-branch service through 
drive-thru windows and by appointment . 
• Paid up to $1,000 bonuses to on-site 
customer service employees and took critical 
protective measures . 
• Committed $8 .75 million in philanthropic grants 
for COVID-19 relief, recovery and resiliency efforts .  
Our country also reeled from civil unrest caused 
by a series of incidents involving Black Americans. 
The social justice outcry gave us an opportunity 
to reassess whether we were doing enough to 
make a difference. We first had to accept and admit 
that there is a systemic problem, that we haven’t 
always gotten it right, and to recommit to doing 
better . We responded with an unequivocal public 
statement against racism in any form, then worked 
with our employees and communities to deliver on our commitment to be a part of the solution . We 
assembled a new Executive Diversity Leadership 
Council, comprised of our chief inclusion and diversity 
officer and other senior leaders from across the 
Company, charged with ensuring equality and inclusion 
in our workplace, particularly for Black employees .   
Over the course of 2019 and into 2020, we undertook 
actions to create significant positive impact for our 
employees and our communities . We increased 
our minimum wage to $18 an hour in August 2019, 
marking a 50% increase in less than two years to help our hourly employees improve their quality 
of life. In 2020, we fully delivered on the five-year 
Community Commitment we made in 2016—funding 
more than $35 .5 billion in mortgage, small business, 
and community development loans and investments . 
On the environmental front, we powered up a 100% 
renewable solar power facility, becoming the first 
Fortune 500 company to achieve 100% renewable 
power through a single project  . Three of the five 
bold sustainability goals we set to accomplish by 2022 have been achieved and we published 
a climate-related financial disclosure document 
outlining our climate strategy in 2019 . We also established a Renewable Energy Finance group and 
set a Company-wide sustainable financing goal of 
$8 billion to be achieved by 2025.  
We celebrated the acquisition and integration of MB 
Financial in Chicago, welcoming many new individual 
and business customers to the Fifth Third family . 
We now have the third largest branch presence in 
that market, greatly increasing our visibility and 
opportunities for community involvement .
In 2019, we learned that Newsweek included us in 
its inaugural list of America’s Most Responsible 
Companies . This is a testament to the way we live our 
commitment to corporate citizenship . It also is but a 
mile marker on our journey to generate sustainable 
value for our stakeholders . Thank you for working 
with us for the bett e
rment of all. 
Sincerely,
Greg D. Carmichael
Chairman, President & CEO 
September 2020
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 5A MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS
Welcome to our inaugural 
environmental, social and 
governance report. We are pleased 
to be able to share this information 
with you regarding our strong and 
growing ESG programs , which 
the Board is actively engaged in 
overseeing as an integral part of 
Fifth Third’s long-term strategy to 
generate sustainable value for all 
our stakeholders, including our 
shareholders, customers, employees, 
communities and regulators.In 2019, we continued to expand our commitment 
to be transparent regarding our activities in this 
area with the publication of our first Climate-
related Financial Disclosure Report , informed 
by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) . This report provides key 
information regarding Fifth Third’s climate related 
activities . In 2020, Fifth Third is continuing to deliver 
on our commitment through the publication of this 
inaugural ESG Report, which includes expanded 
information regarding our broader ESG activities . 
Our Board also continued to deepen its engagement 
with ESG management . Nine of our 15 directors 
are experienced in ESG matters. In addition, the 
Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance 
(NCG) Committee, which is responsible for 
overseeing Fifth Third’s ESG strategies and 
disclosures, is comprised entirely of independent 
directors and is now advised by a dedicated ESG 
Committee that was created in 2020 . The ESG Committee, and related entities, focus on Fifth 
Third’s ESG practices and reporting with respect to 
environmental topics, such as climate change, our inclusion and diversity programs and strategy, and other corporate social responsibilities that are of 
significance to our business and stakeholders . 
Fifth Third’s initiatives include the ongoing 
benchmarking of our disclosures to established 
ESG frameworks, including the Global Reporting 
Initiative , Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board  and the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals , as well as the TCFD . 
Over the years, the Board has continued 
to oversee corporate culture as well as our 
ongoing commitment to promote and foster 
an intentionally inclusive, diverse and thriving 
environment at all levels—Board, employees and 
suppliers—as shown by our Diversity Statement . 
Additionally, the Board reviewed and approved 
our newly-created Environmental and Social Policy, 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 6Human Rights Statement  and revisions to the 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which are available on 
our Investor Relations website  . 
Although the NCG Committee formally oversees 
ESG for Fifth Third, all Board committees—and all 
employees—collectively have a responsibility to 
contribute to generating sustainable value for our 
stakeholders . This includes understanding Fifth 
Third’s ESG goals, as well as incorporating the 
consideration of ESG principles into Fifth Third’s 
operations and business . Specifically, with respect 
to the Board’s committees, some of the key 
responsibilities related to certain ESG matters are 
highlighted below:
• Audit Committee : responsible for overseeing  
the integrity of our financial reporting and  
governance programs .
• Human Capital and Compensation Committee : 
responsible for overseeing strategies and policies regarding compensation, talent management, and succession planning and other employment practices  .
• Risk and Compliance Committee : responsible 
for overseeing risk management practices, including ESG topics, such as information security and data privacy  .
• Technology Committee: responsible for overseeing our technology, information security and data privacy strategies, which are critical to the interests of all our stakeholders  .
As a Board, we recognize the value of 
sustainability for each stakeholder and 
Fifth Third’s important role in society, 
both today and in the future. Sincerely,
Marsha C. Williams  
Lead Independent Director
Eilee
n A. Mallesch  
Audit Committee Chair
Michae
l B. McCallister  
Human Capital and Compensation Committee Chair
Nich
olas K. Akins  
Nominating and Corporate Governance  
Committee Chair
Emer
son L. Brumback
Risk and Compliance Committee Chair  
Jorg
e L. Be
nitez 
Technology Committee Chair
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 7ABOUT THIS REPORT
Fifth Third has produced comprehensive and award-winning 
community impact reports for several decades. Doing so was a key 
driver in our ability to share progress toward our purpose: to improve 
the lives of customers and the well-being of communities. 
Our commitment to that purpose is steadfast, and it’s important to 
demonstrate it through reports such as this. 
This document uses a wider lens than past reports, 
with more data-driven information related to 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts 
and more information about our overall economic 
impact. From a data perspective, the report covers 
the period of Jan . 1-Dec . 31, 2019, unless otherwise 
noted, and the narrative includes progress updates 
through June 30, 2020, where possible and unless 
otherwise noted .  
It’s important to note that the goals discussed in 
this report are aspirational . We cannot guarantee or 
promise that these goals will be met . Statistics and 
metrics in these disclosures include estimates and may be based on assumptions .  
This report uses certain terms, including “material” 
topics, to reflect the issues of greatest importance to Fifth Third and our stakeholders . Used in this context, these terms are distinct from, and 
should not be confused with, the terms “material” 
and “materiality” as defined by or construed in accordance with securities law or as used in the 
context of financial statements and reporting . 
This report is a first step in our commitment to 
enhance voluntary disclosures around material ESG 
topics . Please review this report as a companion to our 2019 annual report to shareholders . Taken together, these documents demonstrate our 
commitment to generating sustainable value through 
robust reporting, transparency and accountability .
Thank you for accompanying us on this journey.  
We welcome your feedback. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 8OUR APPROACH TO ESG
Since our last community report in April 2019, we formalized our 
governance structure by establishing an ESG Committee and 
conducting a thorough materiality assessment through external 
stakeholder outreach. 
This report has been prepared 
in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative  (GRI)
Standards’ core option and 
includes the general disclosures 
as well as topic-specific 
disclosures relevant to Fifth 
Third . In addition, baseline 
reporting priorities were benchmarked against 
other established reporting frameworks such as 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
(SASB), TCFD  and the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals  (UNSDGs).  
In March 2020, we became the first U .S . commercial 
bank to join the SASB Alliance . We also became a 
member of the GRI Community and a TCFD Supporter .
In March 2020, Fifth Third 
Bank became the first U.S. commercial bank to join the SASB Alliance .
Fifth Third undertook a process in 2020 to  
evaluate the environmental, social and  
governance topics that are most material to our 
Company through discussions with executive 
leaders and our stakeholders . We distributed 
a survey to representatives from stakeholder 
groups as well as engaged in two-way and other 
communications with our stakeholders as  
described on the next page .GENERATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE
Customers                      Em
ployees                     Regulators                         Communities                    Shareholders          
Generating 
Sustainable
ValueEnvironmental               Social                    Governance              Economic
Based on the feedback received, the topics were 
evaluated and prioritized according to their 
relative degree of importance  . It is important to 
note that all issues listed are important to Fifth Third . 
We used the results of our materiality assessment to 
guide our disclosure alignment to GRI, SASB, TCFD 
and the UNSDGs . 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 9OUR APPROACH TO ESG (CONTINUED)
Methods of Engagement Priority Topics
ShareholdersAnnual shareholder meeting, quarterly earnings 
calls, investor conferences and presentations, 
meetings with investor relations team and 
executive management, SEC filings and dedicated 
investor relations websiteBusiness ethics and responsible banking; 
Sustainable financial performance and 
business strategy; Corporate governance 
guidelines and practices; Customer privacy 
and information security
CustomersFocus groups, conversations through branch 
interactions and phone calls, satisfaction surveys, 
social media interactions, customer helplines and 
corporate websiteBusiness ethics and responsible banking; 
Sustainable financial performance and 
business strategy; Customer privacy and 
information security; Inclusion and diversity
EmployeesEngagement survey, executive leadership 
communications, learning programs,  
performance and development initiatives and 
corporate intranetBusiness ethics and responsible banking; 
Inclusion and diversity; Employee engagement  
and development; Sustainable financial 
performance and business strategy
CommunitiesCommunity Advisory Forum (national and five 
statewide groups in Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, Florida 
and North Carolina), community needs survey and 
assessments, financial education and outreach 
programs, philanthropic investments, civic 
memberships, volunteerism and non-profit board 
engagement and corporate websiteCommunity financial and economic inclusion; 
Inclusion and diversity; Business ethics and 
responsible banking; Corporate citizenship 
and philanthropy
 
RegulatorsExams, continuous monitoring and other meetings 
with senior management, interactions through 
regulatory affairs and government affairs teams 
and regulator-sponsored events and initiativesSustainable financial performance and  
business strategy; Enterprise risk 
management; Customer privacy and 
information security; Corporate governance 
guidelines and practices; Sustainable financingStakeholder Engagement
Priority High Priority Highest Priority
• Corporate citizenship and 
philanthropy
• Climate strategy and 
operational eco-efficiency 
• Public policy and government 
relations
• Third-party management• Corporate governance 
guidelines and practices
• Community financial and 
economic inclusion
• Sustainable financing
• Employee engagement and 
development• Sustainable financial 
performance and business 
strategy
• Business ethics and 
responsible banking
• Enterprise risk management
• Customer privacy and 
information security
• Inclusion and diversityMateriality Assessment
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 10UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the 
planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere . The 17 goals were adopted by all UN 
member states in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which set out a 15-year plan to 
achieve the goals . 
At Fifth Third, we believe we have a role to play in all 17 UNSDGs. We have identified 10, however, that 
align especially well with our ESG priorities. Already, we have formulated strategies and actions to make 
progress on these goals: 
1No Poverty   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pages 68  | 72 | 83 | 84 | 88
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pages 48  | 86
 . . . . . . . . . . Pages 54  | 64  | 76 | 78
 . . .Pages 23  | 36 | 49  | 62 | 65 | 91
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 105
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 94
 . . . . . . Pages 47  | 60  | 72 | 83 | 88
 . . . . . . . Pages 23  | 36 | 49  | 62 | 81
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 95
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 942Zero Hunger   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4Q
uality Education   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5Gender Equality   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6Clean Water and Sanitation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7Affordable and Clean Energy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8Decent Work and Economic Growth    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 Reduced Inequalities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 Responsible Consumption and Production   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13 Climate Action   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 11AWARDS & 
ACCOLADES
Fifth Third’s progress is 
being recognized.  
From 1/1/2019–6/30/2020, 
our efforts yielded the 
following awards:ECONOMIC
Kiplinger’s  
Best Regional Bank
A+ in Financial Health, 
DepositAccounts.com
J.D. Power U.S. Banking
Mobile App SatisfactionBank Director’s No. 1 Best 
Technology Strategy Tearsheet’s Most  
Resilient Traditional 
Financial Institution
SOCIAL
Forbes’ Best Employers  
for DiversityDiversity Best  
Practices Inclusion IndexBloomberg  
Gender Equality Index
America’s Top Corporations 
for Women’s Business 
EnterprisesHuman Rights Campaign 
Foundation Corporate 
Equality IndexNewsweek’s America’s 
Most Responsible  
Companies
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 12Ethisphere’s  
World’s Most Ethical  
Companies
Bank Director’s No. 1  
Best Corporate Citizen
Dave Thomas Foundation 
for Adoption 100 Best 
Adoption-friendly 
Workplaces
Women’s Business 
Enterprise National 
Council Top CorporationBest Places to Work, 
2020 Disability  
Equality IndexBest Place to Work,  
LGBT Equality
ENVIRONMENTAL
CDP 2019  
Climate Leadership  
score of A-Solar Energy Industries 
Association Top 
10 Corporate Solar 
Purchaser AwardClean Energy Champion, 
Conservatives for Clean 
Energy and Chambers for 
Innovation & Clean Energy
Green Achievement Award,  
Green Energy OhioRenewable Energy Hero,  
Green UmbrellaGOVERNANCE
Winning “W” Company, 
2020 Women on Boards
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 1313ESG HIGHLIGHTS*
Ensuring Economic Growth
$18 
mimimum wage
19,869  employees**
53,000  fee-free ATMs
5.4$B in PPP loans††
156,000  
customer hardship requests 
executed1
$11.1 B  
small business lending†
$13.8 B  
mortgage lending†2017: $12/HOUR 2019: $18/HOURPromoting Inclusion & 
Diversity
60 %
women in wor 
kf 
orce
27%
persons of co 
l 
or in workforce
3 %
boar3
d gender 
 d 
iversity2
$63 M  
diverse supplier spend††
Becoming an Employer of Choice
640,000  
hours of training and education provided  
to employees; 32.5 hours per employee74%  
employee engagement for customer-facing employees
*Data is for fiscal year 2019 or as of December 31, 2019 unless specified otherwise.
**full-time equivalent employees†Fifth Third’s $32 billion Community Commitment pledge was made in 2016 and was for a duration of 
five years, from Jan. 1, 2016 through Dec. 31, 2020. Figures reported here are as of June 30, 2020.  
††Falls under and/or also included, in full or in part, under Community Commitment figures. See †.   
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 14Investing in Our 
Communities
$35.5 B  
community commitment delivered 
2016-2020†
$8.75 M  
pledged for COVID-19 relief††
“Outstanding”  
CRA rating
$11.2 M  
down payment assistance††
$356.6 M  
Community Development Corporation closed projects††
2.5 M  
people financially educated since 2004
147,293  
hours community service (~$3.7 M equiv.)
$7M raised for United Way††
5.2 M meals provided3
$17.8 M charitable donations††
$100 M investment in 
Opportunity Zones announced††Advancing  
Sustainability
$8B  
Sustainable Financing goal announced
100%  
renewable energy achieved  (August 2019)
A-  
CDP Leadership score
 16%  
energy consumption since 2014
 22%  
water consumption since 2014
 86%  
GHG emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) since 2014***
††Falls under and/or also included, in full or in part, under Community Commitment figures. See †.   
1Figures are fiscal year 2020 through June. 
2As of July 20, 2020.3In 2019 and 2020.
***Market-based method; See “GHG Accounting: Expanding Scope 1, 2 and 3 Reporting” on page 96 and 
Environmental Data table on page 107.
15 Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of SustainabilityECONOMICECONOMIC
Purpose and Values  
Corporate and Economic Profile
Sustainable Financial Performance and 
Business Strategy
Markets ServedResponsible BankingEmpowering Customers
Community Commitment
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 16Purpose  
and Values
ECONOMIC
The Fifth Third Compass 
provides the strategic direction 
we need to serve our customers 
and accomplish our objectives 
through alignment and ownership .
Our actions are led by our Core Values 
and guide us as we work with customers 
and each other. 
• Work As One Bank —Proactively collaborate to 
achieve shared goals .
• Take Accountability —Own what you do . Speak up 
if something feels wrong, looks wrong or is wrong .
• Be Respectful & Inclusive —Respect diversity . 
Fully integrate ideas from varying perspectives .
• Act with Integrity —Be honest . Be fair . Do the 
right thing .Our strategic actions help us make 
decisions among competing demands, 
test the soundness of our actions and set 
boundaries within which we must operate. 
They include:
• Build a Stronger Community —Effect positive 
change . Empower the underserved . Be actively 
engaged .
• Provide Better Solutions —Drive product and 
service innovation . Provide a world-class customer experience, every single time .
• Strive for Operational Excellence —Do quality 
work . Be efficient . Perform through the cycle .
• Continuously Manage Risk —Challenge ideas . Test 
soundness . Promptly escalate issues . 
Our Vision is personal. It’s about showing our customers 
that we provide something different, something of value— 
because without our customers, we would not exist.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 17CORPORATE & ECONOMIC PROFILE
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company headquartered in 
Cincinnati, Ohio, and the indirect parent company of Fifth Third Bank, National 
Association, a federally chartered institution. 
Fifth Third Bank, established in 1858, operates four main businesses: Commercial Banking, 
Branch Ba n
king, Consumer Lending, and Wealth & Asset Management and is among the 
largest money managers in the Midwest . Investor information and news releases can be 
viewed at 53.com  . Fifth Third’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq® Global Select 
Market under the symbol “FITB .”
Highlights*
$2.5 B
2019 FULL YEAR  
NET INCOME$203 B
IN ASSETS$405 B
IN ASSETS  
UNDER CARE**
$49B
IN ASSETS UNDER 
MANAGEMENT**9.72 %
COMMON EQUITY  
TIER 1 CAPITAL RATIO19,869
FULL-TIME  EQUIVALENT  
EMPLOYEES***
*As of June 30, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
**Assets under management and assets under care include trust and brokerage assets.***As of Dec. 31, 2019.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 18BRANCH BANKING
Branch Banking provides a full range of deposit 
and loan products to individuals and small 
businesses through 1,122 full-service banking 
centers.  Products include checking and savings 
accounts, home equity loans and lines of credit, 
credit cards and loans for automobiles, and 
other personal financing needs . Products also 
are designed to meet the specific needs of small 
businesses, including cash management services .
CONSUMER LENDING
Consumer Lending includes residential mortgage, 
automobile and other indirect lending activities.  
Residential mortgage activities within Consumer 
Lending include the origination, retention and 
servicing of residential mortgage loans, the sales 
and securitizations of those loans, pools of loans, 
and all associated hedging activities . Residential 
mortgages are primarily originated through a 
dedicated sales force and through third-party 
correspondent lenders . Automobile and other indirect lending activities include extending loans 
to consumers through automobile, motorcycle, 
powersport, recreational and marine dealers .A Next Generation retail banking center.
CO MMERCIAL BANKING
Commercial Banking offers credit intermediation, 
cash management and financial services to large 
and middle-market businesses and government and 
professional customers.  In addition to the traditional 
lending and depository offerings, Commercial 
Banking products and services include global cash  
management, foreign exchange and international 
trade finance, derivatives and capital markets services, 
asset-based lending, real estate finance, public 
finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance .
WEALTH AND ASSET MANAGEMENT 
Wealth and Asset Management provides a full 
range of investment alternatives for individuals, 
companies and not-for-profit organizations.  
Wealth and Asset Management is made up of four 
main businesses: Fifth Third Securities (FTS), an 
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Fifth Third 
Bancorp; Fifth Third Insurance Agency; Fifth Third 
Private Bank; and Fifth Third Institutional Services . 
FTS offers full-service retail brokerage services 
to individual clients and broker-dealer services to 
the institutional marketplace . Fifth Third Insurance 
Agency assists clients with their financial and risk 
management needs . Fifth Third Private Bank offers 
wealth management strategies to high net worth and 
ultra-high net worth clients through wealth planning, 
investment management, banking, insurance, trust 
and estate services . Fifth Third Institutional Services 
provides advisory services for institutional clients, 
including middle market businesses, nonprofits, 
states and municipalities . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 19ECONOMICSustainable Financial 
Performance and  
Business Strategy
Strategic planning at Fifth Third is a critical aspect of 
our ability to generate long term sustainable value, 
as the outcomes of the planning process guide the 
priorities and investment focus of the Company over 
a multi-year period.  
The strategic planning process is designed to deliver a shared 
understanding of our Vision, objectives, tactics, and target outcomes, 
while maintaining risk excellence and strong governance mechanisms.  
That shared understanding spans our Board of Directors and 
management and our front-line staff, enabling effective governance and 
clarity of purpose on our strategic priorities .
FIFTH THIRD’S STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
ACCELERATE DIGITAL 
TRANSFORMATIONINVEST TO DRIVE 
ORGANIC GROWTH & 
PROFITABILITYEXPAND MARKET  
SHARE IN KEY 
GEOGRAPHIESMAINTAIN  
DISCIPL
INE
Clearly defined strategic priorities, proactive balance sheet 
management and ongoing discipline position us well for the future.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 20 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 ACCELERATE DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 
We are committed to accelerating our digital 
transformation  At the same time, we continue to 
modernize, simplify and rationalize our systems and 
infrastructure  Investments in these projects, and in 
digital technologies overall, enable us to provide 
solutions that are innovative, convenient and 
meaningful  in h
elping our customers achieve their 
fnancial goals  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability INVES
T TO D R
IVE ORGANIC GROWTH 
AND PROFITABILITY 
NInves
ting in our businesses drives proftable 
organ i
c growth and improves both the 
employee and customer experience.  Over the 
past year, we have made several investments in 
technology and talent to support our growth 
plans a n
d maximize productivity, including key 
additi
ons to our sales teams  
EXPAND MARKET SHARE IN KEY GEOGRAPHIES 
Optimizing our branch network in our established 
markets helps support our faster-growing 
Southeast markets,  where we see stronger deposit 
growth trends, higher expected population growth 
and greater market vitality  
MAINTAIN DISCIPLINE THROUGHOUT 
THE COMPANY 
We’ve w
orked hard over the past several years to 
create a framework that will allow Fifth Third to 
perform well through a full business cycle  Our 
focus is on maximizing through-the-cycle returns 
rather than generating lower-quality loan growth. 
Our teams have a strong track record of delivering 
on thi s co
mmitment  Clearly defned strategic 
prior it
ies, proactive balance sheet management and 
ongoing discipline position us well for the future  We 
remain focused on striking the right balance in order 
to maintain expense discipline while continuing to 
invest for long-term outperformance  Sustainable Financial Performance 
($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) 
21  
 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 SCALE: $2,500
$1,472 
$2,105 
$2,118 
$2,419 ET INCOME AVAILABLE TO CASH DIVIDENDS PER 
COMMON SHAREHOLDERS COMMON SHARE 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 
NET INTEREST 
MARGIN (FTE)* EFFICIENCY RATIO* 3.31 SCALE: 4  0% SCALE: 2  0% 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2  88 1  09 
3  03 1  55 
3  22 1  54
1.53 
SCALE: 1  0 SCALE: 100% SCALE: 15  0% 
0  53 
0  60
0  74 
0.94 59  0 9  7 
53  7 13  9 
57  0 14  5 
55.8 13.1 RETURN ON RETURN ON AVERAGE 
AVERAGE ASSETS COMMON EQUITY 
*Non-GAAP measure: see discussion of non-GAAP and Reg. G reconciliation beginning on page 
27 of Fifth Third’s Q4 2019 earnings release. -
-MARKETS SERVED 
As of June 30, 2020, Fifth Third operated 1,122 full service banking centers, and 2,456 
Fifth Third branded ATMs in our regional footprint, including Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, 
Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, West Virginia, Georgia and North Carolina. 
In total, Fifth Third provides customers with access to approximately 53,000 fee free 
ATMs across the United States  Outside of our regional footprint, we have middle market 
and corporate banking ofces and provide indirect auto and mortgage lending across 
the United States  
Fifth Third’s Footprint 
  Regional Footprint
  Key Southeast MSAs of Focus
  FITB Markets with a Top-Three Deposit Share
  Out-of-Footprint Middle Market and Corporate Banking 
(London and Toronto ofces not shown.) 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 22  
 
 
   
 
 
ECONOMIC Responsible Banking 
We are focused on delivering best-in-class fnancial 
products and services, and on providing access to 
those services whenever and wherever consumers 
want them. 
We are responsible for ensuring that our product and service suite is 
accessible to all consumers, in all markets, and that the right types of 
responsive products and services are ofered. 
We strive to act in the best interest of consumers 
by providing reasonably priced products, defning 
clear terms and disclosures, and ofering fair and 
consistent service.  By doing so, we can build lasting 
customer relationships and meet our responsibility 
to help them prosper  
HONEST BUSINESS PRACTICES 
Fair and honest business practices are essential 
to keeping our customers at the center of 
everything we do  We act in our customers’ best interest   Unethical business practices are strictly 
prohibited, and further, are not consistent with our 
Core Values and who we are.  
We are fully committed to maintaining non-abusive 
and anti-predatory lending practices  Credit 
decisions are made without regard to race, ethnicity, 
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital 
status, sexual orientation, gender identifcation or 
assignment, military status, disability, receipt of 
public assistance, familial status or a consumer’s 
exercise of credit protection rights   
Fifth Third’s Community Reinvestment Act  
and Responsible Banking Committee is responsible  
for guiding enterprise-wide CRA and responsible conduct strategies and policies and facilitates high-
level direction to consumer and commercial lines of 
business consistent with such strategies and policies  
The Committee also seeks to promote a corporate 
culture that supports Fifth Third’s commitment to 
the letter and spirit of both the CRA and laws and 
regulations that prohibit behavior and practices 
that could be deemed unethical, discriminatory, or 
predatory in nature , as well as unfair, deceptive, or 
abusive acts or practices (UDAAP)  
The CRA and Responsible Banking Committee 
is led by the consumer and business practices 
senior compliance director and the chief enterprise 
responsibility ofcer of Fifth Third Bank  The 
Committee has delegated responsibility from the 
Board of Directors who oversees the committee 
actions through the Enterprise Risk Management 
Committee  Membership is comprised of leadership 
from the lines of business, Legal, Risk, and Fair 
Lending as well as community development and 
sustainability group representatives  Further, we 
assert that Fair Lending and Responsible Banking 
compliance is the responsibility of all employees in the Company’s Code of Business Conduct & 
Ethics, which all employees are required to sign and 
acknowledge on an annual basis  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 23  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
-
-
-Responsible Products 
All products ofered by Fifth Third are reviewed for 
compliance to align with UDAAP and any applicable 
consumer protection laws  In addition, the Bank 
undergoes a rigorous process with focus groups and, 
when appropriate, engages third party experts to 
ensure that we bring to life our promise to put the customer at the center  
Fifth Third ofers a product called 
Early Access , which is a short term form 
of credit that allows eligible Fifth Third 
personal checking customers to take an 
advance on their next qualifed direct 
deposit.  It is a much more responsible 
and signifcantly less expensive option for 
consumers who often utilize check cashing 
facilities  In 2020, we updated Early 
Access to comply with new regulations 
and improved the fee structure to allow 
customers more fexibility to repay short 
term loans  The Fifth Third Community 
Mortgage is a responsible loan product 
that reduces the amount of upfront costs 
and does not require mortgage insurance  
In 2020, Fifth Third increased our down 
payment assistance program to allow up 
to $7,500 to defray down payment costs. Overdraft solutions  are ofered 
by Fifth Third to help customers avoid 
unnecessary or burdensome fees if their 
account is overdrawn  Overdraft solutions are detailed at 53.com   SALES AND SERVICE 
Our approach to sales and service is to take the 
time to understand what matters for each customer 
and to build a product or service solution that 
helps them meet their goals. This is the essence of 
what keeping the “customer at the center” means  
A consultative approach ensures we are meeting 
customers’ needs as they evolve and change  
Employees in every sales role participate in 
training that focuses on this consultative approach, 
providing guidance on how to have robust customer 
conversations and how to ofer needs-based 
solutions  Once this training is completed, additional 
learning is specialized based on line of business and 
role  Periodic performance reviews and check-ins 
with managers enable constructive feedback and 
professional development  
A consultative approach to 
sales and service ensures we are meeting customers’ needs 
as they evolve and change. 
COMPENSATION 
To support our consultative sales and service 
approach, our compensation system focuses on 
customer experience and revenue metrics  We do 
not impose sales quotas or product-specifc sales 
targets, nor do we require customers to open a 
certain number of accounts.  Approximately 90% 
of a retail employee’s compensation is salary  Of 
the remaining amount, only a small percentage is 
based on sales performance related to customer 
experience and revenue targets  In 2018, we 
eliminated account openings entirely as a factor considered in compensation  Most important, sales 
performance metrics prioritize quality over quantity  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 24  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT 
Feedback, including complaints, from our customers 
and clients is important to us  Feedback is received 
through a wide array of verbal and written intake 
channels, including call center, social media, retail 
banking centers, collections, mortgage origination 
and others  Customer care teams, including the 
Ofce of the President, provide a centralized 
feedback management process across the Company  
They keep our customers at the center by treating 
them with kindness, being consistent and providing 
timely resolution  In addition, Customer care teams 
assist with feedback research, resolution, trend 
identifcation and ongoing process improvement  
FAIR MARKETING 
The mission of our Marketing department is to 
support customer-centric growth by fully activating 
the Bank’s brand  Marketing professionals are 
motivated by doing what’s right for customers 
and keeping them at the center of all decisions  
Marketing works within our One Bank model, 
meaning that team members across the 
organization work together to serve the needs of customers and communities seamlessly and 
holistically.  One Bank works because it builds 
trust, creates value and deepens relationships  
This approach also is employed as we consider 
sponsorships and advertising  Our One Bank m
odel 
works because it builds trust, 
creates value and deepens relationships. 
COMPLIANCE 
The Compli
ance department plays a key role in 
responsible products, sales and marketing at 
Fifth Third  Compliance ofcers are involved 
in the development of products, the approval 
of marketing materials and campaigns, and 
oversight of marketing processes and procedures. 
Compliance ofcers ensure that information within 
advertising is prominent, easy to understand, 
placed where the customer would expect to fnd it, 
and true  
Marketing brings the Fifth Third brand to life by following 
these tenets: 
We want to serve customers 
better and we treat every touch 
as an opportunity to make an 
impact. We leverage our experience and 
expertise to help create success 
for our customers by putting 
them at the center  We truly care about customers, 
their motivators and their goals  
By understanding our customers, 
we’re able to best assist with 
what they need to get them where they want to go. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 25  
 EMPOWERING CUSTOMERS 
Innovative fnancial products and solutions, and inclusive access to them, 
empower people to meet their goals  Our research has shown that customers 
want and need help saving for life’s big moments, including a home purchase, 
higher education and retirement, as well as for smaller goals like a special trip, 
purchase or event  
Digital Banking 
Digital banking is a necessity today  Our 
internet banking tool is designed to put 
consumers in control of their fnances, from 
monitoring accounts to managing money  
Many of Fifth Third’s products and services 
are available online, with customers able 
to gain access to checking and savings 
accounts, bill pay service and security 
alerts  The Fifth Third mobile banking app 
enables management of accounts, check 
deposits and additional services, all with 
the convenience of a mobile phone  
In the fourth quarter of 2019, 70% of 
deposits, withdrawals, internal transfers 
and payment transactions were completed 
through one of our digital channels. 
Fifth Third’s mobile app 
ranked for satisfaction 
by a leading frm. Dobot 
Dobot , Powered by Fifth Third, is one 
innovative way we help our customers save 
for their goals, big and small  The savings 
application launched early in 2019 and 
empowered individuals to save millions of 
dollars  The app is free and allows people 
to defne their savings goals and upload a 
photo   They then specify how much they 
want to save and a deadline  Every week, 
Dobot automatically transfers small 
amounts of money from a linked checking 
account to a Dobot savings account.  
The app includes a “Scheduled Savings” 
function, allowing people to control how 
much and how often they want to save  
Fifth Third recently added a “Save 
Together” feature to help people save for 
a group goal  The new feature allows a 
person to set a goal with friends or family —
like an extended family vacation   
As of year -end 2019, Dobot had a 4.8 
rating in the app store. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 26  
 
 
 
 -
—Fifth Third Momentum 
Student debt is an ongoing problem for 
many people  The Fifth Third Momentum™  
app, launched in 2017, enables customers 
to round up their debit card purchases 
to help pay down their student loans   
Since inception, Momentum has helped 
customers pay down millions in debt.  
Each dollar paid down is another dollar that 
people can use to pursue their dreams  
Zelle 
Fifth Third was among the frst banks to be 
part of the Zelle  person to-person payment 
network, a fas t
, safe and easy way to send 
money online to virtually anyone with a U S  
bank account with no added fees  
Through December 2019, Fifth Third 
customers sent and received over 11 
million transactions for a total amount of 
over $2 billion. 
Fif th Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 27COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 
$35.5 billion achieved 
Fifth Third has delivered on our fve-year, $32 billion Community Commitment. 
As of June 30, 2020, we had surpassed our $32 billion goal by delivering $35 5 billion under the Commitment   
We also achieved 100% of the sub-goals for mortgage, small business, community development lending and 
investments, and philanthropy  
$13.8B 
MORTGAGE LENDING $11.1B 
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING 
 $10.3B 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LENDING $99.1M 
PHILANTHROPIC DONATIONS 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 28 GOVERNANCE  Corporate Governance 
Business Ethics 
Public Policy and Government Relations Enterprise Risk Management 
Consumer Privacy and Information Security 
Third -Party Management 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 29  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance 
Our most valuable asset at Fifth Third Bancorp 
is our reputation for integrity. We are judged by 
our conduct, and we must act in a manner that 
merits public trust and confdence. 
We believe that a strong corporate governance program is the 
foundation for a sustainable and well-governed company.  Accordingly, 
we continuously evaluate our structures, processes and controls to 
ensure they support and promote accountability, transparency and 
ethical behavior  
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Our Board of Directors provides oversight of, and 
guidance to, our executive management team in 
the development and implementation of corporate 
strategy, risk management, corporate culture and 
other important aspects of our business, including 
ESG.  In order to provide such oversight and guidance, 
we believe it is important that the Board include a 
substantial majority of independent directors, strong 
independent committee chairs and a diverse range 
of backgrounds and experiences calibrated to the evolving needs of our business and stakeholders  
Apart from our CEO and one director who 
previously served as the CEO of a recently acquired 
entity, all of our directors are independent, under 
the standards established by Nasdaq and our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines  We have a lead 
independent director who is appointed annually 
by the independent directors and facilitates 
independent Board oversight of management  At our 2020 annual meeting, our shareholders elected 
14 directors, including three women directors, two 
Black directors and one Latino director  Since that time, two additional directors have been 
appointed and one director has left the Board due 
to scheduling conficts  Following these changes, 
our Board now includes 15 directors, including 
fve women directors, two Black directors and one 
Latino director.  Our lead independent director and 
Audit Committee chair are both women and our 
Technology Committee chair is Latino  
Directors’ Gender 
33% 
Female: 
Male: Directors’ Ethnicity 
20 % 
Diverse: 
Other: 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 30 Our 2020 Proxy Statement includes information 
about the Board, its committees and their 
respective responsibilities  . It also inclu des a Board 
Skills and Attributes Matrix that sets forth, on a 
director- b
y-director basis, the diverse skills and 
attributes that each contributes to the Board’s 
oversight of the Company  . 
Though evaluations occur continuously, our 
director s u
ndergo a thorough annual evaluation 
process to help ensure that Board and committee 
oversight remain strong and that the mix of skills 
and backgrounds on the Board remains appropriate  . 
The evaluation process includes one-on-one 
discussi o
ns between the lead independent director 
and each other director; full Board and committee 
evaluations; and follow-up action items  . These frank 
e
valuations are an important part of sustainable 
governan ce
, as they allow issues to be uncovered 
and addressed  . The Nominating and Corporate Governance (NCG)  
Committee, which oversees these Board 
evaluations, also is responsible for identifying 
and assessing potential director candidates  using 
established criteria and corporate governance 
guidelines  . Each direct or must possess the highest 
personal and professional ethics and integrity, and 
should be d e
voted to representing the interests of 
Fifth Third and our stakeholders  . Directors m ust 
be willing to devote sufficient time to their duties 
and responsibilities  . It is importa nt that our Board 
represents diverse experiences in background, 
business ,
 government, education, technology and 
in various areas relevant to our businesses  . The 
NCG Commit
tee carefully considers these and 
other factors—including judgment, diversity, and 
skills—in determining a mix that best serves the 
needs of the Board and Fifth Third. Proactive 
consideration of diverse candidates is an important 
part of the NCG Committee recruitment process 
and is mandated under our corporate governance 
guidelines and NCG Committee charter  .
Board Performance Evaluation Process
Written evaluation 
questionnaires 
complete
d by directors 
for the Board and for 
each committee on 
which they serve  .Anonymized results  
reviewed by NCG Committee,  
provided to the committee 
chairs for committee-level 
and Board discussion  .Office of the 
Corporate Secretary 
and management 
implement action 
items as identified by 
committee chairs  .
1
23
45
6
Individual interviews 
conducted by lead 
independent director 
with each independent 
director  .Committee chairs 
prioritize and 
communicate action 
items to management 
based on their evaluation 
result discussions  .Following year’s 
evaluation forms 
will solicit feedback 
on action item 
implementation  .
Fifth T hird 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 31ESG OVERSIGHT
Our corporate governance guidelines and committee charters establish 
a framework for the governance of the Board and oversight of the 
Company. Among their responsibilities, the committees oversee a range 
of matters pertaining to certain ESG topics. For example:
Nominating 
and Corporate 
Governance 
CommitteeRisk and 
Compliance 
CommitteeHuman 
Capital and Compensation CommitteeTechnology 
CommitteeAudit 
Committee
Responsible 
for overseeing 
the Company’s 
ESG program, 
including practices 
and reporting 
with respect to 
environmental 
topics, such as 
climate change, 
our diversity and 
inclusion programs, 
and other 
corporate social 
responsibilities that 
are of significance 
to our business 
and stakeholders . 
The NCG 
Committee also 
assists the Board 
in establishing 
and maintaining 
effective corporate 
governance 
policies and 
practices .Responsible for 
overseeing risk 
management 
practices, 
including ESG 
topics, such 
as information 
security and data 
privacy .Responsible 
for overseeing 
strategies and 
policies regarding 
compensation, 
talent 
management, 
and succession 
planning and 
other employment 
practices .Responsible 
for overseeing 
our technology, 
information 
security and 
data privacy 
strategies, which 
are critical to the 
interests of all our 
stakeholders .Responsible for 
overseeing  
the integrity of our 
financial reporting 
and governance 
programs .
Fif th Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 32The ESG Committee monitors emerging risks and trends 
through stakeholder engagement, shareholder resolutions and recommendations from independent organizations such as SASB, TCFD, GRI and the United Nations.
An ESG Steering Group was established in early 
2020, comprised of leaders across the Company, to 
enhance ESG practices and disclosures . The group 
helped to formalize many ongoing initiatives, goals 
and progress updates under the ESG framework and 
to set goals for future actions and disclosures .   
Later, the ESG Steering Group evolved into the 
Environmental, Social and Governance Committee 
with a charter to provide oversight and review 
of policies, programs, practices, strategies and 
approach to ESG topics that reflect Fifth Third’s 
Core Values. 
The ESG Committee monitors emerging risks 
and trends through stakeholder engagement, 
shareholder resolutions and recommendations from 
independent organizations such as SASB, TCFD, 
GRI and the United Nations . Further, the committee 
monitors ESG performance with key data providers, 
and has oversight of climate risk, sustainable finance and operational eco-efficiency topics .  
The committee is chaired by the director of 
investor relations and includes representatives 
from: legal, the community development and 
sustainability group, ethics, human capital, corporate 
communications, risk, finance, inclusion and diversity office, lines of business and compliance . The ESG 
Committee makes regular reports to the NCG Committee, which reports to the Board of Directors . 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Fifth Third endeavors to attract and retain the best 
talent and to motivate them to fulfill our Vision . 
We accomplish this by establishing compensation 
programs that reward our people for delivering the right products to the right customers, in ways that 
consider our shareholders’ long-term interests and 
align with Fifth Third’s values, while also staying 
within our risk tolerance . MANAGEMENT 
Our management structure is intended to facilitate 
leadership that is effective and consistent with our 
corporate standards, and that promotes a strong corporate culture . We manage our organization on 
a line-of-business basis, while also maintaining 
strong corporate functions and appropriate 
governance. Our Company’s most senior 
management body is Enterprise, which is responsible 
for developing and implementing corporate strategy 
and managing executive-level operations . 
Fifth Third Bank’s Compensation 
Philosophy
Guiding Principles:
• Develop and apply compensation programs for 
our employees, fairly and equitably .
• Provide competitive compensation opportunities to attract and retain talent that will drive our business strategy .
• Effectively manage risk within incentive programs designed to pay for performance .
• Align compensation with long-term shareholder value creation .
• Provide strong oversight of executive pay .
• Conduct recurring processes that balance risk with strategic and fiscal soundness .
• Consider applicable regulatory expectations and corporate values and behavioral expectations when making compensation awards .
Fif th Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 33GOVERNANCEBusiness Ethics
Doing the right thing is central to our ability to 
achieve our Vision to be the One Bank people most value and trust.  
Our Vision is a commitment that inspires our employees to create 
a great customer experience, an engaging workplace and vibrant 
communities.  It forms the bedrock of Fifth Third’s reputation as a 
respected corporate citizen  . And it is a c ommitment that begins with 
each Fifth Third employee  .
EMPLOYEE CODE OF CONDUCT 
Our Code of 
Business Conduct & 
Ethics is anchored 
in our Fifth Third 
Compass, including 
our Core Values: 
Work as One Bank, 
Take Accountability, 
Be Respectful 
and Inclusive, and 
Act with Integrity. 
It outlines our 
responsibility to 
serve with honesty 
and integrity, and in compliance with both the letter 
and the spirit of the law  .
The Code of Business Conduct & Ethics is an 
important document that serves as a guide to help employees understand how to apply our Core 
Values to the decisions required of them  . Every 
employee is required to review it, comply with 
it and refer to it regularly—and to sign an annual 
acknowledgement . In 2019, 99% of employees made 
this acknowledgment . In addition, all employees 
complete ethics training on an annual basis . In 2019, 
99% of employees completed all required ethics 
training modules .  
The Code is the foundation of our ethics program 
at Fifth Third . This foundation helped Fifth Third 
to be recognized as one of the 2019 World’s Most 
Ethical Companies . This honor came from the 
highly respected Ethisphere Institute, a global 
leader in defining and advancing the standards 
of ethical business practices . It puts us in elite company, as only 128 organizations from around the 
globe —including only five banks—made the grade . 
Ethisphere scores companies in five categories: 
ethics and compliance, culture of ethics, corporate citizenship and responsibility, governance and 
leadership and reputation .
F ifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 34ANTI-COMPETITIVE ACTIVITIES
T
he Code of Business Conduct & Ethics outlines 
Fifth Third’s position on anti-competitive activities  . 
Anti-tr
ust laws, also referred to as “competition 
laws,” are rules developed by the U  .S . governm ent 
to protect consumers from predatory business 
practices  . Their goa l is to ensure that fair 
competition exists in the marketplace  . 
We ensure t
hat business activities that involve any 
of our competitors are conducted with great care to 
ensure compliance with all laws and regulations  .   
Prohibited
 activities include:
• Any agreements between competitors relating to prices, allocations of territories or customers or limitations of products.  
•
 Use of competitors’ confidential or proprietary information.
•
 Engaging in any other anti-competitive behavior , 
including, but not limited to: disparaging or making false statements in relation to competitors, misappropriating competitors’ trade secrets, or encouraging competitors’ customers to break contracts
 .  
We are resp
onsible for adherence to the anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption regulations of the countries in 
which we operate  . This incl udes the Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act, Canada’s Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, and the U
 .K . Bribery A ct, as 
well as other applicable laws and regulations  . The 
regu
lations prohibit bribery of a foreign or domestic 
government official for the purpose of influencing 
that official  . These reg ulations apply to conduct both 
inside and outside of U  .S . territor y . These reg ulations 
also apply to third parties conducting business for 
Fifth Third such as suppliers and consultants  .
ETHICS HOTLINE
Every Fifth Third employee has a responsibility 
not only to adhere to the Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, but also to raise issues if and 
when they become aware of misconduct or other 
violations of our Code. Employees are encouraged 
to raise questions and concerns directly with their 
manager or someone in their division’s reporting 
line with whom they feel comfortable talking  . Ethics Office Foundational Program 
Elements
Annual Code 
AcknowledgementAnnua l C
onflicts of 
Interest Disclosure 
Questionnaire
Conflicts  
CouncilAnonym o
us, 
Confide n
tial  
Ethics Line
Education & 
AwarenessSenior Management 
& Board Reporting 
and Escalation
Our Code of Business Conduct 
& Ethics is the foundation of 
our Ethic
s program at Fifth 
Third. This foundation helped 
Fifth Third to be recognized as 
one of the 2019 World’s Most 
Ethical Companies. Only five 
banks from around the globe 
earned this distinction.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 35In addition, employees have access to their Human 
Resources business partner, the Employee Relations 
Resource Group, Business Security Operations 
Center, or the Ethics Office, including the 24-hour 
Ethics Line  . Rep orts can be made to the Ethics 
Line at any time and employees can choose to 
remain anonymous  . All r eports are investigated 
and taken seriously, and we protect confidentiality 
to the fullest extent possible  . If th e investigation 
determines an employee violation has occurred, 
pro
mpt corrective action is taken, up to and 
including termination  . Reg ular reporting of Ethics 
Line calls is provided to senior management as well 
as the Audit Committee of the Board  . 
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS
Fif
th Third’s Non-Retaliation Policy for employees 
who report potential violations strictly prohibits 
intimidation of or retaliation against individuals who 
make good-faith reports of known or suspected 
violations of the Code of Business Conduct &  
Ethics, any Fifth Third policy or procedure, or  
any law or regulation  .
At Fifth Third, discrimination, 
harassment or intimidation is not t
olerated for any reason.DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT
Discrimination, harassment or intimidation 
are not tolerated for any reason. This includes 
discrimination on the basis of an individual’s race, 
color, national origin or ancestry, citizenship status, 
creed, religion, religious affiliation, age, gender, 
gender identity, sexual orientation, transgender 
status, marital status, civil partnership, pregnancy, 
parental status or caregiving responsibilities, 
genetic information, physical or intellectual disability 
or protected condition, military or veteran status, 
an individual having been a victim of domestic 
violence, sexual assault or abuse, or any other status 
protected under applicable laws  . Fif th Third does 
not require employees to sign mandatory arbitration 
agr
eements as a condition of employment or 
continued employment  .*
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Str
iving to be the One Bank that people most 
value and trust requires operating at the highest 
ethical standards and upholding the dignity of 
the individual through every interaction with 
all we serve, including customers, employees, 
communities and shareholders.  We support 
fundamental principles of human rights across all 
our business activities  . Fif th Third’s respect for the 
protection and preservation of human rights is guided by th
e principles set forth in the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights  . Our f ull human 
rights statement can be found on ir.53.com/esg/  . GOVERNANCE
*Fifth Third Securities representatives licensed through the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority have registered representative agreements that require arbitration of claims.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 36GOVERNANCEPublic Policy and 
Government Relations 
Fifth Third is subject to government regulation 
and risks generated by new, complex and 
evolving legislative and regulatory requirements 
that impact nearly every aspect of our operations.
As a result, customers, employees and shareholders have a measurable 
stake in the outcome of certain public policy discussions  . To m itigate 
this risk and work toward favorable outcomes, we participate in the 
public policy process  . O ur government affairs program is designed 
to give us a coordinated voice in public policy through a partnership 
between the Government Affairs team and Company leaders.
Fifth Third’s advocacy efforts are executed at 
the local, state, and federal level by registered 
lobbyists.  Disclosure of federal lobbying activity 
occurs via the U  .S . Co ngress, and disclosure of non-
federal lobbying activity is provided to appropriate 
local and state agencies as required by law  . 
Fi
fth Third’s Political Action Committee supports 
candidates at the federal, state and local level. 
Funds in the PAC consist of voluntary personal 
contributions from eligible officers of the Company 
and its subsidiaries  . No C ompany funds are 
contributed to the PAC  . Di sclosure of PAC activity 
can be viewed at fec.gov  . Disclosure of PAC 
activity at the local and state levels is provided 
to state election authorities in compliance with 
applicable law  . To mitigate legislative and 
regulatory risk and work toward favorable outcomes, we participate in the public policy process through our government affairs program.
Fifth Third’s political contributions are governed 
by the Government Affairs Policy  . Th e Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board 
reviews political contributions semi-annually and 
approves the policy annually  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 37GOVERNANCEEnterprise Risk 
Management
Fifth Third Bank has been in business since 1858 
and has been successful over this span of years by effectively balancing risk and return.
We take risks every day delivering products and services to customers 
and executing our business processes and activities  . Ther efore, we are 
responsible for managing these risks effectively to deliver through-
the-cycle value and performance for our shareholders, customers, 
employees, and communities  .
ALIGNMENT WITH OUR CORE VALUES  
AND CULTURE
Our Core Values and culture provide a foundation 
for supporting sound risk management practices by 
setting expectations for appropriate conduct and 
accountability across the organization  .
Our approach to sound risk management is grounded 
on each employee living our Core Values and acting 
in an ethical and responsible manner as we serve the 
financial needs of our customers and communities  . 
Our culture is embodied in the Fifth Third Compass,  
which informs our actions and decisions, from how  we navigate our daily work and recognize each other’s efforts, to the way we behave with 
customers and each other. The Compass also 
guides our strategic direction and actions as we 
keep the customer at the center and work toward 
achieving our Vision to be the One Bank people 
most value and trust  .
By focusing on the future and uniting us as one team, 
the Fifth Third Compass represents who we are, what 
we believe and how we define success—all of which 
are key drivers of our risk management strategy  .
“Our success is dependent on effective risk management 
to enable client solutions, optimize the use of capital, 
ensure regulatory compliance and drive consistent 
performance through the cycle .”
-JAMIE LEONARD, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF RISK OFFICER
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 38Fifth Third’s Risk Management Framework outlines 
our approach to managing risk in support of 
our Vision  . Key eleme nts of the Framework are 
described in detail below  . 
RISK APPETITE
Fifth Th i
rd’s Risk Appetite is established in 
alignment with our strategic, financial and 
capital plans. The Risk Appetite is defined using 
quantitative metrics and qualitative measures to 
ensure prudent risk taking and balanced decision 
making  . Our goal is t o ensure that aggregate risks 
do not exceed the Fifth Third’s risk appetite, and 
that ris k
s taken are supportive of our portfolio 
diversification and profitability objectives  . The 
Board a
nd executive management define the risk 
appetit e
, which is considered in the development 
of business strategies and forms the basis for 
enterprise risk management  . RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Strategic  
PlanningRisk 
Appetite
Capital 
Planning
The core principles that define our risk appetite and ensure we are operating in a 
safe and sound manner are:  
• We act with integrity in all activities.  
• We understand the risks we take , and ensure that 
they are in alignment with our business strategies and our risk appetite
 . 
• We avoid risks that cannot be understood, 
managed or monitored.
• We provide transparency of risk to our management and Board  by escalating risks and 
issues as necessary
 . 
• We ensure Fifth Third’s products and services are aligned to our core customer base and are designed, delivered and maintained to provide value  
and benefit to our customers and to Fifth Third
 .
• We do not offer products or services that are not appropriate or suitable for our customers.•
 We are focused on providing operational excellence  by providing reliable, accurate, and 
efficient services to meet our customers’ needs
 .
• We maintain a strong financial position to  ensure that we meet our strategic objectives through all economic cycles  and are able to 
access th
e capital markets at all times, even under 
stressed conditions  . 
• We protect the Bank’s reputation by thoroughly understanding the consequences of business strategies, products and processes.
•
 We conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations and in 
alignment with internal policies and procedures
 . 
Fift h Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 39Risk Management 
Process
Our Risk Management Process ensures a consistent 
and comprehensive approach in how we identify, 
measure and assess, manage, monitor, and report 
risks  . We also have established processes and 
programs to m
anage and report concentration 
risks; to ens u
re robust talent, compensation, and 
performance management; and to aggregate risks 
across the enterprise.
Fifth Third’s Eight Risk Types:
• Credit Risk
• Liquidity Risk
• Interest Rate Risk
• Price Risk
• Operational Risk• Reputational Risk
• Strategic Risk
• Legal and 
Regulatory Compliance Risk
FIFTH THIRD’S RISK FRAMEWORK
Identify
Risk
Assess
Risk
Manage
RiskMonitor
RiskReport
Risk8
Risk
TypesTHREE LINES O
F DEFENSE
Accountability for managing risk is driven through 
a Three Lines of Defense structure:
1
FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE
The first line of defense is comprised of front line 
units that create risk or are accountable for risk. 
These groups are the Bank’s primary risk-takers and 
are responsible for implementing effective internal 
controls and maintaining processes for identifying, 
assessing, controlling, and mitigating the risks 
associated with their activities, consistent with 
established risk appetite and limits . The first line of 
defense also includes business units that provide 
information technology, operations, servicing, 
processing, or other support .
2
SECOND LINE OF DEFENSE
The second line of defense, or independent 
risk management, includes risk management, 
compliance and credit review.  The second line is 
responsible for developing frameworks and policies 
to govern risk-taking activities, overseeing risk-taking of the organization, advising on controlling 
that risk, and providing input on key risk decisions
 . 
Risk management complements the first line’s 
manag e
ment of risk-taking activities through its 
monitoring and reporting responsibilities, including 
adherence to the risk appetite  . Additionall y, 
risk management is responsible for identifying, measu r 
ing, monitoring, and controlling aggregate 
and emerging risks enterprise-wide  .
3
THIRD LINE OF DEFENSE
Th
e third line of defense is internal audit, which 
provid e
s oversight of the first and second lines 
of defense, and independent assurance to the 
Board  on the effectiveness of governance, risk 
management, and internal controls  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 40RISK GOVERNANCE
Fifth Third’s risk governance structure ensures 
proper oversight of risk across the organization.  
It provides a path for escalation of risks and issues 
to management and Board-level committees 
to drive effective risk decisioning. The Board 
is responsible for actively overseeing risk-taking 
activities and holding management accountable 
for adhering to the risk governance framework  . The 
Board delegates certain responsibilities to Board 
Committees, including the Risk and Compliance 
Committee (RCC) and the Audit Committee  .
The RCC is the principal committee that oversees 
risk and assists the Board in its oversight of the 
Risk Management Framework and approves the 
framework and primary risk management policies  . 
The Board Audit Committee is the primary 
committee that has responsibility, fiduciary duty 
and authority to oversee the management, financial 
statements and audit functions  . The Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
(ERMC) is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, 
comprising of senior management and reports 
to the RCC  . The co mmittee is responsible for 
reviewing and approving frameworks and policies 
to ensure effective risk management, overseeing the management of all risk types to ensure that 
risks remain within Fifth Third’s risk appetite and 
fostering a risk culture that supports our risk 
management objectives  . 
The ERMC oversees key management committees 
responsible for specific risk types and key risk-related policies and processes, in order to support 
an aggregate view of risk and provide executive-
level risk management oversight of all risk types  . 
FIF
TH THIRD’S RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Board Risk and  
Compliance Committee
Enterprise Risk  
Management Committee
Asset/Liability  
CommitteeCapital  
CommitteeManagement 
Compliance  
CommitteeOperational  
Risk 
CommitteeCorporate 
Responsibility 
& Reputation 
CommitteeCredit Loss 
Reserve 
CommitteeCorporate  
Credit 
Committee
Fifth Third’s risk governance structure ensures proper oversight 
of risk across the organization. It provides a path for escalation of risks and issues to management and Board-level committees to drive effective risk decisioning.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 41GOVERNANCEConsumer Privacy and 
Information Security
We keep the customer at the center because 
without our customers, we would not exist.
Keeping the customer at the center of everything we do and delivering 
a world-class customer experience every time is a top priority and 
way of life at Fifth Third. When it comes to security and privacy, our 
customers expect us to protect their financial and information assets and 
need to know they can trust us to do just that .
As the cyber threat landscape continues to change, 
we make every effort to stay ahead of the threats 
and put in place processes, procedures, tools and 
technologies to mitigate the risks associated with 
these threats.
Our Information Security team’s mission is to 
relentlessly execute to protect, enable and innovate 
across our enterprise, to enhance our brand and 
to raise the level of trust and confidence of our 
customers and partners  . We s trive to understand 
cyber threat adversaries and the risks they pose  . 
Our adversaries are nimble and dynamic  . To p rotect 
against them, our defenses must be the same  .
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTS
In late 2018, we opened a state-of-the-art Cyber 
Fusion Center designed to enhance collaboration 
and innovation among security, risk and fraud 
professionals across the Bank.  This new center 
enables the teams to more closely collaborate 
and share intelligence information about potential attacks so we can more effectively protect our customers and the Bank  . Th e center helps foster 
relationships between all of the parties involved 
in cyber-related incidents and helps us to address 
issues before they become problems  .
As digital transformation swept the industry, the 
team created rigor and structure to ensure dynamic 
protection and built-in security as solutions moved 
to the cloud  . Th e foundational work resulted in 
defined, locked down, monitored and automatically 
corrected cloud protection  . Constantly exploring 
new, secure technologies and applications is key 
to staying ahead of the risks.
In addition to technology, we introduced new 
detection and response processes designed to 
create dynamic defensive postures  . Th e goal 
is to make Fifth Third not just a hard target for 
attackers, but also a moving target  . By i ntegrating 
threat intelligence, advanced security analysis trade craft and dynamic detection capability, we 
can rapidly change our defensive posture to stay 
ahead of attackers  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 42PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY
Over the last several years, a strong foundation of 
governance, policies and procedures was laid based 
on a tight alignment with regulatory requirements 
and standard frameworks such as NIST and COBIT  .  
The year 2019 marked a transformative year for the 
Information Security organization  .  Our goals were to 
create a more agile, dynamic organization and set 
of defensive capabilities while also embracing new 
technology, like cloud infrastructure, in order to 
build a secure future foundation. We also continued 
to enhance the Bank’s resiliency through our Business 
Continuity Management program  .  Today, the 
Information Security team is more alert to cyber risk, 
more deliberate in building dynamic defenses and 
more collaborative in exploring effective solutions  .
Fifth Third also is committed to protecting our 
customers through our privacy policies. These 
policies describe the information we collect, the 
information customers provide when using our 
products and services and information about when 
customers can choose to limit data sharing based 
on state, federal, and international regulations.  We 
have implemented measures designed to secure 
customer information from loss or unauthorized 
access, use, alteration, or disclosure  .  Information 
is stored on secured servers behind firewalls, and 
all data transported on our website and mobile 
applications is encrypted  .  To further help protect 
information, the Bank requires employees to review 
and know information security and privacy policies  .
Because the ever-changing cyber landscape has 
resulted in more privacy and security regulatory 
oversight, internal and external assessments 
are conducted regularly to ensure our defenses 
are solid, that we are meeting or exceeding all 
regulatory requirements and that we are continually 
maturing the Information Security program  .
THE VALUE OF STRONG LEADERSHIP AND 
GOVERNANCE
Information security and privacy teams regularly 
report to executive leadership and the Board to 
ensure everyone is on the same page with respect 
to priorities and focus  .
• The chief information security officer and 
Privacy Office report regularly to the Board or Board committees to keep them abreast of all 
efforts to prevent, detect and respond to risks  .  
• The Technology Committee , a sub-committee 
of the Board, was established in 2020 and is 
comprised of Board members with extensive 
technology backgrounds  . I ts primary purpose 
is to assist the Board in its oversight of 
technology and innovation strategies, plans 
and operations, information, cybersecurity and 
data privacy risk management and third party 
technology risk management  . 
TRAINING AND TESTING KEEP THE FOCUS ON 
SECURITY AND PRIVACY
Our employees and contractors are included 
in our first line of defense. Keeping them 
informed and educated helps them to make the 
right decisions when it comes to protecting the 
information they work with every day  .  To do this, we 
have a mature security awareness and education 
program  . T he program includes annual training 
for all users, targeted security awareness training for high-risk audiences, weekly security awareness 
communications, quarterly lunch and learns, and a 
variety of activities, including a conference, during 
National Cyber Security Awareness Month in October  . 
In addition to security awareness training, our 
Learning and Development team provides a variety 
of compliance courses  .  Some are required learning 
for all employees and contractors; others are 
designed for specific audiences  .  
To test our education efforts and provide program 
direction, the Bank conducts regular simulated 
phishing exercises and desk checks to ensure 
employees and contractors are following policies 
and standards  . 
The Information Security team has established 
and maintains a qualified and representative 
workforce, ensuring that the right people with the 
right skills are in place to achieve our business 
goals. To that end, the organization invests heavily 
in ongoing training and certifications for its team 
members  . T his includes technical bootcamps, 
as well as online and in classroom training and 
conferences  .  The inventory of training is extensive, 
aligns with certification opportunities and is 
provided via various mediums  .  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 43GOVERNANCE
Third-Party Management
Fifth Third has a robust third-party 
management program for the acquisition of goods and services.
Our goal is to meet the strategic objectives of the Bank and maintain our 
commitment to providing equal opportunities to all capable suppliers . 
To achieve this goal, we seek strategic partnerships with highly qualified 
sources who provide solutions that improve our processes, increase the 
quality of our products and services and drive efficiency  .
We execute The Bank focuses on fostering a strong risk and 
our third-party compliance culture, meaning all employees are 
selection process responsible and accountable for managing risks 
in accordance associated with third-party relationships.   
with the highest The methodology and process for third-party risk 
standards of  management is as follows:  
integrity, fairness, •Governance of our third-party activities begins
and objectivity.  with the Third Party Management Council, which
Our Supplier assesses the portfolio of third-party service
Diversity team  providers as well as the management of risks,
reviews every issues and performance of the third-party
sourcing population and oversees adherence to the Third
opportunity to Party Risk Management Policy and Program  . 
ensure diverse 
•The Third Party Management Council reports providers are included in the portfolio of potential 
to the Operational Risk Committee, which suppliers  . Thorough assessment and due diligence 
in turn is accountable to the Enterprise Risk is performed on all third-parties prior to onboarding, 
Management Committee and the Risk and with focused attention on protection and security of 
Compliance Committee  . Bank and customer data  .  Fifth Third Bancorp
Supplier 
Code of Conduct
Issued October 2020
SUPPLIER RISK MANAGEMENT
Initiation  
& SelectionOngoing 
MonitoringDue 
Diligence 
ReviewContract Onboard Terminate
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 44Fifth Third 2019 ESG Repor t: The Value of Sustainability 45
SOCIALCOVID-19 Pandemic Response 
Inclusion and Diversity
Employees
Communities
Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 45COVID-19  
PANDEMIC RESPONSE
During the pandemic of 2020, Fifth Third Chairman, President & CEO Greg D . Carmichael 
often said that the times were unprecedented, but so was Fifth Third’s commitment —to 
individuals and businesses, employees and the community .
“Getting businesses a line 
of credit that saves jobs 
doesn’t just make people 
happy. It keeps the 
community strong. ”
-MADISON G  ., FIFTH T HIRD PERSONAL BANKER 
IN INDIANAPOLIS“When you see someone 
who’s hard-working hit a 
rough patch, there’s nothing 
better than being able to 
help keep them going. ”
-BRAD J  ., FIFTH THIRD BANKING CENTER 
MANAGER IN GRANDVILLE
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 46CUSTOMERS
Fifth Third took quick and decisive steps to protect 
our customers’ physical and financial health  . The 
Bank kept over 99% of its banking centers open 
and 53,000 fee-free ATMs available to serve 
customers during the height of the pandemic. 
Following the federal government’s coronavirus 
response team guidelines, we installed protective 
shields between customers and employees at our 
Bank Mart locations and implemented procedures 
to see customers inside our banking centers via 
appointment or our drive-through windows  . When 
phased re-openings began, we followed Centers for 
Disease Control guidance to open safely  .   
During the first two quarters of 2020, our bankers 
interacted with over two million customers 
and executed over 156,000 customer hardship 
requests , representing $2  .6 billion in b alances and 
an additional $6  .9 billion in o ur mortgage servicing 
portfolio  . A new partn ership with Steady and its 
innovative application also helped our customers 
find work and maximize their earnings opportunities  . 
In addition, our Job Seeker’s Toolkit, provided by 
NextJob, and Operation HOPE’s financial coaching 
services, have been made available to the public 
through January 2021  . 
Bankers and relationship managers worked 
nonstop to help their business clients  . Over 
36,000 applications were processed to the 
U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck 
Protection Program, representing $5.4 billion and 
supporting 552,000 jobs.  More than 80% of the 
loans approved were for less than $150,000 and 
95% of loans were to businesses with fewer than  
50 employees  . 
We also prepared to guide clients seeking help 
through the Federal Reserve’s Main Street Lending 
Program, which was created to support small 
and medium-sized businesses that were in sound 
financial condition before the pandemic  . Further , 
we offered our customers payment deferrals, fee 
waivers and disaster assistance  .  Paycheck Protection Program  
By the Numbers
+36,000
LOANS PROVIDED
$5.4 B
TOTAL LOAN AMOUNT
552,000
JOBS SUPPORTED
EMPLOYEES
To protect our employees, we established social 
distancing across our facilities. Approximately 
95% of our employees in non-customer service 
roles were working remotely during the pandemic. 
To protect our customer service employees and 
those they served, we instituted enhanced cleaning 
procedures at our banking centers and offices  . We 
quickly learned how to social distance our operations 
employees for whom in-office work was essential  . 
We also continued to employ 20,000 people across 
our footprint and hired 1,000 more people in retail 
banking, mortgage support and operations to help 
meet increased demand for our services  . 
In line with our Core Values, we made a special 
payment of up to $1,000 to all employees who provided frontline, essential banking services during 
the pandemic  . From a bene fits perspective, we 
ensured that all employees enrolled in Fifth Third’s 
medical coverage had access to free COVID-19 
testing and accommodated requests for time off 
or flexible work schedules due to childcare or any 
other need  . We also rel oaded sick day balances for 
employees, announced plans to reimburse them 
at the end of 2020 for unused purchased vacation 
days and awarded five special vacation days for 
eligible employees for 2021  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 47COMMUNITIES
Community support  was a vital part of our 
COVID-19 response  . We made an $8.75 million 
commitment to help address the COVID-19 
pandemic through relief, recovery and resiliency 
grants funded by the Fifth Third Foundation and 
the Fifth Third Chicagoland Foundation. COVID-19 
relief funds were supported with a commitment 
of $3  .25 million while $5  .5 million in g rants from 
the Strengthening Our Communities Fund were 
designed for support of small businesses and to 
long-term economic sustainability efforts  .  
Grants included $1 million to the Local Initiatives 
Support Corporation for small business assistance 
within Fifth Third’s Consumer Bank footprint as 
well as $1 million to the city of Chicago’s Small 
Business Resiliency Loan Fund  . Other gra nts 
included $100,000 for a collaboration between 
the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, Bankable 
and Fifth Third to deliver financial resources to 
small business owners in the region  . In Charlo tte, a 
$25,000 grant enabled Crisis Assistance Ministry 
to help families remain stably housed  . In Cincin nati, 
a $25,000 grant to Talbert House provided much 
needed personal protective equipment and cleaning 
supplies for its integrated care clinics, which 
combine behavioral health and primary care at a 
single location  .
“We were intensely focused on helping our 
communities during the pandemic,” said Byna 
Elliott, senior vice president and chief enterprise 
responsibility officer at Fifth Third Bank  . “And it 
wasn’t just about providing much-needed financial 
resources  . We sought co llaborations with our 
community partners to join in their efforts; we expanded the reach of our financial capability 
programs to help more people  . From prov iding vital 
medical supplies to feeding the hungry to helping people regain financial stability, we were active in helping people survive and then thrive through the 
personal and economic effects of COVID-19  .”
We implemented a new virtual volunteerism 
initiative in response to the pandemic, which 
enabled our employees whose devotion to serving communities increased with so many in need. 
The platform enabled employees to seek and find 
opportunities to volunteer their time and talent in a SOCIAL
COVID-19 GRANTS SUPPORT AREAS
 Economic 
Development 
 Technical Assistance
 Food Services & 
Supplies
 Operational Support Affordable Housing 
Services
 Health Care & 
Medical Suppliers
 Low- and Moderate-
Income Services
“We were active 
in helping 
people survive 
and then thrive 
through the 
personal and economic effects 
of COVID-19.”
-BYNA ELLIOTT , SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF ENTERPRISE RESPONSIBILITY OFFICER
virtual fashion . Further, we ensured that our financial 
education platforms for both adults and young 
people were made available to a wider audience 
online so we could help community members regain 
financial stability .    
*Chart reflects breakdown of $5.75 million in grants disbursed out of the $8.75 million commitment as of July 6, 2020.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 48Inclusion & Diversity 
Fifth Third strives to be the One Bank people— 
all people—most value and trust.
SOCIAL
As an intentionally inclusive, diverse and thriving organization, we 
want each employee, and each customer, to feel valued, respected 
and understood  . Employe es at Fifth Third are encouraged to bring 
their authentic selves and best thinking into the workplace to fully 
leverage the power of our diversity and our commonality  .  
We are all One Bank.
OUR COMMITMENT
Greg Carmichael, our chairman, president and 
CEO, made a public commitment to inclusion and 
diversity in 2017 by signing the CEO Action for 
Diversity and Inclusion pledge , which outlines a 
specific set of actions the CEOs will take to cultivate 
a trusting environment where all ideas are welcomed, and where employees feel comfortable and 
empowered to have dicussions about diversity and 
inclusion  . Addition ally, our membership on the CEO 
Action for Diversity and Inclusion Financial Services 
Roundable enables us to operationalize the CEO 
Action pledge commitment within our organization  .   
To support an inclusive workplace, we have  
adopted the following diversity statement :  
“Fifth Third believes that inclusion and diversity 
are essential to living our Core Values; serving 
our customers; delivering financial performance; 
and being recognized as a leader in building an 
engaging workplace, a strong supplier base and 
vibrant communities.” We are committed to equality, equity and inclusion  
with our employees, customers and suppliers  . In 
2020, we launched a new Executive Diversity 
Leadership Council to develop and deliver strategic 
short- and long-term solutions to advance our efforts  . 
Equality, Equity and Inclusion  is one of four 
strategic initiatives for the Human Capital division 
of Fifth Third Bank  . In 2019, we w ere honored again 
to achieve a perfect score from the Human Rights 
Campaign and the distinction of Best Places to Work 
for LGBT Equality, as well as inclusion in Forbes’ 
Best Employers for Diversity ranking, the Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index and the Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index  . In 2020, we w ere named, 
for the first time, one of the best places to work for 
people with disabilities as part of the 2020 Disability 
Equality Index, the nation’s most comprehensive 
benchmarking tool for disability inclusion  . These 
honors demonstrate our commitment to cultivating 
an inclusive workforce that can effectively serve a 
diverse customer base and all communities  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 49EXECUTIVE DIVERSITY LEADERSHIP 
COUNCIL
A new Executive Diversity Leadership Council was established at Fifth Third Bank in 2020  . It has adopted 
the following purpose statement:
Fifth Third is committed to accelerating its equality, equity and inclusion efforts 
and outcomes.  From our recruiting practices and employee policies to our customer 
products and services to our support of community and supplier partnerships, we will 
work hard, thoughtfully and diligently on delivering and driving immediate, near-term 
and strategic long-term support to advance inclusion and diversity, with a specific focus 
on racial and economic inclusion.
The Executive Diversity Leadership Council will work to achieve and sustain the 
Bank’s bold, measurable outcomes by ensuring inclusion and diversity efforts are 
an organizational priority and that they are grounded in the collective voices of 
our employees, customers and communities.  The current primary focus is on Black 
employees to ensure they understand that racial discrimination is not tolerated at Fifth 
Third Bank, that their contributions are valued and that they are vital to this journey. 
Kal a Gibson , Council Chair and 
head of Business BankingCharlie Bradley , head of Enterprise 
Program Management OfficeShellie Creson , chief auditor Byna Elliott , chief enterprise 
responsibility officerKevin Lavender , head of 
Commercial Bank
Phil
 McHugh , head of Regional 
Banking, Wealth & Asset 
Management and Business BankingChristine Nester , chief learning 
officerNancy Pinckney , director of 
Human Capital Business ConsultingPhenise Poole , deputy general 
counselJude Schramm , chief information 
officer
Bob S
haffer , chief Human 
Resources officerStephanie Smith , chief Inclusion & 
Diversity officerTim Spence , head of Consumer 
Bank, Payments and StrategyTayfun Tuzun , chief financial officer Susan Zaunbrecher , chief legal 
officer and board secretary
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 50ACTION AGAINST RACISM 
In the wake of widespread civil unrest that began 
in May 2020, Greg Carmichael made a prompt 
public statement against racism and the Bank 
committed itself to being part of the solution  .
Our commitment  was more than words; it resulted 
in concrete actions that are ongoing  . It was 
necessary that we acknowledge that we hadn’t 
previously done enough, as was recognizing 
our work to address shortcomings was far from over. As the nation reached a tipping point in a 
long history of racial injustice impacting Black 
Americans, we, too, were galvanized to double-
down on our efforts  . 
Our commitment was more than 
words;  it resulted in concrete 
actions that are ongoing.
The formation of our new Executive Diversity 
Leadership Council was an important step  . The 
council is charged with ensuring equality and inclusion in our workplace with an initial focus on 
our Black employees  . An ente rprise-wide initiative, 
supported by the Enterprise Program Management 
Office, also was launched to ensure accountability 
and achieve measurable and sustainable progress  .
Further, unconscious bias training was launched 
in July for all employees as a requirement. As new 
employees join the Bank, they will take this training as 
part of their onboarding  . In addit ion, we conducted 
listening sessions with our African-American Business 
Resource Groups to understand how its employee 
members were feeling and to get their input on 
recommendations for the Bank moving forward  . All 
employees also had access to resources to help guide empathetic, supportive conversations about the 
inequality that plagues the nation  . Resou rces also 
were added to LifeWorks, our Employee Assistance 
Program, to help address feelings of anxiety, sadness 
and worry among employees  .
To spur and help facilitate fruitful discussions and 
progress, our Inclusion and Diversity team created 
the Fifth Third Inclusion Toolkit: From Awareness to Advocacy . The toolkit has useful terms, actions 
community members can take, movies that can 
be watched, recommended books and articles, 
and other ally and anti-racism resources  . We were 
pleased not only to provide this helpful resource 
to our employees, but also to make it available to 
customers and communities on 53.com/racialequity  . 
“Let me be perfectly clear:  
at Fifth Third, racism and 
discrimination in any form 
is not tolerated.”
-CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO GREG CARMICHAEL , MAY 30, 2020
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 51Fifth Third Observes Juneteenth 
On June 16, 2020, The American Banker  published 
an article, “Fifth Third, Truist among banks closing 
early to observe ‘Juneteenth,’” by Alissa Kline  . 
It acknowledged that Fifth Third was the first 
financial institution to announce plans to observe 
the date the last Confederate slaves were told they 
were free  . Offi ces and banking centers were closed 
at 2 p  .m . Ju ne 19 and employees were paid for a 
full day’s work  .   
“We cannot fix 400 years of injustice with one day,” 
said Stephanie Smith, senior vice president and 
chief inclusion and diversity officer, in the story  . 
“But we can start taking steps to acknowledge the 
fact that there is racial inequality and inequity in 
organizations, corporations and communities and 
we want to play our part in saying that we’re willing 
to recognize difficult moments  .” 
Also on Juneteenth, our new Executive Diversity 
Leadership Council held its first meeting  . “Given 
the events of recent weeks, now it’s about 
pressing the gas pedal and refining our efforts to 
make sure our Black employees are coming along 
on this journey with us,”  Smith said of the meeting  .
Chairman, President & CEO Greg Carmichael said, 
“As we observe Juneteenth, each of us should 
pause, reflect, and contemplate its significance 
and what it meant 155 years ago, what it means 
today, and how we might take action to make 
tomorrow better for everyone  . Wh ile it is only one 
small step toward a more racially just and equitable 
organization and community, we believe it is a step 
in the right direction  .” 
“We want to 
play our part 
in saying that 
we’re willing 
to recognize 
difficult moments.”
-STEPHANIE SMITH , SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY OFFICER
Fifth Third was named a Winning 
“W” Company by 2020 Women 
on Boards  for achieving 20% 
female representation on our 
Board. Fifth Third’s Board is 33% 
female as of July 2020.
GOVERNANCE 
The Bank’s Corporate Responsibility and Reputation 
Committee oversees our inclusion and diversity 
strategy and progress  . Th e CRR Committee is 
chaired by Fifth Third’s chief communications 
and reputation officer and is accountable to the 
Enterprise Risk Management Committee  . 
The CRR Committee’s responsibilities with respect 
to inclusion and diversity are to elevate the 
performance and reputation of the Bank by:
• Overseeing inclusion and diversity strategy, 
programs, policies and practices  .  
• Reviewing Fifth Third’s diversity statement annually  .
• Monitoring trends in stakeholder inquiries, shareholder resolutions and efforts to create more transparent reporting on diversity demographics, 
programs and policies, and ensure accountability  .  
• Making an annual decision regarding diversity 
disclosures  .
• Monitoring major trends in inclusion and  
diversity matters  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 52EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
Talent diversity is of upmost 
importance at every level of our 
Company, from our Board of 
Directors to our executive team 
to our nearly 20,000 employees.  
Publishing diversity demographic data is part of 
that commitment  . It’ s a practice we started in 2017 
with the publication our 2016 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report  .Demographic Information  as of 12/31/19
WomenPersons 
of Color
Exec/Senior Managers 25% 10%
First/Mid-level Managers 51% 18%
Professionals 51% 18%
All Others ** 69% 34%
Total 60% 26%
**Source: Dec. 31, 2019, employee data produced in a manner consistent with EEO-1 reporting with 
aggregation across EEO-1 ethnicity categories. “All Others” is a combination of the following EEO-1 
job categories: sales workers and administrative support.
Linda W. Clement-Holmes Named to Board of Directors 
Fifth Third announced 
the appointment of Linda 
W . Clement-Holmes as an 
independent director of 
Fifth Third Bancorp on 
July 20, 2020, effective 
immediately  .  
“We are delighted to welcome Linda Clement-
Holmes to our Board,” said Greg D  . Car michael, 
chairman, president and chief executive officer  .  
“As the former chief information officer for The 
Procter & Gamble Company, Linda is uniquely 
positioned to help us advance in the rapidly 
evolving technological landscape and embrace 
the opportunities for consumer-oriented financial 
services.  We also welcome her leadership in 
diversity and inclusion, which will enhance Board 
oversight of this important area  .” 
Clement-Holmes retired from Procter & Gamble 
in 2018 after a 35-year career that culminated in 
the role of chief information officer  . She i s widely 
recognized as a leader in information technology, 
information security and digital and IT strategy, and 
has been listed in Computerworld’s Premier 100 IT 
Leaders, Uptown Professional’s Top 100 Executives, 
and Black Enterprise magazine’s Top Executives  . She  
is a fellow at the IT Senior Management Forum and a 
recipient of numerous awards, including the Howard 
University Global Visionary Leadership Award  . 
Clement-Holmes also has been a pioneer in diversity 
and inclusion  . She s erved as Procter & Gamble’s first 
chief diversity officer from 2010-2012 and advanced 
to become the first African-American woman named 
to Procter & Gamble’s Global Leadership Council  . 
“I am very pleased to join the Fifth Third Board,” 
said Clement-Holmes. “Fifth Third is recognized as a 
digital innovator and is on record in its commitment 
to be part of the solution on racial equity,” said 
Clement-Holmes  . “I’ m excited about the opportunity 
to help lead the Bank boldly into its next chapter  .” 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 53Hosetta Coleman, Fifth Third’s senior manager of university relations
Multicultural Recruitment Strategy
Recruiting and engaging an inclusive and diverse 
workforce is a top priority  . Ou r collaboration 
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs) is one way we work to nurture a 
multicultural employee base  . 
According to a 2018 United Negro College Fund 
article, HBCUs make up only 3% of the country’s 
colleges and universities, yet they enroll 10% 
of all African American students and produce 
20% of African American graduates  . We have 
invested nearly $300,000 with HBCUs since 
2017 to help prepare high-achieving students—
many of whom are first-generation college 
students and come from low- and moderate-
income families—to excel in the workforce. 
Our investment includes over 500 service hours 
providing skills coaching and delivering our Fifth 
Third financial empowerment programs to help 
reduce student debt  .
Twenty-six students have been hired by Fifth 
Third from nine HBCUs since our program began  . 
In recognition for our efforts with HBCUs, 
Hosetta Coleman, Fifth Third’s senior manager 
of university relations, was appointed to the 
HBCU Business Deans Roundtable Advisory Board in 2019. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES 
We are proud of our decades-long leadership 
with Project SEARCH, a school-to-work transition 
program for students with developmental or 
physical disabilities  . Th e goal of Project SEARCH 
is competitive employment at the end of the one-
year program  . We w ere one of the founders of the 
public-private collaboration, which is operated out 
of the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center  . 
Project SEARCH has operated at Fifth Third 
campuses for over 15 years in Cincinnati and in 
Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Over that time, we have 
trained more than 350 individuals, hired dozens 
and sponsored an annual golf outing that has 
contributed $1  .6 mil lion to date to help support  
the program  .
Last year, we also collaborated with Ayco, a 
company that provides a financial wellness 
program for our employees, to offer a special 
financial education course for teammates who may 
live with or have family members with a disability. 
This unique need was identified by our Individuals 
with Disabilities Business Resource Group (BRG)  . 
The session focused on helping these employee 
families manage everyday expenses, leverage 
Fifth Third benefits, make the most of government 
resources and establish a plan for long-term needs  .  
“Often, caregivers of individuals 
with disabilities are so busy 
they may not have time to seek 
out this type of information, 
and I’m excited to see that 
Ayco and Fifth Third offer this 
valuable resource.”
-BROOK BRAATZ , ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT AND 
MORTGAGE DELIVERY CONSULTANT
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 54“I have a child with a disability, and not only did 
I personally want this information so I can plan 
financially for his future, but I also wanted to 
help others who may have a family member with 
a disability,” said Brook Braatz, assistant vice 
president and mortgage delivery consultant  . “O ften, 
caregivers of individuals with disabilities are so 
busy they may not have time to seek out this type 
of information, and I’m excited to see that Ayco and 
Fifth Third offer this valuable resource  .”
Fifth Third was the first bank to design a checking 
account for the Achieving a Better Life Experience 
program, known as ABLE , in 2017. The special 
checking account is an outcome of our work with 
the National ABLE Alliance, a consortium of states 
dedicated to providing those living with disabilities 
and their families with low-cost investment 
products  . We s aw a 78% increase in program 
participation from 2018 to 2019  .
ABLE accounts are state-sponsored saving and 
investment accounts that allow individuals with 
disabilities and their families to save and invest 
private assets for disability-related expenses without 
losing, or losing access to, federal-means tested 
benefits, such as Supplemental Security Income, 
Medicaid, HUD, SNAP and other benefits  .*
VETERANS 
Fifth Third salutes those who serve our country  .  
We are proud of our long history of supporting 
veterans , especially those who are Fifth Third 
employees  . We implemented new enhanced paid 
These mothers and grandmothers are members of Blue Star Mothers, an organization 
that is dedicated to supporting their military children. Fifth Third sponsored this booth 
on National Purple Heart Day in 2019 on Fountain Square in Cincinnati.
*Certain limitations may apply based on applicable state or federal law.
Fifth Third salutes United States Air Force Veteran Kendall Meyer. He was one of the veterans 
Fifth Third helped during its participation in Heart of West Michigan United Way’s Operation 
United in 2019, a day of outdoor landscaping and repair projects at the homes of 23 Kent 
County veterans. Sadly, Kendall passed away in July 2019. His daughter Bethany Vokoviak 
said he was, “an incredible man, friend and our hero.”
military leave guidelines in 2018 that provide 
for 30 days of paid military leave per year and 
provide paid leave for any kind of military service, 
including drills and training and not just active 
duty, a distinction many companies do not make. 
The guidelines were driven by feedback from the 
Bank’s Military Business Resource Group, an active 
group of employee veterans and allies that advocate 
for the military—both inside the Company and out—
and is visible in the community through the year  .  
In 2019, we collaborated with HirePurpose, a 
technology company empowering the next 
great generation of American veterans, to bring 
additional veterans into Fifth Third. HirePurpose 
is the only career platform owned and operated 
by veterans and specifically designed for the 
military community  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 55INCLUSION COUNCILS AND 
BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS
Our inclusion councils and business resource groups give employees 
opportunities for networking, learning and personal growth, as well as 
an outlet through which to volunteer and serve the community.
We operate 13 inclusion councils and 70 local BRGs  . 
Senior executives also lead eight virtual Enterprise 
BRGs that enable all employees to participate 
regardless of their work location—greatly 
expanding access for employees with alternative 
work arrangements and those who work outside 
of our core Consumer Bank footprint  . Ea ch BRG 
focuses on three pillars: employee development, 
community involvement and business innovation  .
FIFTH THIRD BRG s CELEBRATE  
LATINO COMMUNITY
Our BRGs celebrated the contributions of our 
Latino employees, customers and communities in 
a special way during National Hispanic Awareness 
Month last year. In Charlotte, North Carolina, Latino 
BRG members engaged at the Latin America 
Chamber Luncheon, HOLA Festival and the El Grito 
Festival  . Th ey also spent time with Latin Americans 
Working for Achievement, hosting six financial 
education workshops for high school students 
applying for college  . Ad ditionally, Charlotte 
Latino BRG members worked with Latin American 
business resource groups from Duke Energy and El 
Camino Church to prepare the Latino professional 
community for employment opportunities  . 
Volunteerism in Cincinnati included work with the 
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and participation in 
United Way’s National Hispanic Volunteer Day  . Th e 
group’s members painted and landscaped a local 
school  . The BRG also celebrated the Latino heritage 
and focused on Latino empowerment at the Ohio 
Latino Student Summit at the University of Cincinnati  .
Attendance was strong at the Mexican Kermes/
Fiesta in Detroit, sponsored by the BRG and 
organized by the Association of Mexican 
Professionals in Michigan  . Th e BRG was involved 
in the area’s first Hispanic Festival, organized by 
Centro Cultural Hispano, and sponsored the Run for 
the Dead 5K, organized by the Southwest Detroit 
Business Association  . In a ddition, the BRG joined 
in a networking event called After Hours Hispanic 
Leadership Connect  . We stern Michigan’s Latino BRG 
team members commemorated the month through 
food, music, games and interactive educational 
displays and activities that focused on Latino culture  .
The Northeast Ohio Multicultural BRG hosted 
a Hispanic Heritage Month opening ceremony 
that recognized leaders of Cleveland’s Hispanic 
community and the city of Cleveland’s Hispanic 
employees  . Th e group also participated in  
Hispanic Senior Day, which blends a celebration 
of Hispanic heritage, culture, music and food with 
health screenings  . The Western Michigan Latino BRG celebrated Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 56SUPPLIER DIVERSITY 
Supplier diversity  is a strategic imperative at the 
Bank and was recognized as such in 2015 with 
the establishment of a formal supplier diversity 
program.  Diverse suppliers are relevant in every 
aspect of our business  . We a re committed to 
identifying potential additional suppliers, providing 
access to financing for undercapitalized businesses 
and investing in building supplier management 
capabilities  . Ad ditionally, we consider diverse 
suppliers as part of every engagement for business  .
The Supplier Diversity leadership team has 
developed a multi-year plan for the growth and 
expansion of these efforts  . It i ncludes educating, 
training and developing Black-owned and other 
minority-owned, veteran-owned, and woman-
owned small businesses.  The work is intended 
to build a more robust pipeline, educate on the 
request-for-proposal process and support suppliers 
with technical assistance and training  . Fi fth Third 
also supports programs that assist diverse suppliers 
in accessing capital and internal support so they can compete for the Bank’s business on a fair and 
equal basis  . Since the inception of the Supplier Diversity 
program, Fifth Third has grown its spending with 
diverse suppliers from $8.2 million in 2014 to $63.1 
million in 2019.  In 2020, a diverse managed service 
provider for IT staffing needs was onboarded 
that we expect will secure and sustain the Bank’s 
supplier diversity spend for years to come  .  
As a result of these efforts, Fifth Third has been 
recognized in the following ways:
• Named Best of the Decade by Minority Business  
News USA.
• Named to Top Corporation for three  consecutive years by Women Business Enterprise National Council .
• Marsha Thornton, director of supplier diversity, featured in Women’s Enterprise USA . 
• Named 2020 and 2019 All-Stars of Supplier Diversity by Minority Business News U.S.
In addition, Executive Vice President Kala Gibson, 
head of Business Banking, serves on the National 
Minority Supplier Development Council  Board  
of Directors  .
FIFTH THIRD DIVERSE SPEND
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 57ANNUAL SUPPLIER DIVERSITY SUMMIT
In 2019, Fifth Third hosted its fifth annual Supplier 
Diversity Summit. Themed, “Success through 
Synergy,” the Summit focused on educating 
minorities and women on the best business 
practices. The Summit is hosted each year to help 
Black- and other minority-, women- and veteran-
owned companies do more business with Fifth 
Third  . It also is a way for those owners to gain 
insight from each other and to network with other corporate partners, including Procter & Gamble, 
Cintas and Messer Construction  . Mor e than 150 
people representing 75 companies from across 15 
states participated  .
The program featured national and local speakers, 
including Pamela Prince Eason, president of the 
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council, and 
Sheila Mixon, executive director of the Women’s 
Business Council Ohio River Valley; and match-
making meetings at which diverse business owners 
learned about sourcing opportunities with 13 
national and local business partners in addition to 
Fifth Third  . 
Fifth Third’s Director of Supplier Diversity Marsha Thornton (left) 
congratulates Anne Weigand, director of happiness for Aunt Flow, 
winner of the 2019 Supplier Diversity Summit pitch contest.  
At the 2019 Supplier Diversity Summit are Fifth Third’s Stephanie 
Smith, Byna Elliott, Greg Carmichael and Marsha Thornton.
During the pitch competition, which was open to 
female business owners whose companies focused 
on innovation, six woman-owned companies 
competed for a monetary prize to go toward costs associated with attending the 2020 WBENC 
national convention.  The winner of the event was 
Anne Weigand, director of Happiness for Aunt Flow, 
a company that aims to provide menstrual products 
free of charge to all women and to encourage 
positive menstrual education for men and women  . 
The company developed a free-vending menstrual 
product dispenser to ensure that free, quality menstrual products are available and accessible 
at businesses and schools  . Wei gand was excited 
to participate and hopes to continue to spread 
awareness about the company’s products  . “I am 
thankful for Fifth Third and the WBENC community 
for the continued support, guidance, and direction 
as we continue to grow,” said Weigand  .  
Through the years, Fifth Third has developed 
many partnerships with organizations that focus 
on enhancing supplier diversity efforts , including 
the National Minority Supplier Development 
Council , the U.S. Small Business Administration , 
the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs , The Financial 
Services Roundtable for Supplier Diversity , and the 
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 58FEATURE
A Special Exhibit at the Fifth Third Museum:  
How the Charlotte R. Schmidlapp Fund Helped  African American Women 
Nadine Roberts Waters dreamed of being 
a classical soprano  . Despite racial, gender 
and financial barriers, the Charlotte R  . 
Schmidlapp Fund, Fifth Third Bank, Trustee, 
helped make that dream a reality  . W aters’ 
story was part of a unique exhibit in 2020 
featuring the Fund and the women it 
helped at the Fifth Third Museum  .  
Waters was born in Wyoming, Ohio, in 1892  . H er 
father was the first Black supervisor for the U  .S . 
Postal Service in Cincinnati and her mother was 
a teacher  . I n the early 1920s, Waters was denied 
entrance to Cincinnati’s music conservatory 
because she was Black. With some financial aid, 
she moved to Boston to study at the New England 
Conservatory of Music, where she majored in voice 
and languages  . 
While there, she won the National Federation of 
Music Clubs state contest and was the sole Black 
performer among 15 white finalists  . T he NFMC 
refused to present Waters the award because of 
her race, but a contest judge rallied behind her and 
elevated the injustice to the national press  . A lthough 
Waters never received the award, the incident 
forced the NFMC to become more inclusive  .
After Waters graduated in 1929, a loan from the 
Charlotte R. Schmidlapp Fund made it possible 
for her to travel to Paris where she trained under 
renowned vocalists and performed at premier 
venues. Composer Henri Tomasi dedicated his 
symphonic poem, “Chanson des Sables (Song of the 
Sands”), to Waters which she later sang in New York 
City’s Town Hall  . S he is believed to be the first artist 
to sing for the American public in African  . 
“Nadine Roberts Waters”
Waters returned to New York City in 1935, 
performing on radio and in various venues  . I n 1940, 
she sang at Grace Church for Britain’s King George 
IV and Queen Elizabeth  . S he shared a stage with 
Eleanor Roosevelt and Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia 
when she sang to over 1,000 people at a convention  . 
She also performed the lead role in the first all-Black 
production of “Aida  .”
Waters returned to Wyoming in 1944 where, for 
the next 40 years, she performed for churches and 
other organizations.  She died at the age of 93 in 
1985  . S he once said, “I prayed to be the star I was 
born to be, not to disappoint myself, my parents and 
my race  . I w as always singing where angels feared 
to tread  .” 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 59SOCIALEmployees
To deliver long-term sustainable value for all we 
serve, Fifth Third strives to recruit, retain and develop the best people.
Our competitive pay, robust health and wellness benefits, and 
innovative programs like concierge services make Fifth Third the 
employer of choice and our customers benefit from the experience, 
talent and engagement of a committed workforce  . 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
We increased our minimum wage from $15 to 
$18 in 2019 for approximately 4,900 employees, 
representing nearly 25% of our workforce. The 
change represented a 50% increase in our minimum 
wage since the beginning of 2018, when we raised 
the wage from $12 to $15  . Th at increase contributed 
to a 16% year-over-year reduction in employee 
turnover in 2018 in jobs most affected by the 
minimum wage  . 
The new $18 minimum hourly wage primarily 
benefits employees in retail branches and 
operations support functions such as customer 
contact centers  . Fo r affected employees, the $18 
minimum wage amounted to roughly $500 more per month on a pre-tax basis—that’s a car payment, 
a student loan payment or the start of a savings 
plan for the future  . It represents an additional 
investment by the Bank, on an annualized basis, of 
approximately $15 million to help our employees 
succeed at work and at home. By continuing to invest in our talent, we’re able 
to attract and retain employees who share our 
commitment to improving the lives of our customers 
and those in our communities  .
In addition to compensation, Fifth Third offers a 
competitive and comprehensive suite of traditional 
benefits, including medical, dental and vision 
insurance  . Me dical plans cover preventive screenings 
at 100% because we know early detection provides 
the best outcomes  . Pr eventative screening rates at 
Fifth Third for cervical cancer, cholesterol and colon 
cancer exceed industry benchmarks  .
Fifth Third also offers a 401(K) retirement program 
that pays a match up to 7% of an employee’s 
contributions  . 80 % of employees participate in 
this plan and employees may contribute up to the 
maximum allowable by law  . Th ese benefits are 
augmented by innovative wellness programs and 
benefits unique to Fifth Third  .  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 60MYWELLNESS
Employees have the opportunity to earn up to 
$1,800 per year for completing certain financial and 
physical wellness activities.  They are supported in 
their wellness journey by a network of 200 Fifth Third 
employees who volunteer as wellness champions  . 
Health and wellness programs at Fifth Third 
encourage healthy behaviors and focus 
on physical, mental and financial wellness. 
Memberships to fitness facilities as well as programs 
like WW (formerly Weight Watchers) are subsidized  . 
For mental health, employees receive up to six 
confidential counseling sessions annually through 
our employee assistance program  . Th ey can also 
take advantage of a user-friendly app with a variety 
of wellness-related tools  . In a ddition, personalized 
coaching and resources from program partners 
support our employees and their families  . 
Employees can get personal financial coaching 
and education for themselves and their spouses or 
partners through our financial wellness program 
provided by Ayco. Education tools and student debt 
refinancing options were recently launched through 
our 401(k)-record keeper and CommonBond , a 
leading financial technology company  . LEAVE
When employees require a leave of absence from 
work, our programs are ready to assist  . Parental 
bonding leave enables all full- and eligible part-
time employees welcoming a new child to receive 
four weeks of 100% paid time away  to bond 
with their child  . Th e leave is for both mothers and 
fathers and includes new family additions through 
birth, adoption, foster care and surrogacy  . Th is is 
in addition to the six week to eight week maternity 
leave benefit  . 
In 2018, a new enhanced paid military leave policy 
was introduced  . Gu idelines provide 30 days of leave 
per year; by comparison, the federal government 
offers 15 days of paid military leave annually  . Th is 
benefit provides paid leave for any kind of military 
duty, including drills and training  . Th e policy enables 
employees to serve our country while continuing to 
support their families and career path  .
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we updated our 
Time Away policies to support our employees. 
Sick time balances were reloaded in July 2020 to 
their full-year allotment of time  . We a nnounced that 
unused purchased vacation time in 2020 would be 
refunded at the end of the year, and we adjusted our regular vacation carryover policy for 2020 to award 
all eligible employees five vacation days in 2021, in 
addition to normal vacation time  .
INNOVATIVE BENEFITS
The Fifth Third Concierge  is a free virtual or on-
site service to support employees’ well-being  . 
The service helps employees manage a variety of 
personal tasks such as shopping, coordinating travel 
and more while meeting work obligations  .
Our Maternity Concierge  offers unique and 
innovative support for expectant parents , women 
on maternity leave, adoptive parents, guardians and 
those with small children up to 1 year of age  . Th e 
concierge service helps with researching child care options, scheduling wellness visits and planning 
birthday parties  . We partner with Best Upon Request to provide our 
concierge services to employees  . 
Our Back-Up Care  program, offered by Bright 
Horizons, provides access to high-quality back-up 
care for children, adult and elder family members of employees during a lapse or breakdown in normal 
care arrangements  . Bot h in-home and center-based 
options are available depending on location  . Al l 
employees are eligible for 15 days of back-up care 
per calendar year with nominal copays  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 61RECRUITING 
Attracting diverse and bright talent is essential to our 
success as a Company  . A c ritical step in a successful 
recruiting  program is offering competitive pay  . I n 
addition to raising our minimum wage 50% in the last 
two years, we also adopted a footprint-wide ban on 
salary history in 2019. This means that Fifth Third 
will not ask for or use a candidate’s current salary as 
a factor in determining an employment offer  . T his 
approach enables us to reduce historical gender or 
racial pay inequities  .  
The combination of compensation, best-in-class 
benefits, innovative programs that foster work 
and life balance, financial rewards for physical 
and financial wellness activities and the Bank’s 
reputation for being a business and community 
leader forms an attractive value proposition for 
prospective employees  .
The Bank invests significant resources into talent 
acquisition to find the best possible candidates 
and to ensure the diversity of our workforce 
reflects the communities we serve. Our talent 
acquisition strategy works to: 
• Help source and hire effectively and efficiently  .
• Use advanced technology to identify, influence 
and attract top talent  .
• Advise and consult with line of business leaders to 
develop strong recruiting strategies  .
• Offer a robust pipeline of qualified and diverse 
candidates to decision-makers  .
• Provide scalable talent acquisition resources 
throughout the footprint  .
Fifth Third will not ask for or 
use a candidate’s current salary 
as a factor in determining an 
employment offer.
These students-turned-employees joined Fifth Third by way of the Bank’s 
HBCU strategy. They were celebrated at an intern luncheon in 2019.  
DIVERSE RECRUITING AND HIRING
Our diversity recruiting outreach strategy 
enables us to build strong relationships with a 
qualified diverse applicant pool that reflects the demographics of our markets through a focus on 
women, minority and LGBT populations, individuals 
with disabilities and veterans  . P art of this strategy 
includes relationships with key regional and community-based organizations and connections 
with diverse student organizations on campuses in 
our local markets  . 
In 2020, we developed virtual relationships with 
organizations like Cincinnati State, the Cincinnati 
Diversity & Inclusion Career Fair, Ohio Means Jobs, University of Illinois-Chicago and the University of 
Toledo  . O ur multicultural recruitment strategy and 
HBCU strategy as well as our initiatives with Project 
SEARCH for individuals with disabilities, and Hire 
Purpose for veterans are detailed beginning on Page 
54 of this report  . 
For several decades, the Bank has worked 
closely with colleges and universities across our 
footprint to recruit and hire the best and brightest 
students.  The strategy also emphasizes internships 
and long-term employment through various 
leadership programs, providing a talent pipeline for 
professional roles across the organizations  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 62Fifth Third’s 1819 Innovation Hub at the University of Cincinnati.
Our strategic focus on HBCUs deepens the pipeline 
of the best and brightest diverse talent and 
strengthens tomorrow’s leaders  . 
In recent years, students have been recruited from 
nine HBCUs: Central State Universit y, Clark Atlanta 
University , Florida A&M University , Johnson C. 
Smith University , Wilberforce University , Tennessee 
State University , North Carolina A&T University , 
Spelman College  and Morehouse College  . These 
schools’ strong business and science, engineering, 
technology and math programs were noted for 
developing the kind of talent that would excel at 
Fifth Third  . T hrough the strategy, the Bank has 
increased its offers to multicultural students  .
COLLABORATIVE PARTNERSHIPS
Collaborative partnerships like the one we have 
with the University of Cincinnati support our 
recruiting strategy  . Fifth Third recently opened 
space in UC’s 1819 Innovation Hub to strengthen 
our collaboration with the university and its 
students as well as other regional companies. 
The 1819 Hub is regarded as the university’s front 
door to the region, where businesses can connect 
directly with UC faculty and students  . Robust relationships with premier colleges 
and universities across the country have been 
established by mentoring teams of students 
focused on analyzing complex topics in business 
and technology as part of the academic curriculum  .
INTERNSHIPS 
Fifth Third typically hosts 50 to 100 summer 
interns each year.  These internships allow students 
to gain valuable experience in the financial services 
industry and help train them for a future career 
with Fifth Third  . I n 2020, due to quarantine and 
social distancing restrictions, we pivoted to allow 
86 interns across 15 departments to work with 
us remotely  . I n addition to assigned work, we 
introduced a 10-week learning plan to enable 
our interns to learn about banking and develop 
foundational knowledge and skills important for 
leaders at Fifth Third Bank  . I nterns also got the 
opportunity to hear from our executives and learn 
about each other through virtual networking and 
capstone projects  . One intern said, “We are so 
lucky to have our full internship continue during 
this pandemic. The managers and leadership 
committee have been extremely helpful.”  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 63DEVELOPMENT
Learning and development  must be accessible to 
meet a range of needs for employees and address a 
work environment in which skill needs are changing 
at a breakneck pace  . Development programs 
at Fifth Third are built upon a growth mindset, 
the belief that everyone’s basic abilities can be 
developed through dedication and work inspired 
by a thirst for learning. In 2019, employees at Fifth 
Third completed nearly 640,000 hours of training, 
an average of 32  .5 ho urs per employee  .Learning is more than formal classroom training .  
A rich mix of education, experiences, exposure, and 
tools are necessary to grow knowledge and skills . 
On-demand learning is a newer point of emphasis 
for development at Fifth Third . Employees can take 
advantage of three different on-demand resources, 
including LinkedIn Learning, offering courses across 
business, technology and creative categories; 
Harvard ManageMentor, a learning and performance 
support resource for critical management skills; 
and Pluralsight, a technology skills-based platform 
focused on today’s most in-demand technologies 
and tools .
Leadership Development 
Our leadership development aligns to our 
Company’s Vision, strategic priorities and to the 
enrichment of four leadership capabilities: Create 
Connections, Be a Great Coach , Lead with Agility  
and Act Like an Owner  . 
We have developed a Learning Journey for each 
capability that includes an instructor-led learning 
simulation that is delivered virtually . The immersive 
learning simulations require Fifth Third’s leaders 
to demonstrate their leadership capabilities 
while grappling with the most difficult and 
defining challenges they will likely face as the 
company transforms  . Learning Journeys, along with 
Learning Cafes, are flexible, social and grounded 
in how leaders prefer to learn: online, self-guided 
and interactive, with group interaction such as 
discussion boards and debrief sessions .  
Early Career Support 
For over 30 years, Fifth Third has advocated early 
career support . College leadership programs 
provide foundational knowledge, skills and 
experience for recent college graduates . Full-time 
and internship opportunities are offered in 10 lines 
of business: Audit, Commercial, Credit, Consumer, 
Finance and Accounting, IT, Operations, Risk 
Management, Wealth & Asset Management and 
Strategic Projects and Analytics.The framework we use 
features the 4 “Es” of 
continuous learning:
EDUCATIONClassroom training,  
virtual training, eLearning, 
simuations, articles  
and books  .
EXPERIENCEJob rotations,  
job shadowing, stretch 
assignments,  
paratrooper assignments 
and special projects  .
EXPOSURENetwork, professional 
groups, volunteer activities, 
mentoring and coaching  .
ENVIRONMENTJob aids, performance 
support tools, reference 
materials, videos and 
knowledge management 
systems  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 64Early career programs provide visibility to our 
operations through rotational experiences, 
structured education to develop leadership 
capabilities, exposure to seasoned performers 
and other early career learners, and resources to 
support strong performance and development  . 
Over a two-year period, participants have access to 
formal learning programs, such as consultative skills, 
building relationships using DiSC® assessments, 
emotional intelligence and presentation skills  . T hey 
also participate in the Connect@53 challenge, 
helping them establish their first 53 connections 
at the Bank  . W e also support their growth and 
development through structured community service 
and volunteerism opportunities, as well as an 
introduction to our business resource groups  .
Women in Leadership 
The Women in Leadership program is an 
integrated development experience that is 
targeted to high-performing senior female leaders 
who have significant impact on the success of 
the Bank.  The program is focused on accelerating 
readiness to lead at the next level and, ultimately, 
the C-suite  . B eing intentional and transparent in our 
investment in women benefits not only the women 
in the program, but the Company as a whole, others 
who aspire to the program, and the sponsors who 
invest themselves in the program  . Forty women 
leaders have participated in the program since its 
inception, including 11 in 2019. 
Participants are challenged to look inward, outward 
and forward to leverage their leadership capabilities 
through skill building, coaching and exposure to 
enhance the achievement of business outcomes  .  
Through this experiential opportunity, these female 
leaders gain increased insights to lead authentically 
through understanding and promotion of their 
distinctive strengths and talents  .
Tuition Reimbursement
Fifth Third offers tuition reimbursement to full- and 
part-time employees up to $5,250 and $2,500 per 
calendar year, respectively  .
Tizu Melenik, senior vice president and corporate banking group head, 
participated in the Women in Leadership program in 2019.  
Performance Management 
Fifth Third Bank’s performance management 
process aims to positively impact and optimize both 
employee and organizational performance  . O ur Fifth 
Third Compass provides the strategic direction for 
our Company, as well as forming the foundation for 
how we set expectations and manage performance  . 
Our process highlights the importance of holding 
regular performance and development conversations 
to ensure employees understand expectations, 
check-in on progress and exchange feedback  . T his 
mechanism culminates with a performance review  .
While managers drive many elements of the process, 
employees take an active role in engaging in 
conversations to achieve results  . G uiding principles 
of these conversations include:
• Balance both WHAT and HOW results are achieved.
• Regularly check-in  on progress  .
• Prioritize and align work to business needs.
• Ask openly for and accept feedback  .
• Demonstrate a commitment to development.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 65Talent Review
The annual talent review process evaluates 
employees’ talent strengths and gaps to enable 
achievement of short- and long-term business 
priorities  . T he review process is facilitated by 
the Human Capital team with the following 
intended outcomes:
• Assess our talent to identify employees with 
greater potential  to take on roles of increased 
responsibility  .
• Focus on increasing representation of  
diverse talent  .
• Determine development gaps between current capabilities and what is needed in the next role 
to target development actions  .
• Identify most critical talent actions to track  
for accountability  .
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Listening to and learning from employees is at the 
heart of Fifth Third’s culture and commitment to provide employees a work environment in which they 
can be and do their best  . W e believe an engaged 
workforce is one of our greatest assets  . That is why 
we have a long-standing tradition of measuring 
employee engagement through a comprehensive 
survey as well as other touchpoints throughout the 
employee lifecycle.  Positive engagement survey 
results have earned us several Gallup Great Workplace 
Awards in the past but, more important than the 
recognition, are the actions and outcomes the results provide to help us continuously improve the 
employee experience and, ultimately, our business.Fifth Third uses a holistic approach to collecting 
employee feedback  . Along with the Employee 
Viewpoints Survey, we collect employee feedback 
three times during the onboarding process, as well 
as when employees exit the Bank. To ensure real-
time continuous listening and learning, we deploy 
pulse surveys to gauge employees’ perspectives on 
timely topics and business efforts such as mergers 
and, most recently, the 2020 pandemic  . W ith this rich 
set of employee data, we identify key themes to drive 
meaningful strategic and cultural improvements  . 
The Employee Viewpoints Survey, powered by 
Kincentric’s methodology, aligns with our Core 
Values and belief that engagement is essential 
to driving business outcomes.  Our overall 
engagement score is based on six unique questions 
within three categories—Say, Stay and Strive  .  
• SAY:  Employees consistently speak positively 
about the organization to co-workers, potential 
employees, and customers  .
— I would not hesitate to recommend this 
organization to a friend seeking employment  .
— Given the opportunity, I tell others great things 
about working here  . 
• STAY:  Employees have an intense desire to be a 
member of the organization  .
— It would take a lot to get me to leave this 
organization  .
— I rarely think about leaving this organization to 
work somewhere else  .
• STRIVE:  Employees are motivated to exert extra 
effort and engage in work that contributes to 
business success  .
— This organization inspires me to do my best 
work every day  .
— This organization motivates me to contribute 
more than is normally required to complete  
my work  .Listening to and learning from 
employees is at the heart of  
Fifth Third’s culture and 
commitment to provide employees 
a work environment in which they 
can be and do their best.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 662019 EMPLOYEE VIEWPOINTS 
SURVEY RESULTS
Results of the 2019 Employee 
Viewpoints Survey placed 
Fifth Third 5 percentage points 
above other financial services 
institutions.
After the survey, the real work begins. 
Business leaders and managers have 
access to their individual team results, allowing them to fully understand 
what matters most to their groups 
and develop strategies and actions to 
create a deeper level of engagement 
for employees  . 
Survey Highlights
• Customer-facing employees’ engagement increased 4 percentage points
 over 2018, with 74% engaged  .
• Notable scores in the categories of Risk Management (88%), Inclusion and Diversity (84%) and Strength of 
Managers (82%)  reflect positive aspects 
of our culture  .
• Manager and team engagement remain key drivers to individual engagement , 
reinforcing the importance of shared accountability by all in creating a better 
employee experience  .
• Work practices were recognized as an area of opportunity. Fifth Third continues 
to use employee feedback to make ongoing improvements in technology, 
tools and resources  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 67SOCIALSkills-Based Volunteer Work 
Has “Bright” Future
The Brighton Center in Northern Kentucky is a 
non-profit organization that provides families 
and individuals a community of support to 
help them become self-sufficient . Brighton 
Center programs deliver services in career 
development, child care, financial wellness and 
recovery.  In November 2019, the organization 
launched a database that will enable it to track 
family and individual engagement across all of 
their programs—and the Fifth Third Decision 
Sciences group is lending their expertise to help .   
The Decision Sciences group volunteered 
to provide in-depth analytics to Brighton 
Center that will provide more insight into 
the connectedness of their programs and the 
outcomes they are achieving. After the Decision 
Sciences team presented a proof-of-concept 
presentation to Brighton Center in 2020, the 
organization was assured of the value of data 
and analytics, and were bullish on the ways it will 
help them better serve families in the Northern 
Kentucky and Cincinnati areas .
The project is serving as a pilot for how  
Fifth Third can incorporate skills-based work  
into our corporate citizenship strategy and 
partner with more organizations in serving our 
local communities . WORKPLACE SAFETY AND SECURITY 
Fifth Third is committed to ensuring the safety 
of our customers, employees and the physical 
security of our banking centers . It is a responsibility 
we take very seriously . Our integrated security 
program includes:
•Process for physical security assessments.
•Methodology for determining physical
security needs.
•Deployment of necessary and appropriatephysical security countermeasures . 
•Procedures for reviewing and evaluating
physical security.
The chief security officer is responsible for the 
physical security of all Bank employees, customers 
and facilities . Physical Security manages on-site 
security guards and also manages the Bank’s security operations center, which maintains a 24/7 
call center and monitors over 20,000 cameras and 
alarms across bank facilities, emergency notification 
channels to employees and serves as a centralized 
response group for all security issues .    
Additionally, Fifth Third uses the American Bankers Association’s Toolbox on Bank Robbery Deterrence 
to conduct periodic risk and security assessments 
at its banking centers . This industry evaluation 
tool defines a standard scoring methodology that 
results in an overall physical security risk score for 
a location . Fifth Third implements consistent and 
appropriate physical security steps based upon a 
calculated security risk score.
Fifth Third Physical Security also regularly reviews 
the external and internal influences that impact its 
physical security program . These influences include 
the overall security environment, applicable laws 
and regulations and emerging technology . These 
reviews provide information for Fifth Third to 
adjust its security program as needed to ensure 
that it meets its strategic goal of ensuring a safe 
and secure environment for our customers and 
employees that enhances our business objectives . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 68Communities
Fifth Third is committed to helping people 
achieve their best lives through responsible financial solutions that are right for individuals and the community.
SOCIAL
This legacy of support has confirmed for us that we are capable of 
improving lives and making generational, transformative impacts 
in the communities we serve. 
COMMUNITY ADVISORY FORUM
Fifth Third operates a national Community Advisory 
Forum (CAF) and five regional CAFs. These consist 
of community leaders in a variety of industries who each bring their unique talents, experience and 
diversity together to advise our Company as we 
endeavor to meet the needs of the communities 
served by Fifth Third Bank  . Th e national and regional 
CAFs have sponsors who are members of the 
Bank’s executive team  . Ex ecutive Vice President Phil 
McHugh and Senior Vice President Byna Elliott lead 
the national CAF  . Wh ile we have had a Community 
Advisory Forum operating in a limited capacity for 
many years, we formalized our CAF strategy as part 
of our five-year, $32 billion Community Commitment  .COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT PERFORMANCE
Our Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating 
was “Outstanding” on our most recent exam (for 
the period of Jan . 1, 2014 through June 30, 2016) . 
In 2019, our Company transitioned to a national 
charter under the Office of the Comptroller of 
Currency (OCC) and will undergo our next CRA 
exam after the OCC’s 24-month period requirement 
to complete an exam .  
Our most notable commitment is the $32 billion 
pledge we made—and have now achieved 
and surpassed—in a community development 
plan signed and announced with the National 
Community Reinvestment Coalition (NCRC) in 
2016.  It was a comprehensive plan for investments 
in mortgage lending, small business lending and 
community development lending and investments . 
Our Community Commitment  was originally $30 
billion and was increased in 2018 to $32 billion to 
reflect our expansion in Chicago . As part of the plan, 
we also committed to $213 .2 million in additional 
support for Fifth Third impact initiatives .More than $35.5 billion  
was delivered under the 
Commitment by mid-year 2020.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 69More th
an $35.5 billion was delivered under the 
Commitment by mid 2020—an achievement that we 
share with community partners across our footprint. 
We could not have reached this important milestone 
without their input, constructive feedback and 
collaboration in the delivery of these services to the 
people who most needed them  . We will p ause in the 
fourth quarter of 2020 to celebrate the thousands 
of lives improved and communities uplifted through 
each and every loan, investment, grant and work 
of service  . Our att ention will then turn to additional 
initiatives and plans created with creative input to 
maintain the positive momentum we’ve built over the 
last five years  . 
Fifth Third Bank National Community 
Advisory Forum Members
Farad Ali , Asociar
Barbara Busch , Working In Neighborhoods
Catherine Crosby , City of Toledo
Kevin Dunlap , Rebound, Inc  .
Mary Fran , Accion Chicago
Eloisa Klementich , Invest Atlanta
Kate Little , Georgia Stand Up
Inez Long, Black Business Investment Fund
Mark McDermott , Enterprise Community Partners 
Carolyn Mosby , Mid-States Minority Supplier Council 
Keith Rachey , Community Reinvestment Fund, USA
Buzz Roberts , National Association of Affordable 
Housing Lenders
Aaron Seybert , Kresge Foundation
Jacob Sipe , Indiana Housing and Community 
Development Authority
John Taylor , National Community Reinvestment 
Coalition 
Chris Uhl , IFF
Jesse Van Tol , National Community Reinvestment 
Coalition
Eric Watson , The Kaleidoscope GroupCOMMUNITY 
NEEDS           ASSES S 
MENT
It is important that we partner 
with our communities so that 
we can serve them in the 
most effective, impactful and 
sustainable ways with the 
right combination of access programs, products and 
services, and philanthropy and 
volunteerism.
We do this through our annual Community 
Needs Assessment (CNA) . The CNA is a 
standard method that helps us determine 
the needs of the communities that Fifth 
Third Bank serves. It’s an annual collection 
and analysis of quantitative and qualitative 
data to help inform the Bank of opportunities 
in local and regional lending, investments, 
and service, particularly those in low- and 
moderate-income areas . It also assists us in 
the development of responsive strategies 
addressing identified needs .
For our 2018-19 CNA, we had the assistance 
of Aon Hewitt and Woodstock Institute . The 
survey was sent to 720 community partners 
representing annual budgets from $500,000 
to $50 million . The organizations surveyed 
identified for us the top challenges their 
clients face and gave us a roadmap to put 
our resources to the best use  . The 2019-
2020 survey was also developed, but its 
deployment was delayed due to the  
COVID-19 pandemic .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 702018-2019 CNA Results
*“Other” assumes organization has already acknowledged one of the above focus areas. Affordable housing
 Small business
 Financial stability
 Revitalization stabilization
 Other*32%
14%18%18%PRIMARY FOCUS OF SERVICES
TOP CHALLENGES FOR PRIMARY FOCUS AREAS
Affordable 
housing
•Single, multi,
and rentalunits
•Good-payingjobs
•Capital for developmentSmall business
•Capital/microloans
•“Shovel-ready” or “turn-key” 
real estate
• Programsthat promote women-, Black- and other- minority ownedFinancial stability
•Job training
• Crediteducation
•Financial self-sufficiencyRevitalization/stabilization
•Communityfacilities
(food, heal
th
care)
•Quality retailestablishments
•Business andjob retention
•New businessdevelopment
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:17%17%
 The Value of Sustainability 71Financial &  
Economic Inclusion
The more individuals, families and small 
businesses are empowered to achieve their best lives, the more communities thrive.
SOCIAL
We want to help people reach their full potential. We believe this 
will have a long-lasting, generational impact in neighborhoods, towns 
and cities throughout the U  .S ., especia lly for low- and moderate-
income Americans, by reversing negative cycles and building strong 
foundations for the future  .
We work to deliver comprehensive and innovative 
solutions to challenges facing the people who live 
in the communities we serve  . We’re ta ckling low 
homeownership rates in underserved communities, 
lack of access to capital for small businesses 
seeking to start, grow and expand, and a gap in 
financial education and workforce development  .
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING
Small businesses  are essential to strong and 
economically-vibrant communities  . They cont ribute 
to local economies by bringing growth and 
innovation where the business is established and 
help stimulate economic growth by providing 
employment opportunities  . Small bu sinesses also 
tend to attract talent who invent new products 
or implement new solutions  . Larger b usinesses 
also depend on small businesses to perform vital 
business functions  . More imp ortant, they often 
become centers of the communities themselves  .
Fifth Third takes a unique approach to supporting 
small businesses  . We are comm itted to supporting 
businesses in direct ways through our lending 
and service products and by providing technical assistance  . We also pl ace value in helping customers 
navigate the small business ecosystem, which can 
be complex and difficult, especially for women-, 
Black- and other minority-owned businesses  . We 
know that resources beyond Fifth Third’s are 
available and so we see it as our duty to help them 
leverage those resources  .
One of the more visible ways we do that is through 
our support of community development financial 
institutions  . CDFIs ar e private financial institutions 
that are committed to providing responsible, 
affordable capital to those that might not be in a position to fully leverage traditional banking 
products or resources  . In additi on to providing an 
additional source of capital, CDFIs are able to assist 
small businesses in taking the next step in their 
growth and development by providing business 
coaching and technical assistance  .  
We support CDFIs by providing capital to these 
organizations as well as working hand in hand 
with them on the ground in the communities 
that we serve  . We have st rong partnerships with 
representative CDFIs in the majority of the markets 
in which we operate  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 72Pandemic Support 
In our opinion, small business owners are among the 
most hard-working individuals that we serve  . We 
are deeply committed to serving these owners and 
their employees , the people who invest their time, 
talent and treasure to fulfill a dream and provide 
services to their communities  . It’ s a commitment that 
assumed even higher priority after small businesses 
were adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic , 
government shutdowns and civil unrest  . 
As part of our small business lending COVID-19 
response, we reached out to clients for hardship 
support, guidance on hardship requests and loan 
modifications.  We provided payment deferrals up 
to 90 days, waiving late fees and providing loan 
modification options for small businesses in need  . We 
also provided fee waivers of select fees for 90 days 
on business banking deposit accounts and services  . 
Further, we worked with the SBA to ensure that 
qualified SBA borrowers of 7(a) and Express Loans 
were able to participate in the Loan Payment Relief 
Program  . SBA committed to making monthly 
payments on their behalf for six months. This was 
in addition to the herculean efforts made through 
the Paycheck Protection Program  .  
We worked through 2019 to develop Fifth Third Fast 
Capital, a new digital lending platform designed to 
help small businesses get quick access to needed 
capital  . Phase I of the product was launched just 
prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and provided 
unsecured loans of $100,000 or less  . In th e second 
half of 2020, Fifth Third Fast Capital will relaunch 
and look to Phase II, which will include robust 
mobile and digital capabilities  .    We are deeply committed to 
serving small business owners 
and their employees.
Community Commitment 
Our $32 billion Community Commitment solidified 
our dedication to small businesses by pledging  
$11 .1 billion in small business loans and other 
technical support throughout our markets from 
2016 to 2020 . We delivered on that promise and 
are proud of the steps we have taken to help them 
become more sustainable. 
Out of the Commitment grew a new team of small 
business community bankers  whose time and 
energy focused as much on community leadership 
and volunteerism as on meeting the needs of small 
business clients . This translates directly into a better 
understanding of the local business environment 
and the tools—financial and otherwise—needed to 
start small businesses, grow and expand . Our team of 
small business community bankers continues to grow . 
“It just makes sense that small business owners 
want to work with bankers who have the same 
love and passion for their communities and their 
businesses as they themselves do,” said Executive 
Vice President Kala Gibson, head of Business 
Banking . “Our small business community team is the 
hands and feet of our Company and they live out 
our purpose in a very intentional way .”
“Our small business community 
team is the hands and feet of our 
Company  and they live out our 
purpose in a very intentional way.”
-KALA GIBSON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND HEAD OF BUSINESS BANKING
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 73SBA Lending
An SBA Preferred Lender, Fifth Third took a major 
step in being a top provider of SBA loans in 2020 
with the expansion of SBA-focused staff. This move 
is part of our strategy to become a leader in the 
delivery of SBA products  . SBA lo ans are emphasized 
as part of our comprehensive small business banking 
strategy that will add additional resources as we 
expand capabilities through programming and 
technology  . We als o are expanding SBA partnership 
lending through relationships with CDFIs and 
community development corporations  .
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Affordable housing, or the lack of it, continues to be 
a persistent problem in many communities within 
our footprint  . Our su ite of mortgage products and 
innovative programs like down payment assistance 
(DPA)  have helped to addresss the gap  .   
Introduced in 2016, DPA has been a big boost to 
individuals—over 3,700 people—trying to achieve 
the American dream of homeownership.  As a bank, 
we love helping people buy a home, but we also 
keenly understand the impact homeownership has 
on a community’s health and sustainability  .  DPA offers 3% of the purchase price in down 
payment assistance, up to $7,500, which was 
recently increased from $3,600  . In add ition, our 
mortgage loan officers are always on the lookout for 
ways to combine our DPA product with other state 
and local programs so their customers can take 
advantage of grants and other resources for their 
home purchase  .* Since in ception of the program, 
we’ve provided over $11  .2 milli on in DPA assistance  . 
Among those we helped is Lakisha Edwards who 
became a first-time home buyer in 2019  . Ms . 
Edwards is deaf and had been living independently 
and renting for two years before deciding to 
purchase a house  . Her in come, from supplemental 
security income and employment at Goodwill 
Industries for 16 years, qualified her for our DPA 
program  . In the photo, Fifth Third Bank Regional 
President Tim Elsbrock, Ms. Edwards’ Aunt Sharon 
Stewart, first-time homeowner Lakisha Edwards, 
Community & Economic Development Manager 
Royce Sutton, and Senior Vice President and Mortgage Group Sales Manager Tom Stoll smile in 
front of Ms. Edwards’ home. 
*Lending subject to credit review and approval. To be eligible for the down payment assistance of 3% of the home’s purchase price, up to $7,500, the property must be in one of the following eligible states: MI, IN, IL, 
KY, TN, OH, WV, NC, GA, FL and either located in a low income census tract or borrower must meet the low income limit threshold based on the qualifying income per FFEIC website. Down payment assistance may be 
taxable as income and reported to the IRS. Consult your tax advisor. Not available with all loan products. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 74FEATURE
New Life Springs within Old Bank Building in Lima, OH
Lifelong Lima resident Hettie recalls the old 
First National Bank & Trust Building during 
its heyday  . Bui lt in 1926, the building’s 
Chicago-style architecture with its 
Renaissance Revival influences had been a 
cornerstone of downtown when she visited 
the city in the 1970s to do her banking  . She 
also recalls it sitting empty, vacant and 
deteriorating in the decades since  .
When the city of Lima, state of Ohio, and a host 
of private and public partners—including the 
Fifth Third CDC*, Woda Cooper Companies and 
West Ohio Community Action Partnership—came 
together to redevelop the site, Hettie jumped at the 
opportunity  . She ’s now settled into a pretty, second-
floor apartment overlooking the town square  . “I ca n 
see what’s going on downtown,” she says, given the 
open design and many windows afforded by her 
home, now called 43 Town Square  .
Kelsey and Jeremy agree  . Init ially, the young couple 
wasn’t sure about moving into a 12-story historic 
building with their lively young boys, Jayden, Julian 
and Colton  . But a fter a tour, they were thrilled to 
trade their flood-damaged, rundown trailer home 
where they’d been living for 43 Town Square’s 
wide-open, bright living spaces  . The m odern kitchen 
featuring Energy Star-rated appliances even offered 
a dishwasher, something they’d not had before  . 
Resident Hettie loves Rachel Walker, the property’s manager.
*Fifth Third Community Development Corporation and Fifth Third Community Development Company, LLC. 
Resident photos taken by Amanda Wilson. Used with permission from Woda Cooper Companies.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability
“We have a better environment for our family,” 
Kelsey says of their three-bedroom, two-bath 
apartment  . The bene fits extend beyond their home  . 
The couple likes the on-site amenities, including 
a common play room, computer rooms and 
services like wellness information, job placement 
assistance and transportation services.  
Hettie has even built a family-like relationship with 
the on-site building manager, Rachel Walker, who 
is always there when needed  . “I lo ve her dearly, like 
another daughter,” Hettie said  . Jer emy echoed that  . 
“We love it here,” he said  .  
43 Town Square offers 47 new apartments with 
open concept design, modern finishes and fully-
equipped kitchens  . The p roperty was designed to 
meet Enterprise Green Communities certification 
standards to assure excellent energy efficiency  . 
There are seven units with American Disabilities 
Act features for those with physical disabilities and 
two for those with sight or hearing impairments  . 
Seventy-six percent of the apartments are 
affordable for families and seniors with household 
incomes up to 60% of area median income  . The 
rents range from $313 to $675 per month  .  
With one CDC investment, Fifth Third was able 
to improve the lives of multiple people and 
families while helping preserve a building on the 
National Register of Historic Places, revitalize a 
neighborhood, create affordable housing, and 
contribute to an environmentally-sound, energy-
efficient building. 
75NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION
Since its inception in 1989, the Fifth Third 
Community Development Corporation, together 
with the Fifth Third Community Development 
Company, LLC (Fifth Third CDC), has invested 
more than $4.5 billion in the communities Fifth 
Third serves, including funding over 900 projects 
that focus on affordable housing, commercial, retail, 
office and historic buildings; and the creation or 
preservation of over 62,250 units of housing  . In 
2019, the CDC funded $322 million in projects and 
closed $356  .6 milli on .
These project investments are critical to 
neighborhood stabilization  . Often  these projects 
are anchors of communities  . It is common for CDC 
projects simultaneously to preserve a historic 
building, provide affordable housing with 
embedded social services and also provide space 
for commercial, retail or offices.
Notable CDC investments in 2019 included $8 
million toward the affordable housing portion of 
the redevelopment of the Dayton Arcade, a nine-
building, 330,000-square-foot complex in the heart 
of Dayton, Ohio, and $9 million in the Montclare 
Senior Apartments community in Chicago, which 
includes 101 affordable housing units  . As a lo ngtime 
supporter of the Ohio Capital Impact Corp  ., a 
subsidiary of the Ohio Capital Corporation for 
Housing , the CDC also provided funding to send 
more than 800 children to summer camp and provide backpacks to help prepare school-age 
children in Columbus, Ohio, for the school year.
Logan Towers, an initiative of Talbert House , one 
of the largest social services organizations in 
Cincinnati, received $8  .8 mill ion from the CDC in 
2019  . The project will renovate a historic building 
in Cincinnati’s Over-the-Rhine neighborhood to create 63 redesigned apartments, 33 of which will be 
permanent supportive housing units through Talbert 
House  . The rest will be affordable rental units  . All t he 
units have affordability at 30-, 50- and 60% of area 
The Fifth Third CDC invested $8.8 million in Logan Towers to 
restore an historic building and provide supportive housing.
median income  . The y also have accessibility features 
to allow people with disabilities to live independently  . 
The Dayton YWCA  in Ohio also received CDC 
funds to assist with the redevelopment and 
reconfiguration of 65 apartment units  . The 
renovated building will also house a domestic 
violence shelter and space where support services—
including mental health and chemical dependency counseling, vocational programs, money 
management services, a food pantry, transportation 
assistance, emergency client assistance and a 
computer lab—will be available  .
David Thompson, vice president for housing of 
Model Group , the development construction 
management firm for the Logan Towers and 
Dayton YWCA projects, said, “Bringing important 
community development and affordable housing 
projects like the Dayton YWCA or Logan Towers 
to fruition requires lots of financing and lots of 
partners  . Having Fifth Third’s CDC as a trusted 
and knowledgeable financing partner gives us 
confidence that we can get these types of complex 
projects done in a way that will benefit the 
communities they serve.”
Since 1989, the Fifth Third Community Development Corporation 
has funded over 900 projects that focus on affordable housing, 
commercial, retail, office and historic buildings.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 76FEATURE
Collaborations for Community Benefit: 
Northwest Activities Center
“Oftentimes collaborations between 
public companies and nonprofits can 
work to the benefit of all involved,” said 
Byna Elliott, a Detroit native and chief 
enterprise responsibility officer at Fifth 
Third Bank  . “Oth er times, real friendships 
form and a rhythm of service develops that 
become ingrained in the community  . Tha t’s 
how I’d describe Fifth Third’s relationship 
with Northwest Activities Center  .”
Northwest Activities Center (NWAC) is a 
community staple in Detroit—and so is Fifth Third 
Bank  . The two have worked together for years and 
the relationship has yielded lasting, sustainable 
results for individuals and families in the Motor City  . 
Fifth Third has provided $1.5 million in capital 
and operating investments to NWAC, including 
helping the organization secure a $95,000 loan 
through the U.S. Small Business Administration’s 
Paycheck Protection Program so it could retain 
nine employees during the COVID-19 pandemic  . 
Fifth Third has a banking center located in NWAC; 
it serves over 250,000 visitors annually  . NWA C 
houses the first Operation Hope Inside Financial 
Empowerment Center in Michigan where we offer 
one-on-one financial counseling and financial 
workshops for credit and money management and 
small business. There’s also an Ideation Computer 
Lab that averages 50 visitors per week for adult 
and youth computer classes and summer programs  . 
Through these and other programs, NWAC serves 
the low- and moderate-income population  .
Madison Abrams is a 16-year-old Operation Hope 
graduate and a small business owner of Aesthetic 
Beads & Essentials  . She w as part of a 12-week 
entrepreneurial class and showcased her business at 
Fifth Third’s 2019 Strengthening Our Communities 
Fund celebration  . Ano ther graduate of Operation 
Hope, Toni Cannon-Mitchell, founder of the 
Association for the Advancement of Deaf/Hard 
of Hearing, recently won the Detroit SOUP Pitch 
Competition held at NWAC  . With h er winning grant, 
Ms . Cannon Mitchell will provide transportation, 
lodging and possible scholarships to support the 
deaf youth of their organization  . At Op eration Hope, 
Fifth Third  and Operation Hope team up to mentor 
business owners to help them reach the next level  .
NWAC also hosts Homeownership Day for 
Detroit Land Bank Authority’s Buy Back Program 
(DLBA) to help revitalize the City of Detroit. The 
DLBA estimates that it owns more than 3,400 
occupied properties that have been foreclosed 
upon or have renters whose landlords walked 
away  . The DLBA allows occupants to purchase the 
properties for $1,000 and enter into an agreement 
to pay at least $100 per month for a year to cover 
the summer property tax bill  . Fif th Third holds 
the individual accounts for the monthly deposit 
account  . The p artnership has converted over 500 
occupants into homeowners  .
Additionally, numerous Show Me the Money days, 
Financial Empowerment days and Volunteer Income 
Tax Assistance events are held at the center to provide 
Detroit residents the tools and resources that enable 
them to work toward or achieve financial well-being  .  Young entrepreneur Madison Abrams.  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 77FINANCIAL EDUCATION
Future success is often dependent upon the 
opportunities and advantages individuals have when 
they are young . That’s why we developed a suite 
of Fifth Third L.I.F.E. programs that offer financial 
education beginning as young as the first grade. 
Our Fifth Third L .I .F .E . (Lives Improved through 
Financial Empowerment®) programs are offered at 
no charge and are designed to educate people in 
the ways of personal finance at every age and stage 
of life . Since 2004, Fifth Third has helped educate 
2.5 million people. 
The Fifth Third Bank Young Bankers Club® (YBC)  
is our signature program developed in 2004 
for fifth-graders . Over the past 15 years, more 
than 28,000 students have graduated from YBC . 
Most were taught by Fifth Third volunteers who vi
sited elementary school classrooms to teach the 
difference between needs and wants, money basics 
and to underscore the importance of their education  . 
In 2019, the program underwent an update and will 
transition into a newer, more dynamic program in 
2021 that will be more relevant to today’s students 
and better establish a strong financial foundation for 
the future  . 
The Fifth Third Foundation has also supported 
$martPath , developed with the University of 
Cincinnati Economics Center, for students from first 
grade through eighth grade  . Sin ce 2017, 430,200 
students in Ohio, Florida and Michigan were 
educated through $martPath, an award-winning 
digital platform that uses animated characters and 
stories to impart critical thinking, math, economics 
and personal finance skills  .   
490,000
visitors to the Fifth Third 
Financial Empowerment 
eBus since 2004461,000
students educated 
through Young Bankers 
Club and $mart Path 
since 2004**1,439,000
high school students 
educated in financial 
literacy† since 2010123,000
adults educated through 
Empower U since 2012
Over 2.5 million people educated*  
through Fifth Third Bank’s L  .I .F .E . prog rams
*at mid-year 2020.
**30,000 students educated through Young Bankers Club since 2004 and 430,000 students in grade 1-8 educated through $martPath in 2017-2020.†360,000 students educated since 2017 via Fiance Academy, a Fifth Third Bank partnership with EverFi. One million students educated via the Ramsey’s Foundations in Personal Finance 2010-2017.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 78Fifth Third Finance Academy  offers two courses: 
foundational finance and entrepreneurship, to 
high school students throughout the Bank’s 
footprint states  . The p rogram is focused on high-
need students and schools, with over half of the 
students coming from underserved communities  . 
In the 2018-19 school year, over 163,000 students 
completed more than 400,000 hours of learning 
through more than 2,200 Finance Academy 
courses. To date, more than 453,000 students have 
taken Finance Academy courses and completed 
over 1  .1 million hours of learning  . 
In the program’s second year, we reported a 73% 
learning gain in financial education and a 93% 
learning gain in entrepreneurship  . In 20 19, we also 
offered Finance Academy to students at Florida 
A&M University, a public HBCU in Tallahassee  . We 
also provide $70,000 in scholarships each academic 
year to help students meet their education and 
career goals  . At th e end of the 2019-2020 academic 
year, this totaled $210,000 in scholarship awards  . 
In the Fifth Third Finance 
Academy program’s second 
year, we reported a 73% 
learning gain in financial 
education and a 93% learning 
gain in entrepreneurship.
When schools were closed due to the lockdowns 
brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, Fifth Third 
worked to make all of its Finance Academy courses 
available for free to students throughout our 
Consumer Bank footprint —regardless of whether or 
not they were previously Finance Academy schools  . 
This ensured that financial education could continue 
during the pandemic  . Add itionally, courses designed 
for adult learners, typically offered on our eBus, 
were made available to the public at no cost, as 
was the NextJob Job Seeker’s Toolkit, job training 
services typically available only for Fifth Third 
customers  . Our financial education course for adults is called 
Fifth Third Empower U®  . These courses are taught 
by our bankers on-site at various companies with 
our community partners  . They include a financial 
checkup, as well as classes that teach financial 
health, investments and planning, insurance planning, homeownership and college savings.  We 
have reached 123,000 people through the program 
since 2012  .     
Retiring well is about more than accumulating 
assets  . It’s about living the life consumers want and 
getting the most from the years ahead  . Providing 
a holistic approach to retirement planning, 
Retirement University  is a free educational 
program to help consumers prepare for all aspects 
of retirement—from income needs to second 
careers.  Lessons include planning and investments, 
retirement income, health care needs and life-stage 
planning  . Fif th Third financial professionals also are 
available to answer attendees’ questions  . 
Retirement University is a  
free educational program  
to help consumers prepare for  
all aspects of retirement  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 79FEATURE
In their Own Words: Fifth Third Finance Academy 
Students Focus on the Future 
Fifth Third Finance Academy students across the country participated in an essay 
contest for a $2,500 scholarship from Fifth Third Bank for their college education 
in 2019  . Fifth Third is proud to present these excerpts from winning essays and 
congratulates all the winners  .  
“I have always imagined myself a doctor . I was constantly in the ER due to my 
mother’s health issues when I was a little girl . After watching doctors work to save 
my mother’s life time after time, I grew to have high regard for doctors . I will be the 
first person in my family to go to college and have a career and it would make my 
mom proud . Finance Academy taught me how to budget money, how far a dollar really goes and how my money must be spent in order to live and support myself .”
-TEANNA DENISE HODGES , INDIANA
“I dream of becoming a successful African American entrepreneur  . I have n ever 
seen myself as the type of person to be working for anyone else  . I have a lways had 
a dream to travel and experience the world, but in the environment I grew up, that 
has always been viewed as impossible by the people and patterns that surround 
me . I have always lived in a state of poverty  . My par ents have no money saved up 
for the education of my siblings or myself, so when I was exposed to the Finance 
Academy, I began to realize that the financial tactics explained to me would be 
necessary to get into college and achieve the goals I have set  .”
-CIERRA BRADSHAW , NORTH CAROLINA
“My goal is to get my bachelor’s degree in nursing so I can start my dream career in 
nurse-midwifery  . Afte r this, I can start working on my next goal to visit developing 
countries to help women and babies who don’t have access to the right resources 
or the right treatment  . Usin g what I learned from Fifth Third and the Finance 
Academy, I now know how to keep up with my personal spending and budgeting, 
so I won’t overspend and be in debt  . I want t o become an entrepreneur and own a 
small clinic that specializes in pregnant women and overall women’s health  .”
-TE’ANYA MCKINSTRY , OHIO
“I want to be my own boss and develop a successful business  . Fina nce Academy 
has helped me to understand the actual concept of money  . I didn ’t really 
understand the basics of business  . I didn ’t know what a variable or a fixed expense 
was, couldn’t completely distinguish the difference between a want and a need, 
and wasn’t a very good decision maker  . In spit e of that, Finance Academy has 
taken away that ignorance and replaced it with knowledge  . This p rogram has 
forced me to think like a Frederick Wallace and a Bill Gates and has instilled in me 
the qualities and characteristics of not only a potential business leader but also an 
all-around leader in America  .”
-ISAIAH ROBERSON , TENNESSEE
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 80ECONOMIC INCLUSION SERVICES AND  
BANKING DESERTS 
It is our job to ensure that we have the right 
products and services that expand access in 
underserved communities.  This is especially true 
when addressing the banking deserts created 
in the wake of the Great Recession of 2007 and 
2008 . In 2016, the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York on their Liberty Street Economics blog 
defined a banking desert as a “census tract—a 
relatively homogeneous area or neighborhood 
containing about 4,000 people—with no banking 
centers within 10 miles of the center of the tract .” 
Our Decision Sciences team researched banking 
deserts in our footprint .
Research has shown the negative impact a banking 
desert can have on a community . Professor Nguyen 
of UC Berkley demonstrated that, when a bank 
consolidates, access to information is severed, 
resulting in a decrease in small business lending 
for a period of six years . Mortgage lending also 
decreases for a time . 
The Decision Sciences team refined the Federal 
Reserve’s definition of banking deserts so we could 
best determine how to address them, including 
looking at blockgroups instead of full census 
tracts, distance requirements and total population 
thresholds .  The result was a more precise look at 
banking deserts within our footprint, representing 
5.9 million people  compared to the old definition, 
which had a result of just 237,000 . Our analysis 
also showed a nearly even split of urban and rural areas . With this intelligence, our Consumer Bank, 
Community Development and Sustainability Group 
and market leaders could develop strategies on how 
we can best serve communities .  
We work to reach consumers in these desert areas 
through our Financial Empowerment Mobile (FEM) 
strategy , which we’ve employed since 2004 . The 
strategy focuses on offering an alternative retail 
delivery format that supports accessibility to 
financial services in underserved communities and 
to provide products that these communities need . 
Since 2004, Fifth Third has served over 480,000 
visitors in underserved communities . Banking Deserts in Fifth Third 
Footprint
Fifth Third works to reach consumers in 
the banking deserts within our footprint 
through our Financial Empowerment 
Mobile , or eBus  .
 Fifth Third-identified banking desert
 Fifth Third footprint
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 81Since 2004, the eBus has made over 3,000 tour stops and Banking To 
Go has been present at 64 events since its debut in 2019.
Over time, we’ve partnered with entities like Freddie 
Mac on mortgage services as part of FEM  . In 2019, 
we expanded our FEM strategy to include our new 
Fifth Third Banking To Go pop-up that launched at 
the annual NAACP conference in Detroit. Banking 
to Go is a new mobile kiosk that provides access 
to banking services to respond to the needs of 
underserved community members by meeting them 
where they are  .  
For several years, Fifth Third has used its Financial Empowerment Mobile, or eBus, to serve as a mobile 
financial classroom  . Bot h the eBus and the new 
Banking to Go kiosk are equipped with computers 
and Wi-Fi to serve our communities with banking 
services and products  . Commun ity members are 
greeted by Fifth Third employees and community 
partner representatives when they arrive and are 
consulted to see how we can help  . The y are assisted 
with financial education, obtaining their credit 
report, opening a bank account, homebuyer 
and small business resources, and job search assistance. Also, they are often introduced to Fifth 
Third’s online banking and mobile app  .   
Yolanda Parker, pastor of the Open Door Church in 
Cleveland, said the church has enjoyed partnering 
with Fifth Third and L  .I .N .K .S . Com munity and Family Services to bring banking solutions to 
the community  . “We j ust marked our third year 
partnering with the Fifth Third eBus  . Las t year, we 
helped to serve more than 500 residents  . Mos t don’t 
have transportation, so bringing the Bank to them 
makes a huge difference  .” 
In 2019, the eBus served 24,232 individuals with 
financial education, products and services at more 
than 220 events  . Sin ce 2004, the eBus has made 
over 3,000 tour stops and Banking To Go has been 
present at 64 events since its debut in 2019  . Nearly 
100,000 people have received credit counseling 
via the FEM strategy and 6,801 accounts have 
been opened since 2004, many to previously 
unbanked or underbanked people  . Fift h Third 
employees logged 4,746 volunteer hours in 2019 
and approximately 82,000 volunteer hours over the 
past 15 years  . 
We continue to partner with nonprofit and 
community organizations, municipalities, financial counseling agencies and other banking partners 
to identify communities where the eBus and the 
Banking to Go mobile kiosk can help meet banking 
accessibility needs  . The B ank also partners with 
organizations such as the Urban League to provide 
banking services to communities they serve  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 82INCLUSIVE PRODUCTS
Financial products available at Fifth Third are 
designed be inclusive so that we can best serve all 
community members . Fifth Third Express Banking 
is one example; it gives customers who are not 
typically eligible for a checking account the 
convenience and security of a banking relationship 
and immediate access to their funds via 55,000 fee-
free ATMs . There are no monthly service charges, 
balance requirements or overdraft fees .  
Credit, when used responsibly, can make a positive 
difference in people’s lives . It can help enhance a 
consumer’s credit report and increase the chances 
of acquiring a future loan, including a mortgage to 
achieve homeownership . The Fifth Third Secured 
Card * is a credit card designed to help customers 
build or rebuild their credit.  It is a secured card, 
meaning it is secured by the customer placing a 
$300 refundable deposit into a new Fifth Third 
Relationship Savings Account . This deposit funds 
the account and is used to determine the borrower’s 
credit limit to help prevent spending beyond the 
customer’s means .
Fifth Third Express Banking gives 
customers who are not typically 
eligible for a checking account 
the convenience and security 
of a banking relationship and 
immediate access to their funds.Workforce Development
A strong workforce is the key to healthy, sustainable 
communities  . Since 2012, we have worked with 
Next Job, a national reemployment company, to 
provide personalized job coaching and training to 
out-of-work individuals or those who are looking to 
advance their careers. We have also offered the Job 
Seeker’s Toolkit , a series of online training modules, 
at no cost to Fifth Third customers—a service that 
we opened and extended to all people during 
the COVID-19 pandemic  . Nex t Job coaches often 
accompany our bankers to events in the community 
to provide personal job training, including events like 
the 2019 NAACP convention in Detroit where they 
are an integral part of services offered through our 
eBus and new Banking to Go system  . 
Our collaboration with NextJob enables us to have 
a real, lasting impact on a person’s life, and by 
extension, supports the sustainability of healthy 
economic environments in the communities we serve  . 
SUCCESS STORIES:
• Amina  received triage coaching from Next Job 
at the 2019 NAACP National Convention and later underwent personalized job coaching, a relationship that was key to helping her find happiness in her new role as a junior project 
manager at a major advertising firm  . Ami na got 
interview help and vital assistance during her first 
several weeks on the job  .
• NextJob coaches also joined our bankers at the 
Florida Blue Career Fair  . Cherise , an attendee, 
spoke with a Fifth Third banker, and upon the 
banker’s advice, with NextJob coach, Irma  . 
Cherise was looking for advice on how to 
approach the tables at the fair  . Irm a coached 
her and advised her to go straight to a booth, introduce herself and tell the employer what 
she can do for them  . Che rise was excited to 
implement what she had learned  . Aft er the fair, 
she began weekly one-on-one coaching sessions 
with NextJob  .
• Dionne  received a scholarship at the 2019 Urban 
League National Convention & Career Fair  . She 
had been employed at a company for 17 years 
but was ready for change  . Nex tJob worked 
with her on her resume and helped her identify 
opportunities  . Her h ard work paid off, and she 
began a new chapter as a financial advisor  . 
*Full terms and conditions for all of Fifth Third Bank’s products are published online at 53.com. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 83Corporate Citizenship 
& Philanthropy
SOCIAL
We want to be the best corporate citizen 
we can be.
It goes without saying that Fifth Third is an integral part of the 
communities we serve not just for the access and financial products 
and services we provide, but because our employees live, work, 
worship and play in the same cities, towns and neighborhoods that our 
customers do  .
VOLUNTEERISM
Nothing shows how much we care about our 
community more than the willingness of our 
hard-working team members to donate their time 
to the causes they care about. They become our 
hands and feet, and, in many cases, help maximize 
the financial resources we deploy into communities 
in the form of grants, donations and sponsorships . 
Our employees are asked voluntarily to report their 
community service annually in a system called Fifth 
Third Serves . In 2019, our employees logged 147,293 
hours of community service, which is the equivalent 
of $3,745,668 .  
Fifth Third Bank is committed to supporting its 
employees and communities through volunteerism . 
To build upon this goal and in response to COVID-19, 
we implemented a new virtual volunteer program 
in June 2020  . The program enables employees 
to search and sign-up for volunteer opportunities 
using their computers, the internet, even their 
smartphones . Volunteers can complete short- or 
long-term tasks, in whole or in part, typically off-site 
Indianapolis employees ham it up at a volunteer event during United Way’s Day of Caring in 2019.
Employees logged 147,293 
hours of community service in 
2019, equivalent to $3,745,668.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Repor t: The Value of Sustainability 84from the organization or the person being assisted . 
When the world shifted to virtual work due to the 
pandemic, we sought ways to continue to reach out 
and offer the assistance in the community that we 
always have . 
CITIZENSHIP
Citizenship requires more than simple residence 
in a place; it requires engagement, action and 
commitment. We exercise our citizenship in 
communities by being active members of them . We 
engage in regular Community Conversations within our footprint to ensure we have a pulse on what 
is happening in each one . Our employees serve 
on various boards—from major nonprofits to local 
school and church committees . As a Company, it is 
our job to support our employees’ commitments 
to these organizations by allowing flexible 
work schedules and accommodations when 
necessary so they can perform these essential 
duties  . We do not view these commitments as 
separate from their roles, but as integral parts of 
our Bank’s commitment to good citizenship . Our 
Human Capital policies, including our military leave 
guidelines, also support this effort .   
United Way
In 2019, our employees and the Fifth Third 
Foundation combined to raise over $7 million for United Way  agencies throughout our footprint. 
Our team members also engaged in United Way 
activities—from walks to support health and 
Employees enjoy the 2019 United Way carnival at our Madisonville campus.wellness to volunteer work at local non-profit 
organizations to serve community needs .
Fifth Third was recognized in the top 25  United Way campaigns at No . 3 in Cincinnati,  
our headquarters city, in 2019 . Among the reasons is our United Way carnival on the grounds of our 
Madisonville campus . The carnival was attended 
by 1,000 employees in 2019 and continues to be 
an excellent event for employee engagement and 
giving back to the community .
Disaster Relief
When disaster strikes, Fifth Third is committed 
to responding strongly and swiftly . When the 
COVID-19 pandemic hit in March 2020, we funded 
$8.75 million in grants to support relief, recovery 
and resiliency efforts  across the country . We 
provided immediate impact grants to organizations 
like food banks in many of our markets, and launched major initiatives designed to provide 
support for adversely-affected small businesses and 
displaced workers .  
Our Fifth Third Foundation also responded 
immediately when communities in our footprint 
were affected by weather and other devastating 
events . In 2019, the Foundation contributed 
$100,000 to relief efforts after tornadoes in 
Dayton, Ohio, and Indianapolis. After a tragic 
shooting in the Oregon District in Dayton in May, 
the Fifth Third Foundation donated $50,000 to 
the Dayton Foundation’s Dayton Oregon District 
Tragedy Fund . 
In 2019, we also established The Fifth Third Cares 
Fund to benefit Bank employees across the footprint . 
The Fifth Third Cares Fund provides short-term, 
emergency support to employees or eligible 
dependents who are facing serious financial 
hardship as a result of certain unforeseen and 
unpreventable circumstances, including natural 
disasters, and who cannot afford housing, utilities 
and other basic living expenses . The Fund also allows 
Company employees the opportunity to participate 
in this effort by contributing to the Fund in support 
of colleagues who may experience such a hardship . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Repor t: The Value of Sustainability 85FEATURE
Feeding the Hungry
For more than 25 years, Fifth Third has set aside May 3, 5/3 on the calendar or Fifth Third 
Day, as a time to acknowledge the contributions of our employees, thank our customers and 
give back to our communities  . For s everal years, we’ve celebrated through month-long events 
and efforts to feed our communities  .  
According to Feeding America , 40 million 
Americans—including 12 million children—live 
in households lacking the means to get enough 
nutritious food on a regular basis  . As a re sult, they 
struggle with hunger at some point during the year  . 
Food-insecure families exist in every county in 
America—and it only worsened as unemployment 
rose during the pandemic  .
We provided nearly 3 million meals in 2019 to 
fight hunger through our Fifth Third Day activities,  
including fundraising efforts, Bank donations 
and volunteerism across our footprint  . We so ld 
recognition “shields” to acknowledge employee 
contributions and donated proceeds to organizations 
fighting hunger  . We pa rticipated in food drives—we 
donated, collected and prepared food and packaged 
it for shipment to families in need  . Our r egional 
banks also made financial donations of varying 
sums to local organizations dedicated to supporting 
families in need  . The e ffort reflected 4,109 volunteer 
hours by 1,470 employee volunteers  .
In 2020, our in-person Fifth Third Day events were 
affected by the pandemic, but our commitment 
remained  . We provided 2.2 million meals through 
Bank donations to food organizations across our 
10-state footprint and beyond. We also highlighted
an o
pportunity for employees to step up to help 
feed our community members through the Step 
Up for Hunger step challenge through Go365  . If 
employees worked together to log 53 million steps 
between May 8-31, the Bank would donate an 
additional $53,000 to Feeding America, an amount 
that would provide 530,000 meals  . Ove r 3,500 
employees signed up for the challenge and ensured 
the Bank’s donation—taking more than 548,948,234 
steps for hunger  . Als o, employees donated over 
$10,000 worth of Go365 bucks to Feeding America, 
providing an additional 100,500 meals  . 
Fifth Third Day activities in Central Ohio, Georgia and Florida. (clockwise from top)
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 86In 2020, the Fifth Third Foundation made a 
$200,000 grant to the American Red Cross after 
devastating tornadoes ripped through central and 
western Tennessee, as well as a $10,000 grant 
to the United Way of Midland County to support 
relief efforts for those affected by the floods that 
devastated Midland, Michigan . Fifth Third Bank also 
made a $2,000 donation to that effort .  
PHILANTHROPY 
Our Bank has a long history of philanthropic giving . 
The Fifth Third Foundation, founded over 70 years 
ago, was among the first corporate philanthropic 
foundations established by a financial institution . 
Today, Fifth Third’s philanthropy is a combination 
of foundations, corporate giving and sponsorships .  
In 2019, total philanthropy at Fifth Third was  
$17.8 million.  
The Fifth Third Foundation supports communities 
served by Fifth Third Bank in the areas of health 
and human services, community development, 
arts and culture and education . The Fifth Third 
Chicagoland Foundation is the successor to the MB 
Charitable Foundation . Fifth Third Bancorp acquired 
MB Financial, Inc . in May 2019 . The foundation 
serves the philanthropic needs of Chicagoland in 
the areas of housing and economic development, 
education, health and human services, and civic and 
community outreach .   
Combined, the efforts of the Foundation Office 
at Fifth Third Bank as well as corporate donations 
and sponsorships enable us to respond to many 
community needs, including food and feeding 
programs, health and wellness, revitalization and 
stabilization, and services to the underserved . 
Since 2017, more than 220 
non-profit organizations have 
benefitted from Fifth Third’s 
Strenghtening Our Communities 
Fund, part of our $32 billion 
Community Commitment.Strengthening Our Communities 
Fund
The Strengthening Our Communities (SOC) Fund is 
designated to support affordable housing, economic 
development and financial stability for individuals 
and families  . The SO C Fund was created under our 
$32 billion Community Commitment (2016-2020)  .  
It celebrated its third year of grants in 2019  . 
208,000
people helped
46,000
families received affordable 
housing services
16,500
individuals helped by financial 
stability programs
40,500
persons received economic 
development services
19,000
ommunity members assisted with c
low
- to moderate-income services
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 87The important work of our community and economic 
development team often includes major initiatives that enable us to hone in our key priorities.Community Initiatives
SOCIAL
These initiatives focus on small business lending, affordable housing, 
neighborhood stabilization, financial education, economic inclusion 
and workplace development  and are often subsets of other, larger 
initiatives that enable us to bring together all of our focus areas  . 
OPPORTUNITY ZONES
In early 2020, we announced an investment of 
$100 million in projects that support community 
development through four Opportunity Zone 
partners , including The National Equity Fund, an 
affiliate of Local Initiatives Support Corporation 
(LISC), Raymond James, the Decennial Group and 
Fallbrook Capital  .   
The funds will be used to develop projects in low-
income urban and rural communities across the 
Bank’s 10-state footprint  . This i nvestment represents 
one of the largest made by an institution with a social 
impact investment strategy in Opportunity Zones  .
Designed to spur long-term private sector 
investment toward economic development and job 
creation in economically distressed communities, opportunity zones were established as part of the 
2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act to promote investment 
and development in a significant number of 
qualified low-income census tracts  . 
Investment projects must satisfy the following  
Fifth Third social impact criteria:
• Located in a qualified Opportunity Zone.
• Public welfare investment eligible.
• Project will be developed by an experienced, 
credit-worthy sponsor.
• Located in a metropolitan statistical area where Fifth Third has determined community need 
under the Community Reinvestment Act  . 
• Expected to generate a positive economic return.
“Revitalizing communities through opportunity zone 
investments is a privilege for Fifth Third Bank. We are 
proud to use this innovative approach to ensure our 
capital serves communities that are most in need. ”
-KEVIN LAVENDER, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND HEAD OF COMMERCIAL BANKING
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 88FEATURE
Ne
ighborhood revitalization in Detroit’s G7.
Adopting Detroit’s G7 Neighborhood
The Gratiot/7 Mile region, known as G7, is 
Fifth Third’s adopted neighborhood of 
Detroit  . Fifth Third is investing $5 million 
into the community via Detroit’s Strategic 
Neighborhood Fund and Affordable 
Housing Leverage Fund.  
Fifth Third was one of five companies to announce 
such an investment in December 2018  . On Fi fth 
Third Day—May 3, 2019—we announced that our 
neighborhood would be G7  . The $ 5 million investment 
will help fund physical improvements to parks, 
streetscapes, commercial corridors, single family 
housing and affordable housing  . Fif th Third has met 
on several occasions with community leaders and 
residents to understand concerns and needs  .  
“I grew up going to my grandfather’s pharmacy at 
Devonshire and Mack Avenue, and my current office at 
Fifth Third faces Campus Martius,” said David Girodat, 
regional president of Fifth Third Bank in Eastern 
Michigan  . “I’ ve experienced not only what Detroit was, 
but what it has become—and I know the potential for 
what it can be  . To be supporting this neighborhood 
rejuvenation is inspirational, both personally and professionally, and it is certainly foundational to 
Fifth Third’s commitment to improving the well-
being of the communities it serves. ”
David Girodat, regional president of Fifth Third Bank in Eastern Michigan, 
interacts with a G7 community member.
Letty Azar, Detroit’s District 4 neighborhood manager, 
said, “This commitment from the corporations is five 
years . When the neighborhoods have seen corporate 
projects in the past they have been small and not 
sustainable . This is different .” It is different, Azar said, 
because Fifth Third and G7 have history with the 
Bank providing help during the mortgage crisis . “Fifth 
Third is not new here . They were here with the home 
mortgage program, and that’s what helped stabilize 
the neighborhood . They were lending when it was still 
scary, and that helped lay the foundation for what we 
will be able to do next .” 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 89Renderings of homes in Chicago’s Hope Manor Village.
As one of our first opportunity zone investments, the Fifth 
Third CDC will invest up to $11 million in Hope Manor, the new 
construction of 36 affordable housing units for veterans,  
the disabled and homeless in Chicago.
One of the first of Fifth Third’s investments is Hope 
Manor Village in Chicago  . The F ifth Third CDC will 
invest up to $11 million in Hope Manor, the new 
construction of 36 affordable housing units for 
veterans, the disabled and homeless in Chicago  . 
Unit affordability will be at or below 30, 50 and 
60% of area median income  . The p roject includes a 
community center, career center and computer lab 
for residents  . Volunteers of America of Illinois’s 
True North Program will provide high-level 
supportive services to residents with a goal to 
improve residents’ health, independence, self-
sufficiency, healthy relationships, positive life skills and long-term stability.  
The Fifth Third CDC is also investing up to $11.3 
million in Harrison Circle in Michigan under the 
Opportunity Zone commitment.  Harrison Circle 
is the new construction of 80 total units with 64 
units for veterans, the disabled and the homeless  . 
The development is in the Rivers Edge district in 
Kalamazoo and offers commercial and retail space 
on its ground floor  . The R ivers Edge district is 
undergoing a revival into a mix of businesses,  shops, restaurants and affordable apartments; it 
is f
ocused on growing into a community in which 
residents can live, work and play within walking 
distance of one’s community  .  
ENTREPRENEURSHIP & CDFI FUNDS
We made a major commitment of $11.1 million to 
small business lending through our Community 
Commitment.  Included in that was a promise to 
provide technical and other vital assistance to 
entrepreneurs as they look to start, grow and expand  . 
We were initial investors in the Entrepreneurs of 
Color (EOC) Funds in both Chicago and Detroit  . 
In 2018, we invested $2  .5 mill ion in the EOC Fund 
in Chicago  . As of M arch 2020, over $2 million in 
capital had been deployed and 220 loans closed  . 
46% of the borrowers from the EOC Fund in 
Chicago were women-owned businesses.  The 
Fund now exceeds $9  .1 mill ion . ADDRESSES: 5922 S. GREEN, 5950 S.
GREEN, 5930 S. PEORIA, 5944 S. PEORIA,6102 S. PEORIAASK-5.1
5/13/20ADDRESSES: 5930 S. GREEN,
6050 S. GREEN, 5932 S.PEORIA, 5947 S. PEORIAASK-5.2
5/13/20ADDRESSES: 5956 S. PEORIA,
6100 S. PEORIA, 5958 S. GREENASK-5.3
5/13/20ADDRESS: 6033 S. GREEN ASK-5.4
5/13/20
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 90Among those helped is Shanetha Pollnitz, who 
started a home daycare 19 years ago in Chicago. 
Through strategy, grit and a loan through Accion, 
her business has grown.  She now owns Alpha 
Omega, a center caring for 36 children  . Poll nitz 
plans to open another center in the future, helping 
ensure that low-income families have access to 
strong child care  .
In Detroit, the EOC Fund  has grown to $9.2 million 
and has an average loan size of about $88,000 as 
of May 2020. Our investment in the fund helped 
to spur loans to companies like Power, Lighting 
& Technical Services, LLC  ., owned b y Angel Paris 
and her husband, Martin Paris  . Powe r, Lighting 
& Technical Services provides electrical design 
services in the city of Detroit  . Our in vestment in the 
EOC Fund in Detroit also was beneficial to an iconic 
men’s clothing store in Michigan, Hot Sam’s Detroit  . 
Owned by two legendary Detroiters, Tony Stovall 
and Cliff G  . Gree n, Hot’s Sams has been in business since 1921 . Funding from the EOC Fund helped Hot 
Sam’s weather the storm created by the COVID-19 
pandemic and will enable them to celebrate 100 
years in business in 2021 .  
Forty-six percent of the 
borrowers from the 
Entrepreneurs of Color Fund 
in Chicago were women-
owned businesses .
Fifth Third Executive Vice President Kala Gibson had the privilege of meeting with Shanetha Pollnitz, owner of Alpha Omega 
in Chicago. Pollnitz grew her business with help from the Entrepreneurs of Color Fund in Chicago. 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 91We have significantly invested in community development financial 
institutions to support our common goal to spark job growth and 
retention in hard-to-serve markets across the nation.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS
Community development financial institutions, 
or CDFIs, are private financial institutions that 
are 100% dedicated to delivering responsible, 
affordable lending  to help low-income, low-
wealth, and other disadvantaged people and 
communities join the economic mainstream  . By 
financing community businesses—including small 
businesses, microenterprises, nonprofit organizations, 
commercial real estate, and affordable housing—
CDFIs spark job growth and retention in hard-to-
serve markets across the nation  . We sha re a common 
goal with CDFIs and, as such, have significantly 
invested with CDFIs to help make an impact  .  
Fifth Third Bank’s Capital to Build Capacity 
(C2BC) program is a part of our $32 Billion 
Community Commitment.  We partnered with 
Community Reinvestment Fund, USA to create the C2BC program to improve and increase lending 
opportunities for small businesses as well as 
provide operational support for small business 
owners and small business resource providers  . The 
C2BC program is one way we focus on helping 
small business owners with annual revenue 
less than $1 million and businesses in low- and 
moderate- income census tracts in markets in the 
Bank’s footprint  .
Our work with CDFIs also is represented by Accion , 
a global nonprofit dedicated to creating a financially 
inclusive world  . We hav e worked with Accion 
for several years, providing over $1 million to the 
organization to support the lending and technical 
assistance it provides for underserved small 
business owners in Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Michigan 
and Ohio  . In 2019, we made 
a $130,000 
grant to Accion, 
which enabled it to disburse 206 loans totaling 
$3.6 million to underserved entrepreneurs in 
our target markets. In addition, Accion used our 
funds to provide over 1,100 small business owners 
with one-on-one financial education and business 
development opportunities  . We als o collaborated 
with Accion on outreach events to educate 
entrepreneurs about the right financing for their 
business, including a panel speaker opportunity at 
the Operation HOPE conference in Atlanta and at 
a Fifth Third Bank eBus event  . Fina lly, we worked 
with Accion to offer two education webinars that 
engaged more than 660 attendees  . 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 9293
ENVIRONMENTClimate Strategy
Operational Sustainability
Green Procurement
Risk Management
Accelerating the Transition to 
a Sustainable Future
Environmental Data
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Repor t: The Value of Sustainability Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 93CLIMATE STRATEGY
Fifth Third is committed to being an environmental leader in the financial services 
sector and to leading the transition to a sustainable future. 
Our commitment is rooted in our desire to build strong communities, to serve our 
customers well and to be the One Bank people most value and trust  . We ar e driven by 
our understanding that integrating sustainability into all aspects of our Company creates 
long-term sustainable value and strengthens the communities we serve  . 
To advance our commitment and achieve our vision, 
Fifth Third is focused on three strategies:
Operational 
Su
stainability
Reducing our direct 
environmental impact  .Ris
k Management
Understanding 
and managing the 
climate-related risks 
facing our company, 
including those related 
to physical risks and 
transition risks  .Accelerating the 
Transition to a 
Sustainable Future
Helping our customers 
and communities 
prepare for climate-
related risks and 
opportunities  .
Alignment with International Efforts
Our environmental sustainability efforts align with U  .N . Sus tainable Development Goals 7 (Affordable 
and Clean Energy) and 13 (Climate Action)  . The se efforts also help address the risks documented by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Special Report on Global Warming of 1  .5 °C (Oc tober 2018) 
and the Paris Agreement’s central aim to “strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by 
keeping a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to 
pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1  .5 degr ees Celsius  .”ENVIRONMENT
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 94Operational Sustainability
Fifth Third is working to reduce the direct 
environmental impact from our operations by setting bold goals, working to achieve them and reporting on our progress.
ENVIRONMENT
In June 2017, we set five bold sustainability goals to achieve by 2022 , 
including to reduce our energy use and location-based greenhouse gas 
emissions 25%, to reduce our water consumption and waste generation 
20%, and to purchase 100% renewable power  .
We are proud to have already achieved 
our greenhouse gas, water and renewable 
energy goals.
We also have taken significant steps to advance our 
efficiency and reduction goals  . We inv ested in LED 
lighting, HVAC upgrades and building controls  . We 
made improvements in space utilization and in the 
sustainability of our new construction, renovation 
and facility-related operations and maintenance 
practices  . We als o invested in smart irrigation 
systems to reduce landscaping-related water use  . 
As we renovate offices, we are introducing dual-
monitors, reducing the number of printers and 
providing centralized waste collection stations to reduce printing and make it easier to recycle paper 
and other materials  .
100% RENEWABLE POWER 
On Aug  . 29, 20 19, we achieved our 100% 
renewable power goal when Chairman, President 
& CEO Greg Carmichael presided over the grand 
opening of the Aulander Holloman Solar project  
in Aulander, North Carolina  . The gr and opening  
of this 80 MWac/120 MWdc solar project madeENERGY
16%
reduction  
toward  25%  
of goalGHG*
31%
ACHIEVED
WASTE
4%
reduction  
toward  20%  
of goalWATE
R
 22%
ACHIEVED
100 %
RENEWABLE POWER ACHIEVED*
*Location based. In 2019, we achieved our greenhouse gas and water use Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) goals, and, at the August 29, 2019 grand opening of the Aulander Holloman Solar Project, Fifth Third became the 
first Fortune 500 company to purchase 100% solar power on a forward-looking basis. Our 2019 KPIs were assured by a third party; see the Additional Disclosures  section of ir.53.com/esg .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 95GHG Accounting: Expanding Scope 1, 
2 and 3 Reporting
As part of our inaugural ESG report, Fifth Third is 
expanding its GHG emissions reporting  . Ther e are 
three types of corporate GHG emissions: 
• Scope 1 emissions  are “direct GHG emissions” 
from emissions sources owned or controlled by 
the company, including natural gas-fired heating 
and fuels used in corporate vehicles  . 
• Scope 2 emissions  are “indirect GHG emissions” 
from purchased or acquired electricity and 
similar sources  . 
There are two accounting methods for Scope 
2 emissions  . The lo cation-based method uses 
average emissions intensity for the electric power 
grids on which energy consumption occurs  . 
The market-based method allows companies 
to account for power they have contracted for, 
including through the purchase of unbundled 
renewable energy certificates (RECs) or through 
contractual agreements that lead to new 
renewable power plants and the bundled RECs 
they generate  . With th e Aulander Holloman Solar 
project now online, we are reporting our Scope 
2 emissions under both methods to illustrate the 
impact of our renewable energy commitment  . In 
2019, Fifth Third had a 39% reduction in Scope 1 + 2 location-based emissions and an 86% reduction 
in Scope 1 + 2 market-based emissions  . Fift h Third 
is also reporting our GHG reduction KPI which 
is part of our bold sustainability goals  . This K PI 
uses the location-based method, but is limited to 
properties for which Fifth Third receives a utility 
bill . In 2019, our GHG KPI had a 31% reduction 
compared to 2014  .*
• Scope 3 emissions  include 15 categories of other 
indirect GHG emissions, such as business travel, 
capital goods and investments (financed emissions)  .
Methodologies to quantify Scope 3 emissions 
are still in development, including for Category 
15: Investments which are relevant for financial 
institutions  . Fift h Third understands that Scope 
3 emissions, and financed emissions in particular, 
are important and are monitoring efforts to 
quantify and report these emissions  .
Chairman, President & CEO Greg Carmichael at the Aulander Holloman facility grand opening.
Fifth Third the first bank and first Fortune 500 
company to purchase 100% solar energy  .  
Built by solar developer SunEnergy1, the 
Aulander Holloman facility was developed as a 
result of the virtual power purchase agreement 
(PPA) we announced in March 2018. The PPA 
facilitated the construction of the solar field by guaranteeing that Fifth Third would purchase all of 
the electricity generated at a fixed price, thereby 
enabling SunEnergy1 to secure funding and begin 
construction  . The el ectricity generated by the facility 
is expected to be an amount equal to or more than 
the amount Fifth Third uses in one year and will be 
resold at market rates into the local electricity grid  . 
“Fifth Third is making history,” said Amy Davidsen, 
Executive Director – North America, The Climate 
Group, which runs the global RE100 initiative 
for influential companies committed to 100% 
renewable electricity  . “They w ere the first member 
company to contract for 100% solar power and 
are demonstrating that renewables make business 
sense  . By adding clean power to America’s 
electricity grid, they’re accelerating a cleaner future 
for us all—and leading the way for other companies 
to follow suit  .” 
*For more information on these metrics, see the Environmental Data Table on page 107 and the 
GHG Verification and Environmental KPI Assurance statements in the Additional Disclosures  
section of ir.53.com/esg . More information on GHG accounting can be found at ghgprotocol.org/ .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 96Fifth Third made history!
We’re proud to be the first Fortune 500 company to power up a single, solar project to achieve
 100 % 
renewable power
That’s about 202,000 megawatt hours  
of clean power per year.
THAT’S THE SAME AS:
powering
25,000
homesgrowing
2.3 million
seedlings for 10 years*switching to nearly
5.4 million
LED lightbulbs
eliminating
143,000 mt**  
of GHG emissionsavoiding
800 
railcars of coalreducing
30,000   
passenger vehicles
*The clean power is equivalent to the carbon that would be stored by growing 2.3 million seedlings for 10 years.         **metric tons
Source:  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.  Results generated July 31, 2019.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 97GREEN PROCUREMENT
In addition to pursuing our bold goals, Fifth Third looks for 
opportunities to drive sustainability into all aspects of our business.
GREEN CLEANING
In 2018, we tested a new environmentally friendly 
cleaning standard in our building operations  . This 
effort helped reduce the exposure of building 
occupants and maintenance personnel to chemical, 
biological and particulate contaminants that may 
adversely affect air quality, human health and the 
environment.  The standard seeks both to protect 
local communities from unnecessary environmental 
harm and to protect customers and employees in 
our buildings as well as the teams performing  
the cleaning  .
Fifth Third is leveraging the U  .S . Gre en Building 
Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) green cleaning recommendations 
in an effort to ensure that the majority of cleaning 
products meet national standards, including EPA 
Safer Choice, Eco Logo and Green Seal  . The se 
efforts also impact cleaning equipment, which is 
being changed to meet best practices on noise 
reduction, energy and water efficiency, and 
emissions  . The se standards save water and energy 
and contribute to corporate energy and water 
reduction goals  .
ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS 
AND MATERIALS
Continually increasing our use of environmentally 
sustainable products helps ensure we have a smaller 
environmental impact from the development and 
manufacturing of these products  . It al so improves 
occupant health and operational efficiencies associated with our buildings  . Gre ener product 
selections are incorporated into design standards 
for fabrics, furnishings and flooring  . Bui lding and 
renovation standards also establish energy and 
water efficiency requirements for building products, 
including wall insulation, windows, lighting, 
plumbing fixtures and mechanical equipment  . The se 
products must meet enhanced standards such 
as the U  .S . EPA ’s Energy Star® and WaterSense 
standards, specific efficiency ratings (SEER ratings) 
or other minimum criteria  . 
REDUCING EMBODIED CARBON IN CARPETING
We recently began evaluating the embodied carbon 
of specific products  . Embodie d carbon represents all 
the impacts related to the sourcing of raw materials, 
product manufacturing and transportation  . Our 
collaboration with Interface, a company that offers a 
suite of carbon-neutral flooring products, has been 
a key success of our efforts  . In 20 19, we purchased 
more than 23,000 square yards of Interface carbon 
neutral flooring  . The m ajority of these products are 
made from 100% recycled nylon, which makes use of 
a discarded material and avoids the need for virgin 
materials  . Accor ding to Interface, the combined 
impact of these purchases includes reducing 210 
metric tons of carbon dioxide from entering the 
atmosphere  . We con tinue to assess opportunities 
to reduce the embodied carbon of the products we 
choose so that our operations and buildings are as 
sustainable as possible  . ENVIRONMENT
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report:  The Value of Sustainability 98Risk Management
Risk management is an integral part of Fifth 
Third’s operations.
ENVIRONMENT
In 2017, we began to look more closely at how to mature Fifth Third’s 
integration of climate-related risks—including physical risks and 
transition risks—into our risk management framework  and how to 
increase our disclosure of these efforts  .
ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
In 2020, we published a new Environmental and 
Social Policy  that identifies sectors that pose 
heightened environmental and social risks  . The 
policy provides guidance on sectors or activities 
that are prohibited or that are subject to 
enhanced due diligence  and may require  
escalated review and approval  .
Environmental and social 
risk management focuses on 
portfolios potentially impacted 
by climate change and 
leverages Moody’s assessment 
of sectors facing elevated risk.PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS AND STRESS TESTING
Periodic portfolio analysis assesses certain 
environmental and social risks that can occur across 
multiple risk types, products and business units  . 
Credit risk concentration metrics and limits have 
been established for a wide variety of exposures, 
including the energy portfolio, to limit excessive 
risk-taking and to ensure appropriate portfolio 
diversification  . In addit ion, we leverage Moody’s 
risk ratings for sectors facing elevated climate-
related risk to track and report on our exposure. 
Further, we analyze the impacts of these sectors 
in stress scenarios to fully understand these 
potential risks in our portfolios. As risks change, 
we will adjust our approach as necessary through 
our formal governance process  . 
Credit concentration risks also are captured and 
analyzed using quantitative methods such as 
economic capital measurement and stress testing 
models  . The tests leverage multiple scenarios 
to understand the potential impacts of varied 
economic environments, including stress, by 
sector and within the portfolio. The impacts across 
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 99all risk types enable us to evaluate capital adequacy 
and other financial measures, such as net income, 
under severely adverse conditions  . The s tress tests 
may include operational risk scenario analysis to better understand the impact of environmental 
and social risks to our operations  . Tes t results are 
reviewed with senior management and overseen by 
our Board  . We con tinue to enhance our quantitative 
methods to incorporate additional variables to 
capture environmental and social risks  . 
Fifth Third has performed 
scenario analysis to assess the 
impact of the physical risks 
associated with climate change.
Increasing Transparency
In 2019, 
Fifth Third 
increased 
transparency 
by expanding 
our 
disclosures 
to the CDP 
(formerly 
the Carbon 
Disclosure 
Project) and 
publishing our first Climate-related 
Financial Disclosure Report based on the 
recommendations of the TCFD  .  
This report addresses Fifth Third’s 
governance, strategy, risk management, 
metrics and targets, and next steps  .
In recognition of this increased 
transparency, Fifth Third received a 
Leadership Band score of A- from 
the CDP in the 2019 Climate Change 
scoring cycle.ENVIRONMENT
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 100ENVIRONMENT
Accelerating the Transition 
to a Sustainable Future
Fifth Third recognizes that climate change and 
other sustainability challenges will affect our customers and communities.
Just as Fifth Third seeks to be an environmental leader, we want 
to help our customers and communities accelerate their own 
transition to a more sustainable future  .
We seek to provide our customers with products 
and services that will help them meet their 
evolving needs, and we hope to inspire and 
support our communities to drive sustainability 
forward locally, nationally and globally.
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE  
(LENDING AND CAPITAL MARKETS)
Fifth Third seeks to facilitate a cleaner environment 
and energy mix through direct investment, financing 
and advisory efforts  . In 2020, to accelerate these 
efforts, we set our first sustainable finance goal 
of $8 billion to be achieved by 2025. This goal 
includes lending and financing for renewable energy, which we define as solar, wind, geothermal, 
biomass, and hydropower  .  RENEWABLE ENERGY LENDING 
AND FINANCING PRACTICE
Fifth Third began financing renewable energy 
in 2012 when we financed the construction and operations of numerous solar projects in North 
Carolina  . The powe r produced from the systems 
were sold to Duke Energy and Dominion Power  . In 
2018, a national renewable energy finance center 
of excellence was established as a line of business 
and drastically expanded our sustainability practice  . 
In August 2019, the practice was further expanded 
by hiring a renewable energy investment banking 
team  . As of the first quarter of 2020, the Bank’s 
renewable energy finance practice had 25 full-time 
team members  .
In 2020, we set our first sustainable finance goal 
of $8 billion  to be achieved by 2025.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 101FEATURE
Fifth Third Finances 102.5 MW Solar Project in Georgia
Fifth Third financed a roughly $110 million construction-to-term facility for Nashville-based 
Silic
on Ranch Corporation for its SR Arlington II solar project in Early County, Georgia  . 
Construction 
began at the 
1,200-acre 
site located 
between Blakely 
nd Arlington in March 2019, and by November 
f that year, was loading power onto the Georgia 
ransmission grid . As a tribute to the history of 
arly County, Silicon Ranch renamed the facility to 
ancroft Station Solar Farm to honor the local area’s 
riginal name . 
nder a long-term power purchase agreement, To track the success of its platform, Silicon Ranch 
he power from Bancroft Station’s 350,000 solar works with market-leading third parties to track and  
odules—all of which were manufactured locally verify metrics via monitoring and accounting of 
n Georgia—is sold to Walton Electric Membership detailed stakeholder and environmental data over time .  
orporation to supply Facebook’s Newton Data 
“At Silicon Ranch, we believe in the power of enter with 100% renewable energy.  Over 675 
collaborative partnerships,” said Virginia Williams, ocal workers contributed 580,000 work hours to 
senior vice president of project finance at Silicon onstruct the facility .
Ranch . “We naturally seek to work with financial 
ilicon Ranch is the U .S . solar platform for Shell partners who share this value and are grateful for 
nd one of the country’s largest independent the strong relationship we have built with Fifth 
olar power producers . The Bancroft Station Solar Third . Their support of projects like Bancroft Station 
arm was its first new-build site to incorporate enable us to meet the goals of our customers and 
ts holistic Regenerative Energy™ platform . This bring significant capital investments to underserved 
ransformative approach to land management communities .”
nables Silicon Ranch’s projects to go beyond clean  
The Bancroft Station project was among the $4 .2 nergy production to restore biodiversity and soil  
billion in lending and capital raising services Fifth ealth, improve water quality and sequester 
Third has provided since 2012  . In 2020, we made tmospheric carbon and other greenhouse gases 
our first public sustainable finance goal of $8 billion, n the soil. All of this is accomplished while the 
to be achieved by 2025  . Fifth Third focuses its and hosting the solar arrays is kept in agricultural 
sustainable financing on renewable energy—solar, roduction thereby engaging local communities  
wind, geothermal, biomass and hydropower  . a
o
t
E
B
o
U
t
m
i
CC
l
c
S
a
s
F
i
t
ee
h
a
i
l
p
and revitalizing rural economies  . 
Today, more than 1,800 sheep, 10,000 chickens and 350 ducks graze under
the solar panels at Bancroft Station. Poultry flocks follow closely behind 
the sheep as they rotate through various paddocks, increasing the overall 
resiliency and biodiversity of the solar grassland ecosystems.  
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 102Fifth Third services include:
•Lending:  Providing direct financing to
companies and projects  . This cap ital is
provided by Fifth Third and is reported on
our balance sheet  .
•Facilitation of Capital Raising:  Helping
customers raise debt and equity financing
from other investors  .
•M&A advisory services:  Advising companies
on mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, as
well as debt and equity financing  .
These services complement each other and 
allow Fifth Third to meet the needs of this 
fast-growing and important sector  .
FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDED 
THROUGH 2019 ($, MILLIONS)
40 % 60 % Lending 
Commitments & 
Asset Finance: 
$2,540  
 Capital Raising 
(Debt & Equity):  
$1,720  
Total: $4,260*
M&A Advisory: $1,070
The current sustainable financing strategy and policy 
for l
ending excludes more speculative development 
financing such as construction projects prior to 
being “shovel ready” or without a power purchase 
agreement and projects with less certain offtaker 
contracts, including those that require taking 
merchant and/or wholesale energy price risk  .
$8 BILLION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE GOAL
In setting the goal to provide $8 billion in 
sustainable finance by 2025, we decided to 
limit the scope to renewable energy only, which 
we define as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass 
and hydropower. We also decided to limit the 
services included in this goal to lending and the facilitation of capital 
raising because these 
services contribute most 
directly to attracting 
new investments in 
renewable power  . Yet, 
because merger and 
acquisition advisory 
services are critically 
important, we also report on these services  .
Fifth Third has provided $4.2 billion in lending and 
capital raising services since 2012. These services 
have helped lead to the completion of more than 3  .5 
GW of renewable energy projects across 50+ clients  . 
In addition, we have provided $1 billion in merger 
and acquisition advisory services  . 
WEALTH & ASSET MANAGEMENT
Fifth Third’s Investment Management Group 
recognizes there is an increasing demand to 
invest in companies that promote and achieve 
sustainability, encourage and measure corporate 
responsibility, and lead through their positive 
impact on employees, clients and communities. 
Better known as ESG investing, we provide solutions 
for our clients that seek to invest in companies 
through an ESG lens  . As of Dec  . 31, 2019 , Fifth Third 
managed $1 billion in ESG assets  .
These are items that are not easily measured 
from traditional financial statement analysis  . ESG 
investing seeks to identify risks inherent in all 
businesses and invest in those companies who are 
best suited to handle those risks  . We belie ve in 
providing our clients with options to invest in ESG 
focused strategies across asset classes, countries, 
sectors and market cap  . We provi de both active and 
passive ESG investment strategies and continue to research and provide new and exciting options as 
the marketplace evolves  .
SUPPORTING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR 
COMMUNITIES
In our headquarters city of Cincinnati, Fifth Third 
supports the Green Umbrella regional sustainability 
alliance through membership, conference 
sponsorship, volunteerism and board service  . In 
2019, Fifth Third sponsored the Midwest Regional 
Sustainability Summit featuring Andrew Winston, a $8B
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE 
GOAL ANNOUNCED
*The methodology used to prepare these figures is available in the Additional Disclosures section of https://ir.53.com/esg.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 103globally recognized corporate sustainability expert  . 
Fifth Third also is a founding member of the Greater 
Cincinnati Green Business Council and the Cincinnati 
2030 District  . 
We also support our employees and community 
in their own sustainability journeys  . In 2019, we 
hosted employee-focused electronic waste take-
back events at our Madisonville and Grand Rapids 
campuses which collected more than 17,269 
pounds of obsolete electronics. These events kept 
these materials out of the landfill and ensured they 
were recycled  . In J une 2020, we hosted a city-wide 
compost bin sale to help citizens purchase the 
supplies needed to compost at home  . 
Fifth Third was proud to be the primary sponsor of 
Chicago’s “Bike the Drive” in both 2019 and 2020. 
This event encourages the community to use active 
transportation modes and serves as a fundraiser for the Active Transportation Alliance which works to 
advance these transportation modes year-round  . 
ENCOURAGING CORPORATE LEADERSHIP
In March 2018, Fifth Third became the first Fortune 
500 company to contract for 100% solar power  . In  
August 2019, we powered up the Aulander Holloman 
solar facility in North Carolina and became the first 
Fifth Third received the Renewable Energy Hero Award at the Midwest 
Regional Sustainability Summit in 2019. Photo credit: Together as One JB
bank to achieve 100% renewable power with a single, 
solar project  . Th ese accomplishments were made 
possible through innovation and collaboration across 
many of our teams  . Since our original announcement 
in March 2018, we have shared our sustainability 
experience at more than 10 events , including:
• Sustainable Brands Conference , Detroit, June 2019
• GreenBiz 2020 , Phoenix, February 3-4, 2020
• Climate Leadership Conference , Detroit,  
March 4-6, 2020
Our sustainability accomplishments were made possible through 
innovation and collaboration across many teams at Fifth Third— 
it’s now our responsibility to share our experience.
Fifth Third was the primary sponsor of Chicago’s Bike the Drive event in 2019 and 2020.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 104FEATURE
Acting 
Locally & Globally
As a regional bank, many of our efforts 
are focused on the areas where we 
operate, but sustainability challenges, 
including climate change, are global. 
We must act locally and globally to 
address these problems. 
The Aulander Holloman Solar project is a 
great example of how Fifth Third can use 
its purchasing power to drive a long-term 
investment that will reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions benefitting the planet  . 
We also realize that our investments in 
energy efficiency, water efficiency and 
waste reduction have similar cumulative 
impacts that extend well beyond our regional 
footprint.  Further, we know that our suppliers 
also have an impact beyond our footprint  . Sustainability Beyond Our 
Borders: Building a Well for 
Families in Zambia 
In 2019, Fifth Third achieved one of its original five 
bold sustainability goals to reduce water usage by 
20% by 2022  . Wh at we didn’t expect was that this 
journey also would benefit a community 8,597  
miles away  .
In recent years, Fifth Third has installed 
Weathermatic’s smart irrigation system at more 
than 180 facilities across our footprint.  The system 
helps us manage and control landscaping water use, 
giving us the ability to view and control irrigation 
schedules remotely  . It a lso monitors real-time 
weather conditions, including temperature, humidity, 
and rainfall  . As co nditions change, the smart 
controllers adjust the irrigation schedule to ensure 
only the needed amount of water is being used  . By 
being smarter and more conscious of our water use, 
we support communities and help protect water as 
an important local resource  .
The importance of water to a community is no more 
evident than at the Kalomubo Community School 
in Chirundu, Zambia, near the southern African 
country’s capital, Lusaka  .
A plaque hangs on the Kalomubo clean-water well honoring Weathermatic and Fifth Third Bank.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 105A new water pump delivers clean water to families in Kalomubo.
Once the site of a flowing, clean water well, 
Kalomubo was facing a water crisis because a water 
pump had fallen into disrepair  . Fo r 11 years, the 116 
residents of Kalomubo had to walk more than 6 miles 
for clean water  . In d esperation, many community 
members collected water from unsafe sources  . As a  
result, diarrhea, dysentery and respiratory problems—
all waterborne illnesses—routinely plagued the 
community  . Th e scarcity of water also compelled 
residents to forgo sanitation and hygiene, which 
aggravated the spread of sicknesses  . 
Today, clean water flows again in Kalomubo, thanks 
in part to Weathermatic and Fifth Third Bank  . Fo r 
every gallon of water a client saves, Weathermatic 
provides a gallon of clean drinking water to a 
community in need by drilling water wells  .
“A year’s worth of overwatering from an average 
commercial property is equivalent to the needed 
clean drinking water for 200 families in a developing country,” said Mike Mason, president and CEO of 
Weathermatic  . “T hrough our corporate program 
Save Water, Give Life, we’ve developed more than 63 clean-water wells worldwide, impacting more 
than 100,000 lives .”
As part of the program, Weathermatic donated a 
clean-water well in the Bank’s name to the families 
of Kalomubo.
“The story of Kalomubo illustrates that water 
management is a global issue that can affect the health of families and the vitality of communities” 
said Patrick Henry, property portfolio manager 
for our Elkcam banking center in Deltona, Florida, 
which uses Weathermatic . “We’re proud that our 
own efforts of water management have helped 
Kalomubo achieve theirs .”
Living Water International, a faith-based nonprofit 
organization, helped Kalomubo develop sanitation, 
hygiene and maintenance programs to ensure that the 
donation benefits the community for years to come . 
Our role in Kalomubo’s journey to clean water is 
proof that doing the right thing has consequences 
far beyond our borders . 
“The story of Kalomubo illustrates that water management is a global issue 
that can affect the health of families and the vitality of communities.”
PATRICK HENRY , PROPERTY PORTFOLIO MANAGER IN DELTONA, FLORIDA
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 106ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
The table below includes environmental data from 2017-2019  . Add itional information is available at ir  .53 .com/e sg/ .
Normalizing Metrics Unit 2019 2018 2017
Employee headcount FTE 19,869 17,437 18,125
Square Footage Square Feet 10,167,362 9,399,846 10,092,544
Greenhouse Gas Emissionsa,b
Scope 1 emissions MT CO2e 13,233 14,046 12,116
Scope 2 emissions (Location-based) MT CO2e 79,417 91,519 94,617
Scope 2 emissions (Market-based) MT CO2e 2,108 61,380 58,315
Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 (Location-based) MT CO2e 92,650 105,565 106,733
Reduction compared to 2014 baseline (Location-based) % 39 .4 30 .9 30 .1
Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 (Market-based) MT CO2e 15,341 75,426 70,431
Reduc tion compared to 2014 baseline (Market-based) % 85 .8 30  .6 35 .2
Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel MT CO2e 12,271 12,904 10,249
Renewable Powerd
RECs from Aulander Holloman Solar Project via Virtual 
Power Purchase AgreementMWh 84,840 0 0
RECs from other sources MWh 64,568 54,000 65,000
Energy Consumptiona
Electricity MWh 153,334 167,541 172,619
Natural gas MWh 59,619 66,900 59,129
Chilled Water MWh 98 175 306
Diesel MWh 233 1,648 215
Gasoline MWh 32 25 N/A
Jet Fuel MWh 5,303 5,130 4,864
Total Energy Use MWh 218,618 241,419 237,133
Water Consumptiona
Water Usage Kilo gallons 161,108 195,058  211,268
Wastea
Recycled/Composted Material Tons 1,894 1,723 N/A
Secure Shred Paper Recycling Tons 3,631 3,942 4,034
Municipal solid waste Tons 4,526 4,483 N/A
Diversion rate % 55 .0 55 .8 N/A
Sustainability Goalsa,c  
(Key Performance Indicators)
Energy consumption per square foot kBTU/SF 82 .0 84 .4 79 .4
Water consumption per square foot gallons/SF 23 .9 26 .2 27 .9
Landfill waste per FTE pound/FTE 493 .4 514 .2 N/A
Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHGs (Location-based) MT CO2e 73,087 75,397 74,473
Percent of power from renewable sourcesd% 97 .4 32 .2 37 .7
Other Metrics
CDP Climate Change Survey Score A- C C
LEED Certified Square Footage Square Feet 150,943 146,766 137,997
N/A = Not available.
a Consumption information from locations acquired as part of 2019 merger with MB Financial are not included in energy, water, and waste KPI calculations since there is not yet one full year of data.b Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions were independently verified.  Verification statements are available in the Additional Disclosures section of ir.53.com/esg/.c Energy and water consumption KPI calculations are relative to a 2014 baseline and are calculated for owned or ground-leased buildings where we receive a utility bill. GHG emissions are location-based using 
national average emissions factors for all locations where we receive a utility bill. Energy use and water use are calculated per square foot. Landfill waste is relative to a 2018 baseline and calculated per FTE using all locations where we have reported waste data. The 2019 KPIs were independently assured; the assurance statement is available in the Additional Disclosures section of ir.53.com/esg/.
d The Aulander Holloman Solar Project’s grand opening occurred on August 29, 2019, making Fifth Third the first Fortune 500 company to achieve 100% solar power on a forward-looking basis. For calendar year 2019, 
RECs were obtained from the Aulander Holloman project and the Miami Wind Energy Center in Texas.
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 107GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX
The Index includes GRI indicators that are relevant for our business  . Unles s otherwise noted, all data 
and descriptions apply to our entire Company and are as of the year ended December 31, 2019  . This 
report is intended to meet “Core” requirements of GRI Standards  . In some i nstances, we have also 
included non-core GRI General Disclosures in this Content Index where we met all or a portion of the 
requirements of the disclosure within the report or other externally published documents  .  
Topic-specific disclosures determined to be “non-material” and for which we do not provide 
significant content in this report have been omitted from this table  .
Certain information may not be disclosed within the index below if it is not considered material; privileged or 
confidential; could cause a competitive disadvantage to our business if publicly disseminated; or is not currently 
collected in a manner wholly correlative with the related GRI indicator.
Reporting status: Fully reporting Partially reporting Not reported
Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
GRI 102: General Disclosures (2016) 
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE102–1 Name of the 
organization
Fifth Third Bancorp
102–2 Activities, brands, products, and services Refer to pgs  . 12-15 o f the 2019 Annual Report  .
Refer to the “Economic” (pgs  . 16-28) 
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 Annual Report
2019 ESG Report
102–3 Location of 
headquarters38 Fountain Square Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45263
102–4 Location of operations Refer to the “Markets Served” (pg  . 22) sub-
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102–5 Ownership and legal form Refer to pg  . 17 of 201 9 the Annual Report  . 2019 Annual Report
102–6 Markets served Refer to pgs  . 1-16 of 2 019 the Annual Report  .
Refer to the “Markets Served” (pg  . 22) sub-
section of 2019 ESG Report  .2019 Annual Report
2019 ESG Report
102–7 Scale of the 
organizationRefer to pgs  . 12-16 o f 2019 the Annual Report  .
Refer to the “Economic” (pgs  . 16-28) 
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 Annual Report
2019 ESG Report
102–8 Information on 
employees and other workersRefer to the “Employees” (pgs  . 60-68) sub-
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 108Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
102–9 Supply chain Refer to the “Third-Party Management” 
(pg . 44) and “Supplier Diversity” (pg  .  57) 
sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report and 
the “Suppliers & Vendors” page on 53  .c om .2019 ESG Report 
53.com
102–10 Significant changes 
to the organization and its supply chainRefer to the overview of management’s 
discussion and analysis of financial 
condition and results of operations (pgs  .  
44-48) of the 2019 Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
102–11  Precautionary 
Principle or approachRefer to the Environmental and Social 
(E&S) Policy  .E&S Policy
102–12  External initiatives Refer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) and “Climate Strategy” (pg  .  94) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report 
102–13  Membership of 
associationsRefer to “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) and “Climate Strategy” (pg  .  94) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
STRATEGY & ANALYSIS
102–14  Statement from 
senior decision-makerRefer to the “A Message from the Chairman, 
President & CEO” (pgs  .  4-5) and “A 
Message from the Board of Directors” (pgs  .  
6-7) sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102–15  Key impacts, risks, 
and opportunitiesRefer to the “Letter to Shareholders from 
CEO Greg Carmichael” (pgs  .  1-11) and “Risk 
Factors” (pgs  .  27-37) sub-sections of the 
2019 Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
ETHICS & INTEGRITY102–16  Values, principles, 
standards, and norms of 
behaviorRefer to the “Business Ethics” (pgs  .  34-36) 
sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report and the Employee Code of Business Conduct & 
Ethics  .2019 ESG Report
Employee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
102–17  Mechanisms for 
advice and concerns about ethicsRefer to the “Business Ethics” (pgs  .  34-36) 
sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report and 
“Reporting Concerns” (pg  .  7) sub-section 
of the Employee Code of Business Conduct 
& Ethics  .2019 ESG Report
Employee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
GOVERNANCE
102-18  Governance Structure Refer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report, 
53 .c om (Corporate Governance page), and 
Investor Relations website (ESG page)  .2019 ESG Report
53.comInvestor Relations website
102-19  Delegating authority
Refer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report 
and Nominating and Corporate Governance 
(NCG) Committee charter  .2019 ESG ReportNCG Committee charter
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 109Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
102-20  Executive-level 
responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topicsThe Board of Directors is responsible for 
overseeing the corporate governance, strategy, and risks of Fifth Third, which include risks and opportunities relating to 
climate change  .  
The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has been appointed as the executive-level position with responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics  .  The 
CFO is a member on the ESG Committee and provides reports periodically to the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee and the Board of Directors  .
102-21  Consulting 
stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topicsRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) and “Climate Strategy” (pg  .  94) 
sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report and 
“Shareholder Engagement” (pg  . 3 5) of the 
2020 Proxy Statement  .2019 ESG Report 
2020 Proxy Statement
102-22  Composition of the 
highest governance body 
and its committeesRefer to the “Committees Composition” 
(pg . 23) sub-section of the 2020 Proxy 
Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
102-23  Chair of the highest 
governance bodyRefer to the “Committees Composition” 
(pg . 23) sub-section of the 2020 Proxy 
Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
102-24  Nominating and 
selecting the highest governance bodyRefer to the “Election of Directors” (pgs  .  
9-21) sub-section of the 2020 Proxy 
Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
102-25  Conflicts of interest Refer to the “Avoiding Conflicts of Interest” 
(pgs  .  30-43) section of the Employee Code 
of Business Conduct & Ethics  .Employee Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
102-26  Role of highest 
governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategyRefer to the Corporate Governance 
Guidelines and the “Joint Letter to 
Shareholders” in the 2020 Proxy Statement  .Corporate Governance Guidelines
2020 Proxy Statement
102-27  Collective knowledge 
of highest governance body Refer to the “Director Skills Matrix” (pg  .  20) 
of the 2020 Proxy Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
102-28  Evaluating the 
highest governance body’s 
performanceRefer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-29  Identifying and 
managing economic, environmental, and social impactsRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) and “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-sections of the 2019 ESG 
Report and NCG Committee charter  .2019 ESG Report
NCG Committee charter
102-30  Effectiveness of risk 
management processesRefer to the “Enterprise Risk Management” 
(pgs  .  38-43) sub-section of the 2019 ESG 
Report and Risk and Compliance Committee 
(RCC) charter  .2019 ESG ReportRCC charter
102-31  Review of economic, 
environmental, and social 
topicsRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report, 
NCG Committee charter, and RCC charter  .2019 ESG Report
NCG Committee charterRCC charter
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 110Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
102-32  Highest governance 
body’s role in sustainability 
reportingRefer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-33  Communicating 
critical concernsRefer to the NCG Committee, RCC, and 
Audit Committee charters  .NCG Committee charter
RCC charterAudit Committee charter
102-34  Nature and total 
number of critical concernsNot Disclosed  .
102-35  Remuneration policies Refer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report 
and the “Board of Directors Compensation” 
(pgs  .  37-39) and “Compensation Discussion 
and Analysis” (pgs  .  40-61) sub-sections of 
the 2020 Proxy Statement  .2019 ESG Report 2020 Proxy Statement
102-36  Process for 
determining remunerationRefer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report 
and “Board of Directors Compensation” 
(pgs  .  37-39) and “Compensation Discussion 
and Analysis” (pgs  .  40-61) sub-sections of 
the 2020 Proxy Statement  .2019 ESG Report 2020 Proxy Statement
102-37  Stakeholders’ 
involvement in remunerationRefer to the “Board of Directors 
Compensation” (pgs  . 3 7-40) and 
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis” 
(pgs  .  41-61) sub-sections of the 2020 Proxy 
Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
102-38  Annual total 
compensation ratioRefer to the “CEO Pay Ratio” (pgs  .  63-64) 
section of the 2020 Proxy Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
102-39  Percentage increase 
in annual total compensation 
ratioRefer to the “CEO Pay Ratio” section of the 
2020 Proxy Statement (pgs  .  63-64) and the 
2019 Proxy Statement (pgs  .  59-60)  .2020 Proxy Statement
2019 Proxy Statement
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40  List of stakeholder 
groupsRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report 
102-41  Collective bargaining 
agreementsNot Disclosed  .
102-42  Identifying and 
selecting stakeholdersRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-43  Approach to 
stakeholder engagementRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-44  Key topics and 
concerns raisedRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .  
The environmental, social, and governance 
topics included in the materiality assessment are discussed throughout the 
2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 111Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45  Entities included in 
the consolidated financial 
statementsRefer to the “Corporate & Economic 
Profile” (pgs  . 18-19) sub-section of the 2019 
ESG Report and the “Business Segment 
Review” (pgs  .  61-69) and Note 32 “Business 
Segments” (pgs  .  192-195) of the 2019 
Annual Report  .2019 ESG Report 
2019 Annual Report
102-46  Defining report 
content and topic BoundariesRefer to the “About this Report” (pg  .  8) and 
“Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  9-10) sub-
sections in the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-47  List of material topics Refer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section in the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-48  Restatements of 
information2019 is the first year the Bank produced 
an ESG report leveraging the GRI 
framework  . T herefore, no material financial 
restatements occurred  .
102-49  Changes in reporting 2019 is the first year the Bank produced an 
ESG report leveraging the GRI framework  .  
Therefore, there were no significant 
changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic 
Boundaries  .
102-50  Reporting period Refer to the “About this Report” (pg  .  8) 
sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
102-51  Date of most recent 
report2019 is the first report prepared  .
102-52  Reporting cycle The ESG Report is expected to be reported 
on an annual basis  .
102-53  Contact point for 
questions regarding the reportEmail Investor Relations at IR@53.com  .
102-54  Claims of reporting 
in accordance with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core 
option  .
102-55  GRI content index GRI Index included in the 2019 ESG Report 
(Section VI – pgs  .  108-122)  .2019 ESG Report
102-56  External assurance Fifth Third Bank did not seek external 
assurance for the contents of this report  .
GRI 201: Economic Performance (2016)
103–1 , Explanation of 
the material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) sub-section and the “Economic” (pgs  .  
16-28) section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 112Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
201-1  Direct economic value 
generated and distributedRefer to pgs  .  1-16 and 47-77 in 2019 Annual 
Report and the “Communities” sub-section 
(pgs  .  69-92) of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 Annual Report
2019 ESG Report
201-2  Financial implications 
and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeFifth Third Bancorp received a Leadership 
Band score of A- from the CDP in the 2019 
Climate Change scoring cycle  .  The Bank’s 
CDP questionnaire responses are available 
on our Investor Relations website  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
201-3  Defined benefit 
plan obligations and other retirement plansFifth Third Bancorp recognizes the 
overfunded and underfunded status of its Retirement and Benefit Plans as an asset and liability, respectively, in Note 23 “Retirement and Benefit Plans” to 
Consolidated Financial Statements (pgs  .  
166-169) of the 2019 Annual Report  .  
The Defined Benefit Pension Plan was frozen (participation and benefit accruals) 
in 1998  .  There is a trust fund that holds 
the assets that fund this plan  .  The plan’s 
liabilities (Projected Benefit Obligation under FASB Accounting Standards) as of December 31, 2019 were $176,492,153 versus the fair value of assets as of December 31, 2019 in the pension trust of 
$175,235,873  .
Assumptions used to value the plan’s liabilities: The Projected Benefit Obligation 
is based on a 3  .0 5% discount rate  .  The 
mortality assumption used was the Pri-2012 Male and Female tables for Employees and Non-Disabled Annuitants with MP-2019 
generational projection  .
Fifth Third Bank’s main ongoing retirement program is a 401(k) plan that will match up 
to 7%  .  80 percent of employees participate 
in this plan  .  Employees may contribute up 
to the maximum allowable by law and the Bank matches the employees’ contributions based on the following schedule:
Employee contribution / Employer contribution
1% of eligible pay / 1  .5 % of eligible pay
2% of eligible pay / 3% of eligible pay
3% of eligible pay / 4% of eligible pay4% of eligible pay / 5% of eligible pay 5% of eligible pay / 6% or eligible pay6% or more of eligible pay /  
7% of eligible pay2019 Annual Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 113Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
201-4  Financial assistance 
received from governmentApplicable income tax expense for 
all periods includes the benefit from 
tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, certain gains on sales of leveraged leases that are exempt from federal taxation and tax credits (and other 
related tax benefits)  .  
Refer to the “Applicable Income Taxes’ 
(pgs  .  59-60) sub-section of the 2019 
Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachAs a financial services company, there 
are numerous indirect economic impacts resulting from our business operations and the flow of money between Fifth Third and 
our customers and suppliers  .  For example, 
the positive economic impacts from our 
$11 .1 b illion in small business lending to 
strengthen our local communities by maintaining and developing the core of 
the local economies in which we operate  .  
More information and additional examples of positive indirect economic impacts associated with our business activities can 
be found on 53  .c om and in the referenced 
Source section  .
Refer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  . 
9-10), “ Economic” (pgs  .  16-28), “Supplier 
Diversity” (pgs  .  57-58), “Communities” (pgs  .  
69-92), “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) sections 
and sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report 
and the Supplier Code of Conduct  .2019 ESG Report
Supplier Code of Conduct
203-1  Infrastructure 
investments and services 
supportedRefer to the “Communities” (pgs  .  69-92) 
sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Refer to the “Empowering Customers” (pgs  .  
26-27) and “Communities” (pgs  .  69-92) 
sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
GRI 204: Procurement Practices (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachIn addition to pursuing our bold 
sustainability goals, Fifth Third looks for opportunities to drive sustainability into all 
aspects of our business  .  
Refer to the “Green Procurement” (pg  .  
98) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report 
and “Environmental Management and 
Sustainability” (pg  .  7) section of the 
Supplier Code of Conduct  .2019 ESG Report
Supplier Code of Conduct
204-1  Proportion of spending 
on local suppliersRefer to the “Supplier Diversity” (pgs  .  57-
58) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 114Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Business Ethics” (pgs  .  34-
36), “Supplier Diversity” (pgs  .  57-58), and 
“Corporate Governance” (pgs  . 30-33) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to the “Complying with Laws, 
Regulations and Policies” (pgs  .  22-29) 
section of the Employee Code of Business 
Conduct & Ethics  .
Refer to the “Business Ethics” (pg  .  3) 
section of the Supplier Code of conduct  .2019 ESG Report
Employee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
Supplier Code of Conduct
205-1  Operations assessed 
for risks related to corruptionRefer to the “Anti-Competitive Activities” 
(pgs  .  35) sub-section of 2019 ESG Report 
and the “Complying with Laws, Regulations 
and Policies” (pgs  .  22-29) section of the 
Employee Code of Business Conduct & 
Ethics  .2019 ESG Report Employee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
205-2  Communication 
and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Refer to the “Employee Code of Conduct” 
(pg . 34) sub-section of 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
205-3  Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions takenRefer to Note 20 “Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings” to Consolidated Financial 
Statements (pgs  .  160-161) in the 2019 
Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) and “Business Ethics” (Pages 34 -36) 
sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
206-1  Legal actions for 
anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practicesRefer to Note 20 “Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings” to Consolidated Financial 
Statements (pgs  .  160-161) of the 2019 
Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 115Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
GRI 302: Energy (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the Environmental and Social 
(E&S) Policy  .
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C4 .2) ( C4  .2 a) (C4  .2 b) (C4  .3 b) (C7  .9 a) (C8)  .  E&S Policy
2019 ESG ReportCDP - Climate Change 
Questionnaire Responses
302-1  Energy consumption 
within the organizationRefer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section and “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C4 .2) ( C4  .2 a) (C4  .2 b) (C4  .3 b) (C7  .9 a) (C8)  .  2019 ESG Report
CDP - Climate Change 
Questionnaire Responses
302-2  Energy consumption 
outside of the organizationNot Disclosed  .
302-3  Energy intensity Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section and “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C6 .1 0)  .  2019 ESG Report
CDP - Climate Change 
Questionnaire Responses
302-4  Reduction of energy 
consumptionRefer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section and “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C4 .2 ) (C4  .2 b) (C4  .3 b) (C7  .9 a) .2019 ESG Report
CDP - Climate Change 
Questionnaire Responses
302-5  Reductions in energy 
requirements of products and servicesNot Disclosed  .
GRI 303: Water & Effluents (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the E&S Policy  .
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section of 2019 ESG Report  .E&S Policy2019 ESG Report
303–1  Interactions with water 
as a shared resourceFifth Third tracks water purchased from 
local water utilities as tracked by utility 
water meters  .  
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section and “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 116Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
303–3  Water withdrawal Fifth Third tracks water purchased from 
local water utilities as tracked by utility 
water meters  .
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section and “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
GRI 305: Emissions (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the E&S Policy
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to our most recent CDP submission 
which is available on the Investor Relations 
website  .E&S Policy
2019 ESG ReportCDP - Climate Change 
Questionnaire Responses
305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissionsRefer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C5 .1 ) (C6  .1 ) .
Refer to the “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report 
305-2  Energy indirect (Scope 
2) GHG emissions Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C5 .1 ) (C6  .3 ) .
Refer to the “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report 
305-3  Other indirect (Scope 
3) GHG emissions Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see section 
(C6 .5 )  .
Refer to the “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report 
305-4  GHG emissions 
intensity Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C6 .1 0)  .
Refer to the “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report
305-5  Reduction of GHG 
emissions Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C4 .3 ) (C4  .3 a) (C4  .3 b) (C5  .1 ) (C7  .9 a) .  
Refer to the “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 117Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
GRI 306: Waste (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the E&S Policy
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .E&S Policy
2019 ESG Report
306-3  Waste generated Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section and “Environmental Data” (pg  .  107) 
table of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
306-4  Waste diverted from 
disposalRefer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section of 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the E&S Policy  .
Refer to the “Environment” (pgs  .  93-107) 
section of 2019 ESG Report  .E&S Policy2019 ESG Report
307-1  Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsAny material non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations would 
be reported in the 2019 Annual Report  .  2019 Annual Report
GRI 401: Employment (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Employee Engagement” (pg  .  
66), “Inclusion and Diversity” (pgs  .  49-56), 
and “Development” (pgs  .  64-66) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report and the 
“Careers” page on 53  .c om .Careers.53.com2019 ESG Report 
401-1  New employee hires 
and employee turnoverTotal number of new employees in 2019 was 
4,463  .
Internal % Hires: 2,363 internal hires, 34  .3 % 
of all hiresAverage number of open requisitions: 1,291 
open requisitions
Total hires for the year: 6,860 employees
Employee turnover is 17  .5 % (top quartile)
Refer to the “Employees” (pgs  .  60-68) 
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 118Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
401-2  Benefits provided to 
full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employeesU .S . is the definition used for significant 
operations  .  The benefits are available 
to all full-time and part-time (20+hours) except long-term disability and adoption reimbursement benefits are for full-time 
employees only  .  
Refer to the “Compensation & Benefits” 
(pgs  .  60-61) sub-section of the 2019 ESG 
Report  .  2019 ESG Report
401-3  Parental leave Refer to the “Leave” (pg  .  61) sub-section of 
the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
GRI 404: Training & Education (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Development” (pgs  .  64-66) 
sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report and the 
“Careers” page on 53  .c om .Careers.53.com2019 ESG Report
404-1  Average hours 
of training per year per 
employeeRefer to the “Development” (pgs  .  64-66) 
sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
404-2  Programs for 
upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programsRefer to the “Employees” (pg  .  60-68) 
sub-section of 2019 ESG Report for listing of programs to upgrade and development 
employee skills  . 
Employees are eligible for transition assistance when an organizational change 
results in termination of employment  .2019 ESG Report
404-3  Percentage of 
employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsRefer to the “Performance Management” 
(pg . 65) sub-section of the 2019 ESG 
Report  .2019 ESG Report
GRI 405: Diversity & Equal Opportunity (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Corporate Governance” (pgs  .  
30-33) and “Inclusion and Diversity” (pgs  .  
49-59) of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
405-1  Diversity of 
governance bodies and 
employeesRefer to the “Governance Highlights” 
(pg . 6) of 2020 Proxy Statement and the 
“Corporate Governance” section (pgs  . 30-
33) and “Employee Demographics” table 
(pg . 53) of the 2019 ESG Report  .2020 Proxy Statement
2019 ESG Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 119Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
405-2  Ratio of basic salary 
and remuneration of women 
to menRefer to the “Compensation Philosophy” 
sub-section (pg  . 4 2) of the 2020 Proxy 
Statement  .2020 Proxy Statement
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to our Human Rights Statement, the 
“Human Rights” section in the E&S Policy 
and the “Human Rights” (pg  . 36) sub-
section of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Additionally, refer to the “Human Rights” 
(pg . 2 1) sub-section of the Employee Code 
of Conduct and the “Labor, Human Rights, 
and Social Responsibility” (pgs  . 5 -6) of the 
Supplier Code of Conduct  .Human Rights statement
E&S Policy2019 ESG ReportEmployee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
Supplier Code of Conduct
412-1  Operations that have 
been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsFor the 5th consecutive year, Fifth Third Bank was awarded a score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI), administered by the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation  .
Refer to the “Human Rights” (pg  . 36) and 
“Inclusion and Diversity” (pgs  . 49-59) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
412-2  Employee training 
on human rights policies or proceduresFor the 5th consecutive year, Fifth Third Bank was awarded a score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI), administered by the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation  .
Refer to the “Human Rights” (pg  . 36) and 
“Inclusion and Diversity” (pgs  . 49-59) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
412-3  Significant investment 
agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningFor the 5th consecutive year, Fifth Third Bank was awarded a score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI), administered by the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation  .
Refer to the “Human Rights” (pg  . 36) and 
“Inclusion and Diversity” (pgs  . 49-59) sub-
sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
GRI 413: Local Communities (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Supplier Diversity” (pgs  . 
57-58), “Communities” (pgs  . 69-92) and 
“Environment” (pgs  . 93-107)  sections and 
sub-sections of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
413-1  Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsRefer to the “Communities” (pgs  . 69-92) 
sub-section of 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 120Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
413-2  Operations with 
significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on local communitiesAny significant actual or potential negative 
impacts of operations would be reported in 
the 2019 Annual Report  .  2019 Annual Report
GRI 415: Public Policy (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Public Policy and Government 
Relations” (pg  .  37) sub-section of the 2019 
ESG Report and the Governance Affairs 
Policy  .
Our Political Contributions Reports are 
available on the Investor Relations website  .2019 ESG Report
Government Affairs PolicyPolitical Contributions 
Reports
415-1 Political contributions
Our Political Contributions Reports are 
available on the Investor Relations website  .Political Contributions Reports
GRI 417: Marketing & Labeling (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Responsible Banking” (pgs  .  
23-25) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report 
and “Fair and Honest Business Practices” 
(pg . 17) of the Employee Code of Business 
Conduct & Ethics  .2019 ESG ReportEmployee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling
Refer to the “Responsible Banking” (pgs  .  
23-25) sub-section of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
417-2  Incidents of non-
compliance concerning product and service information and labelingNot Disclosed  .
417-3  Incidents of non-
compliance concerning marketing communicationsNot Disclosed  .
GRI 418: Customer Privacy (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Consumer Privacy and 
Information Security” (pgs  .  42-43) sub-
section of the 2019 ESG Report and 
“Protecting Fifth Third and Our Customers” 
(pgs  .  44-53) section of the Employee Code 
of Conduct  .2019 ESG ReportEmployee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
418–1  Substantiated 
complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Any material cybersecurity incidents would 
be reported in the 2019 Annual Report  .  2019 Annual Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 121Indicator Reporting Status Response Source(s)
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance (2016)
103–1  Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
Boundary
103–2  The management 
approach and its 
components
103–3  Evaluation of the 
management approachRefer to the “Our Approach to ESG” (pgs  .  
9-10) and “Enterprise Risk Management” 
(pg . 38-41) sub-sections of the 2019 ESG 
Report  .2019 ESG Report
419-1  Non-compliance with 
laws and regulations in the 
social and economic areaRefer to the Legal Risks disclosures (pg  .  34) 
of 2019 Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 122SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
BOARD (SASB) INDEX
The index below includes SASB standards for the Financial Sector that are relevant for our business: 
Commercial Banks; Consumer Finance; and Mortgage Finance  . Un less otherwise noted, all data and 
descriptions apply to our entire firm and are as of or for the year ended December 31, 2019  . For 
additional information about the firm’s financial performance, please refer to the firm’s quarterly 
earnings materials as well as quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, respectively  .
Certain information may not be disclosed within the index below if is not considered material; privileged or confidential; 
could cause a competitive disadvantage to our business if publicly disseminated; or is not currently collected in a 
manner wholly correlative with the related SASB metric.
Reporting status: Fully reporting Partially reporting Not reported
SASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
Commercial Banks (2018)
DATA SECURITYFN-CB-230a.1
(1) Number of data breaches, 
(2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders affected Any material cybersecurity incidents would 
be reported in the 2019 Annual Report  .2019 Annual Report
FN-CB-230a.2
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data security risksRefer to the “Consumer Privacy and 
Information Security” sub-section (pgs  . 42-
43) of the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
FINANCIAL INCLUSION & CAPACITY BUILDING
FN-CB-240a.1
(1) Number and (2) amount 
of loans outstanding qualified to programs designed to promote small business and community development(1) 288 loans
(2) ~$75  .8 mi llion
FN-CB-240a.2
(1) Number and (2) amount 
of past due and nonaccrual loans qualified to programs designed to promote small business and community development(1) 88 loans
(2) ~$63 million
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 123SASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
FN-CB-240a.3
Number of no-cost retail 
checking accounts provided to previously unbanked or underbanked customers~96 thousand accounts
Note: Underbanked defined as $0 - $10 thousand balance
FN-CB-240a.4
Number of participants in 
financial literacy initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customers~115 thousand participants
Note: Includes youth, adult, and small business financial literacy initiatives.
INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS IN CREDIT ANALYSIS
FN-CB-410a.1 
Commercial and industrial 
credit exposure, by industryRefer to Table 37: Commercial Loan and 
Lease Portfolio (excluding loans and leases 
held for sale) (page 81) of the 2019 Annual Report for disclosure of our commercial loans and leases by industry classification (as defined by the North American Industry 
Classification Systems)  . 2019 Annual Report
FN-CB-410a.2 
Description of approach 
to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in credit analysisRefer to the “Environmental and Social Risk 
Management” section of the Environmental 
& Social (E&S) policy  .  
Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire response available on Investor Relations website; see sections 
(C2 .2) ( C2  .2 a) (C-FS2  .2 b) (C-FS2  .2 c) (C2  .3 ) 
(C2 .3 a) (C3  .1 ) (C3  .1 a) (C3  .1 b) (C3  .1 f) (C-
FS3 .2) ( C-FS3  .2 a) .  E&S Policy
CDP - Climate Change 
Questionnaire Responses
BUSINESS ETHICS
FN-CB-510a.1
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with fraud, insider 
trading, anti-trust, anti-
competitive behavior, market 
manipulation, malpractice, 
or other related financial industry laws or regulationsRefer to Note 20 (pgs  .  160-161) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .2019 Annual Report
FN-CB-510a.2
Description of whistleblower 
policies and proceduresRefer to the “Business Ethics” sub-section 
(pgs  .  34-36) of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to the “Non-Retaliation” section 
(pg . 8) of the Employee Code of Business 
Conduct & Ethics  .
Refer to the Employee Non-Retaliation 
Policy  .2019 ESG Report
Employee Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics
Employee Non-Retaliation 
Policy
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 124CONTINUEDSASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
SYSTEMIC RISK MANAGEMENT
FN-CB-550a.1
Global Systemically 
Important Bank (G-SIB) score, by categoryAccording to the Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision’s assessment methodology, Fifth Third is not considered to be a Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) and, accordingly, does not have a 
G-SIB score  .
FN-CB-550a.2
Description of approach to 
incorporation of results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business activitiesRefer to 2018 Company-Run Stress Test 
Disclosure previously required under the 
Dodd-Frank Act  .
Additionally, refer to the following references of the 2019 Annual Report:
• Capital Planning and Stress Testing (pg  . 24)
• Credit Risk Management (pg  . 79 )
• Capital Planning (pg  . 10 2)2018 Company-Run Stress Test Disclosure
2019 Annual Report
ACTIVITY METRICS
FN-CB-000.A 
(1) Number and (2) value 
of checking and savings accounts by segment: (a) personal and (b) small business(a) Personal
(1)  ~2  .5 mil lion checking accounts; ~541 
thousand NOW accounts; ~2  .5 mil lion 
savings accounts
(2) $8  .1 billion in checking accounts; $15  .5 
billion in NOW accounts; $33  .1 bil lion in 
savings accounts
(b)  Small Business, relationships through 
financial center channel under $2 million in annual revenues:
(1)  ~277 thousand checking accounts; ~66 
thousand savings accounts
(2)  $5  .9 bil lion checking accounts; $1  .9 
billion savings accounts
FN-CB-000.B 
(1) Number and (2) value 
of loans by segment: (a) personal, (b) small business, and (c) corporate(a) Personal
(1) Not disclosed
(2) Refer to Note 6 (pgs  . 12 8-129) of the 
2019 Annual Report for disclosure of loans 
and leases  .
(b) Small Business
(1) ~7 thousand loans(2) $336 million
(c) Corporate
(1) Not disclosed
(2) Refer to Note 6 (pgs  . 12 8-129) of the 
2019 Annual Report for disclosure of loans 
and leases  .2019 Annual Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 125SASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
Consumer Finance (2018)
CUSTOMER PRIVACYFN-CF-220a.1
Number of account holders 
whose information is used for secondary purposesWe use our customer data for the 
secondary purposes of modeling data to improve our product and service offerings, evaluate the overall strength of our customer relationships and to predict 
customer behavior  .  We do not sel l our 
customer data to third parties  .
FN-CF-220a.2
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with customer privacyRefer to Note 20 (pgs  . 160-161 ) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material legal proceedings2 20 01 19 9 An  Ann nu ua al l R  Re epo por rt t
DATA SECURITY
FN-CF-230a.1
(1) Number of data breaches, 
(2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders affectedAny material cybersecurity incidents would 
be reported in the 2019 Annual Report  .  2 20 01 19 9 An  Ann nu ua al l R  Re epo por rt t
F
N-CF-230a.2
Card-related fraud losses from (1) card-not present fraud and (2) card-present and other fraudRefer to Note 20 (pgs  . 160-161 ) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .2019 Annual Report
FN-CF-230a.3
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data security risksRefer to the “Customer Privacy and 
Information Security” sub-section (pgs  . 42-
43) of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to the “Operational Risk 
Management” section (pgs  . 99-100) o f the 
2019 Annual Report  .2019 ESG Report
2019 Annual Report
SELLING PRACTICES
FN-CF-270a.1
Percentage of total 
remuneration for covered employees that is variable and linked to the amount of products and services soldRefer to the “Responsible Banking” sub-
section (pgs  . 23-25) of t he 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
FN-CF-270a.2
Approval rate for (1) credit 
and (2) pre-paid products for applicants with FICO scores above and below 660(1) For our TRIO Credit Card, Truly Simple 
Credit Card or Secured Card products, the approval rate for applicants with FICO scores:
• >660 is 84  .7%
• <660 is 30  .5%
(2) Our Access 360o Reloadable Prepared 
Debit Card is not a credit product and therefore 
no credit bureau information is pulled  .SASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
Consumer Finance (2018)
CUSTOMER PRIVACYFN-CF-220a.1
Number of account holders 
whose information is used for secondary purposesWe use our customer data for the 
secondary purposes of modeling data to improve our product and service offerings, evaluate the overall strength of our customer relationships and to predict 
customer behavior  .  We do not sel l our 
customer data to third parties  .
FN-CF-220a.2
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with customer privacyRefer to Note 20 (pgs  . 160-161 ) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .
DATA
 SECURITY
FN-CF-230a.1
(1) Number of data breaches, 
(2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders affectedAny material cybersecurity incidents would 
be reported in the 2019 Annual Report  .  
F
N-CF-230a.2
Card-related fraud losses from (1) card-not present fraud and (2) card-present and other fraudRefer to Note 20 (pgs  . 160-161 ) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .2019 Annual Report
FN-CF-230a.3
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data security risksRefer to the “Consumer Privacy and 
Information Security” sub-section (pgs  . 42-
43) of the 2019 ESG Report  .
Refer to the “Operational Risk 
Management” section (pgs  . 99-100) o f the 
2019 Annual Report  .2019 ESG Report
2019 Annual Report
SELLING PRACTICES
FN-CF-270a.1
Percentage of total 
remuneration for covered employees that is variable and linked to the amount of products and services soldRefer to the “Responsible Banking” sub-
section (pgs  . 23-25) of the 2019 ESG 
Report  .2019 ESG Report
FN-CF-270a.2
Approval rate for (1) credit 
and (2) pre-paid products for applicants with FICO scores above and below 660(1) For our TRIO Credit Card, Truly Simple 
Credit Card or Secured Card products, the approval rate for applicants with FICO scores:
• >660 is 84  .7%
• <660 is 30  .5%
(2) Our Access 360o Reloadable Prepared 
Debit Card is not a credit product and therefore 
no credit bureau information is pulled  .
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 126CONTINUEDSASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
FN-CF-270a.3
(1) Average fees from add-on 
products, (2) average APR, (3) average age of accounts, (4) average number of trade lines, and (5) average annual fees for pre-paid products, for customers with FICO scores above and below 660Not disclosed
FN-CF-270a.4 
(1) Number of complaints 
filed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), (2) percentage with monetary or nonmonetary relief, (3) percentage disputed by consumer, (4) percentage that resulted in investigation by the CFPB(1) 666 complaints filed with the CFPB
(2) 11% monetary relief; 15% non-monetary relief
(3) 11% disputed by the consumer(4) None resulted in investigation by the 
CFPB
FN-CF-270a.5
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with selling and servicing of productsRefer to Note 20 (pgs  . 160 -161) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .2019 Annual Report
ACTIVITY METRICS
FN-CF-000.A
Number of unique consumers 
with an active (1) credit card account and (2) pre-paid debit card accountNot disclosed
FN-CF-000.B
Number of (1) credit card 
accounts and (2) pre-paid debit card accounts(1) ~1  .1 million customer accounts with an 
active TRIO Credit Card, Truly Simple Credit 
Card or Secured Card  .
(2) ~429 thousand customer accounts with an active Access 360
o Reloadable Prepared 
Debit Card  .
Mortgage Finance (2018)
LENDING PRACTICESFN-MF-270a.1 
(1) Number and (2) value 
of residential mortgages of the following types: (a) Hybrid or Option Adjustable-rate Mortgages (ARM), (b) Prepayment Penalty, (c) Higher Rate, (d) Total, by FICO scores above or below 660Not disclosed
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 127SASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
FN-MF-270a.2 
(1) Number and (2) 
value of (a) residential mortgage modifications, (b) foreclosures, and (c) short sales or deeds in lieu of foreclosure, by FICO scores above and below 660(a) Residential mortgage modifications
(1) 722 modifications
(2) $101 millionRefer to the “Troubled Debt Restructurings” 
sub-section (pgs  .  135-137) of the 2019 
Annual Report  .
(b) Foreclosures(1) Not disclosed(2) $212 millionRefer to the “Nonperforming Assets” sub-
section (pg  .  135) of the 2019 Annual Report  .
(c) Short sales or deeds in lieu of 
foreclosure
Not disclosed2019 Annual Report
FN-MF-270a.3
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with communications to customers or remuneration of loan originatorsRefer to Note 20 (pgs  .  160-161) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .2019 Annual Report
FN-MF-270a.4
Description of remuneration 
structure of loan originatorsFifth Third’s incentive programs for mortgage loan officers focus on payment 
for the origination of mortgage loans  .   
Payment is based on the amount of the loan and does not take into account pricing 
or profitability  .  A minimum commission 
amount was established in order to ensure borrowers with small loan amounts are still served and our loan officers are 
appropriately incented for their efforts  .
Refer to “Responsible Banking” sub-section 
(pgs  .  23-25) pf the 2019 ESG Report  .2019 ESG Report
DISCRIMINATORY LENDING
FN-MF-270b.1 
(1) Number, (2) value, 
and (3) weighted average Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio of mortgages issued to (a) minority and (b) all other borrowers, by FICO scores above and below 660Not disclosed
FN-MF-270b.2
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with discriminatory mortgage lendingRefer to Note 20 (pgs  .  160-161) of the 2019 
Annual Report for disclosure of material 
legal proceedings  .2019 Annual Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 128SASB Code/Metric Reporting Status Response Source(s)
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK TO MORTGAGED PROPERTIES
FN-MF-450a.1
(1) Number and (2) value of 
mortgage loans in 100-year 
flood zonesNot disclosed
FN-MF-450a.2
(1) Total expected loss and 
(2) Loss Given
Default (LGD) attributable to 
mortgage loan default and delinquency due to weather related natural catastrophes, by geographic regionNot disclosed
FN-MF-450a.3
Description of how 
climate change and other environmental risks are incorporated into mortgage origination and underwritingRefer to pgs  .  83-84 of the 2019 Annual 
Report for disclosure of risk management regarding the residential mortgage 
portfolio  .2019 Annual Report
ACTIVITY METRICS
FN-MF-000.A 
(1) Number and (2) value 
of mortgages originated by category: (a) residential and (b) commercial(a) Residential
(1) Not disclosed
(2) $11  .6 b illion
Refer to Noninterest Income section 
(pg . 56) of 2019 Annual Report for value 
of mortgages residential mortgages 
originated  .
(b) Commercial
Not disclosed2019 Annual Report
FN-MF-000.B 
(1) Number and (2) value of 
mortgages purchased by category: (a) residential and (b) commercial(a) Residential
(1) ~5 thousand
(2) $1,319 millionRefer to Table 24: Loans and Leases 
Acquired (pg  .  72) of 2019 Annual Report for 
value of residential mortgages purchased as 
a result of the MB Financial, Inc  .  acquisition 
on March 22, 2019  .
(b) Commercial(1) Not Disclosed(2) $3,586 millionRefer to Table 24: Loans and Leases 
Acquired (pg  .  72) of 2019 Annual Report for 
value of commercial mortgages purchased 
as a result of the MB Financial, Inc  .  
acquisition on March 22, 2019  .2019 Annual Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 129TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE (TCFD) INDEX
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) has developed a voluntary, 
consistent, climate-related financial risk disclosure framework for companies to provide 
information to stakeholders  .
Certain information may not be disclosed within the index below if is not considered material; privileged or confidential; 
could cause a competitive disadvantage to our business if publicly disseminated; or is not currently collected in a 
manner wholly correlative with the related TCFD disclosure.
Reporting status: Fully reporting Partially reporting Not reported
Disclosure Reporting Status Response Source(s)
GOVERNANCE: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities  .
a) Describe the board’s 
oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C1  .1) ( C1 .1a ) 
(C1 .1b) .
Refer to “Corporate Governance” (pgs  . 
30-33) sub-section of 2019 Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Report  .
Refer to “ESG Governance” section of 
Environmental and Social (E&S) Policy  .  
Refer to Nominating and Corporate Governance (NCG) and Risk and 
Compliance Committee (RCC) charters  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG ReportE&S PolicyNCG Committee charterRCC charter
b) Describe management’s 
role in assessing and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C1  .2) (C 1 .2a ) 
(C1 .3) (C1  .3a ) (C2  .2) (C 2 .2a ) (C-FS2  .2b ) 
(C-FS2  .2c) (C-FS2  .2f ) .
Refer to “Corporate Governance” (pgs  . 30-
33) sub-section of 2019 ESG Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report
STRATEGY: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning  .
a) Describe the 
climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and 
long term  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2)  .
Refer to “Risk Factors” (pgs  . 2 7-37) in 2019 
Annual Report  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 Annual Report
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 130Disclosure Reporting Status Response Source(s)
b) Describe the impact 
of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2  .3 ) (C2  .3 a) 
(C2 .4 ) (C2  .4 a) (C3  .1 d) (C3  .1 e) (C3  .1 f) .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenario  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate 
Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2  .2) 
(C-FS2  .2 b) (C-FS2  .2 c) (C2  .3 a) (C3  .1 a) 
(C3 .1 b) (C3  .1 d) (C3  .1 e) (C3  .1 f) (C-FS14  .1 ) 
(C-FS14  .1 a) (C-FS14  .1 b) (C-FS14  .3 ) .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
RISK MANAGEMENT: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks  .
a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2  .2) ( C2 .2 a) 
(C-FS2  .2 b) (C-FS2  .2 c) (C2  .3 ) (C2  .3 a) (C3  .1 a) 
(C3 .1 b) (C-FS14  .1 ) (C-FS14  .1 a) (C-FS14  .1 b) .
Refer to “Risk Factors” (pgs  .  27-37) in 2019 
Annual Report  .
Refer to “Environmental and Social Risk 
Management” section of the E&S Policy  .
Refer to “Risk Management” sub-section 
(pgs  .  99-100) in the “Environment” section 
(pgs  .  93-107) of the 2019 ESG Report  .  CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 Annual ReportE&S Policy2019 ESG Report
b) Describe the 
organization’s processes for managing climate-related 
risks  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2  .2) ( C2 .2 a) 
(C-FS2  .2 b) (C-FS2  .2 c) (C2  .3 ) (C2  .3 a) 
(C3 .1 a) (C3  .1 b) (C3  .1 d) (C3  .1 e) (C3  .1 f) (C-
FS3 .2) ( C-FS3  .2 a) (C-FS14  .1 ) (C-FS14  .1 a) 
(C-FS14  .1 b) (C-FS14  .3 ) .
Refer to “Risk Factors” (pgs  .  27-37) in 2019 
Annual Report  .
Refer to “Environmental and Social Risk 
Management” section of the E&S Policy  .
Refer to “Risk Management” sub-section 
(pgs  .  99-100) in the “Environment” section 
(pgs  .  93-107) of the 2019 ESG Report  .  CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 Annual ReportE&S Policy2019 ESG Report
c) Describe how processes 
for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk 
management  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C1  .1 a) 
(C1 .1 b) (C1  .2) ( C1 .2 a) (C2  .1 ) (C2  .2) ( C2 .2 a) 
(C-FS2  .2 b) (C-FS2  .2 c) (C2  .3 a) . (C -FS2  .2 c) 
(C2 .3 ) (C2  .3 a) (C3  .1 ) (C3  .1 a) (C3  .1 b) (C3  .1 d) 
(C3 .1 e) (C3  .1 f) (C-FS3  .2 ) (C-FS3  .2 a) (C-
FS14  . 1) (C-FS14  . 1a) (C-FS14  . 1b) .
Refer to “Environmental and Social Risk 
Management” section of the E&S Policy  .
Refer to “Risk Management” sub-section 
(pgs  .  99-100) in the “Environment” section 
(pgs  .  93-107) of the 2019 ESG Report  .  CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
E&S Policy2019 ESG Report
CONTINUED
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 131Disclosure Reporting Status Response Source(s)
METRICS AND TARGETS: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and 
opportunities  .
a) Disclose the metrics 
used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2  .3a) (C4) 
(C5) (C6) (C7) (C8) (C-FS14  .1) (C-FS 14 .1a) 
(C-FS14  .1b) .
Refer to the “Environment” section (pgs  . 
93-107) of the 2019 ESG Report  . 
Refer to independent GHG Verification and Environmental Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Assurance statements available on 
Investor Relations website  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report2019 GHG Verification 
Statement
2019 KPI Assurance 
Statement
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related 
risks  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C2  .3a) (C5) 
(C6 .1) (C6  .3) (C6  .5) (C6  .10) (C7)  .
Refer to “Environmental Data” table (pg  . 
107) of the 2019 ESG Report  . 
Refer to independent GHG Verification and Environmental Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Assurance statements available on 
Investor Relations website  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report2019 GHG Verification 
Statement
2019 KPI Assurance 
Statement
c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets  .Refer to our most current CDP - Climate Change questionnaire responses available 
on Investor Relations website (C4)  .
Refer to “Operational Sustainability” 
sub-section (pgs  . 95-98) of the 2019 ESG 
Report  . 
Refer to independent GHG Verification and Environmental Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Assurance statements available on 
Investor Relations website  .CDP - Climate Change Questionnaire Responses
2019 ESG Report2019 GHG Verification 
Statement
2019 KPI Assurance 
Statement
Fifth Third 2019 ESG Report: The Value of Sustainability 132Contact Fifth Third
INVESTOR RELATIONS
ir@53.com
ESG INFORMATION
ESG site
MEDIA RELATIONS
513-534-NEWS or Media Center
CUSTOMER SERVICE
1-866-671-5353
53.com