Corporate 
Social Responsibility
2017 Report3 A Message from Chairman, President & CEO Greg D. Carmichael 
4 Fifth Third Corporate & Economic Profile
 4  2017 By the Numbers
 5 Awards & Recognition 
6 The Fifth Third Compass 
7 A Message from Chief Administrative Officer Teresa Tanner 
8 Keep the Customer at the Center 
 9 Improving Lives of Consumers
 13 Building Better Businesses 
16 Build A Stronger Community 
 17 Community Reinvestment Act 
  Community Commitment Plan: Year Two 
 20 Financial Education & Empowerment 
 24 Community Development Capital Solutions 
 27 Employee Volunteerism
 28 Philanthropy 
30 Be Respectful & Inclusive
 31 Inclusion & Diversity
 32 Talent Diversity
 34 Engagement & Wellness 
 36 Supplier Diversity
38 Take Accountability: Caring for the Planet
 39 Five Bold Sustainability Goals 
 43 Environmental Risk Governance 
44 Contact Us
2   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportWhat’s Inside:A Message from our Chairman, President & CEO   3A Message from Chairman, President 
& CEO Greg D. Carmichael 
All of us at Fifth Third are 
committed to helping build 
stronger communities because 
everyone benefits. 
Whether you are a hard-working adult, a student 
with a bulging backpack, a small business owner 
examining your cash flows, or a bank seeking to 
be the one bank people most value and trust, 
it is better to be part of a strong community. 
This is why we give back and invest in all the 
communities we serve throughout our 10-state 
footprint and beyond. We do this by effecting 
positive change, empowering the underserved 
and engaging with our neighbors in the places 
where we live, work and contribute.
The 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  
Report is your guide to how we are working to build stronger communities. Last year, we received  
an “Outstanding” Community Reinvestment Rating (CRA) from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.  
It was an important marker along our journey to collaborate with community leaders, public entities  
and citizens to make a positive difference and leave a strong legacy of impact.   
In the following pages, you will read about the ways this collaboration created value. How our $30 billion 
Community Commitment enabled first-time homeownership, small business growth and community 
redevelopment. How a community stretched financial support into meaningful help for those who needed 
it most. How listening to the needs of customers, employees and communities sparked innovation, new 
products and new services. How Fifth Third was recognized for our commitment to inclusion and diversity. 
How we set bold goals to protect our planet because it’s the right thing to do—for our environment, for 
shareholders and for everything and everyone with whom we share this Earth. 
It’s important to know that these are not our stories, but yours. We are nothing without the people  
we serve.  Thank you for investing your time to learn about our efforts to be a socially responsible business, 
and for all the ways you help us along our journey to do corporate social responsibility a Fifth Third better. 
Sincerely, 
Greg D. Carmichael
Chairman, President & CEO, Fifth Third BancorpApril 2018
4   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR Report2017 By the Numbers
$142bin assets*
54kfee-free ATMs**
$362bin assets under care†
$37bin assets under management† Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services 
company head quartered in Cincinnati, Ohio.  
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had:
18,84 0
committed 
employees2.2m
households1,154
financial  
centers10
states
*Financial information as of 12/31/17. 
**Fifth Third Bank is part of the Allpoint®, Presto!, and 7-Eleven® network of ATMs, which features more than 50,000 fee-free ATMs nationwide. Customers of Fifth Third Bank can use their Fifth Third debit or 
prepaid card to withdraw cash fee-free from any domestic Allpoint® ATM in addition to Presto! ATMs located in Publix stores, and 7-Eleven® ATMs listed on our ATM locator on 53.com or on our Mobile Banking 
app. Fees will apply when using your credit card at any ATM to perform a cash advance or when using a credit card to withdraw cash at any Presto! ATM. ATM fees may apply to certain 7-Eleven® locations in 
Oklahoma, Hawaii, and Alaska. Any 7-Eleven® location listed on our ATM locator is fee-free.
†Assets under management and assets under care include trust and brokerage assets for individuals, corporations and not-for-profit organizations through Fifth Third’s Trust and Registered Investment Advisory 
businesses. Investor information and press releases can be viewed at 53.com. Fifth Third’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq® Global Select Market under the symbol “FITB.”
Fifth Third Bank was established in 1858. Member FDIC.  Equal Housing Lender. Fifth Third Bank is proud to have an engaged and inclusive culture and to promote and ensure equal employment opportunity 
in all employment decisions regardless of race, color, gender, national origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, military status, veteran status or any other legally protected status.serving in andFifth Third Corporate & Economic Profile   52017 Bancorp Awards & Recognition
Community & Environment:
• U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Leadership Club and Green Power Partner , 
Fifth Third Bancorp, February 2017. 
• American Bankers Association Honorable Mention, Fifth Third Foundation and University of 
Cincinnati Economics Center for the $martPath financial education curriculum, September 2017. 
• Platinum MarCom Award , Fifth Third Bancorp 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report,  
CSR Reports category, November 2017.  
Organization:
• Gold MarCom Award , Fifth Third Bancorp 2016 Annual Report, Annual Reports, November 2017.
• Javelin Strategy & Research Online Leader , Fifth Third Bancorp, for top score in customer service 
and money movement categories evaluating companies’ online platforms, October 2017. 
• Javelin Strategy & Research Account Safety Top Rankings , Fifth Third Bancorp, for earning 
highest ratings possible in its evaluation of Prevention & Detection practices on customer accounts, 
September 2017. Employee:
• 2018 Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index Perfect Score , Fifth Third 
Bancorp, for 100 percent national rankings for LGBTQ-related policies and practices, December 2017. 
• 2017 Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index , Fifth Third Bancorp, for ratings in demographic 
transparency, best diversity practices and inclusion practices in recruitment, retention and 
advancement, and company culture, October, 2017.
• 2017 Disability Matters “Employer of Choice Award,” Fifth Third Bancorp, for taking its Disability Matters award-winning initiatives: ProjectSEARCH, Stand Up To Cancer and business resource groups, to a level of synergy between mission and achievement, April, 2017. 
• 2017 Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce Ignite Action Award , Fifth Third Bancorp and Best Upon 
Request, for Maternity Concierge program for female employees who are pregnant or have a child under age one, October 2017. 
• American Banker’s 2017 Most Powerful Women in Banking, Teresa Tanner of Fifth Third Bancorp, for her support of programs that support and retain women in the workforce, October 2017.
• Bloomberg Gender Equality Index , Fifth Third Bancorp, as one of 104 companies in 24 countries 
who met a threshold score on Bloomberg’s survey based on underlying gender disclosures and adoption of best-in-class policies and practices for fiscal year 2016, January 2017. 6   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportThe Fifth Third Compass
Our Fifth Third Compass provides the strategic direction we 
need to serve our customers and accomplish our objectives through alignment and ownership.A Message from our Chief Administrative Officer   7A Message from  
Chief Administrative Officer 
Teresa Tanner 
A bank serves many 
constituencies; among them: 
customers, communities and employees. 
To one degree or another, these various audiences 
are “customers,” each with different needs and 
expectations. In every case, our goal is the same: 
Give them our all. 
This goal is captured by the words that are at the 
heart of our Compass. Keeping the customer at 
the center describes our commitment to improve 
the lives of our customers, our communities and 
our employees. This 2017 CSR Report describes 
that work.
We keep our commitment by collaborating, 
listening, sharing and learning. For example,  
our collaboration with the National Community Reinvestment Coalition member organizations resulted 
in forums that help us better understand—and better address—the needs of underserved communities. 
Listening sessions with millennials resulted in the Fifth Third Momentum™ app for an easy way to round up 
purchases to pay down student loan debt. Our responsibility to create an inclusive and diverse workplace resulted in our leader becoming an early signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion as well as full 
transparency in annually reporting our employment diversity. For the broader community, planet Earth, we 
work on an ongoing basis to reduce waste and energy usage and, last year, stepped up our responsibility by setting bold environmental goals.
Our commitment also plays out in the everyday volunteerism our employees provide through their generous 
donations of time, talent and treasure, in the innovative work of our diverse suppliers and in the impact made 
by the Fifth Third Foundation—the nation’s very first corporate foundation established by a financial institution. 
Putting ourselves in the shoes of the customer ensures our path is true. It creates a clear and well-
defined way forward. I hope you enjoy our customer’s stories of the difference we are making together. 
Sincerely, 
Teresa Tanner
Executive Vice President & Chief Administrative Officer,  
Fifth Third Bancorp
April 2018Keep the Customer at the Center
8   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportKeep the  
Customer  
at the Center
BY THE NUMBERS
$250k
loans paid by 
Momentum™ App1m
meals for the 
hungry$50.4 m
2017 supplier 
diversity  spend $156m
US Small Business 
Administration 
lendingWe strive to keep the customer at the center of  
everything we do. Improving their lives through 
our financial products and the customer 
experience we provide is both our corporate 
social responsibility and our passion.
Scenario B. Adebesin,  
Director of Corporate Social Responsibility
Keep the Customer at the Center   9Improving Lives of Consumers
The Hiciu family is “over the moon” at the help provided by the Fifth Third Momentum App to pay off student loans and were chosen for a $37,000 award to help pay down her debt.
We are committed to providing better financial 
solutions for all the people we serve. We strive  
to do that with every business decision and  
customer interaction. 
The goal is to develop products and services—like 
our down payment assistance program and new Fifth 
Third Momentum™ app—that genuinely make a positive 
difference in people’s lives.
One of those people is Nikki Hiciu. She finished 
graduate school with more than $75,000 in student 
loans. The 34-year old accountant paid off about 
$35,000 and was making $500 monthly payments 
when she began using the Fifth Third Momentum™ app. 
The app allows college graduates to pay off student 
loans faster by automating frequent micropayments 
toward the balance on student loan accounts. Nikki’s 
husband, Christian, used the app to pay toward her 
loan, too. Between the two of them, they paid about 
$50 extra per month using the Momentum app.
“The debt can feel overwhelming,” Nikki said, “but  
the Fifth Third Momentum app makes it easier to pay 
my loans off early.”
“College debt affects our communities and our 
economy,” said Greg Carmichael, chairman, president 
and CEO of Fifth Third Bancorp. “As a bank, we need 
to bring innovative solutions to the market, to lead the 
way in helping the next generation pay off their student 
loans. Fifth Third Momentum is a simple digital tool to 
help pay these debts faster.”
With the app, customers with a Fifth Third debit card 
can link student loans held by over thirty servicers to 
the app. Once connected, customers can round their 
debit card purchases up to the next dollar or add one 
dollar to every purchase. The extra amount is applied 
to the balance on the designated loan weekly once a 
minimum of five dollars in round ups is achieved. In 
the app’s first four months, customers paid an extra 
$250,000 toward their student loans.Keep the Customer at the Center
10  Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportFifth Third estimates that customers who round up $25 
a month using the Fifth Third Momentum app could 
pay off a 20-year loan three years sooner and pay 8 
percent less in total by avoiding interest that would 
have accumulated, based on a loan of about $37,000 
with 6.8 percent interest.
Fifth Third surprised Hiciu and thanked her for using 
the app by giving her $37,000, the average debt for 
a 2017 graduate. Hiciu was one of three Momentum app users who were randomly chosen to have up to 
$37,000 of their loans paid off.
With most of their remaining debt now paid, the  
couple will put the money that used to go toward 
Hiciu’s loans in a college savings account for their 
18-month-old daughter.Programs, Education and Responsiveness
Lives also are improved through specialized programs 
for financial education, and through workshops and 
strategic alliances that bring more financial education 
to more people. Whether providing information on 
home ownership, identity protection or saving and 
investing, or by providing personalized help like credit 
counseling and tax preparation, we go the extra mile to 
boost financial wellness. More about these programs, 
which we call our Fifth Third L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved 
through Financial Empowerment®) programs, begin on 
page 20.
Our executive leadership and employees also work 
within each community on boards and as volunteers to 
ensure that our investments are improving lives in the 
communities we serve and bettering neighborhoods as 
a whole.  
Finally, we always are honored to address immediate 
community needs. We responded to the devastating 
hurricanes and flooding that affected many in our 
footprint last year, and we again rallied to fight hunger 
in the U.S. by providing one million meals during the 
month of May. 
Responsible Banking
Keeping the customer at the center of everything we 
do is the central component of our commitment to 
responsible banking. It’s the commitment we make to 
consumers to deliver best-in-class financial products 
and services, and to provide access to those services 
whenever and wherever consumers want them. We 
are responsible for ensuring that our complete product and service suite is accessible to all consumers, in all 
markets, and that we’re offering the right types of responsive products and services.  
Our commitment is to act always in the best interest of 
consumers by providing reasonably priced products, 
defining clear terms and disclosures, and offering 
fair and consistent service. By doing so, we can 
build lasting customer relationships and meet our 
responsibility to help them prosper. In the Fifth Third Momentum 
app’s first four months, customers 
paid an extra $250,000  toward 
their student loans.Keep the Customer at the Center   11A Family’s Dream Made Possible by Fifth Third’s 
Down Payment Assistance Program
Alaysyah Yahyisrael wanted more space for her family and a yard for their dog, but at 
age 24, she figured a down payment for a house was out of her reach. Her goal was to 
stay in the neighborhood where she rented an apartment. It was close to her toddler 
son’s daycare facility and a short commute to her job with FedEx. Mostly, she wanted 
a manageable monthly payment. 
“But all the houses seemed like too much—too 
much money, too much of a down payment, 
too much in taxes,” said Yahyisrael. “It 
seemed like it wasn’t going to work out.”
Things began to change after Yahyisrael met 
with her real estate agent and her Fifth Third 
mortgage loan originator. She qualified for 
our Down Payment Assistance program 
which offers 3 percent of the purchase 
price in down payment assistance, up to 
$3,600*, for low-income borrowers or those 
purchasing in a designated low-income 
area and financed through us. The program also can be combined with state and local 
programs to help consumers take advantage 
of grants and other resources for their home 
purchase. Her mortgage loan officer helped 
her qualify for two programs.
In 2017, Yahyisrael and her family moved into 
a $60,000 four-bedroom, two-bathroom, 
2,246-square foot-home. She needed to bring 
$194 to the closing. “I love it. I can’t believe 
it,” Yahyisrael said, as she sat on the front 
porch with her boyfriend, Julian Robinson, 
and their son. “It’s more than I could have 
dreamed about.”  I wanted to make sure her house 
fit her needs. She couldn’t have 
done this without Fifth Third.
Misha Houston,  
Alaysyah  Yahyisrael’s Real Estate Agent, 
Re/Max Preferred GroupImpact Story
*To be eligible for the down payment assistance of 3% of the home’s purchase price, up to $3,600, the property must be in one of the following eligible states: MI, IN, IL, KY, TN, OH, WV, NC, GA, FL and either 
located in a low Income Census Tract or borrower must meet the low income limit threshold based on the qualifying income per FFIEC website. Down payment assistance may be taxable as income and reported 
to the IRS. Consult your tax advisor. Not available with all loan products.
Keep the Customer at the Center
12   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportFifth Third Day Babies Get Financial Boost
Clinton and Kara Ciani’s daughter, Clark Jacob, was born on May 3, 2017. Soon after,  
the couple received another gift: $1,053 from Fifth Third Bank in honor of Fifth Third Day, 
the fifth month and third day of the year.
The idea was to help families start their babies’ first 
savings account or a 529 college savings plan account, 
a tax-advantaged savings plan designed to encourage 
saving for college costs. Only about 3 percent of 
Americans have a 529 account according to a study by the 
U.S. Government Accountability Office. 
On Fifth Third Day, 108 families of babies born in hospitals 
from Northern Kentucky to Dayton received $1,053 from 
Fifth Third. Families also received a new parent care 
package.
The Ciani family was thrilled to receive the money and 
planned to open a 529 account for their daughter. “We want 
to help lessen the burden on our children,” Clinton Ciani said. 
His wife, Kara, added: “The sooner you start, the easier it 
is…. It’s her birthday; we can start today. You can’t really get 
much sooner than that.” 
For over 25 years, the Bank has used May 3 (5/3) as a 
day to thank valued customers, recognize employee 
contributions and support communities across our footprint. Fifth Third Day 
Babies: What better 
way to celebrate 
than to recognize the brightest new 
members of our 
community?
Tim Elsbrock,  
President, Cincinnati RegionImpact StoryKeep the Customer at the Center   13Building Better Businesses 
Keeping the customer at the center of everything we 
do is inclusive of all our customers—not just those of 
our Consumer Bank. We understand that businesses, 
especially small businesses, are the lifeblood of 
economically vibrant and healthy communities.  
Small businesses supply products and services to meet 
the needs of communities and provide employment 
opportunities for residents. Our primary service to 
businesses is to lend and provide quality depository 
and efficiency services. 
Small Business Lending & Technical Assistance
Fifth Third is a U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)  
lender. In 2017, our SBA lending was $155.9 million. 
SBA loans offer many benefits for small businesses, 
including fixed and variable interest rates with flexible 
terms, the ability to finance loan closing costs and 
lower down payments on commercial real estate. 
We offer many types of SBA lending options, including 
SBA Express Loans, which feature simpler application 
processes and faster approval than 7(a) general purposes loans. Fifth Third’s SBA Express Loan 
production was $29.6 million and increased 24 percent 
in dollar volume from 2016.
Members of our Small Business Community Lending team. The team was created in 2017 to focus on lending in low- to moderate-income markets within our footprint.Last year, we created a new small business 
community lender role and hired bankers to focus 
on low- and moderate-income markets. This builds 
upon our $30 billion Community Commitment, which 
includes $10 billion for small business lending, product innovation and enhanced underwriting and fulfillment. 
The team assists small business owners and emerging 
entrepreneurs in achieving their financial goals by 
providing smart financial solutions for both personal 
and business needs. “The Small Business Community 
Lending team is a critical component of our outreach 
to underserved or under-banked small business 
owners in our communities,” said Kala Gibson, head of 
Business Banking. 
We also provide technical assistance to small 
businesses. Our employees often provide one-on-
one business consulting to small business owners on 
topics such as financial management, marketing and 
executive education. 
Keep the Customer at the Center
14   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportExpanding Economic Opportunities
Community development financial institutions, 
otherwise known as CDFIs, share a common goal 
of expanding economic opportunity in low-income 
communities by providing access to financial products 
and services for residents and businesses. We are 
committed to supporting the work of CDFIs as part 
of our efforts to boost small business growth in 
underserved communities within our geographic 
footprint.
In 2017, we supported the Economic & Community 
Development Institute (ECDI) in Columbus, Ohio, 
through the Fifth Third Community Development 
Corporation (CDC). The Fifth Third CDC approved 
a $2 million investment in the institute’s micro-loan 
fund. ECDI is the third-largest U.S. Small Business 
Administration intermediary micro-lender and the largest 
in Ohio. It is also the largest U.S. Treasury-designated 
CDFI in the state with a focus on small business. As is often the case, Fifth Third CDC’s investment was 
broadened by support from our Bank and employees. 
We provided $15,000 in charitable contributions and 
185 volunteer service hours (July 2016-July 2017) to 
support ECDI’s small business education, technical 
assistance and Women’s Business Center programs. 
Banking center managers and small business lenders 
worked with ECDI’s Women’s Business Center to 
provide educational workshops. This support came 
after Fifth Third Bank (Central Ohio) provided a 
leadership gift of $50,000 for the build-out of ECDIs 
Women’s Business Center in 2014. At that time, it was 
the only SBA-funded Women’s Business Center in the 
state of Ohio. Today, it serves 345 women-owned small 
business members. Stefanie Steward-Young, our CRA 
strategies director, serves as Board Chair. 
Fifth Third Chairman, President & CEO Greg Carmichael made a visit to the Women’s Business Center in 2017 to get an inside look at the organization’s operations and service to the community.The Accion Impact 
Our commitment to put business customers at the center  
of everything we do is the driving force behind our ongoing  
collaboration with Accion U.S. Networks, a global 
Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI). 
Fifth Third and Accion share the goal of expanding access 
to capital and education resources to underserved small 
businesses. Our alliance makes that possible in Florida, Illinois, 
Indiana, Michigan and Ohio. In 2017, we collaborated with 
Accion to help entrepreneurs overcome barriers and achieve 
business growth, and Accion leveraged our grant to provide 
capital to small business owners and personal technical 
assistance for every small business owner who applies for  
a loan. 
Dayton, Ohio, business owner Kevin Clemons is a prime 
example of a customer that Accion was able to assist. 
Clemons always had been interested in computer science 
and information systems, starting when his mother bought 
him a Commodore 64 as a child. After serving in the U.S. 
Marine Corps for eight years and becoming a top-level 
security engineer for the military, Clemons started his own 
cybersecurity firm in 2005. His business, ClemCorp,  
specializes in providing premier information technology, 
systems engineering and scientific services support to clients.
Over the past 12 years, Clemons has been growing his 
business. He has worked with a number of large clients, 
including the Wright Patterson Air Force Base. Despite this 
growth, the business relies on short-term contracts, which are 
not always paid in time for the business’s payroll cycle. In order 
to pay his employees, Clemons initially looked into a U.S. Small 
Business Administration (SBA) loan but did not qualify. His 
local Chamber of Commerce helped him by reaching out to 
us. Banker Micah Dickson connected him to Accion, which was 
able to provide him with a $21,000 loan. “My loan consultant 
was very good at keeping me informed and worked hard to 
get me what I needed to cover payroll,” Clemons said. 
Keep the Customer at the Center   15588
loans  
originated
$5.9m
market  
lending
1,764
estimated jobs 
created
7,546
people given 
tech assistance
BY THE NUMBERS*
*2017Impact Story
Build a Stronger Community
16   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportBuild a  
Stronger 
Community
BY THE NUMBERS*
$2.6b
home mortgages 
financed$1.8b
small business 
loans$2.3b
community 
development 
loans$21.7m
charitable  
giving
We see it as an integral part of our business 
strategies to ensure that our communities thrive. 
We are committed to forging strategic partnerships 
across our footprint to positively impact community 
needs. This work contributed to our ‘Outstanding’ 
CRA rating and our ongoing fulfillment of our  
$30 billion Community Commitment.
Byna Elliott,  
Chief Corporate Community & Economic Development Officer 
*2017Build a Stronger Community   17Community Reinvestment Act 
Fifth Third’s overall performance in Lending, 
Investments and Service—the three tests that 
financial institutions undergo under the federal 
Community Reinvestment Act—was rated 
“Outstanding” by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland for its most recent examination period of 
January 1, 2014 through June 30, 2016. 
Fifth Third was rated “Outstanding” in Lending and 
Investments and “High Satisfactory” on the Service 
component to merit the overall “Outstanding,” which  
is the highest possible rating.
The Federal Reserve Bank’s evaluation cited several 
reasons for our rating. According to the report, we 
demonstrated an excellent responsiveness to credit 
needs; distribution of loans among borrowers of 
different income levels and businesses of different 
revenue sizes; leadership in making community 
development loans and investments; and leadership in 
providing community development services.
Our CRA rating is a key marker in our ongoing efforts 
to fulfill our corporate Purpose to improve the lives of 
customers and the well-being of our communities. 
Community Commitment Plan: Year Two
We are making good progress on our $30 billion 
Community Commitment. With significant help 
and engagement with numerous community and 
business organizations, we completed year two of 
the five-year plan with $14.5 billion in lending and 
investments to improve lives throughout our 10 
footprint states. 
Homeownership remains a priority for many of our 
neighbors and we have a key role in helping them 
achieve that dream. Since the start of our Commitment, 
nearly 45,000 customers have turned to us for 
mortgage loans. A number of these took advantage of our new assistance program that reduces the 
burden of a down payment by providing up to 
$3,600 for low-income families. We also have been 
grateful for the opportunity to offer free affordable 
housing workshops in all of our markets.
Similarly, we were grateful for the opportunity 
to strengthen local business communities. With 
28,000 loans worth $3.7 billion over the last two 
years, small business owners were able to build and 
expand their businesses, providing an economic 
boost to our communities.“Outstanding” CRA Rating: How We Got Here
$7B 
loans & investments  
in underserved 
communities$567 M 
affordable housing  
investments$27.3 M 
charitable donations 
to nonprofit community 
organizations>118 K
volunteer hours  
given by Fifth Third 
employeesBuild a Stronger Community
18   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportAreas received further economic 
boosts through $4.9 billion in 
community development loans 
and investments through the Fifth 
Third Community Development 
Corporation. One example is a $5 
million investment made with IFF.  
The mission-driven lender and real  
estate developer in Chicago creates  
opportunities for low-income 
communities throughout the 
Midwest. In response to need, our 
Commercial Real Estate group 
developed a 15-year permanent 
loan for affordable housing. 
Philanthropic gifts also are a 
significant way that Fifth Third puts 
money behind its commitment. 
Nonprofit organizations 
throughout our footprint were 
the beneficiaries of $38.4 million 
in community support. The Fifth 
Third Foundation also launched the 
Strengthening Our Communities 
Fund that awards organizations 
grants for affordable housing, 
small business micro lending, 
technical assistance and financial 
empowerment programs. The 
Foundation awarded $2.5 million in 
such grants in 2017.
Community Advisory Forums, 
formed as part of the Commitment, 
completed their first year of 
meetings with leaders of the Bank 
in 2017. Conversations with our 
national and regional advisors 
have been frank, strategic and 
productive, helping us be a more 
responsive and responsible 
community leader. Employees 
also conducted community 
conversations throughout our 
footprint, the continuation of a 
commitment we made as we 
developed our five-year plan to 
regularly engage with civic and 
other organizations.Since 2016, Fifth Third invested 
$14.5 billion,  or 48.3 percent , 
of its total lending  and 
investment commitment.
$5.9b
Mortgage Lending
(147% OF GOAL)
$3.7b
Small Business Lending
(115% OF GOAL)
$41m
Philanthropic Donations
(113% OF GOAL)$4.9b
Community Development 
Lending (137% OF GOAL)Build a Stronger Community   19Accelerating Affordable Housing Capacity 
Building housing capacity through training of mission-based affordable housing 
professionals for community leaders is a key component of our $30 billion Community 
Commitment. In 2017, we partnered with the National Development Council (NDC) to offer 
Rental Housing Development Finance, a class in NDC’s Housing Development Finance 
Professional Certification  series, to nearly 40 emerging community leaders from eight states. 
The participants, who were high-performing 
real estate professionals dedicated to helping 
low- to moderate-income families get into 
affordable rental housing, were brought to 
our corporate headquarters for the five-day 
course, with Fifth Third covering all expenses. 
It was done as part of our emerging leaders 
program, which has enabled leaders to 
participate in educational forums and 
conferences over the past several years. 
“The need for more affordable housing is an 
issue that affects the entire United States, 
especially in minority, low- and moderate-
income neighborhoods,” said Tom Jackson, 
director of training at NDC. “This training 
prepares staff from housing advocacy 
and development organizations to more effectively tackle their communities’ needs by 
building their capacity to close financing gaps 
that keep critical projects from moving from 
plans to occupancy.” 
Byna Elliott, senior vice president and Fifth 
Third’s chief corporate community and 
economic development officer, said the 
course would empower professionals in 
their communities. “These are mission-based 
developers who will focus on neighborhood 
redevelopment and quality affordable housing. Through this training, they will 
be equipped to take an idea from paper 
to a tangible development project. They’ll 
be able to ensure that these projects create 
sustainable community redevelopment and 
stabilize communities.” Impact Story
Build a Stronger Community
20   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportOur L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved through Financial 
Empowerment®) programs deliver smart, practical 
(and often personal) financial education to 
individuals at every age and stage of life. 
We now offer six L.I.F.E. programs, including two 
that debuted in 2017. We offer our L.I.F.E. programs 
in a variety of ways, most of them with a trusted 
community or business partner organization that helps 
us connect with the people who can most benefit from 
our financial expertise.
$martPath
$martPath was a new program for us in 2017 that 
was funded through a grant from the Fifth Third 
Foundation. We worked with the University of 
Cincinnati (UC) Economics Center to deliver this 
financial education program for grades 1 through 6 in 
the states of Ohio, Michigan and Florida. The program 
earned UC and Fifth Third an Honorable Mention from 
the American Bankers Association for advancing 
financial education. In total, $martPath was taught in 
115 school districts in those three states from March 
through September. In Ohio, the average percentage of 
low- and moderate-income students was 61.8 percent. 
In Michigan, that figure was 58.2 percent, and in Florida,  
it was 47 percent.“This program was a game-changer for my students,” 
said a teacher in Columbus, Ohio. “The environment 
in which my students live is one that does not always 
embrace the importance of informed decision making. 
My students enjoyed every lesson.” Those lessons 
include: goal setting, budgeting, saving and spending 
decisions, methods of payment, business operations 
and more. $martPath uses animated stories at each 
grade level, along with traditional classroom activities 
and online interactive exercises.
Young Bankers Club
Fifth Third’s Young Bankers Club® program was 
developed in-house in 2004 and has graduated 
21,123 fifth-grade students. In 2017, we graduated 
2,451 students who reside in our 10 footprint states. 
The program is taught by our employees who visit 
elementary schools once per week for either five or 
10 weeks, or at the teacher’s request. It teaches the 
importance of education, saving and budgeting.
Students from Indiana celebrate graduating from Young Bankers Club in 2017.Financial Education & Empowerment
2,451
Young Bankers Club 
graduates in 2017
Build a Stronger Community   21A Letter from a Young Bankers Club Teacher
Financial Access & Empowerment Programs
$mart  
Path
Elementary School High School AdultLoretta Humphrey-Cruz, a community development relationship manager in Detroit, Michigan, recently received 
this letter from a curriculum coach at a school that has used Fifth Third’s Young Bankers Club program for many 
years, demonstrating how foundational financial education can result in positive behavior shifts that will have 
long-term benefits. Cruz said, “I’m so grateful to Ms. Moreland-Trice for updating me on her former student. It is so 
rewarding to know that our program resonates. Sometimes it takes a while to see the difference we make in the lives of people we serve—it’s so gratifying to know that we are helping to set students up for lifelong success .” 
Good afternoon Mrs. Humphrey-Cruz,
First, I want to thank you for allowing Rutherford Winans Academy for being a part of the Fifth 
Third Bank Young Bankers Club. I wanted to reach out and share a success story about one of my students. Six years ago, when you first selected our school to participate, I had a young man that would brag about spending $75 on one pair of Nike socks. The further we got into your curriculum, the more he expressed how much he was learning about how to manage money. At the end of your program, you gave all of the students a sample checkbook and a starter check for $5.00. My student’s mother took him to a Fifth Third branch and opened a savings account for him. 
I checked in on him recently and talked to his mother about her son, who was then entering the 
ninth grade. His mother told me that his savings account was still open and that he had saved approximately $5,000 with the help of family. She also told me that he began purchasing a lot of his items when on sale and putting the money he saved on those purchases into his account!
As an educator, I want to thank you for helping me to inspire my students. We appreciate you and 
Fifth Third Bank at Rutherford Winans Academy. Thank you for letting us be a part of the Young Bankers Club program.
Sincerely,
Mrs. Falicia Moreland-Trice, Curriculum Coach at Rutherford Winans Academy
Impact Story
Fifth Third Bank’s digital financial  
education and entrepreneurship   
program for high school students
Build a Stronger Community
22   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportFifth Third Finance Academy
By the time many Americans reach adulthood, they 
have already experienced the burden of financial stress. 
Research shows that 95 percent of parents agree that 
students should learn about personal finance in school. 
Last year, Fifth Third took a significant step forward 
in its financial education programming for high school 
students. In conjunction with education technology 
company EVERFI, Inc., we developed and launched 
Fifth Third Finance Academy, which gives all students 
an equal opportunity to learn essential financial skills. 
Finance Academy includes two web-based courses. 
The financial literacy course is a series of modules 
covering topics like investing basics and common 
financial accounts. Each course module provides bite-
sized instructional animations that make the topics 
approachable and relatable to students. In addition, 
Finance Academy immerses students in real-life 
financial scenarios and documentation, such as filling 
out a FAFSA form. Through its entrepreneurship course, Finance Academy builds and empowers 
the next generation of business owners by guiding 
them through the creation of a business plan—from 
idea generation to taking a business to market to 
sustainable business practices. 
The course technology of Finance Academy uniquely 
tracks the progress of each student. They are assessed 
before, during and after the course to ensure financial 
proficiency. While students are on their computers 
and mobile devices learning, teachers get real-time 
student score reports, supplemental offline lesson 
plans, detailed standards alignment guides, answer 
keys for all assessments and discussion guides. The 
learning doesn’t end when the courses do. We 
built programming and outreach—called Financial 
Empowerment Days—into the program offering. On Financial Empowerment Days, employee volunteers 
visit schools and classrooms to lead continued 
education experiences. In 2017, we educated 30,215 
students through Finance Academy and students 
completed nearly 93,000 course hours.FINANCE ACADEMY PROVIDES
WITH A GOAL OF REACHINGHands-on, self-paced 
digital programmingMeasurement & growth 
 of financial capability 
STUDENTS ANNUALLY
Finance Academy offers two unique 
courses:  Financial Education and 
Entrepreneurship.  Both courses meet 
Jump$tart and Common Core  national 
and state curriculum standards.I feel like it will be good for my 
personal finances and knowing 
exactly where I want to be.
Mikaela Still,  a 2017 Finance Academy studentBuild a Stronger Community   23Fifth Third Bank Empower U®
Our Empower U program is a financial education curriculum for adults and 
covers such subjects as preparing for homeownership, protecting one’s 
identity and ways to finance higher education. It is taught both to employees 
of business clients as well as in the community. In Cleveland, our employees 
worked with MetroHealth Hospital on a program called Metro Match, which 
gave MetroHealth employees the opportunity to establish an emergency 
savings fund while taking Empower U courses. In Kentucky, we partnered 
with Brescia University in Owensboro to provide financial empowerment 
resources for their students. This included Financial Center Manager Trish 
Green participating in their summer orientation programs, teaching a basic 
banking class for incoming freshman and offering workshops on budgeting 
and credit building for the general student population.  
NextJob
Our workforce solution program is one in which customers of Fifth Third 
can get job search and training assistance. In collaboration with NextJob, a 
reemployment company, we offer a three-pronged training program for 
distressed mortgage customers, and we also offer online training called the 
Job Seeker’s Toolkit, which can be accessed via our authenticated banking site 
at 53.com or on board our eBuses. In 2017, we expanded the program with a new collaboration with the National Association for the Advancement of 
Colored People (NAACP) to provide NextJob services for members. Financial Empowerment 
Mobiles
Our eBuses made over 
200 tour stops in 2017 
and met with 16,272 
people who were seeking 
access to quality financial 
products and services, 
financial education, credit 
counseling, job search and 
training help and VITA tax 
preparation services. They 
also were used to support 
hurricane efforts in Florida.
To enable our Fifth Third Empowerment Mobiles to serve more people in a variety of different ways, we upgraded one of our 
eBuses to a new format in 2017. It is equipped with 12 computer workstations, two large monitors and a conference room to host financial education workshops and private credit counseling sessions.
24   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportWe funded over $2 billion in community 
development loans and invested $209 million 
through the Fifth Third CDC to support communities 
in 2017. Community development is a key component 
of our Community Commitment plan as we work to 
help foster and build sustainable communities that 
provide for increased economic opportunities for both 
businesses and individuals. 
Regular interaction with community organizations and 
leaders is one way to make a difference. Our Community Advisory Forums—the national group as well as five 
statewide forums—are comprised of leading community 
advisors and practitioners. We meet with them several 
times each year and also engage with hundreds of other 
community organizations in every market we serve. 
These conversations are vital to ensuring that we are 
addressing the most pressing needs of our communities 
and help us to develop strategic plans so we can affect 
the most positive change.
Illustrating this point is a project called Bond Hill 
Roselawn Senior Housing in Cincinnati. The project, a 
50-unit affordable housing community, was part of the 
city’s development plan. We came together in multiple 
ways to support the plan. In 2017, our Commercial Bank  
made a construction loan of $6 million as well as a $1.7  million loan at the completion of the project. The Fifth 
Third CDC also committed $10.2 million in the project. Community Development 
Capital Solutions
Build a Stronger Community
Before and after the $11 million Abington Race and Pleasant renovation project in Cincinnati’s Over-the-Rhine neighborhood.The property, when completed, will be comprised 
of a four-story elevator-serviced residential building 
with one- and two-bedroom apartments. The facility 
will include a community room, exercise and fitness 
programs, wellness checks, financial case management, 
estate planning, life management programs, social 
activities, community events, transportation services 
and mentoring programs. 
The Fifth Third CDC has invested more than $3 billion 
into local communities since its inception. This includes funding over 700 projects, including affordable housing, 
commercial, retail, office and historic buildings; and the 
creation or preservation of over 60,000 units of housing 
though Fifth Third CDC equity investments.
In Cincinnati, the CDC invested more than $11 million 
in the Abington Race and Pleasant project in the city’s 
Over-the-Rhine neighborhood. The project involves the 
renovation of five dilapidated buildings and consists 
of 50 units of affordable family housing above seven commercial spaces. The project has multi-tax sources 
and fundings to make this project come together. The Fifth Third CDC has invested 
more than $3 billion  into local 
communities since its inception.Build a Stronger Community   25
Greg Carmichael and Fifth Third employees served lunch and provided entertainment to  children while families 
received assistance with FEMA applications in Naples.BY THE NUMBERSThe CDC also invested $3.65 
million into Emerald Gardens, 
an apartment complex in West 
Hamlin, West Virginia. It marks the 
first investment in West Virginia 
since 2014 as it has a limited 
supply of low-income housing tax 
credit properties. West Hamlin is 
located 30 minutes southwest of 
Huntington. The project consists of 42 townhomes targeted for families 
at or below 40 and 60 percent area 
median income.
Our eBuses visited Tampa, Naples and Daytona 
Beach and served as stations to apply for FEMA 
assistance, use a Wi-Fi hotspot, charge cell phones 
and served as cooling stations. We placed two 
mobile ATMs in Florida in areas where many ATMs 
weren’t working and assembled forces to reopen our 
financial centers quickly to meet community needs. 
An assistance program for impacted areas meant 
waiving or refunding some fees, along with other 
financial relief. Our corporation, the Foundation 
and employees also joined with the community to 
provide more than $500,000 through grants and 
other support. Stepping up in Times of 
Disaster
When parts of the country were ravaged by 
devastating hurricanes in 2017, we mobilized 
financial empowerment mobiles, or eBuses, 
to affected regions, primarily in Florida in the 
aftermath of Hurricane Irma. 
$2b
community 
development loans
$209m
CDC  
investmentsImpact StoryGiving Children an Advantage
The Fifth Third Community Development Corporation (CDC), in collaboration with the Ohio 
Capital Corporation for Housing, helped ensure that 1,000 economically disadvantaged 
children in Ohio and Kentucky started the 2017-2018 school year with the right supplies 
through the Starting at an Advantage initiative. 
The CDC obtained classroom-supply lists from a variety 
of districts to compile a back-to-school package geared 
toward three age groups: pre-kindergarten, elementary and 
secondary (middle- and high-schoolers). In total, the CDC, 
through the Ohio Capital’s Impact Fund, donated $100,000 
to the initiative. The children who benefitted live in affordable 
housing developments in which the CDC has invested. 
“Our work to provide families with safe, decent and affordable 
housing is a critical factor in advancing the stability of 
children,” said Catherine Cawthon, senior vice president and 
head of the Fifth Third CDC. “Helping provide school supplies 
is an additional way for us to make an immediate impact.”  
The Starting at an Advantage initiative was a first step to 
provide children with the support and enrichment they need  
in the classroom. 
The CDC also is a generous partner in the Resident Development 
Fund, an Ohio Capital Corporation for Housing program that 
provides access to summer camps and other enrichment 
opportunities. The CDC supported a $75,000 grant toward 
sending children to camp and providing backpacks. 
Backpacks and 
school supply kits 
were provided for 
1,000  children.
26   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR Report
Build a Stronger Community
Impact StoryEmployee Volunteerism
It’s our privilege to be an integral part of the communities we  
serve and to support organizations like the United Way in all of  
our regions. In 2017, our corporate and employee donations  
totaled $7.1 million. 
Our leaders, like Bob Sullivan, regional chairman of Fifth Third Bank 
(Chicago), served as the chair of Chicago’s Metropolitan United Way 
Campaign, a position he was well prepared for after his previous 
leadership of Cincinnati’s campaign. His campaign exceeded its goals. 
Our support goes beyond dollars, though. Employee team members 
extend a hand into their neighborhoods through volunteerism. In 2017, 
our employees logged 112,908 volunteer hours. 
For example, more than 1,000 employees, families and friends walked 
more than 1.2 million miles last year in support of the Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society’s Light the Night. The event aims to bring light to 
the darkness of a cancer diagnosis through hope, research and support 
for patients, families, friends, doctors, nurses, researchers, colleagues 
and caregivers. In addition to showing their support with their feet, our 
employees helped raise more than $300,000 for the effort. In addition, 
the Cincinnati city-wide event was chaired by our CAO, Teresa Tanner. 
Her leadership resulted in a donations increase of 36%.
In Indiana, we revved up efforts to drive food donations in the 
community around Fifth Third Day (5/3 on the calendar) by 
partnering with Rahal Letterman Lanigan Racing and INDYCAR 
driver Graham Rahal. Employee volunteers collected pasta 
throughout the month of May to benefit Second Helpings, a local 
nonprofit, and the Flanner House Urban Garden as part of our annual 
Feeding Our Communities initiative. “We are thankful Fifth Third is 
committed to helping end hunger in our region,” said Brandon Cosby, executive director for Flanner House. “Every day we see people who 
are facing food insecurity. Fifth Third employees are invested in rolling 
up their sleeves to contribute to our efforts to build a sustainable food 
system for our community.”
Employees also helped support the Feeding Our Communities 
initiative in Kentucky, where we partnered with St. Vincent De Paul 
and God’s Pantry, both in Lexington. Throughout May, across our 
banking centers, we collected food from employees and customers for 
the organizations. We also contributed $8,000 and helped serve lunch 
and pack food boxes.
Build a Stronger Community   27Rahal Letterman Lanigan Racing and INDYCAR driver Graham Rahal joined Fifth Third employees at the Flanner House 
Urban Garden on FIfth Third Day as part of our annual Feeding Our Communities initiative.
Fifth Third employees volunteered 
112,908 hours  in our communities.
28   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportBuild a Stronger Community
Philanthropy
Our Fifth Third Foundation was the first corporate 
philanthropic foundation established by a financial 
institution in 1948. Since then, our foundation 
has focused on providing financial support 
to organizations in the areas of community 
development, health and human services, the arts 
and education. 
The Foundation’s support is augmented by donations 
made through Fifth Third Bancorp. In 2017, our 
combined philanthropic support was $21.7 million. 
Strengthening Our Communities Fund Grants
One of the most significant announcements we 
made last year was $2.5 million in Strengthening 
Our Communities Fund grants. Funded primarily by 
the Fifth Third Foundation, the Fund awards grants 
to designated nonprofit programs that support 
homeownership, affordable housing, small business 
development and financial stability for individuals 
and families. Programs in these areas strengthen and 
stabilize communities and make them a better place to 
live, work and thrive. 
“The Strengthening Our Community grants are important 
because they result in people’s lives being positively 
changed, and they allow organizations the opportunity 
to expand their reach,” said Heidi Jark, managing 
director, Fifth Third Foundation. “Through these grants, we are able to continue building lasting relationships 
and strengthen the communities we serve.” 
The fund in 2017 had an impact on more than 355 
people through neighborhood revitalization projects 
and nearly 5,200 people who received workforce 
development and financial education services. More 
than 1,640 households were assisted with resources for 
home repair and rehab programs that helped senior 
citizens maintain their homes and through homeowner 
assistance programs that helped people achieve the 
American dream of homeownership. Nearly 2,200 
more people were helped by economic development 
programs, including technical assistance and micro-
lending for small businesses. 
Fifth Third Bank’s Western Michigan region received 
$250,000 in grants. “We are humbled and grateful to 
be a Strengthening Our Communities grant recipient 
and to mobilize these funds in the Roosevelt Park 
neighborhood of Grand Rapids,” said BriAnne McKee, 
executive director of Habitat for Humanity of Kent 
County. “Fifth Third Bank’s generosity and commitment 
to affordable housing and strong neighborhoods is 
bringing the neighbors of Roosevelt Park one step 
closer to realizing their vision for their neighborhood.” 
Other organizations in the region that received funds 
were the Literacy Center of West Michigan for linking 
adult and financial literacy programs, and Start Garden 
for its loan pool fund. Fifth Third employees “light up the night” in support of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society in Cincinnati.The Bank is committed to creating strategic, philanthropic community 
partnerships that align with programs and impact focus areas for the 
purpose of empowering communities and the people in them.
Byna Elliott,  Chief Corporate Community & Development Officer
Build a Stronger Community   29Strengthening Our Communities through  Strategic Grants
Strengthening Our Communities grants were awarded to deserving organizations across 
Fifth Third’s footprint, including: 
Central Ohio
• Community Development for All People’s healthy 
neighborhoods and families program.
• Habitat for Humanity MidOhio’s Habitat Housing 
Initiative. 
• Ohio Minority Supplier Development Council’s 
supplier diversity executive education program.
• Partners Achieving Community Transition’s home repair program.
• The United Way of Central Ohio’s leadership academy.
Chicago
• Concordia University of Chicago for the higher education of 11 students as part of Tomorrow’s Promise.
Florida
• Affordable Homeownership Foundation’s program for affordable housing for low-to-moderate income 
home buyers with disabilities. 
• Central Florida Urban League’s Meet the Bankers.
• Corporation to Develop Communities of Tampa’s comprehensive asset building project.
• Florida Gulf Coast University’s growth acceleration 
and new market development initiatives. 
• Florida Housing Coalition’s nonprofit rental development capacity.
• Hispanic Business Initiative Fund of Florida’s 
technical assistance.
• University of South Florida Foundation’s Florida 
Small Business Development Center.
• Urban League of Broward County’s  
Entrepreneurship Center. Georgia
• Access to Capital for Entrepreneurs for the ACE 
Business Advisory Services.
• Atlanta Neighborhood Development Partnership’s 
Neighborhood by Neighborhood Initiative.
• Georgia Advancing Communities Together’s Capacity 
Building Initiative.
• Urban League of Greater Atlanta’s Housing and Community Development Program. 
North Carolina
• Charlotte Housing Authority/CORE’s Destination Homeownership.
• Charlotte Mecklenburg Housing Partnership’s 
Homeownership Center of Charlotte.
• Community Link’s VITA/Homeownership Asset 
Building program.
• North Carolina Development Initiative’s Building Capacity and Meeting the Need fund. 
• North Carolina Institute of Minority Economic Development’s small business technical assistance. 
• Renaissance West Community Initiative’s computer 
literacy training program. 
Toledo
• Area Office on Aging to provide accessibility-related 
repairs for senior home owners.
• LISC of Toledo’s First Steps to Homeownership Initiative.
• YMCA of Greater Toledo to support financial literacy within its Youth Opportunity program; 
• YWCA of Northwest Ohio to support survivors of emotional and physical abuse.Impact Story
30   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportBe Respectful & 
Inclusive
BY THE NUMBERS
$50.4 m
Supplier  
Diversity spend100%
Human Rights 
Campaign 
Corporate Equality  
Index Score+2k
Business 
Resource Group 
members100 %
Diversity Best 
Practices  
Transparency Score
Be Respectful & Inclusive
The commitment to Be Respectful and Inclusive 
is a commitment to live a Core Value that makes 
Fifth Third a place where people want to work, 
want to bank and want to connect. Inclusion in  
all things fosters respect, trust and good will.  
It makes all of us better and it makes our Bank 
better, too.
Jule Kucera,  
Chief Diversity & Corporate Responsibility OfficerInclusion & Diversity
Inclusion and diversity are essential to living our 
Core Values and to serving customers, delivering 
financial performance and being recognized as a 
leader in building an engaging workplace, a strong 
supplier base and vibrant communities. 
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are one way our 
Company fosters inclusion and diversity. In 2017, we 
expanded BRG access by creating Enterprise BRGs 
to enable employees to participate virtually in 
addition to joining in-person regional BRGs. Employees join these groups to celebrate inclusion and diversity 
while benefitting from leadership, development and 
community involvement opportunities. Employees can 
join as many BRGs as they choose and do not need to 
be a member of a group’s constituency to participate.
Progress in 2017 included: 
• Launching eight executive-led Enterprise BRGs.
• Increasing number of regional BRGs to 10,  
with 69 chapters.
• Increasing number of BRG members to over 2,000.
• Holding 18 virtual EBRG sessions.The young professionals BRG in Tennessee, called YP53, made great strides in 2017 in developing a strategic plan for the group. They selected Room in the Inn, an organization pictured here, to be their 
volunteer focus. Members of YP53 volunteered several times last year at the organization that serves Nashville’s homeless population. YP53 also hosted a negotiations seminar last year, and hosted a networking session for members of the business community.
Victoria Daly, a Fifth Third Human Resources specialist 
in the Cincinnati region, said, “The goal of the Women’s 
BRG is to provide opportunities that inspire women to 
recognize and achieve their full potential. As a co-chair 
for the leadership and development subcommittee, 
I was able to build leadership skills while having an 
impact on BRG members through programs and 
events. Our most notable contribution for 2017 was the 
successful pilot of our Leadership and Development 
Book club, which connected members and Women in Leadership participants.”
“As co-chair for the LGBT group in Kentucky, we 
get chances to be out in the community and show 
Fifth Third’s commitment to diversity and inclusion,” 
said Justin Preece, vice president and retail regional 
manager in Louisville, Kentucky. “We did that this past 
year by volunteering at the Lexington Pride Festival. 
I am most proud of being there because we were the 
only bank at the event, and we had multiple people thank us for our visibility. We had the chance to 
interact with existing clients and attracted new clients 
due to our presence.”
Be Respectful & Inclusive   31Be Respectful & Inclusive
32   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportTalent Diversity
We are committed to talent diversity at every level 
of our Company, from our Board of Directors to 
our Executive Team to our over 18,000 employees. 
We also are committed to full disclosure and to 
publishing our diversity demographic data. We did 
so for the first time in the 2016 CSR Report and are 
pleased to continue. We are proud of our efforts while 
also recognizing that this commitment to balanced 
representation requires ongoing effort. 
We operate the Women in Leadership (WIL) program, 
an integrated development experience targeted to 
high-performing senior female leaders who we believe 
can have more impact and influence on the success of our Company. Fifth Third Board of Directors *
Female and/or
people of colorMale and whiteFifth Third Employees &  
Board of Directors *
WomenPeople of 
Color
Board of Directors 33.3% 25%
Exec/Sr. Managers 24% 10.4%
First/Mid. Managers 49.9% 17%
Professionals 51.3% 16.8%
All Others** 69.3% 31.2%
Total 59.9% 24.4%
The program is focused on accelerating participants’ 
readiness to lead at the next level, and ultimately, in 
the C suite. Partici pants are challenged to leverage 
their leadership capabilities through skill building, 
experiential learning and exposure to enhance the 
achievement of business outcomes.  
About 10 women go through the program each 
year after they have been nominated by our Bank’s 
Enterprise Committee. Since 2015, more than 29 
women have graduated from the program and more 
than one-third have been promoted and/or taken a 
new role with expanded responsibilities.
The program inspired me to be more bold and think 
bigger about my career and the transferability of 
my skills to other roles. It gave me greater passion 
to pay-it-forward—sharing what I’ve learned to 
support and encourage others.
Marcie Wright,  
Director, Regional Portfolio Management, Senior Vice President
*As of December 31, 2017. Greg Carmichael became board chair 2/1/18. Marsha C. Williams served as board chair 4/19/16–2/1/18. She now serves as lead director.
**Source: December 31, 2017, employee data produced in a manner consistent with EEO-1 reporting with aggregation across EEO-1 ethnicity categories. “All Others” is a combination of the following 
EEO-1 job categories: sales workers and administrative support.BOARD 
CHAIRLEAD 
DIRECTORBe Respectful & Inclusive   33A Maternity Concierge for Fifth Third Moms 
When Lexus Smith learned her baby would be several weeks early, she panicked. The 
customer service representative in Cincinnati needed to prepare for the early arrival of her 
son and move up her baby shower all while working full-time and raising her 5-year-old 
daughter. Her mom could only drive from her home in Tampa to visit for one weekend, so 
the baby shower had to be that week.
That’s when Smith turned to Fifth Third’s 
Maternity Concierge Program, designed to 
assist women with the unique challenges 
they face during pregnancy, after the baby is 
born and especially upon their return to work. 
The free program is powered by Best Upon 
Request and begins when a woman learns 
she is pregnant, continues through maternity 
leave and ends when the baby turns 1. The 
Bank introduced the program in 2017 to help 
retain and recruit women.
Smith talked with Best Upon Request 
Concierge Jessica Hanson. “That’s when I 
knew everything was going to be OK,” she 
said. “Jessica took care of me like she was my 
mother.” Hanson called six places and found 
the perfect spot for the baby shower that met 
her specifications for budget, food and location. 
“She just helped ease all of my stress,” said 
Smith, whose son, Zavier, is now 13 months 
old. “It made me feel valued, like I wasn’t just 
a number. Fifth Third wants employees who 
are OK at the end of the day on every level.…  
I can provide better service when I don’t have 
so many things on my mind.”
Smith later moved to work for Fifth Third 
in Tampa, and during Hurricane Irma, the 
Maternity Concierge helped get her distilled 
water for formula for her son. 
“Maternity Concierge is part of Fifth Third’s 
commitment to provide an environment 
and culture where working mothers can not 
only succeed, but excel,” said Teresa Tanner, 
executive vice president and Fifth Third’s 
chief administrative officer , who worked 
with Best Upon Request to co-create the 
program. In its first year, the program enrolled 
about 300 women from all 10 states in our 
retail footprint. The Maternity Concierge 
made me feel valued,  
like I wasn’t just a number.
Lexus Smith,  
Customer Service RepresentativeImpact Story
Engagement & Wellness 
We are extremely proud of our efforts to enable 
employees to confidently say they are “banking 
on me.” We are striving to be a leader in employee 
wellness leadership. The new Maternity Concierge 
program clearly tells Fifth Third moms that we care 
about them—both personally and professionally. To 
further support working parents, we made four weeks 
of paid bonding leave available to all new employee 
parents (male and female) in 2017. The benefit provides 
important paid time away from work without the need to use sick and vacation time.
Financial wellness also is an important component 
to our employees’ overall well-being. We launched a 
new employee financial program, provided by Ayco, in 
2017. The program offers employees personal financial 
coaching and online resources to help them become 
more financially fit. 
Stacey Bowers, a banking center support specialist, 
had this to say about the personal coaching provided through the program: “I met over the phone with a 
financial coach to discuss my finances. The coach 
was very helpful and motivated me to take action to 
improve my situation.” 
The new myWellness–Financial program offered 
through Ayco is a complement to the myWellness—
Health program, powered by Go365. Together, along 
with other benefits like LifeWorks, the maternity 
concierge and more, the program holistically supports the overall wellness of our employees and their families. Be Respectful & Inclusive
34   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR Report
We offer these and other benefits like LifeWorks, a free and confidential program that provides employees 
and their families with support for a variety of issues, 
including tips on family topics, stress management 
advice and tools for researching products and services. 
In serving customers, supporting one another and 
improving communities, they drive the Bank’s business, 
reputation and success. We strive to fairly recognize 
and compensate employees based on individual 
performance and market alignment. 
When the U.S. government passed tax legislation in 
December, including a reduction in corporate tax rates, 
we saw an opportunity to further recognize employees’ 
efforts. We were the first bank to announce:
• A rise in our minimum hourly wage to $15 . All non-
exempt employees who had previously earned less 
than $15 per hour received a base pay increase to 
meet the new minimum. The pay increase became 
effective just after the New Year. 
• Over 13,500 employees received a one-time 
payment of $1,000 , paid in December 2017.
These investments help to reward, recruit and retain employees. As our chairman, president and CEO  
Greg Carmichael said at the time, “It is the right thing 
to do.”
Fifth Third “Banking on Me” ProgramsBeing Inclusive of those with Disabilities
Project SEARCH is a one-year, school-to-work transition program for individuals with 
intellectual and developmental disabilities that we helped establish in 2005. We operate 
three Project SEARCH campuses, two in Cincinnati and one in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Be Respectful & Inclusive   35Over the years, we have guided and mentored 
more than 260 students and prepared them 
for job placements with multiple companies. 
We have also been honored to hire 34 
graduates as Fifth Third team members. Last 
year marked our 12th consecutive year hosting 
the program’s single largest fundraiser, the 
Tee-Off for Project SEARCH golf tournament, 
which raised over $155,000. Since 2005, we 
have raised more than $1.3 million.
In addition, we sponsored the 37th annual 
Veterans Wheelchair Games in Cincinnati. 
The Wheelchair Games are a rehabilitation 
and sports program empowering veterans 
with spinal cord injuries, multiple sclerosis, 
amputations and other neurological injuries 
to live more active and healthy lives through 
wheelchair sports and recreation. About 600 
veteran athletes competed. 
Our Company has earned significant 
recognition for our work with and for 
individuals with disabilities, including the 
2017 Disability Matters “Employer of Choice 
Award,” and we understand that the work 
we do with individuals with disabilities 
is its own reward. “There is nothing more 
rewarding than the work we do with Project Project SEARCH taught me how 
to prepare for a job. Since I was 
hired, I have gained organizational 
skills and I like being a part of a 
team. My favorite thing about my 
job is getting all of the work done 
and staying on task. I love my job 
at Fifth Third.
Edie Bahlman,  
Project SEARCH graduate and Fifth Third employee
SEARCH and other initiatives for individuals with disabilities,” said Mitch Morgan, vice president 
and Fifth Third’s inclusion and diversity manager. “Improving lives of the people we serve isn’t 
just about financial services or customer experience—it’s about creating opportunities for growth, 
development and enabling our friends and neighbors to reach their full potential.” Impact Story
Supplier Diversity
Be Respectful & Inclusive
36   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportWe are proud of the progress of our supplier diversity spend in 
2017, but even more important were the relationships we built with 
new diverse suppliers. It is extremely rewarding to collaborate with 
minority-, women-, and veteran-owned companies whose talent 
and expertise boost our business.
Stephanie Smith,  
Director of Supplier DiversityWe believe that diverse perspectives, ideas and 
thinking make us a stronger bank and, more, we 
recognize that diverse suppliers are a critical part 
of the health and vitality of our communities, our 
customers and the overall economy. In 2017, our total 
supplier diversity spend was $50.4 million. Year-
over-year growth from 2016 to 2017 was a significant 
174 percent. 
In January 2017, we selected Empower, one of the 
nation’s largest independent media agencies, as our 
media agency of record. That means that Empower is 
leading media planning and buying efforts for Fifth 
Third, including social media and content marketing. 
Empower is a women-owned agency. 
We also held our third annual Supplier Diversity Summit  
in our headquarters city of Cincinnati last year. The event is designed to help women-, minority- and veteran-
owned companies do more business with Fifth Third.Nearly 170 people attended the event, with 42 diverse 
companies represented from our 10-state footprint. Tillie 
Hildalgo Lima, president & CEO of Best Upon Request 
Corporate Inc. (BEST), a Hispanic- and women-owned 
business, and co-creator of the Maternity Concierge, 
was one of the presenters at the Summit.
“The maternity concierge program is incredible,” said 
Hidalgo Lima. “The leadership that was required to 
implement this service was bold. The program ultimately 
helps women succeed at home and at work and creates 
a pipeline for women to grow their careers at Fifth Third 
Bank. We’re honored to be a part of that strategy.”
The Maternity Concierge is an example of how supplier 
diversity serves as an engine for innovation and growth. 
In acknowledgment of our commitment to partnering 
with women-owned businesses, we were awarded 
the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 
(WBENC) America’s Top Corporations Bronze Award. Stephanie Smith, director of Supplier Diversity, interacts at the Supplier Diversity Summit.
Supplier Diversity Success Stories
HP ENERGY (MBE)
Middletown, Ohio-based HP Energy, co-founded by 
President Steve Hightower, consulted with Fifth Third on 
a project to install LED lighting across our facilities. The 
project is expected to cut our energy costs by $650,000 per year and our energy consumption by 50 percent. 
HP Energy provided strategic advice to identify our most 
valuable energy savings opportunities, sources for lighting, and how to obtain an industry-leading manufacturer’s 
warranty and energy rebate.
BEST UPON REQUEST (WMBE)
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Best Upon Request 
provides on-site concierge services to Fifth Third em-
ployees. This unique benefit aligns with our strategies to 
attract and retain top talent and foster a positive work environment. Employees can request help with every -
thing from grocery shopping to dry cleaning and, most recently with the new Maternity Concierge, even plan for the arrival of a new child.
Vision
We desire to be the One Bank people most 
value and trust. In support of that vision and 
our commitment to communities, our Supplier 
Diversity Program strives to: 
• Increase spend with diverse suppliers , 
• Increase our number of diverse suppliers ,  
• Increase diverse supplier representation  
in challenging spend categories.
What We Buy
We purchase billions of dollars in goods and services each year. Our key areas of 
opportunity include marketing, facilities 
management services, IT software and hardware, fintech and professional services such as legal services.Our Partnerships
• National Minority Supplier Development Council (nmsdc.org).
• U.S. Small Business Administration  (sba.gov).
• U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs  (va.gov).
• Women’s Business Enterprise National  Council (wbenc.org).Supplier Diversity At-a-Glance
Be Respectful & Inclusive   37Impact Story
Take Accountability: Caring for the Planet
Take 
Accountability: Caring for the Planet
BY THE NUMBERS
5
sustainability 
goals set28
LEED-certified 
spaces100 %
renewable power 
contracted
38   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportIn June 2017, Fifth Third committed to being an 
environmental sustainability leader by setting 
five bold goals, including achieving 100 percent 
renewable power by 2022. Just six months later, 
we signed a long-term power purchase agreement 
that will enable us to achieve our 100 percent 
goal four years ahead of schedule. That’s bold 
leadership that will benefit the environment and 
communities we serve.
Scott Hassell,  
Director, Environmental Sustainability, Vice President
EPA Green 
Power PartnerTake Accountability: Caring for the Planet   39Five Bold Sustainability Goals
We announced five operational sustainability goals in 2017 that will 
promote a healthy and sustainable environment and help protect 
the planet for future generations. The identification and public 
statement of goals is our way of formalizing and accelerating our 
environmental sustainability efforts.
“I applaud Fifth Third Bancorp for establishing environmental 
sustainability goals that will help strengthen our communities,” said 
Kristin Weiss, executive director of Green Umbrella, the leading 
alliance working to maximize the environmental sustainability 
of Greater Cincinnati. “Public commitments are important and 
demonstrate Fifth Third’s willingness to be transparent, report its 
progress and be held accountable. This is the kind of leadership that 
will bring sustainable, positive change.”
Progress
We made significant progress* toward the goals we made public in 2017, and are 
pleased to report on that progress relative to our 2014 baseline year. 
19%reduction in energy use
29%reduction in greenhouse gas emissions  
10%decline in water consumption 
30%
100 %renewable energy purchased in the form of renewable 
energy credits (RECs)
renewable energy contract signed
*Energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water consumption calculations are based on owned or ground-leased buildings where we receive a utility bill. GHG emissions are calculated using national 
average emissions factors. Energy use and water use are calculated per square foot. Complete energy consumption and GHG emissions are reported in our annual submissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project. 
We will begin reporting on landfill waste in 2018.  Fifth Third committed to 
the following operational 
sustainability goals by 
2022:
• Reduce energy use by  
25 percent.
• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent.
• Reduce landfill waste by  
20 percent.
• Reduce water usage by  
20 percent.
• Purchase 100 percent  renewable energy.
Take Accountability: Caring for the Planet
40   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportIn 2017, Fifth Third signed a contract  
to achieve 100% solar power . 
That’s about 194,000 megawatt hours  of clean energy per year.
That’s the same as: 100 % 
renewable energy
powering
22,000
homesgrowing
4 million
seeds for 10 yearsswitching to nearly
5 million
LED lightbulbs
eliminating
144,000 mt*  
of gas emissionsavoiding
800  
railcars of coalreducing
31,000   
passenger vehicles
*metric tonsTake Accountability: Caring for the Planet   41We also made tremendous progress toward achieving 
our 100 percent green power goal. In December, we 
signed a virtual power purchase agreement with 
SunEnergy1 to purchase power from a new solar 
facility that they will build and operate in Hertford 
County, North Carolina.  This agreement made us the 
first Fortune 500 Company and first bank to announce a new project that will allow us to achieve 100 percent 
renewable power. The project is expected to be 
complete in 2018, which will allow us to meet our bold goal four years earlier than anticipated. 
Renewable Energy Finance
In addition to purchasing renewable power, we are 
proud to finance new renewable energy projects. 
In October 2017, Fifth Third financing helped bring 
the NC92 utility solar power project to commercial 
operation, generating more than 92 MW of clean 
energy for thousands of residences across Cumberland 
County, North Carolina.
This project is part of a broader relationship between 
Fifth Third and DEPCOM Power, an Arizona-based 
utility solar power development, engineering, 
construction, operations and maintenance firm. Fifth 
Third has provided DEPCOM with a working capital 
revolver, a construction revolver, and letters of credit to 
support the development and construction of projects 
in multiple states across the U.S.
The utility-solar power industry 
is changing the American 
energy grid, generating clean, 
affordable energy. It’s forward- 
thinking investment companies 
like Fifth Third Bank that are 
helping power the utility solar 
power technology evolution and 
supporting the future for an 
energy independent America.
Jim Lamon,  
Chief Executive Officer, DEPCOM Power
Take Accountability: Caring for the Planet
We began OurWorkplace as a pilot in Detroit in 2015 and it 
continues to improve as we renovate offices nation-wide. 
OurWorkplace renovations are people-centric workplaces 
with a variety of formal and informal collaborative 
team areas. Options include workbenches, couches, 
presentation zones, cafes, huddle and focus rooms, as well 
as traditional offices. 
By providing employees with many workspaces, people 
will move around during the day and choose the 
environment that best supports a given task. This creates 
200 different work points in an area that previously 
provided about 80 traditional desks and offices. 
OurWorkplace’s effective space planning and efficient LED 
lighting also consumes less energy. Additional benefits 
include enhanced recycling infrastructure, sit-stand and 
treadmill desks, dual monitors to reduce printing, filtered 
water and reusable glasses and mugs. 
OurWorkplace creates 
happier, more productive 
employees while helping 
Fifth Third become a 
more environmentally 
sustainable company.
42   Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 CSR ReportOurWorkplace Works for Employees  
and the Planet 
Fifth Third’s OurWorkplace model is re-engineering the workday from the ground up 
by letting our employees curate their day based on what best supports innovation, 
collaboration and providing our customers with the best advice and services. Impact StoryEnvironmental Risk Governance 
Take Accountability: Caring for the Planet   43Disclosure and transparency help our Company 
and our stakeholders better understand, prepare 
for and manage climate change-related risks and 
opportunities. For this reason, we continue to 
participate in the annual Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) reporting process that covers our emissions 
and our approach to managing the risks and 
opportunities related to climate change. 
For the fifth year in a row, we had our Scope 1, Scope 2 
and some components of our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions independently verified to ensure the integrity 
of our data collection process and calculations. Based 
on our 2016 emissions and management approach, we 
received a CDP score of “C.”In 2017 we enhanced our approach to managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities by launching a 
new Corporate Responsibility & Reputation Committee 
which has a broad scope, including climate change. The 
committee includes representatives from multiple lines 
of business and corporate functions and reports to the 
Enterprise Risk Management Committee. In turn, that 
group reports to the Risk and Compliance Committee 
of the Board of Directors.
In 2017, we also convened an internal working group to 
review the work of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures and provide recommendations. 
Topics the working group will explore in 2018 include 
increasing the transparency of our governance process 
for environmental risks, leveraging existing practices 
and procedures to enhance our environmental risk 
management framework, and reviewing our portfolio for 
exposure to carbon-intensive and renewable sectors. 
We hope this report has defined, articulated and 
communicated our commitment to good corporate citizenship. We invite all of our customers, communities, employees and shareholders to hold us accountable and to continue engaging with us in our mission to improve lives and the well-being of our communities. We are striving everyday to keep our customers at the center of everything we do and to do well by doing good.  
Greg D. Carmichael
Chairman, President & CEO, Fifth Third Bancorp
Contact Us
Visit 53.com/customer-service  for a full list 
of contact numbers for specific inquiries.
Visit 53.com/csrreport  to read the  
2017 Fifth Third Bancorp Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report online.
Customer Inquiries:  800-972-3030
Business Inquiries:  877-534-2264
Commercial Inquiries:  866-475-0729
Investor Relations: 866-670-0468 
Community Inquiries: 53.com/commitment
Media Inquiries: 53.com/media-center  
or 513-534-NEWS
You can also find us online:
Printed on recycled paper. 
Member FDIC.  Equal Housing Lender.Fifth Third Bank 
@fifththird Fifth Third Bank
