 Environmental, 
Social and Governance Report 
2021    
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  2021 ESG Report 
Contents 
Section I: Introduction Section II: Economic 
4 A Message from Greg Carmichael and 18 Corporate and Economic Profle 
Tim Spence 19 Sustainable Financial Performance and 
6 A Message from the Board of the Directors Business Strategy 
8  About This Report 20 Markets Served 
9  Our Approach to Sustainability 21 Responsible Banking 
11  United Nations Sustainable Development 25 Serving Customers 
Goals 26 Accelerating Racial Equality, Equity and 
12 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Inclusion 
Assessment 
13 ESG Priorities and Performance Metrics 
16 Awards and Accolades Section III: Environment 
33 Climate Strategy 
34 Transition to a Sustainable Future 
41 Climate Risk Management 
44 Operational Sustainability 
49 Environmental Data 
Section IV: Social 
53 Inclusion & Diversity 
61 Employees 
70 Communities 
• Financial and Economic Inclusion 
• Financial Education, Access and Stability 
• Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy Section V: Governance 
82 Corporate Governance 
85 Business Ethics 
87 Public Policy and Government Relations 
88 Enterprise Risk Management 
90 Customer Privacy and Information Security 
93 Third-Party Management 
94 Appendix and Contact Details 
2 Contents Introduction Economic Enviro nment Social Governanc e  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction 
IN THIS SECTION 
4 A Message from Greg Carmichael and Tim Spence 
6 A Message from the Board of Directors 
8 About This Report 
9 Our Approach To Sustainability 
11 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
12 Stakeholder Engagement And Materiality Assessment 
13 ESG Priorities And Performance Metrics 
16 Awards & Accolades 
3 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance   
 
  
  2021 E
 SG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
A Message from Greg Carmichael 
and Tim Spence 
Thank you for your interest 
in Fifth Third’s 2021 
Environmental, Social and 
Governance Report. 
This is an exciting time for our Company. On 
July 5, 2022, Greg is retiring as CEO after many 
years of successful leadership of our Company 
and will remain Executive Chairman of the 
Board. Tim Spence, who has been a part of Fifth 
Third’s leadership team since 2015, will become 
chief executive ofcer in addition to his current 
role as president of Fifth Third Bancorp.  
It is an honor for us to address you jointly to 
discuss the progress we’ve made along our 
ESG journey over the past year with the goal to 
deliver sustainable value to all our stakeholders. 
Everything we do is rooted in our purpose: to 
improve the lives of our customers and the 
well-being of our communities. We activate 
our purpose everyday through our core values 
and vision to be the one bank people most 
value and trust. Our ESG strategy is informed 
by our stakeholders—customers, employees, 
communities, investors and regulators—who we 
engage with regularly. We recently completed our second stakeholder materiality assessment 
with oversight from an industry-leading 
third party. You can read the results of that 
assessment on page 12 . 
Delivering on our commitment to ESG 
excellence is key to our ability to deliver 
long-term sustainable value to all we serve. 
To that end, we aligned ESG performance 
to compensation in 2022 and tied it to the execution of our ESG priorities. These 
priorities include addressing climate change, promoting inclusion and diversity, delivering 
on our commitment to employees, keeping the customer at the center and strengthening our communities. You can read more about the 
key metrics associated with these priorities on 
pages 13-15 . 
Delivering on our 
commitment to ESG 
excellence is key to our 
ability to deliver long -
term sustainable value to 
all we serve. We recognize that 
climate change is 
bigger than us and 
that the fnancial 
sector has an 
important role to 
play in addressing 
it. In February, 
we published 
our second 
TCFD Report, 
which details our 
climate strategy 
and eforts. In May, we completed the 
acquisition of Dividend Finance, a national 
point-of-sale consumer lender focused on the rapidly growing solar and sustainable home 
improvement markets. This strategic acquisition 
adds residential fnancial services to our ability 
to lead the transition to a sustainable and 
inclusive future. Just recently, we achieved 
our $8 billion renewable fnance goal, more 
than two years earlier than our 2025 goal. We 
are committed to continuing our leadership in 
sustainability through our new 10-year target 
to provide $100 billion in environmental and 
social fnancing by the end of 2030. We also achieved four out of fve of our bold 
2017 operati
onal sustainability goals ahead 
of schedule—and then pushed ourselves 
further, including a new 2030 goal to reduce 
our location-based greenhouse gas emissions 
by 75%. For 2021, we maintained carbon 
neutrality and expanded our reporting for 
Scope 3 emissions. By joining the Partnership 
for Carbon Accounting Financials in March 2021, 
we committed to measuring and reporting our 
Scope 3 fnanced emissions, enabling the Bank 
to continue our transparency and develop a 
net-zero aligned strategy. These eforts and 
others led to Fifth Third again receiving an 
A- leadership score from CDP for the third 
consecutive year. 
CONTINUED 4 
Contents Introduction Economic Enviro nment Social Governance  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
A Message from Greg Carmichael and Tim Spence (cont.) 
Accelerating inclusion and diversity is another 
top ESG priority for Fifth Third, as evidenced by 
our being named a Best Employer for Diversity 
by Forbes. We have made signifcant progress 
on our three-year, $2.8 billion Accelerating 
Racial Equality, Equity and Inclusion initiative 
by delivering over $1.3 billion, 46% of the 
plan, by year end 2021. We also made progress 
on our six bold inclusion and diversity goals 
and have published our baseline for reporting 
progress. These include ensuring the diversity 
of our workforce refects the markets we serve 
and ensuring the leadership positions refect the 
overall workforce. In 2021, our tier one diverse 
supplier spend was $88.4 million, an increase of 
17% over 2020, and about 9% of net addressable 
spend. See page 58  for these details. 
Our employees are our greatest asset and we 
invested over $2.5 billion in total rewards 
for our employees last year. We paid special 
COVID-19 bonuses to 7,500 employees, while 
providing on-site vaccinations, fexible work 
arrangements, additional paid time of and sick time as well as expanded back-up family 
care and support. We also announced a special 
equity award for eligible employees. 
In April 2022, we announced our planned 
increase in our minimum wage to $20 per 
hour, a frst among our peers. Concurrently, we 
announced a wage adjustment for our frst four 
job levels that are above the Bank’s new minimum 
wage. In total, more than 40% of our workforce will receive a midyear compensation increase. 
Under Greg’s leadership, we have been proud to 
lead in increasing our employees’ wages. We led 
the industry in 2018 by increasing our minimum 
wage $15 from $12 and we were among the frst 
to increase to $18. Our investment in employees 
led to Fifth Third ranking in the top quartile 
versus peers for employee retention in a 
leading industry survey. 
Our customers truly are the center of everything 
we do, and we continually invest in our ability 
to diferentiate our brand and deliver innovative 
products and services. During the pandemic, we 
Strong banks need strong communities— 
strengthening them is foundational to who 
we are as a Bank, and we are committed to 
being the catalyst for fundamental change. kept 99% of our branches open and made nearly 
13 million outreach calls to customers to ofer 
assistance.  We launched our award-winning 
Fifth Third Momentum® Banking in 2021, an 
unparalleled new approach to banking  that 
combines the best of fntech innovation with the 
strength, access and human touch of a traditional 
bank. Our Express Banking account earned the 
Bank On certifcation from the Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund for safe and afordable 
accounts. Earlier this month, we eliminated all 
non-sufcient fund (NSF) fees for all consumer 
accounts. This was part of our deliberate multi-
year strategy to reduce punitive consumer fees. 
We have the lowest revenue concentration 
in punitive fees among peers with signifcant 
consumer operations. 
Strong banks need strong communities— 
strengthening them is foundational to who we 
are as a Bank, and we are committed to being 
the catalyst for fundamental change. Our $180 
million Fifth Third Empowering Black Futures 
Neighborhood Investment Program  is key in 
that. Through this program, which is a part of 
our $2.8 billion AREEI initiative, we are infusing 
$20 million into each of the nine minority 
communities and working with community 
partners to execute tailored economic mobility plans in each. 
In addition, we provided $1.3 billion in community 
development lending and investments last year, $41 million in charitable donations with $6 million 
in employee giving, and we provided 4.6 million meals to fght hunger across our nation as part 
of our Fifth Third D
ay celebrations in May. In 
support of our eforts, our employees logged 
nearly 100,000 hours of community service, many of which were dedicated to our fnancial 
education programs, which have now helped 
nearly 3 million people since 2004. 
Our Company also responded when war 
broke out this year in Ukraine. The Fifth Third 
Foundation made a $100,000 donation to the 
American Red Cross for humanitarian relief 
eforts, and our generous employees personally 
donated nearly $39,000 to support individuals in 
the war-ravaged country. 
Thank you for your continued support of our 
Company. We are committed to continued 
transparency and consistent progress in 
executing our ESG priorities . We are both 
excited about the future at Fifth Third and 
believe this will be our decade to accomplish 
even greater things. 
Sincerely, 
Greg D. Carmichael 
Tim N. Spence 
5 Contents Introduction Ec onomic Environme nt Social Governance  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    INTRODUCTION 
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
A Message from the Board of Directors 
On behalf of 
the Board of Directors, I’m pleased to share that 2021 marked 
another year of signifcant ESG progress at Fifth Third. The Board and its committees oversaw various facets of Fifth Third’s ESG program and are pleased with the Bank’s achievements across the ESG spectrum. 
While ultimate oversight of ESG rests with the 
full Board of Directors, each of the Board’s six committees oversee important features of the Bank’s ESG program. The Nominating and Corporate Governance (NCG) Committee is the Board’s front line on ESG matters and strategy. In 2021, management provided an ESG update at each of its meetings. The committee heard from the chief inclusion and diversity ofcer on progress made against the Bank’s six bold inclusion and diversity goals, discussed new operational sustainability targets, reviewed trends and emerging topics such as fnancial institutions’ plans to measure and disclose clients’ carbon emissions, and engaged in discussions on specifc items like a focused session on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The consistent time allocated to ESG provided the directors a forum to give regular guidance, counsel and challenge to management on matters relevant to ESG. The NCG Committee also continues to oversee Fifth Third’s governance practices, focusing on maintaining robust and modern governance structures and sustaining a diverse demographic of directors with expertise aligned to our business strategy. 
As the committee charged with overseeing 
risks related to Fifth Third’s environmental and social risk management activities, the Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC) likewise played a 
prominent role in the Bank’s ESG program. The RCC had multiple discussions regarding climate change, including the maturation of the Bank’s climate risk program with Fifth Third’s climate risk ofcer. The committee also had substantive discussions on fair lending, the Community Reinvestment Act and anti-money laundering. In fact, the Committee discussed risks associated with climate change at multiple meetings during the year, including during a joint meeting with the Finance Committee . 
As a Board, we are committed to helping Fifth Third 
maintain its leadership in ESG amongst its peers. 
In 2021, the Human Capital and Compensation Committee (HCCC)  worked with management 
and the committee’s independent compensation consultant to analyze and evaluate the proper approach and timing for including ESG into Fifth Third’s annual variable compensation program. The committee focused on structuring an ESG compensation component to ensure the Bank’s employees understood and could impact the goals, thereby providing the appropriate incentive for employees to take action to achieve Fifth Third’s top ESG priorities. The HCCC ultimately approved the inclusion of an ESG modifer in the annual variable compensation program for 2022.  
The Audit Committee  served the important 
ESG-related function of exercising oversight of 
the Bank’s policies, procedures and controls to ensure accountability and transparency. The Committee oversaw the review of the Fifth Third’s fnancial statements and the exercise of the Company’s audit functions. In addition, the committee received regular reports from 
CONTINUED 6  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
     
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
     —Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
FEATURE 
A Conversation with Fifth Third Director  
Thomas H. Harvey 
2021 ESG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
A Message from the Board of Directors (cont.) 
Nicholas K. Akins 
Lead Independent Director and organizational defense; key compliance, 
legal and ethics matters and trends; and the strategic priorities of Fifth Third’s $2.8 billion Accelerating Racial Equality, Equity and Inclusion program, including its $180 million Fifth Third Empowerithe chief ethics ofcer on its Ethics program, inclu
ng Blac k F
utures 
Neighborhood Investment Program. At our February 2022 meeting, the Board focused on the Bank’s climate risk program and key initiatives, which included a presentation from the Ceres Company Network on physical and transition climate risks. 
As a Board, we are very proud of the ESG progre
ss that the Bank has made and all of us 
are committed to helping Fifth Third maintain its leadership in ESG amongst its peers. We look forward to overseeing and helping to facilitate the further signifcant progress on the Bank’s ESG jourding up d
ates about calls received on Fifth 
Third’s EthicsLine. 
The Technology Committee  oversees Fifth 
Third’s information security and privacy 
programs. In 2021, the committee held sessions with the chief technology ofcer and chief information security ofcer to ensure the Bank’s approach to safeguarding customer data and other sensitive information was adequate, appropriate and refects best practices in order to stay ahead of emerging cyber threats. Fifth Third conducted a detailed, full-day cyber war game simulation involving dozens of members of management last year. Multiple members of the Technology committee, including its chair, participated directly as players in the simulation, ensuring preparation and alignment from the Board and throughout the Company.         
The full Board of Directors provides oversight 
of all Fifth Third’s ESG activities and approves the Bank’s annual ESG priorities. At meetings of the Board, the NCG committee chair provided a detailed report on ESG matters. In June 2021, the Board received a deep dive presentation on Fifth Third’s ESG program that included progress made against the Bank’s top ESG priorities, feedback from investors on ESG matters, proposed expanded disclosure in the ESG Report, and ESG trends among peer banks and the industry. The Board also reviewed reports on progress of Fifth Third’s Executive Diversity Leadership Council; cybersecurity ney for t h
e beneft of all of 
our stakeholders. 
Sincerely, Hal Harvey is chairman of the Nominating 
and Co r
porate Governance Committee of 
the Fifth Third Bancorp Board of Directors. He recently sat for a conversation about environmental, social and governance matters. 
Why do you feel it is important for 
businesses, and banks in particular, to have a robust ESG strategy? 
Banks are deeply enmeshed in the 
communities they serve and it is essential that they be exemplary members of those communities. Fifth Third takes this responsibility seriously. We need to demonstrate, through all our operations, our dedication to sustainability and inclusivity in all the towns and cities we serve. It is both a responsibility and a privilege to do so. 
What do you think is Fifth Third’s 
greatest strength in the area of ESG? 
I am proud that we have 99 percent pay 
equity, combined with many opportunities 
HAL HARVEY CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: 
• CEO of Energy Innovation: Policy and 
Technology, LLC. 
• Managing Partner and Principal Owner, Ajax, LLC. 
• Former Chair of the Board of MB Financial, Inc. 
• Former CEO of ClimateWorks Foundation. 
• Former Environmental Program Director of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. 
• Former President of Energy Foundation. for employees to advance their careers; that 
we are making serious investments in diverse communities; and that we have raised the minimum wage to $20 per hour. But, today, I have to say that our $8 billion in solar loans really sets us apart. This deployment helps with grid stability, lower prices and great jobs along with a cleaner environment. We are a leader in this feld, and will be doing much more in the years ahead. 
How does your experience in both 
fnancial services and sustainability inform and guide your leadership of the NCG Committee?  
I have always felt that doing the right thing 
will be rewarded in the marketplace. Our NCG Committee is driven by that concept. We need to be a successful bank in order to build stronger communities, and the reverse is also true. My own experience in both realms has taught me that ESG is not about sacrifce but rather about opportunity. 
KEY QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE: 
• 25 years of service in fnancial services industry. 
• Diverse knowledge and experience with the 
emergence and growth of technology in the banking industry. 
• Extensive knowledge and experience with renewable energy, ESG and climate matters. 
7  
 
2021 ESG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
About This Report 
Fifth Third Supports Key Sustainability Initiatives 
Refer to our Investor Relations  webpage for our SASB, GRI, SCM and UN Global Compact 
indices, as well as our latest TCFD Report. Fifth Third’s 2021 ESG report 
aims to provide transparency 
into how we activate our 
purpose: to improve the lives 
of our customers and the well -
being of our communities. 
Since our 2019 ESG report three years ago, 
we have been reporting in accordance with 
the SASB Standards sustainable industry 
classifcation system for Commercial Banks, 
Consumer Finance and Mortgage Finance. In 
addition, we have been reporting on Global 
Reporting Initiative Standards’ core option, 
which includes general disclosures as well as 
topic-specifc disclosures relevant to Fifth Third. 
In February, we published our second TCFD 
Report to continue disclosing our progress in 
our climate journey.  We also benchmark our 
strategy against the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals. In our 2020 ESG Report, 
we expanded reporting to include the 
Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics recommended 
by the World Economic Forum. In 2022, Fifth 
Third signed on to the UN Global Compact, a 
voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments 
to implement universal sustainability principles 
and take steps to support UN goals. Fifth Third is committed to accuracy and 
transparency in this report.  The ESG data 
governance process uses the three lines 
of defense methodology (see page 89 ) for 
accountability and managing risks. This 
includes certifcations from the content 
contributors who constitute the frst line of 
defense. The report is reviewed by legal and 
second line of defense functions and also is 
subject to review as part of the Company’s 
audit program (third line of defense). The 
report is reviewed and overseen through 
governance committees, including the 
ESG Disclosure Council, ESG Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee and the Board of Directors. Data in 
this report covers Jan. 1 through Dec. 31, 2021, 
unless otherwise noted, and the narrative may 
include updates in 2022, where applicable. 
The goals discussed in this report are 
aspirational. While we are committed to achieving them, we cannot guarantee or 
promise that these goals will be met. Statistics 
and metrics in these disclosures include 
estimates and may be based on assumptions. 
Further, some of the fgures in this report may 
be unaudited. This report uses certain terms, 
including “material” topics, to refect the issues 
of greatest importance to Fifth Third and our 
stakeholders. Used in this context, these terms 
are distinct from and should not be confused Contents 
with the terms “material” and “materiality” as 
defned by or construed in accordance with 
the securities laws or as used in the context of 
fnancial statements and reporting. 
This report is for general informational purposes 
only and does not constitute an ofer or sale of any securities issued by Fifth Third Bancorp. 
All such ofers and sales shall be made only 
pursuant to an efective registration statement 
fled by Fifth Third Bancorp with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and a current 
prospectus. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference 
in any fling under the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, except as 
shall be expressly set forth by specifc reference. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
All information in this report is current as of the 
date of publication. We undertake no obligation 
to update the information in this report or 
otherwise notify you in the event that any views, opinions or facts stated in this report change or 
subsequently become inaccurate. 
This report is not comprehensive and contains 
only voluntary disclosures on important ESG 
topics. For that reason, this report should 
be read in conjunction with our 2021 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2022 (particularly the “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk 
Factors” sections of both flings) and 2022 Proxy 
Statement, all of which can be found on our 
Investor Relations website. 
8  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
        
    
   
 -2021 ESG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
Our Approach to 
Sustainability 
Our approach to 
corporate sustainability 
and ESG is focused 
on doing well by 
doing good. 
We are focused on generating 
long-term sustainable value  for our 
stakeholders, including shareholders, 
customers, employees, communities 
and regulators. This focus is aligned 
with our Vision and guided by our Core 
Values and Strategic Actions. 
Our commitment to sustainability is 
integrated across our Company and 
aligned to our strategic priorities. 
In March, Fifth Third elevated Kala 
Gibson, executive vice president and chief corporate responsibility ofcer, with additional 
oversight of sustainability, inclusion and diversity. A sustainability ofce was established within 
the Corporate Responsibility team to lead our ESG reporting and governance and our climate 
strategy that was previously led by investor relations. The sustainability ofce is led by the chief 
sustainability ofcer, a new position, with support from across the Company and with oversight 
from the Board of Directors. 
The ESG Committee, established in 2020, continues to provide oversight of the Bank’s 
ESG strategy. GENERATING 
SUSTAINABLE VALUE GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC 
ENVIRONMENT 
SOCIAL Contents Introduction 
Fifth Third’s Corporate Responsibility Ofce 
Board of Directors 
Tim Spence 
President & CEO* 
Kala Gibson 
Chief Corporate 
Responsibility Ofcer 
Mike Faillo 
Chief 
Sustainability 
Ofcer Keith 
Burgess 
Group Head 
of Community 
Development Jada 
Grandy Mock 
Chief Community 
Impact Banking 
Ofcer 
• Enterprise Risk Management 
• Enterprise Workplace Services 
• Finance 
• Human Capital • Legal 
• Lines of Business 
• Marketing 
• Technology & Information Security Support Partners Economic Environment Social Governance 
Stephanie 
Smith 
Chief Inclusion & 
Diversity Ofcer Stefanie 
Steward 
Young 
Chief Social 
Responsibility 
Ofcer 
*Efective July 5, 2022. CONTINUED 9  Environment Social Governance Introduction Contents Economic  
Our Core Values  guide us as we work with customers, communities and each other:
WORK AS ONE BANK 
Proactively collaborate to achieve 
shared goals. TAKE ACCOUNTABILITY 
Own what you do. Speak up if something 
feels wrong, looks wrong, or is wrong. BE RESPECTFUL & INCLUSIVE 
Respect diversity. Fully integrate ideas from 
varying perspectives. ACT WITH INTEGRITY 
Be honest. Be fair. Do the right thing. 
Led by our Core Values, our Strategic Actions  help us make decisions among competing demands,
test the soundness of our actions and set boundaries within which we must operate. 2021 ESG Report 
INTRO DUCTION 
Our Purpose 
To improve the lives of customers and the well-being 
of co mmunities. 
Our V ision 
To be the one bank people most value and trust. 
BUILD A STRONGER COMMUNITY 
Efect positive change. Empower the 
underserved. Be actively engaged. PROVIDE BETTER SOLUTIONS 
Drive product and service innovation. 
Provide a world -class customer experience, 
every single time. STRIVE FOR OPERATIONAL EXCELLENC
Do quality work. Be efcient. Perform 
through the cycle. E CONTINUOUSLY MANAGE RISK 
Challenge ideas. Test soundness.  
Promptly escalate issues. 
10 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
INTRODUCTION 
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals 
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve 
the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere. The 17 goals were adopted by all UN member states in 2015 as part of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which set out a 15-year plan to achieve the goals. 
At Fifth Third, we believe we have a role to play in furthering all 17 UN goals. However, 12 align especially well with our ESG 
priorities, and we have formulated strategies and actions to make progress on them:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fifth Third’s Aligned Sustainable 
Development Goals 
No Poverty 
Pages 70-80 
Zero Hunger 
Page 80 
Good Health and Well-Being 
Pages 69  | 74 
Quality Education 
Pages 63  | 64  | 69 | 76 | 77 
Gender Equality 
Pages 21  | 31 | 53-60  | 65 | 86 
Clean Water and Sanitation 
Pages 40  | 44  | 48 
Afordable and Clean Energy 
Pages 33-37  | 47 
Decent Work and Economic Growth 
Pages 65-67  | 71-72  | 76-77 
Reduced Inequalities 
Pages 21  | 26-31  | 53-60  | 71 | 72 | 86 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Page 36 
Climate Action 
Page 33 
Partnerships for the Goals 
Pages 4 | 8 | 11 
11  
  
  
  
 
  
  -2021 ESG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality Assessment 
In early 2020, Fifth Third completed our frst stakeholder material assessment to determine 
which ESG topics are most material to our Company. Based on the feedback we received from a survey and through discussions with executive leaders, we evaluated and prioritized the ESG topics below according to their relative degree of importance in our 2019 ESG Report. We used the results of our materiality assessment to guide our ESG disclosures and reporting. In early 2022, Fifth Third engaged a third party to facilitate an updated stakeholder materiality assessment through key stakeholder and company interviews and surveys. 
Each of the ESG topics below are important to Fifth Third and support our 
objective of delivering sustainable fnancial performance. 
Priority to Stakeholders 
HIGH HIGHEST Corporate citizenship & 
fnancial inclusion 
Third party management 
Public policy & 
government relations Customer privacy & 
information security 
Environmental 
sustainability 
Enterprise risk management 
& corporate governance Business ethics & 
responsible banking 
Inclusion & diversity 
Employee engagement
& development 
HIGH HIGHEST 
Priority to Fifth Third Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Other Methods of Regular Stakeholder Engagement 
Methods of Engagement 
Shareholders 
Customers 
Employees 
Communities 
Regulators Annual shareholder meeting, quarterly earnings calls, investor conferences 
and presentations, meetings with investor relations team and executive 
management, SEC flings and dedicated investor relations website. 
Focus groups, conversations through branch interactions and phone calls, 
satisfaction surveys, social media interactions, customer helplines and 
corporate website. 
Engagement survey, executive leadership communications, learning 
programs, business resource groups and inclusion councils, performance 
and development initiatives and corporate landing page. 
Community Advisory Forum (national and groups in Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, 
Florida and North Carolina), community needs survey and assessments, 
fnancial education and outreach programs, philanthropic investments, 
civic memberships, volunteerism and nonproft board engagement, and 
corporate website. 
Exams, continuous monitoring and other meetings with senior 
management, interactions through regulatory afairs and government 
afairs teams, and regulator-sponsored events and initiatives. 
12 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
INTRODUCTION 
ESG Priorities and Performance Metrics 
Through stakeholder engagement and discussions with our senior executive leadership team, the ESG Committee identifed and the Board of Directors 
approved fve ESG priorities to focus on in 2022 and beyond. These priorities have been incorporated in senior executive goal-planning as well as the 2022 variable compensation plan for executives and employees. The metrics below represent key data points of these priorities, which are discussed in further detail through this report. 
Fifth Third’s fve ESG priorities are: addressing climate change, promoting inclusion and diversity, delivering on our commitment to employees, keeping the 
customer at the center, and strengthening our communities. The chart on the following pages shows the performance metrics we are tracking and our progress. 
ESG Priority Performance Metric Unit of 
Measure 2020 2021 Goals References 
Addressing
Climate Change 
(See pages 49 51  for detailed 
environmental data) Renewable energy lending and capital raising since 20121 $ (billions) $5.4 $7.3 $8 billion by 2025 34 
Sustainability bonds underwritten for clients # 3 16 39 
Sustainability-linked loans # 1 27 38 
E&S Policy enhanced due diligence reviews # N/A2 53 43 
CDP Climate Change score Grade (A-F) A- A- 33 
Net GHG emissions from operations3,4 MTCO2e 0 0 45 
Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) GHG emissions reduction5 %  41%  50% 25% reduction by 2022 45 
Renewable power purchased % 100% 100% Purchase 100% by 2022 47 
Energy consumption5 MWh  23%  26% 25% reduction by 2022 47 
Water consumption reduction5 %  31%  26% 20% reduction by 2022 48 
Waste reduction5 %  14%  18% 20% reduction by 2022 48   
-
1Since 2012 
2Environmental & Social Policy implemented in September 2020, however, there were no new clients in E&S-sensitive sectors requiring enhanced due-diligence reviews. 
3Scope 1, Scope 2 and business travel under Scope 3 emissions. 
4Includes impact from purchased carbon ofsets and renewable energy credits. 
5Compared to 2014, except for waste which is compared to 2018. CONTINUED 13 2021 
 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
INTRODUCTION 
ESG Priority Performance Metric Unit of 
Measure 2020 2021 Goals References 
Promoting Inclusion 
and Diversity Board diversity6 % 40% 40% 82 
Women in workforce % 59% 59% 54 
Pay equity for women (adjusted) % 99% 99% 100% 65 
Persons of color in workforce % 27% 27% 54 
Pay equity for persons of color (adjusted) % 99% 99% 100% 65 
Supplier diversity % of addressable spending % 7.2% 8.6% 10% by 2025 58 
Employees enrolled in at least one BRG or inclusion council # 3,758 3,909 55 
Delivering our 
Commitment to 
Employees Full-time equivalent employees # 19,872 19,112 14 
Overall engagement score % N/A7 65% 62 
Employee Viewpoints Survey participation % N/A7 72% 62 
401(k) participation % 83% 84% 65 
Minimum wage $ per hour $18 $18 65 
Employee training hours # (thousands) 755 765 63-64 
Employee turnover % 13.9% 21.2% 65 
Acknowledgement of Code of Conduct % 99% 99% 21 
Compliance training completed % 99.7% 99.9% 63   
  
 
6In terms of race or gender. 
7The Bank did not conduct a survey in 2020 due to the pandemic and instead opted for two bank-wide pulse surveys focused on COVID to gain valuable feedback. CONTINUED 14  
 
  
15
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
INTRODUCTION 
ESG Priority Performance Metric Unit of 
Measure 2020 2021 Goals References 
Keeping the 
Customer at the Center Consumer household growth % 3.2% 3.3% 24 
Fifth Third Momentum® Banking checking accounts # (thousands) N/A 419 25 
Paychecks deposited early with Early Pay # (millions) N/A 6.8 22 
Overdraft fees avoided with Extra Time8 $ (millions) N/A $15.9 22 
Mobile banking users9 # (millions) 1.83 2.01 25 
Zelle transactions (total value) $ (billions) $2.9 $4.9 
Customer outreach calls # (millions) 11.7 12.7 5 
Number of complaints YoY change  17%  10% 24 
Strengthening Our
Communities Community Reinvestment Act rating Text Outstanding Outstanding 70 
Low- to moderate-income (LMI) mortgage lending $ (billions) $4.1 $7.2 
Loans outstanding qualifed to programs designed to promote small 
business and community development $ (billions) $0.033 $1.6 
Down payment assistance $ (millions) $5.8 $4.1 73 
Community development lending and investments $ (billions) $3.3 $1.3 26 
Philanthropic donations $ (billions) $29.8 $37.2 80 
Meals provided # (millions) 2.0 4.6 80 
People fnancially educated (since 2004) # (millions) 2.6 2.7 76-78 
Hours of community service # 51,727 97,058 79 
8Feature launched in June 2021. 
9Includes users who logged in at least once in the last 90 days. 15  2021 ESG Report 
INTRODUCTION 
Awards and Accolades 
Fifth Third’s eforts in ESG were recognized between Jan. 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022. We have received 
numerous honors over the past few years and are noted below by year of achievement. 
Ethisphere’s  
World’s Most 
Ethical Companies,  
2022, 2021, 2019.  
Fifth Third Bank was 
recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defning and advancing the  
standards of ethical business practices. Fifth Third was recognized for the third time in 2022. 
 
 
   Human Rights Campaign Foundation Corporate 
Equality Index, 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019. 
Minority Supplier Development Council  
Corporation of the Year, 2021. 
Bank Director’s Ranking Banking — 
Best Banks, 2022. 
Global Private Banking Innovation Awards, 2021. 
Global Finance —Best P r ivate Bank Award,  
2022, 2021, 2020. Forbes Best Employers for 
Dive rs
ity, 2022, 2021, 2019. 
Bloomberg Gender Equality Index,  
2022,  20
20, 2019. 
Disability Equality Index, 2021, 2020. 
Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption 100 Best  
Adop t
ion Friendly Workplaces, 2021, 2020, 2019. 
Diversability Best of the Best, 2021. 
Hamilton County, Ohio, R3Source  
Outs t
anding Partner of the Year, 2021. Bank Director’s Ranking Banking — 
Most I
nnovative Banks, 2022. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
16 Newsweek’s  America’s Most Responsible  
Companies, 2022, 2021, 2020. 
3BL Media Responsible CEO of the Year for 
Community Impact, Fifth Third Chairman & CEO 
Greg D. Carmichael, 2021. 
CDP Climate Leadership Score of A- ,  
2021, 2020, 2019.    
  
  
  
  
  2021 ESG Report Contents 
Economic 
IN THIS SECTION 
• 18 Corporate and Economic Profle 
• 19 Sustainable Financial Performance and Business Strategy 
• 20 Markets Served 
• 21 Responsible Banking 
• 25 Serving Customers 
• 26 Accelerating Racial Equality, Equity and Inclusion 
17 Introduc ti on Economic Environment Social Governance Contents Governance Environment Ec c Introduction Social
 2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
Corporate & Economic Profle 
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversifed fnancial services company headquartered in Cincinnati, 
Ohio, and is the indirect parent company of Fifth Third Bank, National Association, a federally 
chartered institution. 
Fifth Third, established in 1858, operates four main businesses—Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, 
Consumer Lending, and Wealth & Asset Management—and it is among the largest money managers in 
the Midwest. Investor information and press releases can be viewed at 53.com . Fifth Third’s common 
stock is traded on the NASDAQ® Global Select Market under the symbol “FITB.” 
Highlights* 
$2.8 billion 
2021 full year net income $211 billion 
in assets $554 billion
in assets under care** 
$65 billion 
in assets under management** $169 billion 
in deposits  BRANCH BANKING 
Branch Banking provides a full range of deposit and 
loan products to individuals and small businesses through 1,117 full -service banking centers. 
CONSUMER LENDING 
Consumer Lending includes residential mortgage,  
automobile and other indirect lending activities. 
COMMERCIAL BANKING  
Commercial Banking ofers credit, cash  
management and other fnancial services to large and middle market businesses , and government 
and professional customers. 
WEALTH & ASSET MANAGEMENT 
Wealth & Asset Management provides a full range of wealth management services for individuals, companies and not -for -proft organizations.  Wealt
& Asset Management is made up of three main businesses: FTS, an indirect wholly -owned subsidiary
of the Bancorp; Fifth Third Private Bank; and Fifth Third Institutional Services. h 
 
For additional details, refer to the 2021 Annual Report . 
*As of Dec. 31, 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
**Assets under management and assets under care include trust and brokerage assets 18 Contents Int roduction Social Economic onomi Environment Governance2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
Sustainable Financial 
Performance and Business 
Strategy 
Strategic planning is a critical aspect of Fifth Third’s ability to generate sustainable value. The 
outcomes of the planning process guide the long-term priorities and investment focus of the 
Company. The strategic planning process is designed to deliver a shared understanding of our 
vision, objectives, tactics and target outcomes, while maintaining risk management excellence 
and strong governance mechanisms. That shared understanding spans our Board of Directors 
and management and our front-line staf, enabling efective governance and clarity of purpose 
on our strategic priorities. 
Clear
ly defned strategic priorities, proactive balance-sheet management and ongoing discipline 
position us well for the future. Our key strategic priorities have not changed over the past several 
years, even through the pandemic. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Sustainable Financial Performance  
($ IN BILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) 
RETURN ON AVERAGE 
COMMON EQUITY SCALE: 15% 
12.813.9
14.5
13.1 
6.4 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 SCALE: $175.00BN 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 102.66
104.92
121.37
162.95 148.03 AVERAGE 
DEPOSITS  AVERAGE SCALE: $210.00BN ASSETS 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 194.23
206.32140.53
142.18
163.94  CASH DIVIDENDS PER 
COMMON SHARE 
1.08 
1.14 0.60
0.74
0.94 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 SCALE: 1.25 
8 .
08.9693
646.6
7
682.812.8 7
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 COMMON SHARES 
OUTSTANDING SCALE: 750.0  NET CHARGE-OFF 
RATIO 0% SCALE: 1.
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021  6 .42
.1 005
5 .32
330.0.0
Fifth Third’s Strategic Priorities 
Accelerate our digital transformation, 
driving increased use of digital channels, 
experience and engagement. Invest to drive organic growth and 
proftability,  deploying capital to 
strategic opportunities that drive 
increased loan and fee growth. Expand market share in key 
geographies,  including the Southeast, 
Texas and California. Maintain discipline  in our 
approach to expense, rate risk 
and credit risk management.  
 
 
19  
  
  
 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ECONOMIC 
Fifth Third’s Footprint Markets 
Served 
As of Dec. 31, 2021, Fifth Third operated 
1,117 full-service banking centers and 2,322 
Fifth Third branded ATMs in our retail 
footprint, which includes Ohio, Kentucky, 
Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, 
Tennessee, West Virginia, Georgia, North 
Carolina and South Carolina. 
Fifth Third provides customers access to 
approximately 54,000 fee-free ATMs across the 
United States. Outside of our retail footprint, 
we have middle market and corporate banking 
ofces and provide indirect auto and mortgage 
lending across the United States. TORONTO OFFICE 
LONDON 
OFFICE 
 Regional footprint
 Major FITB markets* with a top 
10 deposit share Major FITB markets* with a top 
5 deposit share
 Out-of-footprint middle market and 
corporate banking 1,117 
full-service 
banking centers 
2,322
 Fifth Third branded ATMs 
across regional footprint 
~54,000 
fee-free ATMs nationwide 
*Defned as MSAs with $5BN+ in capped deposits (branch deposits capped at $250 million per June 2021 FDIC data) 20  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
Responsible Banking 
We strive to act in 
the best interest of consumers to build lasting relationships and  
to help them prosper. We are focused on delivering 
best-in-class fnancial products 
and services and providing 
access to those services 
whenever and wherever 
consumers want them. 
We are responsible for ensuring that our 
products and services are accessible to all 
consumers, in all markets, and that the right 
types of responsible products and services are 
ofered. We strive to act in the best interest 
of consumers by providing reasonably priced 
products, defning clear terms and disclosures, 
and ofering fair and consistent service. By 
doing so, we can build lasting customer 
relationships and meet our responsibility to 
help them prosper. 
Honest Business Practices 
We strive to act in our customers’ best 
interest. Fair and honest business practices 
are essential to keeping our customers at the 
center of everything we do. Unethical business 
practices are strictly prohibited, and further, 
are not consistent with our core values. We are 
fully committed to maintaining non-abusive 
and anti-predatory lending practices. Credit 
decisions are made without regard to race, ethnicity, color, religion, national origin, sex, 
age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender 
identifcation or assignment, military status, 
disability, receipt of public assistance, familial 
status or a consumer’s exercise of credit 
protection rights. 
Fifth Third’s Community Reinvestment Act 
and Responsible Banking Committee is 
responsible for guiding enterprise-wide CRA 
and responsible conduct strategies and policies. 
The Committee facilitates high-level direction 
to consumer and commercial lines of business 
consistent with such strategies and policies. The 
Committee also seeks to promote a corporate 
culture that supports Fifth Third’s commitment 
to both the letter and spirit of CRA and other 
laws and regulations that prohibit behavior 
and practices that could be deemed unethical, 
discriminatory, or predatory in nature, as well 
as unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices 
known as UDAAP. 
The CRA and Responsible Banking Committee 
is led by the consumer and business practices 
senior compliance director and the chief 
community impact banking ofcer of Fifth Third 
Bank. Membership is comprised of leadership 
from the lines of business, Legal, Risk, and Fair 
Lending department, as well as community 
development representatives. The Committee’s 
responsibility is delegated from the Board of 
Directors who oversees the committee actions Contents 
through the Enterprise Risk Management 
Committee. 
Further, we assert that fair lending and 
responsible banking compliance is the responsibility of all employees, a message reiterated in the Company’s Code of Business 
Conduct & Ethics, which all employees are 
required to sign and acknowledge on an annual 
basis. In 2021, over 99% of employees made 
this acknowledgment, a requirement that is 
regularly tested and verifed. 
In addition, the Bank requires employees and 
contractors to complete compliance training on an annual basis, including: complaint 
management, fnancial crimes compliance 
training, elder fnancial abuse, preventing fraud 
and Doing the Right Thing, which comprises 
eight modules. One module is Responsible 
Banking and Fair Lending Basics, which covers Fifth Third’s commitment to making fnancial 
products and services available to prospective 
and existing customers on a fair and responsible 
basis. These courses are required no matter 
what an employee’s role is at the Bank. In 2021, 
99.9% of all required compliance training 
modules were completed by employees. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fair Marketing 
The mission of our Marketing department 
is to support customer-centric growth by 
fully activating the Bank’s brand. Marketing 
professionals are motivated by doing what’s right for customers and keeping them at the 
center of all decisions. Marketing works with 
our One Bank model, meaning that team 
members across the organization work 
together to serve the needs of customers 
and communities seamlessly and holistically. 
One Bank works because it builds trust, creates 
value and deepens relationships. This approach 
is also employed as we consider sponsorships 
and advertising. 
CONTINUED 21  
 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ECONOMIC 
Responsible Products 
All products ofered by Fifth Third are 
reviewed for compliance to align with UDAAP 
and any applicable consumer protection 
laws. In addition, the Bank undergoes a 
rigorous process with focus groups and, when 
appropriate, engages third party experts to 
ensure that our products fulfll our promise to 
put the customer at the center. 
In 2021, Fifth Third Express Banking® received 
Bank On national certifcation for safe 
and afordable accounts.  The certifcation 
was conferred by the Cities for Financial 
Empowerment Fund, a national nonproft 
organization dedicated to expanding access 
to traditional banking and other fnancial 
empowerment services. 
Fifth Third Express Banking® account meets 
or exceeds the Bank On National Account 
Standards developed to ensure expanded 
access to safe and appropriate fnancial 
products and services to the nearly 36 million 
people in the United States who are outside 
of the mainstream fnancial system. 
As of June 2022, Fifth Third eliminated non-
sufcient fund (NSF) fees for all consumer 
accounts, another step taken to reduce 
punitive fees and focus on the best outcomes 
for customers. Additional Examples of Fifth Third’s Commitment to Responsible Products: 
Overdraft solutions, including 
Extra Time® 
•  Extra Time makes additional time 
available for Fifth Third Momentum® Banking customers, up until midnight the following business  
day, to make a deposit and avoid overdraft fees, available to our entire retail footprint. With this product feature,  we helped customers avoid 
$15.9 million in overdraft fees in 2021.  
•  Overdraft Protection is an optional  
service that links to any Fifth Third  
Consumer and Business Checking  
Account, Savings Account, or Fifth  
Third Rewards Credit Card. Overdraft  
Protection automatically transfers  
funds from one account to another  
to protect customers from incurring  
overdraft fees, in the event that one  
account has insufcient funds. Early access to direct 
deposits with Early Pay and MyAdvance™ 
•  The Early Pay  feature gives  
Momentum Checking customers  
access to their paychecks up to 
two days early at no cost. Over 6.8 million paychecks were deposited  
early in 2021. 
•  MyAdvance™  gives customers the 
ability to advance funds against future qualifed direct deposits, available now, starting the month after direct deposit is established, which is a more responsible and less expensive option for consumers who utilize check -cashing facilities. Cash back and savings support 
•  The Fifth Third Cash/Back Credit Card  launched in November 2019 as 
the Bank’s fagship rewards credit card product, ofering 1.67% cash back on every purchase, no matter the category. In 2021, Fifth Third rewarded customers $10.3 million in cash back. 
•  Fifth Third Momentum® Smart  
Savings  allows customers to create 
goals through the Fifth Third mobile app to save small amounts of money automatically.  With this product, 
customers were able to save $2.7 million in 2021 with automatic transfers from their checking  
account to their savings account. 
•  All pay -by -phone fees were 
eliminated in 2021, enabling customers to make over 430,000 payments via phone at no charge. 
CONTINUED 22  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ECONOMIC 
Fifth Third Express Banking® ofers 
the following features : 
• Debit card. 
• $0 required to open*. 
• No monthly maintenance fee* and no 
minimum balance. 
• No overdraft or non-sufcient fund fees. 
• Free access to network of more than 50,000 ATMs. 
• Free deposits in branch and direct deposit. 
• Free money orders. 
• No activation, dormancy or inactivity fees. 
• Free and unrestricted branch access and telephone banking. 
• Free online and mobile banking, and banking alerts. 
• Free electronic and mailed paper statements*. 
• FDIC insured. 
*Denotes the Fifth Third Express Banking account exceeds. Bank On National 
Account Standards which require $25 or lower deposit to open, monthly maintenance fees of $5 or less or $10 but waivable with activity, and $2 maximum fee for mailed statements. Product Reviews 
Introduction of new products as well as 
product expansions and modifcations are 
carefully reviewed to ensure compliance with 
applicable rules and regulations, and customer 
suitability. New products are reviewed by the risk 
management committees, including the Risk and 
Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Additionally, we want to ensure that existing 
products continue to be delivered to customers 
as intended, designed, in accordance with 
contractual terms and in compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. To accomplish 
that, we have enhanced our product risk 
management practices by implementing a 
product delivery risk assessment framework 
to oversee the delivery of existing products to customers. 
Compliance 
Compliance ofcers are involved in the 
development of products, the approval of 
marketing materials and campaigns, and 
oversight of marketing processes and 
procedures. Compliance ofcers ensure that 
information within advertising is prominent, 
easy to understand, placed where the customer 
would expect to fnd it, and true. 
Fifth Third has implemented a Consumer 
and Business Practices Compliance Policy, 
which requires compliance with various laws, 
regulations and regulatory guidance that 
seek to ensure fair, transparent, and equitable 
treatment of all Fifth Third customers, including prospective customers. An enterprise-wide 
Consumer and Business Practices Compliance 
Program  governed by the Compliance Risk 
Management framework, outlines Fifth Third’s 
commitment to meeting both the letter and 
spirit of laws that encourage ethical, fair, and 
consistent conduct, including prohibitions 
against discrimination, predatory lending, or 
engagement in any acts or practices that would 
be deemed unfair, deceptive, or abusive. 
This program applies to all Fifth Third lines of 
business and functional areas that engage in 
consumer and business banking products and 
services. Moreover, this program applies to 
all phases of the customer relationship from 
product design, pricing and compensation, 
and marketing and advertising to account 
origination, fulfllment, servicing and account closure or disposition. 
Sales and Service 
Our approach to sales and service is to take 
the time to understand what matters for each 
customer and to build a product or service 
solution that helps them meet their goals in their 
channel of choice. This is the essence of what 
keeping the “customer at the center” means at 
Fifth Third. This consultative approach ensures 
we are meeting customers’ needs as they 
evolve and change. 
Employees in every sales role participate 
in consultative-focused training, providing 
guidance on how to have robust customer 
conversations and how to ofer needs-based Our approach to sales 
and service is to take 
the time to understand 
what matters for each 
customer and to build 
a solution that helps 
them meet their goals. 
solutions. Once completed, additional learning 
is specialized based on department and role. 
Periodic performance reviews and check-
ins with managers enable feedback and 
professional development. 
Compensation 
To support our consultative sales and service 
approach, our compensation system focuses on 
customer experience and revenue metrics. We 
do not impose sales quotas or product specifc 
sales targets, nor do we require customers 
to open a certain number of accounts. 
Approximately 90% of a retail employee’s 
compensation is salary. Of the remaining amount, only a small percentage is based on sales 
performance related to customer experience and revenue targets. In 2019, we eliminated account 
openings entirely as a factor considered in compensation. Most important, sales performance 
metrics prioritize quality over quantity. 
CONTINUED 23  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
-2021 E
 SG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ECONOMIC 
Customer Insights 
Understanding our customers is important 
to us. We use multiple data sources to 
understand our customers and their 
experiences, including voice of customer data. 
Voice of customer data is received through a 
wide array of verbal and written intake channels, 
including call center, social media, retail banking 
centers, collections, mortgage origination and 
others. Customer care teams, including the 
Ofce of the President, keep our customers at 
the center by treating them with kindness, being 
consistent and providing timely resolution. This 
focus on customer care ensures we are keeping 
the customer at the center and therefore driving 
business results. Our Consumer Contact Center has a bilingual 
group that helps 
support our Spanish-speaking customers 
Alberto Cuervo , 
consumer call center 
bilingual team lead, 
Cincinnati, helps to plan, assign and 
monitor the team’s workfow. 
“I collaborate to ensure that all calls, 
processes and quality standards are 
in compliance. I also provide timely 
coaching to our bilingual agents 
to ensure our clients are getting the 
highest possible customer service.” 
In addition, Fifth Third has a robust complaint 
management program. It contains the 
following elements: 
• Governance,  including our Complaint 
Management Policy and Framework. 
• Education,  focusing on complaint 
identifcation, capture, resolution and escalation. 
• Socialization,  through recurring line of 
business complaint dashboards and executive updates. 
• Prevention,  including a root cause analysis 
program focused on identifying the issue, impact, conclusions and potential solutions. The Management Compliance Committee 
provides oversight of the complaint management program with executive updates provided in risk review meetings. Additionally, 
lines of business attend monthly meetings 
designed to discuss improvement opportunities 
and progress toward previously identifed 
improvement opportunities. 
Our intense focus on the customer experience 
and complaint issue elimination has 
resulted in customers reporting 10% fewer 
complaints in 2021 than in 2020, and 24% 
fewer complaints than in 2019, our last pre -
pandemic year. 
Customer-focused actions improve customer satisfaction and drive business results 
INCREASED IMPROVED MORE PRIMARY CUSTOMER HOUSEHOLD INCREASED CUSTOMER BANKING INSIGHTS & GROWTH PROFITABILITY SATISFACTION RELATIONSHIPS ACTIONS 
24% fewer customer reported 5th straight year of increased branch 3rd fastest growing large bank in ACH 3%+ household growth 
complaints in 2021 versus 2019 customer satisfaction scores credit transaction volume, one indicator 
of primary banking relationships 
24  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 –ECONOMIC 
2021 ESG Report 
Serving Customers Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
“Within the frst year of adopting Expert AP, we reduced 
our total paper check processing velocity by 90%. Our new 
system allows suppliers to pick the payment that they 
want.” 
STAN BAHOREK, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, COLUMBUS CITY SCHOOLS
•Direct engagement with suppliers to identify product continues to grow, Fifth Third looks 
their preferred payment type and verify payment forward to providing increasing value to 
information resulting in 40% conversion to commercial clients for years to come. 
electronic payment method on average.
Receivables solutions  help our clients receive 
•Enhanced virtual card and ACH paymentfunds more efciently, gain better insight into 
value-added options, including enrichedtheir cash position and make informed investing 
remittance data, enabling suppliers to moreand borrowing decisions. Solutions such as 
easily reconcile payments.Expert AR Receivables Matching, Expert AR 
•Card payments processing delivered in a Statement Production, Real-Time Payments and 
variety of methods (email, manual entry, Cash Logistics create operational backroom 
supplier’s portal). efciencies that enable clients to focus on 
projects that power business performance. •User-friendly buyer and supplier portal,
providing clients with visibility to paymentFifth Third also ofers liquidity management 
data and all associated information.solutions  that help clients channel their 
balances into investment income and improve Expert AP provides signifcant direct and 
cash position forecasting; information indirect value to its nearly 100 customers. In 
management tools that put comprehensive total, clients gained an estimated $3.5 million 
reporting in our clients’ hands so they have in value through increased operational 
the data they need when they want it; and efciency in 2021. Additionally, Fifth Third 
risk management solutions that provide fraud awarded over $1.7 million in Expert AP rebates 
mitigation tools that help safeguard clients’ for card and ACH spend last year. As the 
fnancial information from fraud. Since Fifth Third was 
founded over 160 years ago, 
empowering our customers 
and clients to achieve what 
matters most has been at the 
heart of what we do. 
Today, as customer and client needs evolve, 
we’re uniquely positioned to serve them by 
delivering tailored, digital solutions that meet 
their on-demand expectations and lifestyles, 
while providing the human connection and 
expert guidance that makes for lasting, 
rewarding relationships. 
Consumer Customers 
By keeping the customer at the center of 
everything we do and focusing on continual 
digital transformation, Fifth Third ofers a unique 
combination of products and solutions tailored 
to meet diferent consumer segments, along 
with our local presence and the relationship 
benefts of a community bank. The Bank’s 
primary programs for consumers are Fifth Third 
Express Banking® , Fifth Third Momentum® 
Banking  and Fifth Third Preferred Banking . 
These programs are much more than just a 
checking account; each enables our customers 
to actively manage and meet the needs of their fnancial lives, in whatever way they wish to do 
so. More information is available at 53.com . 
Business Clients 
Just as we keep our consumer customers at the 
center, the same level of attention and priority 
is given to our business clients. Fifth Third’s 
Treasury Management business, for example, 
ofers solutions that help clients manage their cash fow to efciently collect and disburse 
payments, manage liquidity and mitigate risk. 
Payable solutions such as Expert AP  help our 
clients control their payments and improve 
access to payment information. Expert AP is an 
innovative, full-service B2B payables solution 
powered by AvidXChange™. It covers 100% of 
clients’ domestic payables and optimizes the 
payment mix. It helps AP departments run more 
efciently and impacts their bottom line. Our client’s suppliers also beneft with additional 
payment and enhanced data options. 
Expert AP includes: 
•Electronic invoice capture and AP workfowautomation technology integrated with clients’current accounting ERP systems for AP process.
•Ability to facilitate 100% of a client’s domesticsupplier payments across all payment types(virtual card, enhanced ACH and check), whilealso giving clients the option to use otherpayment methods when necessary.
25  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Leading Through a Racial Reckoning 2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
Accelerating Racial Equality, 
Equity and Inclusion 
Accelerating racial equality, equity and inclusion action in the form of a $2.8 billion, three-year 
has always been a key priority for Fifth Third Accelerating Racial Equality, Equity and 
Bank. In the wake of the events of 2020, Inclusion initiative, or AREEI.  Announced in 
though, the Bank expanded its eforts and December 2020, the three-year ARREI initiative 
made public its commitment to be a driver pledged signifcant funding for strategic 
of efective, sustainable change for our investments, access to capital, fnancial 
communities, customers and employees. inclusion and education, and specifc actions 
to further social justice and advocacy. In the 
After taking steps to listen and learn from our initiative’s frst year, Fifth Third delivered over 
stakeholders, we took immediate and strong $1.3 billion, 46% of the $2.8 billion plan. 
$170.6  million $1.1 billion $2.2 billion 
$500 million 
$60 million 
$40 million $25.1 million 
$12.9 million COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS 
PHILANTHROPIC 
EFFORTS LOAN CAPITAL 
FINANCIAL 
ACCESSIBILITY 
EFFORTS $2.8B AREEI Investment Areas 
2021 Goal (by Dec. 31, 2023) As America in 2020 
reached a critical 
juncture on its road to 
overcoming inequality 
and injustice, Fifth Third’s 
leaders recognized the 
importance of the moment 
and stepped back to 
consider not only how 
the Bank could be an 
efective driver of change 
for diversity, equity and 
inclusion, but also how we 
could accelerate eforts 
already underway. 
A group of executives 
including Fifth Third 
Bancorp President 
Tim Spence , Chief 
Corporate Responsibility 
Ofcer Kala Gibson  and 
Chief Inclusion & Diversity Ofcer Stephanie Smith 
began talking about 
the possibilities. “We 
recognized the broader, 
long-term work ahead of us 
to drive sustainable change 
on structural and systemic 
issues,” said Smith. 
Spence, who has also been the executive 
sponsor of Fifth Third’s African American 
Business Resource Group since 2016, noted that 
the group was committed to solving systemic 
issues. “As leaders, we are called to make 
Tim Spence , EVP , 
President 
Kala Gibson, Council 
Co-Chair, E V P, 
Chief Corporate 
Responsibility Ofcer 
Stephanie A. Smith , 
Council Co-Chair , SVP , 
Chief Inclusion & 
Diversity Ofcer consequential decisions in consequential times. 
The sustained progress we want to achieve 
requires a strategic approach, along with the 
time and resources needed to drive real impact. 
There is no work more important than this.” 
From these discussions, the Executive Diversity Leadership Council, or EDLC, was born. The EDLC 
held its frst ofcial meeting on Juneteenth in 2020. 
The EDLC comprises senior Bank leaders and was 
initially charged with developing and delivering 
short- and long-term solutions to advance the 
Bank’s diversity eforts. Initially, the EDLC focused 
on Black employees, communities and customers. 
In 2021, the EDLC broadened its focus to all 
diverse employees, communities and customers. 
Given the nature of the work, Gibson noted that 
the EDLC requires a higher level of vulnerability. 
“This is an area where people come with their 
own life experiences. We have to open up and 
be vulnerable as our work continues. It makes for 
richer discussions and solutions, and it’s the only 
way we will get to real, sustainable change.” 
Smith explained that inclusion and diversity will 
always be at the heart of the Bank’s core values and strategic actions. “I’m proud of how the 
EDLC and everyone in our workstreams doubled 
down on our core value to be more inclusive and diverse. We made great progress in 2020 and 
2021. I hope everyone involved will be able 
to look back years from now and see how we 
drove lasting change.” 
26  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ECONOMIC 
AREEI: Employees 
AREEI eforts for employees in 2021 focused 
on creating a greater sense of belonging by 
providing forums where employees could 
connect, share insights and feedback, and 
advance their awareness of inequality within 
the workplace.  This approach included a 
mix of continuous listening and learning 
opportunities and 
updated tools and 
resources through 
the employee 
lifecycle. Fifth Third 
Chief Learning 
Ofcer Christine 
Nester  leads the 
AREEI Employee 
Workstream. 
Listening, Learning and Taking Action 
Listening and learning from employees is vital 
to becoming a more equitable, diverse and 
inclusive organization. In October 2021, Fifth 
Third partnered with a leading marketing 
strategy and research organization to facilitate 
and execute a three-year employee listening 
strategy. There will be 68 total sessions through 
2025. These sessions are designed to provide 
employees with an opportunity to speak candidly about inclusion and diversity at the 
Bank, and the insights and sentiments gleaned 
from them will inform our path forward. 
Christine Nester , SVP, Chief 
Learning Ofcer Also last year, the Bank continued its 
journey with unconscious bias training that began in 2020. In 2021, the focus was 
on microaggressions and bias mitigation. 
Through a series of short videos and interactive 
experiences in Degreed, an online learning 
platform, employees explored how to mitigate 
bias, address microaggressions and have 
inclusive conversations and meetings. 
The learning journey also included activities 
to help employees practice and refect on 
key lessons. In 2021, over 5,700 employees 
completed the associated survey, a 146% 
increase over the prior year. The vast majority 
of participants found the experience valuable 
in helping them understand and mitigate their 
unconscious bias. 
Fifth Third’s learning and development 
team also partnered with Harvard Business 
Publishing to design training that will enable 
managers and employees to engage more 
efectively in critical conversations. The Employee Lifecycle 
Fifth Third conducted a comprehensive review 
of the Bank’s practices through the employee 
lifecycle. The review included recruiting, 
development and performance management 
practices to fnd meaningful ways to accelerate 
equality, equity and inclusion with all employees. 
Strategies based on the review’s fndings are in 
development and will be initiated in 2022. 
For more information on our overarching 
inclusion and diversity strategy, including our six 
bold goals, see page 53 . 
1 
African American BRG 
Detroit, MI CED Market Manager In 2021, 98% of employees 
completed unconscious bias training. 
Fifth Third’s Unconscious Bias Training for employees. 
27  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
AREEI: Customers 
Fifth Third seeks to be the bank of choice for 
Black business owners and Black consumers 
across our footprint. Our fnancial pledge of $2.8 
billion focuses on creating equitable outcomes 
for all.  
This workstream, led 
by Navia McCloud , 
Business Banking 
national sales manager, focuses on: 
• Addressing the racial wealth gap and other fnancial disparities. 
• Developing end-to-end products and solutions  with targeted marketing and 
outreach. 
• Listening and learning from customers to achieve our lending commitments  in home 
mortgage, small business and business banking. 
In addition to focusing on the lending 
commitment, the group enlisted the services of 
a majority owned qualitative research frm and an African American focus group moderator to 
develop a cohesive lifecycle banking education 
program. The focus groups provided insights 
on workforce diversifcation, multicultural 
marketing, the Lifecycle Banking Education 
Program and Home Mortgage Disclosure Act 
data, and metropolitan area and census tract 
level analysis within Fifth Third’s footprint. 
Navia McCloud , SVP, Business 
Banking National Sales Manager In 2021, Fifth Third joined the Ofce of the 
Comptroller of the Currency’s Project REACh 
initiative.  Project REACh (Roundtable for 
Economic Access and Change) is a collaborative 
efort that involves leaders from banking, 
business, technology, and national civil rights 
organizations to remove structural barriers 
to fnancial inclusion and increase broader 
participation in the national economy. 
Project REACh aims to achieve several 
changes nationwide that promote fnancial empowerment. The strategy also will implement 
successful local projects that can serve as 
models for fnancial inclusion, building wealth 
and addressing issues of fnancial inequality 
in areas such as credit alternatives, afordable Contents 
housing, small business lending and supporting 
minority depository institutions. Fifth Third 
has dedicated resources to address these 
workstreams created by the OCC to drive 
positive change for its customers. 
Finally, the customer workstream supported 
the Fifth Third Empowering Black Futures 
neighborhood investment program by providing research and data that confrmed the selected 
areas would receive branch and banking 
options that meet their specifc needs, 
including establishing lending goals for each 
participating neighborhood. Moving forward, 
the workstream will support the infrastructure 
of the new branches as well as locations slated 
for remodeling or other updates. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Our customer sub-workstreams 
play a key role in supporting our 
Black customers by applying Fifth 
Third’s One Bank approach with 
an AREEI focus. Highlights from 
2021 include: 
Mortgage:  The sub-
stream focused on data 
driven opportunity 
assignments to mortgage 
loan originators 
engaging real estate 
agents in target markets and hosted 
targeted homebuyer education forums in 
high minority tracts. 
Small Business Banking, 
Business Banking and 
Commercial:  This sub-
stream adjusted product 
ofers and bundling 
based on data discovery 
results; reviewed credit policies for possible 
adjustment; and modifed existing One 
Bank agendas  to include AREEI topics. 
Consumer Retail: 
This sub-stream aligned 
education opportunities 
with Retail branches; 
considered modifcations 
to the in-branch 
customer experience ; and adjusted 
product oferings and bundling  based on 
data discovery results. AREEI Lending Commitments 
As of Dec. 31, 2021 (In millions) 2021 
Target 2021 
Actual 2022 
Target 2023 
Target 
Community investments, loans/Financial
accessibility, branches in high minority 
tracts/Contributions via the Fifth Third 
Foundation $200 $224 $200 $200 
Lending to high minority tract 
businesses $290 $709 $435 $535 
Lending to Black homebuyers/owners $270 $469 $315 $365 
As of Dec. 31, 2021, Fifth Third had exceeded our AREEI lending commitments to high 
minority census tract businesses and Black homebuyers. 
28   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
AREEI: Communities 
Financial inclusion, accessibility, education 
and social justice are at the heart of our 
community eforts. Increasing access to banking 
centers and solutions for the unbanked and 
underbanked as well as expanding oferings 
to include investments for neighborhood 
revitalization and workforce development, will 
bring about the sustainable, systemic change 
Fifth Third strives to create. 
In 2021, the 
community 
workstream, led by 
Stefanie Steward-
Young , chief social 
responsibility ofcer, made signifcant progress. 
Stefanie Steward-Young, SVP, 
Chief Social Responsibility Ofcer 
Strategic 
Investments 
Under the AREEI initiative, Fifth Third and 
the Fifth Third Community Development 
Co. committed $170.6 million in strategic 
investments in 2021 to accelerate racial inclusion in our footprint. 
One of those investments was a $2.35 million 
New Markets Tax Credit investment for 
the redevelopment of the 18,000 square 
foot CityLink Center  located on fve acres 
near downtown Cincinnati. CLC is a nonproft 
Christian community outreach center that brings 
dozens of services under one roof to eliminate the complexities facing the working poor and 
unemployed. CLC clients engage to advance 
their employment, education and fnancial 
literacy while receiving support for childcare, 
transportation, counseling, and health and 
wellness.  Additional community benefts 
include minority inclusion targets at 30% of the 
construction spending and 15% for operating 
supplies and services, community training in 
the construction and automotive trades, and 
childcare for nearly 100 children annually. 
Fifth Third also invested $2.5 million in 2021 
with Detroit-based First Independence Bank ; 
that follows a $3 million investment made 
with that institution in 2008. The combined 
$5.5 million investment made Fifth Third the 
largest investor in the minority depository 
institution and community development Contents 
fnancial institution . Fifth Third has 
been First Independence Bank’s primary 
correspondent bank, managed out of Fifth 
Third’s Financial Institutions group, which 
provides correspondent banking and treasury management services to fnancial institutions 
of all sizes. Through this investment, Fifth Third 
supports First Independence through loan 
participation and the coordination of fnancial 
literacy training for First Independence Bank’s 
customers. This deal has the potential to 
result in the origination of $50 million in new 
consumer and business loans in Detroit. 
Philanthropy 
The Fifth Third Foundation awarded $7.9 
million in grants under AREEI in 2021. The 
grants, which supported both the Foundation’s 
focus areas as well as the AREEI strategic 
pillars, included: 
• Accelerate Great Schools, $1 million, for transformative educational experiences for Cincinnati’s at-need students, part of a $2 million multi-year commitment. 
• Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture, $400,000, for preservation of African American life, history and culture, part of a $1 million multi-year commitment. 
• Afro-American Cultural Center, $100,000, for equity and inclusion initiatives in North Carolina. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
• Florida Housing Coalition, $100,000,  to 
support afordable housing in Florida. 
• Motown Historical Museum, $250,000, to support the Detroit museum’s expansion. 
• Russell Center for Innovation, $100,000, to empower Black entrepreneurs in Georgia. 
• Louisville Urban League, $75,000, for fnancial empowerment and homeownership programs in Kentucky. 
The Foundation also provided grants to several 
historically Black colleges and universities 
or their foundations , including Central State 
University, Clark Atlanta University, Florida 
Agricultural and Mechanical University, Grand 
Valley State University, Johnson C. Smith 
University, North Carolina Central University 
and Tennessee State University to support 
the universities, and in some cases, student 
scholarships. More about the Fifth Third’s 
multicultural strategy and work with HBCUs is 
available on page 57 . 
In addition to the $7.9 million in grants 
awarded, the Foundation also awarded $5 
million to Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors 
for program-related investments. These are 
Foundation investments in the form of no-
interest, short-term loans to entities that may 
not otherwise qualify for traditional fnancing. 
Program-related investments function like 
revolving loans so the grant money can be reinvested for similar purposes. The Fifth Third Community Development Company 
invested $2.35 million in New Market Tax Credits for 
CityLink, a fve-acre hub for social services in Cincinnati. 
CONTINUED 29  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 –
2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
Fifth Third Empowering Black Futures 
Neighborhood Program 
The cornerstone of AREEI is the Fifth Third 
Empowering Black Futures neighborhood 
program . Announced in October 2021, the $180 
million program will invest up to $20 million 
into each of nine select neighborhoods within 
the Bank’s footprint that have sufered from 
disinvestment, wealth extraction and income 
disparities due to racial inequalities.  The 
three-year program will deliver comprehensive 
support to the neighborhoods to revitalize and 
boost the economic mobility of Black residents. 
Across each of the nine neighborhoods, the 
program seeks to: 
• Create more equitable, connected 
systems. 
Strengthen links across stakeholder groups, 
including small Black-owned businesses, the community and other institutions and organizations. Improve availability and delivery of Fifth Third lending products in previously underserved areas. 
• 
Improve upward mobility among 
Black residents. 
Increase Black homeownership rates and 
reduce displacement of Black residents. Generate wealth and a higher sense of value, agency and belonging. 
• 
Build an inclusive civic 
infrastructure. 
Strengthen the capacity of local stakeholders to 
sustain eforts and expand services and programs that support residents’ economic mobility. • 
Promote prosperous, small Black-
owned businesses. 
Increase entrepreneurship and achieve 
greater growth and retention of small Black-owned businesses. 
• 
Develop healthy, built 
environments. 
Reduce vacancies and abandoned buildings 
and develop plans for improved walkability and availability of open spaces. 
Fifth Third is committing up to $20 million 
in lending, investments and philanthropy to 
each of the nine neighborhoods. Of the funds, 
90% represents a combination of capital and 
products and services for small business, mortgage and neighborhood revitalization 
loans and investments, while 10% will be 
invested in philanthropic eforts. 
Fifth Third selected Enterprise Community Partners to lead the three-year 
neighborhood program. ECP will use its 
national program and technical assistance platform to foster the development of tailored 
community economic development plans in each neighborhood. 
In March 2021, Fifth Third and ECP invited 
a group of organizations to apply to be one 
of the nine neighborhoods selected for the 
program. The criteria included partnering 
with the neighborhood’s Black residents, 
existing neighborhood infrastructure, and the organization’s ability to manage equitable 
investment and wealth-building opportunities. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
“The Fifth Third Empowering Black Futures 
neighborhood investment program combines 
capital, expertise and collaboration to create 
economic mobility and develop a foundation of equity to eliminate racial disparities and 
level the playing feld.” 
JADA GRANDY MOCK , CHIEF COMMUNITY IMPACT BANKING OFFICER. 
CONTINUED 30  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  --
-
-
2021 ESG Report 
ECONOMIC 
Access to Capital 
Fifth Third has committed to supporting small 
business owners with capital access programs. 
Fifth Third and the Fifth Third Foundation have 
committed $1 million over three years to the Accion 
Opportunity Fund for its Strengthening Support for 
Black-Owned Businesses program. The program 
helps expand access to capital for Black-owned 
businesses. Through this support, AOF aims to serve 
at least 1,500 Black-owned businesses with small 
business loans totaling $30 million over three years, 
with an average loan size of $20,000. AOF also 
aims to create a business coaching hub to support 
women of color small business owners. 
Additionally, the Association for Enterprise 
Opportunity received $250,000 from the Fifth 
Third Foundation to support its Black Women 
Access Capital Program. This program provides 
Black women business owners an increased path 
to entrepreneurship. The 40 program participants 
were provided access to up to $50,000 in capital 
and assistance with building credit. 
Financial Inclusion and Education 
Ensuring that our Black consumers and business 
owners have access to the fnancial resources they 
need to be successful as well as the education they need to grow is a key part of the Bank’s AREEI 
initiative. Fifth Third and the Fifth Third Foundation 
took signifcant steps with both through a new 
workforce development program in collaboration with the National Urban League and a new 
certifcate program Fifth Third established with the 
National Minority Supplier Development Council 
(see feature in this section and in supplier diversity 
section for details). Additionally, as part of ARREI, the Bank opened 
nine branches in low- and moderate-income 
or high minority-population census tracts in 
2021, and has slated opening or redesigning an 
additional nine branches in the nine Fifth Third 
Empowering Black Futures neighborhoods. Also, 
the Bank’s expansion plan in the Southeast calls 
for about 25% of new branches to be built in LMI 
communities or minority tracts. 
Social Justice and Advocacy 
Fifth Third’s involvement with Project REACh, as 
mentioned earlier in this section, is set to make 
a signifcant impact in our communities as we 
engage with various entities to enable greater 
participation among minorities in the economy, 
especially through the creation of afordable 
housing, small business lending and supporting 
minority depository institutions. 
The OCC announced Project REACh in 
July 2020 with goals to: 
• Reduce the number of people left 
behind because they lack useful credit scores. 
• Increase access to afordable housing. 
• Support the vitality of minority depository institutions and small businesses. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
FEATURE 
New Urban League Workforce Development 
Program to Provide Upskilling, Re-skilling Services 
The Fifth Third Foundation and the that these jobs ofered no pathway to career 
advancement and were disproportionately National Urban League launched a 
flled by low wage workers of color. new workforce development program 
to provide career advancement The program will be ofered in Charlotte, North 
Carolina; Chicago; Cincinnati, Cleveland opportunities through services that 
and Dayton, Ohio; Grand Rapids, Michigan; provide new and improved skills to Indianapolis; Louisville, Kentucky, and 
under employed participants over Nashville, Tennessee.  The afliate cities were 
the next two years. selected for their experience and the strength 
of their career advancement employment 
This $1 million investment from the Fifth opportunity programs, the number of local 
Third Foundation will help individuals underemployed and unemployed workers, and 
across eight selected afliate Urban League strong community partnerships. 
organizations gain meaningful employment 
and earn a livable wage. The program will provide career counseling 
services and connect participants to career 
Studies show that occupations and industries advancement credentialing and certifcation 
such as retail, hospitality and food services opportunities. It also will provide training 
were vulnerable to workplace changes such as through existing oferings provided by the 
increased automation. Those studies also showed National Urban League. 
“Low-wage workers were made even more vulnerable 
by the pandemic. With strategic intervention from 
opportunities such as the Workforce Development 
Program, these individuals can fnd a pathway to 
economic stability. Fifth Third Bank’s partnership 
with the National Urban League will create brighter 
fnancial outcomes for those most in need.” 
MARC H. MORIAL, NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE PRESIDENT AND CEO. 
31   
  
  
  
   
 
-2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Environment 
As the impacts of climate change 
continue to be felt around the world, we 
are beginning to see signifcant changes 
emerge in the way many of our customers 
do business. These changes are driving a 
larger economic shift as the push towards 
decarbonization accelerates. For many, it is 
no longer about whether this change will 
happen, but how quickly it will transpire. Fifth Third has had a historic commitment 
to environmental leadership in the 
fnancial services sector.  That commitment 
is rooted in our desire to build strong 
communities, serve our customers well 
and achieve our vision to be the one bank 
people most value and trust. We are driven by our understanding that integrating 
environmental sustainability into all aspects of our business creates long term value 
and strengthens the communities we serve. 
We recognize the need for fnancial service 
providers to support the transition toward 
a more sustainable future. Banking is key 
to supporting the development of new technologies, fnancing new infrastructure 
and helping customers transition their 
operations. IN THIS SECTION 
• 33 Climate Strategy 
• 34 Transition to a Sustainable Future 
• 41 Climate Risk Management 
• 44 Operational Sustainability 
• 49 Environmental Data 
32  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
-
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT 
Climate Strategy 
understanding material climate-related risks. In Fifth Third has been focused 
February 2022, Fifth Third published our second on three strategies since climate-related fnancial disclosure report . 
our frst Environmental We have been focused on transparency 
Sustainability Policy*  was and reporting since 2010, when we began 
including an environment section in our annual approved by our Board of 
CSR report and publicly disclosing carbon 
Directors in 2014. emissions and climate risk through the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) voluntary 
In 2017, the Task Force on Climate-related questionnaire. In the most recent CDP 
Financial Disclosure published recommended, questionnaire in 2021, we were recognized as 
voluntary guidance for consistent fnancial a leader for the third consecutive year. 
disclosures designed to be used by investors, lenders and insurance underwriters in 
Climate Strategy Progress 2018 
• Renewable energy fnance 
center of excellence 2014 established with lending group. 2011 Environmental Sustainability • Signed power purchase 
Environmental sustainability Policy* adopted by Board of agreement for 100% renewable 
program launched. Directors. energy. Supporting a 
sustainable 
transition 
by helping our customers 
and communities prepare 
for climate related risks 
and opportunities. Managing 
climate-related 
risks 
facing our Company, including 
those related to physical and 
transition risks. Reducing our 
environmental 
footprint 
through renewable energy, 
energy efciency and other 
operational improvements 
across our enterprise. 
2022 
• Published second TCFD report. 
• Acquired Dividend Finance. 
• Named frst chief sustainability ofcer. 
• Second sustainability goals announced, to be achieved by 2030. 
• $100 billion environmental and social fnance target announced, to be achieved through 2030. 2020 
• Announced $8 billion sustainable fnance goal for lending and fnancing toward renewable energy, to be achieved by 2025. 
• Environmental & Social Policy published. 
• Achieved carbon neutrality in our operations. 
2010 2012 2017 2019 2021 
• Added environment section First renewable energy First sustainability goals Published frst TCFD report. • Joined Partnership for Carbon 
to annual CSR report. 
 Accounting Financials. projects fnanced. announced, to be achieved 
by 2022. • Joined Ceres Company • Responded to frst CDP 
Network. questionnaire. 
• Issued inaugural Green Bond. 
• Named frst climate risk ofcer. 
*Environmental Sustainability Policy was superseded by the Environmental & Social Policy, which is available on our investor relations website. 33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Transition to a 
Sustainable Future 
Our approach to sustainability 
is driven by our Company’s 
purpose: to improve the lives 
of our customers and the well -
being of our communities. 
Our business strategy embraces an inclusive, 
sustainable path forward. We believe that capital 
can be a force for positive change. 
Fifth Third is committed to helping our 
customers and communities move to a low-
carbon, sustainable future and achieve positive 
social outcomes. We seek to provide our 
customers with products and services that will 
help them meet their evolving needs, and we hope to inspire and support our communities 
to drive toward more sustainable and inclusive 
solutions. We recognize the fnancial sector 
plays an important role in making the changes necessary to adapt to a changing planet and 
create more resilient communities. In 2022, we 
achieved our $8 billion sustainable fnance 
target that focused on renewable energy 
lending and fnancing. 
*The methodology used to prepare these fgures is available in the Additional Disclosures section of ir.53.com/esg . Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
$4.9B in Lending 
Commitments and Asset Finance:  Providing direct 
fnancing to companies and projects. This capital is provided by Fifth Third and is reported on our balance sheet.* 
$3.1B in Facilitation of Capital 
Raising:  Helping customers 
raise debt and equity fnancing from other investors. 100 % 
ACHIEVED 
“Achieving our $8 billion renewable fnance 
goal ahead of schedule is a testament to the 
growing awareness of our need to create 
new sources of renewable energy. Clients have found value in the expertise and 
services we provide—fnancing as well as 
capital raising—that enables them to build 
renewable projects.” 
ERIC COHEN, MANAGING DIRECTOR, RENEWABLE ENERGY FINANCE. 
*Includes Dividend Finance’s production after Fifth Third closed on the acquisition in May 2022. $8 Billion Sustainable Finance Goal 
by 2025* 
Drawing from eight years’ experience in 
renewable lending since our frst renewable 
project fnancing in 2012, Fifth Third established 
its frst sustainable fnance goal in 2020. By 
2025, the Bank would lend or fnance $8 
billion in renewable projects, which we 
defned as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass 
and hydropower. We limited the scope of our 
public commitment to include only lending 
and facilitation of capital raising because these 
services contribute most directly to attracting 
new investments in renewable power. 
In 2022, Fifth Third achieved this goal and 
helped facilitate the completion of more than 
600 renewable energy projects across 28 
states. 
34 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT 
$100 Billion Environmental & Social Finance Target through 2030 
After achieving our $8 billion 
renewable energy goal, Fifth 
Third expanded our aim in 
2022 and announced a 10-year, 
$100 billion environmental 
and social fnance target 
through 2030. 
Environmental and Social 
Finance Framework 
June 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  The new target 
continues our 
commitment to 
accelerating the 
transition to and 
support for more sustainable and 
inclusive growth. 
The Fifth Third 
Environmental 
& Social Finance 
Framework is 
intended to 
provide our stakeholders clarity regarding 
our criteria for determining what services are eligible and the value of transactions toward our 2030 target. The framework establishes a consistent and comprehensive methodology 
for the classifcation and reporting of fnancial 
products and services as sustainable. As of December 31, 2021 
(in billions) $1.5 
Sustainable 
Bonds and Sustainability-linked loans 
$7.1 
Social 
$3.4 
Environmental $88 
$0 $4 $7 
$1 $2 $5 $8 
$3 $6 $10 
$9 $12 
$11 Sustainability-linked loans 
Clean transportation Afordable housing Other social categories 
Green buildings Pollution prevention and control Sustainability bonds 
Energy efciency Other environmental categories Access to essential services 
Renewable energy Circular economy 
2021 In 2021, Fifth Third provided nearly $12 billion in sustainable fnancing under both 
environmental and social* eligibility criteria. 
12% 
ACHIEVED $12 
*Highlights from social categories, including afordable housing (pages 73-75 ), can be found in the social section of the report. CONTINUED 35  
2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
2030 Finance Target—Environmental Categories 
RENEWABLE ENERGY 
Fifth Third began fnancing renewable energy 
projects in 2012 with the construction and operations of numerous solar projects in North Carolina. In 2018, a national renewable energy fnance group was established and organized under our national 
energy, power and renewables Commercial Banking team, which drastically expanded our sustainability practice. We currently provide services to more than 100 borrowers across 28 states; they have helped lead to the completion of more than 600 projects. The Bank’s renewable energy fnance practice makes use of resources from our energy vertical, whose expertise helps clients reach their business goals. In 2021, Fifth Third provided over $2 billion in lending and capital raising for renewable energy projects. 
GREEN BUILDINGS 
We recognize there is ongoing growth in the green 
building and green construction sector. Building processes are becoming more efcient and materials both less environmentally harmful and less carbon intensive. These improvements will expand 
opportunities in green building fnancing. Fifth Third has its own experience with green buildings, with a number of our buildings achieving either LEED® or ENERGY STAR® certifcation. These programs are trusted systems for evaluating the environmental performance of buildings and will provide future opportunities for the Bank. In 2021, Fifth Third provided fnancing to more than $500 million in eligible green buildings. ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
Energy efciency is a core component of sustainability and reduction of carbon emissions. Fifth Third has taken signifcant steps in achieving our goal of reducing operational energy use by 25%. We invested in LED lighting, HVAC upgrades and building controls. 
In 2021, we invested nearly $2 million in energy efciency improvements  that allowed us to use less space and that 
expanded the sustainability of our new construction, renovation and facilities and maintenance operations. We continue to assess new technology that can manage our energy needs better and improve our buildings’ performance. We anticipate clients will pursue energy efciency projects, too, as they move to a low-carbon future, and we will support those endeavors. 
CLEAN TRANSPORTATION 
Fifth Third recognizes the environmental benefts 
of electric transportation and the expected growth of the electric vehicle market. In 2021, Fifth Third originated nearly $200 million in fully-electric vehicle loans.  In addition to Fifth Third’s consumer 
auto business, Fifth Third is helping commercial clients in our leasing business reduce their environmental impact by converting internal combustion (e.g., propane- or diesel-fueled) forklifts to electric. As of Dec. 31, 2021, Fifth Third leased over 6,000 electric forklifts to more than 147 clients across 45 states. For every 10,000 hours of use, electric forklifts emit 120,000 fewer pounds of carbon than internal combustion powered forklifts.* Electric forklifts, with zero local emissions, ensure cleaner, more healthful air, indoors and out. This is good not only for the environment, but also employee health. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
The circular economy is a sustainable economic system that targets zero waste and pollution throughout materials lifecycles. Fifth Third provides fnancing to companies with the aim of substituting virgin raw materials with secondary (recycled) 
materials, including scrap metal recyclers. In 2021, Fifth Third provided fnancing of nearly $200 million in eligible circular economy loans. 
POLLUTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL 
Fifth Third provides fnancing to companies focused 
on solid waste processing and recycling. In 2021, Fifth Third provided fnancing to more than $350 million in eligible pollution prevention and control loans. 
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORIES 
In addition to the environmental categories above, the new environmental and social fnance target includes other categories included in the ICMA Green Bond Principles, including Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management, Climate 
Change Adaption, Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity, and Environmentally Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use. We expect fnancing in these categories will grow through 2030 as customers and communities transition to a low-carbon and sustainable future. 
*”Electric Forklift Conversion Transforms Building Products Manufacturer” Electric Power Research Institute, article 3002000292, December 2013 CONTINUED 36  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
     
   
   -
---2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT 
FEATURE 
Fifth Third Adds Sustainable Home Improvement Financing to 
Foster Sustainable Future 
With the recent acquisition of San Francisco 
based Dividend Finance , a leading national 
provider of solar and sustainable home 
improvement loan fnancing, Fifth Third 
added residential fnancial services to 
boost our eforts to lead the transition to a 
sustainable future. 
With a vision of creating a more efcient 
and sustainable world by enabling more 
investment in renewable energy, Dividend 
pioneered a fnancing model for solar and 
sustainable residential upgrades across the 
United States. The addressable market for 
these kinds of projects is anticipated to be 
$225 billion by 2025. 
Fifth Third can now assist homeowners by 
promoting innovative energy efciency, 
decarbonization and peak energy reduction 
by deploying, integrating and fnancing a wide 
range of distributed energy technologies. 
Dividend Finance President Eric White, said, 
“Dividend was proud and excited to join the 
Fifth Third team. Their focus on tech driven Solar Energy-ecient home improvement 
Battery HVAC Other home improvement 
The technologies include: 
• Smart thermostats. 
• Electric heat pumps and 
boilers. 
• Fuel-cells. 
• Smart electric panels. 
• Solar PV. • Energy storage. 
• Electric vehicle chargers. 
• Energy-efcient windows. 
• Roofng. 
• ENERGY STAR® products. 
• Insulation. “Dividend is 
accelerating the 
energy transition 
with technology-
enabled fnancing 
solutions that 
enable homeowners, commercial 
property owners and energy 
contractors to deploy renewable 
energy resources on properties 
across the country.” 
ERIC WHITE, DIVIDEND PRESIDENT. 
innovation and ESG leadership complemented our 
culture.  Together our companies are providing the 
fnancing, technology platform and residential home 
improvement upgrades to homeowners that will 
signifcantly ease the burden on the national power grid.” 
By relying on the innovative fnancial credit structures 
developed by Dividend Finance, Fifth Third can support 
homeowners through their project from initial sale to 
ongoing post project servicing. These additional services 
will enable Fifth Third to achieve its environmental and 
social target to build an inclusive and sustainable future. 
37  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
-2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
2030 Finance Target—Social Categories 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
Afordable housing, or the lack 
of it, continues to be a persistent problem in many communities within our footprint. Fifth Third provides afordable housing 
solutions for our customers and communities in multiple ways, including: 
• Residential mortgages to low-to-moderate 
income communities. 
• Down Payment Assistance Program (refer to page 73  for additional details). 
• Investments by our Community Development group (refer to pages 73-75  for additional 
details). 
In 2021, Fifth Third provided over $6.6 billion of fnancing in eligible afordable housing. 
ACCESS TO ESSENTIAL SERVICES 
Some communities lack essential 
services such as education and healthcare centers. Fifth Third is committed to improving the well -
being of the communities we serve through economic development, 
revitalization and other essential services to low-to-moderate income communities (refer to pages 70-80  for additional details). In 2021, 
Fifth Third provided fnancing of nearly $500 million for essential services to low-to -
moderate communities. OTHER SOCIAL CATEGORIES 
In addition to the social categories described, the new fnancing target includes other categories from the ICMA Social Bond Principles, such as Access to Basic Infrastructure, 
Employment Generation, Food Security and Sustainable Foods Systems, and Socieconomic Advancement and Empowerment. In 2021, Fifth Third provided more than $46 million in these categories. Contents 
2030 Finance Target— 
Sustainability-linked Loans 
Fifth Third participates in credit facilities 
with the concept of “green” or “sustainable” 
pricing, whereby the borrower is able to 
achieve reduced pricing by meeting certain 
sustainability metrics. These metrics can be 
a certain percentage of “green” assets in a 
portfolio for a real estate customer or GHG 
emission reductions for other corporate 
banking clients. 
Fifth Third believes incentivizing customers 
to achieve agreed upon sustainability or other 
ESG metrics will help support them through 
the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
In 2021, Fifth Third participated in 27 
sustainability-linked loans totaling nearly 
$27 billion, with Fifth Third’s share reaching 
over $1 billion. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
2030 Finance Target— 
Sustainability Bonds 
Fifth Third’s Debt Capital Markets team is supporting our commercial clients by underwriting sustainable fnance bond oferings, whose proceeds are applied to eligible projects under principles of the International Capital Markets Association. In 2021, Fifth Third participated in 16 sustainable fnance bond transactions (15 green, one sustainability-linked) totaling $8.4 billion, with Fifth Third’s share totaling about $418 million. 
“In the ever-changing world of ESG, Fifth Third 
Securities stands ready to advise and assist our 
clients through their ESG journey.” 
MARIA YAMAT, BOND CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP HEAD. 
CONTINUED 38  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
The Fifth Third Green Bond 
Fifth Third published its Sustainable Bond Framework with a second-party 
opinion from Sustainalytics, which indicated that the framework is credible, 
impactful and aligned with the ICMA principles.* 
In October 2021, Fifth Third issued its inaugural Green Bond and became 
the frst U.S. fnancial institution with under $250 billion in assets to issue an ESG bond of any 
type. The Fifth Third Green Bond is aligned to the Green Bond Principles published by the ICMA to 
defne the use of proceeds, process for project evaluation and selection, management of proceeds, 
and reporting. The bond will fund eligible projects in the following categories: green buildings, 
renewable energy, energy efciency and clean transportation. 
Key Transaction Terms 
Issuer Fifth Third Bancorp 
Security Ratings Baa1 / BBB+ / A- ; Stable / stable / stable (Moody's / S&P / Fitch) 
Security Type Senior unsecured 
Size $500mm 
Tenor 6NC5 Fixed-to-Floating (Compunded SOFR back-end) 
Maturity Date November 1, 2027 
Optional
Redemption One-time par call on November 1, 2026. 
30-day par call prior to maturity. 
To fnance or refnance, in whole or in part, Eligible Green Projects in 
accordance with the Sustainable Bond Eligibility Criteria set forth in the Fifth Third Bancorp Sustainable Bond Framework (October 2021). Use of 
Proceeds Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Wealth & Asset Management 
While value-based investing has been used 
for decades, there is a growing demand 
from both retail and institutional investors 
to apply ESG principles in making their 
decisions. According to the Deloitte Center 
for Financial Services, ESG-mandated assets 
could make up half of all managed assets in 
the United States by 2025.** 
Traditionally, socially responsible investing 
sought only to exclude those companies with 
negative attributes from a portfolio. Today, 
ESG investing can complement a portfolio by 
giving exposure to companies that promote 
and achieve sustainability; encourage and 
measure corporate responsibility; and have 
a positive impact on employees, clients, and 
their communities. Impact investing targets 
a specifc area of need such as clean energy, 
clean water, or social improvements through 
targeted community development. 
Consideration of ESG issues is not new 
to Fifth Third. We are able to provide our 
clients with options to invest in ESG-focused 
strategies across asset classes, countries, 
sectors and market capitalization. When 
designing a portfolio, we make decisions that 
refect our clients’ beliefs by using leading 
third-party research solutions designed 
for investors and money managers who 
wish to integrate environmental, social and 
governance factors into their investment 
process, as well as to exclude companies for 
various business involvement. ESG Investing Thought 
Leadership 
In 2022, Fifth Third’s Wealth 
& Asset Management team published a whitepaper on “The Case for ESG and Responsible, Sustainable Investing” for our institutional investors. The purpose was to educate readers on the evolution of ESG investing, the reasons for the sector’s rapid growth and describe where ESG is headed next. It also included insights and best practices as to why the Bank believes, as a fduciary, that ESG investing is prudent to consider. 
We provide both active and passive ESG 
investment strategies and continue to research 
and provide new and exciting options as the 
marketplace evolves. Fifth Third also ofers 
clients the ability to screen for controversial 
business involvement and can help provide 
strategies that have a targeted impact based 
on our clients’ needs. As of Dec. 31, 2021, 
Fifth Third had $1.8 billion in assets under 
management in various ESG and other socially responsible investments. 
**Deloitte, “Responsible investment management, The Dbriefs Investment Management series,” May 13, 2020. *Refer to Fifth Third’s investor relations website for details. 39  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Supporting Sustainability in Our Communities 
In our headquarters city of Cincinnati, Fifth 
Third supports the Green Umbrella regional 
sustainability alliance  through membership, 
conference sponsorship and board service. 
Fifth Third has been a key sponsor for the 
Midwest Regional Sustainability Summit , 
which in 2022 featured Kristin Baja who 
supports cities to advance climate resilience 
planning and implementation. Fifth Third also is 
a founding member of the Greater Cincinnati 
Green Business Council  and the Cincinnati 
2030 District. 
In 2021, Fifth Third pledged to be an active 
member of the Smart Columbus Acceleration 
Partner Program  by proactively advancing 
community sustainability and competitiveness. 
By signing the pledge, Fifth Third committed 
to provide education and investments in 
sustainable transportation, renewable energy 
and digitalization. 
We also support the sustainability journeys 
of our employees and communities. In 2021, 
we hosted employee-focused electronic 
waste recycling events at our Madisonville 
campus in Cincinnati and our Grand Rapids, 
Michigan, campus,  which together collected 
more than 7,000 pounds of old equipment. 
The events kept these materials out of landflls 
and ensured responsible disposition. In 2020 and 2021, Fifth Third co-hosted county-wide 
compost bin and rain barrel sale events to 
help citizens purchase the supplies needed to compost and reduce water waste at home. In 
2021, we co-hosted a household hazardous 
waste take back event to help residents 
responsibly dispose of toxic materials. More 
than 95,000 pounds of hazardous products 
were collected and safely disposed. For 
its eforts, Fifth Third received the 2021 
Outstanding Partner Award from Hamilton County R3SOURCE, the county’s waste and 
recycling agency. See page 48 for details. 
Fifth Third is proud to be the lead sponsor of 
Chicago’s “Bike the Drive,” which we have 
sponsored since 2019. This event encourages 
the community to use active transportation 
modes and serves as a fundraiser for the Active 
Transportation Alliance, which works to advance 
active transportation modes year-round. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Employees of Fifth Third Bank recycled nearly 8,000 pounds of materials 
at two employee electronics waste events in September 2021. 
40   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
--
-
-2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Climate Risk Management 
Our organization-wide focus on managing climate-related risks 
is overseen directly by the Board of Directors. 
Governance 
Fifth Third’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing corporate governance, strategy and 
risks, which include risks and opportunities related to climate. 
In fulflling its responsibilities, the Board has delegated responsibilities to the following committees: 
• Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee – to monitor and oversee governance 
matters, including ESG-related commitments, issues and strategies. 
• Risk and Compliance Committee  – to monitor and oversee risks, including those related to 
climate. 
• Audit Committee  – to monitor and oversee management fnancial statements and audit 
functions, including climate-related disclosures. 
Fifth Third Appoints First Climate Risk Ofcer 
In September 2021, Fifth Third appointed Michele Mullins as the Bank’s frst climate risk ofcer. Creating the role expanded Mullins’ duties as director of enterprise risk governance and business support, and it underscored the Bank’s commitment to managing climate risk. Her responsibilities now include integrating climate risk considerations into Fifth Third’s Risk Management Framework, developing the Bank’s climate risk identifcation and monitoring program, as well as scenario analysis. Mullins partnered with Ceres to lead education sessions that informed our senior management and Board of Directors about the range of climate related disclosures and practices in the industry. Michele has been with the Bank for over 20 years and has served in a variety of management roles in Risk Management and the Commercial line of business. 
Refer to the Enterprise Risk Management section beginning on page 88  in Governance for further details on Fifth Third’s ERM program and policies and our 2021 TCFD Report for 
additional details on our climate risk management. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Sustainable 
Finance & 
Strategy 
Council Board Risk & Compliance 
Committee Board Audit Committee 
Disclosure Council Board of Directors 
Capital 
Committee Operational 
Risk 
Committee Corporate 
Credit 
Committee Management 
Compliance 
Committee Loan Loss 
Reserve 
Committee Assets & 
Liabilities 
Committee Corporate 
Responsibility 
& Reputation 
Committee Board Nominating & 
Corporate Governance 
Committee 
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance (ESG) 
Committee Enterprise Risk 
Management 
Committee 
Climate Risk Council 
Climate Risk Council provides updates and recommendations for climate related risk management 
activities to our Risk Management Committees and Enterprise Risk Management Comittee. 
Climate Governance 
Working Group Climate Metrics & Data 
Working Group Environmental & Social 
Due Diligence 
Working Group Climate Scenario 
Analysis Working 
Group 
The Climate Risk Council also partners with sub committees and councils that report into relevant risk 
management committees to further support establishing climate related risk management activities, 
such as measurement through scenario anlysis, key risk indicators, concentration limits, etc. 
CONTINUED 41      
 
       
 
     
  
   
   
    
  
    
    
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT 
Risk Identifcation and Management 
Fifth Third identifed climate-related risks as an “emerging” risk in 2017. Since then, we have updated the Enterprise Risk Management Framework to defne climate risk 
for the Bank, and physical and transition risk was incorporated into each of our risk types to describe how climate risk could impact inherent or residual risk. 
Risk 
Type Defnition Physical Risk Examples Transition Risk Examples Time Horizons* CreditRisk to current or projected fnancial condition and resilience 
resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its fnancial or contractual obligations to the Bank. Diminished ability to pay due to loss of income or devalued assets, resulting from extreme weather events or long-term climate changes. Decline in fnancial health within susceptible industries as a result of the global governmental and economic shift toward a low-carbon economy. Short 
Medium Long LiquidityRisk to current or projected fnancial condition or overall safety 
and soundness due to the inability (or perceived inability) to meet obligations when they come due. Deposit runof to fund recovery from signifcant adverse weather events. Assets priced incorrectly on a relative basis driven by transition risk factors. Medium 
Long Interest
Rate Risk to earnings or capital arising from movement of interest rates. 
Movements in interest rates cause changes in the profle of assets and liabilities as interest rates fuctuate. Changes in the time horizon of principal and interest cash fows from assets due to signifcant adverse weather events. Demand for banking products and services changes in response to climate-related societal changes, changing the profle of the Bank’s balance sheet and earnings sources. Medium 
Long PriceRisk to earnings or capital arising from changes in the value of 
fnancial instruments and portfolios due to movements in interest rates, volatilities, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices. Adverse weather events, such as hurricanes and ice storms, causing more frequent energy supply disruptions, afecting prices and volatilities of related commodities. Low-carbon transition impact on commodities may cause infationary pressures which could further impact the direction and volatility of interest rates. Medium 
Long OperationalRisk to current or projected fnancial condition and resilience 
arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct, or adverse external events. Sustained operational disruptions due to acute weather events damaging or disrupting the operations of facilities. Increased costs for building and operating climate-resilient facilities. Short 
Medium Long ReputationRisk to current or projected fnancial condition, resilience or brand 
health arising from negative public opinion. Stakeholder scrutiny due to the inability to provide timely support to customers and employees impacted by extreme weather events. Negative public perception for lending exposures in carbon intensive sectors, industries impacted by transitions, or the Bank’s fnanced emissions performance. Short 
Medium 
Long StrategicRisk arising from adverse business decisions or improper 
implementation of those decisions that could result in negative impacts to long-term earnings, capital sufciency, resiliency or competitive position of the Bank. Flawed assumptions or poor strategy execution in geographies with increasing exposure to acute and chronic severe weather or sea-level rise. Untimely adjustments to the Bank’s strategy in response to changes in regulatory requirements and shifting markets. Medium 
Long Legal &
Regulatory 
ComplianceRisk of legal or regulatory sanctions, fnancial loss or damage 
to reputation as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules and other regulatory requirements, internal policies and procedures, standards of best practice or codes of conduct, and principles of integrity. Inability to meet compliance timelines or requirements due to business disruptions from acute weather events. Difculty implementing new climate-related regulations on bank disclosures, operations, or activities. Medium 
Long 
*Short : Operating planning, 1 year or less; Medium : Strategic planning, 1-5 years; Long : Climate scenario planning, 5 years or more. 42  
 
 
   
 
 
 
     -
-
2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
FEATURE 
Fifth Third Partners 
with EcoVadis 
In 2022, Fifth Third began 
partnering with EcoVadis, a leading 
evidence based sustainability 
ratings provider, to engage with 
and monitor the ESG strategies and 
performance of our largest third 
party relationships. 
Fifth Third is 
committed to 
developing 
and reporting metrics that demonstrate the 
progress of our third parties in managing 
their environmental and social risks and 
reducing their carbon footprints. 
At the launch of this efort, more than 
29% of our top suppliers are already 
being evaluated for their actions across 
a broad array of ESG performance 
criteria.* Through this new framework we 
know that more than 18% of top suppliers 
are signatories to the United Nations 
Global Compact. More than 22% of our top 
suppliers are reporting on their carbon 
emissions, with a majority of those reporting 
Scope 3 emissions. Moving forward, Fifth 
Third will seek to integrate more of its 
suppliers into this process and seek ways 
to engage suppliers in an efort to improve 
performance in key criteria. Environmental & Social Risks Across 
the Value Chain 
UPSTREAM - THIRD PARTIES AND 
SUPPLIERS 
Fifth Third relies on third parties for a variety of 
products and services to support our operations 
and the successful delivery of products and 
services to customers. Our Supplier Code of 
Conduct  sets forth expectations for ethical, 
human rights, labor and environmental 
standards throughout our supplier network. 
Our suppliers are required to uphold these 
responsible business practices by encouraging 
the same standards among their next-level 
suppliers. Suppliers are expected to comply 
with the content of this code, along with all 
applicable laws, regulations and standards 
of the states and countries in which they are 
headquartered and do business. Suppliers may be asked to provide written afrmation that they have read, understand and will abide by the 
terms of this code. 
DOWNSTREAM - CUSTOMERS 
Recognizing the heightened environmental 
risks inherent in the energy sector, in 
2013, we implemented a component to 
assess environmental risk for new lending 
opportunities. In addition to such risks as 
the client’s management of water and air 
emissions, we also evaluate social risks such as 
worker safety and community engagement. In 
2020, we published our Environmental and 
Social Policy  that identifes sectors that pose Contents 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
& SOCIAL POLICY SUPPLIER CODE 
OF CONDUCT 
Fifth Third Bancorp 
Issued October 2020 Supplier
Code of 
Conduct 
heightened environmental and social risks. The 
policy, which is updated at least annually and 
approved by our Board of Directors, provides 
guidance on clients in sectors and activities 
that are prohibited or that are subject to 
enhanced customer due diligence and may 
require escalated review and approval from 
senior leaders. Fifth Third’s climate risk program 
supports the lines of business in periodic 
training to our front line employees primarily 
responsible for identifying and evaluating risks, 
including the environmental and social risks inherent within their businesses. 
As of March 31, 2022, we have reviewed 78 
client relationships in sectors with elevated environmental and social risks, which 
therefore require enhanced due diligence.  The 
reviews have focused mainly on energy sector 
clients. Nearly two-thirds of these customers 
already have internal ESG policies in place, and 
nearly half have public ESG statements. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
*Top suppliers defned as those supporting over $1 million in spending in reporting year. Reporting percent of suppliers based on percent of total spend. 43  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Operational Sustainability 
Operational sustainability, 
the reduction of our own 
environmental and carbon 
footprint, has been key to our 
environmental sustainability 
program since its inception 
in 2010. 
In addressing our own environmental impact, 
we better prepare our organization for future 
changes by reducing our exposure and risk to 
decarbonization, energy market volatility and 
potential carbon pricing scenarios. Operational Sustainability Goals 
In 2017, Fifth Third set fve bold sustainability 
goals  to help prioritize our environmental 
sustainability eforts. This included targeted 
goals to reduce our energy use and location 
based GHG emissions by 25%, to reduce 
our water consumption and waste sent to 
a landfll by 20%, and to purchase 100% 
renewable power. To date, we have successfully 
achieved four of these goals (energy, water, 
GHG emissions, and renewable power). 
Although we have not yet achieved our waste 
reduction goal, we have made great progress 
in reducing our waste by more than 1 million 
pounds annually. Further, we are committed to 
continuing our work in this area, increasingly 
reducing the amount of material we use and 
recycling as much as we can. 
Original 2022 Sustainability Goals 
ACHIEVED 
25% GOAL ACHIEVED 
20% GOAL ACHIEVED 
25% GOAL WASTE 
26 % WATER 
18% ENERGY GHG 
26 % 50 % 
toward 
20% goal 
100 % 
RENEWABLE 
POWER 
ACHIEVED 
Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
New 2030 Goals 
Building on those fve original goals, we were excited this year to announce a new set of goals to be achieved by 2030.* They include bolder commitments that will help guide our continuing eforts and ensure progress in vital areas of operational sustainability. 
REDUCE 
Location-based 
GHG emissions* by Energy 
use by Paper 
use by 
and purchase 
remaining paper 
from certiﬁed 
sources 
Potable water 
use by 
*For Fifth Third’s Scopes 1 & 2 emissions. 
Divert 
75% 
of waste from 
going to landﬁlls Continue 
purchasing 
100% 
renewable 
power 
*GHG emissions, energy, paper and water goals are relative to a 2014 baseline. CONTINUED 44  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Reducing Our Greenhouse   
Gas Emissions Fifth Third includes all Scope 1, Scope 2, and 
Scope 3 business travel (category 6) emissions 
in ou
r “operational” GHG emissions and carbon 
Beyond developing operational sustainability neutral achievement. These emissions are 
goals, Fifth Third has continued to calculate primarily generated through power and climate 
and report on its corporate greenhouse gas control in our buildings (mostly using electricity 
emissions. and fossil gas) and our business travel. Since we 
began measuring these emissions in 2014, we Fifth Third uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol have reduced our operational GHG emissions methodology* in calculating our operational by over 46%.  We began ofsetting our Scope GHG footprint. Our calculations have been 2 emissions in 2010 by purchasing RECs and independently verifed by a third party since mitigating our Scope 1 and Scope 3 business 2014.** travel emissions in 2020 by purchasing verifed 
carbon ofsets. 
Operational GHG emissions 
180 
160 
140 
Remaining 
emissions 
ofset 120 
through 
purchased 100 
80 RECs and 
carbon 
60 ofsets as 
part of 
40 carbon 
neutrality 
20 achievement. 
0
 Scope 1 emissions after carbon ofsets Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel after carbon ofsets
 Market-based Scope 2 emissions (after RECs)  I ndicates emissions ofset MT CO2E (IN THOUSANDS) 46% reduction in 
location-based emissions. 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Contents 
Scope 1  covers “direct GHG emissions” from 
sources owned or controlled by a company, 
including fossil gas used for heating, refrigerants, 
diesel and fuels used in corporate vehicles. 
Scope 2  covers “indirect GHG emissions” from 
purchased or acquired electricity and similar 
sources. There are two accounting methods for 
Scope 2 emissions: 
• The location-based method uses average 
emissions intensity for the electric power grids on which energy consumption occurs. 
• The market-based method allows companies to account for power they have contracted to buy, including through the purchase of unbundled renewable energy certifcates or through contractual agreements that lead to new renewable power plants and the bundled RECs they generate. 
We report our Scope 2 emissions under both 
methods to illustrate the impact of our renewable 
energy commitment. Fifth Third does not 
generate any Scope 2 market-based emissions 
through the purchase of 100% Green-E certifed 
RECs from renewable sources. 
Scope 3  covers 15 categories of other indirect 
GHG emissions, including eight upstream 
categories and seven downstream categories. 
Since 2014, Fifth Third has measured our business 
travel emissions (category 6) as we consider this 
in our “operational” GHG footprint and carbon 
neutrality achievement. This includes emissions related to air, rail, reimbursed personal vehicle 
and rental travel. These emissions fell as business Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
travel restrictions were put in place during the 
pandemic to ensure the safety of our workforce. 
Although business travel has resumed, Fifth Third 
continues to use videoconferencing and other 
technology to reduce the need for business travel. 
Category 15, 
investments, is particularly 
relevant for 
fnancial institutions and includes emissions 
associated with loans and investments. In 
March 2021, Fifth Third joined the Partnership 
for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), 
a partnership of fnancial institutions that 
work together to develop and implement 
a consistent and transparent standard for 
reporting these emissions. Fifth Third is 
committed to measuring and reporting on 
these emissions, beginning with a focus on 
carbon-intensive sectors in our commercial 
portfolio. Providing this additional information 
will ofer greater transparency to third-party stakeholders and will help us focus on those 
categories that have the greatest impact and 
greatest potential for reductions. 
*Prepared in accordance with the “World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 and 2) and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an 
amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard” and “WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard).” 
**Third party verifcation statements are available at https://ir.53.com/esg/additional-disclosures CONTINUED 45  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -
--2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT 
FEATURE 
Achieving Carbon Neutrality In Our Operations**MT CO2e 
50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 
Purchased goods & services (category 1) 
Capital goods (category 2) 
Fuel- and energy related activities (category 3) 
Upstream transportation/distribution (category 4) 
Waste generated in operations (category 5) 
Business travel (category 6) 
Employee commuting (category 7) 
Downstream leased assets (category 13) 
Other Scope 3 GHG emissions Reporting on each 
In 2021, Fifth Third began measuring other of these categories 
Scope 3 emissions categories that are demonstrates Fifth considered relevant to Fifth Third, including 
all of the other upstream categories. Five Third’s commitment to 
downstream categories considered not relevant transparency and the to Fifth Third are not measured or reported.* 
broader impact of our Of the reported categories, category 1 
(purchased goods and services) and category products and services. 
2 (capital goods) make up more than 80% of 
reported Scope 3 emissions, more than four emissions across our value chain. Reporting 
times greater than our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. on each of these categories demonstrates Fifth 
Our reported category 1 and 2 emissions were Third’s commitment to transparency and the 
calculated using over $1.7 billion of spend data broader impact of our products and services 
across nearly 14,000 third-parties. These two and to the potential to drive further emissions 
categories highlight the opportunity for reduction. Refer to the Environmental Data 
continued supplier engagement to reduce table on pages 49-50  for emission details. 
*Not relevant for Fifth Third includes downstream transportation/distribution, processing of sold products, use of sold products, end-of-life treatment of sold product, and franchises. Fifth Third has been carbon neutral 
for our operations since 2020. 
This was made possible through 
continued eforts to reduce our own 
environmental footprint through 
efciency investments and other 
projects, and by purchasing verifed 
carbon ofets and renewable power, 
which began in 2010. 
As an organization, we are now carbon 
neutral in our operations and removing as 
much carbon dioxide from the environment 
as we emit. This includes emissions related to all of our buildings (including data centers), 
corporate vehicles, and business travel. In 
terms of GHG accounting, this includes all 
Scope 1 emissions, all Scope 2 emissions and Scope 3 business travel emissions. This was 
achieved by reducing our corporate carbon 
emissions, purchasing 100% renewable power 
and buying verifed carbon ofsets from 
projects within our Consumer Bank footprint 
to address our remaining emissions. We were 
frst among our banking peers to achieve 
carbon neutrality. 
The carbon ofsets for 2021 were purchased 
from two projects in partnership with 
ClimeCo, a leading global environmental 
credit project developer. The Recast 
Energy biomass project is a thermal energy 
**For Fifth Third's Scope 1, Scope 2 and business travel under Scope 3 emissions. 
generation conversion project in Louisville, 
Kentucky. The project converted a coal fred 
system to a biomass system using locally 
available forestry and agricultural cellulose 
based residues. Additional carbon ofsets were 
acquired from Ascend Performance Materials 
for a project in Florida that reduces GHG 
emissions at a single adipic acid plant through 
the installation of a new absorption column that 
destroys N2O emissions above the baseline destruction rate that would otherwise have 
been vented to the atmosphere. 
These projects met Fifth Third’s criteria for 
carbon ofsets, including being registered 
with leading carbon ofset registry (Verifed 
Carbon Standard, Climate Action Reserve) and 
independently verifed (First Environmental, 
Ruby Canyon Environmental) in accordance 
with industry best practices. 
46   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Purchasing 100% Renewable Power 
Fifth Third recognizes the importance of the 
transition to renewable energy and has been 
increasing its use of renewable power since 
2010. In the early days of our renewable energy 
strategy, Fifth Third purchased renewable 
energy certifcates, known as RECs, to ofset 
our energy consumption. In 2017, Fifth Third set 
a goal to purchase 100% renewable power, a 
goal we achieved in 2019 with the opening of 
the 80 MWac/120 MWdc Aulander Holloman 
solar facility. This project was facilitated through 
a virtual power purchase agreement signed 
by the Bank. The PPA’s March 2018 signing 
facilitated the construction of this solar feld by 
guaranteeing that Fifth Third would purchase 
all of the electricity generated at an agreed 
price, thereby enabling the developer to secure 
funding and complete the project. In return for 
guaranteeing to purchase the energy produced, 
Fifth Third receives all the RECs generated 
by the project.* In 2021, the solar generation 
from the project was more than 190,000 
MWh, enough to power over 24,000 homes or 
equivalent to removing emissions from over 
29,000 passenger vehicles.** 
Reducing Our Energy Use 
We have taken signifcant steps to reduce our 
energy use, and achieve our goal by 2022 of 
a 25% reduction. We made improvements in 
space utilization and in the sustainability of new 
construction, renovation and facility-related operations and maintenance practices, including 
adding advanced building control technology to 
more than 400 locations in the past three years. 
These controls help us monitor and manage our 
largest category of energy use (heating and 
cooling). We used third-party analytics partners 
to assess the performance at each location and 
identify opportunities for optimization. Contents 
To gain deeper insight into our energy 
usage across our footprint, we have begun 
benchmarking properties through the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency’s Portfolio Manager tool. In doing so, we identifed many 
locations that qualifed for ENERGY STAR® 
certifcation and have had 63 locations Energy 
Star certifed by a third party. 
Our rollout of electric vehicle charging continued 
this past year. To support employees that wish to make the transition to electric vehicles, in 2021 
we installed charging stations at our Corporate 
Service Center campus in Grand Rapids, Michigan, 
as well as the Fifth Third Center in Cincinnati. 
Across three campuses, employees in 2021 
utilized more than 4,000 hours of electric vehicle 
charging (18 MWh). Fifth Third purchased 18 
MWh in additional RECs to ofset the energy 
consumption from employee vehicle charging. 
Fifth Third plans to continue its deployment of EV 
charging technology at new locations, including 
for the frst time at a retail location. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third recognized 
with Battle of the Buildings 
Award 
Fifth Third was recognized by the U.S. 
Green Building Council of West Michigan 
with a special Energy Opportunist Award 
for its energy reduction eforts. Of special 
note was the Bank’s installation of upgraded 
lighting at its Corporate Service Center 
in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The project included retroftting more than 6,000 
fxtures and an integrated lighting controls system that was proposed, approved and 
completed in 2020, resulting in an over 80% 
reduction in interior lighting load. 
63 Fifth Third locations 
are ENERGY STAR® 
certifed. 
Fifth Third’s percent of power from renewable sources: 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 
31.7% 32.2% 33.6% 37.7% 32.2% 97.4% 100% 100% 
*Although we intended to retire the RECs received from this project towards our 100% renewable goal, in 2020 we began swapping these RECs with other Green-E certifed RECs from other renewable energy projects in the U.S. that were retired towards our 100% renewable goal. 
**Source: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator (last updated February 2021). 47  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
ENVIRONMENT 
Reducing Our Water Use 
Fifth Third recognizes that water is a community 
resource and should be managed responsibly. 
Further, the movement and transport of water 
typically requires signifcant energy and generates 
greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing water use 
has been a key part of Fifth Third’s sustainability 
eforts. Since we began calculating our water 
use in 2014, our company-wide consumption is 
down by more than 100 million gallons. 
Much of Fifth Third’s water consumption is 
the result of irrigation that helps maintain 
landscapes at our retail locations. While we 
maintain a high standard for exterior spaces, we 
also work to manage our water use responsibly. 
With this goal, a smart irrigation program was 
launched in 2018 to help manage and control 
exterior water use,  giving the Bank better 
control over irrigation schedules and controller 
functionality. The system also monitors real-time 
weather. After a rain event, the system makes a 
correction to reduce irrigation watering. To date, 
Fifth Third has installed smart controllers at 
more than 250 locations. 
Managing Waste 
In the last three years, Fifth Third has reduced 
the amount of waste it sends to landflls by 1 
million pounds,  more than 17% from our 2018 
baseline. Moving forward, we will work to expand 
our recycling and diversion eforts. Our new goal 
is to expand waste diversion from landflls to at 
least 75%. This commitment will require greater 
focus on ofce waste and expanded focus to new 
waste streams. With the ongoing construction and renovation 
of facilities across our portfolio, Fifth Third 
continues to focus on the management of its 
construction and demolition activities as a 
key part of its waste stream. Fifth Third has 
established diversion requirements for partners 
to ensure material is being managed responsibly. 
As a result, in 2021, more than 7 million pounds 
of construction and demolition waste was 
diverted from landflls for reuse. 
At our Madisonville campus in Cincinnati (our 
largest campus), we have instituted food waste 
composting as an additional waste mitigation 
strategy, resulting in thousands of pounds of 
organic waste diverted each year. 
Reducing Paper 
Fifth Third is committed to reducing the 
amount of paper we use, with a goal of 
reducing usage by 75% by 2030. While we 
recognize that paper remains a frequently used material for general ofce activities and in 
documenting and processing customer lending 
and fnance activities, we see opportunities 
for continued reduction in paper use. Fifth 
Third’s strategic priority to accelerate the digital 
transformation of both front ofce and back 
ofce activities will drive progress to our 2030 
goal. Our focus on secure destruction and 
recycling of paper remains a priority. We recycled 
more than 8 million pounds of paper in 2021. 
Fifth Third is also taking steps to be more 
deliberate about the type of paper it uses. We 
recently shifted our ofce copy paper product 
selection to a product made from 30% post-Contents 
consumer recycled content and certifcation 
from the Forest Stewardship Council. The 
environmental impact* is estimated to save 1,860 
trees, 150,000 gallons of water and 810,000 
pounds of carbon dioxide equivalent. The FSC 
certifcation also helps ensure that virgin paper we 
use is from responsibly managed forests. 
Mail in Recycling 
The past year also marked the start of a new 
retail recycling solution as a group of retail 
branches successfully piloted a mail-in program 
facilitated by recycling industry leader g2 
Revolution. Through the program, cardboard 
boxes are mailed to each location in which to 
collect recyclables. Once full, the box is closed 
and mailed to the recycler. Mail-in recycling can 
be much more efcient than standard weekly 
collection, which typically requires a set pickup 
schedule, regardless of volume. The company 
ofsets the carbon emissions related to the return of materials, reducing the environmental impact of the process. With the success of this initiative, 
the Bank is exploring expanding it in 2022. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third Named 
Hamilton County 2021 Most 
Outstanding Partner 
In recognition 
of the Bank’s 
waste 
reduction 
eforts, Fifth 
Third was 
recently 
recognized by Hamilton County R3Source, 
a division of the Hamilton County 
Department of Environmental Services 
in Ohio, with a 2021 Most Outstanding 
Partner award. This award recognized 
several collaborative eforts between 
Fifth Third and Hamilton County, including 
hosting two signature events for Hamilton 
County R3Source at the Bank’s Madisonville 
campus: the distribution of community 
compost bins and rain barrels, and a 
household hazardous waste disposal 
event.  As part of this partnership, Hamilton 
County R3Source was able to serve 
over 2,000 families, distribute 318 new 
compost bins  and collect 95,380 pounds 
of hazardous waste for proper and safe 
disposal. Fifth Third also participated 
in a 2021 waste audit facilitated by the 
Hamilton County R3Source team at the Bank’s operations center in Cincinnati’s Madisonville neighborhood. 
*Environmental impact estimates were made using the Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 4.0. For more information, visit papercalculator.org . 48  
  ENVIRONMENT 
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Environmental Data 
The table below includes recent environmental data. Environmental data prior to 2017 is available at ir.53.com/esg . 
Unit 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Normalizing Metrics 
Employee headcount Full-time 
Equivalent (FTE) 19,112 19,872 19,869 17,437 18,125 
Square footage Square Feet (SF) 9,419,349 9,488,471 10,167,362 9,399,846 10,092,544 
Greenhouse Gas Emissionsa, b, c 
Scope 1 emissions MT CO2e 12,479 12,995 13,233 14,046 12,116 
Scope 2 emissions (Location-based) MT CO2e 64,927 72,695 79,417 91,519 94,617 
Scope 2 reduction (Location-based) compared to 2014 baseline % 51.6 45.8 40.8 31.8 29.5 
Scope 2 emissions (Market-based) MT CO2e 0 0 2,108 61,380 58,315 
Scope 2 reduction (Market-based) compared to 2014 baseline % 100.0 100.0 97.7 31.8 35.2 
Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel (category 6) MT CO2e 7,109 3,952 12,271 12,904 10,249 
Total Scope 1, Scope 2 (Market-based), & Scope 3 (category 6) emissions MT CO2e 19,588 16,947 27,612 88,330 80,680 
Carbon ofsets MT CO2e 19,588 16,947 0 0 0 
Net Operational GHG emissions MT CO2e 0 0 27,612 88,330 80,680 
Additional Scope 3 emissions: 
Purchased goods and services (category 1) MT CO2e 297,277 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Capital goods (category 2) MT CO2e 58,754 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Fuel- and energy-related activities (category 3) MT CO2e 21,989 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Upstream transportation/distribution (category 4) MT CO2e 3,060 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Waste generated in operations (category 5) MT CO2e 3,294 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
CONTINUED 49   Original 2022 Sustainability Goalsc,d,e 
(Key Performance Indicators) Greenhouse Gas Emissionsa, b, c 
Renewable Powerc,f 
Energy Consumptionc Additional Scope 3 emissions (continued): 
Business travel (category 6) MT CO2e See above See above See above See above See above 
Employee commuting (category 7) MT CO2e 14,436 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Upstream leased assets (category 8) MT CO2e 0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Downstream leased assets (category 13) MT CO2e 570 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Total additional Scope 3 emissions MT CO2e 399,380 N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Energy consumption per square foot kBTU/SF 72.8 74.8 82.0 84.4 79.4 
Water consumption per square foot Gallons/SF 23.0 21.2 23.9 26.2 27.9 
Landfll waste per FTE Pound/FTE 444.8 464.0 493.4 540.9 N/A 
Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHGs (Location-based) MT CO2e 53,489 62,633 73,087 75,397 74,473 
Percent of power from renewable sourcesd % 100.0 100.0 97.4 32.2 37.7 
Renewable Energy Certifcates (RECs) retired MWh 147,048 153,164 149,408 54,000 65,000 
Electricity MWh 147,048 153,163 153,334 167,541 172,619 
Fossil gas MWh 58,151 60,613 59,619 66,900 59,129 
Chilled water MWh 0 0 98 175 306 
Diesel MWh 370 292 233 1,648 215 
Gasoline MWh 53 31 32 25 N/A 
Jet fuel MWh 4,054 2,241 5,303 5,130 4,864 
Total energy use MWh 209,676 216,340 218,618 241,419 237,133 
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT 
Unit 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
CONTINUED 50 2021 
Water Consumptionc 
Water usage Kilo Gallons 139,195 136,524 161,108 195,058  211,268 
Wastec 
Recycled/composted material Tons 1,784 1,823 1,894 1,723 N/A 
Secure shred paper recycling Tons 3,976 3,935  3,631 3,942 4,034 
Municipal solid waste Tons 3,912 4,257 4,526 4,716 N/A 
Diversion rate % 59.6% 57.5 55.0 54.6 N/A 
Other Metrics 
CDP Climate Change Survey Score Letter grade A- A- A- C C 
ENERGY STAR® certifed square feet Square Feet (SF) 298,816 217,252 0 0 0 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Unit 2020 2019 2018 2 017 
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
ENVIRONMENT  
N/A = Not available. 
MT = Metric tons Totals shown above may not foot due to rounding. 
aScope 1, 2, and 3 emissions have been independently verifed. Verifcation statements are available in the Additional Disclosures section 
of ir.53.com/esg . For 2021, carbon ofsets were obtained from Recast Energy biomass project (Kentucky) and Ascend Performance 
Materials (Florida). All carbon ofsets are registered with a leading carbon ofset registry and independently verifed in accordance with 
industry best practices. 
bUpstream leased assets (Scope 3, category 8) emissions and some downstream leased assets (Scope 3, category 13) are calculated and 
reported within Scope 1 and 2 emissions. cInformation has been independently verifed. Verifcation statements are available in the Additional Disclosures section of ir.53.com/esg . 
dConsumption information from locations acquired as part of merger with MB Financial are not included in energy, water, and waste KPIs 
and historic related calculations, but is represented in 2021 data in sections for Renewable Power Use, and Energy Consumption. 
eEnergy and water consumption KPI calculations are calculated per square foot for owned or ground-leased buildings where we receive 
a utility bill. GHG emissions KPI is location-based using national average emissions factors for all locations where we receive a utility bill. Landfll waste is calculated per FTE and only for locations where we receive waste bill and data. Verifcation statements are available in the Additional Disclosures section of ir.53.com/esg . 
fAll RECs have been Green-E certifed and retired. 
51  
 70  
 
  -2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Social 
Fifth Third prioritizes and supports the 
well being of its employees, communities 
and customers. When we take care 
of our employees, we know that they 
will, in turn, take care of our customers 
and support our eforts to keep our 
communities thriving. 
Our Company and culture are grounded in 
our core values. These values drive us to 
connect people to the resources they need 
to lead healthy, fulflling lives and pursue their career and fnancial goals. In 2021, 
we strengthened our commitments in the 
Social space as we continued to confront 
ongoing challenges. IN THIS SECTION 
• 53  Inclusion and Diversity
•  61 Employees 
• Communities
•Financial and Economic Inclusion
•Financial Education, Access and Stability
•Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy
52  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  ’2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Inclusion and Diversity 
Fifth Third believes that 
inclusion and diversity 
are essential to living our 
core values;  serving our 
customers; delivering fnancial 
performance; and being 
recognized as a leader in 
building an engaging workplace, 
a strong supplier base and 
vibrant communities. 
Advancing Inclusion and Diversity 
Begins With Our Employees 
Fifth Third is committed to refecting the 
diversity of our customers and communities by 
developing a workforce that is diverse, equitable 
and inclusive. We strive to create a workplace 
in which employees and customers feel valued, 
respected and understood. We celebrate and 
embrace each employee’s individuality and our collective diversity by encouraging employees 
to bring their authentic selves and best thinking 
into the workplace. 
From investing in our employees to supporting 
our customers to giving back to the communities 
we serve, we are committed to working toward 
being a more diverse and inclusive company and 
to creating a world where equal access and the 
opportunity to thrive is available to all. In response to the social unrest in 2020, the 
EDLC approved the creation of an Inclusion 
Toolkit  to support our Black employees, 
customers and communities. In 2021, we 
updated the toolkit to include all eight 
dimensions of diversity represented by our 
Business Resource Groups. 
At our Inclusive Art event in November, we 
celebrated our partnership with world-class artist Brian Washington and the Brian 
Washington Co. Along with Washington’s 
artwork, which focuses on the struggle for 
equality and racial reconciliation in American 
society, we also invited other diverse artists to 
display their artwork, including women, LGBT+, 
military and individuals with disabilities. Over 
160 employees and guests attended the event. 
Making Progress On Our Six Bold Goals 
Our bold goals, announced in 2020, remain 
the guiding force behind meaningful change 
in our inclusion and diversity eforts. In 2021, 
we focused on helping employees feel a greater sense of belonging and on providing them more 
forums to connect, share insights and feedback, 
and improve their awareness of unconscious bias and how to mitigate it. This strategic approach 
included continuous listening and learning 
opportunities, updated tools and resources, as 
well as improvements in our recruiting practices. 
Additionally, we developed a dashboard that 
enables us to continuously measure our progress. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third’s Six Bold Inclusion and Diversity Goals 
2025 Goals 2021 Progress Additional 
Information 
Complete unconscious 
bias awareness training 
for 100% of employees. 98% completion rate for Unconscious Bias Awareness 
2.0, launched in October 2021, and focused on 
microaggressions and mitigating bias. See pg. 27 , 
AREEI section. 
Ensure the Bank s 
workforce refects the 
diversity of the markets it 
serves. Focused on reviewing our workforce and market 
demographics  for alignment and opportunities. See pg. 54 , 
Social section. 
Grow leadership positions 
at each management level 
for women and persons of 
color. Reviewed representation of women and minorities at 
diferent levels.  Work continues to ensure parity and 
representation at every management level. 
On average, women are paid more than 99% of what 
men are paid, and minorities are paid more than 99% 
of what non-minorities are paid.  
Fifth Third has been recognized as a leader in diversity 
and inclusion, including: 
• A 100% rating on the Corporate Equality Index, 
administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. The Index is the nation’s premier benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT+ workplace equality. This is the Bank’s seventh consecutive 
100% score. 
• 100 score on the 2021 Disability Equality Index, up 10 points from 2020, partially due to formalizing our accommodations policy. We were also named for the second time as one of the Best Places to Work for People with Disabilities. 
• 2022 Forbes Best Employers for Diversity. See pg. 54 , 
Social section. 
See pg. 65, 
Social section. Create a work 
environment in which 
there is no pay disparity 
by race or gender. 
Advance the Bank as a 
leader in diversity and 
inclusion. 
Achieve and sustain a 10% 
supplier diversity spend Tier 1 supplier diversity spend was 8.6%, an increase See pg. 58 , 
to increase suppy chain 
inclusion. of 19% over 2020.  Social section. 
53  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 -
-2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Employee Demographics 
Talent diversity is of utmost importance at every level of our Company, from our Board of Directors 
to our executive team to our 18,655 full-time and 849 part-time employees as of Dec. 31, 2021. 
Publishing demographic diversity data is part of our commitment. It’s a practice we started in 2017 
with the publication of our 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. 
Aligning with our Footprint’s Diversity 
To become the one bank people most value and trust, we continued on our journey to ensure 
our workforce refects the communities we serve. To that end, we compared the makeup of our 
employee population with census data. 
Aligning with our Footprint’s Diversity 
State* Total 
Employee 
Count Census 
(Population) Census 
(EEO/Diversity 
Tabulation) Fifth Third 
Year End 
Diversity 
2021 
Ohio 8,967 19.0% 17.2% 23.3% 
Michigan 2,629 22.5% 19.8% 23.8% 
Illinois 2,424 35.6% 35.2% 42.4% 
Florida 1,293 43.2% 33.8% 38.2% 
Indiana 1,001 17.7% 16.6% 21.2% 
North Carolina 929 34.2% 31.2% 29.3% 
Kentucky 799 12.3% 14.9% 11.5% 
Tennessee 350 23.5% 20.0% 25.4% 
Georgia 287 43.3% 44.5% 51.9% 
Census (Population) includes all individuals that are age 16 and over and reside in the identifed state. 
Census (EEO/Diversity Tabulation) is based on American Community Survey (ACS) data from 2014-2018, and highlights the gender, racial, and ethnic diversity of the 
American labor force. The data is from metropolitan statistical areas associated with the Bank’s branch network. 
*States included are in the Bank’s branch network with 250 or more employees. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
2021 Workforce Diversity 
As part of our six bold goals that support inclusion and diversity within our workforce by 2025, 
we strive to grow leadership positions at the Exec/Senior Managers and First/Mid-level Managers categories for women and persons of color. 
2021 Workforce Diversity 
Exec/Senior Managers Men Women White Persons of 
Color 
73.1% 26.9% 
(+1.4% YoY) 88.6% 11.4% 
(+0.4% YoY) 
First/Mid level Managers 47.5% 52.5% 
(+0.5% YoY) 79.8% 20.2% 
(+0.8% YoY) 
Professionals 50.0% 50.0% 80.0% 20.0% 
All Others* 32.1% 67.9% 65.4% 34.6% 
Total 41.5% 58.5% 73.0% 27.0% 
Persons of Color 
Breakout Asian Black / 
African American Hispanic American 
Indian Hawaiian/ Pacifc 
Islander Two or 
More Races 
Exec/Senior
Managers 4.8% 3.3% 2.1% 0.3% 0.0% 1.0% 
First/Mid level Managers 3.7% 8.7% 5.9% 0.1% 0.1% 1.7% 
Professionals 7.1% 7.4% 3.7% 0.1% 0.2% 1.6% 
All Others* 3.6% 17.9% 10.2% 0.2% 0.1% 2.5% 
Total 4.8% 12.6% 7.2% 0.2% 0.1% 2.0% 
Tables may not foot due to rounding. 
*”All Others” is a combination of the following EEO-1 categories: sales workers and administrative support. Source: Dec. 31, 2021, employee data produced in a manner consistent with EEO-1 reporting with aggregation across EEO1 ethnicity categories. Refer to our Investor Relations website for Fifth Third Bancorp’s Equal Employment Opportunity 2021 Employer Information Report EEO-1 . 
54  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Inclusion Councils and 
Business Resource Groups 
More than 3,900 Fifth Third employees 
participate in one or more of our Business 
Resource Groups (BRGs)—a 20% increase 
since 2018. 
Our inclusion councils and BRGs provide 
employees opportunities for networking, learning 
and personal growth, as well as an outlet for 
community outreach and volunteerism. 
We operate 13 inclusion councils and 65 local 
BRGs. Senior executives also lead eight virtual 
Enterprise BRGs that enable all employees to 
participate regardless of their work location— 
greatly expanding access for employees with 
alternative work arrangements and those 
who work outside of our core Consumer 
Banking footprint. Each BRG focuses on three 
pillars: employee development, community 
involvement and business innovation. 
CONNECTING AND SERVING 
Despite the ongoing challenges of the 
pandemic, our BRGs were active in 2021. Based 
on the success of virtual town halls in 2020, we ofered more opportunities for BRG members to 
network, share their voice with executives and 
support each other in a virtual setting. Event 
highlights included a virtual town hall in May 
2021 that brought together all Enterprise BRGs. 
The session was hosted by Fifth Third Bancorp 
President Tim Spence. Other events of note included an inclusion series 
hosted by Cincinnati BRGs featuring Haben 
Girma, the frst deaf-blind graduate of Harvard 
Law School; an Asian American Pacifc Islander Heritage Month virtual event hosted by the 
Asian & Pacifc Islander BRG, and a joint session 
of Cincinnati’s Military and African American 
BRGs featuring Maj. Gen. John C. Harris who 
talked about race, equality and equity through the lens of current events and military service. 
Regional BRG highlights included: 
• North Carolina:  To honor Juneteenth, the 
African American BRG collaborated with Charlotte’s Mint Museum to ofer free access on specifc dates in June. The BRG also commemorated the day with free events in Raleigh and Charlotte for regional employees and their immediate families. 
• Tennessee:  The Tennessee LGBT+ BRG in 
August sponsored the in-person Boro Pride event in Murfreesboro. 
• Kentucky:  The Kentucky Women’s BRG 
sponsored events during Women’s History Month and an exhibit at the Frazier Museum. Regional President Kim Haulbauer gave opening remarks along with fve other pioneering women, including the frst woman to row solo across the Atlantic Ocean, the frst Black woman to be named chief judge on the Kentucky Court of Justice’s Court of Appeals, and Louisville’s frst openly lesbian council member. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third’s BRGs 
More than 3,900 Fifth Third 
employees participate in 
one or more of our business 
resource groups—a 20% 
increase since 2018. Fifth Third’s BRGs 
focus on employee 
development, 
community 
involvement and 
business innovation . 
These pillars are 
exemplifed in the Bank’s BRG leadership. Mitch 
Morgan (left) is senior manager of inclusion 
and diversity, and he works collaboratively with 
Steven Acosta, Fifth Third’s manager of inclusion 
and diversity, who leads our regional BRG eforts 
across the footprint. Said Steven, “I joined Fifth 
Third in 2019 and have been privileged to work 
with Mitch to lead our BRGs and BRG strategy. 
Mitch embodies the Bank’s core value of inclusion 
and diversity and has shown me that having a 
heart for people and ultimate faith in their abilities 
can translate into leading innovative programs to 
drive outcomes and to giving back in meaningful 
ways to our communities, which is the goal of 
every BRG at Fifth Third.” 
For Claire Rubin Ellerhorst , 
Private Bank investment strategist, 
volunteering has become an extension 
of her role as co-chair of the Young 
Professionals Business Resource Group 
in Chicago. “Volunteering has been 
a great way for me to network and 
connect with my peers . Volunteering my time also 
supports the broader community and helps me 
feel more personally connected to it,” Claire said. 
55  
 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Individuals With Disabilities 
We are proud of our 16-year 
leadership of Project SEARCH, 
a school-to-work transition 
program for high school 
students with disabilities.  The 
goal of Project SEARCH is to 
provide students with competitive employment at the end of 
the one-year program. We were one of the founders of this 
public-private partnership, which was developed by Cincinnati 
Children’s Hospital Medical Center and now operates in more 
than 625 sites worldwide. 
Fifth Third has operated Project SEARCH programs for 16 years 
in Cincinnati and 14 years in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Through 
the end of 2021, we have trained more than 382 individuals; of 
those, 33 are now Bank employees. 
Fifth Third recently facilitated a new efort through its partnership 
with EverFi and ofered our Finance Academy curriculum to over 
500 Project SEARCH programs across the world. 
Project SEARCH’s annual golf outing exceeded expectations 
and garnered record attendance. The event raised $50,000 
through sponsor donations and support from Fifth Third. To 
date, this event has contributed over $1.6 million to help 
support the program. 
Based on needs identifed by our Individuals with Disabilities BRG, Fifth Third ofered a special fnancial education course 
for teammates who live with or have family members with a 
disability. The 2021 session focused on helping these families 
manage everyday expenses, use Fifth Third benefts, make the most of government resources and establish a plan for long -
term needs. Fifth Third was the frst bank to design a checking account for 
the Achieving a Better Life Experience program, known as ABLE. 
ABLE accounts are state-sponsored saving and investment 
accounts that allow individuals with disabilities and their families 
to save and invest private assets for disability-related expenses 
without losing access to federal-means tested benefts, such 
as Supplemental Social Security Income, Medicaid, HUD, SNAP and other benefts.* Our ABLE accounts are a result of our work 
with the National ABLE Alliance, a consortium dedicated to 
providing those living with disabilities and their families with low-
cost investment products. We saw an 87% increase in program 
participation from 2020 to 2021 , and we expanded the checking 
product to our Michigan region. 
Fifth Third was the frst bank to design 
a checking account for the Achieving 
a Better Life Experience program, 
known as ABLE. ABLE accounts allow 
individuals with disabilities and their 
families to save and invest private 
assets for disability-related expenses. 
To continue our journey to be the leading employer for people 
with disabilities, Fifth Third in 2021 embarked on developing 
a neurodiversity hiring program that will launch in 2022. We 
entered into an agreement with Integrate Autism Employment 
Advisors for support of this program, which will enable us to 
hire neurodivergent candidates that will bring unique skills and 
perspectives to the Bank. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Five Project SEARCH employees who celebrated 15  
years of employment with us. 
Pictured, from left to right in the back, are: Collin Biddle ,  
Investor Specialist I, Evan Denenberg , File Document Specialist I, 
Nathan Michelson , Bankcard Adjustor I,  Esther Ahn , General  
Ofce Clerk II. Sarah Kayes , Receptionist, is in front. 
*Certain limitations may apply based on applicable state or federal law. 56   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Supporting Military Employees 
We are proud of our long history of supporting military veterans. Active military and veteran 
employees are provided with special ribbons to wear on Veterans Day and any other day of the 
year. In Cincinnati, the Fifth Third Museum also developed a special three-week exhibit to honor past 
veteran employees. 
Our enhanced paid military leave guidelines provide for 20 days of paid military leave per 
year and provide paid leave for any kind of military service, not just active duty, a distinction many 
companies do not make. The guidelines were driven by feedback from the Bank’s Military BRG. 
Joshua Quantz , assistant vice president and HR business partner, 
was recognized in 2021 by the Cincinnati Bengals as a Hometown 
Hero. With over 20 years of service, Josh has commanded soldiers 
at the company and battalion level. He served as director of Army 
operations and director of strategy and plans. Josh is a combat 
veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom and was deployed in support of 
the Kosovo campaign. He has been honored with a Bronze Star Medal, 
four meritorious service medals, fve army commendation medals, and 
was inducted into the Order of Saint George and the Order of Saint 
Barbara military honor societies.  
Josh started at Fifth Third in 2019 as a regional security manager. Through the Military 
BRG, he made connections that enabled him to move into his current role in Human Capital. 
Josh has been involved with the Military BRG since joining the Bank and, in mid-2020, he 
became the BRG’s co-chair.  
“Bringing my leadership skills and drive to support others 
in their career development is important to me as is 
helping other veterans on their career path after serving 
our country.” 
Contents 
Multicultural Recruitment Strategy 
Recruiting and engaging an inclusive and diverse 
workforce is a top priority. Our multicultural 
recruitment strategy strengthens the Bank by 
developing an employee base that refects the 
communities we serve while also enhancing the 
lives of tomorrow’s leaders. As such, we have 
deepened our relationships with traditional 
colleges as well as more than 20 historically 
Black colleges and universities, or HBCUs, to 
strengthen the pipeline of diverse talent. 
We have invested over $600,000 with HBCUs 
since 2017 to help prepare high-achieving 
students—many of them frst generation college students—to excel in the workforce. 
In 2021, we held the frst Fifth Third Bank 
virtual HBCU Leadership Conference with the 
theme of “Realizing the Leader Within.” Over 
70 students registered for this inaugural event 
that featured two days of virtual networking, 
leadership development and insights into the 
career journeys of Fifth Third leaders such as 
Kevin Lavender, head of Commercial Banking, 
Kala Gibson, chief corporate responsibility 
ofcer, and Stephanie Smith, chief inclusion and 
diversity ofcer. 
Our investment includes providing over 500 
service hours of skills coaching and delivering 
our Fifth Third fnancial empowerment 
programs to help reduce student debt. 
In recent years, students have been recruited 
from nine HBCUs: Central State University, 
Clark Atlanta University, Florida A&M University, 
Johnson C. Smith University, Wilberforce Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Danielle Jones, vice president and senior  
public relations manager, with the president  
and frst lady of Florida A&M University, Dr.  
Larry Robinson and his wife, Sharon. 
University, Tennessee State University, North 
Ca
rolina A&T University, North Carolina Central 
University and Morehouse College. These 
schools were noted for their strong engineering, 
business and science, technology and math 
programs, and for developing talent that could 
excel at Fifth Third. 
Our HBCU strategy also emphasizes internships, 
co-operative education and long-term 
employment through leadership programs 
and early talent, entry-level opportunities. 
Additionally, the Fifth Third Foundation provided 
fve $5,300 scholarships over fve years to 
Johnson C. Smith University, Clark Atlanta 
University, Tennessee State University and 
North Carolina Central University. For additional 
information about these programs see page 69 . 
57  
 
     
$7.5 
2025 GOAL $10.5 $18.4 $65.0 $77.1 $63.3 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Supplier Diversity 
We know a diverse supply chain is better business. It’s about 
ofering excellent fnancial solutions and driving innovation for the beneft of our customers, shareholders, employees and communities. We consider our supplier diversity program a strategic imperative. It was formally established in 2015 to encourage certifed minority-, women-, veteran-, persons with disabilities-, and LGBT+-owned small businesses to compete for contracting opportunities and to drive innovation. 
Our One Bank approach promotes collaboration across our 
internal departments to ensure diverse suppliers are used throughout our organization. In addition to ensuring access to business opportunities, we support diverse suppliers through 
Fifth Third’s Supplier Diversity 
Spend 
Since the inception of the Supplier Diversity 
program, Fifth Third has grown its spending with 
diverse suppliers from $7.5 million in 2014 to 
$88.4 million in 2021.
 % $ (in millions) 
*Diverse spend was impacted in 2019 by a change of ownership of one of the Bank’s certified 
women business enterprises as well as the impact of the acquisition of MB Financial, Inc. myriad methods, from certifcation support to scholarships 
providing education and training on how to conduct business with us, that exemplify our commitment to diverse business owners and to having a more robust and competitive supply chain. 
TIER 1 
Tier 1 spending includes suppliers who provide products and 
services directly to Fifth Third and receive payment directly from Fifth Third. In 2021, the Bank’s Tier 1 spending increased 17% from $75.4M in 2020 to $88.4M. 
10% 
9% 8.8 % 
8% 9.6 % 
7.4 % 
7% 
6% 
5% 
4% 
3% 2.7 % 
2% 1.3 % 
1% 0.9 % 
0% 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* 2020 2021 10.0 % 
8.6 % 
$88.4 7.2 % 
$75.4 Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
TIER 2 
Tier 2 spending includes suppliers who provide products and 
services to Fifth Third and receive payment from a Tier 1 supplier. As an industry best practice, infuencing diverse spending through all levels of our supply chain positions us to deliver measurable economic benefts to both Fifth Third and diverse communities. Actively working with Fifth Third’s Tier 1 suppliers to increase engagement and spending with diverse suppliers boosts supplier diversity success. The strategic focus on increasing diverse Tier 2 spending had a signifcant impact as the Bank’s Tier 2 diverse spending in 2021 increased 254% from $7.3M in 2020 to $25.8 million. 
This resulted in $109 million combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 
spending with diverse suppliers in 2021. DIVERSE SPEND AS A PERCENTAGE OF ADDRESSABLE SPEND 
CONTINUED 58  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Supplier Diversity Accolades 
Named WBENC Top Corporation. 
Georgia Minority Supplier Development Council’s Crystal Award 
for commitment to minority business development through programs, 
corporate spending and aggressive procurement opportunities. 
Recognized as NMSDC 2021 Corporation of the Year. 
Recognized as a U.S. Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce 
Synergy Awards winner. 
Recognized as Ohio MSDC Class 2 Corporation of the Year for 
commitment to supplier diversity. 
Fifth Third’s Enterprise Workplace Services team listed as Supplier 
Diversity Buyer of the Year in Minority Business News and Women’s 
Enterprise USA magazines (both national magazines). 
Supplier diversity spending contributed to Dayton’s being added to the 
Top 10 Best Metros for Minority-Owned Businesses in the U.S. 
Supplier diversity spending contributed to Mid-State Minority 
Development Business Council $650M  spending with Black-owned 
suppliers. Contents 
Through the years, Fifth Third has 
developed numerous partnerships with organizations that focus on enhancing supplier diversity eforts.  In addition to 
business opportunities, part of our journey includes partnerships with organizations that are established to promote the development of a strong supplier base in the communities we serve. Those include the National Minority Supplier Development Council, Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and Financial Services Roundtable for Supplier Diversity. Several Fifth Third leaders serve on boards or as members of committees with these organizations. 
Supporting and Developing 
Supplier Diversity Leaders 
Fifth Third’s Supplier Diversity and 
facilities teams partnered in the inaugural Diversity Inclusion Support and Connection Opportunities for Vendor Empowerment Roundtable, or DISCOVER event. The event improved awareness of business opportunities for certifed minority businesses in the construction, design, repair and maintenance felds. Sessions 
provided insight and tips about how to bid for work on upcoming Fifth Third projects and introduced diverse suppliers to key decision-makers. 
During the pandemic, Fifth Third turned 
to innovative ways to connect with diverse suppliers, including a virtual program in Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third partners 
with organizations that 
promote the development 
of a strong supplier base 
in the communities we 
serve, including the 
National Minority Supplier 
Development Council, 
Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council 
and Financial Services 
Roundtable for Supplier Diversity. 
partnership with the Business Development 
Program for Ohio and Kentucky members of the Women’s Business Enterprise Council Ohio River Valley. The eight-month program developed female entrepreneurs, challenged business owners to explore new leadership concepts and focused on long-term economic growth opportunities that also beneft communities. The highly selective program was guided by certifed program directors, Kaufman FastTrac Growth Venture Program facilitators and Fifth Third subject matter experts. 
CONTINUED 59  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 --
—
—
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
FEATURE 
Empowering Black Women 
Business Owners 
When the Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC) identifed a key issue facing 
Black women business owners, Fifth Third’s chief 
inclusion and diversity ofcer, Stephanie Smith, 
stepped in to help. These business owners were 
not becoming WBENC certifed because of the 
cost of certifcation, a problem exacerbated by 
the pandemic. 
Stephanie A. Smith, SVP, Chief Inclusion & Diversity Ofcer Smith advocated for a program to help women 
pay to certify their businesses.  She worked 
with WBENC and Women’s Business Enterprise 
Corporation, a regional partner organization, to 
create the program and to identify non certifed 
Black WBEs to apply. The Fifth Third program 
covers the certifcation processing fee for the frst 
year. 
WBENC certifcation provides access to network 
and procurement opportunities with corporations and government agencies, facilitates important 
business growth and connects the more than 
17,000 WBEs across the country. 
The scholarship program was rolled out in seven 
of the Bank’s 12 regions the Carolinas, Georgia, 
Kentucky, Ohio, West Virginia and Tennessee 
and 28 applicants received scholarships. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
New Certifcate Program to Empower Minority 
Entrepreneurs 
In collaboration with the 
National Minority Supplier Development Council, Fifth Third launched the NMSDC Centers of Excellence Certifcate Program (COECP) in 2021 to help strengthen the corporate supplier 
selection processes  and help minority businesses compete in 
a global environment. Establishing the program at Fifth Third is also part of the Bank’s AREEI initiative and its commitment to fnancial inclusion. 
The program is designed to empower minority entrepreneurs 
and to assist them with securing contracts with Fifth Third and other large companies. The nine-month program is made possible through the Fifth Third Foundation and the Bank’s relationships with the Ohio, Georgia, Michigan, Mid-States and Chicago MSDC regional councils. 
In 2021, 62 NMSDC-certifed Class II businesses with annual sales 
between $1 million and $10 million and that had a minimum of fve employees graduated from the program. Outcomes were positive, including 95% of the graduates increasing their revenue as well as landing new clients and contracts. 
95% of the NMSDC Centers of 
Excellence Certifcate Program 
graduates increased their revenue and 
landed new clients and contracts. 
60  
 
  
  2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Employees 
Employees are the heart of 
Fifth Third. Our employees 
enable us to advance sustainability among our customers and communities; 
they make us the one bank 
people most value and trust. 
Fifth Third’s success is a direct result of their 
individual and collective contributions, strong 
relationships, innovative ideas, collaboration, 
commitment and diversity.   
Investing Wisely In Employees 
Our employees deserve a world-class 
work environment, competitive pay and 
comprehensive benefts in exchange for 
their talents, skills and commitment. This 
relationship between what we ofer employees 
and what they contribute is how we build and 
earn trust and grow as one bank. Keeping 
our employees’ development and overall experience at the center of our decisions and 
actions enables us to deliver sustainable, long -
term value to all we serve. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Human Capital’s Four Strategic Priorities in 2021 
Our Fifth Third Compass guides our 
everyday actions, processes and business controls  as do our Human Capital strategies 
and decisions. The division made notable 
progress on the four strategic priorities it 
announced in 2020. Each priority enables 
us to deliver exceptional experiences for 
employees and customers, and to help make 
Fifth Third an employer of choice. Inclusion and Diversity 
Fifth Third accelerated the development 
of an inclusive workplace and diverse 
workforce strategy,  most notably in 
employee education and training, listening 
sessions and recruiting practices. See page 
53 for details. Develop Great Leaders 
Accelerating our leaders’ capabilities to 
drive success and empowerment in an 
increasingly diverse and technologically 
changing environment is imperative. 
In 2021, we continued to focus on 
leadership capabilities. See page 64 for 
more information. 
Evolving Employee Experience 
Our continuous listening strategy (see 
pages 27  and 62 ) played a pivotal role 
in our eforts to research, analyze and 
advance the employee experience,  as 
did enhancing our benefts oferings. That 
strategy informs the evolution of the way 
we work, and it ensures our employee 
value proposition clearly articulates 
who we are, what we believe and what 
employees receive. 
In 2021, we conducted additional listening 
sessions and surveys with diverse groups of 
employees at all levels. Future of Work 
We continued to invest in our workforce and 
adapt our workplace model for the future. 
We aligned our talent acquisition strategy 
with the Bank ’s strategic priorities, growth 
plans and our goal to diversify our talent 
pipeline.  In 2021, Human Capital supported 
the Bank ’s expansion in the Southeast as 
well as in Texas and California. We identifed 
new ways to attract talent and accelerated 
building and expanding our workers’ skills 
(see page 69 ). 
Additionally, we worked to balance our 
employees’ desire for greater control over 
how, where and when work is done with our 
One Bank model and belief that our culture 
thrives when we work together in -person 
(see page 66 ). 
61  
 
 
 
 
  2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Engage 
Employee Voices Matter 
Fifth Third’s continuous listening strategy forms the foundation 
of Fifth Third’s culture. Our holistic approach to collecting, measuring and responding to employee feedback ensures that we engage with employees at critical points during their careers and during times of change in our business or work environment. 
Fifth Third’s Board of Directors and executive management 
assess employee engagement on a regular basis through our annual engagement survey. In 2021, our overall engagement score was 65%. In an environment of uncertainty and complexity, our engagement score for all employees declined from 69% in 2019 but remained comparable to other U.S. fnancial services companies. The Bank did not conduct a survey in 2020 due to the pandemic, but instead opted to conduct a series of pulse surveys to gauge employee viewpoints and feedback. 
Of special note in 2021 is that the positive perceptions of 
managers among employees increased to 84% , reinforcing the 
value of their role in guiding their teams through uncertain times. All four questions related to managers yielded favorable scores. 
Our exit survey results show that advocacy, which indicates the 
likelihood that an employee would continue to be a supporter of the Company or return to Fifth Third in the future, was 66%, down 5% from 2020, yet still 9% higher than the national average. 
As we continue to advance our commitment to ethics and 
integrity, an optional pulse survey was conducted with all employees in December 2021. The 10-question survey allowed us to understand better employees’ perceptions and experiences around doing the right thing in relation to risk management. 2021 Employee Viewpoints Survey 
Questions Related to Managers Yield Favorable Results 
•  My manager holds people appropriately 
accountable  (81% favorable). 
•  My manager sets clear expectations and goals with me (85% favorable). 
•  My manager provides valuable feedback through the year that allows me to improve my performance  (83% favorable). 
•  My manager recognizes my eforts and results in a way that is meaningful to me  
(77% favorable). 
In 2021, positive perceptions of 
managers among employees 
increased to 84%, reinforcing the 
value of their role in guiding their 
teams through uncertain times. 
Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Annually, Fifth Third participates in the Top 
Workplace program managed by Energage. 
Winners are selected based on an all-employee 
survey conducted by Energage. 
Fifth Third received an Energage Top Workplace 
Award in 11 markets , up from 10 markets in 2020. 
Cincinnati Louisville 
Cleveland Charlotte 
Toledo S. Florida 
(East Coast) 
Columbus Tampa 
Detroit Orlando 
Indianapolis 
62  
  
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Develop 
Empowering Employee Development 
Fifth Third’s learning and development 
strategy delivers personalized and accessible experiences that fuel career growth and helps retain great talent.  In 2021, our fexible 
and virtual learning opportunities continued to evolve based on employee preferences and business needs. 
Fueling What’s Next 
Fifth Third’s learning platform, Degreed, provides a single, fuid skill-development experience that empowers employees to expand their knowledge and skills on demand. The platform, launched in 2020, is integrated with Fifth Third’s existing learning providers, including LinkedIn Learning and Harvard Business Publishing. Employees now have access to all components of their learning programs through Degreed. 
In 2021, the learning and development team 
expanded Degreed’s technology and tools to serve more groups better and support the Bank’s strategic priorities. This included developing pathways to help employees improve their knowledge and skills on agile methodologies, sales and service, unconscious bias, communication, data analytics, leadership development and more. The team also implemented inclusive design standards to design a better and more inclusive learning experience for those with disabilities. 
Additionally, we expanded our partnership 
with Harvard Business Publishing to provide employees at all levels with access to Harvard Business Publishing’s Spark content library through Degreed. The library contains more than 20,000 items covering a wide variety of topics. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Employee engagement  
with Degreed increased  
signifcantly in 2021. 
•  Number of employees using Degreed: 
Jan. 2021 – 20%; Dec. 2021 – 94% . 
•  26,150 learners  participated in at 
least one virtually facilitated learning 
experience. 
•  Learners consumed over 9,000  
hours  of virtually facilitated sessions. 
•  553,538 non-compliance learning items  
completed 
•  on skills, including innovation, agility, leadership, problem solving and  
relationship management. Compliance Training 
Each year, Fifth Third requires all employees and contingent or contract workers to complete courses related to risk and compliance on topics that support strong risk management behaviors and accountability. Topics include fnancial crimes, elder fnancial abuse, complaint management, privacy, information lifecycle governance, code of business conduct and ethics, fraud, fair lending and more. 
Compliance ofcers and executives of each 
line of business approve all training specifc to an employee’s role. A set of courses launches each quarter, and employees are allotted time to complete the comprehensive courses during working hours. 99.9% of employees completed all required compliance training modules. 
CONTINUED 63  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Leadership Capabilities 
 Developing Great Leaders 
Fifth Third’s Leader Capabilities, launched 
in 2020, are at the heart of Human Capital’s strategic priority to develop great leaders. The four Leader Capabilities—Create Connections, Be a Great Coach, Lead with Agility, and Act Like An Owner—align with the Bank’s vision, core values and strategic actions. 
In 2021, our learning journeys associated with 
each Leader Capability became more self-guided and accessible through Degreed, empowering leaders to engage with online training and resources, immersive simulations and learning cafes. The journeys span 20-24 months, and managers engaged with content that helped them navigate the pandemic’s impact on customers and employees. The focus on coaching and leadership is evident in the favorable manager scores received from our Employee Viewpoint Survey. 
Developing Tomorrow’s Talent Today 
For over 30 years, Fifth Third has advocated early career support for individuals seeking careers in fnancial services. Early career opportunities for students and recent graduates include both direct-hire roles and nine leadership development programs.  The 
programs are Audit, Commercial and Credit, Finance and Accounting, IT, Operations, Risk Management, Strategic Projects and Analytics, Wealth & Asset Management, and Commercial Middle Market.  Contents 
Early career programs expose participants to our business through rotational experiences, including structured education to develop leader capabilities; exposure to seasoned performers, senior leaders and other early career learners; and resources to support strong performance and development. 
Over a two-year period, leadership program 
participants have access to formal learning programs, such as consultative skills, building relationships using DiSC® assessments, emotional intelligence and presentation skills. They also participate in the Connect@53 challenge, which helps them establish their frst 53 connections at the Bank. We also support their growth and development through our business resource groups and structured community service and volunteer opportunities. 
Education Assistance Program 
Fifth Third encourages employees to enroll in outside education programs to broaden their knowledge and improve job performance. We provide assistance for external education, including tuition reimbursement to full- and part-time employees of up to $5,250 and $2,500, respectively, per calendar year. In 2021, we paid over $1.4 million in tuition reimbursement.  Additionally, relationships 
with Western Governors University and the University of Phoenix mean employees can take advantage of discounted tuition rates as they work toward their degrees. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third Goes Lean 
In 2020, Fifth Third announced its Lean 
Process Automation (LPA) strategy to 
reduce processes and become more 
efcient with time, money and talent. The 
strategy involves all lines of businesses 
and combines lean Six Sigma methodology, 
robotic process automation and design 
thinking to drive customer-focused 
innovation.  Squads partnered closely with 
change management practitioners to drive 
rapid implementation and adoption of 
efcient and efective solutions. 
To ensure all IT employees had baseline 
knowledge of lean process automation 
and to help employees upskill in this area, a team of IT employees certifed in Lean 
Six Sigma partnered with our Learning and 
Development team to create an LPA pathway 
in Degreed. To create a comprehensive LPA 
overview, the black belts curated content 
from LinkedIn Learning, Fifth Third’s library 
of internal tools and other resources. 
The pathway launched in 2021, and all 
IT employees, regardless of their LPA 
experience, were required to complete 
the training; 100% of IT employees did so. 
Improved processes and savings in cost 
and time were the result. One outcome was 
the optimization of the Bank’s servers that 
handle email, data processing and electronic 
transactions, saving over $2 million. In 
2022, Fifth Third will launch lean process 
automation training to all employees. 
64  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Retain 
Compensation 
As part of our ongoing commitment to inclusion 
and diversity, Fifth Third’s total compensation programs are grounded in a philosophy that ensures all employees are paid fairly and equitably, and in compliance with the law. 
Fifth Third’s Compensation  
Policy 
•  Attract and retain top talent and high 
performers  that will drive our business 
strategy. 
•  Efectively manage risk within incentive programs  designed to pay for performance. 
•  Consider applicable regulatory expectations  
as well as our corporate values and behavioral expectations  when making 
compensation awards. 
•  Align with the creation of long-term shareholder value. We continuously analyze our pay, accounting f
or factors like employee role, tenure, time in 
position and geography. Our 2021 analysis shows that, on average, women are paid more than 99% of what men are paid, and minorities are paid more than 99% of what non-minorities are paid. 
We also continuously analyze our compensation 
programs and practices to help ensure that all employees have equal opportunity to maximize their potential. In the unlikely event we encounter a pay disparity that is not explained by job-related factors, an adjustment is made. 
We use competitive benchmarking data 
provided annually by top industry consultants to ensure the ongoing competitiveness of our total compensation program, including base salary ranges and short- and long-term incentives. 
Since 2019, Fifth Third has honored a footprint-
wide ban on using salary history in hiring, which means that we will not ask for a candidate’s current salary to use as a factor in determining an employment ofer. This approach reduces historical gender and racial pay inequities. Contents 
Fifth Third ofers a 401(k) retirement plan that pays a match up to 7% of an employee’s compensation. Employee participation in the plan increased from 83% to 84% in 2021, and all employees may contribute up to the maximum allowable by law. A variety of investment options is available to employees through the plan’s core funds and a self-directed brokerage feature. 
Fifth Third is committed to pay transparency. 
We publicize salary ranges for job postings in states where required, and additionally for positions with a virtual location. 
Fifth Third continued to evaluate its strategies 
for retaining talent in 2021, especially in light of the economic trend that saw great numbers of U.S. workers voluntarily resign from their jobs. As part of this retention strategy, Fifth Third awarded more than 7,500 eligible front-line employees a special bonus payment as thanks for their onsite work and continued commitment to keep the customer at the center.  
To provide stability and support to its 
employees’ needs outside of work, the Bancorp updated its time away policies, provided additional vacation time in 2021 and ofered back-up family care. Several retention actions have been executed in alignment with the Bank’s compensation philosophy, including special bonus programs implemented for certain roles. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
In January 2018, the Bank raised its minimum hourly rate from $12 to $15. That was followed in October 2019 by an increase from $15 to $18 per hour. In April 2022, the Bank announced a new $20 minimum hourly wage. 95% of those impacted by this change support our retail banking center and operations support functions, including customer contact centers. In our Ohio, Michigan and Illinois regions, our minimum wage is up to 200% higher than the state minimum wage*. 
Performance Management 
Recognizing the value and impact of employee performance is vital to maintaining a strong culture and helps optimize both individual and collective success. Our performance management process 
is grounded in our Core Values and, for leaders, in our Leader Capabilities. 
Q1 
GOAL SETTING 
ONGOING, Q4 Q2REAL-TIME YEAR-END PERFORMANCE 
REVIEW COACHING AND CHECK-INS 
FEEDBACK 
Q3 
DEVELOPMENT Fifth Third announced a new $20 minimum hourly 
wage in April 2022. 
CONTINUED 65 *State minimum wages: OH - $9.30, MI - $9.87, IL - $12.00  
   
  
 
 
    
 2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Managers engage in regular performance and development 
conversations to ensure employees understand expectations, share the value and impact of their contributions, and focus on their potential. While managers drive many elements of the process, employees are encouraged to take an active role in engaging in performance and development conversations and in working with their managers to create solutions that positively impact their goals and overall experience.  
At year-end, individual performance is evaluated not just by 
what an employee accomplished during the year but also how the work was done. Our Core Values and Leader Capabilities ensure accountability for achieving the right results in the right way. Managers and employees also have the opportunity to focus on the future by identifying performance and development priorities for the upcoming year. 
Talent Management 
Our talent management process comprises an annual talent review and periodic updates.  We analyze strategic business 
objectives and needs and the talent necessary to achieve our goals. We assess employee potential, determine bench strength, identify any capability gaps and create targeted development actions. 
The talent review process is facilitated by the Human Capital 
team with the following intentions: 
• Identify employees with greater potential so that we can 
provide targeted development  that solves for talent gaps. 
• Focus on increasing representation of diverse talent at all levels. 
• Hold managers accountable for providing ongoing feedback, coaching and development. 
• Provide targeted feedback to accelerate our employees’ development  and deepen their engagement. TALENT NEEDS 
BUSINESS 
STRATEGY TALENT 
MANAGEMENT 
PROCESS TALENT 
ASSESSMENT 
TALENT GAPS 
& ACTIONS FOLLOW 
THROUGH 
• Strive to equip employees with transferrable skills for business needs  and to provide developmental experiences. 
• Ensure succession planning is in place in order to adjust and adapt quickly as needed. 
Succession planning ensures a pipeline of capable leaders at senior levels who can meet short- and long-term business needs  and minimize the risk from vacancies in critical roles. An 
additional beneft for keeping this talent pipeline flled includes intentional focus on accelerating readiness of successors. Executive talent and succession planning for the direct reports of the CEO is managed by the CEO and chief human resource ofcer and reviewed at least annually with the Board of Directors. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Work Practice Pathways 
Fifth Third also launched Work Practice Pathways for employees. Our culture thrives when working together, in person, while also recognizing the importance of having enhanced fexible work options. We were among the frst U.S. banks to welcome employees who had been working remotely back to the ofce while doing so safely and within federal, state and local COVID-19 guidelines. We also recognize the importance of fexibility. 
Our approach is principles-based, allowing leaders to 
determine the level of fexibility that is right for their business and in alignment with guiding principles. The applicability of remote work arrangements varies widely by the type of work employees do for the Bank and the responsibilities of their business units. Additionally, the Bank has refreshed its alternative work arrangement policy and has identifed roles for longer-term remote eligibility. Human Capital employees worked closely with each department to determine the level of fexibility that best supports their teams. 
Our workplace practice 
approach is principles-
based, allowing leaders 
to determine the level of fexibility 
that is right for their business and in 
alignment with guiding principles. 
CONTINUED 66  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
  2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Caring For Employee Health, 
Safety And Well-Being 
The physical, fnancial and personal health 
and well-being of our employees is among our highest priorities. Engaged and supported employees enable us to do and be our best and to provide the best service to our customers and communities. 
Fifth Third strives to provide benefts that 
are comprehensive, competitive and, most important, supportive of the overall well -
being of employees. 
As the pandemic continued in 2021, Fifth 
Third implemented additional benefts to support employees  and promote a healthy 
and safe working environment. Fifth Third issued: 
• Up to $2,250 in special payments to 
more than 7,500 front-line employees. 
• An extra vacation week in 2021 for most employees. 
• Continued to ofer non-worked paid time of and additional sick time. 
• New Wellness points available via through our Go365 program for completion of COVID-19 vaccinations. 
• Discounted parking. 
• Lunch provided for operation centers. 
• Expanded Back-up Care from 15 to 30 days. Supporting Employees 
MYWELLNESS 
Each year, employees who focus on their 
wellness are rewarded through our myWellness program. By taking specifc actions for health 
and fnancial wellness, employees can earn up to $1,800 in their paychecks. Employees are supported in their wellness journey by a network of 200 Fifth Third employees who volunteer as wellness champions. 
PHYSICAL HEALTH 
• Competitive and comprehensive traditional 
benefts  including medical, dental and vision 
plans. 
• Medical plans cover preventive screenings at 100% preventive screening rates  for breast 
cancer and prostate-specifc antigen exceed industry benchmarks. 
• Teladoc ofers answers from world-renowned experts 24/7 year-round by web, phone or app  at no cost to employees. All 
employees and their dependents are eligible, regardless of whether they participate in a Fifth Third medical plan. Contents 
FINANCIAL WELLNESS 
The Financial Wellness program ofers 
employees and their spouses or partners personal fnancial coaching, educational tools and resources. 
• Educational tools and refnancing 
options for student debt are available to all employees through a partnership with Empower Retirement, our 401(k) provider. 
• Fifth Third ofers a 401(k) retirement plan that pays a match up to 7% of an employee’s compensation  up to the IRS limit. See page 
65 for details. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
MENTAL HEALTH 
Now more than ever, we encourage employees 
to focus on their overall well-being, including mental and emotional health,  as well as the 
well-being of their families. To support mental health, Fifth Third ofers: 
• LifeWorks , a free, confdential program that 
supports employees and their families. Six in-
person counseling sessions per issue or topic are ofered at no charge to employees and a user-friendly app ofers a variety of wellness-related tools. 
• Employee Assistance Program help line and LifeWorks Crisis Support Line. 
• Teladoc Mental Health Navigator , through 
which carefully selected expert psychiatrists can review a diagnosis and treatment plan from a primary care physicians or other practitioners. 
• Anthem Behavioral Health Resource Center helps fnd the right treatment program(s) and provides access to myStrength, a health club for the mind. 
• LiveHealth Online through Anthem provides two programs to help employees fnd the mental health resources for themselves and family members from the comfort of home. 
CONTINUED 67  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
FAMILY-FRIENDLY BENEFITS TO BALANCE 
WORK AND LIFE 
• Paid parental bonding leave provides four 
continuous weeks of time of  to all full- and 
eligible part-time U.S. employees paid at 100% of pay to give parents time to bond with their newest family members. The beneft can be used by birth, adoptive and foster parents 
• Additional six-week to eight-week maternity leave beneft. 
• Adoption assistance. 
• Infertility coverage. 
• Paid military leave policy provides up to 20 days of leave per year for any military duty, including drills and training. 
• Bright Horizons Back-up Care provides all employees child and adult in-home or center-based back-up care. All employees are eligible for 15 days of back-up care per calendar year with nominal copayments. The copay was waived in March and April of 2021. 
• Virtual Concierge and Maternity Concierge, powered by Best Upon Request, helps bring balance to lives of employees and employees who are working parents by managing a variety of personal tasks. The Maternity Concierge can be used by parents-to-be, and parents and guardians with children up to 1 year of age. 24,000  
employee hours  
saved by our 
concierge service 
801  
employees registered 
for back-up child, 
adult or elder care 
(SAVING 670 EMPLOYEE WORKDAYS) Contents 
Workplace Safety and Security 
Fifth Third is committed to ensuring the safety of our customers, employees and the physical security of our banking centers and workplace. 
Fifth Third’s integrated security 
program includes: 
•  Process for physical security 
assessments. 
•  Methodology for determining  
physical security needs. 
•  Deployment of physical security countermeasures. 
•  Internal and external investigations  
in response to threats and crimes. 
•  Reviews and evaluations of physical security. 
•  Processes and procedures that help employees respond in the event of an emergency , such as fre, shelter-in-
place situations or an environmental issue. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
The Company’s chief security ofcer is responsible for the physical security of all Bank employees, customers and facilities. Our Physical Security team manages on-site security guards and also manages the Bank’s security operations center, which maintains a 24/7 call center and monitors over 20,000 cameras and alarms across Bank facilities; emergency notifcation channels to employees; and serves as a centralized response group for all security issues. 
Physical Security also regularly reviews the 
external and internal infuences that afect its physical security program. These include the overall security environment, applicable laws and regulations, and emerging technology. 
Fifth Third security uses open-source 
intelligence-gathering systems to identify early signs of high-impact events and emerging risks  to respond with confdence 
and manage crises more efectively. These reviews provide information that allows Fifth Third to adjust its security program as needed to ensure that it meets its strategic goal of ensuring a safe and secure environment for our customers and employees. 
68   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Attract 
Recruiting The Best and Brightest 
Attracting diverse and bright talent is essential 
to our success. The combination of competitive compensation, fexible work locations, best-in -
class benefts, innovative programs that foster work-life balance, fnancial rewards for physical and fnancial wellness activities and the Bank’s reputation as a business and community leader makes us attractive to prospective employees. 
With the Bank’s strategy to increase its  
presence in key Southeast markets, there  
was a focused efort on promoting a  
mix of internal and externally sourced  
talent to build a diverse team that refects  
the communities we serve. Using all  
recruitment avenues to secure top talent,  
the team hired 51 external candidates, and  
60 current employees transitioned to new  
roles to staf our 30 new banking centers.  
Among all new hires and transitions,  
58.6% are female and 56.8% are  
minorities. 
Brandon Williams, UX designer, with  
a collegiate participant at the FAMU  
Spring 2022 Fair. Diverse Recruiting and Hiring 
We believe the diversity of our workforce should refect the communities we serve. 
Our diversity recruiting strategy enables us 
to build strong relationships with a pool of qualifed diverse applicants that refects the demographics of our markets through a focus on women, minority and LGBT+ communities, individuals with disabilities and veterans. 
Part of this strategy includes relationships 
with key regional and community-based organizations and connections with diverse student organizations on campuses. Our strategy also emphasizes internships and long-term employment through various early career roles that provide a talent pipeline for professional roles across the organization. 
Our strong partnership with external providers 
and internal resources ensures that we engage with a diverse candidate population. This partnership provides talent acquisition services for professional and nonprofessional positions that solve compliance, scalability, cost, quality and other recruiting challenges. 
Other multicultural recruiting strategies and 
initiatives are detailed on page 57  of this report. Contents 
Early Career/University Relations 
The pandemic called for another year of heavy virtual engagement with our university partners and students. We expanded our reach by engaging with hundreds of students through virtual workshops, information and listening sessions, professional development panels and fnancial wellness series. 
Highlights include: 
•Our University Relations team attended over
30 virtual career fairs and over 25 virtualrelationship events.
•Filled 96 summer internships and 75 full-time positions.
•Enhanced all early career job descriptions andinterview guides  to appeal to and more efectively 
assess and select top early career talent.
•Provided career coaching scholarships tostudents at historically Black colleges anduniversities  in partnership with NextJob.
•Hosted students from four HBCU partneruniversities in the summer of 2021.
•Created an early career housing policythrough which the Bank ofers $2,000stipends to eligible interns and co-ops toofset the cost of moving for those positions.
•The Fifth Third Foundation, throughour AREEI commitments, awarded over$500,000 to support scholarships, fnancial
wellness and learning for students enrolled atour core HBCUs.Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
The team presented at the Bank’s frst virtual HBCU Leadership Conference and engaged in several other leadership eforts with our core HBCUs. University Relations also collaborated with organizations such as Dell Technologies and 84.51° to bring student insights into our cybersecurity, identity protection, technical interview prep and Agile eforts. Students from Clark Atlanta, Tennessee State, North Carolina Central and Florida A&M universities participated in these sessions that reached over 100 students. 
Our summer 2021 internship program, while 
90% virtual, did bring all interns to our headquarters at the end of the summer for a weeklong internship celebration. Interns participated in numerous activities and engaged with Enterprise members, Fifth Third leaders and other Leadership Program participants. All interns received new Chromebook computers in appreciation of their hard work. In addition, many received ofers of employment to join the Bank upon graduation. 
69  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
SOCIAL 
Communities 
Fifth Third is proud to be an active 
member of the communities we serve. 
As such, we have a vested interest in 
helping our neighbors achieve their 
best lives. 
The decisions we make and actions we take as a Bank can 
improve lives and make generational, transformative changes in 
the neighborhoods, towns and cities within our footprint. We see 
this as both a responsibility and a privilege. 
Community Reinvestment Act 
Outstanding  
CRA Rating Our Community 
Reinvestment Act rating 
from the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland is 
“Outstanding.”  This rating 
represents an evaluation of 
Fifth Third’s CRA activities from Jan. 1, 2014, through June 30, 
2016. Due to the Bank’s conversion in 2019 to a national bank 
charter under the U.S. Ofce of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the next CRA examination is expected to occur in July 2022. 
Community Advisory Forum 
The frst step in helping to bring about enduring, positive change 
is having a collaborative working relationship with the leaders of 
our communities. We operate a national Community Advisory 
Forum and fve regional CAFs that comprise leaders who work 
in a variety of industries. CAF members advise us on the best 
courses of action—and let us know if we’re not doing enough. Fifth Third Executive Vice President Kala Gibson  sponsors our 
national CAF. 
In 2021, we began the process of retiring national CAF members 
whose terms had ended and recruiting new membership from 
community leaders whose diversity and experience would 
best refect our fve ESG priorities, especially our inclusion and 
diversity initiatives. Specifcally, our new members are dedicated 
to helping Fifth Third fulfll its $2.8 billion Accelerating Racial 
Equality, Equity and Inclusion initiative. 
Fifth Third has had a CAF in place for many years, but 
the strategy was formalized with the fve-year, $32 billion 
Community Commitment we signed in 2016 with the National 
Community Reinvestment Coalition. The Commitment itself 
was drafted after we consulted with over 200 local community 
organizations. In early 2021, we celebrated the Commitment’s 
successful conclusion in 2020 by delivering $41.6 billion in the 
communities we serve, 30% above our goal. 
Understanding our Communities 
In addition to our work with CAFs, we undertake an annual 
community needs assessment in our communities to help us ensure 
we are serving them in the most efective, impactful and sustainable ways. These surveys have identifed three critical needs: access to 
capital, workforce development and building capacity.  Fifth Third 
continues its work to address these pressing needs. 
In 2021, in lieu of the community needs assessment, the Bank’s 
Corporate Responsibility Ofce ran an extensive stakeholder 
materiality assessment that broadened the scope of the project 
from community stakeholders to include investors and employees. 
Results of the assessment can be found on page 12 . FIFTH THIRD BANK NATIONAL COMMUNITY 
ADVISORY FORUM MEMBERS* 
Patrick Briaud,  Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, New York. 
Stephanie Byrd,  American Red Cross, Cincinnati. 
Josh Earn,  National Housing Trust, Washington. 
Mary Ehrsam,  Operation Hope, New York. 
Connie Evans, Association for Enterprise Opportunity, Chicago. 
Steven Hall , LISC, Chicago. 
Jill Houghton,  DisabilityIn, Alexandria, Virginia. 
Chris Kizzie,  Enterprise Community Partners, Cleveland. 
Laura Levine, Jump$tart Coalition, Washington. 
Lori Little,  National Afordable Housing Trust, Columbus, Ohio. 
Ying McGuire,  National Minority Supplier Development Council, 
Austin, Texas. 
Fred Mitchell,  United Negro College Fund, New York. 
Carol Naughton,  Purpose Built Communities, Atlanta. 
Keith Rachey,  Community Reinvestment Fund, USA, 
Minneapolis. 
Buzz Roberts , National Association of Afordable Housing 
Lenders, Washington. 
Aaron Seybert,  Kresge Foundation, Detroit. 
Charles Sharid , Central State University, Wilberforce, Ohio. 
Germaine Smith-Baugh , Urban League of Broward County, Ft. 
Lauderdale, Florida. 
Luz Urrutia, Accion Opportunity Fund, Washington. 
Jesse Van Tol, National Community Reinvestment Coalition, 
Washington. 
Angela Williams,  UnitedWay Worldwide, Chicago. 
*As of May 31, 2022. 70  
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Financial and 
Economic Inclusion 
Financial and economic 
inclusion drives the Bank’s Corporate Responsibility Ofce. The team collaborates across business lines to ensure that Fifth Third is doing all it can to help people reach their full potential. 
Adopting a One Bank approach, the 
CRO team is leading the efort to reverse negative cycles among low- and moderate-income Americans to help build strong foundations for the future. 
By delivering comprehensive and innovative 
solutions, Fifth Third is tackling low homeownership rates in underserved communities, diminished access to capital for small businesses seeking to start or expand, and addressing the gap in fnancial education and workforce development. Small Businesses 
Small businesses are paramount to a vibrant, sustainable economy.  Fifth Third supports 
small businesses both directly and indirectly to be a bridge to the services—including lending, lines of credit and other prducts—business owners most need to start and maintain their businesses and see them grow. 
PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM 
In 2020 and through June 2021, Fifth Third 
bankers and relationship managers worked tirelessly to support our business customers by working with them to originate 66,000 PPP loans with the U.S. Small Business Administration.  The total value of those loans 
was $7.4 billion  and supported over 835,000 
jobs.  Of our PPP loans, 96% went to small 
businesses  with fewer than 50 employees, and 
87% of the loans were for less than $150,000. 
As the pandemic continued, the Bank’s 
support shifted from PPP loan origination to PPP loan forgiveness. As of January 2022, our bankers had helped our business customers with forgiveness of 48,000 PPP loans worth $6 billion. 
Fifth Third bankers and 
relationship managers 
originated 66,000  PPP loans 
valuing $7.4 billion . Contents 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
We know there are times when small businesses 
require additional assistance and guidance, and a key provider is community development fnancial institutions. These private institutions provide responsible, afordable capital to those who are unable to use traditional banking products  or resources, and Fifth Third 
is committed to supporting them. 
In 2021, Fifth Third partnered with the 
Community Reinvestment Fund  to leverage 
Connect2Capital , a digital collaboration 
platform that matches businesses with CDFIs in their communities in order for them to take the next step forward. Connect2Capital pairs small businesses with mission-driven lending partners that bridge the gap between where a business is and where it wants to go. 
We also provide capital directly to CDFIs. This 
money not only provides loans but invaluable coaching and technical assistance, too. We 
have strong working relationships with CDFIs in most of our markets. Among these is the Black Business Capital Financing Corp. in Florida, whose Construction Contractor’s Assistance Program we support. It provides Black contractors with BBCFC’s industry-specifc business advisory services, which include access to loan and bond capital and procurement advocacy. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
We also have been a long-term supporter of the Columbus, Ohio-based Economic Community Development Institute , one of 
the top SBA intermediary microlenders.  The 
Fifth Third Foundation has provided funding to support its Microenterprise program, which ofers capital, training and assistance to underserved and underbanked idea- and growth-stage business owners. In Cincinnati, Fifth Third supports the Greater Cincinnati Microenterprise Initiative  and its program to 
start a loan pool to support minority businesses in the startup and growth phases of their business. 
U.S. SBA 
Preferred 
Lender 
SBA PROGRAM LENDING 
As a U.S. SBA Preferred Lender, we continue 
to invest in the SBA program and in our ability to ofer several types of SBA loans, including 7(a), Express and 504 loans. We are investing in technology and in our loan originators through focused SBA product training to help more customers gain access to the fexibility and versatility of SBA loan products. 
CONTINUED 71  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
COACHING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
Our largest CDFI relationship is with Accion , 
a global nonproft dedicated to helping 
small businesses. In 2021, the Fifth Third Foundation committed $1 million for access to capital and technical assistance to small businesses  across the Bank’s footprint as part 
of its AREEI initiative . 
In 2021, we began partnering with the Accion 
Opportunity Fund to create a business coaching hub through which women of color business owners were matched as coaches with Black-owned businesses.  The hub elevated the work of the women of color coaches and delivered experienced, focused help so that minority entrepreneurs could fuel growth in their businesses and continue serving their communities. 
Fifth Third and AOF collaborated last year 
to deliver educational webinars on targeted business topics that reached over 3,000 small 
business owners. In October, we partnered to host a freside chat on the state of small businesses, specifcally for entrepreneurs of color, and actions that could help ensure a successful recovery after the pandemic. Fifth Third Executive Vice President Kala Gibson joined AOF Executive Ofcer Luz Urrutia on the chat. Contents 
ACCESS TO CAPITAL 
We are committed to helping small businesses 
get quick access to needed capital. Our Fifth Third Fast Capital digital lending platform facilitates that access by providing unsecured loans for up to $100,000.  In 2021, 
the capabilities of the platform were enhanced to enable an eligible applicant to receive an SBA counterofer on capital if they are initially declined for a traditional product. 
In addition, Fifth Third signifcantly 
invests in capital access funds throughout our footprint. These funds, such as the 
Entrepreneurs of Color fund in Detroit, operate as new sources of capital for businesses owned by entrepreneurs of color and businesses that hire primarily people of color. The Fifth Third CDC was an initial investor in the Detroit Fund and provided $3 million in 2018. 
We also have several ongoing capital access 
initiatives with Accion. In one, we aim to serve at least 1,500 Black-owned businesses with small business loans totaling $30 million over three years.  This efort is supported by 
targeted customer research surveys and focus groups to help identify the best partners and communications channels through which we can reach a greater number of Black owners in new markets where AOF historically has not had a strong presence. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
$3 million 
invested in Detroit Entrepreneurs o
Color Fund f 
$1 million 
from the Fifth Third Foundation to support Black -owned businesses 
through Accion 
$200,000 
from the Fifth Third Foundation to connect small business owners with afordable capital 
In another collaboration with AOF, the Fifth 
Third Foundation provided $200,000 to connect underserved small business owners with afordable and transparent capital to help their businesses grow.  AOF provides 
small business loans of $5,000 to $200,000, with an average loan of $20,000, to diverse entrepreneurs with small capital needs and no credit or imperfect credit. 
72 Fifth Third’s Kala Gibson  and Accion  
Opportunity Fund’s Luz Urrutia hosted  
a virtual freside chat for entrepreneurs   
of color to provide guidance on how to  
successfully navigate the pandemic. Pictured  
with Gibson (bottom) and Urrutia (top left)  
is Reign Free of Red Door Catering.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
SOCIAL 
Afordable Housing 
Afordable housing, or the lack of it, 
continues to be a persistent problem in many communities across our footprint. 
Introduced in 2016, our Down Payment 
Assistance program has helped nearly 5,500 individuals achieve the American dream of homeownership. DPA ofers down payment assistance of up to $5,000* depending on eligibility. In 2021, our DPA program helped 
enable the purchase of 980 homes . Since the 
inception of the program, we’ve provided over $18 million  in DPA assistance. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OFFICE 
Afordable housing is a priority of Fifth Third’s 
Corporate Responsibility Ofce, especially its Community Development group. The primary 
focus of this group is to fnance afordable housing projects that have received reservations of Low-Income Housing Tax Credits, or LIHTC. The group is positioned to meet the unique 
A rendering of the John Arthur Flats  
project, which was funded, in part, by  
the Fifth Third Development Co. banking and capital needs of leading for-proft an
d nonproft developers of afordable housing. 
Among the fundamental strategic objectives of the Community Development group are to: 
•  Proactively address the community and economic development needs  of local 
communities. 
•  Deliver impactful projects  that provide 
afordable housing, services to low- and moderate-income families, stabilize neighborhoods and create jobs in the communities served by Fifth Third. In 2021, Fifth Third’s Community Development group closed on more than $500 million in loans and investments . This commitment 
created and preserved over 6,000 units of afordable housing  for low- and moderate-
income people, including families and seniors. In addition, six loans and investments went to development projects that will provide jobs and services for communities in the Bank’s footprint. 
One notable investment of the Fifth Third 
Community Development Co., part of the Community Development group, was the John Arthur Flats housing project  in Cincinnati in 
2021. The property is named after John Arthur, the late spouse of Jim Obergefell, the lead plaintif in the 2015 U.S. Supreme Court case Obergefell v. Hodges, which legalized same-sex marriage throughout the United States. The property will contain 57 new one- and two-bedroom apartments for LGBTQ seniors whose 
income ranges from 30% to 60% of the area mean income. The Community Development group provided $13.2 million of equity and a construction loan of $7.6 million for the project. 
“Fifth Third’s Community Development group works in collaboration with public and private 
organizations to help revitalize neighborhoods so people will have the opportunity to thrive in 
the environments where they live and work. These projects are critical to the stabilization of 
neighborhoods and economic growth for the community’s residents.” 
KEITH BURGESS, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GROUP HEAD OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT. 
*Lending subject to credit review and approval. 2021: To be eligible for down payment assistance, borrowers can qualify based upon income level and/or by purchasing property in a low income census tract. Down payment assistance up to $5,000 is available. The subject property must be in one of the following eligible states: MI, IN, IL, 
KY, TN, OH, WV, NC, GA, FL, SC and be located in a low income census tract, or borrower must meet the low income limit threshold based on the qualifying income per FFEIC website. Down payment assistance may be taxable as income and reported to the IRS. Consult your tax advisor. Not available with all loan products. Fifth Third Bank, National Association, 38 Fountain Square Plaza, Cincinnati, OH 45263. NMLS#402345. Equal Housing Lender. Fifth Third and Fifth Third Bank are registered service marks of Fifth Third Bancorp. 
CONTINUED 73  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
FEATURE 
Bank’s Community 
Development Co. Helps Fill Gaps in Neighborhoods 
The Fifth Third Community 
Development Co. invests in real 
estate projects across our footprint 
to help communities thrive. These 
investments can include afordable 
housing, small business spaces or 
commercial projects. 
“Without this type of 
investment, many of 
these projects would 
struggle to come 
to life,” said Susan 
Thomas, the CDC’s 
president. “We look for 
projects that fll a need 
in the community. 
What do the people 
living there need that 
they don’t currently have?” 
Images from left to right: A rendering of Blair Lofts, an afordable housing 
development in Cincinnati’s Avondale neighborhood; Fifth Third’s investment 
in the National Equity Fund’s Emerging Minority Developer Fund is enabling 
more afordable housing projects like this one; Five Rivers Health Centers in 
Dayton, Ohio, ofers vital services to community residents. 
Susan Thomas, president, 
Fifth Third CDC. Contents 
Helping up-and-coming minority 
real estate developers break through 
fnancial barriers 
In November 2021, the Bank announced it was 
one of eight banks to invest a total of $85 
million in frst-round funding for National 
Equity Fund’s Emerging Minority Developer 
Fund.  The EMDF was established to help 
emerging minority-owned developers gain 
access to low income housing tax credits to 
create afordable housing. The EMDF does this 
by providing tax credit equity capital, technical 
support and tailored project underwriting to 
help the developers establish a track record of 
success and improve their fnancial stability as 
their business grows. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Neighborhoods need health care, too 
When a neighborhood has quality health care 
facilities, the resulting improved outcomes can 
help lead to longer, happier lives. Five Rivers 
Health Centers , a federally qualifed health 
center serving the Dayton, Ohio, community, 
also received funds from our Community 
Development Co. The CDC investment will assist 
the construction of Five Rivers’ new Edgemont 
campus, located in the racially and economically 
diverse neighborhood of West Dayton. The 
new facility will ofer services including internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics, 
dental, hematology and oncology, psychiatry, 
sports medicine, addiction medicine, general surgery, infectious diseases, gastroenterology, 
acupuncture and massage therapy in one 
location. This new facility will serve over 
15,000 patients,  regardless of their insurance 
status or ability to pay. 
“Without the unwavering commitment from 
Fifth Third to this project, there is no way 
that Five Rivers Health Centers could have 
embarked on our frst property,” said Gina 
McFarlane-El, chief executive ofcer. 
Bringing afordable housing to 
Cincinnati’s Avondale through 
Empowering Black Futures 
neighborhood program 
The Blair Lofts  project is an afordable housing 
development in Avondale, a neighborhood 
in Cincinnati. Avondale is one of the 
neighborhoods selected for our Fifth Third 
Empowering Black Futures neighborhood 
investment program. The project’s frst 
phase includes the construction of 64 units, 
consisting of a mix of one-, two- and three-
bedroom apartments that will be afordable 
for families earning between 30%-60% of the 
area’s median income. The location is along a bus line and within walking distance to the 
University of Cincinnati’s innovation corridor, 
a multimillion-dollar revitalization efort with 
mixed-use development. 
As part of our fnancial commitment to 
the project, the Fifth Third Community 
Development Co. provided a $9.4 million 
equity investment,  and Fifth Third provided a 
$10.5 million construction loan. 
74  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 E .2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Another impactful investment closed by the 
Community Development Group in 2021 was 43 Green , a 99-unit mixed-income housing 
community located in the historic Bronzeville neighborhood of Chicago. The property is also adjacent to the Green Line 43rd Street station. The property’s 99 apartment units will consist of 36 studio units, 45 one-bedroom apartments and 18 two-bedroom apartments; 51 will be afordable to households earning no more than 50% and 60% of the area median income, and 49 will be unrestricted market-rate units. The Community Development group provided $18.5 million of equity  and a construction loan of $14.5 million. 
In addition to the work of our community development group, the CRO team actively seeks collaborations with organizations that will address the lack of afordable housing and fnancial services in underserved communities . 
These community partnerships are essential to our ability to reach individuals and families and improve lives. N EIGHBORWORKS AMERICA 
A
fter a successful collaboration in 2020 to 
help ensure foreclosure mitigation, eviction protection and fnancial coaching services were available to low- and moderate-income individuals during the pandemic, Fifth Third and NeighborWorks teamed up again in 2021 on an innovative program to make transformational improvement in minority homeownership. NeighborWorks America is an organization that creates opportunities for people to live in afordable homes, improve their lives and strengthen their communities.  
The Fifth Third Foundation has committed $1 million to NeighborWorks America to support the organization’s national investment to increase Black homeownership. The foundation’s investment will help launch and implement a competitive grant program to accelerate local, successful strategies to create more minority homeowners. Through grants and peer sharing, NeighborWorks identifes and supports innovative homeownership initiatives and then helps to scale and replicate those models throughout its network.  Contents 
By focusing on equity in homeownership, NeighborWorks is helping to accelerate wealth building in underserved communities. Homeownership provides critical stability for minority families, and with the right resources and support, is part of a successful strategy for long-term wealth building in communities. Fifth Third is delighted to be NeighborWorks’ partner in advancing Black homeownership and wealth building today and into the future.   
HO
MEOWNERSHIP SEMINARS 
I
n addition to major funding from the Fifth 
Third Foundation, Fifth Third also worked with NeighborWorks last year to host educational 
webinars to help people understand the homebuying process.  It also hosts these 
experiences with other community agencies and CDFIs, like Accion, to educate community members about the homebuying process. 
In June, National Homeownership Month, 
we hosted Owning It! seminars  in Ohio and 
Kentucky. In partnership with community agencies across the states, the virtual seminars covered topics including the advantages of homeownership, credit and credit repair, loan preapproval, fnding a real estate agent, home shopping do’s and don’ts, and the mortgage process, including closing. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Owning It!
 A FREE virtual workshop 
Get information about aordable mortgage options and let us help 
you open the door to homeownership. 
Workshop Topics: 
• Why Become a Homebuyer? • House Shopping Do’s and Don’ts 
• Credit and Credit Repair • Finding the Right Mortgage 
• Loan Pre-Approval • The Closing Process 
• Finding a Realtor 
Saturday, June 4, 2022  | Noon to 1:30 p.m. 
Register at https:/ /tinyurl.com/OwningIt-SU22. 
The virtual meeting ID will be sent out after the RSVP. 
Fifth Third Bank, National Association. Member FDIC  qual Housing Lender 22-05_CDSR_Slick_Owning It 2022 
Virtual Owning It! 
seminars covered topics 
including the advantages 
of homeownership, credit 
and credit repair, loan 
preapproval, fnding a 
real estate agent, home 
shopping do’s and don’ts, 
and the mortgage process. 
75  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Financial Education, Access and Stability 
Woodcrest Elementary in Columbus, Ohio, was among the schools that  
received a Fifth Third Young Bankers Club technology grant in 2021. Fifth Third is committed to 
fnancial education, access 
and stability. For more than 
15 years, we’ve ofered a suite 
of fnancial empowerment 
programs that are designed to 
educate and empower people 
so that they have to the tools 
they need to achieve their 
dreams and live their best lives. 
L.I.F.E. Programs 
Fifth Third’s L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved through 
Financial Empowerment®) programs were designed to educate people at nearly every age and stage of life. Since 2004, Fifth Third has helped educate 2.8 million people in the ways of personal fnance. F
IFTH THIRD YOUNG BANKERS CLUB® 
Nearly 35,000 
young bankers have graduated from our signature Fifth Third Young Bankers Club program since 2004. Over 
4,500 students participated in 2021, when we launched a digital version of the program to increase its accessibility and provide teachers with greater fexibility.  In only 30-45 minutes 
per week over an eight-week period, teachers can help students learn all the basics of fnance online at any time. 
The free YBC program features Maximillion 
Money™, the 10-year-old character featured in all digital lessons. Maximillion takes kids to the New York Stock Exchange, the U.S. Mint and a Fifth Third banking center. The gamifed 
Contents 
lessons enable students to “level up” as they learn  about budgeting, banking and payment 
methods, borrowing money, jobs and income, saving and investing, and more. 
In November 2021, Fifth Third made 13 
technology grants of $10,000 each to schools and nonproft organizations that were actively engaging with our new digital Young Bankers Club program. The grants enabled the organizations to purchase and incorporate more tools into their educational curriculums to boost technological access in their communities. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
FIFTH THIRD BANK FINANCE ACADEMY® 
We ofer two fnancial education courses for 
high school students through our Fifth Third Bank Finance Academy program—foundational fnance and entrepreneurship. The program is focused on high-need students and schools, with 51% of students coming from underserved communities. In the 2020-21 school year, 127,173 
students completed nearly 300,000 hours  of 
learning. To date, more than 450,000 students have taken Finance Academy courses and completed over one million hours of learning. 
CONTINUED 76  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
As measured by pre- and post-course 
assessments, students’ scores increased by 50% 
after taking the fnancial education course and 67% after the entrepreneurship course. 
In addition to underwriting the courses to ensure they are ofered at no cost, the Bank also funds scholarships for students to use toward higher education. In 2021, 
we provided $70,000 in scholarships to 28 deserving Finance Academy students. Winners 
are chosen on the strength of essays they write regarding the knowledge they’ve gained and their plans for managing their fnancial futures. More than 3,300 scholarship entries were submitted. 
Zania Lane is a Michigan student  
whose essay earned her a Finance  
Academy scholarship in 2021.  In her  
essay she said the lessons she learned  
about business pitches will help her in  
future career as a nuclear physicist. RETIREMENT UNIVERSITY® 
R
etirement University presents a holistic 
approach to retirement planning  through 
its website . It is a free educational program 
backed by the expertise of Fifth Third fnancial professionals to help consumers prepare for all aspects of retirement. Retirement University covers topics ranging from income needs to second careers. Lessons include planning and investments, retirement income, health care needs, life-stage planning and more. Fifth Third also published an eBook  about women and 
retirement. Available online, the eBook addresses the unique challenges women face in retirement planning, including income disparity, time away and life expectancy. 
E
BUS 
Since 2004, Fifth Third’s fnancial empowerment mobile strategy has enabled us to take fnancial access and education directly into the communities we serve, 
especially the underserved. 
The strategy is headlined by our eBus  and 
supported by our Banking to Go kiosk, which can be set up at community events. Both the eBus and Banking to Go are equipped so we can provide fnancial education, credit reports and bank account openings, including our new Bank On-certifed Express Banking account. Other services include homebuyer and small business resources and job search assistance. Contents 
In 2021, we were thrilled to resume in-person eBus community events. Following recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control, we were able to serve 7,546 people 
through eBus events last year. 
Fifth Third’s eBus ofers computer workstations to enable its fnancial empowerment 
programming. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
FIFTH THIRD EMPOWER U® 
M
ore than 41,000 
people took our 
Fifth Third Empower U® courses in 2021. 
These courses are taught by our bankers on-site or virtually at 
various companies and in conjunction with our community partners. There were 5,456 courses taught last year, including a fnancial wellness checkup and classes that teach fnancial health, investments and planning, insurance planning, homeownership and college funding. Fifth Third Empower U began in 2012 and has helped educate over 164,000 people since that time. 
“Our relationships 
with community 
organizations 
help us deliver our 
fnancial education, 
accessibility and 
stability products and services 
to individuals and families. Our 
partnership is key to our ability 
to improve lives. We’re so 
proud of the work we’ve been 
able to do together.” 
–STEFANIE STEWARD YOUNG , CHIEF SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY OFFICER. 
77 trac
ts in 2021: 
•Southeast Cobb  in Georgia.
•Cary Park  in North Carolina.
•Midtown East  in North Carolina.
•Bayshore Gardens  in Florida.
•Eastway Crossing serving North
Carolina and South Carolina.
•Capitol Boulevard  in North Carolina.
•Duluth  in Georgia.
•South Square  in North Carolina.
Gulfgate Plaza  in Florida. •Fifth Third opened nine fnancial 
centers in LMI or high minority 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
     
    2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
Economic Inclusion/Banking Deserts 
Fifth Third’s Decision Sciences team spent 
signifcant time identifying banking deserts within our footprint. To address the gaps in the availability of quality fnancial services, we have sought opportunities to open branches in those communities. The Bank’s fnancial empowerment mobile strategy—our eBus and Banking to Go kiosk—help us to provide even greater coverage by taking fnancial services directly into underserved communities.   
In 2021, we opened nine new, or de novo, 
branches in low- and moderate-income or high minority population census tracts, representing 30% of our de novo branches we opened last year. As part of Fifth Third’s expansion in the Southeast, we expect about 25% of new branches in that region to be located in those communities. We also are planning to open or update fnancial centers in areas chosen for the Fifth Third Empowering Black Futures neighborhood program.  Four de novo 
branches are planned, four branches will be refreshed to refect our newest design, and one is under consideration and development in conjunction with First Liberty Bank and Trust. For more information about branches in these nine neighborhoods, see page 30 . 
Contents 
Workforce Development 
A strong workforce is key to healthy, sustainable communities. Fifth Third desires to develop a strong workforce, which is why we collaborate with NextJob, a national reemployment company. Since 2012, we have partnered with NextJob to provide personalized job coaching and training to out-of-work individuals or those looking to advance their careers. We also have ofered the Job Seeker’s Toolkit, a series of online training modules, at no cost to Fifth Third customers. In 2021, Fifth Third and NextJob helped more than 2,000 job seekers.  
Our Bank also collaborates with Steady , a 
leading technology platform, to connect 
our customers to part-time jobs in their communities.  We formed this collaboration 
during the pandemic to facilitate extra income opportunities for our customers. 
Dorresa is a single mother  
who was living in a shelter  
when she was referred to Fifth  
Third’s NextJob program.  
Doressa ultimately got two  
job ofers and accepted a position that is  
meeting her family’s needs. “I’m overjoyed  
to be able to provide for my children, to  
have our own roof…to be free, to be us,  
to laugh and giggle, and not wonder ‘is  
the shelter going to kick us out?’. I have  
fnancial stability now. I have so much  
gratitude for Fifth Third.” 
Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Inclusive Products and Services 
In 2021, Fifth Third Express Banking® , 
which has no monthly service charge, balance requirements or overdraft fees, received Bank On certifcation from the Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund. Bank On National Account Standards were developed to ensure expanded access to safe and appropriate fnancial products and services to the nearly 36 million people in the United States outside of the mainstream fnancial system. 
In addition to the certifcation, Fifth Third supports regional Bank On coalitions to create 
awareness of Bank On certifed accounts. In 2022, Fifth Third donated to fve regional Bank On coalitions in Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Louisville and Tampa. Together, the organizations provided free volunteer tax preparation to community members. 
Credit, when used responsibly, can make a 
real diference.  It can enhance a consumer’s 
chances of acquiring a future loan, including a mortgage to achieve homeownership. The Fifth Third Secured Card * is a credit card 
designed to help customers build or rebuild their credit. It is a secured card, meaning it is secured by the customer placing a minimum $300 deposit into a new Fifth Third Momentum® account. This deposit funds the account and is used to determine the borrower’s credit limit to help prevent spending beyond the customer’s means. 
Fifth Third’s Southeast Cobb Financial Center opened in 2021. 
78  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
SOCIAL 
Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy 
Fifth Third desires to be the 
best possible corporate citizen. 
It’s not our goal simply to 
serve communities or foster 
their well-being, but to be an 
integral part of them. 
Citizenship 
Citizenship requires more than simple residence 
in a place; it requires engagement, action and commitment.  We exercise our citizenship by 
engaging in regular conversations in communities across our footprint to ensure we have a pulse on what is happening there. Our employees serve on various boards —from major nonprofts 
to local school and church committees. As a company, it is our job to support our employees’ commitments to these organizations by allowing fexible work schedules and accommodations so they can perform these essential duties. We do not view these commitments as separate from their roles, but as an integral part of our Bank’s commitment to good citizenship. 
Volunteerism 
We are proud of all of our employee volunteers who devote their time and resources through volunteerism. We are especially proud of our top fve, who together served over 5,500 volunteer hours. Our thanks go to Tina Koczeniak,  senior In 2021, our employees logged 
97,058 hours 
of community service, 
the equivalent of $2,770,035 . 
sales resource center specialist; Douglas Fris, fnancial center manager; Samantha Baker, Bancorp resolution specialist; Nathan Cherry, 
performing servicing manager; and Delonda Belanger,  senior portfolio manager. 
K
oczeniak said she strives to live by the quote 
from Ralph Waldo Emerson: “The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be honorable, to be compassionate, to have it make some diference that you have lived and lived well.” 
Disaster and Crisis Relief 
When disaster and crises occur, Fifth Third strives to be quick to respond. In 2021, when devastating tornadoes tore through Kentucky, the Fifth Third Foundation provided $200,000 to the American Red Cross  to support individuals and 
families. We also activated our American Red Cross microsite and the Fifth Third Cares Fund, a mechanism for short-term, emergency support for employees and their eligible dependents, so that employees could make their own donations. We collected nearly $3,500 through our microsite. In early 2022, the Fifth Third Foundation made a $100,000 donation for humanitarian relief in war-ravaged Ukraine ; our employees also 
personally donated nearly $39,000 to the efort. 
United Way 
In 2021, our employees and the Fifth Third Foundation combined to raise $6.7 million for United Way agencies across our footprint, 
a signifcant increase over the $5 million raised in 2020. 
The Bank also was recognized again in 2021 as one of the top 25 United Way campaigns in our headquarters city. We were No. 2 in 2021, after being No. 2 in 2020 and No. 3 in 2019. 
ArtsWave 
Fifth Third employees generously participate each year in a campaign to beneft ArtsWave, a nonproft organization that is the engine 
for the arts in Greater Cincinnati, where Fifth Third is headquartered. Through its annual campaign, ArtsWave supports more than 150 projects and cultural organizations; it provides funding, services and advocacy to fuel a more vibrant regional economy and community connected through the arts. In 2021, Fifth Third employees and the Fifth 
Third Foundation combined to make a gift of nearly $1 million to ArtsWave. Fifth Third and its Employees 
Rally to Support Ukraine  
As war broke out in Ukraine, the Fifth Third 
Foundation and the Bank’s employees rallied to support the individuals and families who were impacted. It wasn’t just their buildings, their economy and their infrastructure that was under attack; their very lives were at stake. Unfortunately, as of the publication of this report, they still are. 
Fifth Third wanted to support the millions 
of refugees feeing their homeland and the millions more staying behind to defend their country. In March, the Fifth Third Foundation  
donated $100,000 to the American Red Cross  to support Ukrainian relief eforts by the  
International Federation of the American Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
Our employees  
wanted to 
help, too. We established a special microsite to enable employees to personally donate to the cause safely and securely. As of June 1, employees had donated $39,000 to help the  
people of Ukraine.   
While the deepening crisis is unfolding far from our service areas, we are, all of us, citizens of the world, and all of us are afected by this tragedy. We stand in solidarity with Ukraine. 
79  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report 
SOCIAL 
The Fifth Third Foundation, 
established in 1948, was among the frst foundations created by a corporation. Its founding was a key benchmark in a long history of philanthropic giving for Fifth Third. 
Fifth Third Foundation 
$26,193,568 
Fifth Third Chicagoland Foundation 
$3,405,069 
Fifth Third Bank Corporate Giving 
$11,028,204 
TOTAL 
$40,626,833 In 2021, philanthropic giving totaled 
$40.6 million,  which includes giving from 
the Fifth Third Foundation, the Fifth Third Chicagoland Foundation and Fifth Third Bank corporate giving. 
The Fifth Third Foundation supports 
communities served by Fifth Third Bank in the areas of health and human services, community development, arts and culture, and education. The Fifth Third Chicagoland Foundation serves the philanthropic needs of the Chicago area in housing and economic development, education, health and human services, and civic and community outreach. 
Combined, the eforts of the Foundation 
Ofce at Fifth Third Bank as well as corporate donations and local community sponsorships enable us to respond to many community needs, including food and feeding programs, health and wellness, revitalization and stabilization, and services to the underserved. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Feeding the Hungry 
Fifth Third’s annual “Feeding our 
Communities” initiative, which aligns with United Nations Sustainable Development Goal No. 2, Zero Hunger, has helped to feed hungry Americans in our footprint for many years. In 2021, Fifth Third’s initiative provided more than 4.6 million meals during the monthlong efort in May. The efort 
included virtual volunteer activities by employees and monetary donations. 
Feeding America®, the nation’s largest domestic 
hunger-relief organization through a network of 200 food banks across the country, projects that 42 million people, including 13 million children, risked food insecurity in 2021, a challenge exacerbated by the pandemic. 
In 2022, with the return of more widely-available 
volunteer opportunities, Fifth Third expanded its goal and sought to provide 5.3 million meals across the Bank’s footprint. 
Fifth Third employees work to fght 
hunger and provide meals to the community as part of its Fifth Third Day activities in May 2022 in Cincinnati. 
Left: In the Chicagoland region in 2021, employees helped provide 693,000 meals through packed lunches for Uncle Pete’s ministries and a food drive for the Foodbank of 
Northwest Indiana.; Right: The pit crew from the No. 17 Fifth Third Bank Mustang, driven by Chris Buescher in the NASCAR Cups Series, loads food drive donations to be delivered to Second Harvest Food Bank in Charlotte in 2021. 
80 
  
  
    
 
  
    
 
    
 
 --2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Governance 
One of our most valuable assets at Fifth 
Third is our reputation for integrity. We 
are judged by our conduct, and we must 
act in a manner that merits public trust and confdence. 
We believe that a strong governance 
program is the foundation for a 
sustainable and well governed company. 
Accordingly, we continuously evaluate 
our structures, processes and controls 
to ensure they support and promote 
accountability, efectiveness, transparency and ethical behavior. IN THIS SECTION 
• 82 Corporate Governance 
• 85 Business  Ethics 
• 87 Public Policy and Government 
Relations 
• 88 Enterprise Risk Management 
• 90 Customer Privacy and Information Security 
• 93 Third Party Management 
81  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
 
 1i
-2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
GOVERNANCE 
Board Committee Oversight 
of ESG Corporate Governance 
• Nominating & Corporate Governance 
Board of Directors Committee:  Oversees the Company’s ESG 
Our Board of Directors provides oversight of, MB Financial, Inc. We have a lead independent 
40% 
DIVERSE 
87% 
INDEPENDENT program, including practices and reporting DIRECTORS’ and guidance to, our executive management director who is elected annually by the related to environmental topics, governance DIVERSITY* team in the development of corporate strategy, independent directors and facilitates independent strategy and practices, and other corporate 
risk management, corporate culture and other Board oversight of management. social responsibilities that are signifcant to 
important aspects of our business, including our business and stakeholders. 
Forty percent of our Board is diverse in terms of ESG topics . In order to provide such oversight • Risk & Compliance Committee : Oversees ethnicity or gender, including the chairs of the and guidance, we believe it is important that risk management practices, including Audit Committee and Technology Committee. the Board include a substantial majority of ESG topics such as enterprise risk 
independent directors, strong independent Our 2022 Proxy Statement  includes information management, information security, data 
committee chairs and a diverse range of about the Board and its committees and their DIRECTORS’ privacy, climate risk and environmental 
backgrounds and experiences calibrated to the INDEPENDENCE* respective responsibilities. It also includes a risk. 
evolving needs of our business and stakeholders. Board Skills and Attributes Matrix that sets • Audit Committee: Oversees the integrity Our directors’ average tenure is 7.3 years. forth the diverse skills and attributes that each of our fnancial reporting and governance 
director contributes to the Board’s oversight All of our directors are independent under the programs. 
of the Company. Eleven of our directors have standards developed by Nasdaq and included in • Human Capital & Compensation experience in ESG matters, including all the our Corporate Governance Guidelines , except Committee: Oversees strategies and members of the Nominating and Corporate for our CEO and one director who was formerly policies regarding compensation, talent Governance Committee. employed by Fifth Third and served as CEO of management and executive succession 
planning, and other employment practices. 
Committee Composition* 
• Finance Committee: Exercises all the 
There are six standing committees of the Board of Directors, which assist the Board in carrying out its responsibilities. Committee leadership and powers of the Board in management of 
membership is reviewed annually by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.  business, properties and afairs during the 
Directors Nicholas K. Akins  (Lead 
Independent Director) B. Evan 
Bayh, III Jorge L. 
Benitez Katherine B. Blackburn Emerson L. Brumback 
Greg D. Carmichael 
(Board Chair) L nda W. 
Clement Holmes C. Bryan 
Daniels Mitchell S. Feiger Thomas H. 
Harvey Gray R. 
Heminger Jewell D. 
Hoover Michael B. McCallister Eileen A. Mallesch Marsha C. 
Williams 
Audit 2 Chair2 
Finance Chair 
Human Capital and 
Compensation Chair 
Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Chair 
Risk and Compliance Chair 
Technology Chair 
*As of April 12, 2022. 
 Member.  ¹Serves as an ex-ofcio, non-voting member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance, and Technology Committees.  ²Audit Committee Financial Expert. intervals between meetings of the Board 
of Directors. 
• Technology Committee: Oversees our 
technology, information security and data privacy strategies, which are critical to the interests of all stakeholders. 
CONTINUED 82  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
    
 2021 ESG Report Co ntents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
GOVERNANCE 
Board Performance Evaluation Process 
Director Written 
2 interviews evaluation conducted by questionnaire lead independent completed director 1 
Though evaluations occur continuously, 
our directors undergo a thorough annual 
evaluation process to help ensure that Board 
and committee oversight remain strong and 
that the mix of skills and backgrounds on the 
Board remains appropriate . The evaluation 
process includes one-on-one discussions 
between the lead independent director and 
each other independent director, full Board and committee written evaluations, and follow-up 
action items. 
These frank evaluations are an important part of 
sustainable governance and allow us to identify 
opportunities to enhance our efectiveness. 
The NCG Committee, which oversees these 
Board evaluations, also is responsible for 
identifying and assessing potential director 
candidates using established criteria and our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines . Anonymized Opportunities for results reviewed 4 improvement by NCG identiﬁed and Committee and prioritized Board 3 
Each director must possess the highest personal 
and professional ethics and integrity and should 
be committed to representing the interests 
of Fifth Third and our stakeholders. Directors 
must be willing to devote sufcient time to their 
duties and responsibilities. Directors also must 
undergo annual ethics training. 
The NCG Committee carefully considers 
these and other factors—including judgment, 
diversity and skills—in determining a mix that 
best serves the needs of the Board and Fifth 
Third. We strive to include candidates who 
refect the diverse markets which we serve 
when we choose our nominees. In addition, 
any third-party search frms engaged to assist 
in the searches for director candidates are 
required to include candidates with diverse 
characteristics. Proactive consideration of 
diverse candidates is an important part of the director recruitment process and is prioritized 
under our Corporate Governance Guidelines . Action items 6 Action items’ 
developed and progress 
implemented monitored 5 
Management 
Our management structure is intended to 
facilitate leadership that is efective and consistent 
with our corporate standards, and that promotes 
a strong corporate culture. We manage our 
organization on a line of business basis, while 
also maintaining strong corporate functions and appropriate governance . Our Company’s most 
senior management body is Enterprise, which 
is responsible for developing and implementing 
corporate strategy and managing executive-
level operations. ESG updates are provided to 
Enterprise throughout the year. 
ESG Committee 
In 2020, the NCG Committee established 
the Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee with a charter to provide oversight 
and review of policies, programs, practices, 
strategies and approach to ESG topics . 
ESG updates are regularly given to the NCG 
Committee as well as the Board of Directors. Members of the ESG Committee 
•  Chief Sustainability Ofcer  (chair) 
•  Chief Communications Ofcer, DeputyGeneral Council & Board Secretary 
•  Chief Compliance Ofcer; Director of Financial Crimes 
•  Chief Corporate Social Responsibility Ofcer 
•  Chief Fiduciary Ofcer; Director, Business Controls  (Wealth & Asset 
Management) 
•  Chief Financial Ofcer 
•  Chief Inclusion & Diversity Ofcer 
•  Chief Risk Ofcer 
•  Deputy General Counsel (Corporate) 
•  Director, Enterprise & Climate Risk Governance 
•  Head of Commercial Administration 
•  Director, Business Controls  
(Consumer) 
•  Chief Human Resources Ofcer 
•  Director of Investor Relations 
•  Chief Audit Executive (non-voting  
member) 
 
CONTINUED 83  ESG PERFORMANCE 
ASSESSMENT  
 
  NON-PERFORMING 
ASSETS (NPA) VS. PEERS 
 
 
 INDIVIDUAL 
OPPORTUNITY 
TARGET = % OF 
BASE SALARY  
 
 
 
 + OR - BASED
ON INDIVIDUAL
PERFORMANCE
AND RISK 
ASSESSMENT 
RATING   
 
 CAPITAL 
LEVELS VS. 
REQUIRED 
LEVELS    
2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
GOVERNANCE 
Executive Compensation Aligned 
to ESG 
Executive compensation is delivered through 
three primary elements: base salary, an 
annual cash incentive through our Variable 
Compensation Plan, and long-term, equity-
based incentives . The customer experience funding modifer 
was inc
luded beginning in the 2020 Variable 
Compensation Plan and is a qualitative 
assessment of the Bank’s annual performance 
of customer experience which may include 
external benchmarks and overall customer  
satisfaction results in the line of business scorecards. The executive compensation design plan is reviewed annually to determine if 
changes should be made to the plan for 
the next year. During the review in 2021, 
the Human Capital and Compensation 
Committee approved the addition of an 
ESG modifer for the 2022 Plan. The ESG 
modifer will be reviewed based on the 
Bank’s qualitative performance against the Company’s ESG priorities, as reviewed by the 
Board. For additional details on Fifth Third’s ESG priorities, refer to pages 13-15 . 
The Variable Compensation Plan’s objective is to reward executives for strong corporate, business unit and individual performance and is comprised of the following: 
PERFORMANCE 
HURDLES 
Performance hurdles must be met 
in order for any funding to occur BANCORP 
FUNDING METRICS 
A balanced set of Bancorp funding metrics 
determine the initial funding level under the plan 
ADJUSTED RETURN ON ASSETS (ROA) VS. PLAN 25% ADJUSTED EARNING PER SHARE (EPS) VS. PLAN 50% FUNDING 
MODIFIERS 
Funding modifers can increase (up to 10%) 
or decrease (no limit) the funding level 
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 
ADJUSTED EFFICIENCY RATIO VS. PLAN 25% FINAL PAYOUT 
84  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education &  
Awareness Anonymous,  
Confdential   
EthicsLine Conficts  
Council Annual Code  
Acknowledgment Annual Conficts of  
Interest Disclosure  
Questionnaire 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
GOVERNANCE 
Business Ethics 
Doing the right thing is 
central to achieving our vision 
to be the one bank people 
most value and trust. 
Our vision is a commitment that inspires 
our employees to create a great customer 
experience, an engaging workforce and vibrant communities.  It is the foundation of Fifth Third’s 
reputation as a respected corporate citizen and 
this commitment begins with each Fifth Third 
employee doing the right thing. 
FiftEthics Program 
h Third’s Ethics program is administered 
b
y the Ethics Ofce and overseen by the 
Chief Ethics Ofcer, who is responsible for the 
publication of our 
Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics and reports on key aspects of 
the Ethics program to the Audit Committee 
and the Risk and Compliance committee of 
the Board of Directors. Information reported 
includes EthicsLine activity and resolutions, 
conficts of interest matters, and culture and conduct risk reporting. 
In addition, the Ethics Ofce develops 
ethics training, employee communications on ethics matters, and conducts ethics 
program assessments. The Chief Ethics Ofcer may also escalate 
ethics matters directly to the Board. The Ethics 
program is audited and examined as part of the 
Fifth Third Audit schedule and the schedule of 
its examiners. 
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 
the foundation of our Ethics program at the 
Bank, which was recognized as one of the 2022 
World’s Most Ethical Companies®. This honor 
came from the highly respected Ethisphere 
Institute, a global leader in defning and 
advancing the standards of ethical business 
practices. It puts us in elite company, as 
only 136 organizations from around the 
globe—including only fve banks—received 
this recognition . Ethisphere scores companies 
in fve categories: ethics and compliance, 
culture of ethics, corporate citizenship and 
responsibility, governance, and leadership and reputation. This year was the third time the 
Bank has received this award : Ethisphere also 
recognized the Bank as one of the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies® in 2019 and 2021. Ethics Hotline 
Every Fifth Third employee has a 
responsibility to adhere to the Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics and raise 
issues if they become aware of misconduct 
or violations of our Code . Employees are 
encouraged to raise concerns directly with their 
manager or someone in their division’s reporting 
line with whom they feel comfortable talking. 
In addition, employees have access to their 
Human Resources business partner, the Employee Relations Resource Group, Business 
Security Operations Center, or the Ethics Ofce, 
including the 24-hour EthicsLine. Reports can 
be made to the EthicsLine at any time and 
employees can choose to remain anonymous. All 
reports are investigated and taken seriously, and 
we protect confdentiality to the fullest extent 
possible. If an investigation determines employee misconduct has occurred, prompt corrective 
action is taken, up to and including termination. 
Regular reporting of EthicsLine reports is 
provided to senior management as well as the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Fifth Third Named Among 
World’s Most Ethical Companies 
in 2022. Ethics Ofce Foundational 
Program Elements 
Senior Management/ 
Board Reporting &  
Escalation 
CONTINUED 85  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
Whistleblower Protections 
Fifth Third’s Non-Retaliation Policy  strictly 
prohibits intimidation of, or retaliation against, 
individuals who make good faith reports of 
known or suspected violations of the Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics , any Fifth Third 
policy or procedure, or any law or regulation. 
To ensure that Fifth Third’s practices are 
robust, the Bank conducts regular non-
retaliation assessments. 
Employee Code of Conduct 
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 
anchored by our Fifth Third Compass, and is a 
critical Board-approved guide for employees 
to implement our core values in our daily 
work: Work as One Bank, Take Accountability, 
Be Respectful and Inclusive, and Act with 
Integrity . It outlines our responsibility to do the 
right thing, serve with honesty and integrity, 
and act in compliance with both the letter and 
the spirit of the law. 
Every employee and contractor is required to 
read, comply with, and annually acknowledge 
the Code. In 2021, over 99% of employees and 
contractors made this acknowledgment, a 
requirement that is regularly tested and verifed. 
A
dditionally, all employees and contractors 
are required to complete ethics training on an annual basis. In 2021, 99.9% of all required 
compliance training modules were completed 
by employees, including ethics training . 
Further, ethics training is incorporated into 
other employee training modules required o
f employees and contractors depending on 
specifc roles and positions within the Bank. 
Fifth Third’s Board of Directors also receives 
annual ethics training. 
Anti-Competitive Activities 
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
outlines Fifth Third’s position on anti -
competitive activities. Anti-trust laws, also 
referred to as “competition laws,” are rules 
developed by the U.S. government to protect 
consumers from predatory business practices. 
Their goal is to ensure that fair competition 
exists in the marketplace. 
We ensure that business activities that involve any 
of our competitors are conducted with great care 
to ensure compliance with all laws and regulations. 
We are responsible for adherence to the anti-
bribery and anti-corruption regulations of the 
countries in which we operate. This includes 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Canada’s 
Corruption of Foreign Public Ofcials Act, and 
the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other applicable 
laws and regulations. The regulations prohibit 
bribery of a foreign or domestic government 
ofcial for the purpose of infuencing that ofcial. 
These regulations apply to conduct both inside 
and outside of U.S. territory. These regulations also apply to third parties conducting business 
with Fifth Third such as suppliers and consultants. 
While Fifth Third has a low risk of anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption violations, Fifth Third has 
implemented standards to govern activities that 
pose a higher risk of violations, such as payments 
*Fifth Third Securities representatives licensed through the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority have registered representative agreements that require arbitration of claims. Contents 
to vendors outside of the United States as well as 
foreign travel. 
Prohibited activities include: 
• Any agreements between competitors relating to prices, allocations of territories or customers or limitations of products. 
• Use of competitors’ confdential or proprietary information. 
• Engaging in any other anti-competitive behavior , including disparaging or making 
false statements in relation to competitors, misappropriating competitors’ trade secrets, or encouraging competitors’ customers to break contracts. 
Discrimination and Harassment 
Discrimination, harassment or intimidation 
are not tolerated for any reason . This includes 
discrimination on the basis of an individual’s 
race, color, national origin or ancestry, 
citizenship status, creed, religion, sexual orientation, transgender status, marital status, civil partnership, pregnancy, parental status or caregiving responsibilities, genetic information, 
physical or intellectual disability or protected 
condition, military or veteran status, an individual 
having been a victim of domestic violence, sexual 
assault or abuse, or any other status protected 
under applicable laws. Fifth Third does not 
require employees to sign mandatory arbitration 
agreements as a condition of employment or 
continued employment.* Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Human Rights 
Striving to be the one bank that people 
most value and trust requires operating 
at the highest ethical standards and 
upholding the dignity of the individual 
through every interaction, including with 
our customers, employees, communities 
and shareholders . We support fundamental 
principles of human rights as set forth in the 
United Nations Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights . 
In 2022, Fifth Third signed on to the UN 
Global Compact, a voluntary initiative 
based on CEO commitments to implement 
universal sustainability principles for human 
rights, labor, environmental sustainability 
and anti-corruption. 
Our full human rights statement can be 
found on ir.53.com/esg . 
Fifth Third supports the  
fundamental principles  
of human rights across all  
our business activities. 
86  
 
 
  
 
 2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
Public Policy and 
Government Relations 
Fifth Third is subject to government regulation and risks 
generated by new, complex and evolving legislative and 
regulatory requirements that impact nearly every aspect 
of our operations. 
As a result, customers, employees and 
shareholders have a measurable stake 
in the outcome of certain public policy 
discussions. To mitigate this risk and work 
toward favorable outcomes, we participate in 
the public policy process. Our government  
afairs program is designed to give us a 
coordinated voice in public policy through  
a partnership between the Government  
Afairs team and Company leaders . F ifth Third’s advocacy eforts are executed at 
the local, state and federal level by registered 
lobbyists. Disclosure of federal lobbying 
activity occurs via the U.S. Congress, and 
disclosure of non-federal lobbying activity 
is provided to appropriate local and state 
agencies as required by law. 
Fifth Third’s Political Action Committee 
supports candidates at the federal, state 
and local level . 
To mitigate legislative and  
regulatory risks and work toward 
favorable outcomes, we participate 
in the public policy process through 
our government afairs program. Contents 
Funds in the PAC consist of voluntary personal 
contributions from eligible ofcers of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. No Company 
funds are contributed to the PAC. Disclosure of federal PAC activity can be viewed at 
fec.gov  and our website. Disclosure of PAC 
activity at the local and state levels is provided 
to state election authorities in compliance with 
applicable law and on our website. 
Fifth Third’s political contributions are 
governed by the Government Afairs Policy . 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee of the Board reviews political 
contributions semi-annually and approves 
the policy annually. Fifth Third also maintains 
a Political Activity Policy that ensures the 
compliance of the Bank and its employees with 
laws and regulations governing 
political contributions. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
“As Fifth Third 
continues to 
grow and serve 
customers 
nationwide, we 
engage public ofcials 
across all levels of 
government on public 
policy issues afecting 
the Company, its 
customers, employees 
and shareholders. We 
promote sound public 
policy to ensure a 
regulatory and political 
climate that fosters economic growth, competition, prosperity 
and innovation on behalf 
of our stakeholders.” 
-SUSAN ZAUNBRECHER, EXECUTIVE VICE 
PRESIDENT, CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER 
87   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
Enterprise Risk Management 
work, to the way we behave with customers, 
each other and our communities . The Compass 
also guides our strategic direction and actions 
as we keep the customer at the center and work 
toward achieving our vision to be the one bank 
people most value and trust. 
By focusing on the future and uniting us as one 
bank, the Compass represents who we are, what we believe and how we defne success—all of which are key drivers of our risk management strategy. 
Fifth Third’s Enterprise and line of business 
risk management frameworks outline our 
approach to managing risk in support of our 
vision. Key elements of the frameworks are 
described in detail below. 
Risk Appetite 
Fifth Third’s risk appetite is established 
in alignment with our strategic, fnancial 
and capital plans . The Board and executive 
management approve the risk appetite, which 
is considered in the development of business 
strategies and forms the basis for enterprise 
risk management. The risk appetite is defned 
using quantitative metrics and qualitative 
measures to ensure prudent risk taking and 
drive balanced decision making. Our goal is 
to ensure that aggregate risks do not exceed 
Fifth Third’s risk appetite , and that risks taken 
are supportive of our portfolio diversifcation and proftability objectives. Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Fifth Third Bank has been in 
business since 1858 and has 
been successful over this 
span of years by efectively 
balancing risk and return. 
We take risks every day delivering products 
and services to customers and executing our 
business processes and activities. Therefore, 
we are responsible for managing these risks 
efectively to deliver value and performance 
for our shareholders, customers, employees 
and communities through the cycle . 
Alignment with Our Core Values 
and Culture 
Our core values and culture provide a 
foundation for supporting sound risk 
management practices by setting expectations 
for appropriate conduct and accountability 
across the organization. 
Our approach to sound risk management is 
grounded on each employee living our core 
values and acting in an ethical and responsible 
manner as we serve the fnancial needs of our 
customers and communities. 
Our culture is embodied in the Fifth Third 
Compass, which informs our actions and 
decisions, from how we navigate our daily RISK 
APPETITE STRATEGIC 
PLAN 
FINANCIAL 
PLAN 
CAPITAL 
PLAN 
Risk Appetite Core Principles 
The core principles that defne our risk appetite and ensure we are operating in a safe and sound manner are : 
• We act with integrity  in all activities. 
• We understand the risks we take, and ensure that they are in alignment with our business strategies and our risk appetite. 
• We avoid risks that cannot be understood, managed or monitored. 
• We provide transparency of risk to our management and Board  and escalate risks 
and issues as necessary. 
• We ensure Fifth Third’s products and services are aligned to our core customer base  and are designed, delivered and 
maintained to provide value and beneft to our customers and to Fifth Third. 
• We do not ofer products or services that are not appropriate  or suitable for our customers. • We are focused on providing operational excellence  by providing reliable, accurate, 
and efcient services to meet our customers’ needs. 
• We maintain a strong fnancial position  to 
ensure that we meet our strategic objectives through all economic cycles and are able to access the capital markets at all times, even under stressed conditions. 
• We protect the Bank’s reputation by thoroughly understanding the consequences of business strategies, products and processes. 
• We conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations  and in alignment with internal 
policies and procedures. 
CONTINUED 88  
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
8 
RISK 
TYPES POLICIES 
BOARDOVERSIGHT 
IDENTIFY 
RISK 
ASSESS 
RISK 
MANAGE 
RISK MONITOR 
RISK REPORT 
RISK 
COMMITTEESLIMITS 
Risk Management Process 
Our risk management process ensures a 
consistent and comprehensive approach to how we identify, measure and assess, manage, monitor, and report risks. We also have established processes and programs to manage and report concentration risks; to ensure robust talent, compensation, and performance management; and to aggregate risks across the enterprise. 
Fifth Third’s eight risk types: 
• Credit Risk 
• Liquidity Risk 
• Interest Rate Risk 
• Price Risk 
• Operational Risk 
• Reputation Risk 
• Strategic Risk 
• Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risk Risk Governance 
Fifth Third’s risk governance structure ensures 
proper oversight of risk across the organization. It 
provides a path for escalation of risks and issues 
to management and Board-level committees 
to drive efective risk decisioning . The Board 
is responsible for actively overseeing risk-taking 
activities and holding management accountable for adhering to the risk management framework. The 
Board delegates certain responsibilities to Board 
Committees, including the Risk and Compliance 
Committee  (RCC) and the Audit Committee . 
The RCC is the primary committee that oversees 
risk and assists the Board in its oversight of 
the Bancorp’s Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework and approves the framework 
(inclusive of risk appetite) and primary risk 
management policies . 
The Audit Committee of the Board is the primary 
committee that has responsibility, fduciary 
duty and authority to oversee the management, 
fnancial statements and audit functions . Contents 
The Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
(ERMC) is chaired by the Chief Risk Ofcer. It is 
comprised of voting members from executive 
management and reports to the RCC. The 
committee is responsible for reviewing and 
approving frameworks and policies to ensure 
efective risk management, overseeing the 
management of all risk types to ensure that risks remain within Fifth Third’s risk appetite and 
fostering a risk culture that supports our risk 
management objectives. 
The ERMC oversees key management 
committees responsible for specifc risk types 
and key risk related policies and processes, in 
order to support an aggregate view of risk 
and provide executive level risk management 
oversight of all risk types. 
Fifth Third’s risk governance structure ensures 
proper oversight of risk across the organization. 
It provides a path for escalation of risks 
and issues to management and Board-level 
committees to drive efective risk decisioning. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Three Lines of Defense 
Accountability for managing risk is driven  
through a Three Lines of Defense structure: 
FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE  
is comprised of front line 
units that create risk or are 
accountable for risk. 
SECOND LINE OF DEFENSE , 
or independent risk 
management, consists of risk management, compliance, 
and credit risk review. 
THIRD LINE OF DEFENSE  
is internal audit, which 
provides oversight of the frst 
and second lines of defense. 
Fifth Third’s Risk and Compliance Committee Structure 
BOARD RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE 
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE TRUST & FIDUCIARY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE RETAIL NONDEPOSIT INVESTMENT PRODUCT  
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE 
ASSET/LIABILITY   
COMMITTEE CAPITAL  
COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT  
COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OPERATIONAL   
RISK COMMITTEECLIMATE RISK COUNCIL CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY &  
REPUTATION COMMITTEE LOAN LOSS RESERVE  
COMMITTEE CORPORATE   
CREDIT COMMITTEE 
89  
 
 
 
  ZERO TRUS T NETWORK 
CONNECTIVITY 
Expanded the use of Zero Trust 
network connectivity solution 
across the Bank and delivered 
additional automated cloud 
controls.  
 DETECT AND RE SPOND 
HUNT CAP ABILITIES 
Expanded Detect  and Respond 
hunt capabilities to utilize a wealth 
of metadata gathered by the teams’ 
solutions and strengthened 
processes between Information 
Security and the Financial Crimes 
team to protect our customers from 
a rise in credential validation 
attacks (CV A). 
 ATTACK SURFACE  
MANAGE MENT PROGRAM 
Expanded the scope of the Attack 
Surface Management program while 
maintaining KRIs within ac cept able 
thresholds.  
 RED UCED CREDENTIAL 
VALIDATION  ATTACK (CVA)  
ATTEMPTS 
Implemented new controls, 
successfully blocking over 10 million 
CVA attempts a day and reduced 
attack detection and response times 
with the addition of a second detect 
and respond shift to augment our 
24x7 partners . 2021 ESG Report Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
GOVERNANCE 
Customer 
Privacy and 
Information 
Security 
Privacy continues to be a high 
priority for customers. Fifth 
Third understands this because 
we understand the value of 
the data we collect. We are 
determined to protect this 
data in order to maintain our 
customers’ confdence and 
their fnancial futures.   
This requires a partnership among the various 
teams at Fifth Third. Information Security, Data 
Privacy and Fraud Management are some key 
players in the protection of data. More important 
are the approximate 26,000 employees and 
contractors who work diligently to protect 
data every day through their use of special 
tools when sharing data, restriction of access 
to data, and identifcation and reporting of 
potential phishing attacks targeted at stealing 
data. Protecting customer data is a team efort 
focused on mitigating the many evolving threats 
within the cyber landscape. Noting Strategic Successes 
Progress was made within the organization’s strategic pillars in 2021, including: 
CONTINUED INFORMATION PROTECTION 
Enhanced information protection  
capabilities through Bank -wide  
collaboration controls, new unstructured data protection solution and physical record migration. Through the implementation of a new solution and sensitive data patterns, the team is able to identify and automatically quarantine fles containing sensitive data while maintaining compliance withretention requirements.  
REVAMPED PROGRAM 
Revamped our Privileged Access 
Management program to include an upgraded password vault integrated into our primary active directory domain to secure our highest risk access. The team ’s attention to lean 
process improvements enabled several automation capabilities allowing our identity engineers to shift focus on future strategic eforts. 
90  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
Privacy and Data Security 
The Bank’s privacy and data security 
controls have been built to meet regulatory requirements, industry best practices and customer expectations . These controls, whether 
technical solutions or processes, are assessed regularly by industry and governmental experts to ensure they meet the challenge of protecting the privacy of customers and their data. The cyber and regulatory landscape is constantly evolving, as do our dynamic defenses. We have implemented measures designed to secure customer information from loss or unauthorized access, use, alteration, or disclosure. Information is stored on secured servers behind frewalls, and all data transported on our website and mobile applications is encrypted. To further help protect information, the Bank requires employees to 
PRIVACY 
COMMITMENT DATA SECURITY 
COMMITMENT 
Fifth Third’s commitment to 
data security and privacy are available on 53.com . review and know information security and 
privacy policies, as well as complete all assigned security and privacy training. 
Our privacy policy defnes our practices on 
protecting personal information, from the information we collect, how it is shared, to how customers can choose to limit the sharing of data based on state, federal and international regulations . 
A signifcant factor in the success of the Information Security Program relies on the third parties with whom we have chosen to partner. These partners assist in our data loss prevention, DDoS protections, document lifecycle management, cyberattack response services, threat intelligence, endpoint security, secure development and more. 
As the threat landscape evolves so does third-
party risk. Providing appropriate oversight to the Bank’s third parties to reduce risk is critical. Onboarding new suppliers requires a vendor due diligence efort to ensure that new vendors meet the Bank’s control requirements. 
In 2021, Information Security improved its 
ability to quickly identify risk associated with a compromised third party and to respond accordingly before it’s too late. Our Extended Security Program team supports Third Party Management and Third-Party Risk Management in an advisory capacity, assisting in the development of due diligence surveys, handling of escalated due diligence reviews, and reviews of cyber-related incidents and threat management. Contents 
The Bank’s Master Services Agreement articles outline the expectations,  
including, but not limited to: 
•  What the supplier’s information security 
program should include. 
•  Who needs to review and approve their information security program. 
•  What safeguards need to be in place. 
•  How the Bank should be notifed of a breach. 
•  How proprietary information should be handled. 
We work with our third-party suppliers to ensure they have appropriate information security programs and capabilities in place to protect any data we entrust to them. Ensuring our third-party suppliers are doing all they can to protect the Bank and our customers is another way we keep the customer at the center of everything we do . 
Information sharing with other signifcant players in the industry is also a key enabler of what we do. We closely partner with law enforcement agencies, cyber security industry leaders, direct peer relationships in other fnancial institutions and global cyber intelligence sharing communities, such as FS-ISAC. We have been a member of FS-ISAC since 2010 with some of our team members having held Board positions. We have representation on many Communities of Interest and have previously won the FS-ISAC Excellence in Sharing Award. Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
The Value of Strong Leadership 
and Governance 
• Information security and privacy teams 
regularly report to executive leadership and the Board to ensure everyone is aligned to the Bank’s priorities and focus. 
• The Chief Information Security Ofcer and Privacy Ofce report regularly to the Board or Board committees to keep abreast of all eforts to prevent, detect and respond to risks. 
• The Technology Committee , a committee of 
the Board established in 2020, is comprised of Board members with extensive technology backgrounds. Its primary purpose is to assist the Board in its oversight of technology and innovation strategies, plans and operations, information, cybersecurity and data privacy risk management, as well as third-party technology risk management. 
CONTINUED 91  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
Our First Line of Defense 
Our employees and contractors are a key 
component in our frst line of defense. Keeping 
them informed and educated helps them to 
make the right decisions when it comes to 
protecting the information they work with 
every day. To do this, we have a mature 
security awareness and education program. All 
employees and contractors are required to complete privacy and information security 
training on an annual basis, including privacy 
compliance, information lifecycle governance, 
managing information and data, creating a safe 
cyber environment and business continuity. In 
2021, 99.9% of all required compliance training 
modules were completed by employees. All information owners are made aware of the 
expectation to protect data through appropriate 
retention and defensible deletions once it 
has reached the end of its lifecycle based on 
the Corporate Records Retention Schedule. 
Application owners and managers are required 
to provide access to data through least privilege 
and certify that access on an annual basis. 
To support the Bank’s objective of protecting data, 
the Information Security team has established 
and maintains a qualifed and representative 
workforce, ensuring that the right people with 
the right skills are in place to achieve our business 
goals. To that end, the organization invests heavily 
in ongoing training and certifcations for its team 
members. This includes technical boot camps 
as well as online and classroom training and 
conferences. The inventory of training is extensive, 
aligns with certifcation opportunities and is 
provided via various mediums. Over 52% of the 
Information Security organization holds advanced 
certifcations. 
Business Continuity Management 
Business Continuity Management (BCM) 
operates as an enterprise-wide program 
and encompasses an integrated approach 
in providing for the safety and wellbeing of 
the employees, customers, shareholders, and 
resiliency of operations . The BCM program is 
guided by a Board of Director-approved policy 
and BCM Program Framework which provides a holistic approach for identifying threats, assessing risks and impacts, and responding 
commensurate with safeguarding the interests Contents 
of Fifth Third’s stakeholders, reputation, brand 
and value creating activities. The program’s 
objective is to enable Fifth Third to efectively 
prepare for and respond to threats such as natural disasters, data breaches, cyberattacks, 
and/or technical outages.  In support of this 
objective the BCM team continues to capitalize on its enterprise risk management solution 
which was implemented in 2019. The fexible 
and integrated platform capabilities enable the 
Bank to achieve resilience with greater speed 
and efciency. Noted improvements in 2021 
included notifcations now triggered by BC 
plan managers, notifcation recaps submitted 
for approval, enhanced annual BC Plan owner 
review and approval process, as well as disaster recovery exercise recaps with associated 
approval process workfows. 
To assess the Bancorp’s cyber response posture, 
BCM facilitated a Cyber War Game exercise 
in the frst quarter of 2021. The game, which 
was conducted virtually, involved many areas Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
of the Bancorp including executive leadership 
and Board members. While opportunities 
for improvement were captured, none were 
considered signifcant in nature. In the second 
quarter of 2021, BCM facilitated the largest 
integrated Disaster Recovery exercise to date 
with 739 applications and 383 third party service providers being included in the scope. 
Additionally, in 2021, BCM coordinated responses 
to hurricanes Elsa, Henri and Ida with regional 
presidents and retail executives. Ultimately, there 
was minimal impact to our customers along with 
no Fifth Third employees, facilities or business processes being directly afected. BCM and 
Global Solutions continue to monitor and oversee 
response to COVID mandates and subsequent 
impacts on ofshore third-party service providers 
and their resources. 
Additionally, our awareness and  
education program includes: 
•  Other information security training modules
. 
•  Targeted security awareness training for 
high-risk audiences. 
•  Quarterly lunch and learns.  
•  Monthly simulated phishing exercises. 
•  Weekly security awareness communications. 
•  Data Loss Prevention Consequence Program should a user fail to appropriately  
protect data. 
•  A variety of activities, including a conference, during October’s  
Cybersecurity Awareness Month. BUSINESS 
CONTINUITY 
MANAGEMENT 
PROGRAM GOVERNANCE REGULATIONS&COMPLIANCE COLLABORATION BUSINESSREQUIREMENTS 
1. 
CULTIVATE A BCM 
CULTURE WITHIN 
5/3 2. 
UNDERSTAND 
THE BUSINESS 
3. 
CREATE BCM 
STRATEGIES 
4. 
CREATE BCM 
PLANS & 
SOLUTIONS5. 
DESIGN & 
IMPLEMENTATION 6. 
CONDUCT BCP & 
DR EXERCISE 
MAINTENANCE 7. 
CONDUCT SELF 
ASSESSMENT & 
ANALYSIS 8. 
MAINTAIN & 
AUDIT 
Business Continuity Management  
Lifecycle  
The BCM Program functions within an  
integrated 8 -step lifecycle. The following  
steps outline the approach that is taken  
to defne, implement, mature, and  
evaluate the BCM program. 
92  
  
   
   
 
2021 ESG Report 
GOVERNANCE 
Third-Party Management 
Fifth Third has a robust third-
party management program 
for the acquisition of goods 
and services. It is expected 
that Fifth Third suppliers 
demonstrate the same level 
of commitment to ethical 
business practices. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct  sets forth Fifth 
Third’s expectations for ethical, human rights, 
labor and environmental standards throughout 
our supplier network. 
Third-Party Risk Management Third-party management’s goal is to meet 
the strategic objectives of the Bank and 
maintain our commitment to providing equal 
opportunities to all capable suppliers. To 
achieve this goal, we seek strategic partnerships 
with highly qualifed sources who provide 
solutions that improve our processes, increase 
the quality of our products and services and 
drive efciencies. 
We execute our third-party selection process 
in accordance with the highest standards 
of integrity, fairness and objectivity. Our 
Supplier Diversity team reviews every 
procurement opportunity to ensure diverse providers are included in the portfolio of potential third parties (for additional details 
on our Supplier Diversity eforts, refer to pages 58-59 ). Thorough assessment and due 
diligence is performed on all third-parties 
prior to onboarding, with focused attention on protection and security of Bank and customer 
data. The Bank focuses on fostering a strong risk 
and compliance culture, meaning all employees are responsible and accountable for managing 
risks associated with third-party relationships. 
In 2022, Fifth Third began partnering 
with EcoVadis, a leading evidence-based 
sustainability ratings provider, to engage 
with and monitor the ESG strategies and 
performance of our largest third-party relationships.  For additional details, refer to 
page 43 . 
DUE INITIATION & 2 DILIGENCE 3 CONTRACT SELECTION REVIEW Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
The methodology and process 
for third-party risk management is as follows: 
•  Governance of our third-party 
activities begins with the Third Party Management Council, which assesses the portfolio of third-party service providers as well as the management of risks, issues and performance on thethird-party population and oversees adherence to the Third Party Risk Management Policy and Program. 
 
•  The Third Party Management Council reports to the Operational Risk Committee, which in turn is accountable to the Enterprise Risk Management Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee. 
5 ONGOING 6 TERMINATION ONBOARDING MONITORING (IF NEEDED) 1 4 
93  
  
 
     
 
                   - -
- - --
-
———
——
—2021 ESG Report 
Appendix 
INVESTOR INFORMATION • 2021 Annual Report (Form 10 K) 
• 2022 Proxy Statement 
• Sustainable Bond Framework 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION 
• Fifth Third Momentum® Banking 
• Preferred Banking 
• Fifth Third Express® Banking 
• Business Banking 
• Commercial Banking 
• Wealth Management 
2021 ESG INFORMATION • 2021 GRI Index 
• 2021 SASB Index 
• 2021 Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics Index 
• 2021 TCFD Report 
• 2021 CDP Response 
• 2021 GHG Verifcation Statement 
• 2021 Environmental KPI Assurance Statement 
• 2021 Environmental Data Table 
• 2021 EEO-1 Table ADDITIONAL ESG INFORMATION 
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
• Corporate Governance Guidelines 
• Environmental & Social Policy 
• Government Afairs Policy 
• Human Rights Statement 
• Inclusion & Diversity at Fifth Third 
• Non Retaliation Policy 
• Privacy and Security 
• Supplier Code of Conduct 
• Environmental and Social Finance Framework 
• Board committee charters: 
Audit Committee Charter 
Finance Committee Charter Human Capital and Compensation 
Committee 
Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee Charter 
Risk and Compliance Committee Charter 
Technology Committee Charter Contents Introduction Economic Environment Social Governance 
Contact Fifth Third 
INVESTOR RELATIONS 
ir@53.com 
ESG INFORMATION 
ESG site 
MEDIA RELATIONS 
513 534 NEWS or Media Center 
CUSTOMER SERVICE 
1 866 671 5353 
53.com 
94 