2015 Sustainability ReportFormula forOurQ: How has FMC made progress integrating 
sustainability into its businesses?
A: Sustainability is a critical part of the strategic 
plans in each of our businesses. But it doesn’t 
end there. It is also a key element of our R&D planning and technology platforms to ensure new products create shareholder value and 
support a more sustainable world. Capital spending projects are carefully reviewed to 
determine their effect on FMC’s sustainability 
goals and stakeholders. We have made 
significant progress by constantly challenging ourselves. Additionally, I’m proud to announce 
we’ve set five and 10-year goals for innovation, 
operations and business practices that reflect our deep commitment to sustainability.
Q: What does the Sustainability Report theme,  
“Our Formula for Progress,” mean to you?
A: For well over a century, FMC has thrived 
by adapting, changing, and advancing its business practices. “Our Formula for Progress” 
underscores a company that is on the 
move. In 2015, we sold our Alkali Chemicals business and acquired Cheminova, a global 
supplier of crop protection products. We 
have strengthened our technology and 
innovation roots while positioning FMC for 
future success. The 2015 Sustainability Report 
is our fifth report and symbolizes a significant 
milestone in the history of sustainability at FMC.
Q: How has the integration of Cheminova 
influenced FMC’s sustainability programs? 
A: We’ve learned a great deal from Cheminova, 
which shares our values and commitment 
to sustainability. It began reporting on its 
successes and challenges in sustainability in 
2006, five years before FMC’s initial reporting.  Cheminova reported to CDP (formerly 
the Carbon Disclosure Project) and was a 
United Nations Global Compact signatory 
several years ago. FMC is reporting to both organizations in 2016. Cheminova’s commitment 
to diversity and supporting women is evident 
in its diversity policy and programs that help 
women thrive within local communities. FMC 
formalized our approach in 2015 by appointing 
a Diversity Officer and supporting employee affinity groups such as the Women’s Initiative 
Network. We are reinforcing our commitment 
to a workplace where employees’ unique 
perspectives are valued.
Q: How are your employees engaged  
in sustainability?  
A: Our progress in sustainability is a direct result 
of FMC employees’ engagement. The new five 
and 10-year goals are a major step forward, 
made possible through the commitment of 
our people around the world. In R&D, our scientists are developing innovative, sustainable 
products and technologies that create value 
for customers and consumers. FMC engineers 
in manufacturing are safely increasing 
efficiencies in our operations to reduce energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste 
generation and water use. Our employees 
around the world are engaged in safety, health and education initiatives to strengthen the 
communities where they work and live. 
Q: How does sustainability shape FMC’s business 
strategy moving forward?
A: FMC formalized its commitment to sustainability 
in 2011. Since then, it has become an integral 
part of our business and operations strategy as 
we strive to impact five major global challenges: 
climate change, environmental consciousness, 
food and health expectations, land competition 
and scarce resources. Our Formula for Progress, and our new long-term sustainability goals, hold 
us accountable to address these challenges. 
They ensure that by 2025, FMC will have 
decreased its environmental footprint while 
continuing to innovate and develop valuable products that benefit society. We will achieve 
this vision safely and ethically while maintaining 
valuable relationships with our communities.
Pierre BrondeauPresident, CEO and Chairman of the Board1
Q+A WITH
OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERFor more information about FMC sustainability, please contact Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, at sustainability.info@fmc.com. 
Assurance Statement  ...................................................... 34
Ex
ecutive Officers
 
............................................................. 35The 2015 FMC Corporation Sustainability 
Report is “In Accordance” with the GRI G4 Guidelines – Core option.
Our People  ........................................... 10
Our Pr
oducts
 
........................................ 18
Our Responsibility
 
................................ 26• About T his Report  ................................ 1
•
 W
elcome Guide
 .................................... 2
•
 Or
ganizational Profile
 ......................... 3
•
 V
ision 2015 Results
 .............................. 4
•
 20
15 Progress Report
 ......................... 4
•
 20
16 Commitments
 ............................. 5
•
 Major Global Challenges
 
.................... 6
•
 Unit
ed Nations Global Compact
 
.....7
•
 S
takeholder Engagement
 .................. 8
•
 Ma
teriality Assessment
 
...................... 8
•
 Our F
ormula for Progress
 ................. 9
•
 Int
ense Focus on Safety
 ................... 11
•
 Saf
ety as Our Business Value ......... 12
•
 Saf
ety in Our Supply Chain
 
............ 14
•
 A T
alented Foundation  
for Growth
 
............................................ 15
• Inno vation to  
Meet Global Challenges
 
................... 19
•
 A
gricultural Solutions
 ....................... 19
•
 Health and Nutrition .........................20
•
 Lithium
 
................................................... 21
•
 Pr
oduct Stewardship
 ........................ 22
•
 Rigor
ous Supply  
Chain Management
 ........................... 23OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The report complements 
more detailed information on the sustainability website at  
www.fmcsustainability.com,  
which includes the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index. Together, this report and the web-based content fulfill the requirements of GRI’s G4 Guidelines.
WEBSITE FEATURES
You can find more data 
and stories about our sustainability history and how we are advancing Our Formula for Progress on our website. The Online Data Center allows you to interact with our data to better understand FMC’s impacts, and you can Explore Our Resources to read previous reports, view videos and search corporate materials.
WEB LINK ICONS 
Links to additional 
information can be found throughout this report. When 
you see one of these “web link” icons with a number inside, simply visit  www.fmcsustainability.com and enter the number or click on the link from the PDF version of our report.  
##
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   1 • T aking Action for  
Global + Local Benefit
 
...................... 27
•
 Oper
ational Excellence  
for Efficiency + Sustainability
 
.......28
•
 Sour
cing Strategies  
to Reduce Impact
 ............................... 31
•
 Ar
gentina's Pipeline  
to Dependable Energy
 .................... 32
ABOUT
THIS REPORTOUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH + STRATEGY 
FMC’s strategy over the next 10 years is to grow 
by providing products with sustained value that motivate customers, employees and other stakeholders to work with FMC. Our strategic position depends on sustainable investments that ensure our company runs more efficiently and more resiliently by 2025. In doing so, we will proactively address market, climate and regulatory-based changes and risks.
The theme of this year's report, “Our Formula 
for Progress,” reflects the science-based history and tradition of FMC and emphasizes that we are a company positioned for the future. In 2015, we sold our Alkali chemicals business and acquired Cheminova, a global supplier of quality crop protection products. With these and other portfolio changes, we now have a greater focus on agricultural, health, nutrition and lithium technologies. Cheminova shares our values and our commitment to sustainability. Today’s FMC has the right formula to drive sustainability well into the future. The 2015 Sustainability Report is a significant milestone in the history of FMC. This is our fifth report but represents many “firsts” including: 
•
 Announc
ement of FMC’s first Operations 
efficiency goals, set for 2025 
•
 Announc
ement of new Innovation and 
Business Practices goals, set for 2020
•
 Firs
t Communication on Progress with respect 
to the United Nations Global Compact 
•
 Firs
t report with assurance of key 
environmental data
•
 Firs
t report responding to Global Reporting 
Initiative’s new G4 framework 
•
 Firs
t sustainability report including  
former Cheminova*
*Consistent with FMC’s policy on acquisitions, data associated with  
 Chemino va will be included in the first full year after acquisition.
WELCOME GUIDE
OUR REPORT STRUCTURE This year’s report is comprised of three key pillars:
Together, these three pillars create Our Formula for Progress at FMC.Our People (Page 10):  
First and foremost, we have safe, ethical and engaged 
employees who build trusting relationships with customers, suppliers, investors and communities. Our people are the key element in making our sustainability formula work throughout the value chain.
Our Products (Page 18):  
Our people create products that meet the needs of our customers and the changing world. We work toward a resilient supply chain that ensures sustainably sourced products.
Our Responsibility (Page 26):  
Our people manufacture products in ways that reduce our environmental footprint and reduce cost. We are responsible neighbors and community members. 
2  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
Asia Pacific
$760 | 23%Income Statement Data
Revenues $3,277
Cost of Sales + Services $ 2,201
Research + Development $   144
Adjusted After-Tax Earnings $   333
Payments to Providers of CapitalInterest $     75
Dividends $     86$   161
CAPITAL ADDITIONS $    1192015 ECONOMIC HIGHLIGHTS (IN MILLIONS)REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION
 (IN MILLIONS) = $3,277
Europe, 
Middle East
+ Africa
$624 | 19%FMC Corporation is a specialty company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets 
globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products.
*FMC Minerals during first quarter of 2015 was comprised of two businesses: Alkali Chemicals and Lithium. The sale of the Alkali Chemicals business 
was completed on April 1, 2015 and subsequently, FMC Minerals became FMC Lithium.$786 million
2015 Revenue24%
FMC Total$2,253 million
2015 Revenue69%FMC Total
$238 million
2015 Revenue7%FMC TotalInsecticides, herbicides, 
fungicides, biologicalsFMC AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
FMC HEALTH  AND NUTRITION
Microcrystalline cellulose, 
carrageenan, alginates, natural colorants, omega-3 concentrates
FMC LITHIUM*
Lithium hydroxide, 
butyllithium
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   3 
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
 For more information, visit www.fmc.com.
In order for FMC to continue to create positive global change, we need you to play an essential part in Our Formula for Progress. Together, we can shape a sustainable future by employing our workforce’s steadfast focus and utmost dedication, and by engaging our families, friends, and communities on matters of sustainability.Stories about how our employees and stakeholders are working to create a more sustainable future are featured on our Sustainability + You blog at www.fmcsustainability.com. We also welcome you to share your story about how sustainability has become a part of your work and daily life. Please be in touch with us at:sustainability.info@fmc.com.
Latin America
$982 | 30%
North America
$911 | 28%
SUSTAINABILITY + YOU
PART OF OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
2GOAL: Increase our Global 
Community Engagement 
Index to > 90
In 2014, our Community Engagement 
Index reached 96 due to the hard work of our employees. In 2015, some activities were reduced to control costs.GOAL: 50% of R&D 
spend focused on 
new solutions 
that positively impact the global 
challenges. Success on this goal indicates that FMC is developing products that ensure more sustainable options for our customers.
*TRIR is a common metric for reporting safety performance in manufacturing.
4  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESSIn 2012, we established our first set of long-term sustainability goals in safety, R&D and community 
engagement. As we reflect on those goals, we have achieved significant progress while learning how FMC can directly contribute to a more sustainable future. Our people are safer, our research pipeline is generating products that address the global challenges, and we are engaged with our communities. 
VISION 20 1 5 RESULTS
20 1 5 PROGRESS REPORT
ON 2014-2015 ONE-YEAR COMMITMENTS
Integrate FMC and Cheminova sustainability programsFMC and Cheminova sustainability programs have  
been fully integrated*
Train representatives from each Cheminova 
manufacturing site on FMC sustainability  
reporting processesWebinars were held so all Cheminova representatives could participate and ask questions  
Establish 2020 sustainability metrics and goals for innovation, business practices and operations2020 metrics and goals for Innovation and Business Practices and 2025 metrics and goals for Operations are announced in this report
Conduct Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) on five additional products; update the previously conducted LCAsLCAs were conducted on two Agricultural Solutions products and on one Lithium product; previously conducted LCAs were updated
Continue to integrate sustainability into FMC by joining Field to Market, a partnership for increasing sustainable agricultureFMC joined Field to Market in the spring of 2015;  participating in several subgroups
Benchmark leading sustainability practices within and outside the chemical industryWorkshop held with six companies to identify  
best practices 
Conduct an assurance readiness assessment of our 2014 Sustainability Report to prepare for external assurance of the 2015 ReportThe pre-assurance assessment was completed on time and all gaps were fully addressed, positioning us well for external assurance of this report
Complete the Manufacturing Excellence (ME) program at Uberaba, Brazil, (FMC Agricultural Solutions facility)Due to other initiatives related to integration of legacy Cheminova and business conditions in the region, this year was not a suitable time for ME at Uberaba. We did complete ME at our Ålesund, Norway, Health and Nutrition site
Update the Water Risk Assessment conducted in 2013 and include Cheminova sitesUpdated the Water Risk Assessment including  
legacy Cheminova sites. This defined FMC’s water reduction goal 
Conduct an energy assessment at Cork, Ireland, (FMC Health and Nutrition facility)Conducted energy assessments at two manufacturing facilities – Cork, Ireland, and MdA, Argentina. Action items being implemented to reduce energy intensity
Completed2015 COMMITMENTS RESULTS
3
Partial Not Complete
GOAL: Reduce our Total 
Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR)* to < 0.37
when compared to 2011. In 2015, our 
injury rate remained flat compared to 2014 despite major changes of acquiring Cheminova. Organizational changes can distract employees which can lead to more injuries. 
TRIR of 0.51 67% of R&D spend Index of 872015 RESULT: 2015 RESULT: 2015 RESULT:
*Consistent with FMC’s policy on acquisitions, data associated with Cheminova will be included in the first full year  
 aft er acquisition.201 6 COMMITMENTS
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   5 
Publish the sustainability metrics + goals for 2020 
(Innovation + Business Practices) + 2025 (Operations)
Implement a social responsibility audit process for FMC suppliers
Improve sustainability in our operations through energy audits (2), waste assessments (2) and social responsibility assessments (5)
Implement best sustainability office practices with employees at FMC headquarters in Philadelphia
Complete Sustainability training for Agricultural Solutions and Lithium commercial teams; train all new commercial Health and Nutrition team members as part of their onboarding process4
Adhere to the GRI G4 guidelines in 2015 Sustainability Report
Report to the Carbon Disclosure Project
Have key environmental data in our 2015 Sustainability Report assured
Develop and implement a Human Rights Policy
Publish the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact
Publish a climate change statement
Reinvigorate the regional sustainability implementation teams
Investigate sustainability data systems and make recommendations for 2017
6  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
MAJOR GLOBAL CHALLENGES
The foundation of FMC’s sustainability strategy is our role in alleviating some of the 
world’s major global challenges. These challenges serve as a framework for a strategic 
and comprehensive approach to meet the needs of a rapidly changing world.
 
Because FMC and our products can make a positive contribution to 
mitigating these issues, they frame our direction and give greater 
meaning to our work.
FOOD + HEALTH EXPECTATIONS
Food and crop production must increase to meet the basic 
needs of a rapidly growing population and the desires of a socio-economically diverse population seeking a wider 
array of nutritional options.
The need for food will continue to grow over the next 35 years as the 
population increases by more than 25 percent, to nearly 9 billion people. 
FMC’s products protect crops from infestation, which helps increase yields 
of food and other farmed goods while ensuring efficient use of land. 
FMC technology improves the availability of nutrition and protein and satisfies 
consumer preferences for natural ingredients with Health and Nutrition products.
LAND COMPETITION
Urbanization to accommodate the growing population and poor land management 
techniques are limiting the amount of arable areas available for agriculture, which intensifies the need to increase farmland productivity and crop yields. 
Our crop protection technologies help farmers increase the productivity of their land by gaining more value from every seed they plant. FMC’s products protect and fortify plants against weed, fungus and insect attacks, thereby maximizing their potential to grow and thrive through harvesting.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS
Growing interest in natural and benign materials is fueling the need for new, improved, 
bio-based products that reduce impact on the environment.
Over the last five years we increased the proportion of R&D spend focused on the development 
of products with a sustainability advantage to 67 percent of total spending. See page 18 for more information.
SCARCE RESOURCESTo cope with limited availability of fresh water, energy, forests and other essential resources, 
we must carefully manage them and more widely use alternatives to non-renewables.  
Our businesses have committed to 2025 goals for decreasing water and energy 
consumption. We have conducted water risk assessments to determine which facilities and local 
communities might be affected by reduced water availability so that we can take appropriate actions to sustain this resource for all users.
We hold our suppliers to high standards and expect them to adhere to sound resource management 
practices as part of our Supplier Code of Conduct. We require suppliers of some raw materials to obtain globally recognized certifications.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is considered a necessary step in mitigating 
climate-warming trends.
In this report, we announce 10-year corporate goals for decreasing our greenhouse gas 
emissions through investment in manufacturing, logistics and other operational efficiencies.As a leader in lithium technology, we help customers create batteries for electrically powered vehicles, 
more efficient tires, lighter weight aluminum for aircraft, and other low-carbon technologies. 
Read our full statement on climate change on the web.
5FMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact 
in 2015. We support efforts to make globalization more socially and ecologically compatible and to raise standards in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The following table shows the activities and management systems at FMC that support the 10 principles of the Global Compact.
WE SUPPORT6
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   7 
UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
UNGC TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC APPROACHINFO LOCATION
(PAGE # OR WEB)
HUMAN RIGHTSSupportCode of Ethics and Business Conduct, 
human rights in the supply chain training, Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier screening processPage 23
FMC.com 
> Corporate Governance
FMC.com 
> FMC Suppliers
Not complicit in human 
rights abusesCode of Ethics and Business ConductFMC.com 
> Corporate Governance
LABORCollective bargaining Code of Ethics and Business ConductFMC.com > Corporate Governance
Forced and compulsory 
laborSocial responsibility audits, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier screening, Human Dignity trainingPage 23
FMC.com 
> Corporate Governance
FMC.com 
> FMC Suppliers
Child LaborSocial responsibility audits, Code 
of Ethics and Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier screening, Human Dignity trainingFMC.com 
> Corporate Governance
FMC.com 
> FMC Suppliers
Discrimination Code of Ethics and Business ConductFMC.com > Corporate Governance
ENVIRONMENTPrecautionary approachClimate change statement, Risk  
assessments for agricultural  
products; review and consolidation 
of formulation toller networkPages 26-33
FMCSustainability.com/
climatechangestatement
Initiatives for environmental 
responsibilityResponsible Care, 2025 environmental goals; grower training and stewardshipPages 9, 22-23, 26
FMC.com 
> Responsible Care
Environmentally friendly  
technologies3RIVE 3D™ , biologicals, naturally  
derived Health and Nutrition 
products, seed treatment products, sustainability scoring in new product development process; waste goals in H&N, Lithium battery technology, Manufacturing Excellence; support for industry efforts on pesticide  
container recyclingPages 18-26
ANTI
CORRUPTIONWorking against corruption 
and briberyFCPA Compliance Standard Process; Training of FMC organization and our key third parties; FCPA audits; Code of Ethics and Business Conduct,  
Ethics refresherPage 23
FMC.com 
> Corporate Governance
FMC.com 
> FMC SuppliersAt FMC, we engage with stakeholders 
to accelerate our progress on social and environmental initiatives. We do this through open dialogue, collaboration and transparent disclosure. This engagement strengthens our ability to balance business interests with those of society; build robust, global relationships across sectors; and ultimately identify innovative solutions that create shared, sustainable value. The major issues we are addressing are complex – sustainable sourcing, climate change, and water stewardship – therefore collaboration is essential to achieve meaningful progress. When engaging stakeholders, we consider their expertise and insights as well as their capacity, level of influence and willingness to collaborate. This table illustrates the range of our engagement activities.
The materiality assessment is a process for identifying sustainability issues that have the greatest impact on our business and our stakeholders. This year, FMC improved our assessment by including external stakeholders’ input.
We quantitatively and qualitatively analyzed 
the list of potential material issues through the following process: 
•
 C
onducted a series of interviews and meetings 
with FMC employees who have a deep 
understanding of our business and its impacts.  The employees represented the following groups:   
Sustainability, Government Affairs, Internal Audit,  
Investor Relations, Communications, Finance,  
Legal and Environmental/Remediation.  
•
 C
onducted a formal survey asking internal 
and external FMC stakeholders to rank sustainability issues based on each issue’s importance to them and the impact on FMC’s business. There were 42 survey respondents representing NGOs, customers, suppliers, foundations, trade associations and employees.  The interviews, meetings and surveys helped shape our sustainability and responsibility priorities, strategies and reporting for maximum positive impact. In this year’s report we include an overview of our most material issues, explain why these particular issues matter to us and summarize how we are responding to them.  
The issues deemed most material to FMC are:
7
8  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
WHO DO WE WORK WITH?
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
WHAT IS IMPORTANT FOR FMC?
ISSUE
Health and Safety
Product StewardshipProduct Safety and Effects on Human Health Recruitment and Retention Product Environmental ImpactsResource Efficiency Global Standards and Codes of Conduct (REACH, etc.)Community Relations and Good Neighbor Policies Stakeholder Engagement 
Climate Change (including GHG emissions)
Global Food Supply
STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY
EmployeesSocial media Weekly
Meetings, Reports, Email blasts, Videos, Posters Quarterly
Surveys, Training Annually
Prospective EmployeesSocial media Weekly
Sustainability Report Annually
Customers Meetings, Innovation collaboration, Industry partnerships Quarterly
InvestorsConference calls Quarterly
Ratings/Rankings + Indices Annually
Local CommunitiesEmployee Volunteers Monthly
Donations to local organizations, community advisory panels Quarterly
Regulators + Public Policy MakersMeetings Monthly
Risk Assessments + Studies Regularly
Non-Government Organizations (NGO's)In-Person Meetings/Conference Calls Quarterly
Project Collaborations Bi-annually
Survey Responses Annually
Industry AssociationsParticipating on Committees + Working Groups Bi-monthly
Developing Best Practices on Key Issues As Needed+
 +
 =
WHAT DOES A 
FUTURE WORLD WITH FMC LOOK LIKE?
Since FMC 
formalized sustainability in 2011, we have focused on impacting five global challenges: climate change, environmental consciousness, food & health expectations, land competition and scarce resources. Our Formula for Progress holds us accountable for our role in those global challenges. It ensures that by 2025, FMC will have a decreased environmental footprint while delivering valuable products that benefit society. We will achieve this vision safely and ethically while creating shared value with our communities.In last year’s report, we framed an urgent call to action to continually innovate in ways that advance food production, improve human health and nutrition and respect the environment. To advance this call, we have established 2020 metrics and goals for innovation and business practices, as well as 2025 metrics and goals for operations. Together these form Our Formula for Progress.
OUR 
PEOPLEOUR 
PRODUCTSOUR 
RESPONSIBILITY
CONTINUED
PROGRESS
OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
11GOAL BY 2020...
Building on our 
momentum from our 2015 goal, we will dedicate 80 percent of our R&D budget to develop sustainably advantaged products by 2020. A sustainably advantaged product is one that positively impacts one of the Major Global Challenges.  This will ensure a pipeline of improved products far into the future.GOAL BY 2020...
We will achieve 100 
on our Community Engagement Index.      
Community
Engagement
IndexGOAL BY 2020...
Reduce our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) to <  0.30 
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   9 GOALS BY 2025...
Reduce our 
environmental impact by reducing energy, GHG and waste intensities by 15 percent and reducing water intensity in high-risk areas by 20 percent*.
10INTENSITY
• Ener gy
•
 GHG
•
 Wa
ste15 %
WATER USE
in high-risk
areas**20%10 0
.30
80%TRIR
R+D
toward 
sustainably 
advantaged 
products
 *C ompared to a 2013 baseline
**As determined by our Water  
  Risk As
sessment; see pages  
  31 + 32.9810  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
Our
PEOPLE
2020 GOAL
• Achieve a T otal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of .30 or lower
12Our people are the foundation of FMC and their safety comes first. FMC’s longstanding 
commitment to safety provides the basis for a work environment that encourages 
development, motivation and teamwork. Through their commitment, ideas and hard 
work, we will be able to deliver on the goals of Our Formula for Progress and drive 
sustainability in all aspects of our company.
10  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
INTENSE FOCUS ON SAFETY
To be a world class organization, our employees’ 
safety is a top priority. We foster safety in the workplace and instill a mindset that enables people to make sound decisions that protect themselves and others on the job, on the road and at home with family and friends.
TH!NK SAFE … Always
During FMC’s 2015 changes, we focused on 
helping people stay safe while transforming the company. We pinpointed key pressures that needed more attention, including “unsafe mindsets” of feeling distracted, stressed, rushed, fatigued and frustrated.  
To launch the emphasis on “unsafe mindsets,” 
three senior leaders, Andrea Utecht,  
executive vice president, general counsel  
and secretary; Barry Crawford, vice president, operations; and Mark Douglas, president, Agricultural Solutions, joined in a poster and video campaign that featured them as cartoon characters. These creative messages helped  
re-focus our safety consciousness and reinforced our concern for the mental and physical well-being of all employees. 
For the global TH!NK.SAFE. campaign, FMC 
received the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care
® 2015 Initiative of the 
Year award. The Initiative of the Year is chosen by attendees at the ACC Responsible Care Conference, an annual forum where more than 300 industry leaders learn from their peers about environmental, health, safety and security performance improvement programs. 15
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   11 
Several members of the FMC team present FMC’s safety platform 
at the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care 2015 Initiative of the Year Awards, including (L to R) Luanne McGovern, Nicole Miller, Alex Dagliesh (Braithwaite Communications), Rob Haire and Linda Froelich
ANDREA UTECHT
 BARRY CRAWFORD MARK DOUGLAS
14In 2015, our injury rate remained flat compared to 2014 despite major changes in acquiring Cheminova. Organizational changes typically distract employees which can lead to more injuries.
*2015 
Goal(.37)
2013.41
2014.51
2015.51TRIR
2012.5913
We are steadfast in our efforts to create 
an injury-free, motivating workplace.SAFE + MEANINGFUL ENGAGEMENT
*2015 safety datas include CheminovaSAFETY AS OUR BUSINESS VALUE
The integration of the legacy Cheminova 
sites into FMC was a significant achievement and progressed successfully through 2015. Employees at all of the sites have embraced safety as a core business value and an integral part of their culture. Working as partners, employees at every level of the organization were involved in adopting safety standards and improving plant conditions.  
The Panoli, India, manufacturing facility conducted 
an employee survey five months after the close of the acquisition. This survey showed a high level of engagement with FMC’s safety mission. Nearly every employee believed there were significant safety improvements and that the introduction of new standards was beneficial. 
Individuals attributed the successful 
implementation of the new safety standards to:
•
 Fr
equent meetings and training.
•
 In
volvement of shop floor employees.
•
 Gr
eater use of Personal Protective Equipment.
•
 Displa
ys of safety signage.
•
 Emer
gency preparedness drills.
•
 C
ontractor safety training.
•
 T
he “Being in the Moment” program which 
emphasizes focusing on the task at hand. 
Since the implementation of near-miss reporting 
– the process through which employees submit a report on circumstances where an incident could have occurred, but did not – employees have submitted nearly 1,000 near-miss reports per month. This high level of responsiveness shows a clear commitment to safety.  
Survey respondents appreciated the freedom to 
openly express their observations. They found opportunities to address hazards and identified improvement opportunities including storage area layouts, road lighting, signage relating to safety hazards and emergency response preparedness. To embed safety deeper into employees’ daily lives, they recommended additional fire safety training, frequent safety awareness events and an emphasis on safety outside the workplace.
Consistently High Standards 
We ensure uniformly high safety standards 
across our operations. To maintain these standards, we took immediate action to integrate FMC’s safety procedures at all legacy Cheminova locations. We assessed risks by engaging in dialogue with personnel at all levels, from floor operators to plant managers. We implemented our Glove Use and Open Blade Standards and upgraded Personal Protective Equipment as needed. Life Critical Standards and additional safety policies are being put into action during 2016. Compliance with and application of all standards, including Life Critical Standards, is regularly audited using our internal Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) audit process. 
A New Site Leader Review Standard, established 
in 2015, ensures that our manufacturing facility managers demonstrate excellence in EHS management. Within 90 days of assuming a site leader position, the individual must demonstrate understanding of EHS hazards and risks at the facility and the safeguards needed to  
mitigate them. 
This process reinforces excellence and safety 
while providing an opportunity for new site leaders to develop key skill sets. The review involves extensive preparation by the site leader and questioning by a review panel. The site leader must exhibit knowledge of permit and legal requirements and show ability to lead the site’s Management of Change processes, among other topics.  
12  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
Pierre Brondeau and Murgesh Konar
Panoli employees attend a training session on the TH!NK. SAFE. Manifesto.Murgesh Konar, plant manager at the FMC 
Lithium site in Patancheru, India, experienced the Site Leader Review. He gained extensive knowledge from the program which could be applied quickly. Murgesh noted that “the honest feedback gave me an opportunity to think in new ways, and the challenging questions about my site helped me understand more about the diverse considerations that go into each decision.” Murgesh said he would recommend this process for his FMC colleagues because the new knowledge helped him in all aspects of EHS, including building EHS relationships. 
FMC is dedicated to the safety of our employees 
and our communities in the event of an emergency. Site leaders joining FMC in 2015, as well as essential support people in their facilities, participated in emergency management drills. These simulations, which built on the drills conducted throughout FMC worldwide in 2014, helped site teams prepare and practice for emergency situations.  
Training and Support Tools
When an incident occurs in one of our 
manufacturing facilities, it is vital that we identify why it occurred so that we can prevent a similar incident in the future. This process is known as Root Cause Analysis (RCA), which trains employees to identify the primary causes of an incident and determine the best corrective actions to prevent them in the future. 
In addition to safety, RCA improves performance 
in many other areas in the workplace. To enhance execution of the RCA, 58 employees attended training sessions for approximately 900 hours in total in 2015. Attendees came from a variety of functions, including supply chain, engineering, production, technical, finance and customer support. In 2016, approximately 70 more employees will attend this two-day training course. 
For the last few years, we have improved 
our safety incident tracking and analysis by standardizing and centralizing the incident reporting process throughout our organization. To share best practices in safety, we publish a company-wide “lessons learned” summary for every recordable injury. 
All FMC sites 
created EHS Annual Compliance Calendars in 2015, in accordance with the EHS Annual Plan and Compliance Calendar Standard. The purpose of this standard is to ensure that EHS regulatory requirements are systematically identified in the annual plan for each site. Global compliance with this standard is a major step toward ensuring that safety and environmental requirements are met worldwide. 
Process Safety and Responsible Care
®
The safety and security of our manufacturing 
facilities is paramount to our employees and our communities. To promote these conditions, FMC’s Process Safety Management (PSM) Standard is aligned with the ACC Responsible Care Process Safety Code at all of our global sites. 
We performed gap assessments at legacy 
FMC manufacturing facilities against the PSM standard in 2015. We moved from a risk-based approach to a four-tiered hazard-based system that considers the severity of an issue regardless of its likelihood. We set priorities on hazard mitigation and are creating gap closure plans for our sites. We will begin PSM gap assessments after we have implemented Life Critical Standards at our legacy Cheminova sites.   
FMC conducted intensive process safety training 
through the Center for Chemical Process Safety boot camp. Sessions were held in Rockland, Maine; Newark, Delaware; and Frankfurt, Germany. Themes included achieving a process safety culture, managing a variety of hazards and risks, emergency planning and incident investigation.
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   13 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION + GENDER
05001000150020002500
Asia
PacificEMEA Latin
AmericaNorth
AmericaFemales
Males
FMC supports a global and diverse workforce. Our total workforce data 
includes legacy Cheminova.
The successful integration of Cheminova operations with FMC has increased the company’s capacity to meet customer needs through acquired technologies and a talented global workforce. The Rønland manufacturing site in Denmark enhances FMC’s ability to engage with markets across the EMEA region.SAFETY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
Our concern for safety extends beyond our FMC 
employees to our suppliers, contractors and customers. Requirements for health and safety protection throughout our supply chain are outlined in FMC’s Supplier Code of Conduct.  
We are improving contractor safety and we drive safety excellence with our suppliers of key  
raw materials.  
Contractor Safety
In 2015, FMC continued implementation of a third 
party system to pre-qualify and re-qualify our significant contractors in North America. FMC identifies significant contractors as those that will be exposed to the hazards of a manufacturing site or whose work may expose employees, the community or the environment to hazards. The qualification process emphasizes a safety analysis that ensures that our contractors maintain the same safety standards as FMC-owned sites. The qualification also requires adherence to sustainability and responsible sourcing standards, as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct. Other regions of the world outside of North America qualify their significant contractors using a manual process. In 2016, 
we will assess the expansion of the third party system into Latin America, Europe and Asia.  
Responding to Emergency in  
the Philippines
In 2013, a typhoon devastated the 
seaweed-growing island of Bantayan, Cebu – one of the communities that supply this essential raw material to our Health and Nutrition business. After the typhoon’s severe impact, the people of the Lipayran Island began to intensify their emergency preparedness. In 2015, a group of female farmers requested first aid training because the island has no government health clinic or permanent health workers. FMC Health and Nutrition, with the FMC Global Procurement Group, sponsored a two-day seminar with the Cebu City paramedic organization, an award-
14  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
In 2013, Typhoon Haiyan devastated the island of Bantayan, Cebu, washing away all of the seaweed farms and destroying many homes. Following the typhoon, FMC was among the initial providers of support services to the island. The company distributed tarps for homes and implemented a program to help farmers recover. Due to this support, farmers on the island were able to recover 80 percent of their livelihood within a year. One of those hit by the typhoon was Dolores, a local seaweed farmer. Dolores and her family are now completely recovered.
Sadly, six years ago Dolores lost her husband to a heart attack. A lack of health workers and a long travel time to the main island meant Dolores’ husband could not receive the emergency help he needed. This lack of medical services on the island became acute after the typhoon. Dolores was among the group of local women who approached FMC and initiated an emergency first aid seminar.  Dolores views the purchasing relationship with FMC as sustaining and reliable. The families will continue to support each other, while maintaining a local business that is sustainable.
“...FMC was among the initial providers of 
support services to the island. ”
Emergency Rescue Unit Foundation (ERUF) paramedics 
demonstrate proper resuscitation techniques to women seaweed farmers during a workshop in Lipayran Island, Bantayan, Cebu.ACCELERATING LITHIUM INTO THE FUTURE 
In 2015, Lithium defined four strategic priorities to help the business 
achieve its vision. With these priorities in mind, the Lithium leadership created Business Acceleration Teams (BATs) of cross-functional leaders from around the globe whose goal was to accelerate specific projects. In addition to accelerating business results, the BATs were designed to develop leadership skills by giving team members responsibility for a detailed investigation of a significant business opportunity. BAT members learned about different areas of the business and developed a network of leaders who support one another.
The four project topics were:
•  Technology Roadmap
 •  Cus
tomer Centricity
•  Talent Development
 •  Ba
ttery Quality 
The BATs worked on these projects for seven months with “sponsors” 
that provided mentoring and guidance. At the end of the project, teams presented recommendations to the Lithium leadership team and their work became part of Lithium’s future strategic plan. winning Emergency Rescue Unit 
Foundation. We distributed first aid kits and donated medical equipment and supplies to enhance local capacity.
A TALENTED  
FOUNDATION FOR 
GROWTH
FMC’s future depends on our 
employees, our most valuable resource. We seek to provide the training, tools and supportive atmosphere that allow people to maximize their contribution to our progress while accomplishing  
their individual goals. 
Global Professional Development
We initiated a common global 
performance management process in 2015, a major step forward in providing salaried employees with consistent evaluation and development at FMC. Launched in December 2015, the process features a uniform structure for goal-setting, progress updates and annual assessments – each on a globally consistent timetable. The process is enabled by Global Performance System, our new technology platform. 
By establishing individual goals and assessing 
each employee according to the same competency criteria, FMC is creating a more open and forward-looking culture. As our company evolves, we will be better able to identify those within our organization who make a real difference and have the appropriate skills to progress to a new challenge in their own teams, within a different business or functional area, or at another geographic location. 
Under the new process, employees collaborate 
with their supervisors to establish performance goals. They relate to four core competencies integral to everyone’s skill set: 
•
 Self-leadership: Being pr
oactive, managing 
challenges well and adding value to our 
safety culture.
•
 T
eamwork: Communicating effectively, 
resolving conflicts and behaving with integrity and respect for others.
•
 Busines
s and customer focus: Initiating  
new ideas, problem-solving and taking a  
global perspective.  
•
 Functional or t
echnical knowledge and skills: 
Demonstrating and expanding on  
one’s capabilities.
Leadership of people and the business are 
proficiencies expected of employees 
with managerial responsibilities. These 
competencies include promoting a safe and 
ethical workplace, 
developing and delegating 
to staff, building 
teams and cross-functional alliances 
and maintaining a 
strategic focus. 
16
DOLORES, SEAWEED FARMER
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   15 To complement the global performance 
management process, we are reactivating the director-level Strategic Leadership professional development program and launching the Talent Review process globally. Talent Reviews focus on building leaders from within our global network and ensuring that we foster a strong, internal talent pipeline. 
Diversity and Inclusion
A workforce that represents the diverse, global 
nature of our company is essential to FMC’s long-term success. To ensure that our employee base reflects this necessity, diversity and inclusion (D&I) are key components of our human resources and business strategies.
In 2015, we formalized our D&I focus by 
creating the new position of Diversity Officer. The Diversity Officer organized D&I support teams that include an Executive Committee subcommittee in which the CEO participates. D&I is a corporate priority at the highest level, and we are reinforcing our commitment to a diverse workplace where each employee is able to share his or her unique voice, perspective and personality. These multi-faceted viewpoints serve as the basis for FMC’s innovation, evolution and growth. 
The D&I team launched a global awareness 
campaign to announce its mission, objectives and philosophy. Initial communications focused on the value of D&I at FMC. The primary messages emphasized that:
•
 D&I is int
egral to FMC’s DNA.
•
 D&I mus
t remain top-of-mind.
•
 W
e are committed to achieving measurable 
D&I results.
We are designing a structured program to 
advance these principles in 2016.
Emphasis on Ethics
Throughout the process of integrating Cheminova 
with FMC, we conducted employee surveys to gauge interests and concerns. Employees from both organizations consistently stressed the 
16  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
MANILA
2013 2014 2015
Percentage of women 
employed at FMC23.7% 25% 26%
Women in professional roles*25.8% 26.3% 26.6%
Women in senior 
management*21.3% 21.3% 22.5%
*Exempt Workforce
Professional roles are defined by certain types of responsibilities or 
requirements, such as independent judgment and decision making that impact the business. 
Senior management roles are those that have significant responsibility 
to oversee and direct a functional discipline or business area within FMC.
In 2015, Diane Allemang, FMC Agricultural Solutions 
Global Director of Portfolio Strategy and North America 
Director of Business Development, was elected by the 
CropLife America Board of Directors as 46th chair of the 
board. She is the first female to hold this position.importance of ethical business values, behavior 
and corporate social responsibility. 
Consistent with these values, FMC fortified our 
role as a leading global corporate citizen when we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. Our participation established a continuous commitment for our combined entity, as Cheminova had been a member of the UNGC since 2009. 
Through membership in the UNGC, FMC formally 
pledged to align our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We address several of these issues in our Human Rights training program, in which all employees were taught to recognize and address potential human rights violations in the supply chain.
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   17 
At our location in Manila, Philippines, sustainability is part of everyday life. FMC Manila is a unique location because it includes diverse representatives from functions such as Information 
Technology and Accounts Payable, as well as business operations from Health and Nutrition and Agricultural Solutions. Because of this composition of employees, the Manila site is governed by three employee-owned committees: Safety, Social and Sustainability. The sustainability committee is comprised of team members at all levels of the organization, and the committee provides an opportunity for these employees to develop leadership skills by proposing ideas for site sustainability activities. 
In 2015, the Manila team organized a Medical Mission that provided free healthcare to Agricultural 
Solutions customers and growers. Services included physical examinations and general check-ups and provided much needed preventative healthcare in the nearby provinces. This program was very successful and will continue annually.
Other impactful activities by the sustainability committee included: 
•
 L
ong-term partnership with a local school that has 5,700 children. FMC Manila has provided 
water tanks for sanitation, held a book drive to fill the school’s library and trained teachers to use 
spreadsheets and word processing software.
•
 Ener
gy Awareness Project to bring attention to the impacts of inefficient energy use in the office. 
•
 P
arenting seminar that included establishing “Mom’s Rooms” for new mothers in the office.
•
 Financial W
ellness seminar.
•
 C
ommunications efforts such as a Sustainability Wall to share recent sustainability activities. 
FMC WOMEN – REACHING OUT TO WIN
2015 marked the first full calendar year of FMC’s 
Women’s Initiative Network (WIN). WIN is an executive-sponsored employee affinity group underway at our Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, headquarters with participation from the Ewing, New Jersey, and Newark, Delaware, sites. It helps women develop leadership skills that drive their success and FMC’s success.
More than 160 women attended events 
throughout the year, including: 
•
 A “Ho
w to Network” breakfast with an  
outside speaker who shared tips on goal-
oriented networking. 
•
 A seminar on “L
eading Through Organizational 
Change,” a timely subject given FMC’s acquisition of Cheminova.
•
 An int
eractive, poker-themed session on the 
impact of confidence on career decision-making entitled “Are you ‘All in’ on Your Career?” 
•
 A panel discus
sion featuring senior FMC 
female leaders who shared valuable insights about their career paths. 
•
 “WIN Da
y” with a seminar on stress and the 
launch of a web-based toolkit.
•
 A pilot ment
oring program that paired female 
employees with mentors.
In 2016, we will build on the momentum of 2015 events by catalyzing more opportunities for women to develop leadership skills, work with senior executives and realize their career ambitions. We are also exploring options to pilot the WIN model at other global FMC locations. 
Leading FMC women, (L to R) Linda Froelich, Andrea Utecht, Karen Totland, 
Luanne McGovern and Amy O’Shea, shared career insights.18  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
Our
PRODUCTS
2020 GOAL
• Dedicate 80% of R&D spend to develop sustainably   
advantaged products and technologies
17Our people enable FMC to deliver innovations that help meet the world’s nutrition needs 
and reduce global dependence on petroleum-based energy.  With safety embedded in 
everything we do, FMC focuses on each product’s impact—from its source, through the 
supply chain to its use by customers and consumers.
18  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   19 
INNOVATION  
TO MEET GLOBAL CHALLENGES
With the global population growing by 
approximately 75 million annually, there is a pressing need to continually increase crop yields for food and feed. Growers strive to maximize harvests while coping with the detrimental effects of invasive weeds, pests and plant disease, the urbanization of arable land and the impacts of climate change such as temperature and rainfall shifts.   
FMC addresses these challenges by developing products that improve 
agricultural productivity, specifically by helping farmers increase their crop yields.
Beyond basic food security, an increased 
population also has higher nutrition and health expectations. As economies develop and incomes rise, consumers expect greater food variety that is healthier and contains ingredients they recognize. Additionally, access to affordable and effective medicines is still a concern, especially in emerging nations. 
FMC addresses these challenges by creating high value, differentiated 
food and health ingredients that enable our customers to help feed the world, deliver more effective medicines and fuel healthier lifestyles.    
Environmental responsibility is one of the leading global concerns. In 2015, governments worldwide signed an international climate change agreement at the United Nations conference in Paris. They agreed that fossil fuel consumption and harmful greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced. FMC addresses these challenges by supplying lithium products used in 
diverse energy-efficient solutions that can reduce society's impact on our climate . 
AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
Innovation in FMC’s agricultural portfolio helps farmers combat the destructive potential of insect, weed and disease infestations. Our approach focuses on protecting, defending and nurturing crops – what we call The Zone of Production
™. We develop products that foster 
growth of healthier, stress-resistant plants with root systems capable of optimizing water and nutrient uptake. 
Breakthroughs in Biologicals 
FMC is investing in a Plant Health Platform 
that includes biologicals, seed treatments and micronutrients. We introduced three new biologicals – materials originating from renewable plant or natural microbial sources – to our comprehensive line of crop protection products. These biologicals exemplify how our innovations are integrating chemistry with a lower environmental impact.
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   19 We deliver responsibly sourced, innovative solutions that 
address pressing global food, health and energy concerns.
The new biological fungicide Ethos™ XB can help growers yield an 
average of 9.5 more bushels per acre of corn than untreated fields.
18
INNOVATION, STEWARDSHIP ,  
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY20  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS• FMC’s first biofungicide, Fracture ®, is a novel, 
patented product derived from germinating 
sweet lupine plants. Trials have shown it to be active enough to replace a synthetic fungicide within a growers’ application rotation. It provides a new mode of action to manage fungal resistance which helps protect grape, strawberry, tomato and almond plants from devastating diseases.
• VGR™ Soil Amendment is a strain of the 
beneficial bacterium Bacillus licheniformis that colonizes actively growing roots. It creates an improved living seedbed that supports larger root systems, improves nutrient uptake and increases water efficiency in plants. Crops treated with VGR require 17 percent less water and absorb essential nutrients more effectively than untreated plants. When combined with Capture
® LFR® insecticide, VGR helps increase 
crop vitality and contributes to significant yield increases for corn growers. 
• Ethos ™ XB insecticide/fungicide combines 
the activity of Capture LFR with a strain of the biofungicide Bacillus amyloliquefaciens  
to protect corn from a broad spectrum of seedling diseases. Formulated in FMC’s patented Liquid Fertilizer Ready technology, Ethos XB is our first in-furrow (applied with the seed as it is planted) product that integrates a biological fungicide with existing synthetic chemistries. With Ethos XB, growers can plant earlier and under more adverse conditions, seedlings can emerge faster and more uniformly, and disease protection periods can extend well beyond the norm. Results of trials showed that corn fields treated with this product yielded an average 9.5 bushels per acre more than  
untreated fields.    
We have also extended use of an existing biofungicide, Regalia Maxx
®, into Brazil for 
preventive control of fungal attacks on tomato and potato plants. On average, field trials with this product significantly reduced disease severity and increased crop yield.Technology to Mitigate  
Environmental Risk
FMC started commercializing the 
3RIVE 3D
™ in-furrow delivery system 
in 2015 with on-farm beta test units. 3RIVE 3D delivers crop protection products by combining patent-pending formulation technology with specifically designed application technology. Growers equipped with a 3RIVE 3D applicator on their corn planters can plant as much as 500 acres using 90 percent less water while maintaining necessary crop protection. Honored by Farm Industry News
® as a leading new technology 
in 2015, 3RIVE 3D has the potential to 
significantly reduce labor, time, water and fuel use in planting operations.
We exhibited this technology at the 2015 
Crop Protection Stewardship and Innovation Fair hosted by the United States House of Representatives’ Committee on Agriculture. The purpose of the Innovation Fair was to allow leaders in crop protection to demonstrate new technologies so Members of Congress and their staff can understand what the industry is doing to mitigate environmental risk.
Ten members of Congress, numerous 
congressional staffers and several representatives of non-governmental agencies viewed demonstrations of 3RIVE 3D. Participants were impressed with the equipment’s small size and its 500-acre coverage capability. They cited the reductions in water consumption, dust dissemination and drift as valuable contributions to sustainable agriculture and worker safety. 3RIVE 3D technology is adaptable to a range of crop protection products, including insecticides, fungicides and biological ingredients.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
From addressing growing consumer interest in natural foods to the significant need for longer product shelf life in areas without reliable refrigeration, FMC continues to innovate and apply its naturally derived portfolio to meet global trends and needs. 
Increasing Access to Nutrients and Medicine
FMC’s Avicel-plus
®, a food stabilizer that 
provides nutrient suspension functionality in 
cold, hot or ambient conditions, enhances dairy products’ ability to maintain texture, appearance and shelf life. In developing economies, extending the shelf life of milk and other dairy products is essential because availability of refrigeration and transportation is limited. When Avicel-plus is used in conjunction with ultra high temperature processing technology, milk 
3RIVE 3D™ applicator machineryFMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   21 shelf life can be extended up to six months 
– a breakthrough in maximizing nutritional opportunity and minimizing food waste. 
To provide more consumer-friendly options 
for multi-vitamin delivery, FMC has developed gummy offerings that are specialized blends of seaweed-based carrageenan and alginates. These offerings can also be formulated with our natural color product line for additional appeal to adults and kids. Our gummies enable over-the-counter (OTC) drug and nutritional supplement manufacturers to provide alternatives to animal-based gelatins. They also have heat stability characteristics that prevent melting during transport.
Currently we are partnering with several 
manufacturers to develop drug dosages in gummy form. While still in early stages, the experimentation suggests that everyday OTC medications like ibuprofen and acetaminophen may become available in consumer-preferred gummy formats. These gummy dosages would be carefully packaged for convenience and safety. 
A new generation of higher concentration 
omega-3 Epax products allows nutraceutical manufacturers to design smaller capsules with higher doses of active ingredient. By reducing the size of the capsule, manufacturers can use fewer resources during processing, packaging and shipping. Additionally, consumers benefit from smaller capsules that are easier to consume and contain more powerful omega-3 health benefits.  From Everyday Products to New Frontiers
FMC technology is helping enable advancements 
– from everyday products to groundbreaking new technologies.
FMC’s innovation in microcrystalline cellulose 
(MCC) allows toothpaste manufacturers to reduce the abrasiveness of their products, allowing consumers better tooth enamel protection and cleaning properties. In the traditional manufacturing process, toothpaste goes through intensive heating to successfully create a uniform gel. In 2016 we are launching gel-based technologies that reduce or eliminate the need for heating toothpaste during manufacturing, thereby reducing energy and water use.
We teamed up with a major pharmaceutical 
customer to identify a new use for Avicel
® PH-105,  
an excipient or pharmacologically inert substance used as a binder for pills and tablets. Working with our partner’s unique three-dimensional printing technology (3D printing), we were able to help formulate more precisely dosed medicines. The first application of our product using 3D printing will be a high-dose epilepsy therapy drug that launches in 2016. It is a highly porous tablet that disintegrates rapidly and therefore helps patients avoid the difficulties of swallowing large conventional tablets. This disintegration, along with the better taste of the tablet due to the new formulation, will improve the patient experience and can lead to greater compliance with medication schedules.
LITHIUM
We are leveraging our skills in developing advanced lithium applications and partnering with customers to design cutting-edge, sustainably advantaged products that address climate change concerns. 
Sustainable Solutions for Multiple Markets
Lithium hydroxide is best known as a key raw 
material for the highest energy-density lithium ion batteries for energy storage applications, especially for electric vehicle (EV) batteries.  According to analysts, the EV market has tremendous growth potential, with forecasts exceeding more than 25 percent growth per year. FMC, a long-time leader in lithium research 
Equally important to helping 
deliver a product with consumer appeal is fulfilling consumer desire to understand what is in their products. Our FoodScienceMatters.com platform allows us to directly educate consumers about the source, safety and crucial benefits of ingredients found on food labels. 
The MCC pulp supplier's eucalyptus seedlings are 
inserted in tubetes filled with substrate to allow 
proper plant growth and rooting. Once in the field 
the seedling will be planted, while the tubete is 
returned to the nursery and reused.and innovation, is working on the challenge of 
extending the driving range of rechargeable batteries as well as the number of charge cycles each battery achieves as the demand for high performance EV battery technology  
has accelerated. 
We are the world leader in producing 
butyllithium (BuLi), a material used in the synthetic rubber tire industry. The synthetic rubber tire market is growing at a faster rate than the natural rubber tire market. These tires have sustainability value because they deliver exceptional fuel efficiency, increase grip on wet roads and reduce noise pollution. Specifically, the tires are made from solution styrene butadiene rubber (SSBR), which has a lower rolling resistance. SSBR can reduce resistance from 25 to 30 percent compared to natural rubber, leading to improved fuel efficiency of 1 to 2 miles per gallon. Synthetic tires also avoid the environmental impacts of natural rubber, including deforestation and the added energy use and emissions resulting from shipping products from Asia to Europe and the United States.  
FMC is providing new lithium applications in 
a range of industries. We provide lithium to the aluminum industry for lithium aluminum alloys in lighter weight aircraft and aerospace applications. FMC’s battery grade lithium is used in residential energy storage power packs, which can be used to support renewable energy sources. 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Product stewardship is FMC’s commitment to mitigating the environmental, health and safety impacts of a product throughout its life cycle. It is one of the most significant aspects of FMC’s worldwide approach to building trust, dialogue and confidence in our company and our products with customers and consumers. 
Training and Safety Upgrades
In 2015, FMC trained approximately 400,000 
growers in Asia and the Americas to promote the importance of the safe handling, transport, storage, use and disposal of agricultural products. Farmers, distributors and FMC employees participated in educational sessions on safety, including management of emergency situations. Safety audits were conducted at several warehouses and contract manufacturing sites. In Brazil, all warehouses implemented new procedures to ensure prevention of product cross-contamination.
We delivered SmartCalda in Brazil, an advanced 
agricultural technology that improves on our TechnoCalda offering. The new service 
ADVANCING INNOVATION IN EUROPE 
FMC’s innovation success depends on close 
collaboration with customers. To align with our expanded footprint in Europe, we began construction of a European Innovation Center (EIC) at the Scion DTU Science and Technology Park in Hørsholm, Denmark, near Copenhagen. As a research and development hub for our Agricultural Solutions and Health and Nutrition businesses, the site is expected to attain a silver LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), a third party building standard rating. The EIC is a welcome addition to our existing portfolio of Innovation Centers in Brazil, China, India and the United States.
HØRSHOLM
22  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
FMC Lithium supports programs in Argentina in Antofagasta de la Sierra 
(Catamarca province) and Salar de Pocitos (Salta province) to teach local children about proper nutrition and health.FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   23 enables preparation 
and mixing of water and agrochemicals in a contained system that avoids direct interaction with an operator. The system minimizes the chance of errors and lowers the risk of human and environmental exposure. This technology was implemented in partnership with six sugar cane mills in 2015.
FMC seeks to replace older chemistries with 
newer products and technologies. Over the past several years, we have reduced by 75 percent the number of countries where one of our oldest insecticides, Furadan
®, is sold. We continue to 
investigate and mitigate all reported incidents and intentional misuse. In 2015, there were no confirmed reports. Our goal is to only sell in countries where the application of the product is under strictly controlled systems.
In our natural colors business in Health and 
Nutrition, we improved shipping and handling safety in 2015. We verified that all containers met approved standards, updated transportation labels and provided hazardous material training.
In Lithium, stewardship assessments and training 
are integral to our product management and new product development. FMC continued to educate customers and equipment suppliers about hygiene and safe handling guidelines for Stabilized Lithium Metal Powder. We completed hazardous material training for all lithium metal customers, transitioned to a globally unified emergency response system and received ISO-14001 recertification at our Bessemer City plant in North Carolina.Implementing Company-wide Requirements
We made substantial progress in 2015 on 
implementing the Global Harmonization System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS). We converted all FMC product labels and Safety Data Sheets (SDS) to the GHS format in countries where required, and are  
modifying Cheminova product labels while  
successfully incorporating its global SDS into  
our centralized system. 
Each of our businesses advanced toward full 
adherence to the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) program. FMC added questions to our supplier qualification forms to ensure compliance with REACH standards throughout our supply chain.
RIGOROUS  
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Progress on Supplier Screening  
FMC’s supplier partners are the key to ensuring 
a safe and responsible supply chain. Through FMC’s Supplier Selection and Approval Process, all new significant contractors and raw material suppliers are screened for adherence to quality, safety and human rights standards. Significant contractors are those that are exposed to hazards while working at an FMC site. This screening is vital to manage and mitigate supplier risk. FMC integrated Cheminova suppliers into this process in 2015, resulting in 91 percent of all significant FMC suppliers (including legacy Cheminova) being screened. Our target for 2016 is 98 percent compliance.
The Cheminova integration process included 
assessment of suppliers for export compliance (including prohibited parties, embargoes and trade sanctions) under the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In accordance with our Conflict Mineral Sourcing Policy, we screened all of Cheminova’s raw materials to determine if they contained any tin, tungsten, tantalum or gold (3TGs) and determined that we are in compliance with our policy. An FMC product featuring a GHS label.
FMC Pakistan developed an illustrated brochure to educate farmers on 
best practices in safe handling and preventing exposure of children to pesticides. These brochures were prominently displayed in villages.
FMC processes seaweed at 
our manufacturing facilities in Rockland, Maine, and Cebu, Philippines. The seaweed is cooked to extract the valuable fiber, and then the fiber material is processed and dried into a fine powder. This powder can then be added to many different foods and personal care products by our customers.We receive wood pulp from our suppliers at our manufacturing sites in Newark, Delaware, and Cork, Ireland. We then dice the pulp and process it, resulting in microcrystalline cellulose. This process is energy intensive. Our site in Cork, Ireland, has a combined heat and power plant to provide highly efficient energy.  
Carrageenan is a critical ingredient in a range of everyday products such as infant formula, plant-derived milks, yogurt, toothpaste and  
many more. FMC Health and Nutrition’s products vary greatly in their applications but are all primarily sourced from natural raw 
materials. Three of our key food and pharmaceutical products begin as sustainably sourced natural resources and we ensure the highest level of sustainability throughout their value chain.
HEALTH + NUTRITION
TRANSPORT  
+ STORAGE
FOOD, PHARMACEUTICAL AND NUTRACEUTICAL PRODUCERS
FMC works closely with our customers to design custom blends of MCC, carrageenan or omega-3. Some products allow 
our customers to use less material or resources in manufacturing – see page 21 for stories on how our customers are able to save energy in toothpaste manufacturing and use less material in pharmaceutical tablets. Transported by truck, rail, ocean freighter
Popular applications of MCC include pharmaceutical binders and personal care products. FMC
CUSTOMER END CONSUMERMANUFACTURING
PROCESS SOURCE FMC PRODUCTGLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN
FMC concentrates omega-3 oils to improve potency and performance.  Our by-product streams are used or sold as a biofuel. The processing plant in Ålesund, Norway, is ISO-14001 certified and implements systems to reduce environmental impact in processing.All procurement across FMC aligns with the voluntary operational guidelines 
of United Nations Global Compact and the FMC Supplier Code of Conduct. 
24  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESSFMC’s Avicel® 
microcrystalline cellulose 
(MCC) is a unique 
ingredient that offers 
optimum functionality as 
well as structural stability and consistency at 
varying temperatures in 
applications across the food, specialty and  
 pharmac
eutical industries.
MICROCRYSTALLINE 
CELLULOSE
FMC’s Epax® concentrated omega-3 fatty acids are used in customer-specific omega-3 formulas that are scientifically proven in numerous clinical studies to support the health of our hearts, brains, eyes, joints, blood vessels  
and more.
OMEGA-3 
FISH OIL
FMC carrageenan is a naturally occurring family of carbohydrates extracted from red seaweed and is employed for its specific gelling, thickening and stabilizing properties across  
many applications in food  
and pharmaceutical products.
CARRAGEENAN
Eucalyptus
The cellulose used to produce FMC’s Avicel
® microcrystalline 
cellulose is derived from various species of trees. FMC sources this cellulose from producers around the world. Our producers employ sustainable harvesting practices that are certified by third party organizations including the Forest Stewardship Council, Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification, Brazilian Forest Certification Program and Sustainable Forestry Initiative.  Canada South Africa Brazil
FMC Epax ® omega-3 Concentrate 
is derived from responsibly sourced omega-3 crude oil, with full traceability from the fishing grounds to the final storage tank. We ensure sustainable practices by our suppliers through nonprofit third-party certifications, including Friends of the Sea, International Fishmeal and Fish Oil Organization, Global Standard for Responsible Supply and the Marine Stewardship Council.
Peru
FMC Carrageenan is derived from several species of seaweed and is cultivated by family farmers in Madagascar, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Chile. In conjunction with the New England Aquarium, we are currently developing Best Management Practices for sustainable seaweed production. 
AnchoviesRed Seaweed
Omega-3 supplements have health benefits for brain, heart and eye function.
Indonesia Philippines Chile Madagascar
Certifications  
Reinforce Sustainability Standards
Sustainability certifications are frameworks for 
verifying compliance with rigorous sourcing criteria on specific raw materials. FMC assesses suppliers’ certifications during our procurement screening process because they validate that our raw materials are supplied responsibly.
For example, we require our anchovy suppliers 
– the source of 80 percent of the fish oil in our omega-3 ingredients – to be certified by Friends of the Sea. We also require that suppliers of the wood pulp used in our stabilizing food ingredient, microcrystalline cellulose, obtain third-party certification of their forestry practices.
We are addressing gaps where certifications of 
our raw materials do not exist. 
• FMC Health and Nutrition depends on a sustainable supply of seaweed for our alginate and carrageenan products, so we are partnering with the New England Aquarium to develop best management practices (BMPs). These BMPs will ensure our seaweed growing and harvesting processes meet appropriate social and environmental parameters. 
• We are designing a certification for providers of our natural color raw materials. This framework is designed to assess growers’ responsibility in integrated pest management and soil health strategies, social and labor practices, and compliance with environmental regulations. By sourcing only from vendors using this process, we will be able to add a label attesting to each product’s sustainability – a benefit that will further differentiate FMC products in the marketplace. The natural color certification program will be piloted in 2016 and fully implemented by 2020. 
Adopting Ethical and Security Standards
To ensure ethical standards are applied to our 
products’ life cycles, FMC updated the Supplier Code of Conduct to reflect our corporate social responsibility commitment. As part of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, the Supplier Code now requires that suppliers “promote human rights within the communities in which they operate through the improvement of economic, environmental and social conditions.”
Because we care about the security of our 
products as they cross international borders, we are aligned with the voluntary Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), a government-sponsored program to facilitate trade while ensuring United States security. We added specific C-TPAT questions to the Supplier Selection Process to ensure FMC logistics personnel are aware of all our new direct material suppliers who are shipping chemicals into the United States from other countries. All new raw material suppliers who ship across borders are identified and screened by FMC and our logistics partners.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR  
WOMEN IN INDIAN VILLAGES
FMC, through legacy Cheminova, has 
a long history of supporting women in India. Women living in poverty in India often do not have access to education and therefore cannot make independent contributions to the financial well-being of their families. Through the Safety, Health and Livelihood (SAHELI) project, we offer education for women in rural villages, including providing sewing machines and training in sewing and sales skills. Women in the SAHELI project have developed the ability to provide for their families outside the home and report significantly improved self-esteem.
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   25 
26  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
Our
RESPONSIBILITY
192025 GOALS
• 15% r eduction in energy intensity
•
 15% r
eduction in GHG intensity
•
 15% r
eduction in waste intensity
•
 20% r
eduction in water use intensity in high-risk areas2020 GOAL
• Achieve 100 on the Community Engagement IndexOur responsibility to reduce the environmental impact of our products and to strengthen 
the communities where we work and live are commitments that FMC’s people take very 
seriously. Advancing the health and sustainability of our planet is essential to Our Formula 
for Progress, as is our dedication to helping our communities flourish.
26  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   27 
 FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   27 TAKING ACTION FOR  
GLOBAL + LOCAL BENEFIT
FMC’s responsibility is to promote environmental 
well-being globally as well as to encourage the vitality of our communities locally. With this combined global and local perspective, we work “in ethical ways that increasingly benefit society, the economy and the environment,” as stated in the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® principles.
To put this concept into action, we implement 
changes that focus on reducing our dependence on scarce resources and minimizing our environmental footprint. We ensure that our communities consider us valuable neighbors. Our comprehensive focus on environmental, social and economic impacts is the foundation of our business decision-making and success. Environmental Sustainability Goals
FMC set 10-year goals for our key environmental 
impact areas: energy, greenhouse gases, water and waste. Our Formula for Progress demonstrates our dedication to responsible operations and is integrated into our manufacturing initiatives and action plans. 
To ensure the quality of our performance data, 
we obtained external assurance of our energy, GHG, water and waste data for the first time in 2015. By working with a third-party independent auditor we achieve:
• Greater visibility into our internal systems, controls and opportunities for improvement.
• Increased credibility through the validation of the quality and reliability of our data.
• Increased uniformity and consistency of reporting procedures.
• Enhanced transparency to deepen our dialogue with stakeholders.
See the assurance statement on page 34.
Community Engagement Goals
FMC continues to measure the extent and quality 
of our interaction with local communities using our Community Engagement Index. When we created the Index in 2011, we set a target to achieve a score of 90, indicating that most of our manufacturing sites are engaging with the communities in each of four categories.  
In 2015, FMC Agricultural Solutions inaugurated a new herbicide 
research and manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China.
FMC team members in Mexico participated in the first Carrera del Campo Mexicano 5K run. As the principal organizer of the charity run, FMC promotes physical health and activity for our employees and their families. All the sponsors of the race donated $3,500 to Helen Keller School in Guadalajara, Mexico, to support blind children.
We advance the health and sustainability of the world 
around us by reducing our environmental impact and strengthening our communities. MANAGING, MEASURING +  
REDUCING FMC’S IMPACT28  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESSThe four categories are:
• Safety: We put safety first and share our 
safety knowledge with our neighbors.
• Operational transparency: We strive for transparency so that our business activities are well understood in the community. 
• Community leadership: We take active participatory roles in our communities.
• Community partnership: We share our personal and professional skills, talents and interests to further our mutual welfare. 
In 2015, we reached 87 out of 100 on the Community Engagement index, indicating that the majority of our 26 manufacturing locations have engaged in the four categories. To continue our progress, we have now set a goal to achieve 100 on the index, indicating engagement in all categories at our global manufacturing sites  
by 2020. 
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE  
FOR EFFICIENCY + SUSTAINABILITY
We recognize that our operations require valuable resources, and we are committed to reducing our environmental impact. Our operations experts have a responsibility to minimize energy use, GHG emissions, water use and waste generation. By minimizing these impacts, we increase the sustainability of our operations and maximize economic benefit. Enhanced Production, Yield and Quality
To accelerate our focus on efficient 
manufacturing, we established Technical Centers in our Health and Nutrition and Lithium operations. The Technical Centers are comprised of engineering teams that identify, implement and manage manufacturing projects that drive process, yield and quality innovation in the short- and long-term. This approach parallels a structure already in place in Agricultural Solutions. Through our innovation in manufacturing processes, we are extracting more products from our raw materials, requiring fewer resources and generating less waste.
GLOBAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS UPDATE*
• FMC’s three businesses have very different operational profiles and therefore different environmental impacts associated with each business. A large change in a metric for one business may or may not have an impact on FMC's overall operational profile. For example, if Agricultural Solutions has a significant reduction in water intensity, it may have a minimal impact on FMC’s overall water intensity because the water use in this business is small compared to Health and Nutrition and Lithium.
• Manufacturing of FMC Lithium products requires higher consumption of energy and results in higher generation of waste compared to other FMC products. However, the volume of lithium production is less than the other two businesses, so reductions in resource intensity at our Lithium manufacturing sites may not greatly affect FMC's overall intensity. For example, a reduction in energy at Lithium sites will greatly affect FMC absolute energy, but will marginally affect FMC energy intensity. Of all the metrics, Lithium has the most impact on FMC’s absolute energy, GHG and waste metrics. 
• Health and Nutrition makes several different categories of products, and therefore the portfolio is mixed between resource-intensive manufacturing and resource-light blending operations. Similar to Lithium, Health and Nutrition can have a major impact on absolute resource use but its lower production volume means that changes do not always affect overall FMC resource intensity. Health and Nutrition has an impact on FMC’s absolute energy, GHG and water use. 
• The volume of products manufactured in Agricultural Solutions is the highest of our three businesses. However, in 2015 overall production decreased due to market conditions. At FMC-owned Agricultural Solutions facilities, we primarily blend and package products so the resource use of these sites is low, despite very high production volumes. 2015's production decrease offsets the resource reductions by the other businesses. See page 30 for more details.
*The energy, GHG, water and waste data (FMC Total and Intensity) in this section have been externally assured. The assured data excludes legacy   
  Cheminova manufacturing and Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing total and combined intensity.
FMC donated school supplies and classroom furniture 
at a primary school in Kilavalam Village, India.• At our facility in Haugesund, Norway, we have 
implemented process changes that increased the amount of alginate we are able to extract from seaweed. These changes reduce our raw material usage as well as the amount of seaweed required to be harvested.
• Process upgrades at our Bessemer City, North Carolina, facility have resulted in improved lithium quality and asset utilization. These advances have led to an overall reduction of waste and energy intensity of nearly 20 percent. Bessemer City’s proximity to North American and European customers reduces transportation distances, costs and emissions compared to Asian suppliers. The combination of location, quality and reliability enables us to better meet customer product needs.
• Agricultural Solutions continued to implement process technology improvements in active ingredient manufacturing that is outsourced to contract manufacturers. As a result, we improved material yields of 13 active ingredients. These improvements reduce waste and the use of solvents, two key challenges in active ingredient manufacturing. 
FMC continues to enhance production capabilities to serve customers worldwide. To support our expansion in Asia, we added capacity to the Suzhou, China, Agricultural Solutions facility and constructed a Health and Nutrition plant in Rayong, Thailand. The Rayong site is expected to begin manufacturing MCC in 2017 and will repurpose wastewater treatment sludge from that process to be aligned with our zero waste to landfill target. With our acquisition of Cheminova, six new manufacturing sites were added to our portfolio and will be reported in our 2016 Sustainability Report. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Energy consumption and fuel combustion, 
especially fossil fuels, are the primary sources of GHG emissions. GHGs are comprised primarily of carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, and methane and trap heat in Earth’s atmosphere. The excess heat in the atmosphere causes global temperatures to increase. FMC has taken a position to address climate change through strategic energy sourcing, increased energy efficiencies and GHG emissions reductions.  
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   29 
GLOBAL WASTE DISPOSED*
ACTIONS: We have set a goal to 
reduce our total waste disposal intensity 
by 15 percent***. Additionally, we are planning certification of all our Health and Nutrition manufacturing sites for sending zero waste to landfill. Health and Nutrition will begin this program by completing third party waste audits at our Haugesund, Norway, and Cork, Ireland, facilities.ANALYSIS: We reduced our absolute waste disposed by 19 percent, which 
reduced our intensity 12 percent from the 2013 baseline**. This reduction has been accomplished by a shift in the mix of products manufactured by Lithium.
 * Da ta excludes Cheminova
 **
 Prior t
o 2014, waste disposal details were not tracked from our active  
ingredient contract manufacturers, therefore this graph shows the progress  
of our data collection system which now includes this expanded data.   
***
 FMC 20
25 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. FMC TotalActive Ingredient 
Contract Manufacturing Total
FMC IntensityFMC + Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing IntensityTotal Waste Disposed (K-Tonnes)
040
206080100
05101520253035
120140
Waste Disposed Intensity (Kg per Tonne)2013 2014 2015
In 2015, the local seaweed farming community on Pemba Island, 
Zanzibar, Tanzania, was hit hard by a cholera outbreak due to poor sanitation infrastructure. Working with the Pemba Foundation, FMC financed the construction of public toilets to support healthier living conditions for the community. Photo Credit: Pemba FoundationFMC’s commitment extends beyond our 
manufacturing processes to our product portfolio, where we are improving existing products and developing new platforms and technologies that help slow climate change.  
To reduce our energy intensity and identify 
improvement opportunities, we have conducted energy audits at our manufacturing sites since 2013. In 2015, FMC audited energy use in Cork, Ireland, and Minera del Altiplano, Argentina. 
• In Cork, we identified seven projects for immediate analysis and planning. These projects include improvements in insulation, chiller system optimization, and improved heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems efficiencies. 
• The Minera del Altiplano audit focused on ensuring the efficient use and delivery of natural gas arriving through a new pipeline, as well as potential efficiencies in the steam system, heat recovery equipment and compressed air system. Implementation plans are being developed to put these opportunities into action. 
Our conversion to natural gas in Rockland, Maine, has resulted in a 30 percent reduction in GHG emissions. With this conversion, 68 percent of all energy used by FMC globally for manufacturing is from natural gas, a more GHG-efficient fuel.
30  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
OLD SCENARIO
We relocated our United States Health and Nutrition warehouses from 
Pennsylvania to facilities near our plants and minimized consumption of petroleum and associated GHG emissions during shipping. With warehouses now located near Rockland, Maine, and Newark, Delaware, we reduced transit distances from the plant to the warehouse by over 425,000 miles and save 86,100 gallons of fuel per year. 
8 6 ,10 0
GALLONS OF GAS SAVED
NEW FOOTPRINT99,160 13,060
GALLONS GALLONS
 ACTIONS: Due t o these 
improvements in Health and 
Nutrition and Lithium, we are confident 
that as we return to normal production rates in Agricultural Solutions our energy intensity will be reduced. We are focused on accomplishing our targeted energy intensity reduction of 15 percent**.  Accomplishing this goal is driven by the reduction opportunities identified in audits at three of our top five highest energy use sites. We are expanding the program in 2016 to audit our Bessemer City, North Carolina, Lithium site. Additionally we will use the ideas generated at our Cork, Ireland, audit to drive reduction at our Newark, Delaware, plant.GLOBAL ENERGY USE*
ANALYSIS: In 2015, our absolute energy use remained flat. FMC’s 
overall production decreased, driven by Agricultural Solutions. This decreased production caused energy intensity numbers to rise, because we continued to make Health and Nutrition and Lithium products that require significant energy. Despite this overall increase in energy intensity, Health and Nutrition and Lithium individually accomplished energy intensity improvements of 3 percent and 19 percent respectively.  
FMC TotalActive Ingredient 
Contract Manufacturing Total
FMC IntensityFMC + Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing IntensityTotal Energy Use (Terajoules)
05101520
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,000
2530
Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per Tonne)
2013 2014 2015
 * Da ta excludes Cheminova
 **
 FMC 20
25 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. 
FMC strategically evaluates our global energy 
use to understand how we can maximize our reduction. Over 75 percent of FMC global energy use is at five locations. At Rockland, Cork and Minera del Altiplano, we are in the implementation phase of improvements. We are now focusing on the next two: Bessemer City, North Carolina, and Newark, Delaware. We will conduct an energy audit in Bessemer City during 2016, and will apply our energy audit findings from the Cork, Ireland, audit to the Newark site, which uses the same processes as Cork. 
Waste Minimization
Our Health and Nutrition business announced 
plans to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2025. Our Rockland, Maine, site has already invested in process equipment to repurpose waste streams for beneficial uses. Algifiber, a byproduct of seaweed processing, is used by farmers to spread on their land and improve the quality and organic content of the soil. In 2016, the zero waste to landfill program will continue with waste reviews of our Cork, Ireland, and Haugesund, Norway, facilities. In Ålesund, Norway, we are working on reducing the organic content in our wastewater by 70 percent in two years.
Water Conservation
FMC has used a data-based approach with 
World Resources Institute's Aqueduct
™ tool to determine our manufacturing locations where water availability is increasingly challenging. Our water intensity at high-risk sites has decreased by 3 percent since 2013, our baseline year. At those sites, we focus our efforts on reducing water use. Additionally, we have expanded our water risk analysis to include six newly acquired Cheminova sites. By 2025, we are committed to reducing our water intensity at our 12 high-risk locations by 20 percent.  
SOURCING STRATEGIES TO  
REDUCE IMPACT
Our responsibility to the environment extends well beyond the impacts of our own product manufacturing. FMC purchases millions of tons of materials per year, including packaging raw materials and advanced intermediate chemicals. Our sourcing projects focus on achieving a positive sustainability impact in our supply chain. In 2015, we centered our efforts on packaging and collaboration with raw  
material suppliers. 
Efficient Use of Packaging
FMC continues to reduce the impact of 
materials used in packaging. For example, we began refurbishing existing intermediate bulk containers (IBC) used for transporting agricultural products, rather than purchasing 
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   31 
GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS*
ACTIONS: In August 2015, we 
completed a natural gas pipeline to 
supply our Minera del Altiplano (MdA), Argentina facility. Before the pipeline, MdA supplemented natural gas with highly GHG-intensive fuel oil when natural gas was not available. The pipeline now allows the site to run consistently and safely on natural gas and eliminates thousands of truck miles per year in transporting gas.  
This project, in addition to other energy and GHG efforts, is contributing to our goal of reducing FMC’s overall GHG intensity by 15 percent**. ANALYSIS: We reduced our absolute GHG emissions by 7 
percent. This achievement was driven by the first full year of operation since converting our Rockland, Maine, United States facility to compressed natural gas. Despite this and other improvements, our overall GHG intensity was flat due to lower production in our Agricultural Solutions business.
FMC TotalActive Ingredient 
Contract Manufacturing Total
FMC IntensityFMC + Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing IntensityTotal GHG Emissions (K-Tonnes CO2e)
00.51.01.5
01002003004005002.02.5
GHG Intensity (Tonnes CO2e per Tonne)
2013 2014 2015600
 * Da ta excludes Cheminova
 **
 FMC 20
25 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. 32  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESSnew ones. Our 
container supplier is able to recondition the steel cage exterior of the IBC and use it with a new interior plastic containment bottle without reducing quality or safety. By using refurbished cages instead of purchasing new ones, 
we eliminated over 1 million pounds of carbon emissions from steel production.
 
ARGENTINA’S PIPELINE  
TO DEPENDABLE ENERGY  
 
In August 2015, the 130 kilometer pipeline supplying natural gas from Pocitos, Salta, Argentina to our lithium production facility in Salar del Hombre Muerto, Catamarca, Argentina began operations. The pipeline is the culmination of a multi-year project and represents a significant achievement of reliable, lower GHG-emitting energy for FMC. 
Safe and Reliable Supply,  
Better for the Environment
Obtaining energy through the pipeline is 
substantially better for the environment than the previous approach which required more than 10 trucks per day to drive through mountainous terrain, often under difficult weather conditions. These transportation difficulties caused safety issues, delays and excessive consumption of diesel fuel, as the trucks consumed nearly a full liter of gasoline to travel one kilometer. 
Now that the facility can rely on consistent 
natural gas through the pipeline, we are decreasing emissions from fuel shipments via truck, while reducing transportation safety concerns. We also have eliminated the use of greenhouse gas intensive fuels, such as fuel oil.
The combination of removing 10 trucks per 
day from the road and using solely natural gas equates to approximately 9,300 tonnes of CO
2 
avoided, which is the equivalent of taking 1,963 cars off the road for one year. 
Reusable cages on Intermediate 
Bulk Containers provide significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
GLOBAL WATER USE*
ACTIONS: Due to the regional nature 
of water quality and availability, FMC 
transitioned to a risk-based water metric 
and has identified manufacturing sites in locations at a high risk for water scarcity. At those locations, we have already reduced our water intensity by 3 percent, and will continue to focus our efforts to achieve a 20 percent reduction** at these locations combined. ANALYSIS: In 2015, FMC’s absolute water use was nearly flat. However, 
reduced production in our Agricultural Solutions business, coupled with increased production in the water-intensive Health and Nutrition and Lithium businesses, resulted in an increase in overall water intensity despite efficiency gains. 
FMC TotalActive Ingredient 
Contract Manufacturing Total
FMC IntensityFMC + Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing IntensityTotal Water Use (Million Cubic Meters)354045
02468101214
5055
Water Use Intensity (Cubic Meters per Tonne)2013 2014 2015
 * Da ta excludes Cheminova
 **
 FMC 20
25 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. 
The new pipeline is the culmination of a multi-year 
project and represents a significant achievement of 
reliable, lower GHG-emitting energy for FMC.Community Infrastructure 
Enhancements 
As part of our commitment 
to operate in a sustainable manner, we have agreed with the Catamarca, Argentina, local government to create a trust to finance environmental and infrastructure projects focused on the needs of local communities, including projects related to water, health, education, agriculture and mining. The trust is to be funded by our Minera del Altiplano, Argentina, site. A local bank will act as a trustee of the funds that are administered and controlled by a management committee composed of government officials and FMC representatives.
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   33 
PARTNERS IN SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE
In 2015, FMC became a member of Field to Market ®: 
The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. Field to 
Market brings together a diverse group of grower organizations; agribusinesses; food, beverage, restaurant and retail companies; conservationgroups; universities; and public sector partners to focus on defining, measuring, and advancing the sustainability of food, fiber and fuel production in the United States.
Grounded in science and committed to continuous 
improvement in agricultural productivity, environmental quality and human well-being, Field to Market’s goals include the efficient use of energy, water and land, the minimization of greenhouse gas emissions from United States cropland per unit of output and the preservation of soil and water quality. As a member, FMC is engaged in solutions for sustainability and continuous improvement in agriculture. FMC participates in working groups on key sustainability issues including greenhouse gas metrics, water quality and land use as well as communications and engagement. 
FARMERS OF TOMORROW 
FMC Pakistan sponsored the biggest Science Olympiad in Pakistan, 
LUMS PSIFI, with a theme of “Farmers of Tomorrow.” This unique program promoted innovation and technology among the youth of Pakistan and provided a platform to express their interest in science. The initiative was attended by over 60 young people from local farming families.
PAKISTANFMC hosted a water conservation training for 
farmers in Venkatapura Village, Karnataka, India. The objective of the training was to raise awareness among farmers on water waste and to demonstrate how water could be conserved for dryland agriculture. Government officials from the State Department of Agriculture and academics from a local agricultural university participated.
34  OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   35 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pierre R. Brondeau
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerCabot Corporation
G. Peter D’Aloia
Managing Director andMember of the Board of DirectorsAscend Performance Materials  
Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer
PrincipalGreer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson
Former Chief Executive Officer and PresidentElevance Renewable Sciences, Inc.
Dirk A. Kempthorne
President and Chief Executive OfficerAmerican Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive OfficerW. R. Grace & Co.
Robert C. Pallash
Retired President, Global Customer Group and Senior Vice PresidentVisteon Corporation
William H. Powell
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive OfficerNational Starch and Chemical Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. 
Retired Chief Executive Officer and PresidentDresser-Rand Group, Inc.EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Pierre R. BrondeauPresident, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board 
Paul Graves
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer
Andrea E. Utecht
Executive Vice President  
General Counsel and Secretary
Mark A. Douglas
PresidentFMC Agricultural Solutions
Eric W. Norris
PresidentFMC Health and Nutrition
Barry J. Crawford
Vice PresidentOperations
Kenneth A. Gedaka
Vice President  
Communications and Public Affairs
Kyle Matthews
Vice PresidentHuman Resources
Karen M. Totland 
Vice President, Global Procurement, Global Facilities & Corporate SustainabilityOFFICERS
Brian P. AngeliVice President, Corporate Strategy and Development  
& Investor Relations
Marc L. Hullebroeck
President, FMC EuropeVice President FMC Agricultural Solutions, EMEA
David A. Kotch
Vice President  
Chief Information Officer
Nicholas L. Pfeiffer
Vice President,  
Corporate Controller  
and Chief Accounting Officer
Andrew D. Sandifer
Vice President and Treasurer
Tom Schneberger
Vice PresidentGlobal Business DirectorFMC Lithium
Charles J. Thomas
Vice President, Finance
Bethwyn Todd
President, FMC AsiaVice PresidentFMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia
Shawn Whitman
Vice President, Government Affairs
Antonio Zem
President, FMC Latin AmericaVice President  
FMC Agricultural Solutions,  
Latin America2015 Sustainabil ity ReportFormula forOur
SGP
Sustainable Green Printing Partnership
Landfill-Free
EnterprisePrinted by a
Printing Company
Cover.indd   1 5/25/16   1:49 PM