2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAs the world begins to emerge from a global health crisis unlike any other in our lifetime, there 
is perhaps no better time to reflect on an extraordinary year that showed us the resilience of 
the human spirit and the capacity of individuals to work together to solve societal problems.
While the global pandemic required all of us to live and work differently, I am proud of how our 
company rose to the challenge, from finding creative ways to engage customers and growers 
to maintaining operations while many employees worked remotely. Despite global supply 
chain disruptions, our manufacturing sites continued to safely produce and ship products that 
farmers desperately need to meet the world’s ever-growing demand for food, feed and fiber. 
As a result, we continued to perform well throughout the year and delivered strong results.
As the pandemic evolved, FMC stepped in to support hospitals, emergency management 
agencies and others on the front lines. Employees were equally committed to helping the 
communities where they live and work, volunteering to disinfect schools and distributing 
food to those in need.
All of this is a testament to our culture, values and resolve. 
This year’s Sustainability Report theme, Resilient. Ready., highlights the determination of 
our employees, customers and suppliers in overcoming any obstacle to support farmers 
in their critical role of providing food to help nourish people. Together, we are ready to 
take on the challenges of tomorrow.
Office of the CSO
In October 2020, Karen Totland was named to the newly created role of Vice President 
and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). We want to constantly push ourselves to be 
progressive in our thinking and ensure our goals are as aggressive as they can be. The 
new Office of the CSO will bring greater focus and direction to our sustainability efforts 
around the world, driving meaningful change across the company and supporting global 
initiatives to address some of the world’s most urgent challenges. Throughout the report, 
you will find examples of how FMC is approaching issues of climate change and food 
security, while advancing innovative technologies to support sustainable agriculture 
around the world. Diversity and Inclusion
At FMC, we believe we have a role to 
play in creating greater fairness, equity 
and opportunity in our workplace, in the 
communities where we operate and in 
broader society. In 2020, we launched 
two task forces led by FMC officers to 
understand and address issues of gender and race equity within our company. As a result 
of their work, we developed new global policies and practices to improve workforce 
diversity. This includes two objectives to increase the representation of women in our 
global workforce to 50 percent and Black/African Americans in our U.S. workforce to 14 
percent across all job levels by 2027. 
In setting ambitious diversity goals and continuing to foster a diverse and inclusive 
workplace, we are committed to expanding our reach and removing barriers that have 
disproportionately impacted underserved and underrepresented communities. We 
are confident this will expand opportunities for all employees and create value for our 
business as we bring together the best minds and talent from all backgrounds and 
corners of society.
Ready for What’s Next
We understand that the long-term health and vitality of our planet, communities and 
business is connected to our people and their actions. Sustainability continues to be a 
catalyst for innovation across our product lines, and employees are passionate about 
bringing new solutions to growers to sustainably protect their crops. It is what drives us, 
what drives our performance and what will drive our growing company well into the future. 
I hope you enjoy reading this year’s Sustainability Report and learning more about how 
FMC is Resilient and Ready when it comes to tackling some of today’s biggest challenges 
around sustainable agriculture and global food production.A MESSAGEfrom Mark Douglas,  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Mark Douglas
President and Chief Executive Officer  
FMC Corporation
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
This report and our web-based content at  
fmc.com/sustainability have been prepared in  
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.  
A detailed GRI Content Index can be found on the website.
United Nations Global Compact
FMC became a signatory to the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This report represents our  
fifth Communications on Progress in support of the  
UNGC principles. A summary of our Communication  
on Progress can be found on our website.External Assurance of Environmental Data
FMC engaged ERM Certification and Verification Services 
to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2020 
environmental and safety data. Further details about our 
external assurance can be found on page 38 of the report.
Materiality 
The information and topics covered in this report were guided 
by our 2020 materiality assessment that was completed 
in accordance with GRI standards. This assessment was 
accomplished through surveys with stakeholders. Further 
details on this assessment and the materiality matrix can be 
found on page 5 of this report and our website.
Organizational Profile ................................. 2
2020 & 2021 Commitments ........................ 3
Progress on 2025/2030 Goals .................... 4
2020 Materiality Assessment ..................... 5
Q&A with Karen Totland,  
Vice President and  
Chief Sustainability Officer .......................... 6
Sustainability Governance ........................... 7People ......................................................... 8
Stakeholder Engagement 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Talent Management
Ethics and Compliance 
Safety
Community Engagement
Progress ................................................... 24
Innovation
FMC Ventures
Plant Health
Precision Agriculture
Diamides Portfolio
Global Specialty Solutions Planet ....................................................... 32
Product Stewardship
Our Environmental Footprint 
Remediation and Beneficial Reuse  
of our Legacy Sites
Assurance Statement ............................... 38
Board of Directors, Executive Leadership  
and FMC Officers ...................................... 39
UN Global Compact  
Communication on Progress .................... 40
Explore fmc.com/sustainability 
We invite you to visit our website for more 
information and data. You can explore the 
website to access FMC reports and videos related 
to our sustainability programs, as well as FMC 
policies and statements on several important 
topics including climate change, Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), human rights, 
supplier code of conduct and animal welfare.FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
FMC Corporation, an agricultural sciences company, provides innovative solutions to growers around the world with a robust product portfolio fueled by a market-driven discovery and 
development pipeline in crop protection, plant health and professional pest and turf management.
FMC REPORTING AND CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES 
The environmental and safety data in this report include all sites under FMC’s operational control in the 2020 calendar year as well as environmental data supplied by active ingredient 
contract manufacturers (except where noted). Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are reported in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
 
BILLIONREVENUE BY REGION  
2020 FY
24% 22%
31%23%ASIANORTH 
AMERICA
LATIN 
AMERICAEUROPE, 
MIDDLE EAST 
& AFRICA
2020 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
For the year ending December 31, 2020, FMC Corporation recorded the following results:
*Represents a non-GAAP financial term. Refer to our website for definitions and   
  reconciliations of non-GAAP terms to the most directly comparable GAAP term.$4.6
$4.22ANNUAL SALES  
(billions)
GAAP DILUTED 
EARNINGS  
Per Share$550.6
$6.19*GAAP NET INCOME  
(millions)
ADJUSTED DILUTED 
EARNINGS  
Per Share$1.25*
15.6 %*ADJUSTED EBITDA  
(billions)
RETURN ON  
INVESTED CAPITAL
$4.6
2
RESILIENT. READY.
2020 PROGRESS ON COMMITMENTS
2021 COMMITMENTSConduct an extensive shareholder outreach project to better understand 
how they assess FMC through an Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) lens.
Develop and introduce the sustainability brand to engage both internal 
and external stakeholders.
Start utilizing Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) 
chemical standard and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) framework for sustainability disclosures.
Summarize baseline Scope 3 GHG emissions for 2019 and externally 
report the information; determine where there are opportunities to 
refine the data and reduce the impact.
Develop a comprehensive renewable energy strategy.
Conduct a TCFD-aligned climate change scenario analysis to gain  
deeper insight into how climate change may impact our business  
over time. 
Complete pre-assurance of Scope 3 data to determine readiness for  
future assurance activities. 
Evaluate, enhance and expand global framework for philanthropic initiatives. Conduct biennial Materiality Assessment.
Develop life cycle assessments for Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active ingredients.
Incorporate sustainability in Capital Deployment Plan.
Measure our global logistics footprint to better understand and reduce our 
impacts and risks.
Develop a renewable energy strategy.
Gain further understanding of our suppliers’ sustainability programs.
completed in progressContinue to progress on practices and policies to increase female 
representation in our global workforce to 50 percent and Black and African 
American representation in our U.S. workforce to 14 percent across all job 
levels by 2027. 
Review environmental goals to be more aggressive, particularly on climate.
Increase engagement with external stakeholders around the safe and 
responsible use of our products.
3
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPROGRESS ON 2025/2030 GOALS
In 2019, we reset our sustainability goals to ensure we are a more sustainable company by 2025 and 2030. These goals encompass innovation, safety, community engagement, 
environmental metrics and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We consistently monitor our progress toward these goals and are challenging ourselves to set more aggressive 
targets. Below is our 2020 progress:
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
100% R&D spend 
on sustainably-  
advantaged products 25%Sustain 2018 
Intensity100
on the Community 
Engagement Index<0.1 Total 
Recordable Incident  
Rate (TRIR)
97% 12.8 % 15.3 % 3.5 % 19.6 % 82 0.082030 GOALS (compared to 2018 Baseline) 2025 GOALS
ENERGY  
INTENSITYGHG  
EMISSIONS  
INTENSITYWASTE  
DISPOSED  
INTENSITYWATER USE  
INTENSITY  
at high risk locations
FMC Initiatives:
Products that increase crop yields 
Products that ensure a quality food supply
Technologies that contribute to resilient agricultural practicesFMC Initiatives:
Technologies that save water and fuel and reduce GHG emissions and soil compaction
Products that increase crop yields thus preserving land from being converted  
to farmland
Targeted and low application products
Biological products
Continued commitment to R&D spending on developing sustainable productsINNOVATIONCOMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENTSAFETY
SDG 2  
Zero HungerSDG 15  
Life on Land
2020 PROGRESS 2020 PROGRESS (compared to 2018 Baseline)
2020 PROGRESS TOWARD THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ( SDGs )25% 20%
4
RESILIENT. READY.
2020 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
2020 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
FMC 2020 MATERIALITY MATRIX  
Topic Importance vs. Impact
3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.503.504.50
4.25
4.00
3.75Importance to stakeholders when assessing FMC
FMC’ s impact on society, economies and ecosystems
Public policy & advocacy Global food security
Emergency management
Waste & effluent management 
Biodiversity conservation Climate change mitigation 
Resilience planning Employee engagementProduct safety  
& stewardship
Stakeholder  
engagement Human 
rights Process safety 
Diversity, equity 
& inclusionSustainable  
innovationEmployee safety  
& well-being 
Air quality
Smallholder farmers Supplier sustainability Environmental remediation 
Community 
relations Water stewardshipFMC’S INTERACTIONS WITH 
STAKEHOLDERS
FMC’S INTERACTIONS WITH 
GLOBAL ECOSYSTEMS
INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY 
INTO FMC BUSINESS STRATEGY
Significantly materialHighly material
Moderately materialThe results of our materiality assessment, which identifies sustainability topics of most 
importance for our business based on inclusive stakeholder feedback, are indicated in the 
matrix to the right. This assessment was completed in accordance with GRI standards.
The assessment was conducted via online surveys with internal and external stakeholders. 
Internal stakeholders included employees from all major functions, including operations, 
sales, regulatory affairs and research and development, among others. External 
stakeholders included customers, investors, consultants and representatives from 
academia, government, trade associations and non-governmental organizations. 
We analyzed 22 potential material topics based on GRI, SASB, United Nations Global 
Compact and other expert recommendations. Respondents were asked to rate topics  
on a scale of 1-5 based on two dimensions: 
The importance to the stakeholder when assessing FMC (Y-axis) 
FMC’ s impact on societies, economies and/or ecosystems (X-axis),  
as per GRI recommendations 
Based on the results of the assessment, as well as additional analyses conducted across 
participant responses, we have identified six core material issues that will help inform 
the development of FMC’s sustainability strategy and reporting going forward. Three of 
the six – innovation, stewardship and safety – are foundational to FMC’s business and 
work with growers across the globe. The remaining three – climate, biodiversity and food 
security – are areas where we see opportunities to take bigger, bolder steps to affect 
positive change related to some of the world’s most urgent challenges. More detailed 
information on this strategy will be included in future reports.
5
Q&A with Karen Totland,  
Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer
Looking ahead five to 10 years, 
what does success look like for 
Sustainability at FMC?
We want to be part of the solution to some 
of the world’s most urgent challenges 
– climate change, food security, social 
and racial inequity – for example. We 
have an opportunity and an obligation 
to look outside our walls at the stresses 
on our planet and population and seize 
opportunities to drive positive change. Our 
focus on sustainable agriculture contributes 
meaningful solutions that impact many 
United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals, such as Climate Action, No Poverty, 
and Reduced Inequalities, in addition to Zero Hunger and Life on Land, which we are 
committed to today. 
What do you believe is fundamental to achieving success?  
What must FMC get right?
First and foremost, our ESG impact must be fundamentally aligned with FMC’s core 
purpose and commitment to delivering products and solutions that protect crops while 
benefiting the environment and contributing to a more resilient and sustainable food 
system. Sustainable innovation is a big part of this. As regulatory thresholds become 
more stringent, we must develop new products that have less impact on soil, water, air 
and non-target organisms than other products in the market. 
At the same time, our commitment must extend beyond simply providing products and 
services. We also need to foster meaningful engagement with growers around the world 
to assure the sustainability of their land and livelihoods. If we are to grow well as a global 
company, we must do it together with our customers, employees and communities. Is there anything else you are focused on in the short-term?
Since we established the new, expanded Sustainability organization, we have focused on 
understanding and evaluating the most material ESG issues for FMC. We want to be more 
intentional about where we direct our sustainability efforts to maximize impact and create 
the most value for all our stakeholders. 
For example, reducing FMC’s environmental footprint is an area we know is critical to 
our stakeholders and business. We continue to build on the progress we have made on 
our environmental goals while also building a strategy to further reduce greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions that are in line with 
efforts to limit global warming to well 
below 2°C. Looking externally, we 
also see tremendous opportunity to 
partner more closely with customers 
and growers around the world to 
develop climate solutions together. 
Agriculture has enormous capacity  
to shift the trajectory of climate 
change - and we are working to 
harness that capacity while sustainably 
increasing agricultural productivity.
Another topic vital to agriculture is biodiversity. We are looking closely at issues related to 
biodiversity loss and identifying not only where we currently have a positive impact, but 
also new areas of opportunity. These could come from our own innovation capabilities, 
unique technologies or external partnerships, to promote healthy soil, protect beneficial 
insects and conserve natural resources that help biodiversity thrive. 
FMC reset its sustainability goals in 2019, but since then the 
landscape has changed and there are increased calls for 
companies to adopt more stringent climate goals (science-based 
targets, net-zero emissions, etc.). How is FMC adapting to this?
One of the challenges for our growing company is to continue reducing our 
environmental footprint in absolute terms, rather than just focusing on “intensities” 
which are calculated on a per unit basis. In order to mitigate climate change, it is 
“Looking externally, we also see 
tremendous opportunity to partner 
more closely with customers and 
growers around the world to develop 
climate solutions together.”
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT6RESILIENT. READY.
the absolute decrease in GHGs that really matter and everyone needs to do 
their share. So, we are challenging ourselves to set more aggressive targets, 
developing a plan to procure more renewable energy sources and reduce our 
company-wide energy consumption. 
How has COVID-19 changed your  
perspective on sustainability? 
COVID-19 has made the unimaginable imaginable – from the global chaos and 
disruption it has caused to the incredible speed with which scientists developed 
highly effective vaccines. Like many sustainability efforts, the rapid vaccine 
development is a great example of what can be accomplished when individuals, 
private institutions, corporations and governments work together toward a 
common goal. I also think the pandemic has served as a wake-up call for many 
industries as it highlighted the fragility of the global supply chain and the urgency 
of strengthening our global food systems. Thriving food systems are critical to 
the health and well-being of everyone on the planet. As a leading agricultural 
sciences company, we have an important role to play in that.
What are some personal commitments that you  
are making related to environmental stewardship?
As Chief Sustainability Officer, it’s important that I ‘walk the talk’ and that my 
personal actions are aligned with the goals we are trying to achieve for the 
organization. For example, I am committed to evaluating and reducing my own 
environmental footprint. I live close enough to work that I walk to the office  
every day, which is good for the planet and great for my health! My partner and 
I have also been mindful of our waste generation by registering for an urban 
composting program and committing to reduce single use plastics at home.  
We have even lowered our water consumption by using rain barrels to collect 
rain from the roof which we use to water our plants. This also contributes to 
stormwater management in the city of Philadelphia.SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
FMC’s Board of Director’s Sustainability Committee is tasked with overseeing and 
evaluating the effectiveness of FMC’s sustainability strategy to ensure it continues to 
create value and deliver real impact for the company and society. The Committee reviews 
and provides guidance to management on FMC’s sustainability initiatives including those 
relating to its environmental and social impact, climate change, community engagement 
and diversity and inclusion. The Committee meets four times a year.
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL
The Executive Sustainability Council meets four times a year to review progress on goals, 
new initiatives, commitments and challenges. It recommends actions, as necessary, 
to ensure continuous performance improvement and alignment with constituent 
expectations (both internal and external).
OFFICE OF THE CSO
The new Office of the CSO will bring greater focus and direction to our sustainability 
efforts around the world, driving meaningful change across the company and supporting 
global initiatives to address some of the world’s most urgent challenges. There are five 
key functions that report to the Chief Sustainability Officer:
EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY COUNCIL
FMC’s External Sustainability Advisory Council, initiated in November 2017, provides 
perspectives and objectivity to our sustainability strategy. Members of the Council are leaders 
in agriculture, energy, water, academia and environmental issues. Council meetings are 
held twice a year and have focused on topics such as sustainably-advantaged innovation, 
sustainability goals, materiality, diversity and inclusion, issues management strategy, 
product stewardship and stakeholder engagement.
Government  
and Industry 
AffairsProduct 
StewardshipDiversity  
and InclusionCorporate 
SustainabilitySustainability 
Communications, 
Engagement and 
Philanthropy7
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
When the people around us thrive, so do we. To truly grow well as a 
company, we must do it together. From our employees to the wider 
community, our goal is to create an inclusive and safe environment 
where all of us can thrive. 
RESILIENT. READY.“
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Stakeholder engagement is an integral part of the way we do business. We regularly work 
with different stakeholder groups on initiatives and topics important to our global community.
Our full stakeholder engagement reference table is listed on our website. This table lists 
our major stakeholder groups, channels of engagement and key topics covered. Below 
are some examples of our engagement outcomes in 2020. 
Customers
SUPPORTING SMALLHOLDER FARMERS 
FMC in Indonesia expanded its 
collaboration with the Australia-Indonesia 
Partnership for Promoting Rural Incomes 
through Support for Markets in Agriculture 
(AIP-PRISMA) to include additional 
provinces, crop varieties and products. 
The partnership, which began in 2017, is 
an agricultural development project between the two governments to increase smallholder 
farmers’ competitiveness and access to new markets and technology. AIP-PRISMA and FMC 
work together on field activities, joint-market research and capacity building.
Joint events between FMC and AIP-PRISMA have engaged more than 8,500 farmers 
across the country. Determined to exceed these numbers and driven by COVID-19 
restrictions on large farmer gatherings, FMC in Indonesia reached out to farmers through 
its digital platforms, inviting customers to attend the online events. A Facebook® Live 
Farmers Field Day conducted in June drew more than 56,000 views in just 48 hours.
Investors
We engaged with many of our shareholders to discuss environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) topics. In January 2020, we held multiple board outreach calls (representing 
approximately 45 percent of our shareholders) and also organized an ESG roadshow with 
investors later in the year. Investors were interested in our sustainability assessment tool and 
the ways FMC is using innovation to improve the company’s ESG position. We also received 
valuable feedback that drove us to make meaningful improvements in our data analysis 
and reporting. As an outcome of these meetings, FMC began to utilize the SASB and TCFD 
frameworks for sustainability disclosures and committed to conducting a Climate Change 
Scenario Analysis Assessment in line with TCFD recommendations in 2021. In November, FMC conducted an Investor Technology Update where leaders shared FMC’s 
sustainability commitments, introduced the new Office of the CSO and provided an 
overview of FMC’s technology portfolio, including the sustainability profile of our precision 
agriculture solutions and key products in our R&D pipeline. 
Employees
In August 2020, FMC launched an internal  
sustainability tagline – Grow Well, Together –  
to underscore our commitment to growing well 
as individuals, as teams, as members of our local 
communities and as a global company.
The sustainability team 
developed monthly educational 
emails, a sustainability-themed 
family activity booklet and hosted 
a webinar titled ‘Introduction to 
Sustainable Agriculture’ to initiate 
a dialogue with employees 
about FMC’s efforts to advance 
sustainable agriculture. 
An example of FMC in Indonesia and AIP-PRISMA 
online events during COVID-19 restrictions.We have set a high bar in sustainability, with new targets that further reduce our 
environmental footprint, improve our industry-leading safety performance and commit 
more R&D spending—100 percent—on developing technologies that are better for the 
planet than current products in the market. 
We are looking beyond environmental targets by broadening investments in Social 
and Governance areas, including Diversity and Inclusion, racial and gender equity, 
transparency and risk management, to name a few. ” 
Mark Douglas 
Investor Technology Update, November 2020
9
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ( D&I )
SEE YOURSELF IN FMC, BE YOURSELF IN FMC
At FMC, our position on Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is clear. We embrace it, celebrate it 
and help it flourish at our locations around the world. Our company’s success comes from 
the unique voices and viewpoints of people from different backgrounds, nationalities, 
race/ethnicities, genders, sexual orientations, gender identities, disabilities, professional 
capabilities and other diversity dimensions. FMC is better, stronger and more successful 
due to the collective wisdom and perspectives that come from 6,200 people at more 
than 100 sites worldwide.
We have made strong progress on D&I over the past several years, reshaping policies, 
training our leaders and engaging our employees in meaningful dialogue to build 
awareness, understanding and a culture of inclusion. 
2020 was a reckoning for companies, customers, investors, employees and the world 
at large to demand meaningful change. Throughout the year we experienced multiple 
generation-defining events that exposed systemic racism and gross inequity in our society. 
To address and solve these complex problems take leadership, listening and real action.
At FMC, we believe we have a role to play in creating greater fairness, equity and 
opportunity in our workplace, in the communities where we operate and in broader 
society. Together, we will continue to advance our D&I strategy to ensure FMC and all of 
us are doing our part.FMC at a Glance
2020 FMC TOTAL WORKFORCE  
By Region + Gender
WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT   
(Grade 25+)
A full list of publicly available metrics are available in the data section on our website.Our total workforce includes 6,192 full-time regular employees as of December 31, 2020.
2018
2019
2020
28%
32%
34%ENGAGING LEADERS AND EMPLOYEES  
ON EQUITY AND RACE
In 2020, FMC organized a series of RACE (Raising Authentic Conversation on Equity) 
Ahead Webinars. The first session focused on listening and learning about the 
experiences of others while later sessions allowed space for employees to talk with one 
another about race and everyone’s role in creating an inclusive workplace and supporting 
diversity, equity and inclusion. Over 1,500 employees attended these sessions. FEMALES MALES33%
67%
EMEA
25%
75%
ASIA  
PACIFIC27%
73%
LATIN  
AMERICA36%
64%
NORTH  
AMERICA30%
70%
GLOBAL
70%10
New Representation Goals
In 2020, we set two long-term goals to ensure we are 
building a more diverse workforce by expanding our 
reach and removing barriers that have disproportionately 
impacted marginalized and underrepresented groups. 
These goals have been included as a key performance 
indicator for senior leadership in the organization. Annual 
progress against them will be included in future reports.
GOAL BLACK/AFRICAN AMERICAN 
REPRESENTATION FEMALE  
REPRESENTATION
Achieve 14% 
representation
in the U.S.  
workforce by 2027
Diversity Task Forces 
To hold ourselves accountable and ensure progress toward our race and gender equity goals, we established two diversity task forces. These task forces are led by FMC officers and 
consist of cross functional teams from various levels of the organization.PROGRESS AS OF 2020
9%
PROGRESS AS OF 2020
30%GOAL 
Achieve 50% 
representation
in the global  
workforce by 2027
Established monthly Gender and Race Equity Scorecard to track  
progress and analyze trends relevant to representation goals
Conducted Female Exit Overview analyzing 2020 exits by age group,  
tenure and grade to determine areas of focus for retention
Established global themes on gender equity for operations around 
leadership, recruiting and retention
Performed global analysis of prospective opportunities and challenges  
to female hiring and retention in operations by region and country
2020 ACTIONS FOR GENDER EQUITY  
AND SOCIAL JUSTICE AND  
RACE EQUITY TASK FORCES
RESILIENT. READY.2027 GOAL 2027 GOAL
Established company-wide requirement of diverse candidate slates and 
diverse interview panels
Established partnership with Mathison as a resource to advance efforts  
to increase the diversity of our applicant pool
Expanded the Talent Acquisition team to recruit diverse candidates for  
the U.S. 11FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Employee Resource Groups
In 2020, we continued to expand and grow our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to better support the needs of our organization.  
Below is a list of our ERGs with a spotlight on The Bridge, FMC’s multicultural ERG. 
Mission: To showcase and provide a community for the various 
ethnic cultures across FMC, which in turn help recruit and 
retain talent. To bring cultural awareness to the FMC workforce 
in regions where we operate and to provide insight into best 
practices when working with various cultures.2020 Bridge event highlights:
Black History Month 2020 Keynote: Lasella L. Hall, Associate Director of Frederick 
Douglass Unity House with panel discussion – “Conversations about Race and 
Black Identity in the Workplace”
Launch of Employees for Black Excellence (EBEx) Subgroup
Launch of Asian Zone Network Subgroup (AZN)
Personal Branding Workshop
Support Anti-Racism Listening Sessions
Mission: To increase the visibility 
of LGBTQ+ issues within FMC 
through education and awareness 
initiatives. Encourage fellowship, 
thoughtful dialogue and an inclusive 
understanding of LGBTQ+ identity 
through formal and informal 
interaction and engagement with the 
FMC community at large.Mission: To leverage multi-generational 
differences and commonalities for 
personal and professional growth 
to attract and retain talent that 
enhances FMC’s strength in D&I in 
the marketplace. Thereby, the iGen 
Network will serve to develop, connect 
and empower employees from all 
generations to have a voice and 
cultivate leadership within FMC.
Mission: To create a D&I culture 
within Cork Shared Services centered 
on core values and commitment to 
inclusion and excellence.Mission: To foster an environment that 
supports FMC employees and their 
families who have a disability. The VIVID 
network strives to raise awareness 
about the unique needs and talents 
of individuals living with disabilities 
and helps to ensure all employees 
and partners are accepted, valued and 
treated fairly in all communities.
Mission: To promote veterans, family 
and friends of the military in their 
careers at FMC and to help FMC 
recruit and retain employees who are 
veterans. It will also provide members 
a way to engage, collaborate and learn 
from others with shared experiences.
12
Mission: To raise the profile of 
women at FMC encouraging well-
being, education, development and 
networking in the workplace.
Screenshots of events organized by the EBEx and AZN subgroups
12
RESILIENT. READY.
Creating an Inclusive Workplace 
Beyond creating a diverse workforce, we are also committed to ensuring that every 
employee feels comfortable bringing their whole self to work. We design activities and 
initiatives that encourage all of our employees to feel involved, engaged and educated on 
issues of diversity and inclusion.
INCLUSION MONTH
FMC dedicates the month of October to the awareness, education and engagement 
of its employees around all dimensions of D&I, globally. More than 4,600 employees 
participated in eight global events and over 20 regional events.
2020 Highlights:
Global keynote addresses featuring Linda Sarsour (Activist and Co-founder of the 
first Muslim online organizing platform, MPower Change) and Winona LaDuke 
(Environmentalist and Executive Director, Honor the Earth). Both women shared 
their personal stories of fighting for racial and environmental justice.
Global activities including:
Understanding Autism Webinar – A caregiver’s perspective that focused on 
topics such as signs and symptoms, causes, testing, diagnosis and how all 
of us can help support someone with autism and their caregivers
National Coming Out Day – Webinar on recognizing LGBTQ+ stereotyping 
and how stereotypes in the media impact the LGBTQ+ communityREGIONAL INCLUSION COUNCILS 
We currently operate three regional inclusion councils that help support 
and translate the global D&I strategy into regional action. These councils 
are sponsored by executive leaders and co-chaired by business leaders 
and human resources leaders. Initiatives undertaken in 2020 include 
establishment of a comprehensive toolkit for supporting those living 
with disabilities (Asia Pacific) and programming on topics such as 
multiculturalism, generational differences and gender (Latin America).
Women’ s Leadership Panel –  
A discussion with the women in FMC’s 
Operating Committee on gender equity, 
career growth, navigating workplace 
culture and comfort zones
Navigating Cybersecurity: Through the Lens of Diversity – A panel on the 
journey of four women in various stages of their career as they navigate 
through the cybersecurity industry
Doing the Gender Dance at Work – An employee’s presentation about their 
own journey of discovering what it means to be queer and gender fluid
Top Chef FMC Cooking Competition – Collected employees’ favorite 
recipes and stories of how the food represents them and their culture
Women’s Leadership Panel 
13
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN: 100 ON CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX
For the second year in a row, FMC received a score of 100 percent on the Human 
Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2021 Corporate Equality Index, the nation’s premier 
benchmarking survey and report measuring corporate policies and practices 
related to LGBTQ workplace equality. INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY KEYNOTE  
FEATURING REBECCA SHAMBAUGH 
Disruptive Times Call for Great Leadership – The Door is Open and  
it is Time for Women to Walk Through and Take the Lead!
Best-selling author, internationally recognized speaker and thought leader on gender 
equity, Rebecca Shambaugh, empowered FMC employees by sharing her research and 
experience coaching hundreds of women leaders. In her keynote, she shared the top 
attributes, behaviors and actions women can take for being resilient and reaching their 
full potential while bringing greater value and change to their teams and organizations.INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY 2021
Since the early 20th century, people worldwide have recognized the efforts, impact 
and achievements of women during the month of March. In partnership with FMC’s 
Women’s Initiative Network (WIN) ERG, our company joined in the global celebration 
by raising awareness on the need for gender equity. Among other activities, FMC 
recognized the remarkable women in our organization and men who advocate for 
gender equity through the Women Who Rock and Men Advocating Real Change 
(MARC) awards.FMC AND NUTRIEN DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PARTNERSHIP 
In 2020, FMC partnered with Nutrien Ag Solutions, a valued FMC customer, to 
launch Nutrien’s D&I program in Australia. Both FMC and Nutrien share a vision 
for greater diversity within their teams. At the launch event for this partnership, 
representatives from the national Nutrien network and FMC employees shared 
personal experiences of challenge and triumph, career advice from women 
leaders and ideas for how to better support diversity. Both Nutrien and FMC have 
committed to progressively support, strengthen and improve diversity across their 
businesses as well as foster many more opportunities for women in Australian 
Agriculture. Nutrien launched a mentorship and regional networking program 
internally across its Australia 
workforce. Senior female leaders 
from across FMC, including Kathy 
Shelton, Vice President and Chief 
Technology Officer, Bethwyn 
Todd, FMC Asia President and 
Kristina Hermanson, Managing 
Director, FMC ANZ, signed on 
to participate in the program as 
speakers and mentors. 
BRAZIL LAUNCHES DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AMBASSADORS PROGRAM
FMC in Brazil launched a D&I Ambassadors Program to promote and deepen 
conversations about diversity with our customers and distributors. Throughout July, 
19 D&I Ambassadors from FMC underwent training on D&I issues, opportunities 
and connection to our business and customers. Through this initiative, we are 
strengthening our partnership with 
our customers and distributors 
and driving progress on our own 
journey to create a diverse and 
inclusive workplace.
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
14
RESILIENT. READY.
“LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
With the postponement of in-person 
leadership programs in 2020 due to 
the global pandemic, FMC employees 
who were selected for our annual 
Science of Leadership (for future/
new people managers) and Art of 
Leadership (for experienced people 
managers) participants were given 
the opportunity to attend Managing 
for Success – an optional precursor 
training to the planned 2021 in-
person programs. This program was 
designed to develop FMC’s leaders 
to their fullest capabilities by learning 
about leadership skills and FMC’s best 
practices for recruiting, growing and 
rewarding its employees. 
DISCOVER LEARNING SERIES 
The DISCOVER Learning Series is a monthly, global 
presentation given by FMC employees for FMC employees 
that spotlights educational business topics such as personal 
branding, virtual meetings, sustainability and communication 
strategies. In addition to strengthening team members’ 
business acumen and capabilities outside of their respective 
roles, the Series builds connectedness and a sense of 
community across our global organization.
Upon the transition to working from home due to COVID-19, employees expressed an 
interest in more virtual learning. In 2020, the DISCOVER Learning Series delivered nearly 
double the number of virtual presentations from the previous year. 2020 topics ranged 
from leading in turbulent times to organizing effective virtual meetings, improving 
communication, introduction to sustainable agriculture and personal branding. TALENT MANAGEMENT 
Employees are FMC’s most valuable asset. We are committed to empowering our people 
to develop their skills in line with their career aspirations. Over the past year, we have 
focused on growing our talent management platform and programs. 
Learning and Development
Fostering a development-focused culture is vital to our employees’ and our company’s 
future growth. As part of this, we refreshed our strategy to focus on three pillars – 
learning, leadership and agile performance. We strive to create rich, experiential learning 
opportunities for all employees, supported by formal training programs and eLearning.  
In 2020, we piloted an eLearning solution, which will be rolled out globally in 2021. 
Following is a selection of key learning and development programs we conducted in 2020. 2020 Highlights:
Embarked on an HR modernization program that includes updating and 
optimizing our talent processes through an integrated technology platform. 
With this platform, we aim to simplify the hire to retire processes, improve 
the employee experience through self-service features and support data-
driven decisions through improved workforce analytics. The roll-out will 
occur in two phases with the first phase going live in 2021.
Completed the global roll-out of Interview for Success, our standard 
global guide for ensuring our interview process integrates FMC’s core 
competencies and values and reduces bias in the interview and selection 
process. In 2021, we will implement a global Applicant Tracking System (ATS) 
which will enable further consistency in our recruiting practices.
In North America, we moved from a recruitment process outsourcing model to 
in-house recruiters supplemented by carefully selected partners. This allows 
us to better communicate our brand to potential applicants, access diverse 
talent pools, build talent pipelines and thus attract the best talent to FMC. 
“As organizations manage  
an increasingly diverse,  
multi-generational workforce,  
and remote work becomes more 
common, leaders need to know 
how to adapt and respond to new 
challenges while continuing to build 
on their leadership skills. I found 
this series to be a really great way of 
continuing to build self-awareness 
and developing these skills. I definitely 
recommend it to both new and 
seasoned leaders. ” 
Keith Quiney 
Head of Operations, ANZ
15
DEVELOPING FUTURE LEADERS
In 2020, FMC continued to partner with Cristo Rey Philadelphia 
High School, a Philadelphia-based school that offers 
economically disadvantaged students access to a high-quality 
college preparatory education. FMC sponsors the school’s 
work-study program, in which 16 students come to FMC 
once per week to work in various departments. Each student 
is supervised by an FMC employee and gains experience 
in a professional work setting. The work study program helps each student fund a 
substantial portion of the cost of their education. The experience not only enriches the 
perspective of the students but also the perspective of our employees by connecting 
them more directly to the community in which we operate. The Cristo Rey model’s 
success is impressive – 100 percent of Cristo Rey graduates have been admitted to a 
four-year college. In 2020, due to the global pandemic, the students joined FMC virtually 
to participate in two consultancy projects: Wellness in the Workplace and Working 
with Millennials and Gen Z. The Wellness study highlighted the importance of mental 
health and stress management. When working with Millennials and Gen Z, the students 
recommended continuous feedback and recognizing the importance of technology in 
communication for these generations.
FMC also continued its partnership with Drexel University through 
the University’s cooperative (co-op) program in which students 
alternate classes with full-time employment. Students across 
different areas of study join FMC for six-month co-op terms and 
receive practical experience to enrich their classroom theory. In 
spring of 2020, FMC welcomed a cohort of 24 co-op students, 
and in the fall of 2020, FMC welcomed an additional cohort of 17 
students. These students worked in areas as diverse as Finance, Marketing, Engineering, 
Procurement, Legal and Sustainability. While the students normally work from FMC’s 
headquarters in Philadelphia, in 2020, the co-op program transitioned to operating 
remotely. Students participated in virtual orientation sessions and FMC-sponsored 
events, and continued to carry out impactful work while interacting with FMC leaders 
and employees. At the end of the semester, co-op students present their work to FMC 
leaders. We are proud to support students in our community and in recent years have 
hired graduating students as full-time employees in procurement, internal controls, 
finance and engineering.SUPPORTING EMPLOYEES THROUGH A CHALLENGING YEAR
As the pandemic took hold throughout the world, FMC was committed to providing 
additional support to employees as they juggled new caregiving responsibilities at home. 
Initiatives included:
Expansion and increased marketing of our Employee Assistance program in the U.S. 
to include COVID-19 specific support. Utilization for the year was 8.7 percent of the 
total employee population, which was above the provider’ s average (4-6 percent)
Frequent communications from the benefits team with COVID-19 related 
information and resources
Development of new support groups such as the Working Parents and  
Caregivers Resource group
Development of new flexible work policies including additional days off  
for dependent care needs
Additional communications on how to use Dependent Care Flexible  
Spending accounts
Increased dialogue with employees to better understand their needs during  
the pandemic
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
16ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
In 2020, FMC upheld its longstanding commitment to ethics and compliance – driving a 
global compliance culture, growing risk-based compliance programs at both the global 
and regional levels, updating policies, enhancing various compliance processes and 
engaging employees in conversations and activities related to ethics and compliance. 
Enterprise-level system changes contributed substantially to the continuous improvement of 
FMC’s compliance processes and controls. FMC’s SAP implementation, which included a new 
and fully integrated global trade compliance system, introduced additional controls, automated 
workflows and overall governance mechanisms to build even greater transparency at the 
transactional level. The FMC Ethics Response Line also underwent a series of enhancements 
(with more planned for 2021), including a mobile phone report submission capability. 
Employee engagement is a core part of maintaining FMC’s culture of integrity. In 
addition to our quarterly ethics and compliance newsletter, “E + C = FMC, ” FMC led 
several awareness campaigns on topics such as ethical behavior and corporate culture, 
insider trading and trade compliance. To reinforce key concepts, all FMC employees 
were required to take a micro-training course, “Our Code of Conduct: Navigating the 
Workplace, ” which reviewed ethical issues employees may encounter in the workplace 
and what to do about them. New employees were also onboarded with ethics and 
compliance training, including topics such as FMC’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, 
FMC ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE AWARD WINNERS
The Ethics and Compliance Achievement Awards recognize employees who make significant compliance-related contributions and are champions of good behavior at FMC. The 2020 winners were:
North America
ROBERT ALBRIGHT
For setting a strong example of ethical leadership and 
consistently exhibiting ethical behaviors in North America.Asia Pacific
EUFROSINA MERCADO
For demonstrating high ethical standards in her projects, 
such as implementing warehousing guidelines, improving 
inventory records and streamlining documentation for 
consignment imports to ensure seamless goods clearance.Europe, Middle East and Africa
BIRGITTE HILLIGSØE LISBY  
& LENE LUNDHUS
For their leadership of the BREXIT –  
UK/EU REACH compliance program.  
In a very short time frame, they ensured 
legislation requirements were met and 
found innovative solutions to minimize 
business disruption.Latin America
FABIO MARQUES
For assuming the role of an Ethics and Compliance 
Ambassador and being instrumental in reinforcing 
messaging and training regarding ethics and compliance.Asia Pacific
MUHAMMAD HASHIM
For setting a strong “tone at the top” and prioritizing 
various compliance-related objectives in Pakistan.
RESILIENT. READY.Data Security, Human Rights, and Diversity and Inclusion. The awareness materials were 
available in many languages and shared with the global FMC audience. 
Around the world, FMC’s regional teams launched additional compliance initiatives to 
complement and enhance the global program. For example, on FMC’s 2020 “Compliance Day” 
in Brazil, the team worked with an external motivational speaker to deliver powerful compliance 
messages on fair competition, respect for people and avoiding conflicts of interest. FMC 
also achieved tremendous compliance growth in Asia Pacific, launching several new culture 
initiatives (including E&C music videos) and implementing a new compliance structure called 
the “Evolving Circle, ” which is risk-based and founded on continuous improvement principles. 
Launched in the fourth quarter, 
“Pulling Back the Curtain, An 
Inside Look at the FMC Ethics 
Office, ” introduced the FMC 
Ethics Office and provided  
insight into how compliance-related internal reporting and investigation processes 
are managed. Spotlight articles featured team members and highlighted the reporting 
processes, policies and procedures that support the FMC Ethics Office.“PULLING BACK THE 
CURTAIN” ON THE 
ETHICS OFFICEMichael Reilly
Executive Vice President, General Counsel,  
Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer
Can you describe your role in the Ethics Office?  
As Chief Compliance Officer, I am ultimately responsible for managing the Ethics 
Office and ensuring that our employees understand the importance of the Code in 
doing their work, and to oversee investigations of matters that come to the Office.
What is the Corporate Responsibility Committee’s role?  
The CRC provides top management oversight, including from our CEO, to oversee 
the ethics and compliance program and any serious allegations of violations of the 
Code or the law. 17SAFETY
Despite significant challenges due to COVID-19, our manufacturing facilities 
around the world continued to operate safely to ensure growers received the 
critical crop protection products they need. In the early days of the pandemic, we 
swiftly instituted protective protocols and alternate work schedules. Employees 
working remotely continued to receive information and resources to promote 
safe work environments and behaviors. During an unprecedented time of 
uncertainty and distraction for all employees, we are proud that we surpassed  
our 2025 goal and achieved our lowest TRIR rate of the past seven years.
SAFETY COMMENDATION FROM THE INDIAN GOVERNMENT 
For its efforts in advocating a culture of safe use of pesticides among farmers, FMC in India  
received a letter of appreciation from the Director of Agriculture in Maharashtra. 
An excerpt from the commendation letter:
“The Department of Agriculture appreciates your company’ s good work and the endless hours of service that you have dedicated…  
we appreciate your field staff doing work with a positive attitude and the ability to motivate farmers through these awareness programs 
that promote safety measures for spraying of pesticides, especially during this crucial phase of the COVID-19 pandemic. ”
FMC in India teamed up with Maharashtra State government officials and the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) to conduct an 
extensive product safety campaign. As part of the campaign, FMC’s safety awareness mobile van team trained 9,000 farmers from 280 villages on  
correct pesticide application techniques. The team also distributed 2,000 personal protection equipment kits to farmers and farm workers.2020 SAFETY PERFORMANCE 
<0.1 Total 
Recordable Incident  
Rate (TRIR)2025 GOAL 
2014
 2015
 2016
 2017
 2018
 2019
 2020
TRIR
.08 .11 .13.51 .51
.22.18
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCOVID-19 Response
COVID-19 CORPORATE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT TEAM
In early 2020, when COVID-19 was largely localized to Asia Pacific (APAC), FMC’s 
cross-functional COVID-19 Corporate Incident Management Team (CIMT) quickly 
mobilized and began meeting daily with APAC’s leadership and local incident 
management teams. The region instituted daily temperature screenings, 
symptom checks and travel questionnaires for anyone arriving at an FMC facility.
Simultaneously, Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) were reviewed, updated, 
or drafted for each site. These plans focused on employee health and safety, 
including but not limited to protocols on personal protective equipment 
(PPE) requirements, social distancing, modification of operator stations, 
routine disinfection of operator stations and common areas and procedures 
for employees who may have been exposed to or infected with the virus. 
Importantly, PPE needs for each site were evaluated based on a three-month 
projection to ensure the sites had what they needed without pulling critical 
resources from healthcare professionals and other first responders. 
As protocols continued to evolve, employees received frequent updates, and 
to maintain key customer contacts, sought out innovative solutions on new 
communication platforms that allowed safe, productive interaction.
18RESILIENT. READY.
The CIMT later expanded the core team to include participants from each region, allowing 
all sites to develop proactive BCPs in advance of a significant outbreak. Manufacturing 
sites also held roundtable sessions to learn from one another and improve their approach 
to managing the spread of the disease. 
Ultimately, once COVID-19 became a global issue, each FMC site around the world 
adopted similar procedures and safety measures based on a series of guidelines 
established by the CIMT. These guidelines continue providing the framework for each  
site to manage COVID-19-related safety topics such as: 
Appropriate PPE 
Cleaning and disinfecting best practices 
Managing suspected or confirmed cases and quarantining timetables 
Indicators and procedures for safely returning employees to on-site work 
Travel restrictions 
SH!ELDS UP!
In early 2021, FMC launched Sh!elds Up! – a weekly campaign that provided all employees 
essential information and science-based education on COVID-19 vaccines and ongoing 
safety precautions. As a science-based company, we are promoting the COVID-19  
vaccine to the greatest extent possible. Our Sh!elds Up! campaign tagline reminds us  
the vaccine is “For Yourself. For Your Coworkers. For Your Community.”Emergency Response System
FMC has emergency response programs in place to safely manage an emergency at any 
facility. There are a few standards each site is required to update and maintain independently: 
Environmental, Health and Safety Incident Reporting Standard – Provides a 
requirement for all FMC sites to report, categorize and perform the appropriate level 
of incident investigation for all incidents. It includes procedures to report injury, illness, 
process safety, environmental incidents or other crisis incidents. The standard applies 
to FMC employees, contractors and visitors while at company operated sites, FMC 
employees and contractors while conducting FMC business at alternate locations, 
FMC operated equipment and company owned property or products while in transit. 
Corporate Incident Management Standard – Establishes a framework for managing 
incidents at a site. This standard creates two levels of response for sites, depending 
on the criticality of the incident. Level 1 response requires engagement of the 
Corporate Incident Management Team (CIMT) to manage issues and provide direction 
to the sites via a Local Incident Management Team (LIMT). Level 2 response puts 
the CIMT in a support role, allowing the LIMT to manage the incident. This standard, 
along with regulatory requirements, determine required Standard Operating 
Procedures that are developed for every FMC facility. 
Process Safety Management Standard – Establishes requirements for sites to prevent 
fires, explosions and unintended releases from manufacturing processes. The standard 
requires sites to develop emergency action plans to identify site hazards and mitigation 
procedures for various scenarios. These plans must include roles and responsibilities, 
reporting requirements, training and periodic emergency drills. Additionally, the standard 
requires an incident investigation for all Process Safety Category 1, 2 and 3 events using 
‘Root Cause Analysis’ methods and communication of findings to site personnel.RESPONSIBLE CARE® OUTSTANDING  
COVID-19 RESPONSE AWARD 
FMC received the ACC’s Responsible Care® Outstanding COVID-19 Response Efforts 
award. This award was given to companies that minimized employee exposure to 
COVID-19 while providing contributions to assist local communities and value chain 
stakeholders. We experienced zero  community transmission cases at our facilities while 
manufacturing sites operated at the full production plan. We also developed innovative 
platforms to virtually connect FMC employees to farmers and retailers, such as virtual 
field days, online advisory services and live stream training.
Vaccinate
Wear a Mask
Temp Check
DistanceSanitizeTest
19
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAs part of each site’s emergency response procedures, it must either enter into an 
agreement with local agencies or engage its own Emergency Response Team (ERT) to 
manage a variety of emergency scenarios. All sites are required to perform evacuation 
drills and test emergency alarm systems annually.
Process Safety
Process Safety Management (PSM) is a core element of our safety culture at FMC.  
Below is an example of how we are continuously working to improve the safety  
of our employees and systems:
Management by  
Walking AroundIn 2020, we also expanded the Management by Walking Around (MBWA) program to include process safety. MBWA is an informal front-line 
safety leadership technique that puts leaders directly in operational areas to observe behaviors and conditions, engage with employees,  
address questions or concerns and identify signs of complacency.
As a result of the program, site leaders were able to identify process safety issues and take corrective actions before they became a hazard.  
In some cases, leaders’ observations led to the development of education and awareness campaigns on specific process safety topics such 
as bolting, hose connections, dust processing equipment, missing end caps or transport of portable equipment. FMC will continue to use this 
program to improve process safety moving forward.
Combustible Dust  
Hazard ManagementSince FMC first developed its Combustible Dust Standard in 2018, we have continued to update the characterization, identification and 
mitigation of combustible dust. This information is critical to fully understand dust hazards and to better design protective measures for 
employee safety. FMC’s internal validation team reviews the existing reports and leverages data across the sites to recommend new testing 
when required. In 2020, the team reviewed 84 materials. From this exercise we found that 22 materials required new testing. This is scheduled  
to be completed by early 2021.
Dust Hazard Analyses (DHA) that use checklists and specific risk-based templates have also been incorporated into our process hazard  
analysis programs. In 2020, more than 30 DHAs were conducted for existing processes or new capital projects.
20
RESILIENT. READY.COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
At FMC, we recognize that operating a site is not a right but a privilege. We work hard 
to earn the trust and support of every community in which we operate. If surrounding 
communities thrive, so do we. 
To monitor our community engagement progress at key FMC-owned manufacturing sites 
and select R&D facilities, each site reports on its community activities quarterly. If a site 
completes an activity in each of FMC’s four community engagement categories, it earns 
100 on the community engagement index. The four categories are: 
Community Leadership – Application of FMC’s skills or expertise to advance 
community efforts and ensure its continued wellbeing
Community Partnership – Donation of employee time or FMC resources to benefit 
the community
Operational Transparency – Demonstrating that FMC is open and transparent with 
the community in its operations
Safety – Sharing FMC’s core value of safety though an activity that will contribute 
to community safety
The final score on the community engagement index is an average score across all 
participating sites. The community engagement metric was designed to ensure that 
sites complete a well-rounded set of activities that address a variety of community 
needs. Following are highlights from two sites:
2020 RESULTS ON COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT INDEX
2018
2019
2020
90
In 2020, we made good progress on 
our community engagement metric. 
Collectively, our sites organized over 
200 events and initiatives to support 
their surrounding communities, with 
many focusing their efforts on COVID-19 
related support for people in need.81
82100
on the Community 
Engagement Index2025 GOAL 
21
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
5 
acres251  
employees
LAHORE
Location: Lahore, Pakistan
Type of Site: Formulations and Packaging Site
FMC PlantLahore
Model TownRavi River
Johar TownAllama  
Iqbal Town
M-2
N5STINE RESEARCH CENTER
Location: Newark, Delaware, U.S.
Type of Site: Research and Development Center 
Community Leadership
Stine employees are passionate about sharing their knowledge and skills with 
the local community. In 2020, they organized over 10 community leadership 
events. Most notably, FMC scientists supported the development of Delaware 
State University’s (DSU) environmental toxicology course. The team designed 
the syllabus and provided lectures and grading support throughout the 
semester. Through this program, FMC was able to bring an environmental 
toxicology course to DSU for the first time in 10 years, providing a valuable 
learning opportunity for students.
Operational Transparency 
The site hosted its bi-annual Community Advisory Panel meeting with the 
local community to share progress on sustainability goals, COVID-19 safety 
protocols, ongoing investments in the site and community engagement 
activities. The discussion generated interest from community business leaders 
to learn more about Stine’s work with FAME (an organization that motivates 
K-12 students, primarily under-represented minorities and girls, to pursue STEM 
degrees) and FMC’s Sustainability Assessment Tool. Community Partnership
The site organized 12 community partnership events 
throughout the year. For example, in recognition of 
World Food Day on October 16, employees sponsored 
a food drive to fight hunger. The drive collected 376 
pounds of food. All donations benefited the Food Bank 
of Delaware, which helped meet an increased need in 
the local community due to the pandemic. 
Safety 
The site hosted local responder Aetna Fire Company from Newark to 
conduct combined search and rescue training with our Emergency Response 
Team and presented a donation to the 
Aetna Fire Company to support the 
organization. The site also donated 192 
Tyvek suits and 70 N-95 masks to Aetna 
when its supplies were severely limited.
FMC Stine  
Research CenterPhiladelphiaWest Chester
Deptford
29595
ElktonCoatesville
525  
acres8
research  
buildings10  
support  
buildings413  
employees
Community Leadership
Lahore’s surface water quality has 
been decreasing due to a variety of 
issues, including contamination from 
raw municipal waste and agricultural 
runoff. Because of this, members of the 
community have had difficulty accessing 
clean water. Employees worked 
together to improve their neighboring 
community’s access to clean drinking water by installing filters that clean, purify 
and cool well water at two drinking points. Approximately 70-100 people have 
been positively impacted by this initiative.
Operational Transparency 
The site held meetings and site tours with local government and school officials 
to discuss community welfare projects, emergency response protocols and 
safety precautions. These meetings have established a direct connection to the 
local community and have helped FMC better direct our social initiatives.Community Partnership
The site provided monthly scholarships 
for 24 students from local schools. Each 
student received 500 Pakistan Rupees, 
which covered school fees and supplies. 
Students were selected based on merit, 
financial need and situational difficulties.
Safety 
In 2020, the site pivoted its safety outreach  
to support the community in safely 
managing COVID-19. It provided 
informational flyers and 400 COVID-19 kits 
to help curb the disease’s spread to local 
farmers and other community members. 
The kits contained medical masks, disposable gloves, hand sanitizer, 
disinfectant and a disinfectant spray bottle.
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT22RESILIENT. READY.Each installed plant will be managed by the village community on a co-operative basis. 
FMC staff will provide support with training and management. To assess the impact 
of the RO centers on these communities, FMC is working with Drexel University and a 
local research agency to collect, organize, analyze and report baseline and follow-up 
data on health and socioeconomic conditions in the targeted villages.
Project Samarth has installed 39 RO centers as of early 2021 and has plans to continue 
installations over the next few years. FMC will continue to provide progress updates on 
this project in future reports. 
ENGAGING COMMUNITIES ON 
AGRICULTURE THROUGH THE 
ARTS, BRAZIL 
FMC believes in the importance of 
helping communities understand 
the role of agriculture in their 
lives. FMC in Brazil supported 
the development of two plays to 
engage communities around good 
agricultural practices.  
From late 2019 to 2020, FMC 
sponsored the production of  
“Tree of Life, ” a play that highlights 
the importance of good agricultural practices in preserving and protecting biodiversity. 
Designed to engage and entertain a wide range of audiences, the show follows the journey 
of insects trying to save a large tree and its ecosystem. It has been performed more than 
270 times for over 73,000 spectators throughout several Brazilian municipalities.
FMC also sponsored the theatrical production, “Plantando o 7” 
(Planting the 7). Produced by Companhia de Teatro Sia Santa (a 
local theater company), the play deals with the seven habits of 
responsible agriculture and the impacts of burning straw in sugar 
cane production. Planting the 7 has been presented in several 
Brazilian cities. The presentations are aimed at children and use 
several classic stories retold to fit the agricultural context. In 2020, 
over 530 plays were viewed by more than 137,000 spectators.
In addition to our community engagement metric, other global sites (such as our regional 
and country headquarters) are encouraged to complete larger-scale, ongoing community 
engagement events based on local and regional needs. Below are two examples of 
projects that made great progress in 2020. 
PROJECT SAMARTH, INDIA 
Unsafe drinking water in India is a significant problem that has resulted in adverse 
healthcare, economic and social impacts. Over 163 million people in India are unable to 
procure drinking water to meet their daily needs. As a result, nearly 400 million people 
are affected by waterborne diseases, with over 500 children a day dying of diarrhoeal 
disease from contaminated water. 
FMC’s Project Samarth (Hindi for Empowered) is a three-year program to make potable 
water accessible to India’s rural communities. FMC is funding the Rural Economic and 
Educational Development Society (REEDS) to install Reverse Osmosis treatment centers 
(RO centers) in select villages in India, specifically in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. 
FMC targets to install over 140 RO centers throughout the three-year project that will 
potentially serve over 140,000 people, including smallholder farmers and their families. 
Maria de Lourdes Fustaino, FMC Latin America 
Regulatory Director and the cast of “Tree of Life”
Reverse Osmosis Center installed in Kanhari, Uttar Pradesh in early 2021
23
Innovation is at the heart of our work to create sustainably-
advantaged solutions that protect crops from pests and help 
address issues related to climate change and biodiversity loss.  
As agricultural technology evolves, we look to broaden our 
investments and collaborations to augment our existing capabilities.
RESILIENT. READY.
INNOVATION
Society is facing monumental challenges. According to the World Economic Forum’s 
Global Risks Report 2020, environmental-related risks now rate the highest in their impact 
and likelihood to affect the world’s economy. Extreme weather events, extended drought 
conditions, biodiversity loss and other effects of climate change pose major threats to 
agriculture, globally. At the same time, demand for protein, food and feed is rising every year. 
Expectations are high for meaningful innovation in sustainable agriculture. Investors, 
customers and employees want to invest in, do business with and work for socially 
progressive companies that are committed to protecting the environment and willing to 
take bold actions. 
R&D Pipeline
Our technology organization is driven by a set of priorities that guide how we approach 
our mission every day. Foremost, it is anticipating grower needs, translating their needs 
into potential market opportunities and directing our research to create new sustainable 
products that address those opportunities.
At FMC, we have more than 35 new synthetic and biological active ingredients currently 
in Discovery and Development. These active ingredients have unique properties that 
INNOVATION GOALS PROGRESS
100% R&D spend 
on sustainably-  
advantaged products 2025 GOAL 
Note: A sustainably-advantaged product is one that positively impacts at least one of 
the six major Global Challenges: Food Expectations, Health and Safety Expectations, 
Environmental Consciousness, Climate Change, Scarce Resources and Land Competition, 
but does not retreat in any of the five other areas.
2018
2019
2020
87%
93%
97%address major grower challenges, including better resistance management, improved 
application timing windows and enhanced residual control, to name a few. Many also 
feature new modes of action.
The graphic below describes FMC’s R&D pipeline. It is managed through a stage gate 
process—we advance a molecule only when it meets a gate’s objective criteria.
Early, high-risk research takes place 
in Discovery. It is where we identify 
and create new molecules the 
world has never seen to control 
pests that challenge growers. We 
focus on molecules that can meet 
future registration requirements and 
criteria for a successful, competitive 
commercial product. We screen more 
than 60,000 compounds annually.Successful molecules will progress 
to the Development pipeline. Before 
this move, a molecule must meet 
multiple criteria. As a molecule 
progresses through Development, 
we conduct tests and generate data 
comparing our technology against 
competitive products. Data will range 
from technical performance, human 
safety profiles, resistance or cross 
resistance, residual control, beneficial 
insect safety, application timing 
windows and many other attributes.DISCOVERY PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
Synthetic ~2-4 years Synthetic ~7-10 years Biological ~2-3 years Biological ~3-5 years
We are driven in our constant pursuit of new, more sustainable options for growers, 
and holistic solutions that protect crops while safeguarding our environment for future 
generations. Core to this is our focused investment in innovative technologies that can 
accelerate and augment our current capabilities.25
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Sustainability Assessment Tool
To ensure that our R&D pipeline is meeting FMC’s sustainable innovation goals, each 
product is assessed using FMC’s Sustainability Assessment Tool. The results of these 
assessments inform our innovation goals outlined on the previous page. If a product 
is not considered sustainable, then FMC works to mitigate the area of concern.
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThe Sustainability Assessment Tool was developed in 2016 by a team of internal 
experts. Recognized by the American Chemistry Council (ACC), this award-winning 
tool was designed to compare an active ingredient or formulated product to a 
benchmark active ingredient or product.
The questions in the tool focus on six major global challenges including Food 
Expectations, Health and Safety Expectations, Scarce Resources, Climate Change, 
Land Competition and Environmental Consciousnesses (outlined in the matrix 
above). The questions were also designed to ensure that our innovation strategy 
incorporates the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals #2: Zero Hunger, 
#13 Climate Action and #15: Life on Land. An R&D project or product is considered 
sustainably-advantaged if it is better than the benchmark in at least one of the six 
global challenges, but it cannot retreat in any of the five other areas. 
FMC has openly shared the tool and its methodology on our sustainability website 
and with peer companies so the agriculture industry and other industries can 
benefit from it. SUSTAINABILITY 
MATRIX
BENCHMARK
FMC PRODUCTFood Expectations
Health & Safety 
Expectations
Land  
CompetitionScarce 
ResourcesEnvironmental 
Consciousness
-50510
Climate ChangeSPOTLIGHT: ISOFLEX™ ACTIVE
Overwatch® herbicide, our newest product with the Isoflex™ active ingredient, 
launched in Australia in early 2021. This herbicide helps growers address  
problem grass and broadleaf weeds across a wide range of agronomic 
environments. Below are some of the key highlights of Isoflex™ active that give  
it a sustainable advantage: 
New Mode of Action in wheat and barley. This provides farmers with  
a valuable additional option of weed control as part of their toolkit.
Controls/suppresses difficult grasses such as ryegrass and some key 
broadleaf weeds. In Australia, annual ryegrass is an extremely damaging 
weed with heavy infestations causing significant losses for farmers. 
Can be applied pre-emergent and early post-emergent, providing a  
longer interval time to spray and thus maximizing grower productivity. 
Excellent tool for resistance management in pre-emergent and early  
post-emergent crop segments on a wide range of major crops.
Food Expectations
Health & Safety 
Expectations
Land  
CompetitionScarce 
ResourcesEnvironmental 
Consciousness
-50510
Climate Change
Ryegrass treated with Overwatch®  
herbicide (left) compared to 
untreated (right)The sustainability assessment of Isoflex™ active 
showed improved profiles in Food Expectations, 
Health & Safety Expectations, Climate Change and 
Land Competition compared to industry benchmark.BENCHMARK ACTIVE INGREDIENT OR PRODUCT
26
FMC VENTURES
In June 2020, FMC launched a new venture capital arm focused on strategic investments in start-ups and early-stage companies, primarily in artificial intelligence, biopesticides, precision 
agriculture and emerging business models. These early-stage investments provide us a better view of where crop protection, biologicals and precision agriculture markets may be 
heading. Below are key highlights from our investments in 2020:
Other Key Collaborations 
In addition to our investment through FMC Ventures, our R&D team has initiated 
collaborations with two organizations to support their research efforts. 
Cyclica is a leading biotech company specializing in artificial 
intelligence and computational biophysics. Augmenting our 
traditional research and screening processes with the power of 
artificial intelligence will help us identify and assess more molecules 
faster and with greater precision.
Zymergen is a science and material innovation company focused 
on rethinking biology. Zymergen’s proprietary metagenomic 
library will help FMC scientists identify new natural crop protection 
products—potential starting points for new molecules in our 
discovery efforts. Scanit Technologies is the creator of the SporeCam™ instrument, a wireless 
sensor that proactively detects airborne pathogen spores before they can 
infect crops. FMC and Scanit will partner on analyzing Asian soybean rust 
in Brazil using the SporeCam™ instrument beginning in early 2021. When 
combined with other parameters, Scanit holds the promise of alerting the 
grower before disease onset so they can better manage their fungicide sprays.
Guardian Agriculture (Formerly Kiwi Technologies) is an autonomous aerial 
spraying start-up. This technology uses robotics to do more with less and 
do it safely and sustainably.
BioPhero is an innovative pheromone start-up based in Copenhagen. 
Through the investment from FMC and other organizations, BioPhero 
will ramp up production of several pheromone products at the quantity, 
quality and price required to allow farmers to control major pests in a 
variety of row crops. 
TRACE GENOMICS 
FMC Ventures announced its first investment in  
Trace Genomics, a start-up that combines superior DNA sequencing and machine learning 
to explain how soil diseases emerge. These data can identify beneficial organisms, which 
may ultimately be developed into biological products that counter harmful pathogens.
Trace Genomics was recently selected as one of the World Economic Forum's Technology 
Pioneers, which recognizes the world's most promising start-ups and scale-ups that are at 
the forefront of technological and business model innovation.
In the second half of 2020 and early 2021 we began collaborations and investments with 
a number of other key partners:
RESILIENT. READY.“
“To create a future where this planet can feed 10 billion people, we need to collaborate 
across the food and agriculture system. All stakeholders in agriculture—and certainly 
solution providers like FMC—want science-backed soil intelligence to unlock the full 
potential of our living soil. We look forward to collaborating with them as we expand 
agricultural practices and solutions to help improve farm productivity in a more 
sustainable manner and restore our living soil." 
Dan Vradenburg 
CEO, Trace Genomics
2728
PLANT HEALTH
For agriculture, the effects of climate change have resulted in a less stable 
environment in which to grow food. Our Plant Health business discovers and 
develops biologicals such as biostimulants and biopesticides that can help plants 
overcome difficult growing conditions, fight pests and disease, and assist in 
regulating a plant’s uptake of nutrients and water. These products are derived from 
microorganisms, metabolites, pheromones and other naturally occurring materials.
Our vision is to be a top-tier global provider of biologicals that delivers  
high-performing, sustainable solutions for growers.
We want to offer integrated solutions to specific grower needs that:
Use biologicals, synthetics and crop nutrition components in an  
integrated approach
Leverage the complementary effects of biologicals and synthetics 
Extend synthetics’ lifecycle through resistance management
To achieve this vision, FMC has already been establishing a strong presence  
in key biological segments.Biostimulants
Protecting food systems’ resilience requires the sustainable alleviation of 
environmental or abiotic stresses such as temperature extremes (notably heat), 
drought, flood, high winds and salinity, and biotic stresses such as viruses, 
bacteria and fungi, that result in crop yield reduction and possibly crop failure. 
Recent advances in research through gene mapping have clearly shown how 
biostimulants can enhance a crop’s abiotic stress response. These products are 
usually sourced from plant material (such as seaweed or amino acids) or are 
microbe-based (such as bacterial strains) and may be applied via foliar spray,  
soil application or even seed treatment.
FMC’s award-winning biostimulant portfolio provides growers with science-
backed solutions that are sustainably sourced, unique in composition and 
focused on crop needs. Our products are designed to alleviate aspects of 
environmental stress – whether from temperature extremes, moisture levels 
or other locally prevalent issues. The use of sustainably sourced raw materials 
(e.g. seaweed) is a hallmark of our biostimulant portfolio. Following are some 
examples of FMC’s offerings in the biostimulant space.
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FMC Corporation was recognized with top honors in the Best Biological Product 
(Biostimulant) category at the Crop Science Forum & Awards 2020 with its 
Accudo™ biostimulant, a microbial innovation valued for enhancing yield gains 
greater than 15 percent.
Accudo™ biostimulant enhances root development and has anti-fungal tolerance, 
delivering superior yield increases compared to competitive products. It also has a 
superior shelf life of two years compared to competitive biological crop protection 
products on the market.
28RESILIENT. READY.
LEGEND™ ORGANIC FERTILIZER
Legend™ is an organic, certified biostimulant 
that helps growers improve crops’ response 
to stresses caused by drought. The product 
works at a very low dose rate and is powered 
by SURGE Technology (Selective Upregulation 
of Gene Expression) that improves a plant’s 
gene activation responsible for various 
plant functions. The product is partially made from a renewable source by cultivating 
Rhodophytes (Red Seaweed) and extracting Sulphated Oligosaccharides as an active 
ingredient. It also provides bioavailable potash and contains sulphur to enhance a plant’s 
hormonal activity and improve the shape, size, shine and color of fruits. 
SEAMAC™ RHIZO BIOSTIMULANT
Seamac™ Rhizo biostimulant is a proprietary 
FMC formulated biostimulant for root 
promotion and plant establishment. It delivers 
a unique blend of amino acids, seaweed 
extract, major nutrients and six different 
micronutrients including manganese, zinc 
and boron to enhance crop vigor, harvest 
and quality. It can be applied drip, drench 
or foliar across many different varieties of 
crops including vegetables, citrus, maize, 
sunflower, cotton, olive, grapes and others. Seamac™ Rhizo biostimulant also increases 
soil respiration, reduces soil evaporation and improves beneficial microorganisms’ 
colonization in the plant’s roots.
Biopesticides
Biopesticides feature new modes of action that complement our synthetic portfolio. They 
also have excellent sustainability profiles by presenting a very low risk to beneficial insects. 
Growers can re-enter the field and crops can be harvested shortly after application. 
Our Plant Health R&D team at our European Innovation Center (EIC), which serves as 
FMC’s Biologicals ‘Center of Excellence, ’ collaborates with our Global R&D organization to 
focus on biopesticides with performance attributes that exceed the competition, such as high stability, long shelf life, low use rates and broad compatibility with other chemistries. 
Our current biopesticide portfolio features the award-winning bionematicides Presence® 
and Quartzo® that have been improving the yields of Brazilian growers since their launch. 
Looking ahead, FMC has eight biopesticides in our Discovery pipeline. There are also 
four biopesticides currently in our Development pipeline on the path to launch globally. 
Many of these new products will have new modes of action that can be applied in 
various methods across a variety of crops. These will be valuable tools for growers to 
complement existing pest and disease control methods. 
FMC is actively considering partnerships for product and technology access and 
pipeline acquisition, as well as go-to-market opportunities to continue to bolster our 
biological crop protection portfolio. A recent example of this is our strategic collaboration 
with Novozymes, a world leader in biological solutions, to research, co-develop and 
commercialize biological enzyme-based crop protection solutions for growers around  
the world. 
The demonstrated success of using an integrated approach with our biologicals, 
synthetics and crop nutrition portfolios illustrate FMC’s presence and advancement in  
the biological space. Below is one example of FMC’s integrated offerings.
PROJECT GENNESIS CANA
FMC’s Project Gennesis Cana is an 
integrated program for sugarcane in 
Brazil that includes FMC’s synthetic, 
biopesticides and biostimulant 
products to tackle pest and disease 
threats and enhance crop health. 
By using a combination of products, 
the program provides growers a holistic 
solution that addresses their market 
challenges. In addition to needing fewer applications, the solutions are applied via  
in-furrow processes, which lowers applicator risk and uses more targeted application.  
To date, over 60,000 hectares of cropland benefited from Project Gennesis Cana.
Treated with Legend™ 
organic fertilizerFarmer Practice
SEAMAC™ RHIZO  
BIOSTIMULANT29
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRECISION AGRICULTURE
FMC’s Precision Agriculture solutions are designed to ensure the right crop protection 
products are applied precisely where and when they are needed to increase sustainability, 
optimize yield quality and quantity, and improve ROI. FMC currently has three major 
precision agriculture applications in its portfolio that are driving the future of crop care. 
3RIVE 3D™ Application System – A revolutionary crop protection delivery system 
that helps growers efficiently cover more ground in less time with fewer refills – 
saving water, fuel, labor and time.
PrecisionPac® Solutions – A distribution system that allows retail agronomists to 
create custom herbicide combinations specific to each grower, their crop and field. 
The PrecisionPac® machine pre-measures and mixes custom combinations for 
growers that fit the desired field or sprayer tank.
Arc™ farm intelligence – FMC’s newest precision agriculture platform that enables 
growers and advisors to predict pest pressure more accurately before it becomes  
a problem.
Arc™ farm intelligence 
In 2020, we launched Arc™ farm intelligence, 
an exclusive precision agriculture platform with 
unique technology that provides growers real-time data and predictive modeling of future 
pest pressure. Predicting pest pressure with high accuracy before it impacts a grower’s 
crops delivers many benefits, including the ability to treat infestations before they 
escalate and manage insect resistance through more effective application schedules. 
One of the key pests targeted by Arc™ farm intelligence is the highly invasive fall 
armyworm (FAW). This pest is endemic to the Americas but has rapidly spread to Africa 
and parts of Asia. This spread has been due to a variety of factors, including the pest’s 
ability to fly long distances and the expansion of FAW habitats due to climate change. 
Uncontrolled infestations of FAW have the ability to severely affect food systems, 
particularly in developing regions. Through Arc™ farm intelligence and a number of our 
innovative crop protection solutions, we are committed to helping growers address these 
infestations to prevent the losses of crops and further spread of these pests.In 2020, Arc™ farm intelligence was successfully piloted 
in Greece, Spain, Brazil, Russia, the U.S. and Argentina. 
We also announced a partnership with Nutrien to 
use the platform for the prediction of diamondback 
moths in California (read more about this customer 
collaboration below). There are close to 4 million acres 
covered by Arc™ farm intelligence with more than 500 
active users this year. In 2021, we plan to expand the 
program to 20 countries and about 25 million acres 
covered, including monitoring 13 different crop types  
and 21 different insects.The visualization of real-time data and 
predictive modeling helps growers make 
the best possible decision about which crop 
protection products to apply and when.
DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN
FMC partnered with one of our key customers, 
Nutrien Ag Solutions (Nutrien), on a pilot 
program for FMC’s Arc™ farm intelligence 
platform. The program was designed to 
deliver real-time pest mapping and predictive forecasts of diamondback moth 
populations in brassica crops to Nutrien Pest Control Advisors (PCAs) in the 
Salinas Valley of California, U.S. Brassica crops, such as broccoli, brussels 
sprouts and cabbage, are some of the most nutrient dense vegetables and play a 
key role in promoting human health. The diamondback moth is one of the most 
prolific pests on brassicas, with an estimated annual economic impact exceeding 
$4 billion. These insects feed on the crops, causing physical damage and 
creating a vector for disease, rendering them commercially unviable. As such, 
early detection and treatment are essential in making sure these vegetables 
reach our plates. 
Using FMC’s Arc™ farm intelligence platform, Nutrien PCAs and growers were 
able to easily track, and ultimately predict, the progression of pest pressure 
from May to September 2020, the peak season for diamondback moths. For 
Nutrien’s PCAs, the highly visual and accessible pest information helps them 
be more efficient and effective in scouting and delivering pest management 
recommendations to growers. FMC plans to refine and validate an advanced pest 
prediction model for diamondback moths based on current and historical data. 
30
GLOBAL SPECIALTY SOLUTIONS
FMC’s focus on sustainable, precision application technology extends beyond crop 
protection to include professional (turf, ornamental and structural pests), consumer 
(home, lawn and garden) and environmental management (vector control) sectors.  
FMC’s Global Specialty Solutions (GSS) business is a global leader in protecting public 
health and improving quality of life through sustainable innovation.
Fyfanon® Insecticide –  
Supporting human health through  
the control of mosquitoes
Despite dramatic progress in recent years, the World Health Organization (WHO) notes 
that “Vector-borne diseases account for an estimated 17 percent of the global burden 
of communicable diseases and claim more than 700,000 lives every year. ”1 For over 60 
years, malathion, the active ingredient in Fyfanon® insecticide, has established a record 
of proven mosquito control around the world. Over the past three years, research 
conducted by FMC found that Fyfanon® insecticide can provide the same level of efficacy 
at an aerial application rate as low as one fluid ounce per acre. The combination of 
formulation technology and application precision greatly reduces the amount of active DIAMIDES PORTFOLIO
Vantacor™ Insect Control (Powered by Rynaxypyr® Active)   
A new and sustainably-advantaged formulation 
FMC’s Rynaxypyr® active ingredient belongs to the diamide class of insect control 
products, highly selective chemistries that only target certain classes of pests. When 
Rynaxypyr® active ingredient was first introduced in 2008, it offered a new mode of 
action for insect control as well as other performance characteristics that led to its rapid 
adoption by farmers worldwide. 
In 2020, FMC launched a new sustainably-advantaged Rynaxypyr® active ingredient 
formulation called Vantacor™ insect control in the United States. Vantacor™ insect 
control is a highly concentrated formulation of Rynaxypyr® active ingredient. The highly 
concentrated formulation results in a wide range of sustainability advantages. 
RESILIENT. READY.Sustainability Advantages of Vantacor™ insect control:
Approximately 12 times less packaging required
80-95 percent less water required for formulated product as compared to lower 
concentration formulations *
Less potential exposure to applicators with fewer containers to open
60-85 percent less weight compared to lower concentration formulations *  
that may result in lower transportation emissions and cost
*Compared to Rynaxypyr® active ingredient 200 SC and 5 SC formulations
ingredient in the environment without compromising the mosquito control benefits 
to human health. Additionally, in 2018, FMC introduced Fyfanon® EW insecticide, a 
water-based formulation that delivers the mosquito control efficacy of malathion at low 
application rates by ground-based equipment and with virtually no odor. 
New formulations and application technologies help 
keep malathion in the very limited tool kit available 
to mosquito control professionals. The Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other 
agencies recognize that continued use of any 
one class of chemistry (pyrethroids in the case of 
mosquito control) inevitably leads to the development 
of resistance in many mosquito species.2 Both 
Fyfanon® ULV and Fyfanon® EW insecticides are 
important, non-pyrethroid rotation partners to reduce the 
risk of resistance. Regulatory agencies have an ongoing mandate to protect public health 
at the minimum effective level of active ingredients in the environment. FMC works with 
mosquito control professionals around the world to comply with this mandate.
An example of truck-mounted application 
equipment for mosquito-control measures
1 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/vector-borne-diseases
2 https://www.cdc.gov/mosquitoes/mosquito-control/community/adulticides.html31There is only one Earth. We strive to reduce the impact that our 
products and manufacturing processes have on the environment  
and the surrounding communities. We are committed to increasing  
the transparency of our operations and report on progress toward  
our environmental goals. RESILIENT. READY.
Customer Engagement on Stewardship 
Customer engagement is a core focus of FMC’s stewardship program. It is critical that our 
customers and farmers around the world understand how to use our products responsibly 
and that they have the tools, resources and support they need to do so. Below is an 
overview of 2020 customer training activities across the globe.
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
North AmericaDelivered training with a focus on Integrated Pest  
Management (IPM) and Insect Resistance Management (IRM)
Asia PacificMore than 105,000 farmers and dealers received at least one 
hour of training on stewardship topics such as application 
techniques, Integrated Pest Management, Integrated 
Resistance Management, pest scouting, use of personal  
protective equipment (PPE) and safe handling
Engaged with more than 3.08 million farmers on stewardship 
as part of digital marketing meetings
Latin AmericaRelaunched 7 Habits of Responsibility stewardship  
training program in the Andean region with over 1,800 
customers trained
Expanded 7 Habits of Responsibility stewardship training 
program to Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay 
Due to the proliferation of smartphone messaging apps in 
Brazil, the FMC team regularly disseminates the 7 Habits 
of Responsibility training through simple, easy to digest 
‘WhatsApp’ informational cards
Europe,  
the Middle East  
and AfricaDelivered training with a focus on application methods,  
Good Agricultural Practices and IPM
Trained growers from Saudi Arabia in the proper use of 
products in greenhouses in order to minimize the risk of 
inhalation. During the training, we distributed masks to  
farmers to actively ensure the use of protective equipment.
REGION
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Product stewardship is an integral part of how we do business and our broader 
relationship with our customers and the environment. From the moment we discover 
a new molecule to the moment a farmer throws away an empty container, we are 
working to ensure the health and safety of the people, wildlife and natural resources our 
products touch. For FMC, this is about ensuring the safe, sustainable and ethical use 
of our products along the product life cycle. We also work closely with other industry 
participants, locally and globally, to promote good agricultural practices that contribute 
to more sustainable crop production. 
FMC’S PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP FOCUS AREAS IN 2020
User/Retailer Engagement – Engaging with and/or training farmers and retailers  
in the responsible use of our products
Employee Training – Training employees to increase awareness of Product 
Stewardship and leverage their knowledge
Managing Adverse Incidents – Emergency telephone numbers on labels and  
Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and processes to handle incidents
Product Stewardship Due Diligence – Stewardship reviews of new products to 
identify potential risks and implement mitigation measures to ensure their safe use
Label Reviews – Label Review Process to ensure accuracy, consistency and 
completeness of product labels
Product Stewardship Due Diligence Process 
Over the last few years, FMC has formalized a stewardship assessment process that helps 
identify potential risks and opportunities related to our products as well as measures to 
ensure products can be used safely and sustainably. As part of the process, a team of 
in-house experts reviews risk factors as associated with human exposure, environmental 
exposure, storage, transportation, preparation and application procedures. These 
assessments are updated whenever we develop a new use for the product, such as 
extending its use to a new crop or adding a different application method.33
Digital Stewardship in Asia
In response to the challenges in reaching retailers and growers during the early stages 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, FMC in China quickly took to its digital platforms, finding 
creative ways to continue to engage customers. Following its lead, the Asia Pacific team 
developed a plan to continue customer outreach activities through virtual field days, 
online advisory services and live stream training. These initiatives extended our grower 
stewardship outreach at a fraction of the environmental footprint due to lower travel 
emissions. Moving forward, digital programs will be an integral part of our customer 
engagement programs alongside more traditional face-to-face engagement. 
Examples of Digital Stewardship Programs:
FMC in India’s newest online program, E-fields, live 
broadcasts on-field demonstrations on Facebook®, 
YouTube® and Zoom™ to thousands of farmers in the 
region. The online show features conversations with 
farmers on crop safety, product performance, application 
recommendations and stewardship. The program has 
reached more than 5,000 farmers and is becoming increasingly popular.
FMC in Malaysia launched FMC Kongsi TV, which streams daily to educate farmers on rice 
and vegetable crops, and has reached more than 4,000 views for each live program.
FMC in the Philippines launched FMC Learning Center Live, which broadcasted to farmers 
and retailers twice a day through Facebook® live to explain how to grow crops successfully 
and sustainably with FMC technologies. Each episode generated approximately 2,000 views.
Highly Hazardous Pesticides
FMC is continuing to phase out Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs) from our product 
portfolio. We evaluate HHPs using the criteria and process defined by the United Nations 
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) which is the globally accepted regulatory 
classification scheme. At the end of 2019, we ceased sales of carbofuran in the few 
remaining countries where it was sold. We currently have five HHPs remaining in our 
portfolio and continue to monitor and phase out uses as appropriate. In 2020, these 
HHPs accounted for less than 0.3 percent of global sales. Risk assessments and product 
stewardship programs for the remaining HHPs in the specific countries of sales continue 
so we are aware of any issues that may occur and can address them immediately. 
Utilization of our Product Stewardship and Sustainability Assessment tools ensures we 
screen out potential HHPs early in the development process of new products.  
Our commitment is steadfast to not develop any new HHPs.
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FMC E-fields program in India
2030 GOAL 
(compared to 2018 Baseline)  
Energy Intensity 12.8 %
GHG Emissions  
Intensity
Sustain 2018 IntensityWaste Disposed  
Intensity
Water Use Intensity  
at High-Risk Locations
2020 PROGRESS  
(compared to 2018 Baseline)GOAL METRIC
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
We have made a commitment to deliver products that maintain a safe and secure 
food supply and to do so in a way that protects the environment for future 
generations. To reflect this commitment, in 2019 we reset our sustainability goals 
to challenge ourselves to further reduce our environmental impact. Below is FMC’s 
2020 progress on our environmental goals and other key metrics. A downloadable 
list of our full environmental data points is available on our website. 
Environmental Boundary
FMC has a network of manufacturing sites that produce active ingredients 
(AIs) and perform product formulation, mixing and packaging. We also conduct 
extensive R&D activities to develop sustainably-advantaged products. 
Our environmental goals and metrics pertain to our most material sites, in terms of 
environmental footprint, unless otherwise stated. These material sites include 25 
global manufacturing sites and our largest R&D facility in Newark, Delaware. FMC 
also has a number of smaller R&D facilities, field stations, regional headquarters 
and country offices. The footprint of these sites is only included in our Scope 1, 2 
and 3 emissions reporting to satisfy the GHG Protocol’s completeness principle. 20%25%
25% 15.3 %
3.5 %
19.6 %34GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
Our overall GHG emissions intensity (Kilo tonnes of CO2 equivalent/Metric tonne 
production) decreased 15.3 percent compared to our 2018 baseline. This was achieved 
primarily through energy usage reductions, as described in the previous section. A 
significant driver of our GHG emissions footprint is our electricity use. While electricity is 
only 27 percent of our energy mix, it contributes to 41 percent of GHG emissions. In 2020, 
we purchased renewable energy credits at some of our sites. We also began developing a 
strategy to significantly expand our use of renewable electricity globally. Additionally, some independent companies not under FMC’s operational control reside 
and operate from within FMC’s sites. Their consumption of energy, water and waste are 
reported separately and are not included in FMC’s sustainability goals or our GHG emissions 
reporting at this time. 
FMC works with several third-party contract manufacturing sites to produce select AIs and 
intermediate products. These sites are not under FMC’s operational control and thus excluded 
from our 2030 environmental goals. We track and report their energy consumption and waste 
generation amounts separately (more information on these sites listed on page 36). 
External Assurance 
In 2020, we engaged ERM CVS to perform limited assurance of our select environmental 
and safety data. The scope of assurance is in line with our environmental boundary and 
does not include active ingredient contract manufacturers. This partnership with ERM CVS 
has not only increased transparency in our disclosures, it has also resulted in significant 
improvement in our data gathering process and accuracy. This year, we have assured an 
expanded list of metrics that are detailed below. ERM CVS’s assurance letter is on page 38. 
Environmental Metrics
ENERGY
In 2020, our overall energy intensity (Gigajoule/Metric tonne production) decreased  
12.8 percent compared to our 2018 baseline. Energy efficiency projects and infrastructure 
upgrades to include more efficient HVAC systems and lighting fixtures at our sites 
contributed to overall performance improvement. 
EXTERNALLY ASSURED METRICS 2020
Total GHG Emissions, Location-Based (Kilo tonne CO2e) 151.95
Total GHG Emissions, Market-Based (Kilo tonne CO2e)
Gross Scope 1 Emissions (Kilo tonne CO2e)
Gross Scope 2 Emissions, Location-Based (Kilo tonne CO2e)
Gross Scope 2 Emissions, Market-Based (Kilo tonne CO2e)150.61
83.58
68.36
67.03FMC GHG Emissions Intensity  
(Metric tonne CO2e/Metric tonne production)0.44
Notes about emissions reporting: 
The GHG emissions intensity indicator excludes energy provided to third parties.
To satisfy the completeness principle in accordance with the GHG protocol, all material and non-material sites are 
included in our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reporting. 
Scope 3 emissions are not externally assured at this time and will be available on our website and through our annual 
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire. 
In 2020, GHG intensity was calculated using market-based emissions while 2018 and 2019 intensities were calculated 
using locations-based emissions.
EXTERNALLY ASSURED METRICS 2020
Total Energy Use (Terrajoule) 2,106
FMC Energy Intensity (Gigajoule/Metric tonne production) * 6.14
Total Renewable Energy (Terrajoule) 4.65
Innovative GHG emissions management at Panoli, India
Our Panoli, India site is one of FMC’s key AI manufacturing locations. It is also 
a significant source of GHG emissions, partially due to the use of briquettes 
as an energy source. The briquettes are made from an agricultural byproduct 
(groundnut shells). FMC purchases these briquettes from the local farmers who 
would otherwise burn their ground nut shells without energy recovery. With this 
additional stream of income for the community, the use of briquettes is closely 
tied to the local economy and positively contributes to the community’s socio-
economic sustainability. In mid-2020, the site also began procuring renewable 
electricity through a virtual power purchase agreement that reduced the GHG 
footprint from electricity by 3 percent. In 2021, the site plans to extend it to cover 
10 percent of the site’s electricity consumption. 
Briquettes (shown above) 
add to the circularity of 
agricultural byproducts that 
would otherwise be burned 
without energy recovery.Spotlight
HVAC modernization at Stine Research Center
In 2020, we upgraded the HVAC controls in a Discovery laboratory at Stine Research Center 
in Delaware, U.S. The old system often caused compressed air leaks, excess airflow in the 
laboratories and inefficiencies in temperature management. The new system allows air to 
circulate more efficiently and generates significant energy savings (approximately 3,000 MWh 
per annum). This project is currently being replicated at several other FMC locations.Spotlight*The energy intensity indicator excludes energy provided to third parties.35FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
WASTE
At FMC, we report on our waste in two categories based on disposal methods. 
Waste Disposed – Disposal methods such as incineration without energy recovery, 
landfill, waste going to a wastewater treatment plant
Waste to Beneficial Reuse – Disposal methods such as fuel blending, composting 
and incineration with energy recovery and recycling 
In 2020, FMC executed several projects that reduced the amount of waste disposed 
through more efficient water usage and diverting waste for more beneficial uses. As a 
result of these initiatives, our overall waste intensity (Kilo tonnes of waste disposed/
metric tonne production) reduced 3.5 percent compared to our 2018 baseline. 
WATER
We track water use at all sites within our reporting boundary. Eleven of our sites fall in the 
high-risk water category, as defined by the World Resources Institute’s aqueduct tool V2.1. 
In 2020, we conducted an in-depth qualitative survey to assess imminent risk to each of 
our high-risk water sites. Through the survey, we concluded that there is no imminent risk 
of disruption to operations due to water-related issues. Our sites also undertook several projects to reduce water consumption, such as replacing water with recyclable solvent to 
clean machinery, recycling water for cooling towers and condensate recovery. As a result 
of these initiatives, our overall water use intensity at high-risk locations (Thousand m3/ 
Metric tonne production) reduced 19.6 percent compared to our 2018 baseline. 
FMC Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Sites 
FMC works with several third-party contract manufacturing sites to produce select AIs and 
intermediate products. Many of the materials produced at our contract manufacturing 
sites are energy and waste intensive and we have an important responsibility to work 
with our partners to reduce their environmental footprint. Many of these sites utilize 
FMC’s prescribed technology packages (technical information on how to produce specific 
products), which we consistently work to improve. Full performance metrics of these sites 
are available on our website. Waste Reduction Project
At our Mobile, Alabama manufacturing site, we made improvements to one of the solvent 
recovery processes to increase efficiency and also altered chemical concentrations to reduce 
aqueous waste. These projects reduced incinerated waste by more than 2.7 million kg and 
increased the amount of solvent recovered by 65 percent leading to greater circularity in our 
manufacturing processes. 
Waste minimization contract manufacturing sites
To continuously improve the sustainability of our supply chain, FMC partnered with one of 
our active ingredient contract manufacturers based in Jianshu province, China, to significantly 
reduce their waste output. The project, which was funded by FMC and based on similar efforts 
conducted by the contract manufacturer, improved yield and resulted in the reduction of 
solvent use by about 450 metric tonnes per year and waste by 550 metric tonnes per year.Condensate Recovery Project
Our Manati, Puerto Rico, AI manufacturing site executed a project 
to recover steam condensate that was otherwise being wasted. 
A skid-mounted surge tank was installed to provide the proper 
design capacity for the condensate return flow from the process 
streams. Due to this project, the site recovers and recycles 
approximately 15,000 gallons per day of steam condensate 
resulting in significant reductions in waste water volume. The 
project also reduced energy consumption due to recovered heat.
Spotlight
SpotlightSpotlight
EXTERNALLY ASSURED METRICS 2020
Total Water Use (Million Cubic Meters) 1.517
Total High Risk Water Use (Million Cubic Meters) 0.285926
High Risk Water Intensity (Cubic Meters/Metric tonne production) 2.95
Newly installed condensate 
recovery tank at our Manati Site
EXTERNALLY ASSURED METRICS 2020
Total Waste Disposed (Kilo tonne)
Total Hazardous Waste (Kilo tonne)
Total Non-Hazardous Waste (Kilo tonne)50.2
45.2
27.4Waste Disposed Intensity (Kg/Metric tonne production) 146.4
Total Waste for Beneficial Reuse (Kilo tonne) 22.4
36
RESILIENT. READY.NEWARK, CALIFORNIA
FMC is remediating its legacy Newark, California site into a mixed-use area that includes 
residential buildings, retail space, a neighborhood park and a transportation hub. This 
is part of a broader development plan established by the city and will contribute to 
meeting the growing demand for housing in the San Francisco Bay Area. 
In its first phase of development in 2019, FMC sold approximately 17 acres of land 
and construction began later that year. In 2020, FMC sold an additional approximately 
16 acres for the second phase of residential redevelopment, which is scheduled to 
begin in 2022. The third and final phase of development includes remediation of the 
remaining approximately 5-acre parcel which will be converted into a public park. The 
remedy selected for the future park involves treating contaminants in-place, which 
significantly reduces waste generation, greenhouse gas emissions and worker/public 
safety hazards compared with off-site transportation and disposal. FMC began the 
remediation of the future park area in 2020 and it is scheduled for completion in 2022.BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
In 2020, FMC completed the sale of a former product facility to a brownfield 
redeveloper. The currently vacant 85-acre site will be converted into a business 
complex with warehouses, parking lots and landscaped areas. The project is  
expected to generate over 600 jobs for the surrounding community.
The site redevelopment plan will serve as the soil remedy, which will protect 
future site workers and visitors from contact with potentially contaminated soil. 
Completing the soil remedy and redevelopment activities at the same time reduces 
overall resource consumption and emissions, especially related to off-site waste 
disposal, greenhouse gases and imported soil. During and after the project, FMC 
will continue to operate and maintain an existing groundwater extraction and 
treatment system, which prevents impacted groundwater from discharging into  
the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Embarking on this important redevelopment 
project will reduce environmental impacts and contribute to the economic growth 
of Baltimore.REMEDIATION AND BENEFICIAL REUSE OF OUR LEGACY SITES 
Conceptual designs of the Newark, California siteConceptual designs of the Baltimore, Maryland siteFMC’s approach to remediation focuses on transforming legacy sites, where possible, into usable spaces where people and ecosystems can thrive. Here are examples of two sites that  
are in various stages of completion:
37
FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR CONCLUSIONS
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2020 data for the specified 
indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria.
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
Our objective was to assess whether the 2020 data for the specified indicators are reported in accordance 
with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organization) and accuracy (including 
calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation).  
We planned and performed our work to obtain all information and explanations that we believe were 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.  
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: 
• Interviews with relevant corporate staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and 
processes (including systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the data 
for the specified indicators;
• A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors;
• Virtual site visits to FMC operations in Barra Mansa, Brazil; Manati, Puerto Rico; Mobile, USA; Panoli, 
India; Stine, USA; and Ungaran, Indonesia to review local reporting processes and consistency of 
reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant 
staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local 
internal quality and assurance processes;
• An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the 
corporate data consolidation;
• Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review procedures and the 
completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the specified indicators from the site data; and
• A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure 
consistency with our findings.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods 
for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our 
assurance conclusions in this context. Our independent assurance statement provides no assurance on the 
maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether 
any changes may have occurred to the information since it was first published. 
Due to travel restrictions relating to COVID-19, our assurance activities consisted of desktop reviews of 
data and related information, and virtual meetings and interviews with FMC personnel responsible for the 
content of the 2020 FMC Sustainability Report. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO FMC CORPORATION
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) to provide 
limited assurance in relation to the specified 2020 environmental, health and safety data in the 2020 FMC 
Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) and on https://fmcsustainability.com/data-gri/ as set out below.
ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY RELATED TO 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND IMPLEMENTED 
TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST. ERM 
CVS AND THE STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN WORK ON THIS ASSURANCE EXERCISE PROVIDE NO CONSULTANCY 
RELATED SERVICES TO FMC CORPORATION IN ANY RESPECT. ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Beth Wyke,  Partner, Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
21 May 2021 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London www.ermcvs.com; Email: post@ermcvs.com
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Scope of our
assurance
engagementWhether FMC’s 2020 data for the following environmental (absolute and intensity) and safety 
indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria:
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
GHG emissions
• Scope 1 GHG Emissions (from direct energy use) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based methodology) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Scope 2 GHG Emissions (market-based methodology) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Total GHG Emissions (location-based and market-based methodologies) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• GHG Intensity [Tonnes CO2e/Tonne of Production]
Energy
• Total Energy Use [Terajoules]
• Energy Intensity [GJ/Tonne of Production]
• Total Renewable Energy [Terajoules]
Water
• Total Water Use [Million Cubic Meters]
• Total High Risk Water Use [Million Cubic Meters]
• High Risk Water Intensity [Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production]
Production
• Total Production [Kilotonne of Production]
Waste
• Total Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Waste Disposed Intensity [Kg/Tonne of Production]
• Total Hazardous Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Non-Hazardous Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Hazardous Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Total Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Total Waste for beneficial use [Kilotonnes]
Safety data
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Reporting
criteriaWBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, updated 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  
(excluding refrigerants and process emissions); FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions 
Assurance
standardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).  
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective
responsibilitiesFMC is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the 
information within it.  
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance 
activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. 
38
Pierre R. Brondeau  
Chairman, FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro  
Former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
and President, Americas Region, Cabot Corporation
Carol Anthony (John) Davidson  
Former Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief 
Accounting Officer, Tyco International
Mark Douglas  
President and Chief Executive Officer, FMC CorporationC. Scott Greer  
Principal, Greer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson  
Former Chief Executive Officer, President and  
Executive Chair, Elevance Renewable Sciences Inc.
Dirk A. Kempthorne  
Retired President and Chief Executive Officer,  
American Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris  
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  
W. R. Grace & Co.Margareth Øvrum  
Retired President, Equinor Brazil  
Retired Executive Vice President,  
Development & Production, Brazil, Equinor ASA
Robert C. Pallash  
Retired President, Global Customer, Group and  
Senior Vice President, Visteon Corporation
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr.  
Chairman, CEO, President and Principal,  
LeHavre Athletic ClubBOARD OF DIRECTORS
Diane Allemang  
Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer
Brian P . Angeli  
Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Precision 
Agriculture
Brian J. Blair  
Vice President, Treasurer
William F. Chester  
Vice President, Global Tax
Barry J. Crawford  
Vice President, Operations
Kenneth A. Gedaka  
Vice President, Communications and Public AffairsThaisa Hugenneyer  
Vice President, Procurement and Global Facilities
Marc L. Hullebroeck  
President, FMC EMEA
David A. Kotch  
Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Susanne M. Lingard  
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
Kyle Matthews  
Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Ronaldo Pereira  
President, FMC AmericasNicholas L. Pfeiffer  
Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief 
Accounting Officer 
Kathleen A. Shelton  
Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
Bethwyn Todd  
President, FMC Asia Pacific
Karen M. Totland  
Vice President, Chief Sustainability Officer
Shawn R. Whitman  
Vice President, Government AffairsFMC OFFICERSMark Douglas  
President and Chief Executive OfficerAndrew D. Sandifer  
Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial OfficerMichael F. Reilly  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel,  
Secretary and Chief Compliance OfficerEXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
RESILIENT. READY.39FMC 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC’S INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT UNGC PRINCIPLES
Human 
RightsPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the 
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Human Rights in the Supply  
Chain training• Supplier code of conduct 
• Supplier screening process
Principle 2: Make sure that businesses are not complicit 
in human rights abuses.• Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct
• Sexual harassment prevention campaign
LaborPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 
association and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining.• Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of 
employment and occupation.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
• FMC Employee Resource Groups• New representation goals
• Diversity Task forces • Regional inclusion councils 
• D&I training for leadership
EnvironmentPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary 
approach to environmental challenges.• CDP climate change module submission
• Climate change statement • Environmental risk assessments for 
agricultural products 
• Sustainability assessments for products  
in R&D pipeline• Adherence to stringent  
regulatory frameworks
Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater 
environmental responsibility.• CDP climate change module submission
• Responsible Care®• 2030 environmental goals and progress • Product Stewardship programs
Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies.• Precision agriculture
• ArcTM farm intelligence• Evalio® AgroSystems
• Plant health products• Seed treatment products
• Sustainability assessments for products  
in R&D pipeline
Anti 
CorruptionPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption 
in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.• Ethics on-line training course
• The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) 
compliance standard process • Training of FMC organization and FMC’s  
key third parties
• Anti-trust compliance campaign for  
FMC employees• FCPA audits 
• Code of Ethics and Business ConductFMC became a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This is our sixth Communication on Progress indicating our activities and management systems in support of the UNGC principles.  
More information on our initiatives to support the UNGC principles can be found on www.fmc.com/sustainability 
WE SUPPOR TUNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
Communication on Progress40
STOCKHOLDER DATA
FMC, the FMC logo, Overwatch, Isoflex, Accudo, Legend, Seamac, Vantacor, Rynaxypyr and Fyfanon are 
trademarks of FMC Corporation and/or an affiliate. ©2021 FMC Corporation. All rights reserved.
Other than FMC's, company names and logos mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. 
Always read and follow all label directions, restrictions and precautions for use. Overwatch® herbicide, Accudo™ 
biostimulant, Legend™ organic fertilizer and Seamac™ Rhizo biostimulant may not be registered for sale or use  
in all states and jurisdictions.FMC Corporation is an active participant in the American Chemistry Council (ACC) and we support the principles 
of the ACC’s Responsible Care® Program by working with our employees, suppliers, customers, contractors and 
commercial partners to promote responsible management of our products and processes through their entire 
life cycle, and for their intended use, worldwide. FMC undergoes third-party review and certification of our 
conformance with the Responsible Care Management System requirements at our headquarters offices and all 
of our sites located in the United States. For additional information on our Responsible Care Program, please go 
to www.FMC.com. 
Responsible Care® is a service mark of American Chemistry Council, Inc.COPYRIGHT © 2021, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.FMC Corporation  
FMC Tower at Cira Centre South  
2929 Walnut Street  
Philadelphia, PA 19104  
USA
FMC.com
