2018 Sustainability ReportCULTIVATING
tomorrowMESSAGE
from our Chief Executive Officer
Our Journey to An Agricultural  
Sciences Company
During the last 10 years, we took several important actions 
to transform FMC from a highly diversified chemical company into an enterprise focused on crop protection. We launched a Plant Health platform that extended our portfolio into crop nutrition, seed treatment and biologicals; we increased investments in technology and R&D to strengthen and expand our product pipeline; we opened new innovation centers around the world; and we made several strategic acquisitions to broaden our agricultural sciences business.
Acquiring DuPont’s crop protection assets in late 2017 was a 
final, critical step in our journey. Following the transaction, we moved quickly to integrate the regional commercial teams, R&D, regulatory and other functions. We have been very pleased with the pace and results of our integration efforts.
FMC Values
In a year marked with integration-related changes, our employees remained true to what makes FMC a special company. Our six Core Values define who we 
are and how we do business: Integrity, Safety, 
Sustainability, Respect for People, Agility 
and Customer Centricity. Collectively, 
these values guide us as individuals and as a team of 6,500 people around the world. You can learn more about 
our Core Values in this report and at 
FMC.com. I will comment briefly on 
three of them.Safety remains paramount at FMC, and employees 
continue to demonstrate their commitment to a safe and 
secure workplace. We ended 2018 with an injury rate of 
0.11, the lowest rate ever for FMC. Our employees believe 
that a zero-injury workplace is highly achievable, and 
they are committed to proving it every day.
Sustainability, a core value at both FMC and at the 
acquired DuPont crop protection business, continues to inform and guide our company. As you will read in this report, we focus primarily on three areas:
 ▶Creating innovative solutions while preserving  the environment for tomorrow.
 ▶Making a positive impact on the communities where we live and work.
 ▶Stewarding the responsible use of our products.
Respect for People is a business imperative at FMC. We embrace, leverage and respect the diversity of our workforce, our customers and our communities. In 2018, we created a new senior leadership role to oversee Diversity and Inclusion to ensure we have strategic focus on driving actions that foster an inclusive culture. 
Separating the Lithium Business
Our Lithium business began trading as Livent Corporation on the New York Stock Exchange on October 11, 2018. Full separation of Livent was completed in March 2019. We wish our Livent colleagues continued success as an independent company.
Growing Our Future
Today’s FMC has the right technologies, products, market focus and global infrastructure to grow to a $6 billion crop protection leader by 2023, focused on advanced synthetic chemistries and biologicals. We will invest nearly $2 billion in R&D over the next five years and expect to grow our company more than twice the anticipated growth rate of the crop protection market during the same period.
We have made great progress to transform FMC into an 
agricultural sciences company. All of us are proud to be a part of this next exciting chapter.
Pierre R. Brondeau
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
FMC CORPORATION
Rapeseed (Canola),  
Brassica napusOur Products  24
 ▶Benefits of crop protection products
 ▶2018 progress on innovation goals
 ▶From R&D to the grower
 ▶Examples of technologies in our sustainable portfolio
 ▶Product stewardship
Our Progress   32
 ▶2018 progress on community engagement goals 
 ▶Redevelopment of one of our remediation sites
 ▶Reducing transportation emissions 
 ▶A sustainable supply chain 
 ▶External sustainability advisory council
 ▶2018 progress on environmental goals 
Assurance Statement   38
Board of Directors, Chairman’s Committee and FMC Officers   39
UN Global Compact Communication on Progress   40TABLE OF CONTENTS
Organizational Profile   02
Update on Our Goals   03
2018 Progress Report and 2019 Commitments   04
Q+A with Mark Douglas, our President and Chief Operating Officer   05
Our Purpose  06
 ▶FMC core business principles, values and areas of focus
 ▶Integration update
 ▶Materiality assessment
 ▶Stakeholder engagement
Our Processes   10
 ▶Sustainability governance
 ▶Testing and registration process
 ▶Business process modernization
 ▶Ethics and compliance
Our People   14
 ▶2018 progress on safety goals
 ▶Safety awards and programs
 ▶Talent management
 ▶Diversity and inclusion
ABOUT THIS REPORT
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE  
This report and our web-based content at www.FMCsustainability.com has been 
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Please find the detailed  GRI Content Index on the website. EXPLORE FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM 
We invite you to explore our website for more information and data that highlight how we are Cultivating Tomorrow through our commitment to sustainability. The online data center lets you visualize and interact with our data to understand FMC’s impacts. You can explore our resources to access FMC reports and videos related to our sustainability programs as well as FMC policies and statements on several important topics including climate change, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), human rights, supplier code of conduct and animal welfare.2
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ORGANIZATIONAL  
PROFILE
Revenue by Region
23% 25%
28% 24%Europe, 
Middle East 
+ AfricaNorth 
America
Latin 
AmericaAsia PacificFMC CORPORATION:  
AN AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES COMPANY
FMC has transformed from a highly diversified chemical 
company into an enterprise focused on crop protection. 
Acquiring DuPont’s Crop Protection assets was the 
largest transaction in FMC’s history, transforming our product portfolio. The acquisition returned our company to discovery research, expanded our innovation infrastructure, strengthened our R&D pipeline and significantly enhanced our capabilities to develop proprietary active ingredients.
FMC LITHIUM
The Lithium business began trading as Livent Corporation on the New York Stock Exchange on October 11, 2018. The successful Initial Public Offering of approximately 16 percent of Livent was the culmination of intensive year-long preparations. Full separation of 
For the year ending December 31, 2018,  
FMC Corporation recorded the  
following results:
FMC AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
• Full-year segment revenue: $4.3 billion
• Full-year segment EBITDA: $1.2 billion
FMC LITHIUM
• Full-year segment revenue: $443 million
• Full-year segment EBITDA: $196 million2018 Financial  
Performance Summary
ANNUAL
SALES
(billions)
RETURN ON
INVESTED 
CAPITALADJUSTED 
EBITDA 
(billions)
GAAP 
EARNINGS
Per Share$4.7
16.6*%$1.3*
$3.69
$6.29*
$512ADJUSTED 
EARNINGS
Per Share
GAAP NET 
INCOME
(millions)
Almonds,  
Prunus dulcisLivent through a spinoff of the remaining approximately 
84 percent to FMC shareholders in the form of a dividend of Livent shares was completed in March 2019. 
FMC REPORTING AND  
CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES
The environmental and safety data in this report include all sites under FMC’s operational control in the 2018 calendar year, including Lithium sites and sites acquired from DuPont in 2017 as well as environmental data supplied by active ingredient contract manufacturers (except where noted).
*Represents a Non-GAAP financial term. For definitions  
  and other information, please refer to our website.Energy Intensity
Greenhouse Gas (GHG)  
Emissions Intensity
Waste Disposed Intensity
Water Intensity in High Risk Locations
3
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
UPDATE ON  
OUR GOALS
2018
PROGRESS2018
PROGRESS2018PROGRESS
2018 Results toward   
2020 Goals
UNITED NATIONS SDG FMC INITIATIVES 2018 Progress toward  
the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) SDG 2 – Zero Hunger•  Products that increase crop yields 
•  Products that ensure a quality food supply•  Technologies that contribute to resilient agricultural practices 
SDG 15 – Life on Land•  Technologies that save water and fuel and reduce GHG emissions and  
    soil compaction
•  Products that increase crop yields thus preserving land from being 
    converted to farmland
•  Targeted and low application products•  Biological products•  Continued commitment to R&D spending on developing sustainable products
METRIC 2018 RESULTS 2025 GOAL (vs. 2013 Baseline ) 2018 Results toward   
2025 Goals
*Includes safety data from newly acquired sitesProgress on our goals reported below reflects only legacy FMC Agricultural Solutions entities (except where noted).  
New sustainability goals will be announced in 2019 and will be inclusive of both legacy FMC and DuPont. 4
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Progress Report   
on our 2018 Commitments
Align FMC’s approach to the Major Global 
Challenges with the UN SDGs and prioritize two  of the goals to ensure we make positive impact.
Merge product stewardship and sustainability 
assessment tools from FMC and DuPont’s Crop Protection businesses to ensure sustainable innovation of new products.
Conduct pre-assurance of key environmental and 
safety data from newly acquired DuPont sites as part of integration.
Implement pilot employee engagement 
programs in Asia to help embed sustainability in everyday activities across our global offices.Reset innovation, business practice and operations goals and targets as FMC Agricultural Solutions and Lithium become two separate businesses as we continue our sustainability journey. 
Continue to measure our global logistics 
footprint to better understand and reduce our impacts and risks.
Complete sustainability training for Lithium and 
North America Agricultural Solutions commercial teams, providing sustainability tools and resources they can use with our customers. 
Continue utilizing the External Sustainability 
Advisory Council to help shape FMC’s global sustainability strategy.Expand the Diversity and Inclusion plan to promote talent development and increased employee engagement. 
Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy 
dependency by exploring options for renewable energy sourcing.
Implement a sustainability program for the 
Lithium business as it continues its progress as  a standalone company. 
Conduct Life Cycle Assessments of lithium 
hydroxide to better inform our customers of the advantages of FMC supply.
completed in progress not started yet postponed
2019 Commitments
Update innovation, business practice and operations goals and targets for FMC.
Continue utilizing the External Sustainability 
Advisory Council to help shape FMC’s global sustainability strategy.
Continue to measure our global logistics 
footprint to better understand and reduce our impacts and risks.
Support Diversity and Inclusion efforts both 
internally (through Employee Resource Groups) and externally (through corporate affiliate groups and academia).
Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy 
dependency by exploring options for renewable energy sourcing.
Identify opportunities to improve our 
sustainability reporting in line with CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and other reporting frameworks.
Incorporate sustainability matrices in the Capital 
Deployment Plan.
Conduct initial Scope 3 GHG emissions assessment.Conduct Life Cycle Assessments for newly 
acquired active ingredients (e.g. Rynaxypyr
® 
active ingredient, Cyazypyr® active ingredient 
and indoxacarb).
Corn,  
Zea mays5
CULTIVATING TOMORROWQ+A 
with Mark Douglas, our President and Chief Operating Officer
How are you integrating sustainability into 
FMC’s strategic growth plan? 
Sustainability is a core value for FMC. We are growing 
the company at a strong rate, and we’re doing it with sustainable development at the forefront. Our singular focus on agricultural sciences means that FMC can further impact the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of “zero hunger.” Every day, our teams work to deliver solutions to farmers that help them protect and increase their crop yields. 
Are you resetting your sustainability goals 
now that you’re a focused Agricultural Sciences company?
I am very proud of the progress we’ve made on our 
innovation, safety, community engagement and environmental goals over the past four years. For example, we’ve significantly reduced our environmental footprint from our manufacturing sites and we’re committed to continuing to drive improvement. 
Over the past several months we have been working to 
update our sustainability targets to reflect the long-  
term goals of our new business and product portfolio. We will be announcing our new 2025 and 2030 targets later in 2019. How is climate change affecting your 
business and how are you addressing it?
We see that global weather patterns are 
different and more extreme than what growers have experienced over past generations. The extremes of flooding and drought are impacting our growers more frequently, and pest pressures are also shifting as a result. 
To support growers’ changing needs, we 
carefully track pest pressures to facilitate products that can help with emerging diseases and pests. For example, we have years of historical data about how soybean rust is evolving in Brazil, which is immensely valuable in our efforts to combat that damaging disease in all parts of the world. 
How does FMC help smallholder 
farmers be successful?
Farmers all over the world use our portfolio 
of products containing Rynaxypyr® active 
ingredient. These products are highly effective 
at controlling some of the most damaging 
pests, like stem borers and leaf miners that can 
devastate crops on a small farm in a very short 
Mark Douglas
President and Chief Operating Officer
FMC CORPORATIONamount of time. Through Rynaxypyr® active ingredient 
use, smallholder farmers have had life-changing crop 
yield increases, in some cases allowing them to build 
new homes for their families and invest in the future 
of their farms. 
I look forward to partnering with smallholder 
farmers as we introduce new precision 
agriculture crop protection solutions. Many 
of the emerging technologies will enable 
growers to be much more efficient with 
their time and resources, which can make 
a major difference in a family’s farm 
income and quality of life. 
What do you see in the future  
of agriculture? 
Emerging technologies in precision 
agriculture offer growers highly detailed 
data about their fields, allowing them to 
make better informed and more customized 
decisions than ever before. I’m excited about 
the future of biological crop protection and 
plant health. Farmers are increasingly able 
to augment their synthetic crop protection 
programs with biological options that are highly 
selective, and support resistance management 
and sustainable agriculture. 
FMC is an agricultural sciences company that advances farming through innovative 
and sustainable crop protection technologies. From our industry-leading discovery 
pipeline to our cutting-edge application systems and modern biological products, we are passionate about bringing new solutions to growers around the world. For more than 130 years, we have been rooted in agriculture and innovation. Today’s FMC continues to earn the trust of growers and industry partners to maximize their productivity, profitability and sustainability.
...let us commit to a world without hunger, a world in which every 
person has access to a healthy, nutritious diet. Zero Hunger is about 
joining forces. Countries and companies, institutions and individuals: 
we must each do our part towards sustainable food systems.”“ –António Guterres  | United Nations Secretary-Generalour 
PURPOSE7
CULTIVATING TOMORROWFMC is a company driven by innovation and committed to 
discovering new active ingredients, product formulations  and application technologies. We are guided by core  business principles:
 ▶Discover and develop sustainable technology to solve 
evolving crop protection needs.
 ▶Commit to exceed customer expectations through collaboration, speed and agility.
 ▶Doing business with us should be simple and easy.
 ▶Operate with strict financial rigor for the benefit of our 
customers, employees and investors.
INTEGRATION OF FMC & DUPONT
Throughout 2018 we continued to integrate business processes, 
commercial teams and various functions from both legacy FMC and DuPont. Integration efforts focused on pace of work, breadth and depth of roles and combining our complementary strengths around marketing and customer intimacy.
A working team of senior leaders across the company developed 
our core values and behaviors based on the input gathered through a cultural assessment survey from employees of both legacy FMC and DuPont. Senior leaders gathered small groups of employees, including change champions across the world, to get feedback on how the values and behaviors would resonate with our workforce. We have developed a 2019 plan to communicate with and engage employees on our core values as part of the new FMC narrative.1
2
3
4
TECHNOLOGYEMPOWERED 
COUNTRIES FOCUS ON CHEMISTRY SIMPLICITYMARKET-DRIVEN INNOVATION 
Aggressively promote our 
current portfolio and accelerate 
new active ingredients and 
formulations to meet growers’ 
evolving needsOperate a globally aligned, regionally focused business 
model where local commercial strategy and execution is directed 
at the region- and country-levelInvest significantly in R&D 
to discover and develop new 
technologies in chemical and 
biological crop protectionEnsure our tools, processes and 
organizational structure allow 
us to be agile, efficient and easy to do business withEngage customers and partners to identify, develop 
and deliver solutions that meet 
the unique needs of a specific 
region or country
• We do things the right way –  
ethically and in compliance with laws – regardless of circumstances 
• We keep our commitments, building trust with customers, shareholders, the community and each other
• We take responsibility for our actions, regardless of the outcome
• We empower informed risk-taking, celebrating successes and learning from mistakes
• We develop the knowledge and abilities of our people to best serve their careers and our customers
• We create an inclusive environment where diverse views, backgrounds and experiences are key to our success• Every action we take is guided by our TH!NK. SAFE. Manifesto
• We empower employees to always put safety first
• We help others to be safe – at work, at home and on the road 
• We are action-oriented, delivering results without sacrificing safety or quality
• We pursue continuous innovation not only in our products and processes, but in the experiences we deliver 
• We are collaborative, fast  and nimble• We create innovative solutions while preserving the environment for tomorrow
• We make a positive impact on  the communities where we live and work
• We steward the responsible use  of our products
• We cultivate long-term customer relationships and put their needs at the center of everything we do
• We understand our customers’ business, and provide solutions to their most pressing challenges
• We measure our success in terms of our customers’ successINTEGRITY
RESPECT FOR 
PEOPLESAFETY
AGILITYSUSTAINABILITY 
CUSTOMER  
CENTRICITYOur Core Values and Behaviors
FMC’s core values and behaviors are the foundation of our organization.
Over the next five years, we will succeed by focusing on five priorities:8
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEthics & 
corruptionRESULTS OF OUR 2018  
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 
The results of our materiality assessment which define 
topics that are most important for our agricultural business are indicated in the matrix to the right. This assessment was accomplished through a series of interviews, meetings and surveys with internal and external stakeholders. Internal stakeholders included people from the following groups: executives, legal counsel, environment, health and safety, commercial, human resources, enterprise risk, finance, sustainability, procurement, facilities and communications. External stakeholders included representatives from customers, academia, investors, consultants, government, trade associations and non-government organizations. We analyzed 32 potential material topics grouped into the five categories (marketplace, operations, workplace, environment and community).FMC Materiality Assessment
MarketplaceINCREASING IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
INCREASING IMPORTANCE TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
TOPIC CATEGORIES
Operations
Workplace
Environment
CommunityThe key topics indicated in 
the top right section of the matrix were identified as the most important for FMC 
with both strong internal 
and external stakeholder alignment. Throughout this report, details are provided on actions we are taking to positively impact these topics.Product safety & 
communications
Employee health, 
safety & well-being
Environmental complianceProcess safety & accident/  
emergency managementProduct  
stewardship
Sustainable 
innovation & R&D
Human  
rightsAir qualityWaste & effluent managementPublic access  
& safety
Land &  
indigenous rightsSupplier policies  
& assessments
Land usePublic policy  
& lobbyingCorporate citizenship  
& philanthropyCorporate governanceWorkplace 
environment  
& culture
Resilience  
planning
Biodiversity impacts & conservation
Climate change mitigation  
(GHG emissions)Water sourcing 
& use
Community  
relationsGlobal food 
supply
Energy  
type & useMaterials 
sourcing & 
efficiency
Labor rights  
& relationsDiversity, equity  
& inclusionEmployee education  
& trainingStakeholder engagementSecurity practicesTransparency  
& reporting
Wheat,  
Triticum aestivum9
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Stakeholder engagement is essential to identify 
important initiatives, issues and trends for FMC. We regularly meet with several stakeholder groups. Taking their feedback into account is vital as FMC continues to evolve and grow. The table to the right indicates our main stakeholder groups, how we engage them and examples of key topics.STAKEHOLDER 
GROUPCHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY KEY TOPICS COVERED
EmployeesTown Hall meetings
Reports, email blasts, videos
Surveys
Training
Social mediaQuarterly
Monthly
Annually
Annually 
Weekly• Integration of legacy FMC and DuPont employees  
and processes
• Safety
Prospective employeesSustainability Report
Annual ReportSocial mediaAnnuallyAnnuallyWeekly
• Sustainability is highly regarded when considering 
employment at FMC
CustomersMeetings
Innovation collaboration
Industry partnershipsQuarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly• Innovation
• Pollinator safety 
• Product stewardship
SuppliersSupplier auditsSupplier surveys
Code of ConductBiannually
Quarterly
Monthly• Fair wages and labor
• Sustainability goals
• Responsible care
InvestorsRatings/rankings and indicesConference callsSurveysInvestor DayAnnuallyQuarterlyAnnuallyBiannually
• The new FMC and our strategic growth plan
• The benefits of pesticides
• The sustainability of new products
Local communitiesDonations to local organizations
Employee volunteers
Community Advisory PanelsQuarterly
Monthly
Quarterly• Hunger 
• Motorcycle safety in Asia
• Clean drinking water systems
Regulators and public 
policy makersMeetings
Risk assessments and studiesMonthlyRegularly• Endangered species
• Product stewardship
• Science-based evaluations
• Safety and environmental standards
Non-government 
organizations (NGOs)In-person meetings/conference calls
Survey responses
Policies and best practicesAs needed
Bi-annually
As needed• Biodiversity decline
• Secondary standards
• UN Sustainable Development Goals
Industry associationsLeading/participating on committees 
and working groups
Advocacy  Bi-monthly
As needed• Responsible care
• Product stewardship
• Sustainability
AcademiaWharton Initiative for Global 
Environmental Leadership
StudiesAs needed
As needed• Climate change
• Innovation
• Efficacy
• Biodiversity
Onion,  
Allium cepaour 
PROCESSESCorporate governance and processes form the foundation of our work at FMC. As a global 
company, we believe these elements are essential in guiding organizational and employee behavior across the world to achieve our goals.
The quest for food security can be the common thread  
that links the different challenges we face and helps  
build a sustainable future.”“–José Graziano da Silva  
  | United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Director-General FMC has strong sustainability governance and robust 
processes that drive our success and the sustainability of our product portfolio. We continue to integrate processes from legacy DuPont and FMC and to develop new standards to support our businesses and functions. This section describes our governance and some of our key processes.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AT FMC
Our sustainability governance structure consists of two main bodies — the Board of Directors Sustainability Committee and the Executive Sustainability Steering Team. They meet three to four times per year to review progress on goals, new initiatives, commitments and challenges. They recommend actions, as necessary, to ensure continuous performance improvement and alignment with constituent expectations (both internal and external). In addition to these formal committees, communication is encouraged throughout the organization to help drive progress.
TESTING AND REGISTRATION PROCESS 
FOR CROP PROTECTION PRODUCTS
Today’s pesticides are the results of many years of 
scientific research and testing. To bring a new pesticide to market, it takes roughly $286 million USD and 11 years of research and development. Manufacturers must follow stringent product development criteria, whereby an average of 160,000 chemical molecules are analyzed to find the best product that is safe for use. 
Pesticides are among the most tested and regulated 
products in the world. In fact, more tests are required for pesticides than for pharmaceuticals. They are tested extensively to ensure their safety for people, wildlife and the environment. The tests take into account the potential for sensitive windows of exposure (e.g., pregnancy and puberty) and vulnerable populations   (e.g., pregnant or nursing women, the very young or very old), ensuring high margins of safety. 
These tests, based on internationally accepted regulatory 
guidelines, are sufficiently robust to support regulatory risk assessments. Products are only approved by authorities and placed on the market if thorough testing and evaluation show they do not pose unacceptable  risks. Once approved, these products often require  re-registration about every 10 years or when new scientific information becomes available. 
Scientists are constantly developing new products and re-
evaluating existing products based on safety and efficacy. Older products that had high risk with normal use, which could not be mitigated, have been voluntarily restricted or withdrawn from the marketplace.
11
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
Apples,  
MalusTesting & Regulation of Pesticides
Learn more at  
www.PesticideFacts.org
150 STUDIESTHEN THEY 
CONDUCT MORE THAN
160,000SCIENTISTS SCREEN 
AN AVERAGE OF
MOLECULESdesigned and validated 
by regulatory authorities  
TO ENSURE THE MOLECULE 
IS DEVELOPED INTO A 
PRODUCT THAT IS
JUST TO FIND ONE with 
the RIGHT PROPERTIES 
to address a pest  
problem and meet 
international 
requirements.SAFE + EFFECTIVE.
Then products must be RE-REGISTERED 
REGULARLY to stay in line with regulations.11 YEARS  
+  
$286 MILLION USD OVERALL, IT TAKES ROUGHLY
of RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT  
to bring a pesticide to market.“Pesticides are among the 
most tested and regulated 
products in the world.”New pesticides are selected from discovery to be 
more environmentally friendly than their decades-old 
predecessors. Newer molecules do not persist in the environment or bioaccumulate in the human body or wildlife.
To the right are Critical Areas of Protection that we 
investigate when developing a new product:
BUSINESS PROCESS MODERNIZATION
The Business Process Modernization (BPM) program is transforming FMC’s business processes and systems to follow best-in-class industry standards. The BPM team is implementing an intelligent enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution that will enable FMC to capture greater opportunity in today’s digital world. Below are the main 
objectives of BPM: 
 ▶Scalability and 
flexibility | Creating a landscape that works efficiently today while having the flexibility for growth for tomorrow. 
 ▶Simplicity | Using 
the industry-standard processes that are proven to streamline the way FMC works. 
 ▶Reliable, real-time 
data | Driving data excellence through safeguards and master data governance. 
 ▶Faster, better decision-making | Delivering reporting and analytics that will better inform leadership on key decisions and supporting an agile business. 
THAISA HUGENNEYER, 
DIRECTOR, BPM   
“The BPM program is a journey toward 
building a truly modern company. It will ensure that our employees have 
the right tools and processes to enable 
success and growth. It’s a very exciting time for FMC.”
12
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCritical Areas of Protection   
that we investigate when developing a new product:
TOXICOLOGY 
Studies the adverse effects of the 
substance in mammals to assess 
potential effects in humans. While animal testing is required under many global regulations to ensure sound knowledge of the substance and its safety to humans, we follow a strict Animal Welfare Policy to minimize animal testing whenever possible and ensure the welfare of the animals according to strict global guidelines.
DIETARY SAFETY
Evaluate the exposure to the human population, including sensitive 
populations (e.g., infants, children) from potential residues of substances (including metabolites and impurities) in food and drinking water to ensure the levels, if any, are safe to consumers. Residue data can include food crops, processed commodities, rotational crops, animal feed, pollen, nectar and honey. 
ENVIRONMENTAL FATE 
Studies the fate and behavior, metabolism and distribution of 
substances in the environment and looks at its 
effect on soil/sediment,   w ater, groundwater and air. 
We also evaluate the substance’s movement in   th e 
environment such as runoff, leaching and drift.ECOTOXICOLOGY
Looks at the effects the substance may have (either directly or indirectly) on 
organisms in the environment. Organisms include: birds, fish, mammals, non-target plants, pollinators, non-target arthropods, earthworms, Collembola, soil microbes, Daphnia, shrimp, oysters, etc.
OCCUPATIONAL +  
BYSTANDER EXPOSURE
Evaluates the potential to workers and 
bystanders resulting from the manufacture and use of substances and determines the necessary protective equipment needed to ensure safety.
PRODUCT CHEMISTRY
Determines the physical chemical properties of the substance (e.g., 
solubility, partitioning, volatility, etc.) that aid in understanding the nature of the substance as well as ensuring safe storage, transport, use and disposal of the substance.
BIOLOGY AND USE 
DIRECTIONS
Determines how a product should be 
used in the field to ensure efficacy and crop safety. 
Includes assessment of potential for resistance and proposed mitigations to reduce the potential.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
FMC has a longstanding commitment to ethics and 
compliance. During 2018, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance team focused on increased and deeper communications supporting that commitment, as well as strengthening our compliance processes. Awareness campaigns were conducted that emphasized Data Privacy, Conflicts of Interest and Anti-Corruption. To broaden engagement and communications, we formed a global team of  
Ethics and Compliance ambassadors who are leaders from all regions of the world. The ambassadors support FMC’s Law Department to drive messaging deeper into local organizations, provide feedback to the Ethics Office on local concerns, and advocate for ethics and compliance locally.In late 2018, we launched the inaugural FMC Ethics and Compliance Achievement Awards. The FMC Ethics Office received almost 80 nominations from all around the world. The nominations demonstrated very encouraging and enthusiastic support for ethics and compliance across FMC and identified true champions of good behavior throughout the company. 
In 2019, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance Team is leading 
several initiatives including: 
 ▶A new and improved Global Ethics and Compliance Learning Management System.
 ▶Awareness and training campaigns focusing  on Anti-Trust Compliance, Sexual Harassment,  Careful Communications, and Intellectual  Property Protection. 
 ▶Updating key FMC policies.
 ▶Enhancement of the FMC Policies and  Standards platform. 
 ▶Providing internal FMC Ethics and  Compliance news.
13
CULTIVATING TOMORROWFMC Ethics and Compliance 
Achievement Award Winners
Corn,  
Zea mays
IRENE DIP  
(North America)
For establishing new processes for the 
Registration, Evaluation, Authorization 
and Restrictions of Chemicals (REACH) 
and Toxic Substances Control Act 
(TSCA) compliance.
ANALBERY CORREA   
(Latin America)
For revising agreements not in 
accordance with FMC policies and for 
speaking up in support of FMC internal 
policies and when she saw disrespect  
in the workplace. 
ERIN LIU  
(Co-Winner Asia-Pacific)
For helping to keep financial compliance top-of-mind and 
increasing employees’ awareness  
of policies and procedures. 
VISKANTO ADI PRABOWO   
(Co-Winner Asia-Pacific)
For setting a strong tone at-the-top as 
the leader of the Surabaya, Indonesia 
plant site and demonstrating a 
commitment to the highest standards 
of ethical behavior.
KATHRYN PEOVER   
(EMEA)
For taking several actions in support 
of ethics and compliance, including 
raffling small gifts received from 
vendors to employees. 
I’m very conscious of the fact that you can’t do it alone. It’s teamwork. 
When you do it alone you run the risk that when you are no longer 
there nobody else will do it.”“–Wangari Maathai  | Founder of the Green Belt Movement and 2004 Nobel Peace Prize Laureateour 
PEOPLEFMC’s success comes from our most important resource - our people. We create an environment where employees 
flourish and can achieve their highest potential. The backbone of this responsibility is our commitment to safety.  
At FMC, we foster a culture that provides a safe and secure workplace.SAFETY
Safety is a core value for FMC. Throughout 2018, our 
employees continued to demonstrate their commitment to a safe and secure workplace. Our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2018 was 0.11, the lowest rate ever for FMC and well below our 2020 goal. We are proud to be one of the safest companies among our industry peers.
15
CULTIVATING TOMORROWTRIR Results
BY YEAR
.51 .51
2014 2015.22
2016.18
2017 2018TRIR2020
GOAL
(.30)
GUADALAJARACALGARY
BANGPOO
PASURUANHONG KONGMIDDLEPORT
JINSHANSHANGHAISAN COLOMBANO
SYDNEYFLINTSHIRECOPHENHAGEN
MANILA
CAMPINASPAULINIAHYDERABAD
UBERABALAHORE*NAMBSHEIM
SONG THANMOBILE
JAKARTAUNGARANSUZHOU
SURABAYAPUDONG
TUASCORK
WYONGBARRA MANSAMUMBAICHEBOKSARY
MADRIDUFFHOLTZ
PHILADELPHIA
SAVLISTADE
 ▶Bangpoo, Thailand
 ▶Barra Mansa, Brazil
 ▶Calgary, Canada
 ▶Lahore, Pakistan
 ▶Pudong, China
 ▶Song Than, Vietnam
 ▶Surabaya, Indonesia
 ▶Ungaran, Indonesia10+ YEARS
WITHOUT A RECORDABLE 
SAFETY INCIDENT AS OF 2018
KEY
2018 Site Excellence 
Award recipients
10+ years without 
a recordable safety incident in 2018
FMC Safety Awards and Accomplishments
The FMC Site Excellence Award recognizes sites that have achieved zero recordable injuries, 
zero critical process safety incidences, zero environmental notices of violation and positive EHS compliance audit results in the calendar year. In 2018, 39 sites were award recipients. In addition, eight sites have achieved 10 or more years without a recordable safety incident. 
Grapes,  
Vitis vinifera
*Both the Lahore manufacturing site and       
  regional office won site excellence awardsBANGALORE
.1116
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FMC SAFETY PROGRAMS IN 2018
FMC’s TH!NK. SAFE. manifesto is the heart of our 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) programs. TH!NK. SAFE. aims to change employee thinking and actions through interactive EHS programs which build a strong culture of safety. Under the umbrella of TH!NK. SAFE., FMC organized activities and programs throughout 2018 to increase awareness and improve performance.
Spreading FMC’s Safety Culture 
Integrating a strong safety culture into FMC’s newly 
acquired sites was a key focus in 2018. Across each of the newly acquired sites, we organized activities and events which showcased our commitment to a safe and secure work environment and encouraged our new colleagues to live these values. 
The “TH!NK. SAFE. Tuesday” campaign was launched 
company-wide with videos each Tuesday to familiarize our newly acquired sites with FMC’s commitment to safety. Prior to the video series, we distributed a digital library of downloadable TH!NK. SAFE. materials to introduce new employees to TH!NK. SAFE.Contractor Safety
Our commitment to safety extends beyond our 
employees to the wider FMC family including contractors. Third-party contractors form a significant part of our workforce – approximately 2,000 contractors work at FMC in any given month.
In 2018, FMC updated requirements for selection 
and management of contract companies and their employees working at FMC sites. The purpose is to protect FMC and contract employees from injuries and prevent process safety incidents.
Emergency Response Team at FMC Tower 
FMC is committed to the safety and well-being 
of all employees and visitors at our headquarters in Philadelphia. The Emergency Response Team (ERT) is a group of 23 individuals trained in first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external defibrillator usage who serve as the bridge to first responders. In the event of a medical emergency, ERT members are dispatched via text message to the location with the reported emergency. They evaluate the situation and render care until professional help arrives. In addition, they serve as emergency directors, ensuring people respond properly to fire alarms and shelter-in-place instructions. 
Global Regulatory Affairs Safety Program
FMC’s Global Regulatory Affairs team based in 
Philadelphia initiated a safety program that includes monthly safety meetings with presentations on safety topics as well as “walkabouts” to identify and address unsafe conditions and behaviors. Since this initiative began, employees from other teams have joined the meetings and have spread the word about the program. 
PICTURED ABOVE FROM LEFT TO RIGHT:  Jordan Edwards, FMC Unit 
Technology Leader; Perkins Fendley, President, PEP Board of Directors; and 
Chris McFarland, FMC Unit Technology Leader.
Environmental Stewardship  
Award for Mobile 
Our Mobile, Alabama, manufacturing plant was 
recognized by the Partners for Environmental Progress and awarded the Environmental Stewardship Award for having a significant positive contribution to environmental health in the Gulf Coast region. The team achieved this through safe and successful process recycle optimization projects, which delivered a significant reduction in hazardous waste generation and raw material consumption and decreased GHG emissions from reduced transportation of waste and raw materials.
Spotlight on Savli, India:
Our Savli site conducted a series of activities in January 2018 to kick off TH!NK. SAFE. for their site. Activities included learning and onboarding sessions, a public TH!NK. SAFE. manifesto pledge for employees to sign and distribution of  
TH!NK. SAFE. welcome packs including a pocket-sized manifesto.17
CULTIVATING TOMORROWFocus 60 Days 
Many injuries occur from the use of inadequate 
tools and equipment. To combat this FMC launched a “Focus 60 Days” campaign to share best safety practices. As part of this campaign, leaders and employees participated in weekly dialogs and identified opportunities for improvement. This reduced the number of misused tools as well as improved employees’ hazard recognition skills and prompted action to reduce future incidents. PROCESS SAFETY
Process Safety Management (PSM) is critically  important to FMC. We are dedicated to developing and enforcing robust systems and procedures for our employees across all global sites. Below are four initiatives FMC addressed in 2018 across the organization. 
Process Safety Information (PSI) – PSI contains  
details about materials, equipment and process 
technology. This information is used to support all other elements of PSM.
Process Hazard Analysis (PHA) – PHA is the systemic 
review of a process to identify and evaluate process hazards. We conducted PHAs for many legacy FMC processes including several at our largest manufacturing facility in Denmark. In addition, we revalidated several PHAs at our newly acquired sites. Process Hazard Level (PHL) Screening – PHL screening uses an internally developed methodology to identify the hazards of a process and then “right-size” the PSM systems to ensure both effective and efficient control of process hazards. During 2018, we applied this tool to the legacy Cheminova sites and added this data to that generated for legacy FMC sites. This helps us prioritize our process safety work.
External PSM Assessment – In 2018 we conducted 
an external PSM assessment for four newly acquired active ingredient sites from DuPont to ensure PSM management systems were in place and fully functional. We reviewed the quality of execution of several key process safety elements, including Management of Change, Process Safety Information, Process Hazard Analysis, Asset Integrity and Safe Work Practices. 
RESPONSIBLE CARE
As a member of the American Chemistry Council (ACC), FMC has been an active participant in the Responsible Care
® program since 
its inception. Responsible Care is the chemical industry’s world-class Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security (EHS&S) performance initiative. It helps member companies enhance their EHS&S performance, discover new business opportunities, and build a strong foundation for the ACC’s advocacy on behalf of the industry. 
Reporting Standard
FMC’s EHS Incident Reporting Standard was revised in 2018 to align with the American Chemistry Council’s use of the American Petroleum Institute’s “Process Safety Performance Indicators for the Refining and Petrochemical Industries” standard. New definitions and thresholds were incorporated for each of the FMC Process Safety Incident categories. This change allows FMC to compare process safety performance with other industry members both domestically and globally. All FMC sites will report process safety incidents using the revised standard starting in 2019.
Spotlight on Wyong, Australia:
Through the “Focus 60 Days” campaign, our Wyong site made over 100 observations, of which 55 were reported into the Safety Initiative Management System with appropriate actions and follow-up. Observations ranged from inappropriate storage of kitchen knives to inadequate safety signage. Employees at Wyong found the program to be a novel approach to safety and felt it had a positive impact on their site’s safety culture. 
Tomatoes,  
Solanum lycopersicum18
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTParticipation in Responsible Care is a commitment to:
 ▶Improve Environmental, Health and  
Safety performance. 
 ▶Use resources efficiently.
 ▶Engage with stakeholders.
 ▶Report on progress, openly and transparently.
 ▶Effectively manage chemical products.
As part of FMC’s commitment to the program, we conduct annual internal Responsible Care Management System (RCMS) audits at each of our U.S. locations, which includes our Philadelphia headquarters at FMC Tower, Stine Research Center, and the Middleport, Wyoming, Mobile and Manati manufacturing locations. External certification of our RCMS program is conducted every three years at selected locations.TALENT MANAGEMENT 
Our People: Employees are FMC’s most valuable asset. Ensuring a safe and inclusive work environment where they can bring their whole selves to work is one of the company’s most important priorities. We help and empower our employees to develop their skills in alignment with their career aspirations.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
FMC is committed to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse and talented workforce. In 2018, we designed and developed a three-tier leadership development program which is being rolled out globally.
 ▶The Science of Leadership |  Designed for individual 
contributors or future/new people managers. 
 ▶The Art of Leadership | Designed for experienced people managers seeking to enhance their leadership acumen.
 ▶The Keys to Leadership | Designed to develop highly effective leaders in the organization.ENGINEERING 
DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM
FMC’s Technical 
Engineering Development Program (EDP) is designed to develop the next generation of engineering and operations professionals in our organization. In 2018, we expanded the focus of the program by leveraging EDP support across 
multiple areas within operations including active ingredients, formulations and packaging, and process safety management. 
PICTURED ABOVE (FROM LEFT 
TO RIGHT): Kate McIntyre, Gregory 
VanOmmeren, Marianna Tymocz and Roisin Breen
Females Males
FMC supports a global and diverse workforce. Our total workforce includes 6,283 full-time regular employees globally as of December 31, 2018.North
America
1,535 employeesLatin
America
834 employeesEMEA
1,488 employeesAsia  
Pacific
2,426 employees34% 32% 24% 25%
66% 68% 76% 75%2018 FMC Total Workforce
BY REGION + GENDER
Sugar beets,  
Beta vulgaris19DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Ambition Statement: 
See yourself in FMC, Be yourself in FMCAt FMC, we strive to be an inclusive workplace where 
our employees reflect the community, are valued, find purpose in their work, and grow and contribute to their fullest potential.
OUR STRATEGY
Before 2014, FMC’s Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) efforts were primarily focused on compliance within the U.S. In 2014, employee affinity groups began to evolve with the launch of the Women’s Initiative Network. Since then, affinity groups have been rebranded as Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) and have continued to grow and thrive within the organization globally. Benefits continue to broaden and in 2016 we introduced D&I awards. In support of our Ambition Statement, we have developed a comprehensive D&I strategy. Our strategy has four key focus areas:
 ▶Inclusive Workplace | Create a workplace where everyone is valued and has an opportunity to reach their full potential.
 ▶Workforce Diversity | Establish programs and processes that systematically attract, develop and retain diverse talent.
 ▶Inclusive Leadership | Build the competency of our leaders, managers and employees to advocate inclusive behaviors.
 ▶Business Impact | Position FMC as a great company 
for diverse, top talent and share best practices internally and externally.Our 2019 D&I Action Plan:
• Diverse Slate 
of Candidates
• Diverse Interview Panel• Baseline Data
• Diversity Dashboard
• International Women’s Day
• Inclusion Week
• Executive Sponsorship 
• Expand Globally • Target People Managers
• Deploy in All RegionsENHANCE DIVERSE 
CANDIDATE POOLSVALIDATE METRICS + 
MEASUREMENTS 
INCREASE  
AWARENESS THROUGH 
EDUCATION CAMPAIGNS 
EVOLVE EMPLOYEE 
RESOURCES GROUPS CONDUCT INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP TRAINING 
New Global Director of 
Diversity and Inclusion
In September 2018, Subarna Malakar joined FMC 
as the Director of Diversity & Inclusion. Subarna is responsible for developing the D&I roadmap. As part of his role, Subarna will be:
• Aligning D&I priorities with executive leaders
• Implementing new practices and programs that accelerate inclusiveness
• Engaging global stakeholders and driving accountability across the organization• Incorporating D&I elements in learning programs and talent acquisition strategies
• Defining metrics to measure the impact of  our D&I strategy
Subarna Malakar,  
Director, Diversity & Inclusion
CULTIVATING TOMORROW20
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
WOMEN’S INITIATIVE NETWORK
Mission: To raise the 
profile of women at FMC encouraging wellbeing, education, development and networking in the workplace.
2018 Highlights:
 ▶Hosted a half-day Clifton Strengths Workshop 
for women in Philadelphia, Stine and Ewing sites to learn about developing their own unique strengths. 
 ▶Hosted a Women In Leadership Panel Discussion: The event featured a keynote address from Bethwyn Todd, Vice President  
and FMC Asia President, and a panel  
discussion moderated by Amy O’Shea, Vice President and Business Director, North  
America. Panelists were Kathy Shelton, Vice President and Chief Technology Officer; Diane Allemang, Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer; and Susanne Lingard, Vice President Regulatory Affairs.WOMEN IN ENGINEERING
Mission: To engage and enable women to reach their fullest potential as engineers and leaders. To expand the image of the engineering profession and demonstrate the value of diversity.
2018 Highlights:
 ▶Participated in Affinity Day Celebrations.
 ▶Hosted “Chalk it up to Science” session for Take 
Your Kids to Work Day.
 ▶Hosted a Women in Engineering Panel. 
 ▶Joined the Society of Women Engineers.
 ▶Attended the joint Association of Latino Professionals for America and National Association of Asian American Professionals 2018 ERG Summit.NEW GENERATION
Mission: To create a D&I culture within Cork Shared Services. Centered on core values and committed to inclusion and excellence.
2018 Highlights:
 ▶Celebrated International Women’s Day.
 ▶Organized Women’s Day Event at offsite 
location with guest speakers and a video produced by FMC Cork, Ireland site  
highlighting the inspirational women in  
the lives of FMC employees.
 ▶Held annual charity event co-organized with Cope Foundation (an organization that enhances and supports the lives of people with an intellectual disability and/or autism). Employees spent time painting, cleaning and gardening with Cope members.
EVOLUTION OF OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
In 2018, we evolved our affinity groups to Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to better align the ERG business plans and initiatives to our global D&I strategy. We also created a comprehensive ERG guideline with clear budgets, communications and activities. Additionally, we included the roles and responsibilities of the Executive Sponsors, Chairs and Workstream Leaders to support the missions of the ERGs. Below is information about our ERGs. 
WOMEN IN ENGINEERING EVENT IN LATIN AMERICA21
CULTIVATING TOMORROWTHE BRIDGE
Mission: To showcase and 
provide a community for 
the various ethnic cultures across FMC, which in turn helps recruit and retain talent. To bring awareness to the FMC workforce on the business cultures in regions where we operate and provide insight into best practices when working with various cultures.
2018 Highlights:
 ▶Hosted quarterly “Taste of FMC” culinary  
events to celebrate and acknowledge diverse 
food culture.
 ▶Organized a Fireside Chat during Black History Month to discuss topics on the background, work behavior dynamics, challenges and solutions to overcome stereotypes and biases often faced by people of color. 
 ▶Hosted a presentation about Dr. Erin Myers’ book, “The Culture Map: Navigating Cultural Differences in Business”, that helped FMC employees learn ways to navigate through the different cultural realities of how people think and get things done in global business. 
 ▶Established partnerships with the Association of Latin Professionals For America (Philadelphia Chapter) and National Association of Asian American Professionals (Philadelphia Chapter).SPECTRUM
Mission: To increase the visibility of LGBTQ+ issues within FMC through education and awareness initiatives. Encourage fellowship through dialogue and an inclusive understanding of LGBTQ+ identity by formal and informal interactions and engagement with the FMC community at large.
2018 Highlights:
 ▶Organized movie screenings for employees of 
Kinky Boots and Love, Simon in Philadelphia. 
 ▶Celebrated Pride Month in Philadelphia and the Stine and Ewing Research Centers.
 ▶Hosted Parents and Friends of LGBTQ+ and Spectrum Core Team meet and greet sessions  
in Philadelphia and Stine Research Center.I-GEN
Mission: To leverage multi-generational differences and commonalities for personal and professional growth to attract and retain talent that enhances FMC’s strength in diversity and inclusion in the marketplace. Thereby, the i-Gen Network will serve to develop, connect and empower employees from all generations to have a voice and cultivate leadership within FMC.
Highlights:
(Launched in early 2019)
 ▶Organized i-Gen launch party that included a talk about different generations in the workplace from Subarna Malakar (Director, Diversity and Inclusion), and activities/skits that celebrated cross generational collaboration and differences. 
PICTURED FROM LEFT TO RIGHT AT THE I-GEN LAUNCH: 
Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director; Karen Totland, i-Gen Executive Sponsor and VP of Global Procurement, Global Facilities and Sustainability; Julie Boss, i-GEN Co-Chair; Gabriel Olchin, i-GEN Co-Chair; 
Pierre Brondeau, Chief Executive Officer; Margarita Giavis, i-GEN Treasurer; 
Ragine Williams, D&I Intern; and Mark Douglas, Chief Operating Officer.
Pride Month Celebration
To raise awareness and celebrate PRIDE 
month, Spectrum hosted keynote speaker Kenji Yoshino who spoke about the issue of “Covering in the Workplace”. Kenji is the Chief Justice Earl Warren Professor of Constitutional Law at NYU School of Law. In his remarks, Kenji shared that “To cover is to downplay a disfavored trait to blend into the mainstream. Because all of us possess stigmatized attributes, we all encounter pressure to cover in our daily lives”. He provided employees with valuable insights and tools to recognize and overcome covering.22
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION HIGHLIGHTS:
Domestic Partner Benefits
Effective January 2019, FMC offers domestic partner 
healthcare coverage to U.S. same-sex and opposite-sex partners and their dependents. While FMC has offered domestic partner healthcare coverage in the past, this coverage was thought to be unnecessary when the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in 2015. However, many state jurisdictions continue to lack clear, fully-inclusive protections for domestic partners, and we have since determined that there are some states today where it can be difficult or burdensome for same-sex partners to marry. Transgender Inclusion Benefits
Effective January 2019, FMC offers transgender-inclusive 
healthcare coverage as part of our U.S. benefit plan. These benefits include support for mental health and hormonal therapies, as well as surgical procedures. 
Disabilities Awareness Month
As part of our Disability Awareness month activities 
in October 2018, we hosted a luncheon with keynote speaker David Harrell. David is an international award-winning actor, speaker and disability advocate. 
He talked to employees about how to 
understand the challenges someone with 
a disability may face and ideas to promote 
a disabled-friendly workplace.WOMEN LEADING THE WAY 
CropLife Asia, the regional voice of the plant science industry, elected Bethwyn Todd, Vice President and FMC Asia President, as CropLife Asia President. In addition, The Australia China Alumni Association recognized Bethwyn with the Australian Ambassador’s Award for Women in Leadership which celebrates achievements of leading female graduates of Australian universities who inspire other women through their dedication, accomplishments and commitment to the Australia-China relationship. 
Lisa Hoffman, Technical Manager, Discovery Biology at FMC Stine Research Center, has been nominated to the 2019 STEP Ahead Awards by the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, DC. The STEP Ahead Awards celebrate women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Production careers who have made outstanding achievements in their companies and communities. The STEP Ahead Awards recognizes women at all levels of a manufacturing organization, from the factory floor to the C-suite. Lisa is one of 130 nominees from 101 companies.
Soybeans,  
Glycine max
FMC Denmark Wins 
Engagement with People 
with Disabilities Award
FMC’s manufacturing site in Rønland, 
Denmark, received the Disability Award of the Year from the local municipality. This award recognizes an association, private person or company that has made a special effort to enable citizens with disabilities to participate in community life on equal terms. FMC received the award for its training of local residents with disabilities who are struggling to gain a foothold in the labor market and may not be prepared for higher education. Since its launch in 2014, 118 local residents have participated in the program. Many of them are currently employed while others are pursuing further education.23
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION  
LEADERSHIP AWARDS
In 2018, we continued our D&I Leadership Award Program 
to recognize employees who are champions of D&I. This year, we had a total of nine award winners, spread across three different categories: Emerging Leaders in STEM, Women in STEM and Change Leader.
Emerging Leaders in STEM Award 
Recognizes employees who have made significant 
contributions in STEM and excelled early in their career. Award winners were:
Lauren Markell – North America
Maureen Anyanwu – North AmericaYang Yuan – North AmericaWomen in STEM Award 
Recognizes talent at any level, from manufacturing to 
executives, who have made contributions in STEM.  Award winners were:
Lisa Hoffman – North America
Poonam Nangalia – North America
Change Leader Award
Recognizes employees, who through their actions, 
perseverance and engagement, made the workplace more welcoming and inclusive. Award winners were:
Joshua Hoff – North America
Karina Daugaard – EMEANaresh Bolla – Asia PacificRoxanne Gutschenritter – North America
AWARD WINNERS PICTURED ABOVE FROM LEFT TO RIGHT:  
Naresh Bolla, Karina Daugaard, Yang Yuan, Roxanne Gutschenritter,  
Lauren Markell, Lisa Hoffman and Poonam Nangalia.Women in Senior Management
2018 Results: While we have increased the percentage 
of women in senior management year-over-year since 2016, we have more work to do. With our D&I strategy, commitment from our leaders, and critical actions plans, we will be able to increase the number of women in management at FMC.
26.1
2016
26.7
2017
 201828.0% OF  
WOMEN
FMC China Certified  
Top Employer 2019 
FMC was certified in 2019 as a Top Employer in China by the Top Employers Institute, a certification program that recognizes leading employers in more than 115 countries around the world that provide exceptional working environments.
our 
PRODUCTSFarmers around the world face major productivity challenges. Demand for food is sharply 
increasing due to a rising population and growing middle class. This, along with climate pressures, results in fewer acres of arable land per capita. To meet the nutritional needs of our growing global population, it is essential that we continually improve crop yields on a relatively stable environmental footprint. FMC is committed to addressing these challenges within our current portfolio and in our R&D pipeline.
To raise new questions, new possibilities, to regard 
old problems from a new angle, requires creative 
imagination and marks real advance in science.”“–Albert Einstein  
 | Theoretical Physicist and Recipient of the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics 25
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
The need for the introduction, adaptation and 
implementation of good farming practices has never 
been more urgent to maintain local and international food security and livelihoods in sustainable ways. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, there has been a rise in hunger for the third year in a row. The population of undernourished people increased to nearly 821 million in 2017 from 784 million in 2014.
Without crop protection products there would be 
epidemics of destructive insects, weeds and diseases that could cause major crop failures. Farmers have been able to sustainably grow more crops on less land using crop protection products, thus significantly increasing crop yields. Additional benefits of using crop protection products include:
 ▶Lower cost of food.
 ▶Quality food supply.
 ▶Consistent food supply. 
 ▶Land conservation.
 ▶More widely available grains, milk and proteins necessary for childhood development.
 ▶More abundant fruits and vegetables which provide essential nutrients for human health.
 ▶Increased profits for farmers by maximizing valuable agricultural inputs such as fertilizers,  water resources and high-quality seeds.
Pesticides also help protect consumers and their property from a wide variety of problems. They help keep homes free of termites, disease-carrying insects and other unsanitary pests such as bed bugs and cockroaches. Insecticides help keep people safe from insect bites that may carry diseases like the West Nile virus, Lyme disease, Zika virus and malaria, which are significant public health concerns. Hunger Statistics:
• Approximately 1 billion people worldwide go to 
bed hungry each night. 
• Small farmers, herders, and fishermen produce about 70 percent of the global food supply, yet they are especially vulnerable to food insecurity – poverty and hunger are most acute among 
rural populations. 
• Approximately 9 million people die of hunger 
each year according to world hunger statistics; more than the death toll for malaria, AIDS and tuberculosis combined.
• Over 60 percent of the world’s hungry are women, who have limited access to resources because of the patriarchal societies in which they live.
• Because of the prevalence of hunger in women in developing countries, malnutrition is a leading cause of death for children. Over 3 million children die of hunger each year.
In 2018, we dedicated 87 percent of our R&D 
budget to develop sustainably advantaged 
products, surpassing our 2020 goal of 80 percent. A sustainably advantaged product is one that positively impacts at least one of the six major Global Challenges: Food Expectations, Health and Safety Expectations, Environmental Consciousness, Climate Change, Scarce Resources and Land Competition, but does not retreat in any of the five other areas.
FMC R&D Spend on  
Sustainably Advantaged Products
BY YEAR
2020 GOAL (80%)
67%
2015
76%
2016
82%
2017
87%
2018PERCENT  
R&D SPENDINNOVATION GOALS26
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFROM R&D TO THE GROWER
FMC R&D is fully integrated today with complementary 
organizations combining the legacy DuPont Discovery organization and the FMC Development organization. Together, we are stronger. 
FMC has 22 field stations, allowing us to test new 
products and formulations around the world. Through this expanded presence, our regional R&D teams transmit what is going on in local markets back to our global Discovery and Development teams. This broadens our reach, helping us to better understand unique local needs and opportunities. It is this kind of deep knowledge that leads to the solutions that make  
a difference for growers.
STAGE GATE PROCESS
The process of creating new crop protection products  
is divided into two activities: Discovery and Development. Work in Discovery and Development is very different, but they both follow a rigorous stage gate process to ensure we advance the best and most sustainable molecules to commercialization.
The work of Discovery is to imagine and create brand 
new molecules that the world has never seen. This stage typically lasts two to three years. We screen more than 60,000 compounds annually, and we make and test thousands of molecules in Discovery each year. Our goal is to move one compound from the Discovery Pipeline to the Development Pipeline each year.
When a molecule is in the Development Pipeline, we 
test and develop all the components needed for a commercial molecule. This includes:  
YEAR 1
 Chemistry Research   
& Development   
Planning Stage ▶Testing for requirements to support registrations to sell the molecule
 ▶Testing the molecule in the field to develop  
a label for the use of the product
 ▶Developing formulations for specific crops  
and regions
 ▶Developing a manufacturing process
The Development stage can take seven to 10 years to progress through definition, validation, development, and finally the launch of the new product. 
DISCOVERY PIPELINE
We currently have 15 innovative chemistry areas in our Discovery Pipeline which we will continue to test. Due to stringent testing requirements, only a few molecules will advance to the next stage. Some of these feature new modes of action, which are very important for successful molecules.
Why Are New Modes of  
Action Important?
New mode of action pesticides control pests 
that are resistant to products on the market today. They also maintain product efficacy longer because growers have a new tool that allows them to rotate different modes of action during a season. This rotation, part of Integrated Pest Management, limits resistance from occurring for as long as possible and is integral to sustainable agricultural practices.
Sugarcane,  
Saccharum officinarum27
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
New Discoveries
Our late-stage Discovery Pipeline includes a broad-
spectrum herbicide molecule that can control glyphosate-resistant weeds, a growing challenge for farmers. It controls both grass and broadleaf weeds, and is safe to use on corn, soybean and cereals, as well as other key crops. It is effective either as a pre-emergent or post-emergent application, giving the grower flexibility in both timing as well as mixture partners. 
A novel insecticide that has demonstrated outstanding 
control of key aphids has recently moved from late stage discovery into our development pipleline. This insecticide is systemic so when it is applied either through sprays on the leaves or with irrigation, it is taken up in the plant, providing protection to the entire plant. This insecticide 
will have the potential to meet 
the market need in vegetables as 
well as corn, cotton and potato 
crops worldwide. Bixafen Fungicide
Bixafen has completed the stage gate process in the U.S. 
and has recently launched. The lead product is Lucento™ fungicide which contains a mixture of bixafen plus FMC’s proprietary fungicide flutriafol. Lucento™ fungicide is an important part of FMC’s U.S. fungicide portfolio and provides a differentiated solution to a wide range of diseases on corn, soybeans and peanuts. Like flutriafol, it is absorbed into leaf and stem tissues, and has both translaminar and systemic activity. Since both fungicides in this product are taken up in the plant, and do not just coat the leaf surface, the whole plant is protected from diseases.
YEARS 2 - 5
Lab & Greenhouse 
 Screening & Field Trials–  
Proof of Concept Stage
YEARS 6 - 8
Additional  
Field Trials & Product 
 Definition Stage
YEARS 9 - 11
 Product Development,  
Product Introduction & 
 Commercialization Stage
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
We have several active ingredients in our development pipleline. Some examples of them are outlined below. 
Fluindapyr Fungicide
Fluindapyr controls a variety of key diseases in row and 
specialty crops around the world including rusts, leaf spots, powdery mildews, scab and anthracnose. We anticipate launch in the U.S. in 2021, China in 2022, the EU and Argentina in 2023, and Brazil in 2024. Key crops include soybeans, corn, 
cotton, cereals, oilseed rape, fruits and vegetables, tree nuts 
and peanuts, as well as turf and ornamentals. 
Bixlozone Herbicide
Bixlozone is an herbicide with a new mode of action 
against grass weeds in cereals. It will also be used in oilseed rape, sugarcane, rice and corn. Bixlozone  provides growers a new rotational product for  resistance management across a wide range of  
agronomic practices. In addition to controlling  resistant weeds, bixlozone demonstrates  
long duration control of key grass weeds,  
including crabgrass, goose grass, and ryegrass.Rotational Products
Rotational products are beneficial to both 
farmers and the environment. If one product is 
used season after season, there is an increased 
likelihood that the product is no longer effective against the pest. Integrating a smart 
rotational cycle with a variety of products 
decreases the likelihood of resistance. 
Cabbage,  
Brassica oleracea
Potatoes,  
Solanum tuberosum28
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CORAGEN® INSECTICIDE IN RICE (CHINA)
Coragen® Insecticide Grower Standard
 ALTACOR® INSECTICIDE IN SUGARCANE (BRAZIL)
Altacor® Insecticide Grower Standard
 ▶Growers in Brazil can see a 15 to 25 percent yield 
improvement for sugarcane versus current products on the market. The positive impact from this improvement can be an increase of $3,500 to $8,000 of revenue per acre.
 ▶In India, these products have had a significant impact on the lives of small-scale farmers in protecting their crops and thus, their livelihoods.
PICTURED ABOVE: A letter received from a farmer describing how our 
Rynaxypyr® active ingredient product (Coragen® insecticide) significantly 
increased his sugarcane crop yield and improved his family’s quality of life.EXAMPLES OF TECHNOLOGIES IN  
OUR SUSTAINABLE PORTFOLIO
PLANT HEALTH
Biological offerings in our Plant Health platform complement 
synthetic molecules. We continue to invest in the discovery and development of bio-stimulants, bio-fungicides, bio-insecticides, and bio-nematicides, which are unique technologies that protect plants and their root systems against pests and disease, leading to improved crop yields. 
One biological product in our Plant Health development 
pipeline can be applied as a seed treatment for soil diseases, as well as protection against nematodes. Both soil fungi and nematodes attack the roots of plants, leading to poor growth and yield. Nematodes are parasitic microscopic creatures that damage roots of many types of vegetable and legume plants, grains and grasses and the stems and leaves of some flowering plants. In the U.S. alone, crop losses due to nematodes are in the billions (US$). Our product has demonstrated nematode protection in Brazil, North America and Europe. In addition, it controls diseases such as Rhizoctonia sp. and Fusarium sp. and has indications that it outperforms current bio-fungicide seed treatment standards when added to a chemical-based seed treatment.RYNAXYPYR® AND CYAZYPYR®  
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
These sustainable active ingredients belong to the diamide class of insect control products, and are highly selective chemistries that only target certain classes of pests. This was a new mode of action for insect control when the Rynaxypyr
® active ingredient brand was first 
introduced in 2008. Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active 
ingredients are not the only diamides on the market, but they have proven to be superior to the others and to all other competing classes of chemistry. There are many features about their performance and characteristics that led to their rapid adoption by farmers around the world.
 ▶Both active ingredients are unique in their combination of fast action, low dose rate and residual control. This combination results in almost immediate and continued prevention of direct and indirect pest damage. There are extensive data showing that this superior and prolonged insect control directly leads to vigorous growth, improved yield and higher quality crops.
 ▶In China, growers can see a yield increase of 10 to 15 percent for rice versus competitive products. For a rice farmer, this translates to an increase of $1,500 to $4,000 per acre, which is a life-changing increase for many Asian farmers. 
In June 2018, we extended our collaboration with  
Chr. Hansen for an additional five years to develop and 
commercialize natural solutions for the agricultural industry.
The collaboration, which has resulted in the launch of several 
natural products over the last five years such as Quartzo® 
nematicide and Presence® nematicide in Brazil, has enabled 
both Chr. Hansen and FMC to join resources and expertise to accelerate entry into the rapidly growing biological crop protection market. The newly extended agreement continues to leverage the resources and expertise of both companies. 29
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
CULTIVATING TOMORROWPRECISION AGRICULTURE
Agriculture is transforming at a rapid pace 
through new technologies that allow growers to make site-specific decisions based on highly detailed data. FMC cares about the downstream environmental impact of our products and strives to create innovative solutions that use fewer resources and are safer for growers and applicators. 3RIVE 3D
® and PrecisionPac® 
application technologies are two examples within FMC’s portfolio that advance precision agriculture. In the future, we anticipate integrating data streams to add greater precision to the capabilities of these technologies.PrecisionPac
® Technology
FMC’s PrecisionPac® application 
technology is a revolutionary herbicide dispensing system that matches the right amount and blend of products (from 12 different herbicide blends) to agronomic needs. This technology allows farmers in North America the flexibility of purchasing the exact amount they need.The benefits of this technology include:
 ▶Saved costs – from being able to purchase the exact amount needed for their acreage. 
 ▶Reduced waste – the product is delivered into custom pouches, reducing packaging materials.
 ▶Reduced applicator exposure – eliminates growers having to measure herbicides in the field. The product is in a sealed pouch that can be directly added to sprayers. 
 ▶Reduced environmental impact – purchasing  
the right amount prevents the over application  
of products.
Harvesting cotton3RIVE 3D® Technology
3RIVE 3D® application technology is a revolutionary 
at-plant crop protection delivery platform. This technology ensures the product is evenly distributed throughout the entire solution with the introduction of air in the application system. Therefore, when the product is applied to the soil furrow, seeds are protected from pests regardless of seed placement. While this technology was originally designed with efficiency in mind, the positive environmental impacts of 3RIVE 3D
® 
application technology has made it a mainstay in our portfolio and continues to inspire us to further push the boundaries of its use. The benefits of this technology include:
 ▶Uses 90 to 95 percent less water than traditional liquid systems, which means fewer refills and a reduced risk of runoff; beneficial for areas facing water challenges.
 ▶Carries 50 percent less weight than granular systems, which reduces soil compaction. 
 ▶Reduces potential pollinator impact due to dust-free formulations and immediate soil row cover upon application. ▶Minimizes worker exposure. 
 ▶Increases application efficiency by delivering product directly in-furrow.
30
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
WHAT IS PRODUCT  
STEWARDSHIP?
Stewardship is about the safe and 
responsible use of our products along the product life cycle.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
AT FMC
Stewardship priorities are built into  
the heart of R&D, portfolio and marketing strategies.
STRATEGY
We enhance the sustainability of our business by taking proactive stewardship actions at each stage  of the product life cycle.STRATEGIC PILLARS
Processes Define processes, priorities and opportunities for value  creation to ensure proper governance of our new and  existing products through proactive stewardship. 
Engagement 
Raise the profile of stewardship within the organization.
Define priorities and needs for stewardship training within 
the organization. 
Develop engagement strategies with key external 
stakeholders.
Enhance leadership within CropLife International to 
influence priorities and outcomes.
Measure and Monitor
Develop metrics to monitor implementation and impact 
of stewardship initiatives on the responsible use of our products and commercial strategies. 
At FMC we promote stewardship at each stage of the 
product life cycle, and stewardship priorities are built into the core of R&D, portfolio and marketing strategies for a truly proactive approach. The company is a member of CropLife International’s Product Stewardship Committee to help drive positive progress in agriculture, especially in terms of safe and responsible use of crop protection products. This includes labeling schemes in support of resistance management, guidelines for the adoption of new technologies such as drones, best practices for handling empty containers and availability of personal 
protective equipment in rural areas. FMC strives for an open and transparent communication about the successes and challenges facing product stewardship, as this is a fundamental component in identifying successful solutions. An example of the leadership commitment to stewardship at FMC is the Stewardship Advisory Council, an internal forum composed of key leaders who provide guidance for the development of long-term strategies.
SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT TOOL
FMC developed and utilizes the Sustainability Assessment Tool to determine the sustainability of new active ingredients and formulated products being developed in R&D and to evaluate products currently on the market. This assessment, along with other stewardship processes and tools, ensures the introduction and continued use of environmentally sustainable agricultural solutions. 
Assessment questions are answered in comparison to 
a benchmark product and the results are indicated in a Sustainability Matrix diagram (see facing page for example). A product is considered sustainable if it is better than the benchmark in at least one area, but it cannot retreat in any of the five other areas. If a product is not considered sustainable because its attributes are not as good as the benchmark, then FMC works to mitigate the area of concern.
MARCELLO GIANNUZZI
Product Stewardship DirectorPRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Sorghum seeds,  
Sorghum bicolor31
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
FMC Sustainability Matrix Example
Benchmark
Active ingredient 
or productCLIMATE CHANGESCARCE 
RESOURCESHEALTH & SAFETY 
EXPECTATIONSENVIRONMENTAL  
CONSCIOUSNESS
LAND 
COMPETITIONFOOD EXPECTATIONSConservation at Stine Research Center 
In 1995, Stine Research Center in Delaware received its 
first recognition as a certified Wildlife Habitat Site. The site consists of approximately 500 acres of woodland, farmland and grassland habitats. 
The Wildlife Improvement of Stine Habitat (WISH) team 
currently manages many habitat enhancement programs. These include the monitoring of 45 nest boxes for bluebirds, wood ducks and a variety of other native birds, maintaining butterfly and hummingbird gardens, supporting a program for Eastern Painted Turtles and a reforestation project. In 2017, Stine Research Center achieved Gold Conservation Certification status from the Wildlife Habitat Council.
PICTURED ABOVE: Wildlife sightings at Stine Research Center and the WISH team’s 
on-site reforestation efforts 
HIGHLY HAZARDOUS PESTICIDES
FMC is committed to introducing products that control 
only target pests and promote human and ecosystem health. We continue to phase out Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs) as classified by the United  
Nations Food and Agriculture Organization from  
our product portfolio. 
To ensure that no inert ingredients classified 
as HHPS are used in new product development, our Formulations team consults a toolbox of recommended additives. In addition, our Regulatory teams double-check the inert  
ingredients in each new product prior to submitting it for registration. 
Strawberries,  
Fragaria × ananassaour 
PROGRESSAt FMC, we understand the impact our manufacturing processes have on the environment and 
the communities that surround them. We are committed to increasing the transparency of our progress towards strengthening relationships with our communities and reducing our environmental impact. 
Climate change is destroying our path to sustainability. Ours is a world 
of looming challenges and increasingly limited resources. Sustainable 
development offers the best chance to adjust our course.”“–Ban Ki-moon | Former United Nations Secretary-General34
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEUROPE
STORIE DI ALTERNANZA – SAN COLOMBANO, ITALY
The “Storie di 
Alternanza” Award is an initiative promoted by the Italian Chambers of Commerce to increase collaboration between schools and corporations. 
Students who participated in internships with businesses were encouraged to share learnings with the wider community through video essays. FMC collaborated with students from the A. Cesaris School, who won the first prize for their winning video about how FMC’s strong safety culture helped change people’s behavior. 
NORTH AMERICA
FEED THE GULF COAST – MOBILE, ALABAMA
Our Mobile site’s Feed the Gulf Coast backpack program helped meet the needs of chronically hungry children by providing them with nutritious and easy-to prepare food to take home on weekends and during school vacations when other resources were not available. 
“ADOPT A FAMILY” PROGRAM – STINE RESEARCH CENTER, NEWARK, DELAWARE
FMC Stine employees have participated in an annual Adopt A Family Program sponsored by Children & Families First in Wilmington, Delaware, for over 15 years. This program ensures that each “adopted” child receives a winter coat, hat and gloves along with other requested clothing and toys. Other essential items are given to the children’s mother to help support the family.THE GIVING SPIRIT THRIVES –  MIDDLEPORT, NEW YORK
FMC Middleport employees donated more than 600 pounds of food to the Middleport Area Community  Food Pantry. “Throughout the year and especially during the holiday season, it is important to help those in our community who are in need,” said Roberta Kloda,  plant manager. 
THE LEUKEMIA & LYMPHOMA SOCIETY – PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
As part of our longstanding partnership with the Eastern Pennsylvania Chapter of The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
®, FMC became the Safety Spotlight Sponsor for 
Light the Night fundraising walk. We were also a premier sponsor for “Big Climb”, a stair climb fitness event that was held at FMC Tower.
LATIN AMERICA
HOSPITAL VOLUNTEERING – UBERABA, BRAZIL
In April, our Uberaba site employees visited the Hospital de Clínicas da Universidade Federal do Triângulo Mineiro and organized fun interactive activities such dancing, balloon sculpturing and magic shows to lift the spirits of patients of all ages and their families.
A Snapshot of FMC’s  
Community Activities
ASIA
TRESNA WERDHA NURSING HOME –  
PASURUAN, INDONESIA 
FMC employees at 
our Pasuruan Plant donated food, clothes, diapers and cleaning materials to the Tresna Werdha Nursing Home, located approximately 20 km from the plant. The facility is home 
to over 100 elderly residents who do not have a family support system to take care of their personal and medical needs. During FMC’s visit to the nursing home in May 2018, employees were also able to spend time connecting with the residents.
DONATION OF WATER COOLERS – SAVLI, INDIA
Employees at our Savli Plant donated water coolers to four schools in their community. Water coolers are essential to give children access to clean, cold water to cool off on a hot day. The program benefited over 870 students. 
Given our large number of suppliers, we have partnered 
with Sedex, a not-for-profit risk management 
membership organization, to assist in assessing and auditing our current raw material suppliers. We have a similar partnership program with Avetta for significant contractors in North America. This program was expanded in 2018 to include the newly acquired sites from DuPont.
EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY  
ADVISORY COUNCIL
FMC’s External Sustainability Advisory Council, established in late 2017, is continuing to help us drive progress on our sustainability journey. In-person meetings are held twice a year and have focused on key areas such as innovation, sustainable agriculture, stakeholder engagement, materiality, diversity and inclusion, issues management strategy, ethics/compliance, safety and product stewardship. Members of  the council represent academia, think tanks, industry and investors.
 35
CULTIVATING TOMORROWREDEVELOPMENT OF ONE OF  
OUR REMEDIATION SITES 
The conceptual design (above) represents the planned residential redevelopment on a portion of a former FMC property in Alameda County, California. Redevelopment of the entire FMC property into a mixed-use area, including residential buildings, retail space, a neighborhood park and a transportation hub is part of a broader development plan established by the city. FMC is performing the remediation of the property in phases to expedite redevelopment and support the city’s plan. We completed soil remediation to meet residential use standards in late 2017 on a portion of the property and received approval of the remediation from the local environmental regulatory agency in 2018, thus paving the way for the first phase of future redevelopment. Investing in remediation to residential use standards, which are typically more stringent than those for industrial or commercial use, will allow for beneficial reuse of this brownfield site to help meet the growing demand for housing in the San Francisco Bay Area.REDUCING TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS
FMC is committed to increasing transparency of our global logistics impact. In 2018, we established a partnership with BDP international, Inc. and the Smart Freight Centre to pilot a Logistics Emissions Accounting and Reduction Network (LEARN) project. The pilot calculated carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions for select routes within our supply chain. From there, alternative routes were identified, CO2e emissions measured and compared to existing routes to assess the potential for reduced transportation emissions. We determined that if the alternative routes with the lowest CO2e emissions were chosen, we could realize emission reduction by up to 38 percent. Moving forward we plan to expand this pilot study to additional routes within our supply chain and apply these findings to our broader GHG emissions reduction strategy.
A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
Suppliers are vital to ensuring a responsible supply chain. Several years ago, we launched a formal Supplier Selection and Approval Process that screens all new significant contractors and raw material suppliers for their adherence to quality, safety, human rights standards and sustainability. In 2018, we expanded our process to support the additional screening of new vendors for sanctions and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance. This program is vital to managing and mitigating supplier risk. The Supplier Selection and Approval process training is incorporated into our new employee onboarding program in Procurement.
Rice,  
Oryza sativa36
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2018 | Environmental Results
Notes about Environmental Data:
1.   In 2018, energy, GHG emissions and water data for legacy FMC and legacy DuPont were externally assured.
2.  Throughout 2018, Livent Corporation reported its data along with FMC’s Agricultural business. Livent’s energy, GHG emissions and  
     water data was externally assured along with that of FMC’s Agricultural Solutions business.3.  In 2018, the external assurance did not include the active ingredient contract manufacturing sites.
4. In 2018, we revised our accounting practice for reporting Lithium production that resulted in changes to Lithium intensities    
    ranging from 1-6 percent.
Legacy FMC Legacy DuPont Legacy FMC 
Intensity
Lithium  
IntensityActive Ingredient 
Contract ManufacturingLithiumTOTAL ENERGY USE, TJ
ENERGY INTENSITY, GJ/MTGlobal Energy Use
7 80
6
12345
1070
605040
30
20
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20180Global GHG Emissions
600 3.5
500GHG, K-TONNES CO2E
GHG INTENSITY, TONNES CO2E/MT
2003004003.0
1000.51.01.52.02.5
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20180Global Waste Disposed
400TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED, K-TONNES
WASTE DISPOSED INTENSITY, KG/MT
50100150200250300350
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018080
10203040506070
HIGH RISK WATER USE INTENSITY, CUBIC METER/MTGlobal High Risk Water Use
35004000 180HIGH RISK WATER USE, MILLION CUBIC METERS  
10001500200025003000
50020406080100120140160
2014 2013 2015 2016 2017 201802025 Goal 
(vs. 2013 
Baseline)Legacy  
FMCLithium FMC Corporation 
Metric
Energy intensity -15% -18% -21%
GHG emissions 
intensity-15% -12% -27%
Waste disposed 
intensity-15% -29% -20%
Water use intensity 
at high risk locations-20% -25% -21%FMC measures and reports our environmental footprint 
on an intensity basis – i.e., energy (gigajoule), GHG 
emissions (tonne CO2 equivalent), waste disposed (tonne), and water use at high risk locations (cubic meter) per tonne of product. The table to the left shows progress towards our environmental reduction targets for both legacy FMC and for Livent at the end of 2018. Significant reductions were achieved for both companies versus the 2013 baseline year, already exceeding the 2025 targets in most areas. This was primarily due to efficiency improvements in our processes and changes to cleaner burning fuels. Note: The data in this table does not include the newly acquired assets from DuPont from November 2017. Livent expects to separately report on its goals and targets starting in 2019.
The charts below include environmental metrics for 
legacy FMC owned sites, active ingredient contract manufacturing sites, all newly acquired sites from DuPont as well as Livent. 
For further details on our environmental progress,  
please visit ww.FMCsustainability.com37
CULTIVATING TOMORROWFMC
FMC’s manufacturing sites synthesize active ingredients 
(AIs) and perform the final steps of product formulation, mixing and packaging. Additionally, we obtain AIs through contract manufacturers. The synthesis of these complex chemicals has a material environmental footprint; therefore, we work with both FMC-owned sites and contract manufacturers to monitor and reduce these impacts. As growers’ needs change and pest pressures increase, we adjust our AI product mix to address these challenges. In some cases, these adjustments result in producing AIs that are more resource intensive. We are committed to minimizing our impacts and collaborating with our contract manufacturers to measure and reduce their impacts. 
FMC-OWNED MANUFACTURING SITES
 ▶Energy – We are continuously investing in 
energy efficient equipment and replacing our boilers for efficient use of our energy. We have also undertaken energy audits at select plants that resulted in energy savings. The efforts have resulted in reduced absolute energy use by 31 percent and energy intensity by 18 percent compared to the 2013 baseline. 
 ▶GHG – The energy efficiency projects at our plants have also helped reduce our absolute GHG emissions by 26 percent and GHG intensity by 12 percent versus our 2013 baseline. It is important to note that the continued use of briquettes as an energy source at our Panoli, India, site is a large source of GHG emissions. However, the use of briquettes is tied to the local economy and positively contributes to the socio-economic sustainability of the community. Briquettes are made from an agricultural byproduct (groundnut shells) that would otherwise be combusted by local farmers without heat recovery. If FMC were to replace the briquette use with natural gas, we could reduce our GHG emissions at Panoli by about 34 percent. But on a life cycle basis, total GHG emissions to the environment would not be reduced due to the extra natural gas combustion needed to meet the energy demand of the site.
 ▶Waste – In 2018, FMC reduced absolute waste disposed by 39 percent and waste disposed intensity by 29 percent versus the 2013 baseline. This was accomplished through process efficiencies and phasing out highly waste intensive products. 
 ▶Water – In 2018 we reassessed our sites that fall in the medium- to high-risk locations as defined by the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Tool. WRI uses 12 key water indicators to assess the risk level of a site. Twelve of our manufacturing sites (including newly acquired sites from DuPont) fall within the medium- to high-risk zones based on the key water indicators. Through better process control, and treatment for water reuse we have achieved 40 percent reduction in absolute water use and 25 percent reduction in water intensity at these high-risk sites.
FMC ACTIVE INGREDIENT CONTRACT 
MANUFACTURING SITES
 ▶Energy – Since 2013, the energy intensity at our 
contract manufacturing partners increased by 6 percent due to change in product mix.
 ▶GHG – Due to the change in fuel mix, the GHG intensity decreased 3 percent compared to the  2013 baseline.
 ▶Waste – Waste disposed intensity at our  contract manufacturing sites was reduced by  24 percent compared to the 2013 baseline.LITHIUM (NOW KNOWN AS LIVENT)
The FMC Lithium business, which is now Livent Corporation, 
also achieved significant reductions in intensities compared to the baseline. Since 2013, the business has seen considerable growth in production volume, yet due to increased operational efficiencies, it has reduced the intensities across all its environmental metrics. 
 ▶Ener gy – Even though production increased by 23 
percent in 2018, energy use remained flat due to 
implementation of energy improvement projects. This resulted in a decrease in energy intensity of 21 percent compared to 2013 baseline.
 ▶GHG – Since 2013, due to energy efficiency projects and conversion to natural gas fired boilers, GHG intensity was reduced by 27 percent. 
 ▶Waste – By repurposing several waste streams to valuable by-products, Lithium reduced the waste disposal intensity by 20 percent since 2013.
 ▶Water – Lithium utilizes water as a portion of its extraction process. Through responsible use and recycling of this valuable resource, Lithium reduced water intensity at high risk sites by 21 
percent since 2013.
CONTINUED PROGRESS
Making progress on our goals requires identification and 
implementation of projects to reduce our environmental footprint. In 2019 FMC will reset its environmental goals to reflect our current business, including the legacy DuPont manufacturing sites, using a 2018 baseline.1
1
2
31
2
3
4
23
438
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTINDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO FMC CORPORATION
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) 
to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2018 environmental and safety data in the 
FMC Sustainability Report 2018 (‘the Report’) as set out below.
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Scope of our
assurance
engagementWhether the FMC total and BU level 2018 data for the following environmental (absolute 
and intensity) and safety indicators presented on pages 15 and 36, and on FMC’s sustainability website (fmcsustainability.com/data-gri/) are fairly presented in all material respects, with the reporting criteria:
• Scope 1 GHG Emissions (from direct energy use) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based method) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Total GHG Emissions [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• GHG Intensity [Tonnes CO2e/Tonne of Production]
• Total Energy Use [Terajoules]
• Energy Intensity [GJ/Tonne of Production]
• Total Water Use [Million Cubic Meters]
• Total High Risk Water Use [Million Cubic Meters]
• High Risk Water Intensity [Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production]
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Reporting
criteriaThe WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (excluding 
refrigerants) and FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators.
Assurance
standardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance 
levelLimited assurance.
Respective
responsibilitiesFMC is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to 
third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
OUR CONCLUSIONS
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2018 data for the 
specified indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the 
reporting criteria.
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
Our objective was to assess whether the 2018 data for the specified indicators are reported in 
accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organisation) and 
accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation).We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we 
believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities:
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and 
processes (including systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the data for the specified indicators;
• A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors;
• Visits to three sites (Flintshire, UK; Newark-Stine, DE, USA; Middleport, NY, USA) and two virtual site visits (Tuas South, Singapore; Mobile, AL, USA) to review local reporting processes and consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes;
• A desk-based review of source data for four sites (Manati, Puerto Rico; Ronland, Denmark; Panoli, India; and Salvi, India);
• An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data consolidation;
• Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review procedures and the completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the specified indicators from the site data; and
• A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to 
ensure consistency with our findings.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available 
methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to 
understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers  
Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
21 May 2019
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London | www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY 
RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND 
IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF 
INTEREST. ERM CVS AND THE ERM STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN THIS ENGAGEMENT WORK HAVE PROVIDED NO 
CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC IN ANY RESPECT.
ASSURANCE STATEMENT39
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
Diane Allemang 
Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer
Brian P. Angeli 
Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Treasurer
William F. Chester 
Vice President, Global Tax
Barry J. Crawford 
Vice President, Operations
Kenneth A. Gedaka 
Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs
Marc L. Hullebroeck 
President, FMC EMEA, Vice President and  
Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions, EMEADavid A. Kotch 
Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Susanne M. Lingard 
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
Kyle Matthews 
Vice President, Human Resources and  Chief Human Resources Officer
Amy G. O’Shea 
Vice President and Business Director,  FMC Agricultural Solutions, North America
Ronaldo Pereira 
President, FMC Latin America, Vice President and Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions, Latin AmericaNicholas L. Pfeiffer Vice President, Corporate Controller and  Chief Accounting Officer 
Kathleen A. Shelton, Ph.D. 
Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
Bethwyn Todd 
President, FMC Asia, Vice President and Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia
Karen M. Totland 
Vice President, Global Procurement,  Global Facilities and Corporate Sustainability
Shawn R. Whitman 
Vice President, Government AffairsPierre R. Brondeau Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board,  FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro 
Former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and President, Americas Region, Cabot Corporation
G. Peter D’Aloia 
Former Managing Director and Member of the Board of Directors, Ascend Performance Materials Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer 
Principal, Greer and AssociatesK’Lynne Johnson Former Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Chair, Elevance Renewable Sciences Inc.
Dirk A. Kempthorne 
Retired President and Chief Executive Officer,  American Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris 
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  W. R. Grace & Co.Margareth Øvrum Executive Vice President, Development & Production, Brazil, Equinor ASA
Robert C. Pallash 
Retired President, Global Customer,  Group and Senior Vice President, Visteon Corporation
William H. Powell 
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  National Starch and Chemical Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr.  
Chairman, CEO, President and Principal, LeHavre Athletic Club
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FMC OFFICERSCHAIRMAN’S COMMITTEE
Pierre R. Brondeau 
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
Mark A. Douglas 
President and Chief Operating OfficerAndrew D. Sandifer 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Michael F. Reilly 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel,  
Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer UNITED NATIONS  
GLOBAL COMPACT 
Communication on Progress
TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC’S INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT UNGC PRINCIPLES
Human RightsPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the 
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Human Rights in the Supply  Chain training • Supplier code of conduct 
• Supplier screening process
Principle 2: Make sure that businesses are not 
complicit in human rights abuses.• Human rights policy  • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
LaborPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 
association and the effective recognition of the right 
to collective bargaining.• Human rights policy  • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
• FMC Employee Resource Groups• Revision of FMC policies to be  more inclusive
• Hired new Director of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) • New D&I strategy 
• Domestic partner and transgender benefits (U.S.)
EnvironmentPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
• CDP climate change module submission
• Climate change statement • Risk assessments for  agricultural products • Adherence to stringent  regulatory frameworks
Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
• CDP climate change module submission
• Responsible Care• 2025 environmental goals and progress • Product Stewardship programs
Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Precision agriculture (3RIVE 3D® and 
PrecisionPAC® application technologies)• Evalio® AgroSystems
• Plant health products• Seed treatment products
• Product Stewardship and Sustainability Assessment tool
Anti CorruptionPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Ethics on-line training course
• The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) compliance standard process • Training of FMC organization and FMC’s key third parties • FCPA audits 
• Code of Ethics and Business ConductFMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This is our fourth 
Communication on Progress indicating our activities and management systems in support 
of the UNGC principles.
More information on our initiatives to support the UNGC principles can be found on  
www.FMCsustainability.com
WE SUPPORT
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements made in this report that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning 
specific factors described in FMC Corporation’s 2018 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management’s best judgment as of the date hereof based on information 
currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
40
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT41
CULTIVATING TOMORROW
The greatest threat to our planet is the 
belief that someone else will save it.”“–Robert Swan | Author and Polar Explorer42
FMC 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
COPYRIGHT © 2019, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.FMC Corporation
FMC Tower at Cira Centre South2929 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104USA
FMC.com
Printed on Rolland Enviro Print, 80 lb Text. This paper contains 100% post-consumer 
fiber, is manufactured using renewable energy - Biogas and processed chlorine free. 
It is FSC® certified, Rainforest AllianceTM and Ancient Forest FriendlyTM certified.