2017 Sustainability Report
Growing ResultsPowering ProgressI am proud to share with you our seventh sustainability 
report where you will find information about our 
commitments to environmental sustainability, safety, 
human rights, diversity and inclusion, community 
engagement and product innovation. 
WHAT EXCITING THINGS CAN WE LOOK 
FORWARD TO FROM FMC OVER THE  
NEXT YEAR?   
Since I started at FMC, we had the vision to be 
a leading chemical company, providing innovative 
solutions for the agriculture and lithium industries. This 
vision is coming to fruition through the hard work and 
dedication of all our employees. 
The DuPont transaction elevates FMC to a tier-one 
agricultural chemical company with scale, global reach 
and a broader portfolio of differentiated products. FMC 
Lithium is set to become a publicly traded company 
by the end of 2018. We are continuing to invest in 
expansion projects as the global lithium industry grows 
at an unprecedented rate. 
WHAT CHANGES IN FMC’S SUSTAINABILITY 
PROGRAMS CAN BE EXPECTED AS THE 
COMPANY TRANSFORMS? 
As the company transforms, our commitment 
to sustainability is steadfast. FMC has a 
larger global footprint today with the addition of 14 
manufacturing sites and 15 R&D facilities around 
the world. It is imperative that our core value of 
sustainability is a catalyst for developing innovative 
technologies and engaging with our investors, suppliers, customers and employees to reduce our 
environmental footprint. 
In 2018, we will integrate our new facilities into FMC’s 
reporting structure and reset our sustainability goals. We 
will ensure FMC Lithium has the right tools to continue 
its sustainability journey as a standalone company.  
I know our employees are prepared to successfully 
handle these challenges.
WHAT MAKES FMC’S WORKPLACE CULTURE 
UNIQUE AND DESIRABLE FOR THE NEXT 
GENERATION OF TALENT?  
I’m proud of the increasingly progressive and 
nimble culture that has taken root over the last 
few years at FMC. This culture is grounded in our diverse 
points of view – our ability to think differently, challenge 
assumptions and remain close to our customers. The next 
generation of talent will be supported at FMC through 
an inclusive environment that encourages innovation. It 
is exciting to see the passion for sustainability that new 
employees bring to FMC. This passion combined with 
open collaboration and diversity of thought will ensure 
our continued success and growth of our people. 
HOW DOES FMC ADDRESS THE MAJOR 
GLOBAL CHALLENGES IN ITS STRATEGY  
FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT?
At FMC, we prioritize five major global challenges: 
food + health expectations, environmental 
consciousness, climate change, scarce resources and 
land competition. Each of these challenges shape the 
way FMC does business. We are improving existing 
products and developing new technologies to feed a growing population and move towards a low-carbon, 
climate resilient economy. Now is the time for public 
and private institutions to step up, collaborate and 
partner globally.
I want a bright future for my grandchildren and yours, 
and creating that world requires immediate action and 
collaboration. As the CEO of a global chemical company, 
I take this responsibility very seriously and will ensure 
our goals are connected to the wider context of 
sustainable development. 
Thank you to all FMC employees for your dedication to 
Powering Progress, Growing Results. Q+A | WITH OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Q.
Q.
Q.Q.A.
A.
A.A.
Pierre Brondeau
CEO and Chairman of the Board
About this ReportTable of Contents
For more information about FMC sustainability, please contact Linda Froelich, Corporate Sustainability Director, at  sustainability.info@fmc.com. Welcome Guide and Organizational Profile  ................................................................. 2
Stakeholder Engagement  ............................................................................................................. 3
Materiality Assessment  ................................................................................................................ 4
Major Global Challenges and the United Nations Global Compact  ...........5
Update On Our Formula For Progress  ............................................................................ 6
2017 Progress Report and 2018 Commitments ....................................................... 7Our People  ................................................................................................................................................ 8
Our Products  ....................................................................................................................................... 16
Our Responsibility  ......................................................................................................................... 22
2017 Environmental Results  ................................................................................................. 28
Assurance Statement  ................................................................................................................ 30
Board of Directors and FMC Officers  ........................................................................... 31
OUR 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The report complements more detailed information on the sustainability website at www.FMCsustainability.com , which includes the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index. Together, this report and the web-based content fulfill the requirements to be “In Accordance” 
with the GRI Standards - Core option. 
EXPLORE FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM
We invite you to explore our website for more information and data that highlight how we are built for progress through our commitment to 
sustainability. The Online Data Center allows you to visualize and interact with our data to better understand FMC’s impacts. You may also 
explore our resources to access a wealth of image and video content that will enhance your understanding of our sustainability work. We 
invite you to read our key statements and policies regarding our positions across several topics, including:
• Climate Change Statement
• Human Rights Policy
• Animal Welfare Policy• Conflict Minerals Policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
• Supplier Code of Conduct• Board of Directors Sustainability 
CommitteeDesign Concept
The cover design displays 
the “circuit-tree,” a balance 
of Agricultural Solutions 
and Lithium through the 
iconography on the disks (or 
leaves). The full tree canopy 
speaks to the progress and 
growth of the company and 
its people over the past year. 
The tree’s roots are indicative 
of growth and pathways 
with each leaf representing 
an idea or stop along the 
sustainability journey. $2,531.2  
MILLION
2017 Revenue
88%
FMC TotalInsecticides, herbicides, 
fungicides, biologicals, 
seed treatments, 
micronutrientsFMC 
AGRICULTURAL 
SOLUTIONS
FMC LITHIUM
Lithium hydroxide, 
butyllithium, lithium 
metal, lithium carbonate, 
lithium chloride, 
specialty organolithiums 
& lithium salt
$347.4  
MILLION
2017 Revenue
12%
FMC TotalOrganizational Profile
FMC REPORTING AND CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES
The 2017 data in this report include all sites under 
FMC’s operational control (except where noted).
On November 1, 2017 FMC divested its Health and 
Nutrition business (H&N), which is excluded from the 
figures on the right, and acquired a significant portion 
of DuPont’s Crop Protection business. Revenue from the 
newly acquired assets has been included in the figures 
on the right. In 2015, our sustainability goals were clearly articulated through 
Our Formula for Progress . In 2016, we were Built for Progress  
through our improved systems and structure ensuring success in 
meeting these goals. To continue our journey, the theme for the 
2017 report is Powering Progress, Growing Results.
Our people, our technologies and our commitments are powering 
our progress. FMC is now at a stage to accelerate results for 
our customers, our shareholders, and the communities in which we live and work. The company’s commitment to research and  
development continues to yield innovative product lines that 
enable progress toward feeding a growing population and 
powering sustainable modes of transportation. FMC is Powering 
Progress and Growing Results  through its talented people, novel 
products and responsible stewardship.
Powering Progress, Growing Results  uses the three key pillars:
 Our People : safety, diversity and employee programs 
Our Products : innovation, new product introductions 
and product stewardship 
Our Responsibility : environmental footprint, 
community engagement and  
sustainable supply chain practicesWelcome Guide  | OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION
(IN MILLIONS) = $2,878.6
North America
$708.1Europe, 
Middle East
+ Africa
$583.4
Latin America
$868.6Asia Pacific
$718.520%
25%
30%25%
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 2Stakeholder engagement is essential to 
determine the topics that are most material 
to FMC’s sustainable development, as well 
as helping to identify important initiatives, 
issues and trends. Stakeholder feedback helps 
FMC continue to evolve and grow. Stakeholder 
engagement is a journey and FMC is working to 
embed it in the culture and core functions of the 
organization. The table to the right indicates the 
main stakeholder groups we currently engage, 
how we engage and examples of outcomes from 
this engagement.STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY SUMMARY OF OUTCOMES
EmployeesTown Hall meetings
Email blasts, videos, intranet
Surveys
Training
Sustainability Report
Annual Report
Social mediaQuarterly
Monthly
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Weekly• Increased transparency and trust
• Strengthened appreciation for initiatives ongoing at FMC
• Advanced understanding and alleviating of employees’ concerns
Prospective  
EmployeesSustainability Report
Annual Report
Social mediaAnnually
Annually
Weekly• Learned Sustainability is highly regarded when considering employment at FMC
CustomersMeetings
Innovation collaboration
Industry partnerships
SurveysQuarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Annually• Improved reputation
• Increased market opportunities
SuppliersSupplier audits
Supplier surveys
Code of ConductBiennially
Quarterly
As needed• Improved reputation
• Strengthened two-way communication
InvestorsRatings/rankings and indices
Conference calls
Surveys
Investor meetings and conferences
Annual Report
Sustainability ReportAnnually
Quarterly
Annually
Biennially
Annually
Annually• Identified in general, sustainability is higher priority for European investors
Local CommunitiesDonations to local organizations
Community Advisory Panels
Employee volunteersQuarterly
Quarterly
Monthly• Identified specific needs
• Provided education on the chemical industry and our products
• Learned about their concerns
Regulators,  
authorities and  
public policy makersMeetings
Presentations
Site Visits
Risk assessments
Reports
Official public submissionsWeekly
Weekly
Regularly
Regularly
Regularly
As needed• Shaping public policy, regulation and law
• Identifying areas of common concern and opportunity 
Non-government 
organizations (NGOs)In-person meetings/conference calls
Project collaborations
Survey responses
Policies and best practicesQuarterly
Annually
As needed
As needed• Identified issues and solutions
• Increased trust and reputation
• Learned NGOs are more open to collaboration when we are transparent  
about issues
Industry associationsLeading and engaging on committees
Preparing industry submissions for 
public policy and regulation
AdvocacyWeekly
Quarterly
As ne eded• Developed shared industry priorities for advocacy
• Creating best practices for industry standards 
Academia, Research 
Institutes and 
OrganizationsSustainability Advisory Council*
Recruiting
StudiesBi-annually
As needed
As needed• Informed FMC on new innovations
• Received perspectives of basic researchers on our technologies
• Identified trends
3Stakeholder  
Engagement
WHO DO WE WORK WITH?
*See page 25 for details
FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   Linda Froelich,  
Corporate Sustainability DirectorEngaging in open and transparent dialog 
with our stakeholders on a regular basis is 
a key component to the continued success 
of our business.On an annual basis, FMC conducts a 
materiality assessment to determine key 
topics—those reflecting the company’s 
economic, environmental and social impacts, 
or influencing the decisions of stakeholders. 
Through a series of interviews and meetings 
with internal stakeholders, including executives, 
legal counsel, environmental health and safety 
professionals, business representatives, and 
formal surveys of employees and external 
stakeholders, we analyzed 62 potential 
material topics grouped into five categories. 
Through this process we identified the 
key topics of importance for sustainable 
development and FMC’s Sustainability Report. 
Throughout this report details are provided on 
actions we are taking to positively impact  
each topic.Materiality Assessment  
WHAT TOPICS ARE MOST IMPORTANT?
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 4
Throughout this report and on our sustainability website  
(www.FMCsustainability.com) you will learn how FMC is helping 
to address five of the world’s major challenges. As a highly 
focused specialty chemical company, our products, technologies 
and services are key to mitigating these challenges.  
FOOD + HEALTH EXPECTATIONS:  Food and crop 
production must increase to meet the basic needs 
of a rapidly growing population and the desires of 
a socio-economically diverse population seeking a 
wider array of nutritional options.ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS:  Growing 
interest in natural and benign materials is fueling 
the need for new, improved, bio-based products that 
reduce impact on the environment.
CLIMATE CHANGE: Reduction in greenhouse 
gas emissions is considered a necessary step in 
mitigating climate-warming trends.
 SCARCE RESOURCES:  To cope with limited availability of 
fresh water, energy, forests and other essential resources, 
we must carefully manage them and more widely use 
alternatives to non-renewables.
LAND COMPETITION: Urbanization to accommodate 
the growing population and poor land management 
techniques are limiting the amount of arable areas 
available for agriculture, which intensifies the need to 
increase farmland productivity and crop yields.
FMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 
2015 and this report is our third Communication on Progress. 
Endorsement of the UNGC demonstrates FMC’s commitment  
to make globalization more socially and ecologically compatible  
and to raise standards in human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. A complete table of FMC’s 
activities and management systems that support the 
10 principles of the Global Compact can be found at 
FMCsustainability.com . 
WE SUPPOR TMajor Global Challenges
United Nations Global Compact
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   5
ZERO
HUNGERLIFE  
ON LANDUNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
include 17 GOALS  and 169 TARGETS . In 2018, we will focus 
on goals #2 and #15 through our approach to link FMC’s 
defined Major Global Challenges with the UN SDGs. This 
will include a detailed review of SDG #2 and #15, and their 
associated targets on which FMC can make a positive impact.  
In 2015, FMC established innovation, safety, community 
engagement and environmental goals to ensure we make meaningful progress on our sustainability journey. We 
continue to make significant progress towards these goals 
as summarized below. The Health and Nutrition business 
significantly contributed to FMC’s overall environmental impact 
for the majority of 2017. Therefore, its manufacturing intensity 
data through the third quarter has been included in the update 
below. It will not be included in future reports. The Total Recordable Incident Rate for 2017 includes the newly acquired 
sites from DuPont’s Crop Protection business – now part of 
Agricultural Solutions. However, the other metrics do not include 
data from this acquisition. Due to the planned Initial Public 
Offering of our Lithium business and the recent acquisition, we 
will be resetting our goals in 2018.
GOAL BY 2020...
Achieve a Total Recordable 
Incident Rate (TRIR) of 0.30 
or lower.
We are proud to report our injury 
rate in 2017 was 0.18, the lowest 
full-year injury rate since FMC 
started tracking TRIR data. We 
continue to strive for zero injuries.
GOAL BY 2020...
Dedicate 80 percent  
of our R&D budget to 
develop sustainably 
advantaged products.
A sustainably advantaged product is 
one that positively impacts at least 
one of the Major Global Challenges 
while not having a negative effect 
on any of the others.R&D
2014 2015 2016 201767%76%82%
74%
2014.51
2015.51
2016 2017.22.18TRIRAchieve 100 on 
the Community 
Engagement Index 
which measures 
interactions with the 
communities where 
we work and live.
To reduce manufacturing intensities by 15 percent for energy, GHG 
emissions and waste, and by 20 percent for water use in high-risk 
locations versus the 2013 baseline. See our 2017 progress below:GOAL BY 2020...
GOALS BY 2025...
COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENT879197 96
2014 2015 2016 2017
FMC reports detailed data on the environmental footprint of each business. For information 
on energy, GHG, waste and water, see pages 28-29.  
21%
16%
14%
15%GHG EMISSIONS
WASTEENERGY
WATER USEintensity
intensityintensity
intensity in  
high-risk areasUpdate  
ON OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS
+
 +
OUR
RESPONSIBILITYOUR
PEOPLE
OUR
PRODUCTS
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 62020 GOAL (.30)2020 GOAL (80%)2020 GOAL (100)Publish a human rights policy
Have key environmental and safety data in our 2016 
Sustainability Report assured
Adhere to the GRI Standards for the annual  
Sustainability Report
Report to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) 
climate change module  Assess and report to CDP’s supply chain and  
water modules
Implement the new sustainability data collection system
Implement the External Sustainability Advisory Council
Improve sustainability in operations through waste 
assessments, social responsibility audits and the United 
States Department of Energy’s (DOE) energy assessment 
“treasure hunts”Make measurable progress on our Innovation, Business 
Practices and Environmental goals
Continue measuring our global logistics footprint*
Implement a pilot employee engagement program in Asia*
Complete sustainability training for Lithium and North 
America Agricultural Solutions commercial teams*
• Align FMC’s approach to the Major Global Challenges with 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and 
prioritize two of the goals to ensure we make positive impact
• Merge the product stewardship and sustainability 
assessment tools from FMC and DuPont’s Crop Protection 
business to ensure sustainable innovation of new products
• Reset innovation, business practice and operations goals 
and targets as FMC Agricultural Solutions and Lithium 
become two separate businesses as we continue on our 
sustainability journey
• Continue to measure our global logistics footprint to better 
understand and reduce our impacts and risks• Implement a pilot employee engagement program in Asia to 
help embed sustainability in everyday activities across our 
global offices
• Complete sustainability training for Lithium and North America 
Agricultural Solutions commercial teams, providing sustainability 
tools and resources they can use with our customers
• Continue utilizing the External Sustainability Advisory Council 
to help shape FMC’s global sustainability strategy
• Conduct pre-assurance of key environmental and safety data 
at newly acquired sites as part of the integration
• Implement a sustainability program as FMC Lithium 
continues its progress as a standalone company • Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy  
dependency by exploring options for renewable  
energy sourcing
• Conduct a life cycle assessment of lithium hydroxide  
to better inform our customers of the advantages of  
FMC supply
• Expand the Diversity and Inclusion plan to promote  
talent development and increased employee engagement2018 Commitments
*Continuing or planned for 2018Progress Report  
ON OUR 2017 COMMITMENTS
7 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   
Completed Partial Not Complete
Our employees are FMC’s most 
valuable asset. Ensuring a safe and 
inclusive workplace where they can 
bring their authentic selves to work 
is the company’s most important 
undertaking. FMC’s success is 
dependent on our ability to enable 
employees to develop their skills in 
alignment with their career aspirations.OUR
PEOPLE
We are focused on developing 
FMC employees to drive and 
sustain our company’s growth
Diversity & Inclusion 
is key to powering 
progress at FMC
FMC maintains a 
steadfast and diligent 
focus on safety
KEY 
TAKEAWAYSADVANCING SAFETY AND WELLNESS, 
EVERYWHERE WE ARE
At FMC, we empower our employees to put safety first, and
everyone is responsible for the safety of themselves and others. 
The culture of safety permeates all areas of business and 
applies to all employees at work, at home and on the road. We 
strive for zero injuries at FMC, and in 2017 we took another 
step closer to that goal with an injury rate of 0.18. This is the 
lowest full-year injury rate since FMC began keeping records 
and is a tribute to the dedication of our employees. We have 
maintained a steadfast and diligent focus on safety through the 
many changes and transitions over this past year.
2017 RESPONSIBLE CARE COMPANY OF 
THE YEAR AWARD
FMC received the American Chemistry Council (ACC) 
Responsible Care® “Company of the Year” award in 2017, 
recognizing the company as an industry leader in advancing 
business performance while protecting our employees and 
safeguarding the environment. To be eligible for the award 
companies must achieve a recordable injury rate in the top 
10 percent of companies in their size category, and must 
demonstrate positive performance trends in product stewardship, 
process safety, transportation safety and emissions reduction. Leadership and employee involvement were instrumental in 
earning FMC this recognition. As part of this award, FMC was 
recognized by ACC for collective efforts in:
• Achieving a significant reduction in total recordable  
incident rate
• Utilizing the award winning TH!NK. SAFE.™ safety  
awareness program
• Setting aggressive 2020 and 2025 sustainability and 
environmental impact goals
• Focusing on community engagement, product stewardship 
and process safety initiatives
Powering Breath for Safety
In an ever-changing world, filled with twists and turns, we must learn to control our reactions to 
stress, uncertainty and distraction. There’s a deep connection between our breath and our state of 
mind. When relaxed, we breathe deeply and slowly, releasing toxins from our body. We can focus on 
the task at hand, stay attuned to our surroundings and more clearly identify safety hazards. When 
frustrated, our breaths become rapid and disturbed, raising our heart rate and clouding our thinking. 
We can become distracted, forget things and overlook safety hazards. By controlling the patterns 
of our breath, we can create positive patterns in our mind. We can reduce stress, increase focus and 
ultimately stay safer.
The FMC Power Breath initiative launched in June, with a talk by Manoj Khanna, FMC’s Panoli, India site leader. Since the launch, our 
employees all over the world have been submitting videos and stories showcasing their “Power Breath” and how it has helped them 
to focus and stay safe.Pierre Brondeau, CEO and Chairman of FMCResponsible Care is a core value at FMC 
in many respects. It is much more than 
a system or a process - it has led to a 
culture of continuous improvement that has 
produced winning results with employees 
and in the communities we serve.
Karen M. Totland, 
Vice President, Global 
Procurement, Global Facilities 
and Corporate Sustainability, 
accepted the Responsible 
Care® “Company of 
the Year” award on 
behalf of FMC.
9 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   TRIR Results  
BY YEAR
2014.51
2015.51
2016 2017.22.18TRIR
2020 GOAL (.30)SAFETY...IN MANUFACTURING
Accomplishing the result of 0.18 TRIR required employee
diligence and effective systems.
PROCESS SAFETY MANAGEMENT
To ensure the safety of our employees, and surrounding 
environment at all FMC manufacturing sites, our award 
winning Process Safety Management (PSM) Standard is at 
the forefront of our safety initiatives. This standard provides 
employees with resources for process hazard identification 
and prioritization through the Process Hazard Level Screening 
Tool. The PSM Standard is a framework for understanding 
and controlling the hazards of manufacturing processes. It 
provides guidance for implementing a variety of management 
systems, including Management of Change and Emergency 
Response Plans. FMC manufacturing sites meet all regulated 
safety requirements. However, we are implementing the PSM 
standard in phases at sites where we have non-regulated, high 
hazard processes.ON THE ROAD
With the popular idea of healthy living, bike
sharing programs have been appearing across
China cities. The Asia Innovation Center organized
“Safety Riding Day” to instruct employees and contractors
in proper protective equipment and safe riding etiquette.
This training also included sharing rider experiences and
group discussions, and learning new skills such as hand
signals and braking safely.
IN THE OFFICE
FMC is exemplifying a safe office environment through its
Emergency Response Team. At FMC headquarters, each
of the nine floors has at least one designated Emergency
Responder, trained in First Aid, CPR and the use of a
defibrillator. In 2018, we are reinvigorating this program with
a new charter, expanded membership in our global offices,
and the use of best practices to improve our emergency
notification system.
IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
In 2017, FMC updated the Corporate Contractor Safety
Standard with a focus that ensures contractors on our sites
are well prepared to work safely. This was achieved through
the formation of specific safety metrics, in-process audits, and
annual evaluations and supervisor requirements. The updated
Standard was immediately implemented at the Minera del
Altiplano facility in Fenix, Catamarca, Argentina, due to the
large capital expansion project.
Working safely with hundreds of individuals from multiple
contract firms requires careful planning and coordination, clear
expectations for safe work, training, and diligent oversight.
For the second year 
in a row, a woman in 
leadership at FMC is 
being honored by the 
National Association 
of Manufacturers in 
Washington, DC.
Michelle Brown, Corporate Process 
Safety Manager for FMC, was named a 2018 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Production 
(STEP) Ahead Honoree for her outstanding work as 
an environmental, health and safety professional 
and leader in the community. “I am honored and 
humbled by this award,” said Michelle. “I have the 
unique position to educate our workforce and 
ensure our processes are safe for our employees 
and the surrounding environment. It’s important 
that we continue to empower and instruct the next 
generation of leaders to put safety first, at work and 
at home.”
Every day at work, at home and on the 
road - we continue to strive for zero 
injuries. Photo from “Safety Riding Day”.
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 10DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION   
THE KEY TO FMC’S CONTINUED GROWTH
At FMC, we are bringing together the best minds and 
resources to grow a company with countless opportunities 
for success. We are excited to welcome our new colleagues, 
and together we are ensuring a safe, inclusive workplace that 
develops our employees to achieve their high potential. 
A NEW VISION FOR  
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION (D&I) AT FMC  
FMC is a progressive and inclusive company with an engaged 
workforce of exceptional and diverse talent.
KEY ELEMENTS OF THE STRATEGY:
• Model and raise awareness about behaviors that enable 
everyone to contribute
• Increase employee involvement in affinity groups and  
D&I activities
• Create internal and external programs to attract, retain and 
develop diverse talent
• Establish specific metrics to assess progress towards  
key objectives
In a global company, growing and developing our diverse talent 
is paramount to success.2017 HIGHLIGHTS:
• Introduced three new employee affinity groups
• Launched an internal D&I website with valuable resources 
for all employees
• Broadened global employee awareness of D&I topics and 
career development through the “Fundamentals of Diversity 
and Inclusion” series of workshops and discussions, 
sponsored by FMC’s Executive Committee, featuring:
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION LEADERSHIP 
AWARD PROGRAM
In 2017, we launched the Diversity and Inclusion Leadership 
Award Program, to recognize employees who embody the 
mission of D&I. The program is comprised of four awards: 
• Women in Engineering Honoree recognizes female talent 
currently employed in manufacturing at any level, from the 
factory floor to the executive level
• Emerging Women Engineers Award recognizes female talent 
under 30 years old currently employed in the manufacturing 
industry that have already made significant contributions 
and excelled early in their career 
• Change Leader Award recognizes an employee who through 
their actions, perseverance and engagement made the 
workplace more welcoming and inclusive• Leadership in Diversity Team Award recognizes a team that 
has successfully integrated diversity and inclusion in its 
project routine and positively impacted an outcome
Anne Marie Slaughter on balancing the 
responsibilities in care giving and work
Christine Brennan on gender equality in  
the workplace
Photos taken at the award 
ceremony, held at FMC 
Tower in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA. Award 
winners were presented 
with a bonsai tree and 
hand-made vessel from 
local artist, Kiya Nicole. 
Each vessel represents 
diversity, inclusivity and 
growth through the design 
and tree.
11 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   WOMEN OF THE FMC OPERATING COMMITTEE
At FMC, our leadership is committed to addressing the gender 
gap in the workplace. As we progress toward a standalone 
Lithium business and transition to an agricultural sciences 
company, FMC has announced leadership changes effective 
June 1, 2018. This new operating committee will be led by Mark 
Douglas, President and Chief Operating Officer for FMC. The 
committee is now composed of 33 percent women, including:
 
Diane Allemang  
Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer
Susanne Lingard  
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
Amy O’Shea  
Vice President and Business Director,  
North America
Kathleen Shelton  
Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
Bethwyn Todd  
President, FMC Asia, Vice President and 
Business Director, Asia
Karen Totland  
Vice President, Global Procurement, Global 
Facilities and Corporate Sustainability
Andrea Utecht  
Executive Vice President, General CounselCULTIVATING OUR AFFINITY GROUPS
In 2017, our global workforce expanded and strengthened our D&I initiatives through existing employee affinity groups and  
the launch of three new affinity groups. These groups have been created by employees who share common interests  
and desires for an inclusive workplace.
Women’s Initiative Network
Mission: To raise the profile of women at FMC – promoting 
community engagement and wellbeing, networking and 
education and development.
Launched: 2014
New Generation
Mission: To raise awareness about 
diversity and promote a culture of 
inclusion as per the European Union 
Agency for Fundamental Rights. 
Launched: 2016
The Bridge Multicultural Affinity Group
Mission: To educate all employees on the business cultures 
where we operate and to provide best practices and resources 
when traveling and working in new places around the world.
Launched: 2017SPECTRUM LGBTQ Affinity Group
Mission: To support LGBTQ employees and allies, encourage an 
inclusive understanding of LGBTQ identity, increase appreciation 
for the challenges facing the community, provide learning, 
leadership and networking opportunities for LGBTQ individuals and 
allies and reinforce FMC’s commitment to fairness and equality.
Launched: 2017
Women in Engineering
Mission: To engage and enable women to achieve their full 
potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expand the image 
of the engineering profession as an FMC career path, and 
demonstrate the value of diversity. 
Launched: 2017
WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT
2017 results:  24 percent increase in Women in 
Management (grades 25+) since 2015. 
201726.7 %201626.1 %201521.6 %
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 12TRANSFORMATION FROM CAMPUS TO CORPORATE
In 2017, FMC Agricultural Solutions in Lahore, Pakistan, held a motivational 
workshop for university students, called “Transformation from Campus to 
Corporate,” during which they discussed: 
• Gender gap in society
• Importance of empowering women in local communities
• Significance of women participating in economic development
• How women and men can better work together
The workshop session on empowering women provoked lively discussions 
and learnings for all who attended.EMPOWERING  ALL  
WOMEN  AND  GIRLS
FMC promotes diversity and inclusivity throughout the company 
and in the communities where we live and work. We are taking an 
active role supporting education and talent development to  
promote equality.  EDUCATING GIRLS  
OF RURAL CHINA 
PROGRAM
The mission of Educating Girls of 
Rural China is to provide opportunity 
for young girls who come from 
particularly difficult circumstances 
to afford high school, thus improving 
their opportunities through 
education. FMC China committed 
to sponsoring students from Gansu 
Dingxi Dongfanghong Senior Middle 
School, Grade Ten, to help them 
finish high school and to develop 
leadership skills through training and 
mentorship programs.VALUING WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP
The Australia China Alumni Association has 
recognized Bethwyn Todd, Vice President and 
Business Director for FMC Agricultural Solutions 
and President of FMC Asia, with the Australian 
Ambassador’s Award for Women in Leadership. 
The award recognizes achievements of leading 
female graduates of Australian universities who 
inspire other women through their dedication, 
accomplishments and commitments to the Australia-
China relationship. LAHORE, PAKISTANGANSU PROVINCE, CHINA
SHANGHAI, CHINA
Bethwyn Todd, President, FMC Asia,  
Vice President and Business Director, Asia I remember how important it was for 
me to have strong female role models 
throughout my life. To now have the honor 
of receiving the Women in Leadership 
Award and to be recognized as an 
inspiration to other women is such a 
humbling experience.
Filza Ashan, Student at the University of Engineering and Technology in Lahore, Pakistan“The session was what we needed to help realize our potential and how 
much power we hold as girls who are studying to pursue our dreams.”
13 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   Argentina
Road and Driving Safety Training: 
raised awareness for risks and 
preventing collisions. 
 Colombia
Leadership Development Program: 
focused on managerial skills, 
strategic thinking, building 
engaged teams, and promoting a 
continuous learning environment 
in the workplace. Brazil
Technical Manufacturing Training: 
focused on technical, legal, and 
safety requirements for the 
manufacturing environment. Mexico
Product Technical Training: equipped 
our sales and marketing teams 
with the essential knowledge 
and technical aspects to educate 
growers on the benefits and proper 
use of plant biostimulants.
Talent Management
At FMC, we are focused on developing our employees 
to ensure a diverse talent pool is established to drive 
and sustain our growth. ENGINEERING  
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
FMC continues to improve our 
Engineering Development Program 
(EDP) to attract, develop and retain highly 
talented young engineers. EDP engineers 
are part of the Technical Center organizations 
within the Lithium and Agricultural Solutions 
businesses at FMC. The Program offers development 
through mentorship and training on key engineering 
fundamentals and provides opportunities for young engineers 
to lead projects at designated manufacturing sites. 
GRADUATE PROGRAM
In 2017, FMC in Cork, Ireland, introduced a new Internal 
Controls team and initiated the Graduate Program to grow 
a fresh talent pool at FMC. As part of the program, the six 
graduates participated in team building exercises and in-depth 
training on Internal Control processes and methodologies. In 
2018, the graduates will design and test internal controls at 
FMC locations in Brazil and Australia.
LATIN AMERICA LEADERSHIP AND 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
In 2017, Latin America Leadership and Development Programs 
included training across four countries with 720 participants. 
These programs focused on safety, leadership skills and 
behaviors and technical training on the new product portfolio.Maureen Anyanwu, current Lithium EDPBeing in the EDP has quickly introduced 
me to a wide network of FMC 
employees, including site personnel 
and senior leadership. I’m appreciative 
of the opportunity to learn and apply 
new skills and best practices in a 
collaborative environment.   
FMC supports a global and diverse workforce. Our total workforce 
includes 6,614 employees globally as of December 31, 2017.2017 FMC T otal Workforce  
BY REGION + GENDER
Females
MalesNORTH
AMERICA
1,716
employees
LATIN
AMERICA
948
employeesEMEA
1,476
employees
ASIA  
PACIFIC
2,474
employees31.8%
21.7%70.7%
22.2%68.2%
78.3%29.3%
77.8%
New Internal Controls team members during 
a team building exercise in Cork, Ireland.
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 14UNIVERSITY  
PARTNERSHIPS
FMC has a long history of working with universities  
to ensure the most talented students are aware of the 
company’s opportunities.
Internships
FMC offers a variety of summer internship opportunities 
for undergraduates and post-graduates to gain valuable 
experience working in research, operations, sales and 
marketing, procurement, legal and human resources. In 2017, 
Agricultural Solutions in North America hired five summer 
interns for roles in our regional sales and marketing offices. 
These interns were given opportunities to learn about 
the agricultural industry and present their work to senior 
leadership at our Philadelphia headquarters.
Cooperatives
One of our most valued relationships in Philadelphia is with 
Drexel University’s undergraduate student cooperative program 
(co-ops). In 2017, FMC employed 17 co-op students who were 
placed in each business and in some corporate functions. 
They applied their knowledge from coursework on projects in 
marketing, sales, engineering, finance and procurement. The 
co-op student experience includes meeting with executive and 
senior leadership and presenting final project results to their 
managers and teams.LEADING CHANGE
We are proud and excited to welcome our new colleagues from 
DuPont’s Crop Protection business, and to help facilitate the 
integration we launched the Change Champion Network in July 
2017. The Change Champions are a global, cross functional 
group of over 200 employees from heritage FMC and heritage 
DuPont organizations who help communicate important 
updates and information, answer questions, listen to concerns 
and relay feedback to leadership.CULTURE SURVEY
A strong company culture has a meaningful impact on 
results. In 2017, FMC launched an initiative to help define 
and articulate the culture of the “new” FMC, particularly 
because the company has evolved rapidly over the last few 
years. Nearly 70 percent of employees from heritage FMC 
and heritage DuPont completed a culture survey, and many 
participated in interviews and focus groups. The assessment 
surfaced shared beliefs across the employee population 
around safety, ethics, sustainability and inclusion. In 2018, 
employees around the world will be involved in discussions 
about the results of the survey and how they can bring our 
shared values to life in their teams.Kenzie Kretzmeier , Agricultural 
Solutions summer internGrowing up on a corn and soybean 
farm, I took for granted what goes 
into pest control and plant health. 
I’ve interned with FMC for the past 
two summers and during this time 
developed a passion for agronomy. I’m 
proud to be working with a thriving 
company, great people, and great 
products, knowing that we can support 
all farmers and that the needs of a 
growing population can be met.
15
 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   As the world population continues to grow, 
action is required to increase agricultural 
productivity and promote adoption 
of advanced energy solutions, while 
conserving the world’s finite resources. 
Many of the products in our current 
portfolio are helping our customers 
address these challenges today and for 
the future. Products in our R&D pipeline 
will increase crop yields and help provide 
more sustainable alternatives for energy 
storage and transportation.OUR
PRODUCTS
KEY 
TAKEAWAYS
We work to ensure safe 
use and proper stewardship 
of our products during all 
stages of their life cycleFMC provides innovative 
product solutions to 
meet the needs of  
our customers
We invest in R&D to 
develop sustainably 
advantaged products
EXPANDING OUR RESEARCH & 
DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLY 
ADVANTAGED PRODUCTS
In 2015, we set a goal to dedicate 80 percent of R&D 
investment toward sustainably advantaged products by 
2020. FMC development managers review the sustainability 
data on projects in development on a quarterly basis. The 
results are aggregated across the Agricultural Solutions and 
Lithium businesses to determine the total R&D spend toward 
sustainably advantaged products, as a percentage of total R&D 
spend. In 2017, we achieved 82 percent of total R&D spend on 
sustainably advantaged products, surpassing our 2020 goal. 
This was realized through the dedication of our global  
R&D teams. 
With the acquisition of a significant portion of DuPont’s Crop 
Protection Business, we expanded FMC’s Agricultural Solutions 
R&D sites from five to 20, safeguarding competitiveness and 
continued access for growers to new innovative chemistries 
that protect crops and improve yields. 
TAKING ACTION TO END HUNGER
Around 815 million people globally suffer from food insecurity. 
More effort and innovation are needed to sustainably increase 
agricultural production and decrease food losses and waste to 
ensure that all who are suffering from hunger and malnutrition 
have access to nutritious food. 
A major challenge in modern agriculture is the development 
of resistant pests – weeds, diseases and insects that adapt 
to changing conditions and can no longer be controlled 
with existing products and modes of action. Resistance 
development is a natural process that cannot be prevented, but 
it can be managed and impacts on crop production minimized.FMC is committed to three pillars that help in the fight against 
resistance. They are:
Development of new products, including synthetic 
active ingredients and biologicals, with new modes 
of action that can control pests that are resistant to 
other chemistries.
Commitment to sound resistance management and  
product stewardship practices ensuring our products 
are used responsibly.
Encouragement and use of best crop management 
and integrated pest management strategies.1
2
3
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is part of 
sustainable agriculture which focuses on managing 
pests using a diverse set of available technologies. 
The “fit” of a product in an IPM program depends 
on its chemical, physical and control characteristics. 
To learn about FMC’s commitment to resistance 
management and sustainable agriculture please 
visit, FMCSustainability.com.
21 R&D
SITES
including Lithium and 
Agricultural Solutions after 
acquiring a significant 
portion of DuPont’s Crop 
Protection Business
17 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   R&D Spend  
BY YEAR
2017 Progress 
toward 2020 
Target for 
Research and 
Development: 
80 percent 
of R&D to 
sustainable 
productsR&D
2014 2015 2016 201767%76%82%
74%2020 GOAL (80%)The acquisition of Rynaxypyr® insect control and Cyazypyr® 
insect control expands FMC’s product portfolio by offering 
targeted pest management with minimal impact on natural 
enemies, pollinators, and the environment through their modes 
of action. Additionally, due to its unique mode of action, the 
newly acquired insect control active ingredient, indoxacarb, 
is a preferred tool in rotational programs and resistance 
management. With a focused approach to the three pillars, FMC 
is delivering products aimed to fight and prevent resistance and 
ensure growers have the right tools for their crops.
 
PLANT HEALTH
FMC’s approach to advancing sustainable agriculture centers 
on a diversified approach to crop protection and plant health. In 
2017, we clarified our strategy and began expanding our Plant 
Health business, which consists of three categories: 
BioSolutions  – crop protection products derived  
from natural bacteria found in plants, soil, nematodes 
and fungi
Seed Treatments  – industry-leading insecticides 
combined with specific disease-fighting bacteria to 
protect the seed and nurture an emerging plant
Micronutrients  – soil treatments to ensure that 
plants have the optimal environment to grow strong 
and stable cropsIn BioSolutions, we are developing a portfolio of high-performing, 
proprietary biological products with fungicidal, nematicidal, 
insecticidal, and/or biostimulant activities. 
GLOBAL SPECIALTY SOLUTIONS 
FMC is committed to growing its Specialty Solutions 
business by providing pest control for lawn and tree care 
professionals, ornamental growers, and homeowners.
FMC continues expanding options for controlling mosquito 
populations and slowing the progression of mosquito 
borne diseases, an important issue in public health. In the 
aftermath of the 2017 hurricanes in the United States, 
residents in the Gulf Coast were exposed to areas of 
receding floodwaters. These swampy areas can become 
breeding grounds for populations of Culex  and Aedes aegypti  
mosquitoes, the species that primarily carry and transmit 
the West Nile virus and Zika virus, respectively. In response, 
we extended our Mosquito PromiseTM Program, guaranteeing 
45 days of no call backs from customers due to resurgence 
of mosquitoes after a Talstar® Professional Insecticide 
treatment. If any call-backs occur within the 45-day period, 
FMC makes a re-application to the treated area free  
of charge.1
2
3
AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS INTERNS – ETHOS® XB INSECTICIDE/FUNGICIDE STUDY
In 2017, Agricultural Solutions hired five summer interns in the United States for our regional sales and marketing offices. 
As part of the internship, the students conducted a study using Ethos® XB product to better understand how crops react to 
treatment. The biofungicide active ingredient in Ethos® XB insecticide/fungicide begins growing in soils around 50 degrees 
Fahrenheit and continues to grow with the crops’ roots. It is the first in-furrow solution that creates a complete Zone of 
ProductionTM around growing seedlings at a critical period when yield potential is most easily impacted. The results of the 
study indicated treated fields produced higher crop yields per acre, stronger root systems and increased stalk circumference 
than untreated fields.
DELIVERING PRECISION 
AGRICULTURE SOLUTIONS
In conjunction with the chemistries that fight 
diseases and pests, 3RIVE 3D® technology is 
a more efficient and sustainable method of 
applying products. FMC continually seeks 
to expand utilization of this on-planter 
application technology that minimizes labor, 
water use, fuel use and time. FMC’s next step 
is formulating biological products, including VGR® 
soil amendment and Ethos® XB insecticide/
fungicide, for use in the 3RIVE 3D® system, 
further expanding the options for using 
sustainably advantaged products in this 
innovative and efficient technology. 
To enhance the use of our pre- and post-
emergent herbicide products, FMC’s precision 
platform has expanded with the DuPont 
acquisition to include the PrecisionPac® 
herbicide blend dispensing system. These 
unique herbicide mixtures, containing up to 
six active ingredients in nearly 50 custom 
blends, are dispensed at local retail outlets 
and provide high-performing weed control 
which is targeted to the 
specific weed spectrum in 
a field. The PrecisionPac® 
system dispenses the correct 
quantity of products for a 
specific field ensuring the 
safety for growers through 
no manual exposure and 
reducing waste on the farm 
and at the retailers. FMC is 
committed to exploring the 
use of the PrecisionPac® 
system to incorporate 
insecticides and fungicides.
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 18PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Product stewardship is an integrated business process used 
to identify, manage and minimize the environmental, health 
and safety impacts of a product at every stage of its life cycle. 
It starts with design and development and continues through 
manufacturing, distribution, storage, end use, and finally 
recycling or disposal of containers and packaging. 
FMC is committed to promoting effective stewardship in 
the field, and the appropriate management and use of our 
products supports sustainable agriculture, safeguards the 
environment and promotes public health. 
Our ability to improve lives through our technologies can only 
be achieved when products are used safely and as directed. 
We provide information and training on safe handling practices 
and hazards to researchers, manufacturers, distributors, 
applicators and growers. We work to ensure label directions for 
crop protection products are followed at all times.
We value partnerships with our customers that foster two-way 
communication. We encourage them to raise questions and 
issues so we can promptly address them.FMC uses the “Seven Habits of Responsibility,” a simple set of 
easy-to-understand, easy-to-remember steps, to make safety 
a daily habit for anyone working with pesticides, especially 
growers and applicators.
Use only registered pesticides and always read and 
follow the label
Wear appropriate personal protective equipment
Properly maintain and calibrate equipment
Triple rinse empty containers, when appropriate, and 
properly dispose of them
Store pesticides securely in their original containers
Transport pesticides safely and have spill kits available
Practice personal hygiene after using pesticides
Several years ago, FMC developed the Product Stewardship 
and Sustainability Assessment tool to measure and 
accelerate sustainability in FMC’s research and development. 
The tool assesses the sustainability of a product from 
initial concept through each stage of development. It is a 
comparative analysis using products currently on the market, and it considers the life cycle of the product, including risks 
to human health and the environment. The assessment tool 
aligns our collective efforts as we develop new products. 
Our colleagues joining FMC from DuPont similarly assessed 
products using life cycle assessment tools. In 2018, we will 
combine these assessment tools to ensure we are developing 
and introducing the best products.
FMC is committed to introducing products that control only 
target pests and promote ecosystem and human health. 
Our strategy is to replace older crop protection products 
with new technologies. In 2017, we completed a full analysis 
of our portfolio, including the new products acquired from 
DuPont’s Crop Protection business, to determine which ones 
may be classified as Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs). 
The HHP classification is based on the United Nations Food 
and Agricultural Organization criteria. Results indicated that 
we have four active ingredients and several inert ingredients 
which would be classified as HHPs. FMC will be phasing these 
active ingredients out of our portfolio as we develop newer 
chemistries. Local use risk assessments were conducted 
on these products. These assessments indicate that label 
instructions and personal protective equipment are adequate 
to mitigate risk from products containing these active 
ingredients. An inert replacement program is well underway 
and a process developed to ensure no inert ingredients 
classified as HHPs will be used in future product formulations. 
FMC has also signed CropLife International’s declaration to 
not develop any future HHPs.
We will continue to use extensive product stewardship 
programs to guide and ensure proper and safe use of  
our products.
EVALIO® AGROSYSTEMS
We are excited to add Evalio® AgroSystems, an Integrated Pest Management tool and monitoring 
service available to growers in Europe for sustainable pest control in high value crops such as 
tomatoes, lettuce, corn, potatoes and oilseed rape, as part of the newly acquired technologies of FMC. 
It monitors pest populations and their movements during the season with real-time warnings and 
detailed analytics. FMC is investigating options to expand the use of this tool into other regions to 
support growers’ needs and promote sustainable pest management. 
1
743
62
5
19 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   Rarely does an innovation that changes the 
properties of lithium emerge, but with Lectro® 
Max Powder we are opening up a world of 
possibilities. Light microscopy image of SLMP® 
product coated in plastic film (10X). 
The Performance TriangleRolling 
Resistance  
(Fuel Economy)
Wet Grip  
(Safety)Abrasion 
Resistance  
(Service Life)POWERING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
At FMC, we mine and refine lithium which is enabling our 
world to reduce dependency on fossil fuels and, as a result, 
reduce the effects of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 
We are committed to meeting the needs of our customers and 
supporting the transition to a low carbon future by providing 
the highest quality lithium products for energy storage,  
electric vehicles, fuel efficient tires, and many other  
advanced materials.
LITHIUM HYDROXIDE
In 2017, FMC successfully commissioned and scaled up a new 
lithium hydroxide plant in China, currently the world’s largest 
battery and electric vehicle market. This expansion will allow 
us to meet demand for high-quality lithium hydroxide to power 
electrified transportation. 
As regulators in the world’s major automotive markets continue 
to tighten fuel economy standards and announce targets to 
ban internal combustion engines, there has been a shift toward 
vehicles with varying degrees of electrification. In recent years, 
global sales of electric vehicles have increased by at least 
40 percent annually and research has shown that customers 
prefer pure electric vehicles, especially as the driving range of 
these vehicles increase. For electric vehicles, energy density 
is the key variable to achieve high performance, long battery life and efficient charging. FMC researchers 
are continually delivering reliable, safe and 
technologically advanced products which lead 
to higher performance for electric vehicles.
Lectro® Max Powder, a proprietary stabilized 
lithium metal powder (SLMP®) product, 
improves battery performance, reduces costs 
and enhances safety by enabling the use of new 
anode and cathode materials. We have manufactured 
lithium into very fine stabilized particles of consistent size and 
composition, improving safety in handling and shipping. 
FMC continues to expand the uses of its SLMP® product and 
to develop advanced application technologies that enhance 
Li-ion batteries and expand into rechargeable lithium metal 
batteries. These innovations will result in more efficient and 
safe manufacturing.
BUTYLLITHIUM
FMC’s butyllithium (BuLi) is used as a catalyst for polymer 
production employing a process known as anionic polymerization. 
With this process, our customers are able to selectively control 
the polymer structure at the molecular level, which allows for 
tailoring its properties for specific uses such as elastomers 
(e.g., rubber), adhesives and packaging materials. One of the 
key end uses for FMC’s BuLi is styrene butadiene rubber (SBR), 
an ingredient in synthetic tires. Vehicle tires have to strike a 
balance between their ability to safely hold the road under poor weather conditions (wet grip), their resistance to wear (abrasion 
resistance) and their fuel efficiency (rolling resistance). The tire 
performance can account for 20 to 30 percent of the energy 
used by the vehicle, so choosing the best tire can have a major 
effect on fuel efficiency. 
Car and truck transport accounts for over 18 percent of world’s 
energy use and around 17 percent of the energy-related 
CO2 emissions. SBR produced using BuLi can improve the 
composition of tire materials to produce advanced, low-rolling 
resistance tires. These tires can save energy and reduce fuel 
consumption up to 10 percent on every vehicle that uses them, 
thereby reducing emissions.
40%
INCREASE
in global sales of electric vehicles
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 20
LITHIUM METAL
FMC’s high-purity lithium metal is widely used for making 
low-density alloys used in aerospace applications. In 2016, over 
190 countries adopted the world’s first agreement, developed 
by the International Civil Aviation Organization, to curb 
aviation’s GHG emissions. The agreement seeks to improve 
fuel economy and to accelerate the purchase of newer, more 
efficient aircraft. Currently, international aviation is responsible 
for approximately two percent of global GHG emissions. Low-
density lithium-aluminum alloys – with FMC lithium metal – 
are a key part of high-strength, light, metallic aero-structures, 
which are used in commercial aircraft, business and private 
jets, rockets, and spacecraft to reduce fuel consumption  
and emissions.
FMC’s high-purity lithium metal is also used for non-rechargeable 
batteries in defense, medical, and residential devices. High-purity 
lithium metal’s high-strength and low-density properties make 
it ideal for the development of solid-state battery technology, 
and can represent a huge potential for advancement of electric 
transportation beyond advanced lithium-ion battery technology.PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
We seek to minimize negative impacts of a product during 
all stages of its life cycle, from refining and processing, to 
transportation and end of life. In 2017, we developed and 
implemented risk assessment criteria and safety training for 
new butyllithium and lithium metal customers to ensure safe 
use and handling. A revised safe handling guidance document 
for butyllithium will be issued in 2018. As we continually 
improve our processes, we are committed to partnering with 
customers and monitoring suppliers to ensure all safety 
standards are met or exceeded when delivering our products 
to customers around the world. 
FMC Lithium maintains a steadfast commitment to safety and 
sustainability through the planned separation. We will continue 
to build on our sustainable innovations, business practices and 
operations to grow and deliver high quality solutions to meet 
our customers’ needs. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING: 
SUSTAINABLE EXPANSION IN 
MINERA DEL ALTIPLANO S.A.
FMC production facilities are in South America’s 
“lithium triangle,” which is the source of 58 percent 
of all the lithium resources in the world. Our site is 
located 4,200 meters above sea level in Argentina’s 
Andes Mountains. We draw brine from El Salar 
del Hombre Muerto to produce lithium. We have 
developed an innovative proprietary extraction 
technology that separates lithium more efficiently 
than natural evaporation. This selective adsorption 
process yields higher purity lithium than natural 
evaporation which is critical for our customers - high 
purity means better performance
Responsible stewardship of the environment is 
essential to our work at the Salar. We utilize 14 control 
programs to manage and record environmental 
parameters such as water flows, chemical transport 
and salinity to safeguard the environment. FMC 
Lithium is currently expanding operations in 
Argentina, and at each step of that process we 
are ensuring that the expansion will not negatively 
impact the ecosystem. Our current production 
utilizes water from the Trapiche aquifer. To ensure 
we responsibly steward the resources in the area, 
a secondary source, Los Patos River, will be utilized 
for the expansion. As an added precaution, we have 
implemented monitoring wells on both water sources 
to continually monitor water levels, recharge rate and 
water chemistry to ensure sustainable water use.
21 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   
CATAMARCA, ARGENTINAFMC partners with our 
suppliers to reduce our 
environmental footprint from 
product packaging and logisticsWe are making 
progress to reduce 
our environmental 
impactsThe communities in 
which FMC operates 
are vital to the 
company’s success
At FMC, we are committed to 
reducing the environmental and 
social impacts of our manufacturing 
processes and products and to 
advancing the well-being of the 
communities in which we operate 
and live.  OUR
RESPONSIBILITY
KEY 
TAKEAWAYS
GROWING RESULTS:  
MANAGING AND REDUCING OUR IMPACTS
Energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use and 
disposed waste are key impacts of chemical manufacturing, 
and FMC manufacturing sites report these impacts on a 
quarterly basis. Both Agricultural Solutions and Lithium take 
a strategic approach to reducing their environmental impacts 
and achieving their targets. In addition, we remain committed 
to advancing the communities around our facilities.
In 2018, we will incorporate the new manufacturing and R&D 
sites into FMC processes and reset the environmental and 
community engagement goals due to the transformation of 
the company.
EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES
The communities in which FMC operates are vital to the 
company’s success. It is our responsibility to empower our 
employees to be active in the communities where we work 
and live. To understand how we can positively influence those 
communities, each FMC-owned manufacturing site reports 
every quarter on community activities, which are organized 
into four categories: 
    • Safety        • Operational Transparency
    • Community Partnership     • Community LeadershipIf a site completes an activity in each of the four categories, 
thus providing diverse and valuable interactions with the 
community, they earn a 100 on the Community Engagement 
Index. The 2017 combined Agricultural Solutions and Lithium 
result of 97 on the Index shows that we are making meaningful 
progress towards our 2020 goal of 100.
FMC’S WATER RISK ASSESSMENT
It is well known that rapid urbanization and climate change are creating substantial concerns about water availability in specific areas of the world. FMC works to address the major 
global challenges and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at our manufacturing sites by conserving resources and reducing our footprint. UN SDG 15 targets “life on land” and 
seeks to ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems. To understand FMC’s exposure to water risk and learn how to mitigate 
those potential risks, we annually conduct a Water Risk Assessment (WRA) that cross-references water use details from our manufacturing sites with the World Resources Institute’s 
(WRI) “Aqueduct” water mapping tool. The assessment combines WRI’s expertise and our understanding of site specific water situations to identify FMC’s high risk water sites. 
The WRA was first conducted in 2013, but as FMC has changed we have re-assessed our manufacturing sites and today identify 11 facilities in water-stressed areas. We 
are actively engaging with the communities and local authorities to ensure our facilities have rigorous water management strategies, and we are making progress 
toward our 2025 goal of 20 percent reduction in water use intensity. In 2018, as we integrate our newly acquired manufacturing sites, we will assess them 
using the WRA process.
23 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   Community Engagement Index Results  
BY YEAR
The Index measures interaction with our communities 
in four areas: operational transparency, safety, 
community leadership and community partnership.  COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENT879197 962020 GOAL (100)Safety   
We commit to sharing FMC safety expertise with our  
families and neighbors to cultivate a safe environment.
At the FMC Lithium site in Zhangjiagang, 
China, site personnel hosted Family Safety 
Day celebrations. They invited all family 
members and neighbors to participate in 
games and to answer questions on daily 
safety activities and behavior. Employees 
demonstrated safety practices and discussed 
the TH!NK.SAFE.™ program during an incident 
learning workshop.
Operational transparency  
We commit to transparency so that our business activities 
are well understood in the community. 
FMC Agricultural Solutions in Flintshire, United 
Kingdom, provided in depth site tours of the 
facilities to first responders in the community. 
The site tour included a briefing on FMC’s 
safety culture and information on the safety 
and environment. The tour was followed by 
evacuation drills and a round table discussion 
on the site’s External Emergency Plan.
Community leadership  
We commit to sharing our leadership skills to advance 
community initiatives and ensure its continued wellbeing.
The Uberaba Technological Park in Uberaba, 
Brazil, hosted the first technical visits of 
the “Bridges of Innovation” initiative. This 
initiative links science and manufacturing 
to increased economic, environmental 
and social sustainability. A group of 15 
chemical engineering students and technical 
coordinators were invited to meet with 
FMC Agricultural Solutions leaders to learn 
about our environmental, health and safety 
management systems. Community partnership  
We commit to sharing our personal and professional skills, 
talents and interests to positively impact our communities.
Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics (STEM) education programs 
are necessary to ensure young people are 
prepared for careers in these important 
fields. Since 2013, employees from FMC 
Lithium in Bessemer City, North Carolina, 
United States have partnered with the 
STEM Outdoor Learning Fair.  
In addition to the four categories above, promoting food security 
and improved nutrition across our locations is an important part 
of FMC’s community engagement strategy.
Two long-term partnerships include: 
Nutrition development program
In Minera del Altiplano, Argentina (MdA), our 
employees provide nutritionally balanced 
lunches at three schools in the Antofagasta 
de la Sierra village. The objective of the 
program is to ensure children and pregnant 
women receive proper nutrition for growth 
and development.
Philabundance
This is an impactful and collaborative 
organization distributing more than 24 
million pounds of food each year to those 
in need across the Philadelphia area. The 
“Fresh for All” program puts good quality, 
fresh produce into the hands of those who 
need it. FMC employees volunteer each 
month to distribute fresh, seasonal produce 
to local residents.
Augusto Rastelli , chemical engineering 
studentThe opportunity to participate in an 
engaging presentation was a great 
learning experience for all of the 
students. The success of this event 
was due to the commitment of  
FMC’s leadership.
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 24600
STUDENTS
participated in the STEM Outdoor 
Learning Fair in Bessemer City, 
North Carolina, U.S.A.
PROPER STEWARDSHIP OF  
OUR REMEDIATION SITES
FMC’s approach to remediation focuses on transforming
industrial sites that we previously owned or operated
into useable spaces where other businesses and natural
ecosystems can thrive. Each site has its own set of unique
challenges. By working with local leaders and proactively
developing remediation plans with their input, we continue to
improve our process for redeveloping sites.
The conceptual design above represents the planned 
redevelopment of a former FMC property in Santa Clara, 
California, U.S.A., into a mixed-use area including residential 
buildings, retail space and a neighborhood park.
In 2017, we received approval to curtail the groundwater
extraction and treatment system at this site through 
successful achievement of our remediation goal. With this 
approval, we will reduce groundwater withdrawal by over 67 
million gallons annually.PARTNERING FOR  
A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 
At FMC, we recognize that major components of our environmental 
and social footprints exist outside of our own manufacturing, 
and as our network grows in scale and complexity we have 
increasing opportunities for collaboration with our supply chain. 
In the United States, FMC partners with an external 
screening and risk management provider, to qualify “high-
risk” contractors. High-risk contractors are those that may be 
exposed to the potential hazards of the manufacturing site 
or may expose personnel, the community or the environment 
to additional hazards while performing work. The third-party 
process applies particular scrutiny to these contractors’ safety 
and environmental performance. In 2017, 100 percent of our 
high-risk contractors in the US were screened and will be 
re-screened annually. In 2018, we will expand our network into 
our other countries and regions.
EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY  
ADVISORY COUNCIL
The sustainability of an organization relies on its 
ability to adapt and grow. To move FMC forward on 
our journey, we launched an external Sustainability 
Advisory Council in 2017. The scope of the Council is 
to help shape FMC’s global strategy through the lens 
of sustainability and provide insights and feedback on 
sustainability priorities from an external perspective. 
Members of the Council include: 
Robynne Anderson • President, Emerging Ag Inc.
Richard Ellis • Vice President, CSR, Walgreens  
Boots Alliance
Bruce Klafter • Vice President, Corporate Social and 
Environmental Responsibility, Flex
Brad A. Molotsky • Partner, Duane Morris LLP
Julie O’Brien • Director, Corporate Sustainability, Air 
Products and Chemicals, Inc. 
Dale Sands • Principal, MD Sands Consulting LLC 
Katherine Sierra • Former Vice President, Sustainable 
Development, World Bank
Michael Spanos • Managing Director, Global  
Sustain Group
John Streur • President & Chief Executive Officer, 
Calvert Research and Management
Gary Survis • Venture Partner, Insight Venture Partners
Bruce Piasecki • Founder, AHC Group*
Dwight Bedsole • Senior Associate, AHC Group*
*Facilitating Partners
25 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   GLOBAL LOGISTICS NETWORK
Freight transportation is one of the fastest growing sectors. 
It is projected that carbon dioxide emissions from global 
freight transport will increase by a factor of four by 2050. As 
supply chains become more complex and customer demand 
increases, FMC is committed to greater transparency and 
understanding of our logistics impacts. We utilize multiple 
transportation modes to move raw materials and products, 
including road, rail, air, and ocean freight. In 2017, we joined the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay® Partnership 
program. Through this partnership, we have identified that 80 
percent of the carriers we currently utilize to transport our 
Agricultural Solutions’ supplies and products in North America 
participate in SmartWay®.
 
The SmartWay® program supports companies’ initiatives to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from freight supply chain 
activities. It manages data for over 3,500 partners across all 
domestic shipping modes in the U.S. and Canada. SmartWay® 
supports organizations in achieving their environmental reduction 
goals by analyzing freight impacts, engaging with experts, 
developing strategic resources and communication strategies, 
and serving as an international model for green freight programs.
In 2018, FMC will establish a partnership with BDP 
International, Inc. and the Smart Freight Centre to pilot 
a Logistics Emissions Accounting & Reduction Network 
project. This project will test the use of the Global Logistics 
Emission Council Framework for measuring and accounting 
transportation emissions from multiple modes. The long-
term objective of these partnerships is to identify areas of 
improvement and develop a strategy to decrease emissions 
associated 
with global 
logistics through 
best practices 
and network 
optimization. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
In 2012, FMC Agricultural Solutions in Brazil initiated a project 
to replace the existing 100 percent fossil packages, Virgin 
Polyethylene HDPE, with more sustainable materials. This effort 
resulted in FMC developing two types of packages. “Family Green” 
packages produced from sugarcane, known as Polyethylene 
Green, display the “I’m Green” seal and use at least 51 percent 
Polyethylene Green. In 2017, Family Green packages represented 
53 percent of the packages used in Brazil and by 2018, it is 
expected to reach 82 percent. This growth would not be possible 
without the dedication and partnership of our employees and 
packaging suppliers.The other type of packaging represents 18 percent of our 
volume. It is produced with at least 85 percent of recycled 
polyethylene and 15 percent of virgin fossil material. In this way, 
nearly 100 percent of the hard packages used by Agricultural 
Solutions in Brazil will be either Family Green or include 
recycled materials. Through this project FMC is helping to 
advance innovative packaging technologies and reduce our 
environmental footprint. 
Ronaldo Pereira , President, FMC Latin 
America, Vice President and Business 
Director, Latin AmericaThis package follows the highest 
standards of quality, safety and 
performance in the market. It also 
reduces the environmental impact of the 
production and the disposal of packages.
It is expected by 2018 that the “Family Green” packaging program will have contributed 
to the reduction of 13,628 metric tons of CO 2 in the atmosphere, an equivalent value to 
a car driving around the Earth 1,330 times . The goal of the program is to reduce the 
impact on the environment and advance the use of innovative technologies.
1,330 13,628 =
TIMES METRIC TONS
of C0 2 saved from Earth’s atmosphere a car driving around the Earth
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 26U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (DOE)  
BETTER PLANTS PROGRAM
In partnership with the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Better Plants Program, 
FMC conducted a workshop on energy efficiency improvement in steam systems 
at our manufacturing site in Bessemer City, North Carolina, U.S. The workshop 
was led by one of the US-DOE’s industrial experts and was attended by more 
than a dozen FMC employees from Lithium and 
Agricultural Solutions. The program was part of 
an ongoing partnership with the US-DOE Better 
Plants Program, and in 2018 we will assess how 
to apply the findings from this project to our 
global manufacturing sites.
BESSEMER CITY, NORTH CAROLINA
TANZANIA
ZIMBABWEREDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT  
EMPLOYEE PILOT PROJECT IN ASIA
Across FMC’s Asia Region our employees are passionate about 
sustainability. It is a part of everything we do from R&D and 
safety, to Diversity and Inclusion, community 
engagement and operations. In our offices, we 
are continuing to identify ways of reducing our 
environmental footprint. In 2018, our employees 
in Asia will pilot two projects to reduce paper 
use and electricity consumption in our offices.
PANTHERA LION SCOUTS:  
BUILDING COMMUNITY-BASED CONSERVATION LANDSCAPES
In Africa, people reliant on subsistence agriculture and animal husbandry struggle to coexist 
with lions and other predators. FMC continues to support Panthera – the world’s leading 
organization devoted exclusively to the conservation of wild cats and their ecosystems – to 
safeguard areas of the Ruaha National Park in Tanzania, Hwange National Park in Zimbabwe 
and the Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area in Namibia. Panthera implements 
practical solutions in those areas to preserve wildlife, biodiversity and communities. 
Panthera has stemmed the impacts of human-lion conflict 
in protected areas and adjacent communities. In the past 
year, the Ruaha Lion Defenders repaired over 100 livestock 
corrals and recovered over 3,000 missing heads of livestock 
– a value of more than $500,000 for the livestock owners. 
The Hwange Long Shields constructed mobile corrals to hold 
livestock for 90 families. The mobile corrals have stopped 
all lion predation and helped improve crop yields and food 
security for communities around Hwange.
NAMIBIADr. Paul Funston with lion 
guardian David Nchinda 
receiving a treasured 
gift of hand-carved teak 
“clappers” used by the 
guardians when chasing 
lions away from village and 
cattle grazing areas.
 
Photo Credit:  
Lovemore Sibanda.
Photo Credit: Paul Funston - Panthera.27 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   MANILA, PHILIPPINESSEOUL, SOUTH KOREA2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017GLOBAL ENERGY USE 
BY BUSINESSTotal Energy Use (Terajoules)
Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per Tonne) 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,000
10.020.030.040.050.060.0GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS 
BY BUSINESSTotal GHG Emissions (K-Tonnes CO 2e)
GHG Intensity (Tonnes CO 2e per Tonne)
100200300400500600700
1.00
0.501.502.002.503.003.50
Health and Nutrition Total
 Lithium Total
 Agricultural Solutions Total
Agricultural Solutions
Active Ingredient Contract
Manufacturing Total
GLOBAL WASTE DISPOSED 
BY BUSINESSTotal Waste Disposed (K-Tonnes)
Waste Disposed Intensity (Kg per Tonnes)10,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,000
100.0200.0300.0400.0500.0
Lithium Intensity Agricultural Solutions IntensityGLOBAL HIGH-RISK WATER USE
BY BUSINESS*Total High Risk Water Use (Million Cubic Meters)
High Risk Water Use Intensity (Cubic Meters per Tonne)5001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
20406080100120140160180200
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
*The water risk analysis includes only FMC owned sites, not active ingredient  
  contract manufacturing.FMC measures and reports our environmental footprint on 
an intensity basis (X metric units of energy, GHG emissions, 
waste disposed, or water use at high-risk locations 
per tonne of product). In 2017, we achieved significant 
reductions in energy and GHG emission intensities – by 
14 percent and 21 percent respectively – due to efficiency 
improvements and changes to cleaner burning fuels. We 
reduced waste disposed intensity by 16 percent through 
process efficiencies and phasing out highly waste intensive 
products in Agricultural Solutions. Despite significant 
progress toward achieving our waste reduction target over 
the baseline, we experienced increases in absolute waste 
disposed and waste disposed intensities in Agricultural 
Solutions and Lithium in 2017. This is due in part to 
changes in waste disposal processes at the site level. 
FMC’s largest business, Agricultural Solutions, produces 
75 percent of the company’s product volume. Because 
of this, improvements in water intensity are often 
‘masked’ by variations in Agricultural Solutions product 
volume. Therefore, for transparency we also report our 
environmental performance metrics by individual business 
showing progress and results toward achieving our goals.
FOR ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AND DETAILS 
ABOUT 2017 PROJECTS WHICH POSITIVELY IMPACTED 
THESE METRICS, VISIT FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM .2017  | ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS
FMC CORPORATION 
METRIC2025 TARGET
(VS. 2013 BASELINE)2017 PERFORMANCE 
(VS. 2013 BASELINE)
Energy intensity -15% -14%
GHG emissions intensity -15% -21%
Waste disposed intensity -15% -16%
Water use intensity  
at high risk locations-20% +15%
Notes:
1. On November 1, 2017 FMC divested its Health and Nutrition (H&N) business. However, H&N significantly contributed to FMC’s overall environmental 
impact for the majority of 2017. Therefore, its data through the third quarter has been included in the assurance process and provided here for 
completeness. As a discontinued operation, the business-level intensity is not included nor will its data be included in future reports.
2. The newly acquired manufacturing sites environmental data has not been included in this 2017 Sustainability Report. It will be included in future reports.
3. The 2017 independent assurance does not include: Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing totals. POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 28AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
FMC-owned Agricultural Solutions product manufacturing 
sites synthesize active ingredients (AIs) and perform the 
final steps of product formulation, mixing and packaging. 
Additionally, FMC sources AIs for FMC-owned formulation 
sites globally through contract manufacturers. The synthesis 
of these complex chemicals has a material environmental 
footprint compared to FMC-owned formulation and packaging 
operations, so we work with our contract manufacturers to 
monitor and reduce these impacts.
As growers’ needs change and pest pressures increase, we 
adjust our AI product mix to address these challenges for our 
customers. In some cases, this adjustment results in producing 
AIs that are more resource intensive. We are committed to 
minimizing our impacts at FMC-owned manufacturing sites and 
collaborating with our contract manufacturers to measure and 
reduce their impacts.
FMC-OWNED AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS 
MANUFACTURING SITES *
1. Energy – Our manufacturing sites have invested in energy 
efficient equipment improvements and thereby reduced 
absolute energy use by 18 percent and reduced energy 
intensity by 13 percent since the 2013 baseline.
2. GHG  – These energy efficiency improvements reduced 
absolute GHG emissions by 9 percent and reduced GHG 
intensity by 4 percent compared to the 2013 baseline.
3. Waste  – We have prioritized waste reduction over several 
years because these sites produce a significant volume 
of waste. Since 2013, we have reduced absolute waste-to-
landfill by 25 percent and reduced waste intensity by 20 
percent. This achievement is a result of improving operational 
efficiencies and repurposing waste streams into value-added 
materials for other industries.4. Water  – Through water reuse and recycling projects we have 
reduced absolute water use by 27 percent at high-risk locations 
and reduced water risk intensity by 21 percent since 2013.
AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS ACTIVE INGREDIENT 
CONTRACT MANUFACTURING SITES
1. Energy  – Since 2013, our contract manufacturing partners 
have reduced energy intensity by 5 percent.
2. GHG  – The majority of GHG emissions from our contract 
manufacturers are related to energy use, therefore in 
conjunction with the energy intensity reduction they have 
reduced their GHG emission intensity by 12 percent.
3. Waste  – Since the 2013 baseline, Agricultural Solutions 
contract manufacturing has reduced its waste disposal 
intensity by 24 percent. 
4. Water  – The water risk analysis does not include contract 
manufacturers, so we do not report on their water use at 
high-risk locations at this time.
LITHIUM
FMC Lithium has achieved significant reductions in energy, 
GHG, waste and high-risk water use. As this business has 
expanded and grown over the past several years, we focused on 
increasing production capacity while minimizing resource use.
1. Energy  – Through a strong focus on improving energy 
efficiency, our manufacturing sites increased production by 
21 percent while only increasing absolute energy use by two 
percent. This achievement means that we reduced Lithium 
energy intensity by 16 percent since the 2013 baseline year.
2. GHG  – The significant energy efficiency improvements 
combined with the completion of a natural gas pipeline to 
supply the Minera del Altiplano, Argentina site has resulted in 
the Lithium business reducing absolute GHG emissions by 2 
percent and reducing GHG intensity by 19 percent compared 
to the 2013 baseline.3. Waste  – We continue to focus on minimizing waste streams 
and finding opportunities to repurpose materials into usable 
by-products. In doing so, we reduced absolute waste disposal 
by 4 percent and reduced waste disposal intensity by 20 
percent to date.
4. Water  – FMC Lithium requires a high volume of water to 
extract lithium from salt flats in Argentina. As responsible 
stewards of these valuable water resources we have reduced 
water intensity by 13 percent since 2013. We are committed 
to further reducing our water use through improved process 
controls and treatment allowing for water reuse.
CONTINUED PROGRESS
Making progress on our goals requires each business to identify 
and implement projects to reduce its environmental footprint. 
In 2018, as we integrate our newly acquired sites and prepare 
the Lithium business for separation, we will reset FMC’s 2025 
environmental goals.
FMC, the FMC logo, RYNAXYPYR, CYAZYPYR, ETHOS, LFR, 3RIVE 3D, 
VGR, PRECISIONPAC, MOSQUITO PROMISE, TALSTAR, and SLMP are 
trademarks of FMC Corporation and/or an affiliate.
29 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   *Data from the newly acquired manufacturing sites is not included.INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO FMC CORPORATION
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC 
Corporation (FMC) to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2017 
environmental and safety data in the 2017 FMC Sustainability Report as set out below.
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Scope of our
assurance
engagementWhether the FMC Total and Business level 2017 data for the following environmental 
(absolute and intensity) and safety indicators presented on pages 6, 9, 10, and 28, and on 
FMC’s sustainability website (fmcsustainability.com/goals-data) are fairly presented in all 
material respects, with the reporting criteria:
• Direct and Indirect Energy Use [Terajoules and Gigajoules/Tonne of Production]
• Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions [K-tonnes CO2e and tonnes CO2e/Tonne of 
Production] from Direct and Indirect Energy Use
• Total Water Use [Million Cubic Meters and Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production]
• Total High Risk Water Use [Million Cubic Meters and Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production]
• Total Waste Generated and Total Waste Disposed per disposal type (landfill, fuel blending, 
and incineration with and without recovery) [K-tonnes and Kg/Tonne of Production]
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Reporting
criteriaThe WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (excluding 
refrigerants) and FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators.
Assurance
standardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance 
levelLimited assurance.
Respective
responsibilitiesFMC is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to 
third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the 
assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
OUR CONCLUSIONS
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2017 data for the 
specified indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the 
reporting criteria.
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
Our objective was to assess whether the 2017 data for the specified indicators are reported 
in accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organisation) and 
accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation). We 
planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe 
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities:
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems 
and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and 
reporting the data for the specified indicators;
• A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors;
• Visits to two sites (Panoli, India and Bromborough, UK) and one virtual site visit (MdA, Argentina) 
to review local reporting processes and consistency of reported annual data with selected 
underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data 
capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality 
and assurance processes;
• An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy 
of the corporate data consolidation;
• Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review 
procedures and the completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the 
specified indicators from the site data.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods 
for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. We did not assure the 
Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Total. On 1 November 2017, FMC divested its Health and 
Nutrition (H&N) business. H&N data has been assured through 30 September 2017. It is important 
to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers  
Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
28 March 2018
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  |  www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY 
RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND 
IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF 
INTEREST. ERM CVS AND THE ERM STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN THIS ENGAGEMENT WORK HAVE PROVIDED NO 
CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC IN ANY RESPECT.
Assurance Statement
POWERING PROGRESS GROWING RESULTS 3031 FMC 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pierre R. Brondeau  
Chief Executive Officer and 
Chairman of the Board  
FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro  
Senior Advisor  
Cabot Corporation
G. Peter D’Aloia  
Former Managing Director and 
Member of the Board of Directors  
Ascend Performance Materials 
Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer  
Principal  
Greer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson  
Former Chief Executive Officer, 
President and Executive Chair  
Elevance Renewable Sciences
Dirk A. Kempthorne  
President and Chief Executive 
Officer  
American Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris  
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive Officer  
W. R. Grace & Co.FMC OFFICERS
Diane Allemang  
Vice President,  
Chief Marketing Officer
Brian P. Angeli  
Vice President,  
Corporate Strategy  
and Development
Pierre R. Brondeau  
Chief Executive Officer  
and Chairman of the Board 
Bill Chester  
Vice President, Tax
Barry J. Crawford  
Vice President, Operations
Mark A. Douglas  
President and  
Chief Operating Officer
Kenneth A. Gedaka  
Vice President,  
Communications  
and Public Affairs
Paul Graves  
Chief Executive Officer,  
Lithium
Marc L. Hullebroeck  
President, FMC EMEA  
Vice President and Business 
Director, EMEAMargareth Øvrum  
Executive Vice President of 
Technology Projects & Drilling  
Statoil Group
Robert C. Pallash  
Retired President, Global 
Customer Group and  
Senior Vice President  
Visteon Corporation
William H. Powell  
Retired Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer  
National Starch and  
Chemical Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr.  
Chairman, CEO, President and 
Principal  
LeHavre Athletic ClubDavid A. Kotch  
Vice President,  
Chief Information Officer
Susanne Lingard  
Vice President,  
Regulatory Affairs
Kyle Matthews  
Vice President,  
Chief Human Resources Officer
Amy O’Shea  
Vice President and Business 
Director, North America
Ronaldo Pereira  
President, FMC Latin America  
Vice President and Business 
Director, Latin America
Nicholas L. Pfeiffer  
Vice President,  
Corporate Controller and  
Chief Accounting Officer
Michael F. Reilly  
Vice President, Associate  
General Counsel and  
Chief Compliance Officer
Andrew D. Sandifer  
Executive Vice President,  
Chief Financial OfficerTom Schneberger  
Chief Operating Officer,  
Lithium
Kathleen Shelton  
Vice President,  
Chief Technology Officer
Bethwyn Todd  
President, FMC Asia  
Vice President and  
Business Director, Asia
Karen M. Totland  
Vice President,  
Global Procurement,  
Global Facilities and Corporate 
Sustainability
Andrea E. Utecht  
Executive Vice President,  
General Counsel
Shawn Whitman  
Vice President,  
Government AffairsCOPYRIGHT © 2018, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.FMC Corporation
FMC Tower at Cira Centre South
2929 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19104
USA
www.FMC.com
This publication is printed on 100% recycled paper.