1
TOMORROW’S HARVEST
2019 Sustainability Report
TOMORROW’S
harvestFMC Corporation 
has never been 
content with 
status quo. 
Beginning with 
our first product 
that helped 
protect California 
orchards from 
scale in 1883, the 
company expanded 
and grew into a 
conglomerate 
serving hundreds of 
diversified markets throughout the 20th century. Today’s 
FMC is a pure-play agricultural sciences leader, but we 
retain the characteristics that have defined our success 
for nearly 140 years: a passion for technology, a desire to 
solve societal problems, and a commitment to always 
look to the future for new challenges and opportunities.
Today, society is facing monumental challenges due to 
COVID-19. The United Nations World Food Programme 
estimates COVID-19 will double the number of people 
suffering from food insecurity. At FMC, we recognize that 
we are a part of an essential community committed to 
supporting farmers in their critical role of providing food 
to help nourish people. Now more than ever, farmers need 
the right crop protection technologies to defend against 
destructive insects, invasive weeds and the threat of disease. 
This year’s Sustainability Report theme, Tomorrow’s 
Harvest , underscores our commitment to producing food, 
feed, fiber and fuel for an expanding world population through any challenge that comes our way. The past few 
months have served as a reminder that when addressing 
tomorrow’s challenges, the status quo is not an option.
NEW SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
From the start of our formal sustainability program in 
2010, we have been guided by sustainability targets, 
goals and commitments that reflected our company’s 
broad portfolio of businesses. In late 2019, we reset our 
sustainability goals to more closely align with FMC’s 
agriculture-focused business model. 
The goals are grouped into three categories. First is 
Innovation , focusing on our R&D investments to develop 
sustainably-advantaged products. The second is Business 
Practices , measuring the company’s total recordable injury 
rate, as well as our community engagement index. Finally, 
the third is Environmental Footprint , addressing energy 
intensity, greenhouse gas emissions intensity, water use 
intensity and waste disposed intensity. In addition, FMC 
continues to target two United Nations Sustainability 
Development Goals (SDGs) as part of our overall strategy: 
Goal 2: Zero Hunger and Goal 15: Life on Land.
PLANT HEALTH
This report includes many examples and stories about 
how FMC is driving sustainability throughout the 
company. However, we are especially eager for you to 
learn more about FMC Plant Health, an exciting business 
that has grown significantly in the last several years. 
Today, we are investing in new biological products derived 
from microorganisms and other naturally occurring 
materials. Featuring new modes of action and excellent 
sustainability characteristics, these unique products help 
crops overcome difficult growing conditions, fight disease 
and assist in regulating a plant’s uptake of nutrients and 
use of limited water. FMC has several biological products 
on the market that are performing extremely well, and a robust pipeline of new biological 
active ingredients in discovery 
and development at our European 
Innovation Center in Denmark. 
OUR CORE VALUES
In early 2019, FMC introduced a refreshed 
set of core values that not only reflect FMC’s 
unique culture, but also represent the behaviors 
that define our company today. These six values—
Integrity, Safety, Sustainability, Respect for People, Agility, 
and Customer Centricity—are expressed in sustainability 
stories throughout this report. 
One area of significant progress has been Diversity and 
Inclusion, which is part of our Respect for People value. 
Recent highlights included new domestic partner and 
transgender inclusion benefits, the first global Inclusion 
Month, new Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) with more 
than 20 ERGs and Inclusion Councils across the company 
and Inclusive Leadership training. These and many other 
progressive initiatives helped FMC receive a perfect score 
on the 2020 Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 
Corporate Equality Index.
We hope you enjoy learning about FMC’s continued 
commitment to sustainability, our investments in 
novel crop protection technologies, and our continuing 
support of Tomorrow’s Harvest . A MESSAGE
from Mark Douglas, President and Chief Executive 
Officer and Pierre Brondeau, Executive Chairman
Left to right: Madeleine Douglas, Mark Douglas 
(FMC President and CEO) , Melissa Brondeau 
and Pierre Brondeau (FMC Executive Chairman)
Pierre R. Brondeau
Executive Chairman
FMC CORPORATIONMark Douglas
President and  
Chief Executive Officer
FMC CORPORATION3
TOMORROW’S HARVEST
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 ▶Global Specialty Solutions 
 ▶Product Stewardship  
 ▶Highly Hazardous Pesticides 
Our Progress   32
 ▶Community Engagement
 ▶2019 Environmental Results
 ▶Remediation and Beneficial Reuse 
of our Legacy Sites
Assurance Statement   38
Board of Directors, Chairman’s Committee 
and FMC Officers   39
UN Global Compact  
Communication on Progress   40Organizational Profile   02
FMC Core Values   03
New Sustainability Goals   04
2019 Progress Report  
and 2020 Commitments  06
Stakeholder Engagement   07
Topics in Focus  08
 ▶What’s in a Pesticide Label? 
 ▶Understanding the Differences 
Between Organic and  
Conventional Farming 
Our People   12
 ▶Safety Goals, Programs and Awards
 ▶Ethics and Compliance 
 ▶Talent Management 
 ▶Diversity and Inclusion
Our Products   24
 ▶Science to Grow
 ▶Plant Health 
 ▶Precision Agriculture
 ▶Product Highlight –  
Xyway™ 3D fungicideEXPLORE FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM 
We invite you to explore our website for more 
information and data. The online data center lets you 
visualize and interact with our data. You can explore 
the Resources section to access FMC reports and 
videos related to our sustainability programs as well 
as FMC policies and statements on several important 
topics including climate change, SDGs, human rights, 
supplier code of conduct and animal welfare.About this Report
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI)
This report and our web-based content at  
www.FMCsustainability.com  have been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. A 
detailed GRI Content Index can be found on the website.
UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT
FMC became a signatory to the UN Global Compact 
(UNGC) in 2014. This report represents our fifth 
Communications on Progress in support of the UNGC 
principles. A summary of our Communication on Progress 
can be found on our website.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE OF  
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
FMC engaged ERM Certification and Verification Services 
to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2019 
environmental and safety data. Further details about our 
external assurance can be found on Page 38  of the report.
MATERIALITY 
The information and topics covered in this report 
were guided by an internal and external stakeholder 
materiality assessment that was conducted in 2018. 
This assessment was accomplished through a series 
of interviews, meetings and surveys with stakeholders. 
Further details on this assessment and the materiality 
matrix can be found on our website.2
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
FMC REPORTING AND  
CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES 
The environmental and safety data in this report include 
all sites under FMC’s operational control in the 2019 
calendar year as well as environmental data supplied  
by active ingredient contract manufacturers (except 
where noted). Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions are reported in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
Revenue by Region (USD)  
2019 FY2019 Financial Performance Summary (USD)
For the year ending December 31, 2019, FMC Corporation recorded the following results:
24%
22%23%
31%North 
America
Europe,  
Middle East + AfricaAsia
Latin America$4,609.8
million
*Represents a non-GAAP financial term. Refer to our website for definitions and 
reconciliations of non-GAAP terms to the most directly comparable GAAP term.$4.64.6
16.316.3 %**$1.21.2**$6.096.09**
ANNUAL SALES  
(billions)
RETURN ON  
INVESTED CAPITALADJUSTED EBITDA  
(billions)ADJUSTED EARNINGS  
Per Share
$3.623.62
GAAP DILUTED 
EARNINGS  
Per Share$480.2480.2
GAAP NET INCOME  
(millions)FMC Corporation, an agricultural sciences company, provides innovative solutions to growers around 
the world with a robust product portfolio fueled by a market-driven discovery and development 
pipeline in crop protection, plant health and professional pest and turf management.
Cotton  
Gossypium hirsutum3
TOMORROW’S HARVEST*Inclusive of regular and provisional employees 
FMC CORE VALUES
In early 2019, we introduced a refreshed set of core values that not only articulate FMC’s unique culture, but also reflect 
the behaviors that define our company today. These six core values define who we are and how we do business. 
Collectively, these values guide us as individuals and as a team of 6,400* people around the world. It’s what sets FMC 
apart and is the key to our long-term growth and sustainability as a company. 
We do things the right way – ethically and 
in compliance with laws – regardless  of 
circumstances
We keep our commitments, building trust with 
customers, shareholders, the community and  
each other
We take responsibility for our actions, 
regardless of the outcome
We are action-oriented, delivering results 
without sacrificing safety or quality
We pursue continuous innovation not only in our 
products and processes, but in the experiences 
we deliver
We are collaborative, fast and nimbleWe empower informed risk-taking, celebrating 
successes and learning from mistakes
We develop the knowledge and abilities of our 
people to best serve their careers and  
our customers
We create an inclusive environment where 
diverse views, backgrounds and experiences are 
key to our successEvery action we take is guided by our  
TH!NK. SAFE. Manifesto
We empower employees to always put  
safety first
We help others to be safe – at work, at home and 
on the road
We cultivate long-term customer relationships 
and put their needs at the center of everything 
we do
We understand our customers’ business, 
and provide solutions to their most pressing 
challenges
We measure our success in terms of our 
customers’ successWe create innovative solutions while preserving 
the environment for tomorrow
We make a positive impact on the communities 
where we live and work
We steward the responsible use of our productsIntegrity
AgilityRespect for PeopleSafety
Customer-CentricitySustainability
Living Sustainability as a  
Core Value Across FMC
The strong values of the company, including 
its ambitions within sustainability was a very 
important reason for joining FMC. When I 
did my research about the company, I saw 
that many of FMC’s values aligned with my 
own. I felt in this company, we can make a 
difference in society. That meant a lot to me.”“
Eva Louise Holm Østergaard,   
Communications Manager - EMEA, FMC Corporation
Hørsholm, Denmark
Sustainability has been the nucleus of 
our strategy. Our slogan “Every green leaf 
matters to us” is associated with winning 
farmer trust, which is our biggest asset 
in Pakistan. Sales and marketing teams 
generate new ideas around this core value.”“
Raheel Nasir,  
Asia Pacific Commercial Excellence Manager,  FMC Corporation 
Lahore, Pakistan
Sustainability outside of work didn’t 
mean a whole lot prior to getting more 
involved in it with the company. I didn’t 
pay attention to my energy consumption 
at home. I didn’t look at it, didn’t think 
about it, didn’t worry about it. Now, all 
those things are on my radar. I began 
replacing lights and fixtures, updated my door and 
window insulation, began maintaining control of the 
temperature in my home, added spray foam in my 
attic and started looking at the bigger picture.”“
Brad West,  
EHS Manager,  FMC Corporation 
Mobile, Alabama, United States INNOVATION
Innovation is in 
our DNA. With 
strong capabilities 
in our R&D 
organization, we 
create innovative 
solutions to 
address food security, one of the largest global challenges, 
without compromising the environment. We commit 
to creating products that are consistently better for the 
planet than any that currently exists in the market. FMC 
utilizes the Sustainability Assessment Tool to determine 
if new active ingredients and formulated products in 
our R&D pipeline are sustainably-advantaged. This 
assessment, along with other stewardship processes 
and tools, ensures the introduction and continued use of 
environmentally sustainable agricultural solutions. The 
R&D spend used in the metric is inclusive of all variable 
and fixed costs related to the discovery and development 
process across all regions. It does not include spend 
associated with the defense of existing products.COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
We are committed to enriching the communities where we work and live. 
If surrounding communities thrive, so do we. To monitor this, each FMC-
owned manufacturing site and select R&D sites report on their community 
activities quarterly. If a site completes an activity in each of FMC’s 
Community Engagement categories (Safety, Operational Transparency, 
Community Partnership, Community Leadership), it earns a score of 100 
on the Community Engagement Index.
4 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe have a commitment to deliver products that maintain 
a safe and secure food supply and to do so with minimal FMC’S NEW 2025/2030  
SUSTAINABILITY  
GOALS
SAFETY
At FMC, people come first. We strive for an injury-free workplace, where 
every employee returns home the same way they arrived. We encourage 
a culture of open reporting, so we can learn from our mistakes and work 
towards continuous improvement in behaviors and processes. A TRIR of 
less than 0.1 is industry leading performance.
on the Community  
Engagement Index100100GOAL BY 2025
Total Recordable  
Incident Rate (TRIR)<0.10.1GOAL BY 2025
 100100 %
R&D Spend on Developing  
Sustainable ProductsGOAL BY 2025impact on the planet. To reflect this commitment, we have 
reset our sustainability goals to challenge ourselves and 
ensure that we are helping to create a better world. 
We are at a pivotal moment in history where the effects 
of climate change are threatening to disrupt global food 
production due to unpredictable weather patterns, rising 
sea levels and increasing global mean temperatures. 
These effects, if left unchecked, will have a long-term impact on our business, including unexpected disruptions 
in our supply chain, rapidly changing pest profiles and 
changes in geographies where crops can be grown.
As we move forward with these new goals, we would 
like to note that FMC made excellent progress on the 
sustainability goals we initially set in 2015: we exceeded 
our innovation, safety, energy, waste and water targets. 
BUSINESS PRACTICES5 TOMORROW’S HARVESTENVIRONMENTAL  
FOOTPRINT 
Due to the changes to our business 
over the past few years, we have 
decided to reset our baseline year to 
2018 (from 2013) and set aggressive 
environmental goals to reflect the new FMC. 
To determine these new goals, we developed a 
mathematical model that used base-year sustainability 
data and extrapolated our yearly environmental footprint to 2030 based on anticipated future production 
volumes. Collaborating with our operations team, we 
then incorporated various scenarios and sustainability 
project commitments into the model to develop our final 
environmental goals. If our goals are met early, we will 
refine and reset them to ensure that we are continuously 
improving our environmental profile. 
More information on our environmental metrics and 
progress is available on page 3 5.UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
We will continue to focus on Goal 2: 
Zero Hunger  and Goal 15: Life on Land  
through our new sustainability goals  
and overall business strategy.
For more information on our  
progress on the SDGs, please visit  
www.FMCsustainability.com .20182018
BASELINENEW
Energy intensity is calculated as 
the total amount of energy utilized 
(gigajoule) per metric tonne of product.
2525%
Energy Intensity
GHG intensity is calculated as the total 
amount of GHGs (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 
per metric tonne of product.
GHG Emissions  
Intensity2525%
Water-use intensity is calculated as the 
total amount of water utilized (cubic 
meter) in high-risk locations per metric 
tonne of product.
Water-Use Intensity  
in High-Risk Locations2020%
Waste disposed intensity is calculated 
as the total amount of waste disposed 
(metric tonne) per metric tonne of 
product. Due to anticipated shifts in 
FMC’s product mix and expected growth 
through 2030, waste disposed intensity 
is expected to increase by 55 percent. 
Therefore, we will need to decrease our 
waste disposed intensity by 55 percent 
to maintain the 2018 base year intensity.
Waste Disposed IntensitySustainSustain   
BASE YEARGOALS BY 20306
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUpdate innovation, business practice and operations goals and targets for FMC.
Identify opportunities to improve our sustainability reporting in line with CDP 
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and other reporting frameworks.
Conduct initial Scope 3 GHG emissions assessment.
Continue utilizing the External Sustainability Advisory Council to help shape 
FMC’s global sustainability strategy.
Continue to measure our global logistics footprint to better understand and 
reduce our impacts and risks.
Conduct an extensive shareholder outreach project to better understand how 
they assess FMC through an ESG lens.
Develop and introduce the sustainability brand to engage both internal and 
external stakeholders.
Start utilizing Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) chemical 
standard and the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
frameworks for sustainability disclosures.
Summarize baseline Scope 3 GHG emissions for 2019 and externally report the 
information; determine where there are opportunities to refine the data and 
reduce the impact.
completed
 in progress
 not started yet
PROGRESS REPORT ON OUR 2019 COMMITMENTS 
2020 COMMITMENTS Support Diversity and Inclusion efforts both internally (through Employee Resource 
Groups) and externally (through corporate affiliate groups and academia).
Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy dependency by exploring options for 
renewable energy sourcing.
Incorporate sustainability matrices in the Capital Deployment Plan.
Conduct Life Cycle Assessments for newly acquired active ingredients 
(Rynaxypyr® active ingredient, Cyazypyr® active ingredient and indoxacarb).
Develop life cycle assessments for Rynaxypyr®  
and Cyazypyr® active ingredients.
Incorporate Sustainability in Capital Deployment Plan.
Measure our global logistics footprint to better 
understand and reduce our impacts and risks.
Develop a renewable energy strategy.
Gain further understanding of our suppliers’  
sustainability programs.
Conduct biennial Materiality Assessment.Corn  
Zea mays
7
TOMORROW’S HARVEST
Stakeholder engagement continues to be essential as 
FMC has evolved into a pure-play agricultural sciences 
company. We engage with our stakeholder groups on 
a regular basis to work through initiatives and issues 
important to the company and wider community. 
Please refer to our Stakeholder Engagement Table on 
our website ( www.FMCsustainability.com ) which shows 
our major stakeholder groups, channels of engagement 
and key topics that we covered in 2019. Below are some 
specific examples of our engagement outcomes. 
EMPLOYEES
We engaged several employee focus groups representing 
all functions and commercial regions to seek their input 
on developing a sustainability brand for FMC. Employees 
were asked about what sustainability means to them and 
how FMC could further its sustainability commitments. 
Their ideas were synthesized to develop FMC’s 
sustainability brand which will help engage all employees 
across the organization on sustainability. The new brand 
will be launched in 2020.
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS ( NGOs )
FMC has been working with the Pesticide Action 
Network (PAN) Europe in Brussels, Belgium, and PAN 
UK in Brighton, UK, to provide them with information on 
FMC’s diamide insecticides Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® 
active ingredients and formulated products. In 2016 and 
2017, Dr. Axel Dinter, Global 
Regulatory Ecotoxicologist 
and hobby beekeeper, met 
with bee experts from PAN 
to discuss the favorable bee 
safety profile of our diamide products and how they are differentiated from other 
classes of insecticides. In 2019, Dr. Dinter also worked with 
PAN on their press release regarding the mode of action 
and bee profile of our diamide products. Moving forward, 
we hope to continue our collaboration with PAN and other 
NGOs to understand and address any potential concerns 
they may have and also to keep them informed about FMC’s 
efforts toward delivering sustainable agricultural solutions.
INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS
FMC is a 
member 
of CropLife 
International 
(CLI), a global trade association of agrochemical 
companies representing the plant science industry. 
On the industry’s behalf, they address international 
developments in crop protection and agricultural 
biotechnology and promote approaches that enhance 
sustainable agriculture in the interests of agricultural 
producers, consumers and the environment. 
Representatives from FMC serve on CLI’s Board of 
Directors, Strategy Councils and steering committees (e.g., 
Communications, Stewardship, Regulatory, Multilateral 
Affairs, Operations) alongside representatives from other 
member companies. Through CropLife, we focus on 
addressing issues such as biodiversity, food security and 
climate change. For a list of FMC’s key industry association 
memberships, log on to www.FMCsustainability.com .
EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY COUNCIL
FMC’s External Sustainability Advisory Council, initiated 
in November 2017, provides perspectives and objectivity 
to our sustainability strategy.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In November 
2019, FMC 
welcomed 
Trey Hill, CEO 
of Harborview 
Farms, to the 
External Sustainability Advisory Council. Trey 
brings with him his experience as a fourth-
generation grain farmer from Maryland. He 
has been committed to improving agriculture 
sustainability and carbon smart farming 
practices. He is leading the way in responsible 
agriculture and bridging the gap between 
environmentalists and agriculturalists. 
Dr. Axel Dinter,  
Global Regulatory Ecotoxicologist and hobby beekeeper Members of the Council are leaders in agriculture, energy, 
water, academia and environmental issues. They have 
broadened our thinking in many areas. Their feedback is 
vital as FMC continues to evolve and grow.
INVESTORS 
Early in 2020 we engaged with many of our 
stockholders to discuss environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) topics. We held 23 calls (representing 
approximately 45 percent of our shares outstanding) 
and received positive feedback on our sustainability 
goals, website, report and outreach efforts on ESG. 
We discussed the Sustainability Assessment tool as 
well as our material topics. Additional feedback from 
the stockholders was to utilize the SASB and TCFD 
frameworks, particularly for ESG, in addition to the GRI 
framework. (Note that we will be including SASB and 
TCFD disclosures on our website).8
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTOPICS IN FOCUS
What’s in a Pesticide Label?
 ▶INGREDIENTS STATEMENT  
The name and percentage by weight of each 
active ingredient and the total percentage by 
weight of all other inert ingredients must be on 
the front panel of the label. 
 ▶PRECAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  
Precautionary statements provide the pesticide 
user with information about toxicity, irritation 
potential, and dermal sensitization hazards 
associated with the use of the pesticide, in 
addition to medical treatment instructions and 
information to reduce exposure potential.  ▶ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS  
The environmental hazards statement provides 
the precautionary language informing users of 
the potential hazards to the environment from 
transport, use, storage or spill of the product. These 
hazards may be to water, soil, air, beneficial insects, 
plants and/or wildlife. Generally, the information 
contained in this section is based upon the results 
of several environmental toxicology studies on 
organisms such as birds, fish, water fleas and bees. 
In addition, data about a product’s potential to  
be transported to groundwater, surface water,  
or aquatic sediment; to drift; or to adversely affect 
non-target plants and bees also provide  
important information. ▶DIRECTIONS FOR USE  
For the grower, this is the most practical part of the 
label, beyond following regulatory restrictions. This 
can include information about: 
• Where the product can be used 
• What crops the product can be used on
• The types of pest(s) it controls
• Application methods
• How much product can be applied and at  
what frequency
• Maximum application rates
• Restrictions on use such as weather, time of  
day, season, etc. 
There can also be additional information in the 
“Directions For Use” section provided by the 
manufacturer. Below are some examples.
Integrated Pest Management  
The integration of all forms of pest control methods 
including agricultural chemicals, biological (natural 
enemies), cultural (sanitation, rotation) and genetic 
(varietal selection) into a pest management 
program that includes pest monitoring and the use 
of action treatment thresholds.
Resistance Management  
Pesticide resistance occurs when a given pesticide 
is overused for the control of the same pest, 
resulting in selection of resistant individuals in a 
pest population. If products with the same mode 
of action, are applied repeatedly during the season 
without proper rotation to products with a different 
mode of action, then resistance can occur. Specific 
guidance on resistance management strategies are 
included in this section.1
234
Pesticides are among the most tested and regulated products in the world. All  
pesticides must be registered in the country of use and meet the specific regulations 
of local government agencies. The ultimate document accompanying each pesticide 
product is the label, which communicates information on the approved use(s) of a 
product from the registrant (i.e., the company that registers a product) to the end 
user. Government approval of the label assures that the pesticide has been thoroughly 
evaluated and meets all safety standards regarding potential risks to human health  
and the environment when the product is applied according to the label.
The label is designed specifically for each product and is based on extensive testing  
of field efficacy, product chemistry, toxicology, environmental fate, ecological effects 
and residue chemistry. The following are some of the important highlights of a product 
label based on the requirements established by the United States Environmental 
Protection Agency (U.S. EPA).
9
TOMORROW’S HARVESTExcerpts of FMC’s Coragen® insect control U.S. label directions for use on strawberries. The product 
label includes general use information and specific information for all approved crops. 
Excerpts of FMC’s Coragen® insect control U.S. label 
Source: Label Review Manual, Authored by the Office of Pesticide Programs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
Product Application Timing, Spray Intervals,  
and Adjuvant Use  
Directions are included on when to apply the 
product based on pest population or damage 
levels (referred to as action thresholds), minimum 
intervals between sprays, minimum spray 
volumes, and use of tank mix partners and/or 
adjuvants. Additional information that guides 
growers on application timing based on the appropriate pest stage, pest population level and 
crop stage are important to the grower to best 
take advantage of the pesticidal characteristics to 
maximize pest control. 
Spray Drift Management  
Very detailed guidance on understanding the 
effects of weather factors, particularly wind speed, 
on ground and aerial applied pesticide products is key to managing potential spray drift. It is important 
to follow spray system standard configurations 
and practices to optimize spray droplet size and to 
mitigate impact on non-target organisms.
1
23
4Strawberry  
Fragaria x ananassa10
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWHAT EXACTLY IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 
ORGANIC AND CONVENTIONAL FARMING? 
According to the Food and Agricultural Organization 
of the United Nations (FAO), organic farming refers to 
a system that relies on ecosystem management rather 
than external agricultural inputs. According to the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture (USDA), ‘organic producers 
rely on natural substances and physical, mechanical, 
or biologically based farming methods to the fullest 
extent possible’. Organic farming definitions can 
differ from country to country but generally prohibit substances such as synthetic pesticides, fertilizers and 
genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Conventional 
farming, on the other hand, covers farming practices 
that utilize synthetic pesticides along with Integrated 
Pest Management (IPM) strategies such as biological 
products, crop rotation, cover cropping and no-till.  
These IPM strategies are used in organic farming, too. 
WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN 
ORGANIC AND SYNTHETIC PESTICIDES?
Organic pesticides are those that are derived from 
natural sources and may be processed slightly, if at all, 
before use. Synthetic pesticides, used in conventional 
farming, are generally made by scientists in a laboratory 
and then commercially in a manufacturing plant. They 
are among the most highly regulated products in the 
world and are tested extensively to ensure their safety for 
people, the environment and wildlife. 
ARE ORGANIC PESTICIDES SAFER TO USE?
It has been assumed for years that pesticides that occur 
naturally (in plants, for example) are better for us and 
the environment than those that have been created 
by people. As more research is done into their toxicity, 
however, this is not necessarily true. Just because 
something is natural does not make it non-toxic or safe. 
Many natural pesticides produce poisons, toxins and chemicals and have been found to have potential health 
risks associated with them. The safety of a pesticide 
should not be determined by how natural it is, but 
rather by how it performs in human and environmental 
toxicity studies. 
As someone who has worked in the 
Crop Protection industry for over 40 
years, I have heard a lot of debate over 
the pros and cons of conventional and 
organic farming. These two approaches 
to farming have been in the public sphere 
and evolved to become two distinct 
methodologies that to some, have 
become mutually exclusive. However, like 
many important things in the world, the 
reality is somewhat different.”“TOPICS IN FOCUS
Understanding the Differences Between  
Organic and Conventional Farming
with Linda Froelich, Director of Global Sustainability, FMC Corporation
Linda Froelich and her grandson, Luca are very involved in the 
community including science learning. Linda is a scientist by 
training, and leads global sustainability initiatives at FMC. 11
TOMORROW’S HARVESTIS ORGANIC FARMING MORE SUSTAINABLE 
THAN CONVENTIONAL FARMING?
This is a difficult question because the answer is not 
clear. On one hand, some studies suggest that organic 
farms protect biodiversity more than their conventional 
counterparts.1 However, other studies have shown that 
conventional farming has a smaller environmental 
footprint due to increased crop yield and conservation 
tillage. Crop yields from organic farms are generally 
between 20 percent to 50 percent of what the same 
size conventional farm yields.2 Currently, switching to 
purely organic farming could result in wide expansion 
of agricultural land and the potential destruction 
of untouched habitats. This could, in turn, threaten 
endangered species and decrease biodiversity. 
CAN WE FEED THE WORLD’S POPULATION USING 
ONLY ORGANICALLY GROWN FOOD TODAY? 
No, not today due to lower crop yields and the resulting 
high cost of organically grown food to consumers. That’s 
not to say that this may not change in the future. Better 
technology could overcome the production gap, allowing 
organic methods to produce on par with conventional 
farming. If that occurs, then organic farming may 
become more productive and economically feasible. 
FMC is exploring and developing biologicals that might 
help all types of farming (for more information on FMC’s 
biological products, see page 26 ).
DO WE HAVE TO CHOOSE ONE METHOD OF 
FARMING OVER THE OTHER?
Not necessarily – it depends on technology and what we 
discover and learn in the future. Until organic farming 
can produce crops yields on par with conventional 
methods, we need conventional farming to ensure global 
food security. An ideal future will merge conventional 
and organic methods, using new technologies to target pesticide use while increasing the bioavailability of 
soils, crop yields, nutritional quality and biodiversity in 
agricultural lands. New technologies are our strongest 
allies. We do not have to choose sides but can appreciate 
the upsides of rotating products and crops, and how new 
technologies will improve output and nutrition. We must 
learn from each other and work together to improve 
our global food resources and ensure sustainable 
agriculture is part of our future.
1 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
2 Savage, Steven. “USDA Data Confirm Organic Yields Significantly Lower 
than with Conventional Farming.” Genetic Literacy Project, Feb. 2018our 
PEOPLE
“We are trying to feed the world and help growers do their 
job. Coming from a developing country, I understand  
the complexities surrounding food security and want to  
make sure that growers can continue to feed people with  
limited resources and mitigate losses from diseases. The  
global population is increasing, and we want to be able  
to sustainably farm the limited farmland that we have.”
– Henry Ngugi , Global Technical Product Manager-Fungicides, FMC Corporation
                  Read Henry’s full interview on www.FMCsustainability.com/voices
Henry Ngugi, with Novi Budiyanty, FMC 
R&D Manager  (L) and Abdul Hery Suryanto, 
Crop Protection Product Distributor (R)
PROCESS LEVEL SYSTEMS LEVEL
PROCESS SAFETY INFORMATION (PSI) 
This contains details about materials, 
equipment and process technology. This 
information is used to support all other 
elements of PSM and is necessary to 
understand, identify and evaluate our 
process safety hazards.
In 2019 we reviewed our PSI for several 
processes in preparation for cyclical 
Process Hazard Analysis (PHA). Significant 
technical areas for this review included: 
reactive chemistry data, emergency relief 
systems calculations and other safety 
systems design basics. This affected more 
than 20 different processes at 10 sites.PROCESS HAZARD LEVEL (PHL) 
SCREENING 
This screening tool uses an internally 
developed methodology to identify  
the hazards of a process and ensure  
both effective and efficient control of  
process hazards.
In 2019 we revised our hazard level screening 
procedure to include learnings from our 
use of the tool to help better identify 
our high hazard processes. The updated 
methodology improves classification and 
prioritization of Process Safety initiatives and 
implementation of our PSM Standard.PSM STANDARD 
This standard sets the minimum 
process safety system requirements for 
manufacturing sites, pilot plants and kilo 
labs to prevent fires, explosions and releases 
of hazardous materials.
In 2019 we revised our Process Safety 
Management Standard to incorporate 
better, more stringent requirements in three 
key areas: risk identification and mitigation 
management, pre-start up safety reviews 
and processes handling combustible dust.PROCESS HAZARD ANALYSIS (PHA) 
This is a systemic review of a specific process 
to identify and evaluate process hazards. 
As a result of these PHAs, we immediately 
address unacceptable risks and develop 
mitigation action plans. 
In 2019 we conducted PHAs for several 
high-hazard processes in accordance with 
our 5-year cycle. Action items to address the 
highest risks have been identified and  
are underway. 
13 TOMORROW’S HARVEST2019 SAFETY PERFORMANCE Safety
Safety is a core value for FMC. Our Total Recordable 
Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2019 was 0.13. From June 2019 
through October 2019, the company had zero injuries, 
the longest stretch in FMC history. Since 2012, we 
have made significant improvements in our safety 
performance. As a result of our firm commitment to 
safety, our TRIR is among the lowest in the industry 
globally and in the upper decile of peer companies 
in North America1. We continue to be proud of the 
commitment each and every employee makes every day 
to work in a safe environment.0.63
0.410.51 0.51
0.220.18
0.110.13
2018 2017 2016 2015 2013 2012 2014 2019TRIR
PROCESS SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Process Safety Management (PSM) is a key component of our safety core value. We are continuously developing and enforcing robust systems and procedures for our employees across 
all global sites. Below are the highlights of the activities conducted in 2019 across the organization.
2025 Goal:  
<0.1 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
1 American Chemistry CouncilOnion  
Allium cepaFMC SAFETY PROGRAMS IN 2019
FMC’S STOP.THINK.ACT CAMPAIGN
FMC launched the Stop-Think-Act Campaign in 2019. A 
key objective of this campaign was to educate employees 
on the psychology of decision making and how it affects 
our personal safety.
The campaign also focused on video storytelling 
from employees on personal safety experiences. We 
then encouraged employees to identify people who 
motivated them to Stop-Think-Act when it came to 
safety. To bring the campaign to a close, employees 
were asked to share experiences where they used Stop-
Think-Act to help them correct a behavior or action that could have led to an unsafe moment or even an 
injury – we called these “Stop-Think-Act Moments of 
Proof”. Over 200 employees submitted photos of their 
motivators and/or provided short write-ups on their 
moments of proof.VEHICLE SAFETY PROGRAM
Annually, road traffic accidents cause an estimated 1.25 
million deaths around the world. In response to this,  
we developed the regionally led Vehicle and Motorcycle 
Safety Program. The aim of this program is to achieve 
zero road fatalities and injuries on and off the job for FMC 
employees and contractors. Activities under the program 
include: strengthening vehicular use policies across 
the region, conducting communication campaigns to 
engage employees about vehicular safety and organizing 
defensive driving training to influence driving behavior. 
In the Asia Pacific program, over 2,000 employees have 
been trained on defensive driving techniques to date. 
Do you know you have both a fast brain 
and a slow brain? 
Our brains work in incredible ways. They have evolved 
to handle everything from simple, routine activities to 
complex calculations.
But since more complex work requires more 
brainpower, our brains like to operate with what’s  
called our FAST BRAIN. Our Fast Brain System is always 
on and makes decisions based on past experiences  
In 2019, the FMC China 
team launched the “Safety in 
Mind to Achieve Your Safety 
Journey” program. The 
training included behind-
the-wheel instruction and 
workshop sessions to build 
a culture of driving safety 
among field employees.STOP.THINK.ACT. Motivator
Jennifer Hirsch , 
Deployment Lead, 
Business Process 
Modernization from 
Philadelphia, U.S., said 
her children Abby, 
Hannah and Elizabeth 
are her Stop. Think. 
Act. Motivators. She 
shares, “my children 
are counting on me 
to make good choices 
throughout the day, 
safety and otherwise, so that I can return home to 
them each night. It’s important to be a good role 
model for them, and part of that means making the 
safe choice even when ‘no one is watching.”
and information. It does not consider new information 
or risks.
Our SLOW BRAIN System is normally turned off during 
routine activities to save energy. It will turn on when 
doing something new or difficult. We can also choose to 
turn it on any time we need to approach an activity with 
logical decision making.
To stay safe, make the choice to turn on your SLOW 
BRAIN. How do you do that? One way is to remember 
to STOP and THINK before ACTing. 
14 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT15
TOMORROW’S HARVESTSAFETY MOMENT WEEK (SMW) 2019
Safety Moment Week (SMW) is a key part of FMC’s safety 
culture. It provides an opportunity for employees to take 
time each day to focus and be engaged in an important 
safety topic. During the 2019 Safety Moment Week, FMC 
manufacturing employees worldwide stopped work 
each day to discuss such topics as vehicle safety, hazard 
recognition, office safety and chemical safety. In addition, 
site leaders were given the chance to include locally relevant 
safety topics. In 2019, participation in Safety Moment Week 
was exceptional among employees and contractors.
SMW Spotlight – Flintshire, UK
All employees from the Flintshire, UK, site participated 
in the Safety Moment Week activities in 2019. Topics 
presented at Flintshire included hazard recognition, 
office safety, vehicle safety and slips, trips and falls. 
These topics were presented in group activities which 
included hands-on demonstrations, videos and talks. FOCUS 120 DAYS
FMC conducts annual Focus Campaigns to highlight 
a safety topic of importance to the organization. 
Employees are engaged at all levels in the education 
and implementation of relevant topics based on data 
from incidents, near misses and observations. For each 
campaign, employees will engage in dialogs, activities 
and workshops related to a specific topic. 
In 2019, a Focus 120 Days Campaign on machine 
guarding was conducted. Machine guarding is the 
process of equipping machines to protect operators and 
other employees in the work area from hazards created 
by ingoing nip points, rotating parts, and flying chips and 
sparks. During this time, employees at manufacturing 
sites received training on various machine guarding 
topics. They then used the knowledge received from 
the training to conduct a “Go-See” activity where they 
observed on-site processes and operations for possible 
machine guarding issues. 
RESPONSIBLE CARE®
FMC receives two prestigious awards from the 
American Chemistry Council (ACC)
FMC received the ACC’s highest honor, the Responsible 
Care® Company of the Year Award, for 2020. We are 
proud to have won this award in three of the last 
four years (in 2017 and 2019). We also received ACC’s 
inaugural Transparency & Collaboration Sustainability 
Award in 2019.
Responsible Care® Company of the Year Award 
We received this award for our “unwavering leadership 
and exemplary commitment to the tenets of Responsible 
Care” (Cal Dooley, former ACC President and CEO). 
To be eligible for the Company of the Year award, 
ACC members must demonstrate they have met and surpassed Responsible Care® performance criteria, 
including: achieving a safety performance rating in 
the top 10 percent of companies in their size category 
with no significant process events in the previous 
year; positive performance measures in the areas of 
transportation safety, process safety and emissions 
reduction; and demonstrated improvements in 
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
performance, product stewardship, distribution safety 
and emergency preparedness.
Sustainability Award 
FMC was the recipient of ACC’s inaugural Transparency 
and Collaboration Sustainability Award for its 
Sustainability Assessment Tool. FMC developed 
the tool to help determine the sustainability of its 
active ingredients and products, from initial concept 
through each stage of development. The Sustainability 
Assessment Tool compares an active ingredient or 
formulated product to a benchmark to determine a 
“sustainability matrix value,” based on stewardship and 
sustainability criteria that consider product hazards, 
environmental and human exposure, and the overall 
life cycle of the product. This tool, which is scalable and 
replicable by other companies, enables stakeholders 
to understand FMC’s product ingredients and their 
sustainability impacts.
Safety Moment 
Week at 
Flintshire, UK
Karen Totland accepting 
the ACC Sustainability 
Award on behalf of FMC
Left to righ t: Jerry 
MacCleary (ACC Chairman) , 
Karen Totland (FMC Vice 
President of Procurement, 
Facilities and Sustainability) , 
Cal Dooley (former ACC 
President and CEO)Cabbage  
Brassica oleracea var. capitate16
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FMC Ethics and Compliance Award Winners
The Ethics and Compliance Achievement Awards  
recognize employees who make significant compliance-
related contributions and are champions of good behavior 
at FMC. The 2019 winners are:
North America
EVA HASZCZ
For leading work and educational programs 
at three R&D facilities to maintain “Good 
Laboratory Practices” compliance certifications. 
Asia Pacific
V. RAMCHANDRAN “RAM” 
For setting a strong “tone at the top” and 
prioritizing various compliance-related 
objectives in India. 
Europe, Middle East and Africa
MICKAËL MAHIEU
For leadership in product compliance  
and related contributions to “Contamination 
Prevention in the Manufacture of Crop 
Protection Products: Guidelines and  
Best Practices.” Latin America
(L-R)  JAVIER SCALISE, JUAN ABARCA,  
NOELIA DI GANGI
For showing initiative, creativity and teamwork on compliance-
related projects in Argentina, particularly as they relate to 
operations and finance.Ethics and Compliance
FMC has a longstanding 
commitment to ethics 
and compliance, which 
the company reinforced 
in 2019 with expanded 
communications, 
compliance processes and 
resources. Michael Reilly, 
Chief Compliance Officer, 
was appointed Executive 
Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary 
effective April 1, 2019. In connection with this transition, 
he created a new role in the Law Department for a 
lawyer fully dedicated to global ethics and compliance 
at FMC. Amy Foster assumed this new role as FMC’s 
Ethics and Compliance Counsel.
In 2019, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance Team led 
several awareness campaigns on topics such as 
antitrust compliance, sexual harassment prevention, 
careful communications and intellectual property 
protection. These awareness campaigns were 
available in many languages and were shared to a 
global audience. Further, the Team’s quarterly news 
magazine, E + C = FMC , helped employees to keep 
ethics and compliance top-of-mind with content on Ethics and Compliance initiatives and related 
company news. In Asia Pacific, a regional “speak 
up” campaign featured local leaders emphasizing 
the importance of raising compliance-related 
questions and concerns. Ethics and Compliance also 
led several “soft audits” of non-financial company 
policies, using data to determine what additional 
educational support might be helpful for ensuring 
ongoing compliance. To drive FMC’s compliance 
culture deeper into our local organizations, Ethics 
and Compliance ambassadors (approximately 
150 employees representing various regions and 
functions) met several times throughout the year and 
obtained feedback and ideas at the local level. 
In 2020, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance Team is 
leading several initiatives including:
 ▶Awareness and training campaigns focused on 
business ethics and corporate culture; insider 
trading; employment and workplace issues; and 
import, export and trade compliance
 ▶Updates to the FMC Ethics Response Line
 ▶Updates to key FMC policies
 ▶Enhanced third-party risk management programs
 ▶Enhanced Ethics and Compliance website
 ▶Ethics and Compliance events for  
FMC employees
Amy Foster, newly designated 
Ethics and Compliance Counsel
Spotlight: Intellectual Property Protection
This awareness campaign trained employees on trade secrets, patents, trademarks and copyrights. It 
featured customized video messages from FMC’s Chief Intellectual Property Counsel and other key 
leaders in FMC’s global business groups and functions. Throughout this campaign, digital screens at FMC 
Tower showed campaign-related messages, and multi-lingual electronic training modules circulated to 
thousands of employees globally. 
17
TOMORROW’S HARVESTTalent Management 
Working with leaders across the globe, we launched our 
FMC core values and linked them to seven competencies. 
Our learning, leadership and development programs 
are focused on building these competencies in our 
employees. Additionally, in 2019 our performance 
management process was updated such that 50 percent 
of an employee’s annual performance is based on 
achieving their objectives and 50 percent is based on 
how well they demonstrated the competencies. 
 
 LEARNING AND LEADERSHIP
Today’s most successful leaders foster meaningful 
relationships at every level in the organization and 
help elevate the performance and well-being of 
those around them. At FMC, we strive to consistently 
maintain our status as one of the top agricultural 
sciences companies in the world. It is important that 
we focus our programs and initiatives on sustaining 
strong leaders who are committed to engaging 
and developing their employees, so they can lead 
competitively, innovate change, improve business 
performance, and successfully maintain a competitive 
advantage. FMC’s leadership development program 
components include:
 ▶In-class and self-paced learning
 ▶Development planning and stretch assignments 
 ▶Project-based action learning and rotational learning
 ▶Mentoring and coaching
 ▶Leadership and functional assessments 
Our programs are designed to provide engaging, 
collaborative, and creative learning environments. 
Employees leverage their experiences in these 
programs to develop their leadership abilities to their highest levels, enabling them to deliver innovative 
solutions, strong results and continued growth. Three  
of our signature leadership programs are: 
SCIENCE OF LEADERSHIP
The Science of Leadership is designed to challenge those 
individuals who have demonstrated leadership potential 
as individual contributors or who are new to providing 
direction to a team. The program is built to have 
employees engage in several activities that allow for self-
awareness and how to lead, regardless of their position in 
the company. Through interactive learning, participants 
learn to work without silos, recognizing the value that 
approach brings to achieving desired outcomes. The 
goals of the Science of Leadership program are to: 
Equip participants with the skills to challenge 
others, strategically address change when it occurs 
within FMC and motivate teams for success
Improve participants’ understanding of the 
value of working across differences, including 
communication styles and range of influence
Encourage participants to think more broadly 
about their role and how to optimally drive results 
within FMC 
Associate Director of Learning  
and Organizational Development
In 2018, Sharon Rose Holmes (pictured with her husband) was named Associate 
Director of Learning and Organizational Development. She oversees Global 
Learning, Leadership and Performance. She successfully directs several Global 
Leadership and Talent Management initiatives and is based at FMC’s headquarters 
in Philadelphia. 
1Our Values and Competencies
Leadership
AccountableAdaptive
InnovativeStrategic
Inclusive
Functional/
Technical 
Knowledge/
Skills
Integrity  |  Safety  |  Sustainability  
Respect for People  |  Agility  |  Customer-CentricityCORE VALUES:18
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTHE ART OF LEADERSHIP
The Art of Leadership program creates the opportunity 
for individuals who provide direction to teams through 
direct supervision, or project oversight, to confront 
preconceived notions and past practices. The curriculum 
was designed for participants to recognize the impact 
of culture on performance, and their ability to shape 
the performance of the company at all levels through 
their actions. Each participant is compelled to reflect 
on their own leadership strengths and opportunities for 
growth through experiential learning, assessments, and 
team presentations. The goals of the Art of Leadership 
Program are to:
Increase participants’ emotional intelligence and 
abilities to tackle difficult situations within a  
global company
Enhance participants’ skills in managing change 
and empowering leaders within their teams to 
achieve peak performance
Ensure participants recognize the opportunities to 
challenge the status quo through coaching at all 
levels within the companyKEYS TO LEADERSHIP  
Our inaugural Keys to Leadership program was held at 
our headquarters in Philadelphia, bringing together 25 of 
our top talent employees for a multi-faceted leadership 
experience. The goals of The Keys to Leadership program 
and leadership programs in general at FMC are to:
Build strong and diverse leaders who then can 
support prolonged growth and deliver results 
Enable our leaders to better understand the balance 
between managing day-to-day priorities while also 
leading with vision, inspiration and authenticity
Increase retention and build a development 
culture among leaders
This cross-functional cohort of leaders engaged in 
learning with sessions facilitated by external experts 
and FMC leaders. Each participant was paired with a 
certified coach from the human resources team, who 
provided guidance on 360 feedback and aspects of their 
leadership potential. 360 Degree Feedback is a process 
where employees receive confidential, anonymous 
feedback from the people who work with them including 
their immediate manager, peers, customers and direct reports. The raters fill out a confidential online feedback 
form that asks questions covering a broad range of 
workplace competencies. This results in the participant 
receiving rich insight into their strengths as well as areas 
for development. Another essential feature of the Keys 
to Leadership program was the action learning projects 
which centered on real business issues and opportunities 
facing FMC. Each project was sponsored by an FMC 
executive. Each team worked on a project over the course 
of four months. Senior FMC leaders served as mentors to 
the teams. This approach exposed the teams to different 
areas of our 
business, had 
them work across 
time zones and 
functions, and 
collaborate on 
solutions. The 
culmination of the 
program included 
presentations 
to the executive 
leadership team. 
The Art of Leadership Asia Pacific cohort with Bethwyn Todd (FMC Asia President)
This training was one of the best trainings that I have ever attended in 
FMC. Both in terms of content and impact on my management style. It 
brought me two great leadership learnings - developing my sensitivity 
to understand different life perspectives/experiences and, linked to this, 
learning to be an inclusive leader by promoting diversity and leveraging  
the talents of the whole team.” 
Sinara Ferreira ,  
Commercial Director, Brazil, 2019 Art of Leadership“
Keys to Leadership participants in their break-out 
group discussing their action learning project2319
TOMORROW’S HARVESTDiversity & Inclusion
In 2019, we made significant progress on strengthening 
our culture of diversity and inclusion at FMC. That 
commitment continues to drive our ability to:
It is Diversity & Inclusion that differentiates us as an 
organization and establishes our competitive advantage 
in the marketplace. 
Identify and develop 
the best talent
Integrate diversity  
and inclusion in our 
policies and practicesCreate an inclusive 
culture where our 
workforce can thrive
Advocate inclusive 
behaviors
Our progress is exciting, but with each 
new year our journey evolves and we 
must recalibrate our efforts to avoid 
complacency. Success only means we must 
raise the bar, identify new opportunities, 
and embed diversity and inclusion deeper 
into our organizational culture.”
Subarna Malakar,  
Director and Global Diversity & Inclusion OfficerDiversity & Inclusion is critical for 
everyone to feel engaged and have a 
sense of belonging. It matters not only 
for current employees but also for the 
next generation of employees. It is a key 
differentiator for us. We focus on Diversity 
& Inclusion, not just because creating 
a diverse and inclusive workforce is the 
right thing to do, but because it makes 
sound business sense. It is important for 
our future success.”
Mark Douglas , President and Chief Executive Officer
““CHAMPIONING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 
WITH FMC’S SENIOR LEADERSHIP
The commitment to Diversity & Inclusion starts from 
the top and in 2019 we spent two half-day sessions with 
senior leadership focused on two important aspects. 
In the first session we used interactive theatre with 
professional actor-trainers to bring to life vignettes that 
explored gender, LGBTQ+, race and intergenerational 
interactions that occur in FMC. In the second session, 
the executive committee reviewed challenges and 
opportunities relative to the state of people of color at 
FMC. The group discussed strategies for hiring people 
of color and focused on actions for us to accelerate 
development for people of color within the organization.
OUR D&I AMBITION STATEMENT
SEE YOURSELF IN FMC, BE YOURSELF IN FMC 
We strive to be an inclusive workplace where our 
employees reflect the community, are valued, find 
purpose in their work, and grow and contribute to their 
fullest potential.REGIONAL INCLUSION COUNCILS
To expand the Diversity & Inclusion strategy further 
into the organization, we launched three Regional 
Inclusion Councils in 2019. The objectives of the 
Inclusion Councils are to: 
 ▶Translate the global diversity and inclusion strategy 
(inclusive workplace, workforce diversity, inclusive 
leadership, and business impact and external 
credentials) into regional action items in Asia 
Pacific (APAC), Latin America (LATAM) and Europe, 
the Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
 ▶Unify and focus region-wide efforts on Diversity & 
Inclusion and engage Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) and the broader community among the 
APAC, LATAM and EMEA regions
 ▶Focus on regional and local diversity needs and 
align them to our business successAlmond  
Prunus dulcis20
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Human Rights Campaign:  
100 on Corporate Equality Index 
FMC earned 100 percent on the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index
FMC received a score of 100 percent on the 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2020 
Corporate Equality Index (CEI), the U.S.’s premier 
benchmarking survey and report measuring 
corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ+ 
workplace equality. FMC joins the ranks of more 
than 680 major U.S. businesses that also earned 
top marks this year.
2020
OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
In 2019, we continued to evolve our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to better align with our business. While strengthening the core ERGs, we expanded and launched three more 
ERGs: i-Gen (Inter-generational), VIVID (People with Disabilities) and HONOR (Military, Veterans and families). 
We would like to highlight two of our Employee 
Resource Groups for bringing their mission to life  
with initiatives and activities to engage and support  
our employees.
SPECTRUM
Mission:  To increase the 
visibility of LGBTQ+ issues 
within FMC through education 
and awareness initiatives. 
Encourage fellowship, thoughtful 
dialogue and an inclusive understanding of LGBTQ+ 
identity through formal and informal interaction and 
engagement with the FMC community at large.
2019 Highlights:
 ▶Expanded our healthcare benefits to include 
domestic partner benefits and transgender 
inclusive benefits in the U.S.
 ▶Organized two “How to be an Ally” awareness 
sessions as part of our PFLAG national partnership 
 ▶Participated in the Philadelphia Pride Parade and 
hosted an FMC booth at the Pride Festival
 ▶Conducted three sessions during Pride Month to 
engage allies, friends and parents of LGBTQ+ and 
talk about how to be a supportive ally
FMC has focused on driving meaningful progress in diversity and inclusion at FMC, including 
several significant policy changes related to parental leave and domestic partner and transgender 
inclusion benefits in the U.S. over the past several years. Creating a workplace where people feel 
engaged and a sense of belonging matters for current employees and also the next generation 
of employees and the future of our company. Our CEI score reflects the importance we place on 
recognizing and appreciating each other’s differences so that all our employees around the world 
can grow and contribute to their fullest potential.”
Pierre Brondeau , Executive Chairman“WOMEN’S INITIATIVE NETWORK 
Mission:  To raise the profile of women  
at FMC encouraging well-being, education, 
development and networking in the workplace.
2019 Highlights:
 ▶Organized a learning and development initiative called “Day in 
the Life of” showcasing employees on what they do day-to-day to 
bring more exposure and visibility of their roles and themselves
 ▶Invited local police officers to discuss personal safety 
 ▶Conducted other programs such as speed networking, 
lunch with leaders, career panels with local universities and 
community outreach to local non-profits. WIN also brought 
together all the regional WIN chapters for the International 
Women’s Day events and the Inclusion Month celebration
 ▶Organized all the regional WIN chapters to be together for the 
International Women’s Day events and Inclusion Month celebrationFor me personally, the opportunity to be a co-chair for WIN has increased my awareness 
around leading diverse people with different views and life experience. The opportunity 
to lead and see our team grow and drive such an impressive, impactful year has been 
truly rewarding.”
Tiffany Kung, Global R&D Scientist, Ecotoxicology and WIN Global Co-Chair “
WIN launched the Women in STEM  chapter during 2019. Previously referred 
to as Women in Engineering, Women in STEM has been expanded to bring 
together women across all STEM fields – science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics. The focus of the group is to:
 ▶Share information, best practices, skills, and experiences in science, 
technology, engineering and math fields
 ▶Connect women across FMC through a mentorship program and events 
 ▶Help FMC achieve its strategic goals through programs and activities 
that promote mentoring, employee recruitment and retention, career 
development and cultural awareness
THE BRIDGE
Mission:  To showcase and provide 
a community for the various ethnic 
cultures across FMC, which in turn 
help recruit and retain talent. To 
bring cultural awareness to the 
FMC workforce in regions where 
we operate and to provide insight into best practices when 
working with various cultures.I-GEN
Mission:  To leverage multi-generational 
differences and commonalities for personal 
and professional growth to attract and retain 
talent that enhances FMC’s strength in 
diversity and inclusion in the marketplace. 
Thereby, the iGen Network will serve to 
develop, connect, and empower employees from all generations to 
have a voice and cultivate leadership within FMC.
HONOR
Mission:  To promote veterans, family and friends of the military in 
their careers at FMC and to help FMC recruit and retain employees 
who are veterans. It will also provide members a way to engage, 
collaborate and learn from others with shared experiences.
VIVID
Mission:  To foster an environment that supports FMC employees and their 
families who have a disability. The VIVID network strives to raise awareness 
about the unique needs and talents of individuals living with disabilities 
and helps to ensure all employees and partners are accepted, valued and 
treated fairly in all communities.
NEW GENERATION
Mission:  To create a D&I 
culture within Cork Shared 
Services centered on core 
values and committed to 
inclusion and excellence.
21 TOMORROW’S HARVEST22
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP SESSIONS
FMC values employee diversity and aims to foster an 
inclusive environment in which all employees with 
different backgrounds and experiences are valued, 
respected and encouraged to contribute to their fullest 
potential. One of the ways we do that is to build the 
competencies of managers and employees to advocate 
inclusive behavior in our organization. In these sessions, 
our employees learned about the benefits of inclusive 
leadership, including the positive impact it can have on 
employee engagement, innovation and creativity. We 
conducted 18 face-to-face sessions and trained over 900 
leaders, managers and employees in all of our regions 
around the world. The training was based on Deloitte’s 
Six signature traits of inclusive leadership  white paper 
and focused on those key strengths of inclusive leaders: 
Cognizance of Bias, Curiosity, Collaboration, Courage, 
Commitment and Cultural Intelligence. Being involved in FMC’s truly global 
International Women’s Day was an 
amazing and humbling experience. 
Speaking on a company-wide stage for 
the first time, while daunting, was so 
rewarding. I’ve had employees come up to 
me, even months later, and express how 
much the panelists sharing their stories 
resonated with them personally.”
Stephanie Herring , Senior Associate Scientist, 
Women’s Initiative Network Global Co-Chair“
The WIN Core Leadership team 
celebrating International Women’s Day
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY 2020
FMC joined the global celebration of International 
Women’s Day in March, raising awareness of the need 
for gender equality and #EachforEqual worldwide. 
Across all of our regions, employees celebrated this 
special day and took part in activities that included 
presentations, panel discussions and lunch-and-learn 
sessions focused on gender, diversity and inclusion. We 
also launched ‘ Women Who Rock ’ and ‘ Men Advocating 
Real Change ’, an internal employee engagement and 
recognition campaign to celebrate the phenomenal 
women in FMC and highlight remarkable men who are 
advocates of gender diversity.
Females Males2019 FMC Total Workforce  
by Region + Gender
64% 67% 75% 75% 71%36% 33% 25% 25% 29%
Asia Pacific Global EMEAFMC supports a global and diverse 
workforce. Our total workforce includes 
6,236 full-time regular employees globally 
as of December 31, 2019.
North  
America
Latin  
America23 TOMORROW’S HARVESTINCLUSION MONTH:
2018
2019
Percentage of Women in Senior Management 28%
32%FMC dedicated the month of October to provide 
awareness, education, and engagement to its employees 
and to commemorate its ongoing commitment to 
Diversity & Inclusion. FMC marked the importance of 
diversity in the workplace and the continued success we 
hope to see in the future. Each week of the month, FMC 
hosted global events that included all employees at their 
respective regional sites as well as global broadcasts 
from FMC Tower. Speakers featured throughout 
the month engaged with employees about real-life 
experiences on their journeys to becoming advocators 
for diversity and inclusion. We had overwhelming 
success as we hosted several activities and events across 
all of our regions with four global events:
 ▶Keynote: Why Representation is Only the 
Beginning for People of Color  – Tara Jaye Frank
 ▶Keynote: When Someone Comes Out: 
Demonstrating Support and Acceptance  –  
Jean-Marie Navetta WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
(Grade 25+)
We made good progress in 2019 with a 4 percent 
increase in women in senior management due to our 
D&I strategy, action plans and commitment from our 
senior leaders. While these results are good, we have 
more work to do. We have initially focused on women in 
leadership roles and commit to continue to increase our 
number of female leaders. We are also now developing 
plans to increase female representation in our overall 
employee population. 
FMC was ranked 128 out of 500 companies globally on the Forbes list of The World’s Best 
Employers. The list is curated by Forbes, in partnership with Statista, a statistical analysis 
company and is based on 1.4 million employment recommendations pulled from 
global polls and regional surveys. The global respondents are asked multiple questions 
regarding their employer and whether they would recommend their company to a 
friend or family member.
 ▶Keynote: Celebrating National Disability 
Employment Awareness Month  – Eric Alva
 ▶Global World Café Week – Understanding our 
cultures through food
The regional teams put together 82 regional events  
with thousands of employees engaged and more 
than 300,000 social media online impressions (views, 
interactions, engagement).We must understand growers are dependent on the quality 
of their air, water and soil. If I don’t preserve our soil, the 
environment, water springs, our dams, then our company 
will cease to exist. We must have a long-term view. And why 
should we do this? Because our planet has no plan B.”
– Alvaro Luiz Dilli Gonçalves , HR and Sustainability Officer, SLC AGRÍCOLA S/A  
   (A major grower and customer of FMC)
Read Alvaro’s full interview on www.FMCsustainability.com/voices“our 
PRODUCTS
Alvaro Luiz Dilli Gonçalves,  
HR and Sustainability Officer 
25
TOMORROW’S HARVESTSCIENCE TO GROW
Helping farmers produce more food, feed, fiber and 
fuel for a growing world population is a tall order. 
Growers rely on many tools to help meet this challenge, 
but nothing is more important than having the right 
technologies to combat threats of disease, insects and 
weeds. Any one of these invasive threats can impact 
yields and potentially destroy a farmer’s crops in a 
matter of days. 
A continuing stream 
of new molecules and 
products help growers 
protect their crops 
against these threats. 
As resistance to older technologies increases, modern 
solutions with new modes of action are critical to 
successful and sustainable farming. 
Our target is to advance one new patented synthetic 
active ingredient every year on average from the 
discovery pipeline to development. 
87%
2018
93%
2019R&D SPEND R&D SPEND
FMC R&D Spend on Sustainably Advantaged Products
goal of 100% by 2025
Note:  A sustainably advantaged product is one that 
positively impacts at least one of the six major Global 
Challenges: Food Expectations, Health and Safety 
Expectations, Environmental Consciousness, Climate 
Change, Scarce Resources and Land Competition, but 
does not retreat in any of the five other areas.In 2019, we advanced two new products to 
development. The first is a herbicide featuring a new 
mode of action that controls a broad spectrum of 
broadleaf and grass weeds, gives growers flexibility in 
application timing, and is safe for corn, soybeans and 
other crops. The second is an insecticide that controls 
insects such as aphids that can destroy soybeans, 
cereals, vegetables, cotton, corn and many other 
high-value crops. Today, we have 22 new proprietary 
molecules in our award-winning synthetic pipeline, with 
14 featuring new modes of action for the crop to which 
they are applied. Our scientists are biased to discover 
new modes of action, which provide additional benefits 
to growers, including: 
 ▶Controlling pests that are resistant to products 
currently on the market. 
 ▶Maintaining product efficacy longer by providing 
more tools for growers to rotate different modes 
of action during a season, known as Integrated 
Pest Management. 
 ▶Potentially lower use rates than existing products, 
supporting a stronger sustainability profile.INNOVATION GOALS PROGRESS
Lemon  
Citrus limon26
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Plant Health
Biologicals represent a diverse group of plant protection 
products derived from microorganisms and other 
naturally occurring materials. FMC discovers and 
develops biologicals in its Plant Health business, which 
has grown significantly in the last several years.
Today, we are working on new bioinsecticides, 
bionematicides, biofungicides and biostimulants at our 
European Innovation Center in Hørsholm, Denmark. 
These biological products feature new modes of action 
and excellent sustainability profiles. Biologicals offer 
benefits beyond their environmental profile. They can 
help plants overcome difficult growing conditions, fight 
disease and even assist in regulating the plant’s uptake 
of nutrients and use of limited water.
Plant Biologicals 
Network  was 
established to 
facilitate knowledge 
exchange on 
research, innovation, regulation, and education 
within the field of plant biologicals. FMC is one of the nine founding members of the organization. The 
vision of the organization is to support the growth 
of plant biologicals in agriculture to adapt to the 
societal and environmental challenges of today. 
In 2019, FMC played a key role at the annual Plant 
Biologicals Symposium in Denmark which focused 
on applied research and development in areas where 
plant biologicals might be part of the solution to 
agricultural challenges and climate change. FMC’s 
EMEA Regulatory and Development leader, Charlotte 
Klank, was a key speaker who presented FMC’s 
experience with developing microbial products 
that have a consistent efficacy and addressed key 
considerations when introducing biological products 
to the market.
European Innovation Center, Denmark
Three years ago, we established our European Innovation Center (EIC) in Hørsholm, Denmark, to accelerate in-house biological 
discovery and screening. At the EIC, scientists isolate natural microbes from soil and screen them for unique biopesticide or 
biostimulant solutions. In 2019 we expanded our facility to include state-of-the-art fermentation and downstream processing 
equipment. The new EIC pilot plant fermenters enable FMC to do its own process development and efficiently scale-up volumes 
of material for biological evaluation in the field.
Stavros Kalafatakis, Research Scientist, using the newly installed fermentation processing equipment at EIC, Denmark.
Charlotte Klank (Regulatory & 
Development Leader, Plant Health)
Biological Nematicides
FMC’s Quartzo® and Presence® nematicides have 
been significantly improving the lives of growers 
across Brazil. Nematodes are responsible for 
significant crop losses where they occur. Not 
only can these products greatly reduce the 
threat of nematodes, but they also have the 
secondary benefits of plant growth promotion, 
improved soil quality in certain crops through 
increased microbial activity and increased 
plant drought resistance. In 2019, Quartzo® and 
Presence® won Agriscience Intelligence’s Best 
New Biological (Biopesticide) Product award. 
Bionematicides can protect plant roots from nematode infection 
through multiple modes of action including biofilm formation. 27
TOMORROW’S HARVEST27 TOMORROW’S HARVESTSOIL HEALTH 
Improving and maintaining soil health is vital in promoting a 
sustainable food system. In 2015, we launched the Dr Soil™ Mobile 
lab soil testing service in Pakistan that allows farmers to complete 
a soil fertility test on their fields and equips them with essential soil 
science knowledge. This initiative enables farmers to have a deeper 
understanding of soil science and shift many out of unsustainable 
farming practices. We educated approximately 100,000 farmers through 
the Dr Soil™ program in 2019 and expanded the program to many 
 Dr SoilTM Mobike Kit
GROWER PERSPECTIVES
Accudo® bio-stimulant was developed to enhance crop 
growth in vegetables and fruits such as tomatoes, red 
peppers, cucumbers and strawberries. The product 
enhances crop growth by increasing phosphorus 
solubility in the soil. It was also developed to have a 
significantly lower dosage rate (approximately 1 liter 
per hectare) compared to competitive products in the 
market. We designed Accudo® bio-stimulant with a two-
year shelf life whereas other biologicals in the market 
typically have a shelf-life of approximately one year. The 
extended shelf life minimizes the risk of dealing with 
expired product, avoiding financial losses for growers 
and also reduces costs and emissions associated with 
destroying obsolete product. THE FUTURE OF BIOLOGICALLY BASED 
CROP SOLUTIONS 
FMC’s journey into biological pesticides and bio-
stimulants has just begun. We have submitted four 
biological strain registration dossiers to the European 
Union for approval. This achievement is a key milestone 
to develop and commercialize a first wave of biological 
solutions with fungicidal or nematicidal properties that 
help address the increased demand for zero residues on 
food. Furthermore, registration submissions have also 
been made in the U.S., Latin America and Asia Pacific 
countries for several biological products. Accudo® bio-stimulant helps plants take 
up nutrients better. So, crops become 
healthier, which ultimately leads to higher 
yields. This year is much better than last year. So many of my tangerines are marketable. 
Last year, I harvested about 20,000kg of fruit. This year I estimate about 30,000kg. Much of 
my success this year can be attributed to the product.”
Mr Sun-Gwon So , Grower , Sae-mi Farm , Jeju, South Korea
“other countries in the Asia-Pacific Region including China, Korea and 
Indonesia. In Indonesia, we launched the Dr Soil™ compact ‘Mobike kits’ 
so FMC employees can transport the lab more cost-effectively using a 
motorcycle allowing greater farmer reach. In 2019, FMC was a recipient 
of the Agribusiness Intelligence Crop Science Forum and Awards Best 
Stewardship Program for the Dr Soil™ Mobile lab. 28
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Precision Agriculture
As growers desire more visibility into the health of their fields and 
more precise tools to manage their crops, FMC is evolving our 
portfolio to address the changing needs of our customers. Our 
Precision Agriculture solutions enable growers and their advisors 
to operate more effectively and sustainably through the power of 
data and machine learning.
For over 75 years, FMC has been providing agronomic insights to 
our customers. Data-powered tools offer a clearer picture of our 
customers’ unique needs and pest issues, enabling us to provide 
the crop protection advice our customers rely on in faster, easier, 
and smarter ways. Precision agriculture solutions from FMC 
Arc™ Farm Intelligence
FMC’s Arc™ farm intelligence enables 
growers to monitor insects and make pest 
management decisions with a higher level of 
precision and confidence. This proprietary mobile 
platform is a first in the agricultural industry to deliver real-time data 
that predicts insect pressure one week in advance with more than 
90 percent confidence for key insects to help growers protect yields. 
For key pests, Arc™ farm intelligence provides pest pressure 
forecasts based on aggregated historical data, hyper-local weather 
data and real-time regional pest mapping. The digital interface 
provides customized alerts for growers to manage scouting, 
indicate when action is needed and recommend treatment 
options. This solution results in decreased environmental impact 
by allowing farmers to spray at the right time to address pest 
pressure. Furthermore, these early detection systems can manage 
infestations before they escalate and, in the long run, can help 
delay pest resistance issues through more effective and targeted 
product application.
will plug into the systems that our growers are already using to 
provide easy access to information. We are dedicated to providing 
our customers with the best technologies to combat threats of 
disease, insects and weeds.
FMC is currently working with cotton growers in Greece to  
help predict bollworm pressure using ArcTM farm intelligence.  
In other countries, including Brazil, Spain and the United States, 
the platform is being piloted on a broad range of crops from 
brassicas to corn to lettuce.
Soybean  
Glycine max29
TOMORROW’S HARVESTProduct Highlight  
XywayTM 3D fungicide
In North America, we recently received U.S. EPA approval 
for Xyway™ 3D fungicide. This new at-plant fungicide is 
formulated for use with our 3RIVE 3D® application system. 
For the first time, growers with 3RIVE 3D® application 
systems will be able to make at-plant fungicide 
applications for control of various foliar corn diseases 
such as Grey Leaf Spot and Northern Corn Leaf Blight.
Using the 3RIVE 3D® application system, Xyway™ 
3D fungicide is placed in the soil near the seed in 
a concentrated ribbon of foam where the active 
ingredient is taken up throughout the season by the 
root system. This results in lower worker exposure, lower 
volume applications, better coverage, more consistent 
control and better plant uptake with less planter weight 
and less water.
Untreated Check XywayTM 3D fungicide  
11.2 fl. oz./A at plant
 
FMC’s 3RIVE 3D® application system
Scion™ with UVX™ Technology – 
Keeping people safe from  
diseases and pests
In 2019, FMC launched Scion™ insecticide 
with UVX technology. Scion™ protects 
households from pests and vectors such 
as cockroaches, mosquitoes and ticks. It is 
engineered to provide immediate control and 
maintain a continuous residual even when 
faced with harsh surfaces, high temperatures 
and intense sunlight. These features make 
Scion™ ideal for long service intervals, tough 
pests or areas that face extreme conditions.
Scion™ is powered by gamma-cyhalothrin, the 
most efficient pyrethroid active ingredient. 
Gamma-cyhalothrin has the lowest use rate 
compared to other pyrethroids in the market. 
FMC will conduct large-scale farmer testing of 
Xyway™ 3D fungicide in corn in 2020. FMC anticipates 
commercially launching the fungicide in 2021 and is 
also evaluating its application in other crops.
Global Specialty Solutions
FMC’s expertise in pest control extends beyond 
agriculture to include professional (turf, ornamental and 
structural pests), consumer (home, lawn and garden) 
and environmental management (vector control) sectors. 
FMC’s Global Specialty Solutions (GSS) business aims 
to be a global leader in protecting public health and 
improving quality of life through sustainable innovation.
PROFESSIONAL
CONSUMER ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENTGSS SECTORS30 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PROJECT SAFFAL –  
STEWARDSHIP THROUGH COLLABORATION
The Fall Armyworm (FAW) pest has been a serious concern for 
farmers throughout India. Originating in South America and 
spreading across Africa, the pest was confirmed in India in 2018. 
With no natural predators, the pest has now spread to 20 states 
and has greatly impacted India’s corn production, affecting the 
food security of millions who rely on the crop for daily nutrition. 
In May 2019, FMC India collaborated with the South Asia 
Biotechnology Centre to launch Project SAFFAL (Safeguarding 
Agriculture and Farmers against Fall Armyworm) to educate 
farmers on FAW. In its first year, Project SAFFAL reached over 
7,000 farmers through dedicated training workshops across 
11 states and has collaborated with numerous public sector 
institutions, retailers and students.
In August 2019, Project SAFFAL launched the fallarmyworm.org.in   
website which is a dedicated portal on FAW with a repository of 
information on FAW education, sustainable control strategies 
and FAW alerts.
Project SAFFAL is pivotal to the FAW campaign in India and 
has contributed significantly to capacity building, knowledge 
transfer and engagement among farmers, retailers, industry, 
scientists, academia and government officials.Product Stewardship
Product stewardship is a key component of FMC’s 
sustainability core value. We continue to strive for 
open and transparent communications about our 
product stewardship successes and challenges. 
In last year’s report we outlined our stewardship 
strategic pillars – processes, engagement, 
measuring and monitoring. We are now focusing on 
the projects which will help identify any issues and 
gaps and then work towards successful mitigating 
solutions. Two important issues being addressed 
by FMC and CropLife International are training 
programs for farmers on the importance of personal 
protective equipment (PPE) when applying 
products and good management practices for 
empty product containers.
In India, recognizing that training is just one method 
for encouraging farmers to adopt responsible use 
of our products, we initiated a pilot program using 
the principles of behavioral science. In this program, 
members of our marketing and sales teams were 
trained on how to use behavioral science to improve 
their engagement with farmers in ways that can 
trigger positive changes in their behavior. The 
program focused on the use of PPE by farmers when 
using our products and the application of products 
at the correct dosage to optimize performance.
Product Stewardship Projects Overview
CUSTOMER  
TRAININGEMPLOYEE  
TRAININGMANAGING  
ADVERSE  
 INCIDENTSLABEL REVIEWSPRODUCT  
STEWARDSHIP  
DUE DILIGENCE
Revamp customer 
training materials 
to promote Good 
Agricultural Practices  
to farmers and retailersTrain employees to 
increase awareness 
about Product 
Stewardship and 
leverage their knowledgeAssess emergency 
response telephone 
numbers on labels 
and SDSDevelop label review 
process and conduct 
product stewardship 
reviews for all 
country labelsDefine process to conduct 
Stewardship assessments on 
products, to identify potential 
risks and implement mitigation 
measures to prevent incidents
An example of communication materials for Project SAFFALApple  
Malus domestica31
TOMORROW’S HARVEST
FMC CHINA RECOGNIZED AS LEADER IN 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
At the 6th Summit Forum of Pesticide Safety and 
Scientific Use organized by the China Crop Protection 
Industry Association (CCPIA), FMC China was recognized 
for three awards:
 ▶2019 Excellent Crop Health Management  
Solution Award  – Coragen® insecticide and 稻青青 
(DQQ) herbicide 
 ▶2019 Product Safety and Scientific Use, 
Outstanding Company Award  – FMC was 
recognized by industry experts for its efforts in 
conducting safety and scientific use training. FMC 
China has been working closely with government 
authorities to organize more 
than 1,300 training sessions on 
product safety use, which has 
reached about 55,000 people, 
including farmers, retailers 
and distributors. Content 
includes how to read labels, 
how to correctly use pesticides, how to implement 
the use of personal protective equipment, how to 
lower resistance risk and how to protect pollinators. 
In addition, FMC was lauded for its exemplary 
role in promoting the safety of the farmer-field 
environment, increasing pesticide use efficiency and 
utilization rate, as well as contributing to the healthy 
and sustainable development of the entire industry. 
 ▶2019 Product Safety and Scientific Use Model 
Worker Award  – Xinlan Zhao, FMC’s Technical 
Services representative 
in Shandong Province, 
was recognized for her 
outstanding work in 
training stakeholders 
on the safe use of 
pesticides. She was  
selected from both 
government and private 
sector employees.ENGAGING GROWERS IN THE ANDEAN REGION
In 2019, the Andean Region Stewardship Program 
utilized the 7 Habits of Responsibility  during the 
Handling and Use of Pesticides program to engage 
customers on Good Agricultural Practices to help 
protect their health and the environment. Trainers 
from around the region conducted hands-on 
workshops to share these best practices. Since its 
inception, the program has trained over 12,000 farmers 
throughout the Andean region including Ecuador, 
Colombia and Peru. After each training session, a 
sample of participants were tested to ensure a proper 
understanding of the concepts shared. 
In 2019, FMC received official commendation from 
the Ecuadorian Agrocalidad – Agencia de Regulación 
y Control Fito y Zoosanitario  (Agricultural Regulation 
and Control Agency for Plant and Animal Health) 
for stewardship efforts in the Handling and Use of 
Pesticides program. 1,3001,300
TRAINING SESSIONS
ON PRODUCT  
SAFETY USEHighly Hazardous Pesticides
FMC is continuing to phase out Highly Hazardous 
Pesticides (HHPs) from our product portfolio. We 
evaluate HHPs using the criteria and process defined by 
the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization 
(FAO) which is the globally accepted regulatory 
classification scheme. At the end of 2019 we ceased sales 
of carbofuran in the few remaining countries where it 
was sold. We currently have eight HHPs remaining in our 
portfolio and are identifying those to be phased out over 
the next two years. In 2020, these eight HHPs account 
for less than 0.5 percent of projected global sales. Risk 
assessments and product stewardship programs for 
the remaining HHPs in the specific countries of sales 
continues so we are aware of any issues that may occur 
and can address them immediately. 
Utilization of our Product Stewardship and Sustainability 
Assessment tool ensures that we screen out potential 
HHPs early in the development process of new products. 
Our commitment is steadfast to not develop or sell any 
new HHPs.
Particpants at the Handling and Use of Pesticides Program in Sonson  
Antioquia, Ecuador 
Participant testing for the Handling and Use of Pesticides program was 
conducted through a picture-based multiple-choice questionnaire with the 
option for participants to take the test in written or oral format. As a company, we need to ensure the sustainability and 
safety of our products to maintain the right to operate. 
Environmental standards may well be more stringent in 
the future. If we stretch ourselves and work towards higher 
standards now, we are setting ourselves up to continue to 
succeed in the future.”
– Tessa Scown , Global Regulatory Ecotoxicologist, FMC Corporation
Read Tessa’s full interview on www.FMCsustainability.com/voices“our 
PROGRESSTessa Scown,  
Global Regulatory Ecotoxicologist
33
TOMORROW’S HARVEST
Community Engagement 
We strive to impact the communities that surround us in positive ways. To 
monitor this, all manufacturing facilities and select R&D facilities report on 
their community engagement activities quarterly. Their activities are measured 
quantitatively using the Community Engagement (CE) Index*. Other facilities such 
as regional offices and shared service centers are also encouraged to give back to 
their surrounding communities and are monitored qualitatively.COMMUNITY EVENTS AROUND THE GLOBE
The CE score was slightly lower in 2019 as we added sites following the acquisition 
of part of the DuPont crop chemical business. In total, all sites included in the CE 
metric organized a total of 240 events across the world. In the coming year, we will 
be working with each site to deepen their community impact and ensure they are 
working to understand the needs of their communities. 2019 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT INDEX RESULTS
90
2018COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT
81
2019COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT
Sugarcane  
Saccharum officinarum
2019 Results 
on Community 
Engagement 
Index and progress 
towards
goal of 100  
by 2025
*The Community Engagement goal and metric are detailed on page 4 .ASIA
Lahore, Pakistan – Rural Women’s Initiative
The Rural Women’s Initiative was launched in 2018. 
The program trains FMC sales personnel to raise 
awareness on a variety of topics regarding the role 
of women in the workforce. Through daily meetings 
with farmers, our sales personnel present ways in 
which women’s education can benefit society. These 
meetings are often with rural leaders who are almost 
exclusively men. To date, 100,000 farmers have 
participated in these presentations. 
Singapore – Willing Hearts Soup Kitchen
FMC Singapore volunteered at the Willing Hearts 
Soup Kitchen, a volunteer-run organization that 
prepares, cooks and distributes 6,000 meals a day to 
over 40 locations across the island. Beneficiaries 
include the elderly, the disabled, low-income 
families, children from single-parent families or 
poverty-stricken families and migrant workers in 
Singapore. Twenty volunteers from Asia Pacific’s 
regional headquarters and the Tuas plant spent the 
day washing dishes and preparing food.
EUROPE 
Uffholtz, France – Beehive Program
Through partnership with the urban beekeeping 
project, APIS City 68, our Uffholtz manufacturing 
facility installed three beehives on site in early 2019 
to encourage sustainable beekeeping practices and 
support pollinator health. The project culminated 
with “Bee Day” on October 1, 2019 that included a talk, 
exhibition and honey sampling for all employees. 34
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
NORTH AMERICA
Middleport, New York –  
Community Food Pantry
FMC Middleport employees recently partnered with 
the Middleport Area Community Food Pantry to 
collect and donate nearly 1,000 pounds of food to 
help those in need during the spring holiday season. 
The pantry serves more than 60 local families on a 
ongoing basis. FMC employees worked alongside 
Local 1180 of the International Association of 
Machinists and Aerospace Workers and FMC plant 
management. “Our entire FMC Middleport team was 
very generous in collecting and contributing such a 
large volume of food for use by the Middleport Area 
Community Food Pantry,” said Dr. Roberta Kloda, FMC 
Middleport plant manager. “We are very fortunate 
and know how important it is to share with those in 
our community who are in need.” 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania –  
Philadelphia Science Carnival
In 2019, FMC became the Presenting Sponsor 
of the Philadelphia Science Carnival, an annual 
celebration in which the region’s leading scientific, 
educational and cultural institutions collaborate to 
create unique events to inspire passion for science 
in the Philadelphia community. With this increased 
sponsorship, we took our presence on the Benjamin 
Franklin Parkway to the next level and recruited over 
70 employees to help make this day special through 
engaging, hands-on activities.
Manati, Puerto Rico
In September 2019, 60 employees of FMC’s Manati 
manufacturing site responded swiftly to gather 
supplies for the Hurricane Dorian relief effort for 
the Bahamas. Employees rallied together to collect cleaning supplies, groceries and household items 
while the plant donated two generators to the 
cause. The effort was done in collaboration with the 
local State Emergency Management and Disaster 
Administration Agency.
LATIN AMERICA
Barra Mansa, Brazil
Twenty-four students from the University of the State 
of São Paulo Guaratinguetá Faculty of Engineering 
visited FMC’s Barra Mansa production facility for 
a day of learning to gain industry experience and 
ignite their passion for engineering and STEM fields. 
Lectures were presented on industry best practices 
and career advice in production, technology and 
Environmental Health and Safety sectors. Students 
were also exposed to continuous improvement 
tools such as lean six sigma. The event culminated 
with students joining hands with FMC employees to 
plant 35 trees on-site that are native to Brazil’s Mata 
Atlantica region. Over the years, FMC employees have 
collaborated both internally and with various student 
groups to plant more than 20,000 native trees on-site. 
Campinas, Brazil –  
Varal da Solidariedade
Through the Varal da Solidariedade (Solidarity 
Clothesline) program, FMC Brazil employees 
exchanged Christmas cards made by students cared 
for by local NGO Primavera. Primavera provides 
afterschool education and professional help for 
children aged 6-18 and their families in Campinas, 
São Paulo. Approximately 1,500 pounds of food and 
toys were also collected by FMC employees and were 
distributed to students at Primavera. 
35 TOMORROW’S HARVESTEnergy intensity -14% -25%
GHG emissions intensity -14% -25%
Waste disposed intensity -12%Sustain to  
2018 intensity
Water use intensity  
at high-risk locations-24% -20%
2019 | Environmental Results
Notes about Environmental Data:
1. In 2019, energy, GHG emissions, water, waste and production data for legacy FMC and legacy DuPont were externally assured. In the chart 
above, they are combined and referred to as ‘FMC’.
2. In 2019, the external assurance did not include the active ingredient contract manufacturing sites.
3. The intensity calculations above only include data from FMC-owned facilities and do not include footprint data from active ingredient 
contract manufacturers and independent companies. 
4. The environmental footprint from active ingredient contract manufacturing sites includes energy, GHG emissions and waste disposed. 
Water use at high risk locations is not reported at this time.FMC measures and reports our environmental footprint on an intensity basis – i.e., energy (in gigajoule), GHG emissions 
(tonne CO2 equivalent), waste disposed (tonne), and water use at high-risk locations (cubic meter) per tonne of product. 
The table to the left shows progress towards our environmental reduction targets at the end of 2019. The metrics include 
all the DuPont sites we acquired in November 2017 but excludes all Lithium sites (now known as Livent) that were 
separated in March 2019. Significant intensity reductions were achieved for all environmental metrics against our 2030 
Sustainability Goals. This was primarily due to efficiency and yield improvements, reduced unplanned shutdowns and 
increased total production of 11 percent in 2019 compared to baseline year 2018. We also shifted product mix towards 
producing products that utilized less resources. In addition, we initiated several sustainability related projects to reduce 
energy and water usage and reduce waste generation for disposal. Such measures have also reduced our absolute 
energy usage, GHG emissions, water usage and waste disposed amounts. The charts below include environmental 
metrics for FMC sites (all FMC-owned manufacturing sites and the FMC Stine Research Center), active ingredient 
contract manufacturing sites and independent companies (see next page for further detail).
For further details on our environmental progress, please visit www.FMCsustainability.com2019 RESULTS
(Compared to 
2018 Baseline)FMC CORPORATION  
METRIC2030 GOAL
(Compared to 
2018 Baseline)
Global High-Risk Water Use
High Risk Water Use, Thousand Cubic Meters
High-Risk Water Use Intensity, Cubic Meter/MT0.51.52.02.53.03.54.0
1.0
320325330335340345350355
2018 2019
 FMC Independent Companies 
FMC Intensity Active Ingredient 
Contract ManufacturingTotal Waste Disposed, K-Tonnes
Waste Disposed Intensity, kg/MTGlobal Waste Disposed 
100200300400500600
44454647484950515253
2018 2019GHG, K-Tonnes C02e
GHG Intensity, Tonnes CO2e/MTGlobal GHG Emissions
0.3
0.10.50.70.91.11.31.5
050100150200250300350400
2018 2019Total Energy Use, KTJ
Energy Intensity, GJ/MTGlobal Energy Use
20
0.51.52.02.53.5
3.04.04.55.0
1.081012141618
6
4
2 0
2018 2019Rapeseed  
Brassica napus subsp. napus36
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
FMC has a network of manufacturing sites that synthesize 
active ingredients (AIs) and perform the final steps of 
product formulation, mixing and packaging. We also 
conduct extensive R&D activities to develop sustainable 
products for the future. The environmental footprint of 
these sites is tracked on a monthly basis. As growers’ needs 
change and pest pressures increase, we adjust our AI 
product mix to address these challenges for our customers.
In 2019, we set new 2030 environmental goals for FMC-
owned sites to reflect the changes to our business with 
the acquisition of the DuPont Crop Protection Business 
and the separation of the FMC Lithium business (see 
page 5  for more details). Sites work both independently 
and in collaboration with FMC’s Technology Center 
and sustainability team to determine strategies to 
consistently improve our resource utilization. 
FMC-OWNED SITES
 ▶Energy  – In 2019, we completed energy audits at 
two AI sites and one R&D site. As a result of these 
audits, we have invested in energy-efficient process 
equipment, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning 
(HVAC) systems and boiler replacements. In 2019, we 
also experienced minimal unexpected disruptions 
compared to 2018. This resulted in a reduction in 
absolute energy use by 4 percent and energy intensity 
by 14 percent compared to our 2018 baseline. 
 ▶GHG Emissions  – In 2019, reduction in GHG emission 
intensity was achieved primarily through reducing 
energy usage, as described in the previous section. 
In 2019, we achieved a reduction in absolute GHG 
emissions by 4 percent and GHG intensity by 14 percent 
compared to our 2018 baseline. 
 ▶Waste  - In 2019, our manufacturing sites produced 
hazardous waste, non-hazardous process waste and non-
hazardous non-process waste (primarily office waste). 
During this time, we improved our manufacturing  
 processes to use more concentrated reactants and 
reduced production of a waste intensive product. We 
have also undertaken projects to divert certain waste 
streams for beneficial end use. For example, at our Mobile, 
Alabama, site we are working with an external partner 
on a process to recover and reuse valuable solvent 
from one of our waste streams. In 2019, these measures 
resulted in a reduction of total waste disposed (waste to 
incinerator, landfill, external disposal and waste water) 
by 1 percent and waste disposed intensity by 12 percent 
compared to our 2018 baseline. 
 ▶Water  - In 2019, we reassessed our sites as defined by 
the World Resources Institute (WRI) aqueduct tool 
version 2.1. WRI uses 11 key water indicators to assess the 
risk level of a site. Eleven of our manufacturing sites fall 
within the medium- to high-risk zones based on the key 
water indicators (e.g., baseline water stress, groundwater 
table decline, wastewater and sanitation management). 
After an internal assessment of each of the 11 sites, we 
do not anticipate any significant issues in the near term. 
However, we will continue to closely monitor these 
sites. In 2019, we achieved a 6 percent reduction in 
absolute water use and a 24 percent reduction in water 
intensity at these sites compared to our 2018 baseline. 
We achieved this primarily through steam condensate 
recovery improvements at our Manatí, Puerto Rico, site. 
As part of the project, we improved the collection of 
condensate generated by heating processes and the 
ability to reuse it as boiler feedwater. 
FMC ACTIVE INGREDIENT CONTRACT 
MANUFACTURING SITES
FMC works with several third-party contract manufacturing 
sites to synthesize select AIs and intermediate products. 
These sites are not under FMC’s operational control 
and thus excluded from our 2030 environmental goals. 
However, we work closely with them to monitor their 
environmental footprint. FMC helps these sites achieve 
an improved environmental footprint through upgraded 
technology and capital investment.  ▶Energy  – Energy intensity increased by 13 percent 
compared to the 2018 baseline. In early 2019, operations 
at two contract manufacturing sites based in China 
were suspended following a fire and explosion at a 
separate facility approximately half a kilometer away. 
Through this suspension of production, energy was still 
consumed to keep the facilities in operational condition 
and to comply with the local government regulations to 
keep waste treatment facilities running. This resulted in 
overall increase in energy intensity. 
 ▶GHG Emissions  – GHG emissions intensity increased by 
7 percent compared to the 2018 baseline. A favorable 
energy mix (higher proportion of electricity compared 
to steam) resulted in a lower increase in GHG intensity 
compared to energy intensity. 
 ▶Waste  – Waste disposed intensity remained relatively 
flat compared to 2018, increasing only by 1 percent. 
The marginal increase was due to the suspension of 
production activity at two of our sites, as mentioned above. 
INDEPENDENT COMPANIES
At select FMC-owned manufacturing sites, independent 
companies operate within our premises and use FMC-
owned utilities and waste treatment facilities. These 
companies are not under FMC’s operational control and 
are therefore excluded from our 2030 environmental 
goals. However, as they reside within our physical 
boundary, their energy footprint is included with our 
Scope 1 emissions as per the GHG protocol. 
CONTINUED PROGRESS
Making progress on these goals requires identification 
and implementation of projects to reduce our 
environmental footprint. In 2019, FMC reset its 
environmental goals to reflect our current business. 
In the past year, we have also aggressively engaged 
internal and external technical resources to develop a 
project pipeline that will help us achieve the ambitious 
environmental goals we have set for 2030.11
22
33437
TOMORROW’S HARVESTRemediation and Beneficial 
Reuse of our Legacy Sites
As a 138-year-old chemical company, FMC has evolved 
significantly. Remediating former industrial areas, 
particularly older sites, are complex initiatives that 
often take decades to complete. FMC’s approach 
to remediation focuses on transforming these sites 
where possible, into usable spaces where people and 
ecosystems can thrive. Here are examples of three sites 
that are in various stages of completion:
NEWARK, CALIFORNIA
The conceptual design 
to the left represents 
the planned mixed 
use residential 
and commercial 
redevelopment 
on a portion of 
a former FMC 
property in Alameda 
County, California. 
Redevelopment of the 
entire FMC property 
into a mixed-use area 
including residential 
buildings, retail space, 
a neighborhood 
park and a transportation hub is part of a broader 
development plan established by the city. FMC is 
performing the remediation of the property in phases to 
expedite redevelopment and support the city’s plan.
FMC completed soil remediation to meet residential use 
standards on approximately 33 acres of this 40-acre site 
in 2017-2018. In 2019, FMC sold approximately 17 acres 
of the property for the first phase of redevelopment. Development activities began in late 2019.  FMC 
also received the necessary approvals from the local 
environmental regulatory agency to allow for the 
second phase of redevelopment on another 17 acres of 
the FMC property to begin in 2020, which will include 
mixed use residential, retail and transit. In 2020, FMC 
will begin the final phase of remediation retail on the 
remaining land, which will be converted into a public 
park. The remedy selected for the park area in 2019 
will involve treating contaminants in-place, thereby 
significantly reducing waste generation, GHG emissions 
and worker/public safety hazards compared with off-site 
transportation and disposal. Investing in remediation 
to residential use standards, which are more stringent 
than those for industrial use, will allow for beneficial 
reuse of this former manufacturing site to help meet 
the growing demand for housing in the San Francisco 
Bay Area. 
MIDDLEPORT, NEW YORK
On June 7, 2019, FMC entered into a new Order on 
Consent and Administrative Settlement with the New 
York State Department of Environmental Conservation 
(NYSDEC). This Order outlines activities and 
responsibilities related to the remediation of both on- 
and off-site areas that have been impacted by historical 
operations at our Middleport, New York, manufacturing 
plant. Settlement between FMC and NYSDEC 
concludes litigation between the parties, places FMC 
and the community in a positive position for effective 
clean-up, and ensures the FMC Middleport plant can 
continue to operate without disruption. As the NYSDEC 
continues with its ongoing residential remediation 
activities through 2020, FMC is preparing to safely and 
successfully take over off-site clean-up work in 2021. PORTLAND HARBOR
The 1964 aerial photograph below shows the former 
FMC barge and railcar manufacturing facility located on 
the Willamette River in Portland, Oregon. FMC owned 
and operated this facility until approximately 1985 but 
it continues to be operated by other parties today.  
Due to FMC’s historical use of this property, the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency has named FMC as 
one of hundreds of “Potentially Responsible Parties” for 
the Portland Harbor Superfund Site, an approximately 
10-mile portion of the lower Willamette River. The U.S. 
EPA recently announced an objective to begin the design 
of the remedy for the entire superfund site in 2020. To 
support U.S. EPA’s goal of accelerating cleanup at the 
site, FMC voluntarily entered into an Administrative 
Order on Consent with U.S. EPA in late 2019 to perform 
remedial design for a portion of the river adjacent to 
the former FMC facility, despite the fact that the other 
parties with significant current or former operations in 
this area have not agreed to participate. Design efforts 
will begin in 2020 and will take several years to complete 
at which point U.S. EPA will negotiate new agreements 
with responsible parties to perform the remedy 
implementation. In addition to U.S. EPA, the remedial 
design will be performed under the oversight of the 
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and several 
Native American tribes. The State of Oregon and the City 
of Portland have agreed to provide partial funding. 
Contractors performing soil  
remediation at Newark site
38
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTINDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO FMC CORPORATION
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) 
to provide limited assurance in relation to the specified 2019 environmental, health and safety 
data in the 2019 FMC Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) and on https://FMCsustainability.com/
data-gri/  as set out below.
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Scope of our
assurance
engagementWhether FMC’s 2019 data for the following environmental (absolute and intensity) and safety 
indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria:
• Scope 1 GHG Emissions (from direct energy use) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based method) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Total GHG Emissions [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• GHG Intensity [Tonnes CO2e/Tonne of Production]
• Total Energy Use [KiloTerajoules]
• Energy Intensity [GJ/Tonne of Production]
• Total Water Use [Thousand Cubic Meters]
• Total High Risk Water Use [Thousand Cubic Meters]
• High Risk Water Intensity [Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production]
• Total Production [Tonnes of Production]
• Total Recordable Incident Rate [TRIR]
• Total Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Waste Disposed Intensity [Kilotonnes/Tonne of Production]
Reporting
criteriaWBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, updated 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
(excluding refrigerants and process emissions);
FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions
Assurance
standardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance 
levelLimited assurance.
Respective
responsibilitiesFMC is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation  
of the information within it.
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the 
assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
OUR CONCLUSIONS
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2019 data for the 
specified indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the 
reporting criteria.
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
Our objective was to assess whether the 2019 data for the specified indicators are reported in 
accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organization) and 
accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation).We planned and performed our work to obtain all information and explanations that we believe 
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities:
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems 
and processes (including systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and 
reporting the data for the specified indicators;
• A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors;
• Visits to three sites (Jinshan, China; Ronland, Denmark; Mobile, AL, U.S.A) and two virtual 
sites (Lahore, Pakistan; Uberaba, Brazil) to review local reporting processes and consistency 
of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We 
interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked 
calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes;
• An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy 
of the corporate data consolidation;
• Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review 
procedures and the completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the 
specified indicators from the site data; and
• A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to 
ensure consistency with our findings.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available 
methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important 
to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. Our independent assurance statement 
provides no assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used 
to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the information 
since it was first published.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers  
Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
22 May 2020
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London | www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com
ASSURANCE STATEMENT
ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY 
RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND 
IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF 
INTEREST. ERM CVS AND THE STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN WORK ON THIS ASSURANCE EXERCISE PROVIDE NO 
CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC CORPORATION IN ANY RESPECT.39
TOMORROW’S HARVESTMark A. Douglas  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Diane Allemang  
Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer
Brian P. Angeli  
Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Treasurer
William F. Chester  
Vice President, Global Tax
Barry J. Crawford  
Vice President, Operations
Kenneth A. Gedaka  
Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs
Marc L. Hullebroeck  
President, FMC EMEADavid A. Kotch  
Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Susanne M. Lingard  
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
Kyle Matthews  
Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Ronaldo Pereira  
President, FMC Americas
Nicholas L. Pfeiffer  
Vice President, Corporate Controller and  
Chief Accounting Officer
Michael F. Reilly  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance 
Officer and SecretaryAndrew D. Sandifer  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Kathleen A. Shelton, Ph.D.  
Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
Bethwyn Todd  
President, FMC Asia Pacific
Karen M. Totland, Ph.D.  
Vice President, Global Procurement, Global Facilities  
and Corporate Sustainability
Shawn R. Whitman  
Vice President, Government AffairsPierre R. Brondeau  
Executive Chairman, FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro  
Former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and 
President, Americas Region,  Cabot Corporation
Mark A. Douglas  
President and Chief Executive Officer, FMC Corporation
C. Scott Greer  
Principal, Greer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson  
Former Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Chair, 
Elevance Renewable Sciences, Inc.Dirk A. Kempthorne  
Retired President and Chief Executive Officer,  
American Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris  
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  
W. R. Grace & Co.
Margareth Øvrum  
Executive Vice President – DPB and President,  
Equinor Brazil
Robert C. Pallash  
Retired President, Global Customer Group and  
Senior Vice President, Visteon CorporationWilliam H. Powell  
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  
National Starch and Chemical Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr.  
Chairman, CEO, President and Principal,  
LeHavre Athletic ClubBOARD OF DIRECTORS
FMC OFFICERSGrapes  
Vitis vinifera40
FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
UNITED NATIONS  
GLOBAL COMPACT 
Communication on Progress
TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC’S INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT UNGC PRINCIPLES
Human RightsPrinciple 1:  Businesses should support and respect the 
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Human Rights in the Supply  
Chain training• Supplier code of conduct 
• Supplier screening process
Principle 2:  Make sure that businesses are not 
complicit in human rights abuses.• Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct
• Sexual harassment prevention campaign
LaborPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 
association and the effective recognition of the right 
to collective bargaining.• Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Principle 4:  The elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 5:  The effective abolition of child labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 6:  The elimination of discrimination in 
respect of employment and occupation.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
• FMC Employee Resource Groups• Revision of FMC policies to be  
more inclusive
• Sexual Harassment prevention campaign• D&I strategy 
• D&I training for senior leadership
• Domestic partner and transgender 
benefits (U.S.)
EnvironmentPrinciple 7:  Businesses should support a 
precautionary approach to environmental challenges.• CDP climate change module submission
• Climate change statement • Environmental risk assessments for 
agricultural products 
• Sustainability assessments for products 
in R&D pipeline• Adherence to stringent  
regulatory frameworks
Principle 8:  Undertake initiatives to promote greater 
environmental responsibility.• CDP climate change module submission
• Responsible Care• 2030 environmental goals and progress • Product Stewardship programs
Principle 9:  Encourage the development and diffusion 
of environmentally friendly technologies.• Precision agriculture
• ArcTM farm intelligence• Evalio® AgroSystems
• Plant health products• Seed treatment products
• Sustainability assessments for products 
in R&D pipeline
Anti CorruptionPrinciple 10:  Businesses should work against corruption 
in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.• Ethics on-line training course
• The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) 
compliance standard process • Training of FMC organization and FMC’s 
key third parties
• Anti-trust compliance campaign for FMC 
employees• FCPA audits 
• Code of Ethics and Business ConductFMC became a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This is our fifth 
Communication on Progress indicating our activities and management systems in support 
of the UNGC principles.
More information on our initiatives to support the UNGC principles can be found on  
www.FMCsustainability.com
WE SUPPOR T41
TOMORROW’S HARVEST
We are making ourselves as a company more 
accountable to the community - that we want 
to be sustainable. I think that is a very strong 
message, especially if you know FMC. Once we say 
we are accountable for something, we deliver.”
Jakob Kyllesbech ,  
Site Manager, FMC Corporation
Rønland, Denmark“COPYRIGHT © 2020, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.FMC Corporation
FMC Tower at Cira Centre South
2929 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19104
USA
FMC.com