2014 Sustainability ReportUser’s Guide to Reading the Report
This report provides an overview of FMC’s 2014 sustainability highlights. It complements the more detailed 
information and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index appearing online at fmcsustainability.com/gri_index. 
Together, this report and the web-based content fulfill the requirements of GRI’s 3.1 Guidelines at a self-declared 
B Application Level.
FMC operated three businesses as of December 31, 2014 – FMC Agricultural Solutions, FMC Health and 
Nutrition, and FMC Minerals. Our sustainability results reflect the performance of these businesses and, where 
indicated, the contract manufacturers working with FMC Agricultural Solutions. In 2014, we announced our 
intention to purchase Cheminova A/S, a multinational crop protection company based in Denmark, and divest 
our Alkali Chemicals business. Those transactions were completed in April 2015 and therefore are not reflected 
in this report.Our Sustainability Report
What’s in 
the Report: 
Table of Contents
When FMC began 
formal sustainability 
reporting we identified five guiding principles 
as the foundation of our commitment. In this, 
our fourth report, we have again structured our 
discussion of initiatives and results according to 
these five principles.
Online Data Center
The Data Center contains the key performance 
indicators in this report, plus additional 
data, graphs and explanatory detail. 
Online GRI Index
The Index incorporates responses to GRI 
questions as well as web links to specific 
indicator information. www.fmcsustainability.com
Fostering Safety Page 6
Page 12 Empowering Talent
Page 16 Growing Innovation
Minding Our Resources Page 22
Cultivating Community Page 28Web Link Icons 
Links to additional information are 
interspersed throughout this text. When 
you see one of these “web link” icons with 
a number inside, simply visit the URL 
above and enter the number or click on 
the link from the PDF version of our report 
to find the information you’re seeking. 
For more information about FMC sustainability, please contact Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, 
at sustainability.info @fmc.com. What’s on  
the Website: 
Detail, Data and  
GRI Index
Detailed Information 
Our sustainability website provides more information on a range of topics. We invite you to use these 
online links for additional details about significant topics. Among the topics you will find online are:
FMC Sustainability Principles
Major Global Challenges
Materiality Assessment
Stakeholder Engagement
Sustainability Governance Structure
Global Safety Standards 
Codes of Conduct and Corporate Policies3
5
74
6
8
9Community Relationships 
Support for Education 
Biodiversity
Remediation 
Economic Performance
Awards
Association Membership10
12
1411
13
15
161
2A Message from Our Chief Executive Officer
Sustainability is integral to FMC’s success. Through 
our Agricultural Solutions and Health and Nutrition 
businesses we help meet the food and nutrient needs 
of a growing world population. Our Lithium business 
addresses climate change concerns through 
advanced technology for energy storage and lighter 
weight materials for aircraft manufacturers.
In our fourth sustainability report, we critically 
evaluate our progress against the goals we set in 
2011: Safety - reduce our Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) by at least half; Innovation - invest 50 
percent of our research and development spending 
on projects that deliver a sustainability advantage; 
and Community - achieve a score of at least 90 on our 
global Community Engagement index.
Safety continues to be our top priority at FMC. Over 
the past several years, we have steadily improved 
our recordable incident rate and have been well on 
our way to achieving our goal. However, in 2014 we 
experienced a slight increase in incidents compared 
to 2013. We will focus this year on returning to the 
steady progress achieved in 2011-2013.
FMC fosters a culture of innovative thinking. I am 
pleased to report that in 2014 we surpassed our 
sustainability innovation goal and invested 74 percent 
of our R&D dollars on projects that positively impact 
the major global challenges. The impact of these 
investments is reflected in the marketplace, which 
has responded favorably as we recorded a 17 percent 
increase in sales of products with a sustainability 
advantage this year.
I am very proud that we exceeded our community 
engagement goal by achieving an index score of 
96 in 2014, a year ahead of schedule. We recognize 
the importance of being a good neighbor, doing our part as a corporate citizen, and building mutual 
understanding and solid relationships. I congratulate 
our many talented employees who took the goal 
to heart and helped to improve the welfare of the 
communities where they work and live.
2014 was a pivotal year in the transformation of 
FMC. Our goal was to achieve a greater focus as 
an agricultural, health and nutrition company. 
To accomplish this, we divested our Peroxygens 
business, prepared to sell our Alkali business 
and announced plans to acquire Cheminova, a 
global supplier of quality crop protection products. 
Cheminova shares our values and commitment to 
sustainability. We believe that with the completion 
of these portfolio changes, FMC is well equipped 
to drive sustainability for the long term. To further 
emphasize our commitment to human rights, fair 
labor, the environment and anti-corruption, FMC 
has become a signatory to the United Nations Global 
Compact.
Sustainability leadership requires a continuing 
focus and commitment to integrate sustainability 
principles into our innovation, operations, and 
business practices. We thank all of our employees 
and stakeholders who have contributed to advancing 
sustainability at FMC. Together we are embracing the 
opportunities available to us to benefit current and 
future generations. When we began our journey to accelerate and 
broaden our sustainability efforts in 2011, we 
committed to coordinate them at an enterprise 
level. As we near the end of our first goal- 
setting period we have made progress with a 
more focused approach to sustainability.
Pierre Brondeau
President, CEO and Chairman of the Board
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  1 Major Global Challenges
FMC embraces 
the opportunity to 
influence some of 
the most profound 
challenges facing 
society and our 
planet. We continually 
seek ways to apply 
our advanced 
technologies, 
innovative products 
and scientific 
capabilities to help 
make the world a 
better place today, 
tomorrow and in 
the future. Our 
businesses have a 
positive impact on:See our global challenges in action.  Organizational Profile
Insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, 
biologicals
Income Statement Data
Revenue $4,038
Cost of Sales and Services $2,663
Research & Development $   128
Adjusted After-Tax Earnings $   541
Payments to Providers of Capital
Interest $     59
Dividends $     78
$   137
Capital Additions $   2212014 Economic Highlights (in millions)
North America
$1,368 | 34%
Asia Pacific
$776 | 19%Europe, Middle East
& Africa
$559 | 14%Latin America
$1,335 | 33%Revenue by Customer Location (in millions)FMC Business 
Groups & 
Product LinesFMC Health and Nutrition
Microcrystalline cellulose, 
carrageenan, alginates, natural 
colorants, omega-3 fish oil
FMC Minerals*
Soda ash, lithium hydroxide, 
butyllithiumMain Product 
Lines
% of FMC totalFMC Agricultural Solutions
2014 Revenues $2,174 million $828 million $1,036 million
54% 21% 25%
* FMC Minerals during 2014 was comprised of two businesses: Alkali Chemicals and Lithium. Alkali Chemicals’ financial results are included in all data appearing in this 2014 
report. The sale of that business was completed on April 1, 2015 and subsequently, FMC Minerals was renamed FMC Lithium.
Food & Health  
Expectations  21A growing population will require increased food production, 
accessible healthcare and more nutritious foods to meet 
the rising expectations of an expanding middle class.
Land
Competition  22Increased agricultural efficiency will be required to 
produce crops, biofuels, biotextiles and bioplastics.Scarce
Resources
18A growing population is increasing the demand for energy, water 
and other basic resources.
Environmental
Consciousness
20There is a growing desire for increasingly safe and 
environmentally benign materials.Climate
Change
19As efforts to cope with greenhouse gas and other emissions 
become more aggressive, the impact on high-intensity industries 
will increase.17
See page 3 for 
more on framing 
our call to action 
on these major 
global challenges.
2 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW1800 18501900195020002050
Global Population
Embracing Innovation at FMCGlobal Progress
Crop productivity has 
increased by 20-50%  
since the introduction of pesticides.  
A bushel of soybeans, for example, 
can be grown on 1/3 less land today 
than 20 years ago.1
That has the potential to triple 
crop production.20 years ago Today
By aligning both product and process R&D with sustainability, we have the potential to positively 
influence these major global challenges and embrace opportunities for tomorrow. Two of our key 
innovation drivers are biologicals  and a life cycle assessment program .
Biologicals Life Cycle 
Assessment (LCA)
An LCA quantifies a specific product’s 
environmental impacts throughout 
the resource chain.PRODUCT-BASED INNOVATION PROCESS-BASED INNOVATION
Biologicals are materials derived 
from renewable plant and/or 
microbial sources that advance 
agricultural solutions.
Biologicals...
Improve soil health
Increase growth of plants
Increase crop resistance 
to stressed environmental 
conditions.Identify a potential 
sustainability 
advantage
Perform 
an LCAUse results 
to identify and 
implement 
opportunities 
for impact Almost 200,000 
fewer liters of water 
are needed to grow an acre of 
corn today compared to 20 years 
ago, thanks to conservation 
tillage practices  and improved 
pesticide application .1Reducing the 1.3 
billion tonnes of food 
wasted annually,2 by 
developing food additives that 
extend shelf life of food and 
increase stability of nutritious 
foods.
That’s enough water to hydrate 
over 60,000 people for a day. 
Adequate water intake is critical 
to good health and nutrition.10,000 hydrated peopleSource: U.S. Census Bureaurounded to the tenth of a billion
2015 Population: 7.3 billion *
People living with water 
scarcity by 2025: 1.8 billion1.1 
billion (anticipated)2.4 billion1.5 
billion6.1 billion9.4 billion
For more information on  
biologicals, see page 19.For more information on 
LCAs, see pages 18-19.2Source: Food and Agriculture Organization 
of the United Nations1Source: CropLife InternationalFraming our Call to Action
As the world’s population grows rapidly, so does the pressing demand for more food, housing, land and natural resources, 
including energy and water. We all share the need for more nutritious foods, greater access to healthcare, safe drinking water 
and a healthy planet. Our urgent call to action is to continually innovate in ways that advance food production, improve human 
health and nutrition, and respect the environment. Throughout this publication, we report on FMC’s progress in addressing 
global challenges as our sustainability journey continues with our stakeholders.
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  3 2014 Materiality Assessment  
Product Environmental Impacts MATERIAL  ISSUE PAGE # 2013 SCORE 2014 SCORE
19
10-11
16-17
14
6-11
9
2
17
10-11
28-29
1
22-27
24-27
24
26
24
4
2522-27
16-17, 2028-3314
14, 23, 279Product Safety and Effects on Human Health 
Green Chemistry and Products 
Global Food Supply 
Health and Safety 
Global Standards and Codes of Conduct 
Financial Performance 
Innovation in Products and Services 
Product Stewardship 
Public Access/Safety 
Labor Relations 
Sustainable Business Strategy 
Climate Change 
Resource Efficiency 
Brownfields 
Energy Use and Type 
Human Rights 
Procurement 
Water Use and Type Community Relations and Good Neighbor Policies 
Green Manufacturing 
Serving Emerging Markets 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Waste/By-Products/Effluents 48
48
46
43
43
42
41
40
40
40
39
393838
37
37*
37
37
37*
36
36
36
36*
3646
48
38
43
43
42
38
38
40
40
39
373837
37
34
37
36
26
36
36
36
30
36
*Asterisks indicate what became newly material in the 2014 assessmentThe chart shows our 
materiality priorities, 
changes compared to 
the previous year, and 
where they are discussed 
in this sustainability 
report. Any issue that 
scores higher than a 36 
is a material issue.
Category Key
Operations
Workplace
Environment
Marketplace
CommunityEmbracing Our Opportunities
FMC is in a unique position to 
contribute to a more sustainable world.    
FMC is dedicated to feeding the world and protecting 
the health and wellbeing of people while caring for 
our planet. We are committed to greater transparency 
about FMC’s challenges and accountability for our 
impacts, which is why we are embedding sustainability 
deeper into our organizational mindset and metrics. 
We embrace opportunities for continuous improvement 
and adding value where it is needed most. 
Materiality Process
The “materiality assessment” is a process for 
identifying the sustainability issues that are most 
important for FMC to assess, measure and report. 
To determine materiality, the cross-functional 
materiality team – comprised of representatives 
from our Sustainability, Government Affairs, Internal 
Audit, Communications, Finance and Legal groups  – 
evaluated the significance of over 60 issues relevant 
to the chemical, agricultural and mining industries. 
They assessed the significance of each issue, how the 
issue affects stakeholders’ perceptions and decisions, 
and how FMC can influence the issue. Each issue was 
scored according to five categories: financial impact 
and risk, regulatory and policy drivers, peer-based norms, stakeholder concerns and societal trends, 
and opportunities for innovation. FMC recognizes that 
we have an opportunity to improve our materiality 
assessment by expanding our incorporation of 
external stakeholder input, which we plan to do in 
2015. See the table below for more information on 
materiality.
Stakeholder Engagement
FMC’s primary stakeholders are employees and 
prospective employees, customers, suppliers, 
investors, communities, non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) and governments. We obtained 
their perspectives through one-on-one interviews 
conducted by an independent third party. Interviewers 
sought feedback on our 2013 report and input on 
concerns from a small sample of Europe- and U.S. 
based employees, customers, suppliers and NGOs. 
We undertook a similar review each of the last 
two years in order to improve the relevance of our 
sustainability reporting.
Based on stakeholders’ input, we continue to add 
data and details about our performance results 
when available. We have also made an effort to be 
more precise about our approach to environmental 
responsibility, product stewardship and how we 
address major global challenges. 
4 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWPilot a focused sustainability training program.Conducted a learning needs assessment and began development 
of a training program for FMC Health and Nutrition sales and 
marketing teams. Training will begin in mid-2015.
Complete social responsibility assessments at five sites.Completed social responsibility assessments at three sites: 
Burton-Upon-Trent, England; Girvan, Scotland; and Haugesund, 
Norway.
Train all U.S. employees in Civil Treatment Program. All U.S. employees completed the Civil Treatment program.
Validate all existing raw materials suppliers and 
significant construction contractors with FMC’s vendor 
selection and management process.With the help of a third party provider, FMC has begun to qualify 
our existing raw materials suppliers and significant construction 
contractors. This implementation will continue into 2015.
Complete Manufacturing Excellence programs at two 
additional sites: Wyoming, Illinois and Middleport,  
New York.Manufacturing Excellence program successfully completed at 
Wyoming, Illinois, site and underway at Middleport, New York, site 
with completion slated in mid-2015.
Conduct an energy assessment by the Energy 
Management Center of Excellence (EMCOE) team  
at Green River, Wyoming, FMC’s largest site.Given the April 2015 sale of the Alkali business, we did not conduct 
an EMCOE assessment at that site.
Perform a detailed waste assessment project to guide 
our strategy for waste reduction.Completed a comprehensive assessment of our waste portfolio to 
identify areas of improvement.
Integrate sustainability considerations into M&A and 
capital allocation processes. Integrated sustainability into M&A process, including the 
acquisition of Cheminova. Sustainability considerations are 
assessed during the capital allocation process, and sustainability 
is embedded in the capital deployment process.
2014 Sustainability Progress
2014 Commitments2015 Targets
Reduce our Total 
Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR) by at least 50%* 
(to < 0.37) when compared  
to 2011Increase our Global 
Community  
Engagement  
Index to > 9050% of R&D  
spend focused  
on new solutions   
that positively impact the global 
challenges
ResultsCompleted In Progress Not ApplicableTRIR of 0.51**74% of R&D spend Index increased to 962014
Results(Long-term targets, to be completed by 2015)
• Integrate FMC and Cheminova sustainability programs. 
•  Train representatives from each Cheminova 
manufacturing site on FMC sustainability reporting 
process. 
•  Establish 2020 sustainability goals and targets for 
innovation, operations and business practices. 
•  Conduct Life Cycle Assessments of five additional 
products; update the previously conducted LCAs. 
•  Complete social responsibility assessments at four sites.
•  Continue to integrate sustainability into FMC by 
joining Field to Market, a partnership for increasing 
sustainable agriculture.•  Benchmark leading sustainability practices within and 
outside the chemical industry. 
•  Conduct an assurance readiness assessment on our 
2014 Sustainability Report to prepare for external 
assurance on the 2015 Sustainability Report. 
•  Complete Manufacturing Excellence program at 
Uberaba, Brazil, FMC Agricultural Solutions site. 
•  Update Water Risk Assessment conducted in 2013 and 
include Cheminova sites.
•  Conduct an energy assessment by EMCOE at our Cork, 
Ireland, FMC Health and Nutrition facility.2015 TargetsProgress Report: Goals and Targets
*TRIR is a common metric for reporting safety performance in manufacturing.
**Our 2014 Annual Report reported that FMC reduced its overall injury rate by half, reflecting the exclusion of Alkali Chemicals.
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  5 FMC embraces continuous improvement in safety planning, preparation and 
implementation. Our systematic approach encourages careful attention to safety  
in all facets of people’s lives.
The more tangible FMC can make safety, the safer 
our employees will be. That is why we maintain a 
sharp focus on safety through our highly visible 
TH!NK. SAFE. commitment. With frequent messages 
targeting the risks employees face at work, at home, 
and on the road, we raise not only their awareness of 
hazards but also offer practical tips and solutions to 
avoid many types of incidents. 
FMC has steadily improved our recordable incident 
rate for the last five years. However, in 2014 our 
recordable incident rate did not decrease. We are 
taking specific actions to understand how we can 
continue to drive safety performance in all parts “Safety to me is all about taking care of 
people’s health and well being, regardless 
of whether the people are family, friends, 
colleagues or even people you don’t 
know. FMC has robust procedures, rules 
and Environmental, Health and Safety 
standards because ensuring the safety of 
everyone around us will always be most 
important to us.”
Increasing Safety Awareness
Building safety skills and maintaining a focused, 
attentive mindset are the foundation of our approach 
to providing a sound workplace. All manufacturing 
sites have adopted “One Plan,” our safety excellence 
framework. It includes effective in-person safety 
discussions on the shop floor, safety training in life 
critical standards, hazard and risk avoidance, and 
on-boarding programs for new employees.
John Bell,  EHS Operations Manager,  
FMC Health and Nutrition,  
Bromborough, United Kingdom
6 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWof our company. Analysis of our mid-year results 
revealed that the uptick in incidents was attributable 
in part to unsafe mindsets such as feeling stressed, 
tired, frustrated, overconfident or rushed. To 
empower employees to become more aware of their 
state of mind and the potential risks associated with 
it, we launched a video and poster series highlighting 
a range of situations that affect safety and suggesting 
simple actions that help avoid incidents.
With TH!NK. SAFE. as a springboard for ongoing 
safety conversations, we believe that our efforts to 
communicate and implement creative and impactful 
approaches to safety awareness will lead to better 
long-term performance. 
Sharing Knowledge for Improved Performance
Strong leadership and increased cooperation across 
our manufacturing operations have led to greater 
sharing of experience, skills and successes. This has 
enabled us to leverage knowledge and incorporate 
best practices more readily.
Our Minera del Altiplano (MdA), FMC Lithium facility in 
Argentina dramatically improved safety performance when 
its leadership focused on developing and implementing a 
rigorous new safety One Plan. Implementation included:
•  A highly disciplined approach to increasing dialogue 
about human behavior and staying safe. Identification 
of and communication about the “five critical 
behaviors” that most frequently lead to incidents –  
a best practice previously employed at FMC’s 
Green River, Wyoming, site – has raised safety 
consciousness at every level of the organization.
Focused on Reducing our Total Recordable Incident Rate
2014 2013 2012 2011.73
2015 
Goal.59
.41.512011 2012 2013 2014
Total Recordable  
Incident Rate (TRIR)0.73 0.59 0.41 0.51
Lost Workday Case 
Incidence Rate0.28 0.18 0.11 0.19
Work-related fatalities 1 0 0 0
Number of significant 
process safety incidents 
(defined as American 
Chemistry Council tier 1 
& 2)0 0 0 0
The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is a standard 
measure of occupational safety that is calculated as the 
number of injuries divided by the number of man-hours 
worked, normalized to 200,000 hours per year.TRIR
23
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  7 •  Engaging all front line leaders at MdA in a hands-on 
training program that focused on the principles 
and culture of a safe workplace. The program was 
so successful that it was also rolled out at the 
Bessemer City, North Carolina, facility.
•  Cross-fertilization of technical skills and knowledge 
between operations. Engineers from the Green 
River, Wyoming, Alkali operation visited MdA to 
work side by side with FMC Lithium engineers on 
process engineering and safety assessments. This 
collaboration led to increased transparency, open 
communications and improved problem solving 
across our FMC Minerals organization. 
•  Analysis of near-miss reporting to identify focus 
areas before they become recordable injuries.
We emphasize safety best practices throughout FMC. 
 •  Thirteen of FMC Health and Nutrition’s 15 
manufacturing facilities were injury-free in 2014. 
Our goal is a perfect record and we are building on 
best practices from every part of our organization. 
These include the hands-on interaction of senior 
leaders with workers within the plant and our 
emphasis on safety awareness during the integration 
of acquired companies. 
•  FMC Agricultural Solutions had the lowest 
recordable incident rate of all our operating 
businesses. A major contributing factor was the 
implementation of six new safety standards and the 
assessment of non-standard tasks. 
Our safety practices dictate that any incident that 
occurs is followed by a thorough investigation into 
identifying root causes and future preventative measures.
•  We conducted a thorough incident investigation 
for a fire at the Middleport, New York, facility. Safety and Gloves Go  
Hand in Hand
The success of the Glove Use Standard is 
tangible. Designed to reduce hand injuries 
and guide employees in the selection and 
use of gloves for specific tasks, the Standard 
stipulates that gloves must be worn by all 
personnel, contractors and visitors within all 
manufacturing process areas, maintenance 
areas, site work areas, warehouses, and labs.
As part of the initiative, FMC sites evaluated 
the types of gloves needed for employees to 
perform specific jobs. For example, working 
with sharp sheet metal requires thick gloves, 
while carpenters use more pliable leather 
gloves that protect against cuts and bruises. 
In tandem with this Standard, an Open Blade 
Standard was established to limit employee 
exposure to cuts.
Together the two initiatives have yielded solid 
results. In 2013 there were 10 hand injuries 
out of 31 total recordable injuries. In 2014 
there were just three hand injuries out of 38 
total recordable injuries.
Our annual survey of TH!NK. SAFE.’s effectiveness showed 
very positive engagement in the program, including: 
98 percent  of our 
employees were 
familiar with it and 
growing numbers 
of employees 
understood and 
were acting on the 
safety messages.Nearly 75 percent  
of employees 
have discussed 
TH!NK. SAFE. 
with friends and 
family.Nearly 85 percent   
think the campaign  
has strengthened 
our culture of 
safety. 90 percent  of 
our people report 
openly discussing 
safety concerns.In the non-manufacturing  
workforce, there was an  
11 percent increase,  from  
71 to 82 percent, in those who  
found it relevant. This result  
indicates the value of FMC’s 
inclusive approach to protection  
of all employees, contractors and  
guests at all facilities globally.98% 75% 85% 90%11%
8 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWFortunately, no one was injured in this incident. 
We are assembling and assessing the learnings 
from the incident and will implement a plan 
to avoid any similar event from reoccurring in 
Middleport or at any of our operations.
•  Unfortunately, four FMC employees were injured 
in 2014 in an automobile accident. The safety 
standard of the vehicle, as well as seat belt use 
and good driving practices, minimized injuries, 
allowing all people to recover fully. As a result, 
FMC analyzed our entire fleet of company 
vehicles and found they meet or exceed the safety 
standards of the vehicle involved in the accident. 
We are also modifying our travel and safety 
policies to establish mandates for rental vehicles 
to ensure that they meet the highest standards 
established by the National Transportation Safety 
Board. The goal is to protect our people from 
unsafe drivers and other road and transportation 
risks.
We introduced a Risk Tolerance Model on a worldwide 
basis to enable us to determine where there are 
unacceptable safety gaps. Every facility is now 
responsible for assessing safety risk in terms of:
•  Identification of a hazard: “Do I recognize the risk?”
•  Understanding and evaluating the risk of an 
incident: “Do I understand the risk?”
•  Determining whether the level of risk warrants 
corrective action: “Do I accept the risk?”
FMC recognizes the right of employees to engage 
in collective bargaining and works closely with our 
union partners on safety at several locations globally. 
For example, at our Middleport, New York, FMC 
Agricultural Solutions site, union and plant leaders 
meet monthly as a joint management team and joint 
EHS team.Implementing Standards of Excellence
When establishing safety standards, FMC takes a global 
perspective and considers the external social and 
political environment of our people and communities. 
Even in countries that have fewer regulatory requirements,  
we apply universal safety requirements for key life 
critical tasks in our operations.
Our Management of Change Standard requires FMC’s 
manufacturing operations to follow a formal, written 
protocol when making process, quality or organizational 
changes. Its purpose is to ensure that changes are 
properly identified, evaluated, approved, implemented 
and documented. Implementation of the Standard 
began in 2014 with gap assessments in site procedures.
We are an active member of the American Chemistry 
Council (ACC), and in 2014 our CEO, Pierre Brondeau, 
was selected to serve as president of the organization. He 
will maintain this board leadership role through 2015. 
The new ACC Responsible Care® Process Safety Code 
includes a “company commitment to set process 
safety expectations, define accountability for process 
safety performance and allocate adequate resources to 
achieve performance expectations.”1 After revising our 
corporate process safety program in 2014, FMC will 
conduct a gap assessment in 2015 and develop a plan 
for each operating site to fill any identified gaps. 
FMC wants its sites to be as safe as possible for all 
workers. We issued a Contractor Safety Standard for 
the selection and management of contract companies 
and their employees while working at an FMC facility. 
Meeting the Standard has been integrated into 
Capital Deployment Process considerations, and 
contractors are required to be fully compliant with the 
requirements by early 2015. One Plan
FMC’s safety excellence framework has three guiding principles:
EVERYONE IS 
INVOLVED AND 
ENGAGED –   
IN REDUCING  
INJURIESEACH OF US WILL 
RE-THINK RISK IN 
EVERYTHING WE DO –   
TO LOWER 
OUR RISK 
TOLERANCEWE WILL INCREASE 
TRAINING AND 
DEVELOPMENT –   
TO CONSISTENTLY 
ACHIEVE BEST 
PRACTICES
1American Chemistry Council Process Safety CodeFMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  9 These standards complement the priorities addressed 
in our upgraded safety programs and ongoing TH!NK. 
SAFE. awareness campaign. In combination, we expect 
our multi-faceted efforts to continually drive us toward 
a safer workplace and lifestyle. 
Fostering Product Stewardship
Responsible product stewardship is a significant facet 
of FMC’s safety commitment. It is integral to our value 
chain relationships, as we go beyond our own strict 
protocols to ensure that customers are trained and up-
to-date on requirements and best practices in handling, 
usage, transport and disposal of any hazardous product. 
As partners with our customers, we encourage them to 
raise questions and bring any issues to our attention so 
we can promptly address them.
In 2014, FMC confirmed with ACC our implementation 
of the first three elements of the Product Safety Code 
of Management Practices: leadership commitment, 
accountability and management, and prioritization 
of products. The Product Safety Code provides 
Management Practices so that companies can 
“evaluate, demonstrate and continuously improve 
their product safety performance, while also making 
information about chemical products available to 
the public.” In conjunction with our Responsible 
Care commitment, we will implement the remaining 
management practices in 2015 and 2016. 
Our FMC Agricultural Solutions business assesses 
risks throughout each product’s life cycle. All FMC 
products have undergone significant scientific testing 
and analysis of possible impacts on public health and 
the environment. This testing is followed by stringent 
regulatory approval processes in all countries where 
our products are sold. 
There are some areas where farmers may be less 
familiar with proper usage protocols. This is why FMC Agricultural Solutions is expanding training 
programs in several regions around the world and 
improving our assessments of exposure incidents. 
In 2014, we:
•   Continued to provide training to approximately 
250 distributors and retailers in China, Indonesia, 
India and several countries in Europe and Latin 
America on best practices in agriculture and 
responsible product use.
•  Joined the chemical emergency call system for 
transportation, handling and exposure incidents 
in China.
•  Increased the total number of growers receiving 
hazardous material training by over 40 percent in 
Brazil and Mexico, and launched a mobile phone 
application in Brazil to provide rapid updates on 
safety data sheets. 
•  Conducted a Process Risk Analysis and Training 
program for contract manufacturers on five new 
products being introduced in Latin America.
 
FMC is committed to proper product stewardship throughout 
our entire value chain. Here, Elenice Franco, FMC sales 
representative, works with a potato grower in Brazil. 
10 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW•  Conducted outreach to 18,000 children through 
various training programs in Latin American farming 
communities to help them understand that chemicals 
are not for play and to educate their parents about 
secure storage and responsible use. 
Over the past several years, FMC has reduced the 
number of countries where Furadan is sold by two 
thirds. Over the next five years, our plan is to continue to 
reduce the number of countries where we sell this older 
broad spectrum insecticide and replace it with newer, 
more sustainable products. We are also upgrading the 
stewardship programs in countries that still use Furadan 
due to a lack of viable alternative products. 
In North America we reinforced our product stewardship 
with commitments including:
•  CropLife Stewardship First, an initiative from CropLife 
America in which FMC has committed to the guiding 
principles on container management, warehouse 
accreditation and responsible use education.
•  The “Guide to Seed Treatment Stewardship,” an 
industry effort in conjunction with the American 
Seed Trade Association and CropLife America in 
which FMC provides support for training materials to 
promote the safe handling and use of treated seeds. 
Product stewardship for the FMC Lithium business 
involves maintenance of strong regulatory compliance 
systems and upgrades as well. The newest product in 
our Lithium pipeline is Stabilized Lithium Metal Powder 
(SLMP), a highly volatile substance for which we have 
extensive handling and storage protocols for ourselves 
and everyone who comes in contact with the product. 
Many of our FMC Health and Nutrition products are 
derived from seaweed. These products connect us closely 
with the world’s oceans and provide a strong business 
rationale for conscientious resource management. To 
ensure a healthy marine environment and supply of 
seaweed, we work with seaweed harvesters and our 
suppliers on production methods that verify marine life 
is not disrupted, protect the environment and sustain 
the community. In Norway we helped launch a trawling 
rotation system at the start of our seaweed supply chain. 
We are further developing best practices for sustainable 
seaweed through a program in partnership with the New 
England Aquarium. 
Our FMC Health and Nutrition business is implementing 
numerous changes to comply with evolving regulations. 
These include the requirements of Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals 
(REACH), Classification, Labeling and Packaging (CLP) 
and Globally Harmonized System (GHS). In addition 
to the numerous data sheets and labeling changes 
needed for our products, we are updating package labels 
for all products containing combustible dust for 2015 
compliance. For more information on FMC’s efforts to 
protect biodiversity, see       .Carrageenan, a soluble fiber derived from red seaweed, is a natural food ingredient that has been safely consumed for 
hundreds of years. In 2014, carrageenan reached a milestone when it was identified as an acceptable ingredient in infant 
foods. The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives, an international expert scientific committee under 
the auspices of the United Nations, concluded that the use of carrageenan in infant formula at concentrations up to 
1000mg/L is not of concern. This conclusion shows great confidence in the safety of this substance.
Reinforcing the safety message, the World Health Organization has placed carrageenan in the best possible 
category for food additives. Regulatory authorities in every region of the world agree about carrageenan’s safety. 
Countries including the U.S. also have approved its use in organic foods.Nature-Based Carrageenan: Safe for Infants
Stephen Sutton, Operator Mechanic II at FMC Lithium 
in Bessemer City, North Carolina, checks proper fit of 
his aluminized suit and additional personal protective 
equipment for work in a metal dispersion area. 24
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  11 FMC embraces continual development of a vibrant, well-rounded workforce  
as we evolve and grow. Ongoing training and involvement in new experiences  
helps people build the skills needed for success.
To facilitate our building talent from within, we piloted three 
new or enhanced talent management programs in 2014: 
•  A new approach to Talent Reviews allows us to 
evaluate the depth and breadth of our employees 
at every level of our organization. Built to sustain a 
disciplined and standardized approach globally, we 
can better identify individual development needs and 
potential organizational issues, and then take the 
necessary actions to build solid talent pipelines. The 
process ensures that we have succession plans in 
place for leaders and are strengthening our company 
for the future.“My FMC colleagues were so supportive of 
my pursuit of an MBA that I couldn’t wait 
to give back! I jumped at the chance to 
encourage W.B. Saul High School’s diverse 
student population to build careers in the 
agriculture industry and was delighted by 
their receptivity to the range of rewarding 
opportunities in this field.”
Building Competencies, Advancing Expertise
FMC encourages our people to develop the enhanced 
skill sets that are required now and in the future. 
Our global talent management strategy is evolving 
and incorporates key elements of success to enable 
development, performance and career satisfaction. 
We support educational and experiential learning 
opportunities including participation in industry 
organizations and conferences, as well as continuing 
education and certification classes. Rashida Mark , Financial Analyst,  
FMC Agricultural Solutions, Philadelphia,  
Pennsylvania, United States
12 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW•  Strategic Leadership was a two-and-a-half day 
pilot development program for director-level 
employees. Participants engaged in group and 
individual exercises, short lecture sessions, 
webinars and one-on-one coaching. Topics 
included leading change, global effectiveness and 
“authentic” leadership. The program concluded 
with insights from FMC’s CEO. We are assessing 
the experience and content to improve future 
leadership development programs.
•  The 360° Development Feedback process was 
also piloted in late 2014 with a small number 
of employees. This process was used to solicit 
developmental feedback from diverse stakeholders 
beyond the supervisor and included peers, direct 
reports and external customers. Participants 
received specific development suggestions from 
approximately 15 colleagues. In 2015 we will 
explore a broader rollout of this process . 
This year, we reinforced our global perspective by 
harmonizing grade levels around the world. This new, 
universally consistent approach helps FMC enhance 
career mobility across geographies. 
In addition to the benefits of structured development 
processes, FMC recognizes that employee learning 
takes place in everyday, on-the-job situations. As 
a result of the recent acquisitions, divestitures and 
other organizational changes at FMC, our employees 
have been exposed to many new experiences. For 
some, the changes represent positive opportunities 
to interact with and learn from new people, functions 
and organizations. For others, the shifts have been 
more challenging. We continually work to mitigate 
the inherent uncertainties that accompany change 
through multiple broad and targeted channels. 
Voluntary Turnover Rate
2012 2013 2014
Globally 5.0% 6.1% 6.2%
Non-Exempt 5.9% 8.4% 7.5%
Hourly 2.3% 2.7% 2.1%
Exempt 5.9% 6.4% 7.4%Global Workforce by Region
12%
19%
27%42%
       KEY
  North America
  Latin AmericaNon-exempt population: employees within a specific grade level range 
who are salaried but eligible for overtime pay. 
Hourly population: employees who are paid based on a per-hour rate.
Exempt population: employees who are salaried.Voluntary resignations, divided by average 
total number of employees5,600 employees globally
  Asia Pacific
   Europe, Middle East & Africa
25
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  13 stages of their careers. Recruiting and retaining 
millennial employees is highly competitive and it 
is an area where FMC is increasing its attention 
and investment.
•  Civil Treatment Training, a program that focuses 
on diversity sensitivity and harassment avoidance. 
Launched in the U.S. with all employees being 
trained in 2014, the curriculum is being adapted 
for implementation in other regions and will be 
required of every member of our global workforce.
Our responsibility extends beyond FMC’s door, which is 
why we added a supply chain-focused Human Dignity 
training program to our curriculum. Our goal is to 
ensure that FMC only works with responsible suppliers. 
Employees are being taught how to identify and respond 
to potential human rights violations in areas such as 
human trafficking, forced labor and inappropriate wages 
or working hours. It was rolled out corporate-wide in 
2014, with expected completion in first quarter 2015. 
To overcome talent shortages in STEM (science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics) fields, 
especially in agriculture, several of our community 
programs and on-site internships foster relationships 
with students who have potential to enter STEM careers. 
In the summer of 2014, for example, several college 
students gained valuable experience as interns in our 
FMC Agricultural Solutions business.Highlighting Diversity and Respect
Attracting women and minorities to our workforce is 
a priority. In order to attract and retain this talent pool 
we must differentiate FMC as an employer of choice 
and ensure that these constituents feel supported and 
valued.
FMC is addressing this head on by adding diversity 
measurements to our success standards. As we 
analyze the metrics and trends, we are identifying ways 
to achieve our goal of creating and sustaining a more 
diverse workforce. Our tracking now includes:
•  Quarterly reviews with the executive team and 
business leaders to measure how many people 
meeting diversity criteria were interviewed for 
available positions.
•  Measuring the population of women in our exempt 
(salaried) workforce worldwide on a quarterly 
basis. 
•  Tracking the population of people of color in the 
exempt workforce quarterly in the U.S. 
 
To better serve the needs of our employees, we 
launched several initiatives that support a more 
welcoming environment. They include:
•   Women’s Initiative Network, an affinity 
group whose purpose is to support women’s 
professional growth and FMC’s success (see 
sidebar on page 15 for more information).
•  Lunch with Millennials, an informal opportunity 
for peer-to-peer knowledge-sharing under the 
guidance of senior professionals. This initial 
endeavor reinforces our focus on people at early FMC’s increasing social media presence has broadened our appeal and increased our outreach to stakeholders,
including prospective employees. FMC job vacancies are posted on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook.We Are Connected – 2014 FMC Social Media Review
twitter.com/fmccorp
Launched December 11, 2014
youtube.com/fmccorpcomm
Launched June 23, 2014facebook.com/FMCCorporation
Gained 2,240 followers in 2014
linkedin.com/company/fmc-corporation 
Gained 16,030 followers in 2014
296%
increase
63%
increase28
2926
27
14 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWFMC’s Women’s Initiative Network (WIN) was formed in 2014 by women at 
senior levels of the company and is open to women at all stages of their  
careers. WIN’s purpose is to help women develop leadership skills and  
share information to drive FMC’s success. This affinity group will play an  
important role in enabling the company to cultivate and advance women in  
our organization. 
WIN is comprised of four working groups, including: Leading Women, Work/Life Integration, Mentoring and Networking, 
and Career Management. Leveraging the collective knowledge of women across the organization, these groups 
are developing programs for mentoring, employee recruitment and retention, career development and cultural 
awareness. 
FMC’s female workforce in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Newark, Delaware; and Ewing, New Jersey, have 
participated in several WIN sessions. Several members have said that the newly formed network is already 
facilitating their engagement with people beyond their own functional areas and providing new opportunities to tap 
into a broader base of knowledge and experience. 
In 2015, WIN events will include: a panel discussion with leading women in the organization, a pilot mentoring 
program, and breakfasts with topics such as networking and work-life integration. Through these and other events, 
WIN will serve as a development catalyst for female leadership across FMC. Based on our experience in 2015, we will 
explore ways to help local WIN chapters flourish globally across FMC.FMC Women, WINning Together
Women In Management
2013 2014
Percentage of women employed 
at FMC23.7% 25%
Women in professional roles*25.8% 26.3%
Women in senior management*21.3% 21.3%
Professional roles are defined by certain types of responsibilities or requirements, 
such as independent judgment and decision making that impact the business.
Senior management roles are those that have significant responsibility to oversee 
and direct a functional discipline or business area within FMC.*Exempt Workforce
Part of FMC Lithium’s quality assurance team in Bessemer 
City, North Carolina, are (left to right): Hui-Li Yang, research 
chemist III; Sandra Wingate, QA lab technician; and Alma 
Lindsay, senior research chemist.
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  15 FMC embraces innovations that enable us to make a positive difference.  
Our technologies help increase crop yields, protect health, enhance nutrition 
and improve the environment.
Addressing Food Security Concerns
The United Nations estimates that nearly 870 
million people, or one in eight, suffer from chronic 
undernourishment today. Eighty-five percent of these 
people reside in developing nations. With the global 
population expected to increase by 25 percent in the 
next 35 years, not only will many more people need 
to be fed, but there will be less farmland available for 
cultivation due to urbanization. Climate change will 
continue to have significant agricultural implications 
making the current food scarcity situation even more 
severe.“How does the Latin America Innovation 
Center help FMC Agricultural Solutions 
customers? Every day we explore new products 
and applications to increase productivity and reduce 
environmental impact. Our criteria require that 
new FMC products have a sustainability advantage, 
meet high safety standards and are supported with 
appropriate training in handling and disposal.”
Fernanda Nobre , Formulation and Development Analyst, 
Latin America Innovation Center, Campinas, Brazil
870 million people worldwide,  
or 1 in 8, suffer from chronic 
undernourishment
16 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWIncreased agricultural productivity and greater 
access to nutritious diets are among the solutions 
needed to address food scarcity issues. Our focus 
is on understanding the needs and challenges of 
farmers as well as consumer companies that develop 
necessary food staples, energy solutions and health 
care products while preserving scarce environmental 
resources.
In agriculture, our innovations enable farmers to 
protect their crops and overcome insects, weeds and 
fungi that can seriously compromise their harvests. We 
do this responsibly, with products and processes that 
allow fruits, vegetables and grain crops to be grown 
to maturity. More abundant crop growth contributes 
to greater availability of food, and for many farmers it 
means a more sustainable livelihood. 
FMC’s naturally derived food ingredients enhance 
nutritional value, taste, texture and shelf life of diverse 
foods. These characteristics are important in meeting 
the demands of a more urbanized society and growing 
middle class by increasing the choice, convenience 
and longevity of many foods. As the urban middle 
class grows, FMC is also working on innovative energy 
solutions that enable fuel-efficient vehicles and a 
renewable energy supply for an increased population.
Enhancing Food and Nutrient Availability
FMC Agricultural Solutions
FMC’s Latin America Innovation Center opened in 
Campinas, Brazil, in 2014. It is our fourth Innovation 
Center, complementing our existing research 
and development (R&D) centers in Ewing, New 
Jersey; Shanghai, China; and Bangalore, India. The 
Latin America facility is the only center dedicated 
completely to the FMC Agricultural Solutions 
business. Over 50 percent of the space is dedicated 
to state-of-the-art laboratories which will initially 
In 2014, we had a 17% increase in 
R&D spend targeted to impact major 
global challenges.R&D Spend
201136%2015 Goal
2012 2013 201447%57%74%Sustainable Product Sales
In 2014, we had a 17.5% increase in sales of 
sustainable products. A “sustainable product” 
is one that impacts one or more of the global 
challenges.
+17.5%
2013 2014
30
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  17 FMC Agricultural Solutions launched over 75 new 
products in 2014 that are defined as sustainable 
based on our Product Stewardship and Sustainability 
Assessment (PSSA) evaluation. These products 
are being used in Asia, Europe, Latin America and 
North America and contribute significantly to our 
“sales of sustainable products” metric. Since 2011 
we have used this formal PSSA tool to measure 
the impact of any new product or project under 
consideration. In 2014, FMC Agricultural Solutions 
upgraded its assessment tool to improve the rigor 
of its evaluation process. Based on feedback from 
the R&D teams that use the tool, questions were 
modified and improved to enhance the consistency 
of worldwide analysis. 
To monitor the reduction of our products’ impact over 
time, our company conducted Life Cycle Assessments 
(LCAs) on the active ingredients sulfentrazone 
and clomazone, which appear in many of our key 
agricultural products. Evaluation of the LCA results 
is proceeding throughout 2015 and will inform the 
direction of future R&D efforts.
FMC Health and Nutrition
We are satisfying consumer demand for more natural 
ingredients in food and health products by continually 
seeking ways to take the greatest advantage of natural, 
renewable raw materials. This year we developed 
and implemented a new process for increasing the 
yield of the omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) extracted 
from sustainably managed anchovy populations by 
15-20 percent. High concentrations of EPA and DHA 
are desired for their positive impact on cognitive and 
cardiovascular health. This new process enhances 
concentration levels of omega-3s and enables FMC 
to recover more EPA and DHA without generating any 
additional waste streams.focus on R&D for pesticides. Within two years we 
anticipate completing the addition of a microbiology 
laboratory for research into biological solutions. 
FMC is investigating product concepts using stand-
alone biological solutions as well as combinations of 
biologicals with synthetic chemicals. The use of both 
solutions in tandem can provide increased plant, 
pest and/or disease protection, and give farmers 
access to integrated plant management programs.
New biological product offerings are on the horizon. 
These products contribute to increased crop yields 
while reducing environmental impact. One product 
combines a soil insecticide used in U.S. corn 
production with a bio-stimulant to improve plant 
growth. The second product combines a biologically 
based fungicide to co-exist with synthetic fungicides 
providing exceptional plant protection. These 
products will be introduced into the marketplace in 
the next two years.
In 2014, we launched the 3RIVE 3D™ system which 
includes a new formulation and a new delivery system. 
This system allows in-furrow product application, or 
application directly into the soil with the seed, which 
provides advantages to farmers, including seedling 
defense and yield enhancement as well as more efficient 
use of product. The 3RIVE 3D application, an elastic foam, 
allows a grower to treat about 480 acres without stopping. 
This significant improvement in acres treated without 
stopping results in saving water, fuel, labor and time 
compared to current systems in the market.FMC Innovation Technology
Fernanda Teixeira, communication manager, FMC Agricultural 
Solutions in Brazil, speaks at the inaugural ceremony for the 
Latin America Innovation Center in Campinas, Brazil – FMC’s 
fourth global facility of its kind and the first devoted solely to 
agriculture.
FMC Agricultural Solutions produced a brief video 
describing the innovative features of 3RIVE 3D, viewable  
at www.tinyurl.com/nnrs69q.
18 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWWhat are biological products? Biologicals are materials derived from renewable plant or microbial sources.
What makes microbes (or bacteria) an ecologically sound starting point for R&D? Bacteria are incredibly 
abundant in the ground. There are up to 10,000 bacterial species and over 100 million bacterial cells per gram of 
soil in and around plant roots.1 Just like the microbes in our bodies, micro-organisms have similar beneficial roles 
in plants. Micro-organisms live in and on the plants, on the roots and in the soil, where they maintain a synergistic 
relationship with their “plant hosts.” These microbes impart benefits such as faster seed germination, increased 
root development and uptake of water and nutrients, and increased plant vigor, biomass production, fruit growth, 
disease protection and resilience against conditions such as frost and drought. 
How does FMC find specific microbes of interest for crop protection? At FMC’s Center of Excellence for 
Agricultural Biosolutions at Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, we have isolated over 2,100 strains of bacteria 
for study, determining their potential beneficial performance through the Center’s advanced screening process. 
Strains of interest progress into more extensive field screening before moving into large-scale field trials. 
What are the advantages of using biologicals in agricultural chemical products? Biologicals improve soil health, 
foster seed germination, increase growth of plants, allow for better management of nutrients, fight diseases and 
insects, and increase crops’ resistance under stressed environmental conditions. When certain biological material 
is combined with smaller doses of one or more chemicals, they can offer multiple modes of action, including the 
natural ability to respond to specific threats. When used as a part of integrated pest management, biologicals can 
help to decrease the risk of resistance against major chemical active ingredients.
Why is it necessary to use any crop protection chemicals when planting? Biological and synthetic-based chemicals 
are highly effective in protecting crops from disease, pests and weeds. Their use can also increase crop quality and 
yield. This is important because the world’s growing population is experiencing food shortages that will only increase 
in severity as population grows. According to the United Nations World Food Program2, feeding a global population 
that is projected to reach 9 billion by 2050 will require that agricultural yields increase by 70-100 percent. 
What is the difference between biologicals and genetic modification?  In genetically modified crops, the DNA is 
modified to introduce a new trait to the plant that does not occur naturally. In the development of FMC’s agricultural 
biologicals, there is no modification of the plant’s or the microbe’s genetic structure. We are drawing upon nature’s 
natural potential to create solutions to improve plant health and productivity.
Who stands to gain from the use of biologicals? Consumers will see safer, more environmentally friendly options. 
Growers will gain new modes of action, little or no residues and better yields. 
What is the future of biologically derived active ingredients in agriculture? Growers of fruits, vegetables, and row 
crops such as corn, wheat, soybeans, cotton and rice are seeking more environmentally friendly chemical solutions. 
Biologicals will also be increasingly used in private homes and gardens as well as professional applications 
including golf courses and landscaping.Biologicals Explained
1Source: American Society for Microbiology, How Microbes can Help Feed the World
2Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, The State of the World’s Land and Water Resources for Food and Agriculture Assessing the Cumulative Impacts Across the Lifespan of Our Products
FMC  
Manufacturing  
SiteTransport RAW MATERIALS
• Waste  
• Water  
• Energy Waste OutputEmissions
Final ProductTo better understand the collective impact of our products, FMC is conducting Life Cycle Assessments of its portfolio of 
customer solutions. By understanding the role of each individual step in the life cycle of each product, from raw materials 
to manufacture to use, we are better able to address the primary components of the product’s overall impact. Such 
assessments also provide opportunities to collaborate across the value chain. We work with suppliers and customers to 
understand environmental effects, whether they involve energy efficiency at the manufacturing stage, specific materials 
used or other key drivers of impact.
H2O  
InputTo End
User
Resource InputTransport
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  19 Additionally, FMC is working to enhance nutrient 
availability in all geographies. In 2014, we began 
developing a new form of our SeaGel™ capsules that 
will be used for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical 
products that are free of bovine material. This 
product, available in 2015, makes nutraceuticals and 
pharmaceuticals available to consumers around the 
world who choose not to consume bovine materials for 
religious, dietary or others reasons.
In 2014 we also launched Epax 1050 TGN, a high DHA 
omega-3 product made from completely tuna-free 
fish sources. By eliminating tuna oils, this product is 
responsive to global concerns about the decline of 
the tuna population. 
Our natural food and beverage color business 
consists of nine different hues. These are blended 
into many different products for our customers, and 
approximately 80 percent of those natural colors are 
derived from agricultural-based materials, such as 
fruits, vegetables and algae. Used in food products 
including soups, drinks, gelatin and confectionery 
items, natural colors not only add aesthetic appeal 
but also meet consumer desire for products from 
naturally derived sources. 
In 2014, we added a natural color manufacturing 
line at our Newark, Delaware, facility to answer 
increasing customer requests for rapid development 
of proprietary formulations and logistical support 
for swift delivery. The facility, which will be equipped 
to develop customized color solutions, enables 
us to capitalize on our advantage in food color 
customization. We will be better positioned to serve 
our worldwide customers through this increased 
capacity in North America. The Newark natural colors 
operations began in early 2015. Food science – the study of the physical, 
biological and chemical composition of food and 
the practical application of the findings – helps 
feed a growing population worldwide. It involves 
maintaining and even enhancing the nutrients, 
taste, texture and longevity of foods under 
certain conditions. This, in turn, enables us 
to address some of the world’s most pressing 
problems, beginning with working to meet the 
basic nutrition needs of people everywhere.
FMC food technology helps deliver vital 
nutrients in infant formulas, nut milks, yogurts 
and other products in a consistent way. It 
also keeps products stable in fluctuating 
temperatures, which can be a serious challenge 
as products are transported to markets in 
developing economies. Advanced technology 
behind FMC food science helps feed the world’s 
growing and hungry population. 
FMC leverages sound science to take the 
greatest advantage of available nutrients, 
enable foods to last longer, make good 
ingredients better and ensure the safety 
of every ingredient. Through extensive 
experimentation, rigorous regulatory reviews 
and ongoing testing and observation, we 
control the quality and integrity of our food 
ingredients to ensure they have broad and safe 
applications.
Because food matters to everyone, FMC launched 
a website to explain how research into food 
enhancements leads to a safe and healthy food 
supply. Explore food science at:  
www.foodsciencematters.com.Food Science Matters
FMC Health and Nutrition research technologists 
leverage food science to help our customers respond 
to consumer choice and demand. For example, our 
customers sought to replace palm oil with sunflower 
oil in their confectionery foods, but faced challenges 
with texture and stability. FMC research scientists 
developed a new formulation of our Avicel® texturizers 
that allow these manufacturers to use sunflower oil while 
preserving consistency and remaining cost-neutral.Responding to Consumer Preferences
Shane Lewis, process operator at the FMC Health and 
Nutrition plant in Newark, Delaware, removes a sample of 
Avicel® for quality assurance testing.
20 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWFMC Minerals Contributes to a Healthier 
Environment
FMC Minerals’ innovations are fostering a lower 
environmental footprint and, as a result, a healthier 
community. FMC Lithium, a world leader in Lithium 
production, and FMC Alkali Chemicals, the largest 
producer of natural soda ash, partner with customers 
to develop products with greater sustainability value. 
Both groups are also investigating and implementing 
lower impact manufacturing processes. 
FMC Lithium’s contributions to a more sustainable 
environment are applications using:
•  Lithium metal to develop an aluminum-lithium 
alloy. We work with major aluminum companies 
to meet airline manufacturers’ stringent materials 
requirements, and have shown that deployment 
of this new alloy material is stronger and lighter 
weight than aluminum alone. By reducing weight 
and improving corrosive resistance, aircrafts can 
be approximately 10 percent more fuel efficient. 
•  Lithium hydroxide to further electric vehicle 
technology. The use of hydroxide in lithium ion 
batteries provides extended driving ranges and better 
battery life while maintaining safety and increasing 
performance. In addition to its use in electric vehicle 
batteries, emerging technologies are using lithium 
hydroxide to develop long-term storage of renewable 
energy from sources including wind and solar. 
•  Butyllithium is used to create polymers used for 
“green tires.” Made with our lithium material, 
these advanced tires reduce fuel use and noise, 
and improve wet tire traction. We are working 
hard to reduce production process waste. This 
year we improved production yields and enhanced 
manufacturing efficiencies and we will continue to 
pursue improvements to meet the growing demand 
for butyllithium.Our FMC Lithium operations team enhanced energy 
efficiency with a process innovation that uses a 
proprietary material to extract lithium. At our 
Minera del Altiplano, Argentina, plant this selective 
absorption production process was modified and is 
already delivering improved efficiency and productivity. 
This modification should result in a 5 to 10 percent 
reduction in energy use once fully implemented.
Among environmental innovations piloted by our 
FMC Alkali Chemical operations in 2014 was testing 
of in-mine directional drilling. As the first company 
to apply this technology in a trona mine, we sought 
to increase the concentration of soda ash in the 
solutions we extracted, reuse more water and use 
less energy. 
Roger Goforth, material handler, checks the metal in a reactor 
at the FMC Lithium site in Bessemer City, North Carolina.Our lithium metal is part of the lithium aluminum alloy used to manufacture a popular U.S. commercial airliner, increasing 
the plane’s fuel efficiency by approximately 10 percent, reducing its weight by 6 percent and increasing corrosion resistance. 
FMC’s contributions extend the life of these aircraft and help conserve Earth’s finite resources.FMC Lithium Takes Flight
Increased   
Corrosion Resistance  
of Plane BodyTotal Plane Weight  
6% Lighter
10%  More   
Fuel Efficient
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  21 FMC embraces and is committed to responsible resource management, environmental 
impact reduction and mitigation of climate change issues. Each of our businesses is 
responsible for actively promoting environmental stewardship, which is monitored 
and reported at a corporate level. 
•  Water: Our Water Risk Assessment advances 
visibility into short- and long-term water 
availability concerns. 
Some projects incorporate elements of all these 
programs. For example, the manufacturing 
improvement effort at Minera del Altiplano, 
Argentina, has resulted in substantial declines 
in operational intensities, including a 23 percent 
reduction in water intensity, 27 percent reduction 
in energy intensity and 16 percent reduction in 
greenhouse gas intensity in 2014 compared to 2013.“My work on technology transfer, manufacturing 
support and process improvements has 
contributed to reductions in FMC Agricultural 
Solutions contract manufacturers’ waste water, 
hazardous waste and greenhouse gas emissions, 
and to improved yields of several active 
ingredients. Our proactive data collection 
and ongoing analysis of sustainability 
opportunities advance FMC’s efforts to work 
in our supply chain to preserve natural 
resources for future generations.”
Improving Operational Performance
Over recent years we developed targeted programs 
to frame operational efficiency projects that have a 
significant sustainability impact. 
•  Energy: The Energy Management Center of 
Excellence selects and works with facilities 
identified for their high energy intensity1 and 
potential for improvement. 
•  Waste: The Manufacturing Excellence program 
incorporates safety and environmental 
considerations including wasteHenry Han , Senior Manager of Technology 
Implementation, API, FMC Agricultural  
Solutions, Shanghai, China 
1Intensity: Total amount of specific operational measure divided by total tonnes of production.
22 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWEnergy Conservation Highlights
•  Our FMC Health and Nutrition plant in Rockland, 
Maine, converted from fuel oil to liquefied natural 
gas in the fall of 2014. This conversion is expected to 
reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) by 30 percent and 
particulate emissions by 50 percent in the long term. 
In 2014, we realized 8 percent GHG reduction and 31 
percent particulate emission reduction.
•  Our FMC Lithium operation at Minera del Altiplano, 
Argentina, is continuing to build a natural gas 
pipeline to stabilize fuel availability, contribute 
energy resources to local communities, and reduce 
fuel consumption and safety issues related to 
trucking natural gas to the plant.
 
•  Our Alkali Chemicals site in Granger, Wyoming, 
was honored with the ACC’s 2014 Responsible 
Care Energy Efficiency Award for “Significant 
Improvement in Manufacturing — Project.” 
This category recognizes the use of technical 
innovations to reduce energy consumption. 
FMC engineers optimized the operation of our 
electrostatic precipitator so that each cell would 
perform at the most efficient energy level, thereby 
achieving an overall 30 percent reduction in 
energy use. 
•  The Green River, Wyoming, facility partnered 
with Rocky Mountain Power on a “demand side 
management” program that reduced electricity 
consumption when necessary to save an 
estimated 1,700 megawatt hours of electricity 
annually, which is enough energy to power 155 
homes for one year. 
Our FMC Health and Nutrition business uses 
sustainability certifications as a factor in screening 
suppliers. Certification by Friends of the Sea is required 
for all of our fish oil, and we are working with the 
New England Aquarium to develop best management 
practices for sustainable seaweed.
One of our stabilizing food ingredients, microcrystalline 
cellulose, is derived from wood pulp. To counter the 
threat of deforestation we ask pulp suppliers to confirm 
that their forest sources are sustainably managed using 
a standard such as the Sustainable Forestry Initiative, 
Forest Stewardship Council or other externally verified, 
globally accepted standards.Valuing Sustainability Certifications
31
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  23 Waste and Water Management Highlights
•  FMC Health and Nutrition implemented systems 
to recover byproduct to be sold as biofuel at our 
Alesund, Norway, site. The improvement decreases 
the amount of waste discarded and ensures that 
byproduct is used for beneficial reuse.
•  The Alesund site also improved technology to 
recover additional omega-3 content from our 
process. This improvement allows us to use 9 
percent less crude fish oil to produce the same 
high-quality omega-3, thereby maximizing this 
valuable resource.Global Water Usage
0510152025
05.25.45.65.86.06.26.4Total Water Use (Million Cubic Meters)
Water Intensity (Cubic meters per Tonne)
2012 2013 2014
        Action: We will be focusing our efforts in 2015 on our FMC Lithium facilities with opportunities for water 
minimization. We will continue to monitor our water risk profile, drawing data from the World Resources 
Institute’s Aqueduct tool. Our water risk assessment conducted in 2013 will be updated to re-evaluate our 
portfolio and include newly acquired sites from Cheminova.        Analysis:  FMC water intensity decreased 
slightly in 2014. The solution mining process 
of our Alkali operations is highly water-
intensive and the main driver of our water 
use. The Alkali business, divested in early 
2015, made up 47 percent of FMC’s water 
usage. It is important to note that our FMC 
Lithium business, the second most water-
intensive of our businesses, decreased its 
water intensity by 13 percent.
This reclaimed manufacturing site in Front Royal, Virginia, 
includes an active wildlife habitat where local residents can 
enjoy nature.FMC received the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) first-ever Excellence in Site 
Reuse Award for its commitment to site 
cleanup and redevelopment in Front Royal, 
Virginia. 
The Excellence in Site Reuse Award recognizes 
FMC’s effectiveness in converting 240 acres 
of waste basins into a site that includes a 
recreational area, nature conservancy and 
business park. The EPA praised FMC’s 
successful partnership with the Front Royal 
community and Front Royal Warren County 
Economic Development Authority (EDA), and 
our shared commitment to creating a valuable 
local resource together. 
The area has already seen a return of native 
vegetation, wildflowers, butterflies and birds 
including the prairie warbler and the great 
blue heron. FMC also announced philanthropic 
donations to Friends of the Shenandoah-
Front Royal and to the EDA so they can make 
additional progress in transforming the area 
for the enjoyment of future generations.U.S. EPA Honors FMC for 
Site ReuseLegend for 
Environmental GraphsFMC Total FMC Intensity
Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturers Total FMC+Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturers Intensity
24 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW•  FMC Agricultural Solutions developed a significant 
process improvement for sulfentrazone, one of our 
major active ingredients. The change, which will 
be implemented by FMC Agricultural Solutions’ 
contract manufacturers in China in 2015, reduces 
the use of a sulfuric acid catalyst. It is expected to 
result in a 5 percent reduction of hazardous waste 
generated from production of the active ingredient. 
•  At Minera del Altiplano, Argentina, we continue 
to be mindful of our water use and are assessing 
the challenge of our limited water supply. We 
are currently developing processes and tools 
to optimize our use of water in a sustainable 
manner.
•  We expanded our water data collection process 
at Green River, Wyoming, based on a third party 
recommendation to include rainfall in water use 
calculations.
 
Our 2015 waste reduction plans include:
•  Evaluating technologies at our Middleport, New 
York, FMC Agricultural Solutions site that will 
minimize waste generation and reduce the 
volume of waste disposed. 
•  Integrate Cheminova sites into our waste 
assessment project to inform our future 
minimization strategy. Our FMC Agricultural Solutions business 
reduced the amount of steel used in one type of 
container drums by 5 percent. We analyzed our 
drums and realized that a thinner steel drum 
would be ideal for our product and equally safe. 
We shifted nearly 30 stock keeping units (SKUs) 
at 13 sites to thinner drums that weigh two 
pounds less than the previous containers. 
Anticipated benefits include reduced energy 
and greenhouse gas emissions from shipping 
lighter drums and lower emissions in our 
supply chain from less raw material extraction 
and steel smelting and processing.Lighter Containers 
Save Energy       Analysis:  Our FMC Agricultural 
Solutions and FMC Health and Nutrition 
facilities drove the increase in our waste 
intensity. There were several one-time 
waste occurrences, such as product 
rework at our Uberaba, Brazil, facility, 
the loss of a packaging recycling vendor 
who exited the business at our Rockland, 
Maine, facility, and on-site cleanup at our 
Haugesund, Norway, facility. Global Waste
Web Access for Global Waste by Type Graph01020304050607080
0510152025
Waste Intensity (Kg per Tonne)Total Waste (KTonnes)
2012 2013 2014
        Action: Our Rockland plant has identified another recycler to support our waste reduction efforts in 2015. In 
2014, we conducted a focused assessment of our waste portfolio and in 2015 we will use the results to inform our 
long-term waste strategy.  At our FMC Agricultural Solutions contract manufacturing sites, a project is underway 
that will improve the synthesis process of one of our key active ingredients. The project will both reduce waste and 
increase raw material efficiency by converting from a batch process to a continuous process. 
32
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  25 Selecting Responsible Suppliers
Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires adherence to 
sound human rights, labor, environmental and anti-
corruption standards. Having screened FMC’s most 
significant raw material suppliers for compliance 
with the Code in 2013, we expanded the process and 
began re-qualifying our key raw material suppliers 
and construction contractors in 2014. 
Given the large number of suppliers to our company, 
we have enlisted the services of a third-party auditor 
to help us with the re-qualification process. We 
continue to evaluate and qualify all new suppliers. 
Going forward, we will leverage our management 
practices around responsible sourcing to manage 
supply risk and opportunities, continue to work with 
our supply chain partners to integrate our processes 
into site policies, and work closely with suppliers to 
improve practices and drive innovation.
FMC identified safety as the priority for on-site 
contractors. Today we measure contractor recordable 
incidents so that we have the information needed to 
act on vulnerabilities.Global Energy Usage
5
06.77.07.37.67.98.18.4
101520253035Total Energy Usage (Millions MMBTU)
Energy Intensity (MMBTU per Tonne)        Analysis: Energy intensity increased 
slightly, with FMC Health and Nutrition 
facilities driving the increase due to a 
product mix in 2014 that relied on sites that 
are high energy users.
         Action: Through our Energy Management Center of Excellence (EMCOE), we are implementing actions 
identified in the energy audit conducted at our Rockland, Maine, site. We will continue to examine our FMC Health 
and Nutrition operations and are developing an energy improvement roadmap as part of our operational excellence 
plan. In 2015, the primary focus will be continued improvements in Rockland and a new focus on Cork, Ireland, 
where we will complete an energy audit and develop an action plan to reduce energy intensity. Energy audits at 
additional FMC Health and Nutrition sites will be targeted in 2016, with Newark, Delaware, and Haugesund, Norway, 
as the next priorities.
One of the goals of FMC Agricultural Solutions is to 
help farmers protect crops and achieve abundant yields. 
Through a complex supply chain that starts with raw 
materials suppliers and ends with retailers who consult 
directly with local growers, nothing is more important to 
FMC than product stewardship, safety and environmental 
responsibility at each step along the way.
Legend for 
Environmental GraphsFMC Total FMC Intensity
Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturers Total FMC+Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturers Intensity
2012 2013 2014
26 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWGlobal GHG Emissions
012345
00.951.001.051.101.15Total GHG Emissions (Million Tonnes of CO2e)
GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Tonne)
2012 2013 2014
        Action: We will monitor our FMC Agricultural Solutions contract manufacturers and work to better 
understand our greenhouse gas emissions at those sites.        Analysis:  Based on the results of a 
third party pre-assurance audit conducted 
in 2014, we updated the emissions factors 
used in calculating our GHG values to 
the most current U.S. EPA factors. These 
factors drove our reported GHG emissions 
up 4 percent over 2013. It is important to 
note that while FMC reported an overall 
increase in intensity, two of our businesses 
recorded a decline in GHG emissions. 
FMC engages with our partners at all steps of our complex supply chain. In FMC Agricultural Solutions, a 
product goes through many phases before it reaches the grower. In our unique manufacturing model, we work 
closely with our active ingredient manufacturers to work toward our sustainability goals, including technology 
innovation, responsible resource use and community outreach. 
See page 22 to learn how Henry Han develops technology with our active  
ingredient manufacturers. Following the FMC Agricultural Solutions Supply Chain
Fruit Trees
SugarcaneCROPSWeb Access for Global Criteria Pollutants Graph
KEY
FMC Contracted
FMC Owned
FMC Supply Chain PartnerFMC’s products 
are delivered to 
the grower via 
our distribution 
network. 
Growers work 
with retailers 
to choose the 
responsible and 
optimal FMC 
solution for their 
crop needs.Distributor / 
Retailer
FMC works 
with growers 
to promote 
product 
stewardship 
and responsible 
management 
practices.GrowersCorn
SoybeansProduct 
Formulation   
& Packaging
We formulate 
products that 
growers use to 
help fight pests 
and diseases, 
thereby 
increasing 
yield.Active Ingredient
Manufacturer
FMC partners 
closely with our 
AI manufacturers 
on environmental 
impacts and 
sustainable 
technology 
development.Raw Materials 
Supplier
All suppliers must 
adhere to our 
Supplier Code of 
Conduct.33
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  27 FMC embraces collaboration and builds our community relationships. We are passionate 
about our neighbors’ well-being and care deeply about adding value to their lives.
We initiated significant new relationships in 2014 
and expanded others. Our U.S. partners include 
organizations such as the Future Farmers of America, 
American Red Cross, World Food Prize and United Way. 
FMC seeks partners to share knowledge and expertise, 
improve safety and stewardship, and positively impact 
the community. We encourage stakeholders and their 
organizations to reach out to FMC people to explore 
opportunities to make a difference together. 
We understand that safety and information about our 
operations are important to neighbors and employees. 
According to input from Community Advisory Panels, 
Chambers of Commerce and local leaders, plant tours “I love seeing kids excited about science. FMC 
helps them understand there are plenty of career 
opportunities when you have a science foundation. 
It’s important that kids develop an interest in 
science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) subjects when still in middle and high 
school because it broadens their horizons and 
opens doors for their future. I have enjoyed 
being part of the FMC Lithium STEM committee, 
which has worked on several community events.”
Expanding Local and Global Relationships
In 2014 FMC employees continued their involvement in 
improving the welfare of the communities where they live 
and work. With an emphasis on four areas of opportunity –  
education and science, health and human services, arts 
and culture, and environment and conservation – FMC 
helped reinforce already strong bonds with schools, 
advanced much needed healthcare solutions and 
supported a range of non-governmental organizations 
(NGOs) that provided community assistance. Our 
activities at sites around the world included volunteerism, 
leadership, and financial support. 
Tina Steppe , Customer Service and Logistics Manager, STEM 
Committee Member, FMC Lithium, Charlotte, North Carolina 
28 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWare one of the most popular ways to improve mutual 
understanding of our role and presence. In 2014 we held 
plant tours at many of our locations around the world, 
inviting local students, employee families and other 
community members to see and learn about FMC. Our 
Alesund, Norway, site was honored with a visit from 
Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg. 
In October 2014, engagement with the Rockland, Maine, 
community included a celebration of completing our 
facility’s natural gas clean energy conversion. Nearly 
every step in the process exemplified one or more of our 
Community Engagement Index categories that we use to 
measure each facility’s type of local interaction. On the 
Rockland project, we demonstrated our commitment to:
•  Safety  by putting it at the forefront of every step 
in the planning and implementation process. Our 
goal is always zero injuries; however over the 
course of approximately 20,000 hours of combined 
construction time on the project, there was one 
contractor recordable injury. 
•  Operational transparency  and community 
partnership by engaging with the Rockland 
community and its leaders from the start of 
the project, when it was only in a conceptual 
phase. The public discussed priorities and 
concerns during an open meeting and at several 
Community Advisory Panel sessions, and local 
stakeholder input was an important factor in  
our planning. 
•  Community leadership  by implementing Maine’s 
Low Sulfur statute environmental mandate 
well before the required date of January 2018. 
We consistently made an effort to hire local, 
qualified contractors to help support the area’s 
economic development. Additionally, the site 
team openly shared experiences with other 
companies interested in converting to natural 
gas since supply in Rockland is not readily 
available through a pipeline.
 
In 2014 we achieved a score of 96, which is 
6 points above our goal of reaching an Index 
value of at least 90 in 2015.Community Engagement Index Value
2014 2013 2012 201196
8380
492015 Goal
Plant tours are one of the most popular 
ways to improve mutual understanding 
of our role and impact.
In 2014 we held plant tours at 14 of our locations around 
the world , to see and learn about our safety culture, 
research, operations, and products. Our Alesund, 
Norway, site was honored with a visit from Norwegian 
Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
34
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  29 In 2015, as our global expansion continues, we will 
explore additional partnerships with international 
service providers that can help us increase FMC’s 
community outreach effectiveness. Our close 
relationship with the American Red Cross has 
enabled us to respond rapidly to support emergency 
relief when a need arises anywhere in the world 
through its global network of affiliates.
Collaborating to Support Strategic Priorities
Because dialogue is the essence of FMC’s 
relationships, we encourage site leaders to include 
community collaboration in their assessment of local 
needs. As we determine how FMC can have a positive 
impact in the area, we rely on local constituents 
who can inform us about potential partners and 
opportunities. 
The harvesting of seaweed in Tanzania has continued to 
provide sustainable livelihoods for coastal communities.  
A local farmer (above) transports seaweed from a durable 
plastic barge, designed and produced in partnership  
with FMC.
Our FMC Health and Nutrition facility in Rockland, 
Maine, officially converted from No. 6 fuel oil to clean-
burning natural gas. The FMC team in Rockland 
celebrated the conversion with a Clean Energy and 
Safety Celebration, which included local government 
dignitaries.
Converting to natural gas will help the facility significantly 
lower emissions, increase efficiency, and obtain a 
reliable and readily available energy source. It is also 
expected to create substantial savings compared to 
using fuel oil.Rockland and the Community 
Celebrate
Seaweed Barges Enhance 
Zanzibar Farmers’ Safety 
and Productivity
Harvesting seaweed approximately 800 
meters offshore is demanding physical 
work. It requires a farmer to overcome the 
challenges of coral reefs, changing tides 
and choppy waters. FMC’s continuing effort 
to educate farmers about best practices for 
people’s safety while enhancing livelihoods 
led to the design of a lightweight, durable, 
low-cost plastic barge for seaweed farmers in 
Zanzibar, an island off the coast of Tanzania. 
We partnered with a small boat manufacturer 
to develop a vessel that could easily be moved 
by two people when loaded with seaweed. 
Previously, farmers carried seaweed on their 
heads or in boats made from rare tropical 
hardwoods. Those boats were expensive, heavy 
and lacked durability.
The recent product of this partnership is newly 
designed barges that allow farmers to pull 
large loads over reef flats. They enable the 
safe hauling of 10 times more seaweed back 
to shore, a substantial benefit in producing a 
reliable, steady income for farmers.
FMC’s local seaweed suppliers have 
subsequently purchased hundreds of 
seaweed barges for use by farmers. In 2014 
one supplier partnered with an NGO  
to develop a microloan method that facilitates  
the purchase and distribution of the barges. 
30 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW3safety
4operational transparency 2community leadership1community partnership
The National FFA Organization, a group dedicated to the study of agricultural 
science, helps high school students gain the leadership skills and knowledge needed 
to tackle the critical challenges of feeding the world’s population. FFA’s education 
programs include many topics, such as plant and animal sciences, horticulture, 
forestry and agrimarketing. With the potential to enter over 300 different careers in 
agriculture, students benefit from coursework and from hands-on experience. 
In 2014, FMC launched a partnership with FFA on both local and national levels. This partnership enabled students 
at schools located near four FMC Agricultural Solutions facilities to explore diverse career choices. We provided 
partner schools with educational grants and support of Career Development Events (CDE), which included live and 
web-based interactions with FMC scientists. In addition, FMC co-sponsored and judged the national FFA Agriscience 
Plant Systems Proficiency Award. Awards were made available to every FFA chapter across the country. Five national 
finalists were awarded for their plant systems research.
 FFA chapters supported by FMC in 2014 are:
•  Walter Biddle Saul High School in Philadelphia, near our global headquarters. It is one of only two urban 
schools in the U.S. with an FFA chapter and it is the largest of all chapters in the country. In 2014, FMC 
sponsored: CDE sessions with our scientists, preparations for an FFA competition held at Pennsylvania State 
University, participation in a regional science festival, and opportunities for teacher professional education at 
The Franklin Institute, a major science center in Philadelphia. 
•  Stark County High School in Toulon, Illinois, 
near our Wyoming, Illinois, plant. FMC began 
support of student research in science, business 
opportunities and leadership experience. 
•  Royalton-Hartland High School in Middleport, New 
York, near our FMC Agricultural Solutions plant. 
FMC supported the creation of its student chapter 
and provided essential tools and instructional 
materials. 
•  Northern Burlington County Regional High School 
in Columbus, New Jersey, near our Ewing Global 
Innovation Center. FMC funded the addition of 
hydroponic units, an outdoor irrigation system and 
greenhouse equipment for the school.FMC Supports the Future Generation of Food Producers
In February 2014, FMC participated in the Advocacy and 
Legislative Leadership Day hosted by the New Jersey FFA 
Association. Students had the opportunity to interact with and 
learn from leaders in agricultural education and innovation.In 2011, FMC set a target to achieve 90 on our Community Engagement 
Index by 2015.
Thank you for making a difference where you live and work!In 2014 we reached 96 on the Community Engagement Index, 
surpassing our target one year early.
Reaching this significant milestone took extraordinary dedication 
and effort by FMC people around the world.
A site reaches 100 on the Community Engagement Index by 
conducting community events in each of four categories:
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  31 Our strategic framework encourages more informed 
decision-making at a grassroots operational level. 
We introduced a pilot grant program in 2014 by 
providing each business unit with $55,000 in funds to 
distribute across its global operations. To apply for 
funding, employees identified prospective projects. 
Grantees were required to complete an application 
that summarized expected community impact and 
measures of success. To ensure each selected 
project met its stated goals, an FMC employee 
“champion” worked closely with the partner 
organization on implementation. The pilot program 
was enthusiastically received and resulted in greater 
participation throughout our global site network. In 
total, we supported more than a dozen additional 
educational, community and environmental efforts in 
addition to our national partnerships. 
In 2014, we upgraded and simplified our Corporate 
Citizenship and Philanthropy grant process with a 
new partner selection toolkit that focused on:
•  Stakeholder consultations to identify the key 
issues affecting the community.
•  Extensive reviews of potential non-profit partners 
and projects to determine their relevance to 
stakeholder needs and concerns as well as the 
organization’s track record in achieving desired 
outcomes.
FMC’s process for community support enables us 
to more effectively build and strengthen long-term, 
mutually beneficial relationships. In 2015 we will 
modify our funding allocation to support all regions 
where FMC is present.
FMC is company of idea generators. Our ability to 
provide sustainably advantaged specialty chemical 
solutions is contingent upon a global workforce that 
is technically competent and intellectually agile. As 
idea people, we support the expansion of science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) education 
initiatives in the communities where we live and work. 
We look forward to future generations who are able to 
help tackle global challenges requiring STEM expertise. 
As part of our outreach to young people, FMC scientist 
Frank Zawacki, left, demonstrates a chemical structure 
to students in the classroom.STEM for the Future
Students Engage with 
Scientists on Career Options
To inspire young people to continue their 
studies in Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Math (STEM), FMC partnered with the 
Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel 
University in Philadelphia on an outreach 
program for middle school students and 
their teachers. Called Career Days, the event 
brought together 1,200 students over the 
course of two days to learn directly from 
scientists about their work, education, career 
paths and professional experiences. 
FMC volunteers created tabletop displays that 
focused on biological systems, information 
technology, food ingredients and statistics. 
We emphasized the role that science plays in 
addressing real life issues and the satisfaction 
of a STEM career.
FMC hosted STEM Career Days at Drexel 
University’s Academy of Natural Sciences. More 
than 1,200 middle school students over the course 
of two days saw science in action with the help of 
20 FMC volunteers. 
32 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWIn late 2014, FMC Lithium provided funding and support 
for the Gaston (North Carolina) Regional Science and 
Engineering Fair (GRSEF) for students in grades 4-12. 
The students were tasked with creating a hypothesis or 
an engineering design. The resulting projects covered 
ideas ranging from reducing energy use in homes to 
issues of local water quality around Gaston County. As 
part of our commitment to STEM, FMC Lithium donated 
$40,000 in support of the GRSEF over the next four years.Supporting Science and STEM  
in Gaston County Schools
Our employees in Ungaran, Indonesia, decided to 
use the $1,500 they were awarded for winning the 
December 2013 FMC F!NISH Strong Safety Campaign 
to extend a forest conservation program. The effort 
had been underway for over two years in Semarang, 
an area on the coast approximately 20 kilometers 
north of Ungaran. It is an area of Indonesia that the 
World Wildlife Fund considers “an Asian pioneer in 
climate change adaptation and resilience.” 
FMC collaborated with the Bintari Foundation (the 
Indonesian Association for Sustainable Development) 
along with Dipone Goro University, Semarang 
State University and the Semarang Municipality on the project. The goal was to expand an environmental 
sustainability project to address the significant loss of mangrove trees resulting from the severe storms 
and rising sea levels that have occurred due to climate change. 
With fewer mangrove trees to protect the region, the sensitive Semarang coast suffered serious erosion, 
weakened waste and drainage systems, damaged transportation and housing infrastructure and reduced 
access to clean water. Residents lost arable land and fishing ponds that became contaminated by seawater.  
To reverse the region’s land deterioration and rehabilitate the local ecology, the Ungaran FMC facility purchased 
and helped plant 10,000 mangrove seedlings throughout the course of the project. The mangroves will protect 
the shoreline and, in turn, contribute to community revitalization. FMC Employees Address Climate Change in Indonesia
In October 2014, FMC India adopted a mile of the public 
road divider in front of its main office and took responsibility 
for beautification and maintenance for three years. The 
program aligned with one launched by the Prime Minister 
of India on cleanliness.
FMC 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  33 JOIN US  
ONLINE TO  
LEARN MORE
Our online home for all things sustainability 
at FMC is: www.fmcsustainability.com .  
We invite you to visit our site and learn more 
about our efforts across our sustainability 
platform. Follow the link or QR code…Flip Through Our  
Digital Report
Download the report PDF or 
experience our interactive digital 
report flipbook…
FMC Social Media Engagement
As a global business committed to transparency, community engagement and public dialogue, FMC utilizes 
Facebook, Twitter, Google+, LinkedIn and YouTube. Follow us on each social media platform listed below.
   facebook.com/FMCCorporation
   twitter.com/fmccorp 
   plus.google.com/+fmccorporation
   linkedin.com/company/fmc-corporation
   youtube.com/user/fmccorpcommDiscover Our Approach
At FMC Corporation, sustainability 
is an integral part of how we 
do business. Learn more about 
our step-by-step approach to 
sustainability…Targets and Goals
Our sustainability journey 
is guided by continuous 
improvement and specific 
targets and goals…
Visualize Our Data
We are committed to transparent 
reporting of our material 
resource use and other 
sustainability-related data. 
Interact with our data…
GRI Index
FMC uses the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) to inform our 
sustainability reporting. GRI has  
verified that the report is prepared 
according to the GRI Guidelines, at  
Application Level B. GRI provides  
guidance through its comprehensive  
sustainability reporting framework 
covering economic, environmental 
and social sustainability disclosure 
criteria...Explore Our Resources
Our archive of sustainability and 
other company resources is 
available for your exploration…
FMC Corporate Site
Our corporate website offers 
detailed, insightful and current 
information on our global 
business. Learn more about 
FMC’s work…
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT35 40
36 41
37 42 3938
Sustainability + You
As a company committed to
being a sustainability leader,
we invite our communities,
employees and stakeholders
to help us become more
sustainable…
34 EMBRACING OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROWBOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pierre R. Brondeau
President, Chief Executive Officer  
and Chairman of the Board 
FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer
Cabot Corporation
G. Peter D’Aloia
Managing Director
and Member of the Board of 
Directors
Ascend Performance Materials  
Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer
Principal
Greer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson
Chief Executive Officer and 
President
Elevance Renewable Sciences
Dirk A. Kempthorne
President and Chief Executive 
Officer
American Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive Officer
W. R. Grace & Co.
Robert C. Pallash
Retired President, Global Customer 
Group and Senior Vice President
Visteon Corporation
William H. Powell
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive Officer
National Starch and Chemical 
Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. 
Chief Executive Officer and 
President
Dresser-Rand Group, Inc.EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Pierre R. Brondeau
President, Chief Executive Officer  
and Chairman of the Board 
Paul Graves
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer
Andrea E. Utecht
Executive Vice President  
General Counsel and Secretary
Mark A. Douglas
President
FMC Agricultural Solutions
Eric W. Norris
Vice President, Global Business 
Director
FMC Health and Nutrition
Barry J. Crawford
Vice President, Operations
Kenneth A. Gedaka
Vice President  
Communications and Public Affairs
Kyle Matthews
Vice President
Human Resources
Andrew D. Sandifer
Vice President
Corporate Transformation
Karen M. Totland 
Vice President, Global Procurement, 
Global Facilities & Corporate 
SustainabilityOFFICERS
Brian P. Angeli
Vice President, Corporate Strategy 
and Development, Investor 
Relations
Thomas C. Deas, Jr.
Vice President and Treasurer
Jaime Gómez-Arnau
Vice President, 
FMC Agricultural Solutions, Europe, 
Middle East and Africa
Marc L. Hullebroeck
Vice President and Business 
Director  
FMC Agricultural Solutions,  
North America
David A. Kotch
Vice President, Chief Information 
Officer
Nicholas L. Pfeiffer
Corporate Controller
Tom Schneberger
Vice President, Global Business 
Director
FMC Lithium
Charles J. Thomas
Vice President, Finance
Bethwyn Todd
President, FMC Asia
Vice President
FMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia
Victoria V. Walton
Vice President, Tax
Shawn Whitman
Vice President, Government Affairs
Antonio Zem
President, FMC Latin America
Vice President  
FMC Agricultural Solutions,  
Latin AmericaThis publication is printed on recycled paper using soy-based inks.
Copyright © 2015, FMC Corporation. All rights reserved.FMC Corporation
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103
USA
www.FMC.com
FPO