2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMessage from the CEO  
Our Company
2021 Performance
Vision for a Sustainable Future
Protection
• Committing to Greater Change
• New Long-Term Environmental Goals
• Environmental Metrics
• R&D Process Optimization
• Ecosystem RestorationInnovation
• Advancing Sustainable Agriculture
• Protecting Biodiversity & Natural Resources
Engagement
• Cultivating a Diverse, Equitable, Inclusive Workplace
• Advancing Women in Agriculture
• Our Commitment to Underrepresented Farmers 
• Building Strong Communities
• Inspiring the Next Generation
Our Commitment to Safety
Assurance StatementBoard of Directors, Executive Leadership  
& FMC Officers
UN Global Compact
Digital ESG Appendices
A. Governance
B. Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Assessment
C. Supporting Data  
Environmental , Safety  and Workforce
D. Reporting Standards  
GRI Index , SASB  and TCFDTABLE OF  CONTENTS
INNOVATION12
PROTECTION06
ENGAGEMENT202
3
4
5
612
20
34
38 
39
40
42ABOUT THIS REPORT &  
REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
FMC Corporation, an agricultural sciences company, provides innovative solutions to growers around the world with a 
robust product portfolio fueled by a market-driven discovery and development pipeline in crop protection, plant health 
and professional pest and turf management.
Explore  
FMC.com/sustainability  
We invite you to visit our website for more information 
and data. You can explore the website to access 
FMC reports and videos related to our sustainability 
programs, as well as FMC policies and statements 
on several important topics including climate change, 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), human 
rights, supplier code of conduct and animal welfare.FMC REPORTING AND  
CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES
Our annual sustainability report continues to be a 
key engagement and transparency function for FMC. 
The environmental and safety data in this report 
include all sites under FMC’s operational control in 
the 2021 calendar year. All greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions are reported in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI)
This report and our web-based content at  
FMC.com/sustainability  have been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.  
A detailed GRI Content Index can be found in 
Appendix D  in our digital appendices.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE OF 
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
FMC engaged ERM Certification and Verification 
Services to provide limited assurance in relation 
to specified 2021 environmental and safety data. 
The scope of this assurance includes Scope 1 and 2 
emissions at our manufacturing sites and Stine, Scope 
3 emissions (including Categories 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 
and 12), waste (generated and disposed) and water 
use. The ERM CVS assurance letter is on page 38  and 
provides the complete list of data assured in 2021. 
MATERIALITY
The information and topics covered in this report were 
guided by our 2020 materiality assessment that was 
completed in accordance with GRI standards. This 
assessment was accomplished through surveys with 
stakeholders. Further details on this assessment and the 
materiality matrix can be found in Appendix B . FMC is in 
the process of conducting a 2022 materiality assessment.REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
A principle-based framework for global companies committed 
to responsible business practices in the areas of human rights, 
labor, the environment and anti-corruption.
FMC became a signatory to the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This report represents our  
seventh Communication on Progress in support of the UNGC 
principles. A summary of our Communication on Progress  
can be found on our website .
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
A set of disclosures we have adopted that were created to 
improve and increase reporting of climate-related financial 
information. FMC is a TCFD supporter.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
These Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for sustainability 
provide a series of standards to reporting companies from  
all sectors. 
CDP 
The global disclosure system that allows investors, companies, 
cities, states and regions to manage their environmental 
impacts. FMC has been reporting to CDP since 2016.
To read more about our reporting frameworks visit  
FMC.com/sustainability/sustainability-data-and-reporting .A MESSAGE
from Mark Douglas,  
President and  
Chief Executive OfficerAfter steadily declining over the last 10 years, world 
hunger is now on the rise, driven largely by conflict, 
climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic. The need 
for food systems transformation is greater than ever. 
Healthy food systems depend on sustainable agriculture, 
from farming practices that reduce emissions and 
conserve natural resources to products that improve soil 
quality and prevent food loss and waste. Throughout 
this report, you will find examples of how we are 
working to increase the productivity, sustainability and 
equity of crop yields across global populations.
In early 2022, we announced a new set of 
commitments to augment our sustainability strategy 
and drive tangible progress in three areas: Protection , 
Innovation  and Engagement . These pillars, along 
with the strategic imperatives we’ve defined to drive 
progress in each, are the foundation of FMC’s global 
sustainability platform. In addition to serving as our 
roadmap for the future, the platform will hold us 
accountable to our commitments on climate, food 
security, conservation and diversity, equity and 
inclusion. I encourage you to continue reading to learn 
more about our Vision for a Sustainable Future.
As we developed our platform, we continued to 
build momentum on several key goals. Notable 
achievements over the past year include:
 •We committed to achieve net-zero greenhouse 
gas emissions by 2035  and submitted our near-
term, 2030 targets to Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) Business Ambition for 1.5°C.
 •We reset our long-term environmental goals   
to drive absolute reductions in water and waste.
 •We signed on to the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD) and are conducting scenario analyses to inform 
management decisions related to climate risks 
and opportunities.
 •Across our company, we continued to make 
progress on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion , 
particularly on our gender and race equity goals. 
We also tied our gender and race equity goals to 
executive compensation and performance goals 
for leaders throughout the organization. 
 •We invested in and strengthened our partnerships 
to accelerate agricultural innovation  in precision 
and digital technologies as well as advanced 
biological solutions. 
Our ability to become a more sustainable company 
is tied directly to our business value and long-term 
success. As we move forward, we will continue 
to evaluate opportunities within the context of 
FMC’s growth strategy and where we can have the 
most impact based on our strengths as a global, 
agriculture-focused company. 
Our plan for a more sustainable future will require 
time, innovation, ingenuity and determination 
from every corner of FMC. It will require greater 
collaboration internally and externally as we seek 
strategic partnerships to help us along the way.  
We have always been a company that embraces 
the biggest challenges and we are confident that 
each step of the journey will drive progress across 
our company and agriculture globally to create a 
better world for  generations to come . Growing Our Business 
Sustainably
Future generations depend on 
companies like FMC to take a 
more active role in solving global 
challenges such as climate change, 
food insecurity and social injustice.  
I am proud to say that over the past 
year, we have made notable progress 
on FMC’s climate strategy and our 
diversity, equity and inclusion goals. 
We have also continued to invest in 
and expand our portfolio of innovative 
solutions to advance sustainable 
agriculture globally. However, as we 
continue to see growing instability in 
nearly every corner of the world, we 
know there is much more work to do.Mark Douglas
President and  
Chief Executive Officer  
FMC Corporation
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME3
3
Main Product Lines
1
 Insecticides
2
 Herbicides
3
 Fungicides4
 Biologicals
5
 Seed Treatments
6
 Micronutrients
Current Global Footprint 
of Revenues in 
R&D Spend
6%
Manufacturing 
Sites
21
Major Innovation 
Centers
5
Employees
6,230
FMC Corporation is a leading provider of innovative crop protection solutions for growers around the world.   
We have a broad portfolio of proprietary crop protection products and a robust pipeline fueled by innovative discovery  
and development capabilities in crop protection, plant health and professional pest and turf maintenance solutions.  
FMC employs more than 6,000 employees around the globe.
Our six Core Values define who we are and how we do business: Customer-Centricity , Sustainability , Respect for People , 
Safety , Integrity  and Agility . Collectively, these values guide us as individuals and as a global team of people around the 
world. Operating with integrity is of utmost importance and our ethics and compliance values run deep. Read more about 
Governance and operating principles at FMC.com/sustainability  or in Appendix A .OUR  
COMPANY 
A Global WorkforceFMC Global Locations
Latin America39%
Asia Pacific
13%
North America
24%
Employees
6,230
Europe, Middle  
East & Africa
24%3
Manufacturing Research and 
Technology CenterOffices
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT4
2021  PERFORMANCE
In addition to strong financial results in 2021, we continued to make progress on our sustainability goals, including our 2025 operational goals (sustainable innovation, safety, 
community engagement) and 2027 workforce diversity goals. This data is presented below and in Appendix C .
This year, we will not report progress on our 2030 environmental goals.  In 2021, we reevaluated these goals against current data and science, and decided to commit to 
greater change across our company with more aggressive targets. Our first step was to set a net-zero target aligned with Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). SBTi requires 
us to use a 2021 baseline and our previous 2030 goals compared to a 2018 baseline. We also recalculated our waste and water goals based on a 2021 baseline.
Our new environmental goals are presented on page 8 and 9 of this report. We will report on progress against these goals on a regular basis going forward.4
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
North America
22%
Latin America
32%2021 Financial Performance Summary
For the year ending December 31, 2021, FMC Corporation recorded the following results:
*Represents a non-GAAP financial term. Refer to our website for definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP terms to the most 
directly comparable GAAP term.Revenue by Region | 2021 FY
$5.05
Annual Revenue  
(billions)
$734
GAAP Net Income  
(millions)
$1.32*
Adjusted EBITDA  
(billions)
$5.70
GAAP Diluted Earnings  
Per Share
$6.93*
Adjusted EBITDA Earnings  
Per Share
Asia Pacific
25%
Europe, Middle East 
& Africa
21%
30.4 %
 9.4 %
 0.07
 84
 97%
50%
representation in  
the global workforce
14%
representation in  
the U.S. workforce
<0.1 Total
Recordable Incident  
Rate (TRIR)
100
on the Community  
Engagement Index 
100% R&D spend  
on sustainably  
advantaged products
2021 Progress
2025 Sustainability Goals
 2027 Workforce Diversity Goals
Innovation SafetyCommunity 
EngagementFemale 
Representation Black/African American 
Representation FOR GENERATIONS TO COME5
VISION FOR A  
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
Rooted in the traditions of sustainable farming, 
Greater Than Green  is our shared promise to drive 
progress across our company and agriculture globally 
to create a better world for generations to come. 
The world needs a thriving and sustainable food 
system, and we all play a vital role. Greater Than 
Green elevates our long-standing commitments to 
protect the biodiversity of our land, enrich the health 
of our soils and increase the productivity and equity  
of crop yields across global populations. Together,  
we can make a global difference. 
For FMC, Greater Than Green raises the personal and 
professional standards of environmental and social 
responsibility. It demands that each of us go beyond 
the expected to make a greater difference where 
we work and where we live. Aligned with Key UN 
Sustainable Development Goals, it is designed to drive 
tangible actions in three important areas: Protection , 
Innovation  and Engagement . We believe that true sustainability  
goes beyond conservation. It requires  
all of us to find new ways to enhance  
the health of our planet and the vitality  
of our communities.
 Moving beyond reduction of our footprint to drive  meaningful improvements  
in emissions, energy, water and waste.
INNOVATION
Thinking beyond the current landscape to pioneer new agro-technologies that better  
protect biodiversity and natural resources  at the core of our global food system.
Seeing beyond our individual differences and interests to forge deeper and more productive 
relationships  with farmers, business partners, our communities and each other.
Aligned United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development GoalsFMC Global Sustainability Pillars
Zero Hunger
Eliminate hunger  
and malnutritionLife on Land
Protect and restore 
ecosystems
Climate Action
Combat climate change 
and its impactsDecent Work and  
Economic Growth
Promote inclusive, equitable 
economic growth
PROTECTION
ENGAGEMENT
To watch the video on our Greater Than Green platform,  
visit FMC.com/sustainability .PROTECTION
Moving beyond reduction of our footprint to drive  meaningful 
improvements in emissions, energy, water and waste.
OUR  
IMPERATIVESNewNew
Achieve net-zero 
greenhouse gas  
emissions  by 2035
Use renewable energy  
sources across all  
FMC locations
Drive absolute reductions 
(tons) in water usage  
and waste generation 
Committing to  
Greater Change
OUR JOURNEY TO NET-ZERO BY 2035
At FMC, we are rooted in science. So when we 
announced our commitment to net-zero greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions by 2035 , we were determined 
to take a scientific approach, setting science-based 
targets in line with the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) Net-Zero Standard.  By setting 
science-based targets, we are accountable for 
progress clearly aligned with keeping the global 
temperature within 1.5°C above pre-industrial times  
as set forth by the Paris Agreement.Earlier in 2022, we achieved the first milestone in 
our net-zero journey, submitting our near-term 2030 
emissions reduction targets for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 to 
SBTi. These include:
absolute 
reduction for  
Scope 3 
emissions25%
absolute 
reduction for 
Scope 1 & 2 
emissions42%
UN Sustainable Development Goal Alignment:FOR GENERATIONS TO COME7
2022 – 2023  
PRIORITIES7
To get here, we spent the latter part of 2021 
quantifying emissions across FMC’s entire 
value chain , working closely with our Operations, 
Procurement and R&D teams. The process was 
rigorous but necessary for us to understand all factors 
that contribute to our emissions and build out our 
reduction roadmap. To do this meant expanding 
our reporting boundary to include all FMC-owned 
locations and transportation fleet , and performing 
an in-depth analysis of our Scope 3 emissions. 
Partnership with internal and external stakeholders is a 
key part of our climate strategy, as our commitment to 
reduce GHG emissions goes beyond FMC’s operations.  
Like most companies, the majority of our emissions –  94 percent – are Scope 3. To drive sustainable 
progress, we must focus on reducing Scope 3 
emissions.  As part of this, we have engaged key 
suppliers, many of whom have their own climate 
goals. We are looking forward to partnering with 
employees, contractors and customers across  our global business to reduce emissions in a way 
that has a meaningful and measurable impact on 
climate change. WE ARE COMMITTED TO 
COUNTING EVERYTHING , 
INCLUDING CHALLENGING 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS .
Establish a  
sustainable  
sourcing policy3
Renew long-term   
water and  
waste goals2
Develop a roadmap  
to achieve emissions 
reduction target1FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT8
Our next step is to submit our long-term net-zero 
targets to SBTi in Q3 2022.  As we develop these 
targets, we are focusing on locations with the largest 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, identifying opportunities 
for process efficiencies, renewable energy and 
technology advancements. Most recently, Stine 
Research Center, FMC’s global R&D headquarters and 
one of our top three energy consumers, completely 
overhauled its heating and cooling system to improve 
energy efficiency. As a result of this and other 
improvements, the site’s current energy use is down 
10 percent from 2019.
Achieving net-zero will be no small feat and 
there is no direct path to get there. It will be a 
challenge that requires time, innovation, ingenuity 
and determination. As we move forward, we will 
continue to be transparent about our progress, our 
challenges and our learnings to help others on their 
journey. We are in this together and each of us plays  
a role in the fight against climate change and 
preserving our planet for future generations.Our new environmental metrics 
represent a significant leap forward 
for FMC’s longstanding commitment to 
sustainability. With aggressive goals 
around net-zero emissions, energy, water 
and waste, we’re setting a new standard 
for sustainability in our industry.
Most notably, we shifted from intensity-based 
to absolute measurements of our environmental 
footprint. “Absolute” refers to the total quantity 
of greenhouse gas emissions released into the 
atmosphere, or the total amount (in tons) of water 
used and waste generated. While intensity metrics 
can be useful for benchmarking purposes, it’s the 
absolute quantities that have the greatest impact  
on the planet.
Continuing to reduce our environmental footprint  
in absolute terms will be a challenge for our growing 
company, but we are committed to doing what is 
necessary to drive meaningful improvements that 
help us meet our goals. 
TOGETHER WITH OUR 
PARTNERS, FMC IS 
LEADING THE WAY 
TO NET-ZERO  – OUR 
PLANET’S BEST CHANCE 
FOR A HEALTHY AND 
PROSPEROUS FUTURE .Incorporating renewable energy at all FMC 
sites is necessary for us to achieve our 
net-zero goal. This includes procurement 
of renewable energy sources, producing 
our own where feasible and developing 
novel energy solutions that can be 
implemented across sites. LONG-TERM 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
GOALS  NewNew
Use Renewable  
Energy
Waste to  
Beneficial Reuseby 2035
by 2035100 %
100 %
100 percent waste-to-beneficial reuse 
by 2035, includes reductions in waste 
generation, reuse of materials, recycling 
and energy recovery.of all sitesFOR GENERATIONS TO COME9
ANNOUNCING NEW LONG-TERM  
WATER AND WASTE GOALS
In addition to our company-wide emissions, we are 
actively tracking and reducing water use and waste 
disposal across our manufacturing sites. After an 
extensive analysis of our current metrics, we reset 
our long-term water and waste goals. We have 
committed to implement sustainable water 
practices at all sites and 100 percent beneficial 
reuse of waste generated by 2035.
Our environmental responsibility is not just about 
reducing how much we consume or generate; it’s 
about how we use our resources. Our 100 percent 
beneficial reuse by 2035 goal ensures that we 
prioritize not only innovative ways to reduce overall 
waste generated, but also the reuse, recycling and 
energy recovery. And by implementing sustainable 
water practices at all of our sites, we are focusing  
on being good water stewards, especially in high-  
risk areas.
Environmental Metrics
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 
In 2021, we engaged ERM CVS to perform a limited 
assurance of our environmental and sustainability 
data. The scope of this assurance includes Scope 
1 and 2 emissions at our manufacturing sites and 
Stine, Scope 3 emissions (including Categories 1, 
2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12), waste (generated and 
disposed) and water use. The ERM CVS assurance 
letter is on page 38 and provides the complete list  
of data assured in 2021. FMC recently achieved the first milestone 
in our net-zero journey, submitting near-
term 2030 emissions reduction targets to 
SBTi Business Ambition for 1.5°C. These 
include 42 percent absolute reduction for 
Scopes 1 and 2 emissions and 25 percent 
absolute reduction for Scope 3 emissions.
Absolute GHG 
Emissions Net-Zero
by 2035
by 2035100 %
FMC has committed to implement 
sustainable water practices as defined 
by the Alliance for Water Stewardship 
(AWS) Standard at all sites by 2035.  
We will focus on high-risk areas, pursuing 
AWS certification for those sites by 2030. Implement 
Sustainable Water 
Practices of all sites9
Energy
We are continuing to implement energy efficiencies 
across all of our sites. For example, at FMC’s Stine 
Research Center, we completed the heating and cooling 
system upgrades as previously reported and continue 
to make improvements, including upgrading fan 
motors and water pumps to operate in variable flow 
conditions. This allows for fans and pumps to run based 
on demand, decreasing energy usage from 2 percent 
in 2020 to 1.3 percent in 2021. The site was awarded 
the 2022 merit-based ACC Responsible Care Energy 
Efficiency Award for these improvements. 
ENVIRONMENTAL BOUNDARY
FMC reports its greenhouse gas emissions in 
accordance with the recommendations provided 
in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol . In 2021, we 
expanded our Scope 1 and 2 boundary to include 
emissions from all FMC-owned sites as well as 
our fleet. FMC also is reporting our entire Scope 3 
emissions (including Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 
and 12). 
A detailed breakdown of FMC’s emissions can be 
found in Appendix C . 
Total Energy Use (Terajoule) 2,162.99
Total Renewable Energy (Terajoule) 32.64FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT10
Variable flow pump at  
Stine Research Centerrenewable energy procured from wind and solar 
sources. This, in addition to the use of peanut 
briquettes as biofuel, is reducing emissions. 
We are actively pursuing similar opportunities at 
some of our largest GHG emitting sites including  
the Stine Research Center in the U.S., the Jinshan  
site in China and the Rønland site in Denmark.
Waste 
We continue to focus on waste reduction and re-
use across all our sites through ongoing process 
improvements. For example, at the Jinshan site we 
have applied learnings from solvent recovery and 
recycling processes at our Mobile, Alabama site to 
drive a 15 percent  reduction in waste generated as 
well as significant reductions in water use. We also 
established a new recycling program, partnering with 
a third-party to ensure the cardboard and pallets used 
for shipping raw materials are recycled at this site. 
We have provided a detailed summary of our waste 
generation, as well as disposal methods in Appendix C .
WaterWater scarcity is a critical global issue and we are 
committed to responsible use of water resources in the 
communities where we operate. We continually aim to 
reduce our water usage across all our sites, focusing 
on innovative ways to recycle process water as well as 
efficiencies that decrease water consumption. 
For example, at our formulations and packaging 
sites, water is used to clean equipment between 
product campaigns. Our production site in Brazil 
achieved significant water use reduction through 
improved supply chain management. By optimizing 
our scheduling, we were able to minimize changeovers 
between campaigns, reducing our water consumption 
and total waste generation. 
At our Panoli site, which is a high-risk water use 
location, we have increased internal wastewater 
treatment capacity by implementing a reverse osmosis 
system that no longer requires liquid industrial effluent 
discharge. This has resulted in a 40 percent  reduction 
in water consumption through the recovery, recycle and 
reuse process.GHG Emissions
GHG emissions associated with our manufacturing 
sites and our largest research facility have decreased 
as compared to 2020. The reduction at 
our previous reporting boundary can 
be attributed to use of renewable 
energy and continued operational 
efficiencies resulting in lower 
energy usage. For example, 
at our manufacturing site 
in Panoli, India, we have 
increased the amount of 10
Notes about emissions reporting: 
In accordance with the GHG protocol, all material and non-material sites 
are included in our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reporting. 
Gross Scope 3 Emissions, Total, represent FMC’s total scope 3 emissions 
including Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12. 
Gross Scope 3 Emissions, SBTi Target Boundary includes Categories 1 
(only direct chemicals, packaging and indirect remediation) 3, 4 and 5 
which represents 93 percent of total scope 3 emission. 
Total Water Use (Million Cubic Meters) 1.45
Total High-Risk Water Use  
(Million Cubic Meters)0.24
Total Waste Disposed (Kilo tonne) 49.92
Total Waste for Beneficial Reuse (Kilo tonne) 26.95
Total Hazardous Waste (Kilo tonne) 52.84
Total Non-Hazardous Waste (Kilo tonne) 24.03
FMC Panoli reverse osmosis systemTotal GHG Emissions, Location-Based  
(Kilo tonne CO2e)2,727.76
Total GHG Emissions, Market-Based  
(Kilo tonne CO2e)2,726.94
Gross Scope 1 Emissions (Kilo tonne CO2e) 102.60
Gross Scope 2 Emissions, Location-Based  
(Kilo tonne CO2e)63.27
Gross Scope 2 Emissions, Market-Based  
(Kilo tonne CO2e)62.45
Gross Scope 3 Emissions, Total 2,561.89
Gross Scope 3 Emissions, SBTi Boundary 2,370.55FOR GENERATIONS TO COME11
R&D Process Optimization
To meet our long-term goals, we need to look 
beyond our manufacturing sites.  As part of 
our robust research and development processes, 
our teams actively ensure new products are 
manufactured in line with our environmental goals. 
Recently, when developing a new herbicide, the team 
made adjustments to a complex intermediate process 
that significantly reduced the amount of hazardous 
waste generated and maximized the process output. 
These changes in how we operate demonstrate 
our company’s commitment to safeguarding the 
environment for future generations.
Ecosystem Restoration
PROJECT SEMEAR
Reforesting the Cerrado Biome
The Cerrado is a vast tropical area of land, and one of 
the world’s most biodiversity-rich ecosystems, located 
in central Brazil. A large portion of the Cerrado is used 
for farming – mainly soybeans and corn. Protecting 
biodiversity and preserving vital ecosystems like the 
Cerrado is essential to ensuring a healthy planet and 
mitigating climate change. 
FMC works closely with Brazilian farmers to provide 
solutions that maximize crop yields on existing 
farmland to minimize further agricultural expansion 
into areas like the Cerrado. We know that restoring 
the land is just as important as conserving it, so in 
2021, we joined forces with the local soybean grower 
association, APROSOJA, research institute, Instituto 
Federal de Pesquisa do Maranhão and university, Universidade Federal do Maranhão, to reforest a 
portion of the Cerrado in Maranhão.
The initiative, called Project SEMEAR , aims to plant 
eight million Cerrado-native trees over eight years on 
farmland that is currently used for soybeans. FMC is 
sponsoring the construction and maintenance of 
seedling greenhouses as well as training for the 
planting teams. 
SEMEAR officially launched in January 2022 and 
targets planting 500,000 trees in its first year.11
“We are very excited about this project. 
The Cerrado Biome is home to a vast 
number of species of plants, vertebrates, 
insects and microorganisms that can’t 
be found anywhere else on Earth. This 
is truly a partnership between science, 
agriculture and nature and we are 
thrilled to be working with soybean 
producers in Maranhão and supporting 
the transition to sustainable agriculture 
in the region.”
Sinara Ferreira
FMC Project SEMEAR  Lead
SEMEAR Objectives
Trees planted 
in 8 years
8M
Trees planted in 
the first year
500 K
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME
Volunteers for Project SEMEAR learning 
about the biodiversity of the CerradoOUR  
IMPERATIVESNewNew INNOVATION
Thinking beyond the current landscape to pioneer new  
agro-technologies that better protect biodiversity and  
natural resources  at the core of our global food system.
Advancing  
Sustainable Agriculture
Innovation is at the heart of FMC’s commitment  
to sustainable agriculture and farmers around  
the world.  We are making significant investments 
in R&D and precision and digital technologies that 
enhance agricultural productivity and contribute to  
a more resilient and sustainable food system. 
Every harvest brings new challenges and farmers 
cannot wait for the next innovation in crop protection. 
We are leveraging the latest advancements in 
artificial intelligence and machine learning to advance 
the discovery and development of targeted modes of action that help combat resistance and sustainably 
increase yields. In the next few years, we will 
introduce the first new herbicide mode of action in 
over 30 years . We are currently developing it for use  
in rice and soybeans.
In addition to new modes of action, we are working 
closely with farmers around the world to deliver 
innovative solutions that increase sustainability 
of farming practices , from precision application 
technologies that reduce emissions and conserve water 
to products that enhance soil health and biodiversity 
on the farm. Sustainable farming practices, along with 
integrated pest management programs, offer growers 
a holistic, sustainable approach to food production.
UN Sustainable Development Goal Alignment:
Invest in broadening our  
portfolio of new solutions   
to maximize crop yields on  
existing farmland
Enable advancements in  
farming that reduce on-farm  
carbon emissions and  
promote water stewardship
Enhance soil health,  
crop nutrition and biodiversity   
on the farm to ensure healthy, 
resilient and productive harvestsFOR GENERATIONS TO COME13
13
2022 – 2023  
PRIORITIES
Throughout the innovation process, our relationship 
with growers is paramount. We believe our role is 
to listen to them – and to learn from them – as the 
stewards of their land. They know best what it takes 
to produce healthy crops, and we are here to support 
them every step of the way. 
A LEADING BIOLOGICALS PORTFOLIO
As an innovation-driven company, we constantly 
seek new ways to enhance agricultural productivity 
while protecting the health of our planet. At FMC, 
innovation means thinking beyond the current 
landscape to pioneer new agro-technologies that better protect the biodiversity and natural 
resources at the core of our global food system .  
As part of this, we continue to expand our portfolio of 
biologicals, which offer farmers effective, sustainable 
solutions to maximize yields on existing farmland.
Biologicals represent a diverse group of crop 
protection (biopesticides) and stimulant products 
(biostimulants and biofertilizers) derived from living 
organisms and naturally-occurring compounds.
An example of a biopesticide we are launching 
this year in soybeans in the U.S. is Zironar™ 
biofungicide/bionematicide. Zironar™ is a biofungicide 
and bionematicide with the added benefits of a biostimulant. Applied at planting, it has been shown 
to increase root branching, which strengthens plants 
and helps them use water more efficiently. Zironar™ 
biofungicide/bionematicide will be available for use in 
cotton, corn and sugar beets in 2023. 
Develop a carbon and  
water impact assessment   
for Arc™ farm intelligenceFurther augment  
FMC’s Sustainability 
Assessment Tool2 1FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT14
Our growing portfolio of biostimulants provides much-
needed tools to farmers facing increasingly difficult 
growing conditions due to climate change. In addition 
to improving soil health, biostimulants increase crops’ 
resilience to environmental stresses, including extreme 
temperatures, salinity and drought. Solutions like FMC’s 
Furagro™ Legend organic fertilizer help farmers in 
India to improve crops’ response to drought. The 
product works at a very low dose rate and is powered 
by SURGE Technology (Selective Upregulation of Gene 
Expression) that improves a plant’s gene activation 
responsible for various plant functions. FMC plans to 
make this solution available to growers across multiple 
countries in Asia and Europe starting in 2023. 
The need for sustainable solutions like biologicals is 
growing by the day and we are preparing to meet 
that need, investing in new partnerships and research 
and development capabilities to accelerate innovation 
in the global biological market. 
Since 2015, we have launched more than 25 products 
across 20 countries, surpassing revenue of $200 million SINCE 2015, WE HAVE 
LAUNCHED MORE THAN  
25 PRODUCTS ACROSS  
20 COUNTRIES.
Through the perfect balance of 
science and nature, we bring 
together innovative crop protection 
solutions with the latest technologies 
- all to ensure healthy growth today 
with a prosperous harvest and a 
sustainable future for tomorrow. in 2021. We expect to have more than 10 product 
launches in 2022 alone. Additionally, we are planning 
to submit registrations and Experimental Use Permit 
applications for more than 30 new biologicals. 
With the pace at which FMC is introducing new 
biological solutions around the world, we were excited 
to launch Biologicals by FMC . 
Biological products are an integral part of the future 
– for healthy soils, healthy crops and increased yields. 
FMC is leading the field with best-in-class biostimulant 
and biopesticide products and modern solutions for 
sustainable farming for generations of growers .
Our aim is to be the responsible change-maker, 
leading the way with an integrated approach where 
biologicals go hand-in-hand with synthetics. To 
get there, we have turned to nature for the “what,” 
and to our history and our people for the “how,” 
with innovative ways to unite them and form a new 
generation of powerful biologicals.
DISCOVERING THE NEXT BREAKTHROUGH  
IN BIOLOGICAL CROP PROTECTION
Enzymes
In 2021, FMC began a strategic collaboration with 
Novozymes to develop biological enzyme-based crop 
protection products. Enzymes as biocontrol are an 
untapped segment in agriculture, and we are excited 
to bring this technology to growers around the world. 
It can play an essential role in increasing agricultural 
sustainability by introducing new modes of action to 
combat hard-to-control diseases and pests. discovering and developing microbe-based biological 
crop protection solutions. 
DTU has expertise in microbiology, genomics, 
metabolomics, automation and artificial intelligence, as 
well as a large and diverse collection of microorganisms 
that will be used for the project. Together, we seek 
to develop a new paradigm for screening extensive 
collections of microorganisms by combining automatic 
functional assays and characterization methods with 
laboratory-based evolution and artificial intelligence. 
The SABS project is focused on discovering and 
developing new biofungicides for controlling leading 
fungal diseases in cereals. This partnership is helping us develop products with 
new modes of action and high levels of performance 
and stability. Enzyme-based biocontrol technology 
will work well integrated with synthetics in a 
comprehensive pest management program.
Innovation in Microbe-Based Solutions
In 2021, FMC and the Technical University of 
Denmark (DTU), an institutional leader in biotechnology 
research, received a 26 million Danish kroner (~3.7 
million USD) grant from the Danish Innovation Funds for 
their Smarter AgroBiological Screening (SABS) project. 
The grant provides funds to improve technologies for 14
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTo watch this video, visit FMC.com/biologicals .
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME15
ARCTM FARM INTELLIGENCE  
WAS RECOGNIZED AS THE BEST 
INNOVATION IN DIGITAL FARMING 
TECHNOLOGY  AT IHS MARKIT’S 2021 
CROP SCIENCE FORUM AND AWARDS.PROMOTING BETTER FARMING  
THROUGH TECHNOLOGY
Precision and Digital Agriculture
A new generation of farmers, equipped with 
smartphones, field monitoring systems and GPS-
guided equipment, is shaping the future of agriculture 
globally. Precision and digital agriculture technologies 
help farmers better protect their crops while using less 
energy, water and traditional inputs. For example, 
our 3RIVE 3D® application system is a precision 
application technology that uses 90 percent less 
water than alternative systems and can reduce 
carbon emissions from product application by up 
to 80 percent.  FMC is investing significantly in these 
technologies to sustainably increase agricultural 
productivity around the world.
With a focus on crop care, we are developing 
digital solutions that advance sustainable 
agriculture by identifying pest infestations before 
they become a problem . Through the use of sensors, 
drones and satellites, farmers receive field-level 
insights that help them better understand the  
scope and scale of pest pressure so they can more 
effectively treat it. 
Our Arc™ farm intelligence platform  uses data 
and machine learning to predict pest pressure 
up to a week in advance. These insights allow farmers to precisely target the infestation, 
reducing the frequency of applications, which can 
help farmers conserve water and reduce their carbon 
emissions. Simply put, our precision agriculture 
solutions help growers use less to grow more.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIALS
CUSTOMER Arnaldo Saturino , Farm Manager
FARM Palmital Farm  - Três Estrelas
LOCATION Primavera do Leste   
Mato Grosso, Brazil
At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, 
we restricted third-party access to the farm to 
avoid any transmission of the virus. It was a very 
complicated time. However, with Arc™ farm 
intelligence, I was able to continue monitoring my 
farm without restriction. I received information 
from the smart traps weekly, which helped me 
understand where the boll weevil and spodoptera 
pests were in the cultivation area of nearly 5,000 
hectares where we planted soybean, corn and 
cotton crops. With the data in the application, 
I knew I had boll weevil pressure, a key issue 
in cotton crop, during my first planting of the 
season. I then directed the farm team to conduct 
preventative boll weevil applications for the 
upcoming cotton season. I was able to keep the 
boll weevil pressure low before I even planted 
cotton, which gave us a great advantage for yield.CUSTOMER Eduardo Brito Baron , Partner/Producer,  
Digital Agriculture at Tchê
FARM Itatiaia Farm
LOCATION Goias, Brazil
Pest monitoring on my soybeans, corn, sorghum, 
beans and wheat crops has always been done 
manually by sales consultants. During the 
2021 growing season, there was increased 
pest pressure, so I needed more frequent and 
reliable monitoring. I began using smart traps, 
along with the Arc™ farm intelligence platform, 
to monitor my 2,500-hectare farm. I was 
excited to bring these smart tools to the region 
as they have a reputation for being more 
effective than traditional scouting methods. 
The platform immediately alerted me to the 
moth caterpillars that had begun to infest my 
crops. With this information, I was able to 
quickly determine which products to apply and 
in what measure to control the problematic 
moth population, greatly decreasing the 
incidence of pest damage that season.
Smart trap
Credit Oscar Edralin, FMC
As agricultural technology advances, we look to broaden our capabilities through strategic collaboration and partnership. In 2021, we began working with a 
manufacturer of aerial imaging drones for advanced agricultural scouting. Manual scouting can be laborious and time-intensive, which may lead to delays in identifying 
areas of pests or disease that need immediate attention. A 120-acre farm in Kansas, U.S. experienced similar challenges in 2021 and began working with FMC to 
improve scouting methods. By strategically timing and positioning aerial imaging drones over the grower’s field, FMC was able to help the grower identify gray 
leafspot disease in an area of the field where it had previously been unidentified using traditional ground scouting. Once discovered, the grower’s retail advisor was 
quickly notified and later that day, they applied Lucento™ fungicide to immediately control the gray leafspot disease and ultimately save the farmer’s valuable yield.FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT16
PARTNERSHIPS TO ADVANCE  
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE
FMC / Irritec “On the Roots”
Farmer education on how advancements in modern 
agriculture improve sustainable productivity is a key 
component of FMC’s efforts to drive transformational 
change in agriculture. Our teams engage more than 
3 million farmers around the world, annually, through 
in-person training as well as broader awareness-
building activities. 
Last year, FMC formed a unique partnership with Irritec 
Group, a world leader in precision irrigation, to engage 
Italian farmers on topics related to sustainable farming. 
Together with Irritec, we launched “On the Roots,”  
an outreach campaign to farmers and distributors, 
designed to increase adoption of innovative solutions 
that maximize crop yield and nutrition while minimizing 
environmental impact. The campaign focused on topics 
such as increasing efficiency and optimizing water use, 
the correct use of crop protection solutions to combat 
resistance, and the use of biologicals to promote plant 
health and defend against pests and disease. 
The “On the Roots” campaign, which resulted in a 
docuseries  that aired on FMC and Irritec social media 
channels, highlighted Italian farmers who embrace 
sustainability in their business. The campaign also allowed us to hear from farmers 
about their experiences in the field, challenges they 
are facing and different choices they had to make to 
adapt to a changing environment. 
Engagement in Key Coalitions on Climate and  
Food Systems Resilience
FMC is a proud member of the Agricultural Innovation 
Mission for Climate  (AIM4C) and the Coalition 
for Sustainable Productivity Growth for Food 
Security and Resource Conservation  (SPG Coalition). 
Engagement in initiatives like AIM4C and the SPG 
Coalition is a core part of our strategy to partner across 
the agricultural value chain to address climate change 
and build more equitable, productive and resilient 
food systems. We look forward to working with other 
companies, policymakers and NGOs to accelerate 
sustainable agriculture and develop innovative 
solutions for today’s biggest challenges.
“Together with FMC we have created 
the “On the Roots” project to give voice 
to Sicilian farmers who have chosen to 
embrace the values of sustainability in 
their business.”
Giuseppe Giardina
Expert Agronomist, Irritec
“Farmers produce the food that we bring 
to our table every day. The pandemic has 
highlighted even more the importance 
of their role and the sacrifices made to 
feed and nourish people. We believe in 
the importance of modern technologies, 
which allow us to implement solutions 
to support production, safeguarding 
territory and tradition.”
Edoardo Finocchiaro
Field Marketing South Area,  FMC
FMC and Irritec representatives visit with a customer
Protecting Biodiversity  
& Natural Resources
IMPROVING SOIL HEALTH ON THE FARM
Soil is a vital component of our food 
systems – it is responsible for growing  
95 percent of the world’s food.  FMC is 
eager to help farmers preserve and improve 
the quality of their soil so they can produce 
more crops with less land, preventing further 
deforestation for agricultural use. This is 
crucial in the fight against climate change 
and in supporting global efforts to conserve 
natural resources for carbon sequestration. 
As part of our efforts to promote soil health, we 
are investing in new and emergent companies 
such as Trace Genomics, a start-up company 
that combines DNA sequencing and machine 
learning to provide farmers with data-backed 
insights on the health and productivity of their 
soil. This helps farmers make more informed 
decisions about how to best protect their 
crops from pests and disease as well as what 
nutrients the soil and plants need.To watch the “On the Roots” docuseries, visit youtube.com/channel/
UCWjrNnyRiWOtCM0zKUcsK5A .We care for our Soil.
Today we take a pledge to use appropriate 
agri-inputs and save our soil. We take a  
 pledge to keep our soil rich in organic matter 
and beneficial microbes. We take a pledge  
to take this knowledge about  
soil heath importance to our neighbors, 
families, relatives and friends.
We respect our Soil.
17
Throughout the program’s first year, FMC employees 
conducted daily farmer meetings in 240 villages across 
India, educating 100,000 farmers, distributors and 
retailers about the impact soil nutrient levels have on 
crop production. FMC also provided free soil testing, 
conducted by a certified agronomist, which measured 
several aspects of soil health, including pH, EC, organic 
matter and nutrient status. Farmers received a report 
on their soil quality as well as guidance on creating 
optimal fertility conditions for plant growth. 
What sets UGAM apart is its innovative approach  
to engaging farmers. The FMC team travels to 
farming villages in a large passenger van equipped 
with videos, virtual reality simulators and interactive 
games for farmers to learn more about maintaining 
healthy ecosystems. The program seeks to transform 
the traditional farmer meeting into an immersive,  
3D theater experience that is both entertaining  
and educational. Project UGAM
Soil health is one of the most important factors driving 
agricultural productivity in India. But the quality of 
India’s soil has been in decline, largely due to improper 
agricultural practices, such as the overuse of fertilizers. 
While farmers appreciate the importance of caring 
for their soil, few have the technical expertise and 
knowledge of soil dynamics to markedly improve their 
soil health. The result is lower yields and lower income 
for smallholder farmers across India. 
To help farmers in India improve their soil, and 
ultimately increase yields, FMC launched Project 
UGAM  (“Rising Upwards”), a unique, industry-
leading national soil health awareness campaign. 
UGAM lives up to its tagline, ACCHI SAMAJH, ACCHI 
UPAJ (“Good Understanding, Good Harvest”) by 
empowering farmers with the right information and 
tools to manage their soil more sustainably. WITHIN ITS FIRST YEAR, 
PROJECT UGAM HAS 
EDUCATED 100,000 
FARMERS ACROSS 240 
VILLAGES IN INDIA.At the end of the session, farmers make a “ Soil Pledge ,” 
in which they commit to doing their part to stop soil 
degradation by adopting sustainable farming practices 
and sharing their knowledge and experience with 
others in their communities. 
Protecting soil health is critical to supporting farmers in 
their vital role of feeding the world’s growing population 
while conserving natural resources for the future. FMC 
conducts similar soil health programs across the Asia 
Pacific region and is evaluating opportunities to expand 
into other regions. 
FMC Soil Pledge
Farmers participate in trivia games 
to learn about soil health
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT18
India Water Stewardship Program
Agriculture in India accounts for more than 80 
percent* of the surface water used across the 
country. Amid growing concerns about water scarcity 
exacerbated by rising global temperatures, we 
launched a World Water Day campaign to promote 
water stewardship on farms across the country.
In 2021, FMC’s India team hosted more than 400 
knowledge-sharing sessions with farmers across 
18 states, reaching more than 14,000 members of 
India’s farming community. Each session focused 
on good agricultural practices for enhancing farm 
sustainability, and shared different methods to 
optimize water use and enhance efficiency.“On World Water Day 2021, our focus was on educating farmers on best 
practices to enhance sustainable management of freshwater resources. 
We have been partnering with Indian farmers across crop chains and 
geographies to drive sustainability and improve productivity for over three 
decades in India. We have over 4,000 technical field experts who engage 
with over two million farmers annually to promote sustainable agricultural 
practices for a better future. Our goal is to empower the farming community  
and raise their living standards through various initiatives and community  
outreach programs such as Project Samarth. ”Pramod Thota , interim President for FMC’s  
Asia Pacific Region and President of FMC U.S. 
problem that has resulted in adverse healthcare, 
economic and social impacts. The issue is even more 
profound in rural areas, which can have serious 
implications for farming families. 
In partnership with Drexel University and the 
Rural Economic and Educational Development 
Society (REEDS), FMC’s Project Samarth  (Hindi for 
Empowered) is a three-year program to make potable 
water accessible to India’s rural communities. To date, 
Project Samarth has commissioned 44 community 
water purification plants  in the states of Uttar 
Pradesh and Punjab,  benefiting nearly 120,000 
farming families.  FMC is currently expanding the 
program’s reach to cover five more states. 
Through initiatives like the World Water Day  
campaign and Project Samarth, we remain committed 
to protecting natural resources and uplifting rural 
communities around the world.
PROMOTING POLLINATOR HEALTH
Pollinator protection is a priority for FMC. Nature’s 
pollinators are vital allies of farmers around the world 
and support an estimated 35 percent of the world’s 
food crops. They include honey bees, bumblebees, 
solitary bees, beneficial wasps and butterflies. Bees, for example, pollinate apples, strawberries, 
avocados and cucumbers, among many other food 
crops, representing nearly $20 billion of crop value in 
the U.S. each year. Without pollination, production of 
certain crops would be in peril.
Many factors affect bee 
health, so it is important 
that we collaborate 
with entomologists and 
biologists who are working specifically on this issue. 
We are a founding member of Keystone Coalition on 
Honey Bee Health , working with experts through the 
Coalition to focus on all aspects of this issue, with the 
goal of achieving lasting ways to protect honey bees 
throughout the world.
In 2021, we became a sponsor of FieldWatch®,  
a non-profit company that supports the protection 
of pollinators through innovative technologies that 
help farmers, beekeepers and pesticide applicators 
better communicate and collaborate on stewardship 
activities. We are also a memb er of Farmers for 
Monarchs, which identifies and implements sol utions 
on agricultural and ranching lands to support the 
revival of monarch butterfly populations.
FMC’S INDIA TEAM 
HOSTED  MORE THAN 400 
KNOWLEDGE-SHARING 
SESSIONS WITH FARMERS.
* Statistic taken from India Water Portal.For those who could not physically attend the 
knowledge-sharing sessions, FMC conducted virtual 
sessions via social media channels, and in doing so were 
able to reach an additional 28,000 farmers, and over 
700 channel partners and 120 government officials. 
In addition to education on sustainable farming, our 
team used the knowledge-sharing sessions to raise 
awareness about the dangers of poor water quality. 
Unsafe drinking water in India is a significant health 
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME19
Building Pollinator Habitats at FMC
As part of our overall pollinator protection efforts, we 
have planted pollinator habitats at six FMC locations 
across North America. The project, conducted in 
consultation with the Bee & Butterfly Habitat Fund, 
involves planting native plant varieties, suited for the 
local conditions at each site. The plants are chosen 
based on their benefits to specific pollinator species 
such as honey bees and monarch butterflies. 
This work can involve up to a year of site preparation 
before the habitat is planted to ensure optimal 
growing conditions. The most advanced habitat is 
at our research station in Illinois, U.S. The habitat 
flourished during 2021, with different species 
flowering at different times throughout the summer 
months, creating everchanging blankets of red, white, 
orange, blue and yellow. As a part of site tours, 
business partners and community groups visited the 
habitats and received information about pollinators 
and the importance of pollinator protection.The habitat will support a diversity of pollinators across 
all stages of their lifecycles as well as provide employees 
a unique opportunity to engage with these ecosystems. 
Educating and Engaging Employees on Pollinators
In celebration of World Environment Day, we hosted 
a global webcast titled Pollinators, Agriculture and 
You - How Each of Us Plays a Role in Protecting 
Biodiversity  with Pete Berthelsen, Partnership 
Director, Bee & Butterfly Habitat Fund and President, 
Conservation Blueprint, LLC. A renowned wildlife 
conservationist and pollinator habitat expert, Pete 
shared his expertise on the importance of pollinators 
to the world’s ecosystems and what the agriculture 
industry and FMC employees can do to help restore 
and protect pollinator habitats.Pheromones are highly targeted (species-specific) 
and therefore do not disrupt the behavior of 
beneficial insects. They are most effective when used 
in an integrated pest management (IPM) program with 
precision agriculture technologies that help farmers 
monitor pest presence and target emerging hotspots. 
For these reasons, pheromone-based pest control can 
play an important role in improving crop yields while 
protecting biodiversity on the farm. 
Mating disruption is already a proven method of 
insect control in fruits and vegetables markets. 
BioPhero has made important advancements that 
allow the technology to be used in row crops , 
bringing cutting-edge, sustainable solutions to a 
whole new segment of farmers globally. 
We look forward to expanding our relationship with 
BioPhero over the next few years.BEE POLLINATION 
REPRESENTS NEARLY  
$20 BILLION  OF CROP 
VALUE IN THE U.S.
At the Stine Research Center, our global R&D campus 
in Delaware, U.S., we planted over an acre of 
insect refuge in 2021. We are currently expanding 
the Research Farm space with a pollinator refuge 
of approximately four acres and developing an 
environmental immersion habitat within the main site. 
19
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEInnovating Solutions to Protect Crops  
and Enhance Biodiversity
FMC is exploring opportunities in pheromones  
as biological crop protection, for example, with 
BioPhero , a biotechnology company that has  
created a proprietary production platform for the 
development of pheromone-based pest control 
solutions. Pheromones work as a pest control by 
disrupting the mating patterns of insects. By releasing 
insect pheromones in a field, the male’s ability to 
locate the female is disrupted, preventing mating and 
subsequent generations of crop-damaging insects. OUR  
IMPERATIVESNewNew ENGAGEMENT
Seeing beyond our individual differences and interests to  
forge deeper and more productive relationships  with farmers, 
business partners, our communities and each other.
Expand our relationships and reach to  
ensure  fair and equitable opportunities  
for partners  across our value chainCultivate a diverse, equitable  
and inclusive workplaceEnrich lives and livelihoods   
of minority and smallholder farmers 
Invest in programs and partnerships  
that strengthen the communities   
where we live and work
Actively participate in key  
coalitions on climate action  
and food systems resilienceCultivating a  
Diverse, Equitable, 
Inclusive Workplace
THE NEW DEI STRATEGY AT FMC
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) are core to who  
we are at FMC. Over the past year we have taken 
important steps on our journey to be an inclusive 
company. In 2021, we promoted ZsaNell Smith to 
Director of Global DEI to advance our global DEI strategy 
and ensure our efforts continue to make a positive 
impact on our employees, community and industry. 
Diversity:  Our employees reflect the communities 
in which we live and work.
Inclusion:  Every employee feels engaged, valued 
and respected regardless of their differences.Equity:  Our organizational systems (policies, 
procedures and practices) provide fair and equal 
treatment for all employees.DEI at FMC means ensuring:
UN Sustainable Development Goal Alignment:2022 – 2023  
PRIORITIES
Our new global DEI strategy ensures we create 
opportunities, remove barriers and implement 
meaningful programs across five key areas: Workforce 
Diversity, Workplace Equity, Inclusive Culture, 
Business & Community Impact and Governance.  
While we are making progress against our strategy, 
we have work to do that ensures we drive real 
systemic and cultural change. As we move forward, 
our position on DEI remains the same – diversity, 
equity and inclusion must be valued, embraced, 
celebrated and encouraged to flourish in every part  
of our company globally.Attract, retain and 
develop diverse talent  
at all levels of the 
organizationWorkforce Diversity 
Expand DEI programming 
to educate, engage and 
build advocacy among 
employeesInclusive Culture
Establish infrastructure 
to coordinate, measure 
and promote DEI  
efforts globallyGovernance
Ensure company policies 
and procedures provide fair 
and equal opportunities for 
all employeesWorkplace Equity
Deepen and expand our 
relationships with diverse 
customers, suppliers, community 
and industry partnersBusiness &  
Community Impact
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME
21
Expand Supplier Diversity; 
establish diverse  
supplier goals2
Launch a Retention and Belonging 
Office; accelerate progress on 
workforce diversity1
Develop 3- to 5-year business 
plan focused on smallholder 
farmers in Asia Pacific3
Explore our Workplace Metrics at  
FMC.com/sustainability/sustainability-data-and-reporting .FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT22
PROGRESS ON WORKFORCE DIVERSITY GOALS 
We continue to make progress toward our workforce 
diversity goals and objectives that demonstrate our 
commitment to gender balance and race equity.  
These include: 
 •Increase the percentage of Black/African 
American employees in our U.S. workforce  
to 14 percent by 2027. 
 •Increase the percentage of women in our  
global workforce to 50 percent by 2027. 
Our taskforce teams for Gender Equity  and Social 
Justice & Race Equity  drive much of our work to 
implement programs, initiatives and actions to 
accelerate annual progress against our goals. Key 
highlights and achievements of taskforce efforts include:
New Hire Peer Champion Program Pilot: A peer  
sponsor program focused on improving the onboarding 
of employees. Peer sponsors engage with new  
hires to ensure they feel welcomed, valued and 
supported in their transition. Communicating our company’s purpose, values and commitment to 
diversity, equity and inclusion is a core part of an 
employee’s onboarding experience.
Gender Equity Listening Sessions: A series of 
dialogues between senior leadership, Employee 
Resource Groups, Inclusion Councils and women across 
the company. Insights gained from the sessions have 
helped to inform the key focus areas for our Gender 
Equity taskforce: Corporate Focus (Hiring, Mobility, 
Development, Career Growth) and Manufacturing 
Focus (led and driven by Operations Leadership 
Team). We are making strong progress in both areas, 
especially in Operations, which makes up almost half  
of our global employee population. Read more about 
our gender equity work in Operations on page 26.
Diverse Recruiting Partnerships:  Our Social 
Justice & Race Equity team identified and prioritized 
partnerships with academic institutions, including 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), 
community and other organizations to further diversify 
our talent pipeline. For example, we are expanding 
our relationship with Minorities in Agriculture Natural Resources and Related Sciences (MANRRS) 
organization in the U.S. and building upon local 
programs across the globe with high schools, colleges 
and universities to create talent pipelines.
As we move forward, we will continue to enhance 
hiring, onboarding and employee retention programs 
to help us achieve these goals, which includes 
expanding efforts to support retention of employees 
from underrepresented groups.
This year our new Retention and Belonging Office  
will support employees through their professional 
journey at FMC. Employees will have an opportunity 
to work with a career coach on various job-related 
challenges and opportunities to enrich their career 
journeys at FMC. 
Female Representation  
As of December 31, 2021
22
30.4 %WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
POSITIONS INCREASED FROM 34 
PERCENT IN 2020 TO 37 PERCENT IN 
2021. AMONG THE WOMEN PROMOTED 
TO SENIOR POSITIONS, TWO WERE 
APPOINTED  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.  FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Women in Senior Management
32%
 2019
34%
 2020
37%
 2021Black/African American Representation  
As of December 31, 2021
9.4 %
Achieve 50 percent  
representation   
in the global workforce
2027 Goal
Achieve 14 percent  
representation   
in the U.S. workforce
2027 GoalFOR GENERATIONS TO COME23
MAKING FMC A GREAT PLACE TO WORK
Despite experiencing yet another unprecedented year 
in 2021, our global network of Employee Resource 
Groups  (ERGs) and Regional Inclusion Councils  
remained very active, pivoting to execute key 
programs virtually. These groups help drive employee 
engagement and support our global DEI strategy. 
Our Regional Inclusion Councils and ERGs facilitate 
events and programs that celebrate diversity, increase 
awareness and understanding of inclusion concepts 
and build allyship. They also leverage partnerships 
to address local DEI needs. Our signature global DEI 
efforts include:Inclusion Month
FMC officially dedicates October to Inclusion Month 
to celebrate our diverse workforce. Events are 
created and led by employees, highlighting the 
unique voices, viewpoints and backgrounds of 
employees across the globe. 
International Women’s Day and  
Women’s History Month
During Women’s History Month (WHM), the global 
DEI team, in partnership with the Women’s Initiative 
Network (WIN) ERG and Regional Inclusion Councils, 
organizes a series of events and programs to celebrate 
the achievements and contributions of women at FMC 
globally. This year we celebrated WHM with a global 
keynote event featuring Diane Allemang, Executive 
Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, who gave 
a powerful talk on the theme #BreakTheBias , and a 
dynamic panel of women leaders from each region.
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
LATAM Regional Inclusion Council 
Highlights (LIC)
WHM 2022 HAD OVER 1,000 
EMPLOYEES JOIN GLOBAL AND 
REGIONAL EVENTS  - OUR HIGHEST 
PARTICIPATION LEVEL YET.• Launched LATAM ERGs in April 2021.    
• Experienced an increase of more than 370 percent of 
the number of employees who signed up for LATAM’s 
ERGs since launching (from April-December 2021).
Regional Inclusion Councils
APAC  |  LATAM  |  North America  |  EMEA
APAC Regional Inclusion Council 
Highlights (APIC)
• Launched regional “Mosaic” newsletter as a forum to 
bring wider awareness to the activities under DEI.
• Launched female key talent program, Ignite, in 
November 2021. 
• Female representation increased from 24.7 percent 
to 25.8 percent; a net increase of 60 women as of 
October 2021.
• Conducted a Mental Health Awareness Campaign, 
“It’s OK not to be OK” throughout the year via 
multiple mental health sessions and events.  
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT24
LGBTQ+ Inclusion at FMC
In 2021, FMC joined the Human Rights Campaign’s 
Business Coalition for the Equality Act in support 
of legal LGBTQ+ equality.  FMC’s Government Affairs 
team was instrumental in advancing our endorsement 
of this important U.S. legislation. 
FMC’s LGBTQ+ ERG, Spectrum, worked with Human 
Resources (HR) on LGBTQ+ inclusion in FMC’s  
human resources and recruiting practices. Efforts 
focused on understanding the challenges faced by 
transgender and gender non-conforming employees 
in the workplace specifically in navigating a 
company’s HR infrastructure. Thanks to their work, 
FMC’s Employee Central Talent Profile now 
includes an option for employees to provide their 
pronouns and chosen first name. Advancing Women  
in Agriculture
While much progress has been made on gender 
equity in business and in broader society, the  
fight for fair and equal opportunities for women 
isn’t over, and in many parts of the world, 
has only just begun. At FMC, we understand 
real progress is made by taking steps 
every single day that over time amount to 
lasting systemic and cultural change. For 
us, it’s about removing barriers, creating 
opportunities and addressing bias at every 
level of the organization.
FMC scored 100 percent for a third consecutive 
year  on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 
Corporate Equality Index, a U.S. benchmarking survey 
measuring corporate policies and practices related to 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) 
workplace equality. 
Spotlight on DEI Employee Engagement in Action 
North America HONOR and The Bridge
The HONOR ERG , whose mission is to honor the legacy and sacrifices of FMC’s veteran employees in 
North America, had an impactful year, expanding its membership to over 70 employees across the region. 
The group has successfully implemented chapters at each of FMC’s North American sites, including the 
FMC Tower, FMC Stine Research Center and production plants at Mobile, Alabama; Middleport, New York; 
Wyoming, Illinois; and Manati, Puerto Rico.
The Bridge ERG  celebrated the launch of two new sub-groups in 2021: LatinX and Indigenous Peoples  
of the World (IPOW). 
 •LatinX ERG:  The mission of LatinX is to advocate for and empower the Hispanic and Latin  
American community within FMC by showcasing our cultural diversity, providing global networking 
opportunities and raising awareness about LatinX social and professional experiences. LatinX 
launched in September 2021. 
 •Indigenous Peoples of the World ERG (IPOW): The mission of IPOW is to educate our organization 
and acknowledge the First People from all regions of the World. IPOW launched in November 2021.FOR GENERATIONS TO COME25
I am Bindiya Vandra and I am a Quality and Laboratory 
Leader at FMC’ s manufacturing site and I am proud to 
be one of the first female employees at the plant.
When you talk about manufacturing, I think many 
people think it is labor-intensive, only suited for men 
and that they are low-skill and lower-class jobs.
These are misperceptions that discourage a lot of 
women entering manufacturing roles and it hinders 
their career prospects. Just because I look a certain 
way doesn’t mean I cannot do the job.
I am lucky that my husband has been very supportive 
throughout my 15-year long career.
At FMC, I am able to spend time doing the things I love, 
like traveling and learning Kathak.
It’s wonderful to know that I am not just another 
number but an individual whose well-being is a priority.
FMC provides transportation to and from my 
workplace. This makes me feel safe. I don’t worry 
about working late, if I must.
I work with engineers to ensure our processes meet 
world-class standards.
I lead an analytical team to ensure our raw materials 
and crop protection products are tested to consistently 
adhere to the highest standards of quality.I feel empowered by my leaders and supported by my 
co-workers and that’s how we succeed as a team.
I want to succeed and grow in Operations, taking on 
bigger responsibilities.
Earlier in my career, when I had shared my ideas with 
others, they just couldn’t accept that a woman can 
come up with ideas of her own - ideas that are good, 
unique and powerful. I kept having to convince them.
You might worry about facing hurdles especially in a 
male dominated industry.
But, if you work for a company that encourages gender 
diversity and provides equal footing for women, then 
you’ll find that your worry is easily put to rest.
That is FMC for me! With time, all roadblocks disappear.
So, keep going, it’s just a matter of time before  
you succeed.
I am Bindiya Vandra and  
I am a trailblazer at FMC.Bindiya Vandra  
Quality and Laboratory Leader , Savli, India25
To watch this interview and other FMC Trailblazer stories, visit youtube.com/watch?v=loZkLNjC_Ps .FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT26
Vacuum lifter  
Ungaran, Indonesia
Movable pallet lifters  
Suzhou, China EMPOWERING WOMEN IN MANUFACTURING
After committing to a gender balance goal of 50 
percent women in the global workforce by 2027 , 
we set out to understand where the gaps and 
opportunities are across the company. Operations 
is one area we focused on. At the beginning of 
2021, women accounted for only 23.9 percent 
of employees in Operations. We knew that if we 
wanted to change our culture, we had to start with  
our manufacturing sites.
We engaged leaders at each of the sites to ensure 
they understood and were equipped to support the 
company’s gender goal. Then we began work to 
improve job structures, workplace environment and 
infrastructure to make manufacturing jobs accessible 
to anyone. These include automating certain tasks 
to reduce manual handling and making ergonomic 
changes to jobs that require heavy lifting, allowing 
people of all physical capabilities to perform the 
job. We also made infrastructural changes at our 
manufacturing sites to ensure accessibility and 
consideration for our female workforce. These included 
adding/updating changing rooms, lactation rooms, 
bathrooms with showers as well as some gender-
neutral facilities. In some countries where women’s 
safety is a particular concern, we are providing female 
employees working evening and early morning shifts 
with safe transport to and from the sites. 
Finally, we looked outside of our company to the 
communities and the culture in which we operate, 
to create opportunities for women that might not 
otherwise exist. We established partnerships with 
local industry groups, universities and high schools to 
raise awareness among female students about career 
opportunities in STEM. We also provided internships and 
apprenticeship programs to help young women develop 
their skills and prepare them for operations-based roles. As a result of these and other efforts, we increased 
our overall representation of women in Operations 
and had several notable firsts, including the first 
female in Formulations Operations in Australia, 
first female Quality Manager in India and the first 
female Production leader in Brazil. Our Panoli, India 
and Uberaba, Brazil sites are two outstanding 
examples of the progress that can be made when 
team members are committed and passionate 
about a goal. We hired nine female employees 
at Panoli and female representation at Uberaba 
doubled between 2020 and 2021. 
As we progress toward our overall workforce diversity 
goals, each step forward demonstrates the cultural shift 
happening within our company and in the communities 
in which we operate. We are very proud of our teams 
who are leading this change and driving greater 
diversity, equity and inclusion across our company.
Spotlight on Uberaba Women’s Development Program
Our Uberaba operations team partnered with local entities and industry associations in the region to deliver 
a career development workshop to over 200 women. The workshop focused on preparing women to take 
on operations-based roles. From the workshop, we brought in several apprentices to give them hands-on 
experience and training specific to working in a manufacturing facility. As a result of the program, we hired 
five new female employees at the site. FOR GENERATIONS TO COME27
SPOTLIGHT ON FMC LEAD PROGRAM - 
AUSTRALIA-NEW ZEALAND 
Women currently comprise approximately half of the 
agricultural workforce in Australia but occupy just 
23.3 percent* of key management positions within  
the sector. FMC is determined to change that.
As part of FMC’s focus on providing more equitable 
opportunities for women to progress their careers and 
participate at senior leadership levels, the Australia-
New Zealand (ANZ) team launched the LEAD 
scholarship program in 2021. 
Designed to support the next generation of female 
leaders, the inaugural program is for women between 
the ages of 18-35 who are involved in agriculture in 
Australia or New Zealand. The application process 
provides a platform for women to share their 
perspective on key challenges the industry is facing 
and propose solutions in one of three areas:  
The program offers two successful applicants 
development opportunities through idea sharing, 
networking and a tailored education package.
* Figure taken from the Workplace Gender Equity (WGEA) workforce management statistics report 2021.“Australian agriculture can only benefit from 
supporting women like Kareena and Malkah who 
can offer more diversity of thought. Seeing more 
young female graduates entering the sector is 
promising, but the key is bringing that diversity  
through the ranks to senior management to 
continue building diversity in decisions and 
strategic direction.”
Kristina Hermanson
Managing Director, ANZ & ASEANIn 2021, Kareena Pritchard , a Group Financial 
Controller at Pursehouse Rural in Tamworth NSW and 
Malkah Lara Muckenschnabl , a Bendigo VIC-based 
Agribusiness Graduate, were selected for the program. 
Malkah’s program submission offered an innovative 
approach to addressing sustainability challenges 
through a unique recruitment strategy for the 
agriculture workforce. Kareena’s passion for rural 
communities shone through in her submission, which 
addressed some of the biggest issues in Australian 
agriculture today. Recently completing a LEAD Program Design Thinking 
for Innovation course, Kareena says, “ The course has 
provided me with functional management skills and 
my entire perspective on how I approach challenges 
and innovation in the workplace has shifted; the skills 
I have learned will enable me to create real change. ”
Kareena also reflected on her time in the program, 
saying, “ Through the program, FMC has provided a 
platform for me to begin building a network in the 
industry. As an introvert, I have always tended to 
shy away from networking, but this entire experience 
has made me realize how important networking is 
if you want to make a difference. I was able to meet 
so many inspiring people through this scholarship, 
and they were all so welcoming. I hope to continue 
building relationships in the industry to learn as 
much as I can from those around me. ”
1Innovation  - how we can drive the adoption 
of new technologies in agriculture;
2Sustainability  - the meaning, practices and 
behaviors that need to change for us to be truly 
sustainable and feed a growing world; 
3Rural Communities  - how corporate 
Australia, including FMC, can support the 
development of locally grown leaders who 
will bring positive change and sustainability 
to regional communities.
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC’S LEAD  PROGRAM 
IN ANZ IS DESIGNED TO  
SUPPORT THE NEXT 
GENERATION OF 
FEMALE LEADERS.FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT28
Our Commitment to  
Underrepresented Farmers 
A healthy food system is one that is inclusive, 
providing equal opportunities for producers and 
access to nutritious foods for all. However, as 
advancements in sustainable farming accelerate food 
systems transformation, some continue to get left 
behind. There continue to be large discrepancies in 
how farmers are engaged, equipped and supported. 
We are committed to ensuring fair and equitable 
access to the latest innovations in sustainable FMC PAKISTAN SALES FIELD TRAINEE PROGRAM 
With limited career choices for female graduates in 
rural areas of Pakistan, FMC established a Sales Field 
Trainee Program to help increase gender diversity in 
field-based roles. 
The program is targeted to women enrolled in 
agriculture programs in the region and leverages 
partnerships with local universities, including the 
Agriculture University of Faisalabad, University of 
Punjab and Muhammad Nawaz Sharif Agriculture 
University of Multan, to reach potential participants. 
In 2021, five students enrolled in the program and 
underwent over two months of practical, hands-on 
training to learn the complete sales job cycle. Following 
the training, two of the participants, Anum Intisar and 
Zareema Khan, joined FMC as full-time employees, 
becoming the first women to hold field-based roles 
for a crop protection company in Pakistan. 
crop protection including precision and digital 
technologies. As part of this, we are empowering our 
teams around the world to partner with and invest in 
smallholder-, minority- and women-owned farms to 
promote sustainable farming globally.
SUPPORTING BLACK GROWERS IN THE U.S.
Today, just 1.4 percent of growers in the U.S. identify 
as Black or African American compared to about 
14 percent 100 years ago. Less than 1 percent of 
farmland is operated by Black growers and revenues 
from these farms represent just 0.5 percent of total 
U.S. farm sales.* Since the initial launch, the sales field trainee program 
continues to grow and develop with many more 
women enrolled in the program.
“I was always passionate about meeting 
different people, helping farmers and 
working with our community. However, 
in a male-dominated industry, this was 
not a career option for me. That was 
until FMC launched the trainee program. 
Initially, I received some pushback from 
customers in the field who were not used 
to seeing a female sales officer. However, 
FMC’s conducive working environment 
and the support provided by the Pakistan 
team have encouraged a shift in the 
mindset of farmers who now support and 
promote FMC’s gender diversity targets.”
Zarmeena Khan
FMC Sales Officer
28Ronaldo Pereira, Executive Vice 
President and President, FMC 
Americas and Phillip (PJ) Haynie 
III, Owner of Haynie Farms and 
Chairman of National Black 
Growers Council, at a Model Farm 
tour in Georgia, U.S.
29
Further, Black growers 
are often overlooked 
for programs, 
incentives, new 
products or technology 
that can increase 
their productivity and competitiveness. We heard 
this from many growers when we held a series 
of listening sessions in partnership with the 
National Black Growers Council (NBGC) to better 
understand the unique challenges of Blacks and 
African Americans in maintaining and growing 
their farming operations. 
After these sessions, we took a hard look at the issues 
and determined we had to do more to ensure future 
generations of Black growers are successful.
For FMC, this is about being intentional and about 
making a deliberate effort to engage underrepresented 
farming communities. For example, last summer we 
partnered with the NBGC to facilitate a series of 
Model Farm tours for Black and African American 
growers in the southern U.S. Our technical, research 
and commercial teams provided information and 
demonstrations of FMC’s technologies, including 
our 3RIVE 3D® application system and Arc™ farm 
intelligence platform, and discussed opportunities with 
growers interested in bringing the latest agricultural 
technology to their farms. 
Ongoing engagement will be critical as technologies 
continue to advance – so we are building our team 
to ensure we have people and resources dedicated 
to supporting underrepresented farmers today and in the future.  Last year, 
we created a new Special 
Accounts Manager position 
to focus on and serve 
underrepresented growers 
in the U.S. In addition, 
we are leveraging our 
partnerships across the 
industry to support efforts 
to increase diversity, 
equity and inclusion in 
agriculture. For example, we partner with the United 
Soybean Board who has committed to provide funding 
to help continue and expand the Model Farm series for 
Black growers in the U.S.
While we know we have a lot of work to do and there 
is a long road ahead of us, we are optimistic that 
these and other efforts will begin to create more fair 
and equitable opportunities for generations of Black 
and African American growers across the country.
IMPROVING CROP YIELDS OF SMALLHOLDER 
FARMERS IN THE PHILIPPINES 
Improving sustainable productivity of smallholder 
farming communities across the ASEAN region 
has long been a priority for FMC. One example is a 
program we have been running for rice farmers in the 
Philippines since 2019. The program, known as the 
200 Cavan (10 MT) Challenge, provides farmers tools 
and training to significantly increase crop yields.
Over the course of the growing season, our teams visit 
Challenge participants to address problems they are 
facing and recommend targeted solutions to improve 
field productivity. One of the solutions farmers are 
encouraged to use for crop protection is Prevathon® 
insect control, which is powered by Rynaxypyr® active. Rynaxypyr® active is a unique mode of action 
insecticide that eliminates the need for multiple 
applications per season. In addition to guidance 
on specific inputs, our teams advise farmers on the 
proper use of crop protection products, following the 
recommended timing and dose rate while considering 
resistance management in their spray program. With 
the right rice production management, farmers were 
able to significantly improve their yields.
In 2021, 90 percent of the farmers who participated 
in the third season of the 200 Cavan Challenge 
achieved increased yields compared to their 
previous harvest. About half were able to achieve 
the 200 Cavan (10MT) yield. For comparison, the 
average yield of the country is just 4-5MT. On average, 
participants saw a 50 percent increase , which can be 
life-changing for some smallholder farmers. 
* Figure taken from Black farmers in the US: The opportunity for addressing racial disparities in farming | McKinsey .
“Through programs like this, we help many 
Filipino farmers realize they can improve 
rice production with the right technology 
and proper rice production management.”
Veronica Tiburcio
Country Manager of FMC in the Philippines
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT30
Notably, FMC’s Ungaran, Indonesia site received the 
Best Company Award for Preventing the Spread 
of COVID-19  by the Regent of Semarang H. Ngesti 
Nugraha. Out of 430 private companies operating 
in the Semarang Regency. Only two companies 
received this recognition. The award was conferred 
based on several assessments and observations local 
government teams made through impromptu visits  
to the plant. SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES  
THROUGH AN ONGOING PANDEMIC
COVID-19 continued to disrupt many aspects of our 
lives throughout 2021, but through the challenges 
came opportunity for community outreach, connection 
and innovation. Many of our sites demonstrated 
exemplary community leadership, particularly in 
public health, donating personal protective equipment, 
hosting blood drives and community vaccination 
clinics, and raising awareness about how to stay safe 
and healthy during the pandemic. For example, at 
our Lahore, Pakistan site, as the country experienced 
its second COVID-19 wave, the team hosted a 
COVID Awareness Day for community members that 
featured guest speakers, educational activities and 
games to encourage mask wearing, social distancing 
and regular hand washing.FMC’S UNGARAN SITE WAS 
ONE OF TWO  COMPANIES TO 
RECEIVE THE BEST COMPANY 
AWARD FOR PREVENTING 
THE SPREAD OF COVID-19.
Community Engagement Index  
Progress as of December 31, 2021
Achieve 100%  on the  
Community Engagement Index
2025 Goal
84%Building Strong Communities
FMC’s overall 2021 Community Engagement score 
was impacted by widespread restrictions on in-person 
gatherings. We continue to learn and develop new ways to 
positively impact our communities beyond in-person events.FOR GENERATIONS TO COME31
COMA BEM  REACHES 
ALMOST 180,000 PEOPLE 
ANNUALLY  THROUGHOUT 
LATIN AMERICA.COMA BEM (EAT WELL)
Educating Communities About  
Healthy Food Systems
Educating consumers about the source of our food 
– from the land to the farmer to their table – is an 
important part of building strong, healthy communities 
and reducing food waste. 
Coma Bem, an FMC social media campaign 
originating in Brazil, aims to teach people of all 
ages about sustainable food production and the 
fundamental role of farmers and agriculture in 
ensuring access to safe, nutritious food. The series 
features stories and facts about food systems and 
sustainable farming practices that help to conserve 
soil and water and protect biodiversity. 
Coma Bem Objectives
 •Educate the public about food systems.
 •Explain the importance of healthy food systems to combating hunger and malnutrition  
(UN SDG Zero Hunger).
 •Promote the value of sustainable agriculture and how FMC contributes to it.
 •Raise awareness about healthy, sustainable, responsible consumption.
31
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT32
so it is important that I open up and speak for myself. 
I’ve become more motivated when people around 
me see the difference in me. I am more energized, 
yes, I am remarkable. I am grateful to all who have 
contributed to this great program. ”
SCIENCE LEADERS SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
In 2021, FMC launched the Science Leaders 
Scholarship Program at major agricultural schools 
across India. The program is a multi-year commitment 
to create greater opportunities for aspiring scientists in 
agricultural research. Each year, 20 scholarships will be 
awarded to 10 students pursuing PhDs and another 10 
students pursuing MSc studies in agricultural sciences. 
Fifty percent of the scholarships have been earmarked 
for female candidates to encourage more women in 
India to pursue careers in the agricultural sector. 
In addition to funding, participants are awarded 
internships with FMC, giving them practical experience 
to launch their careers in areas such as R&D, 
Regulatory, Sales, Marketing and Precision Agriculture. “Agricultural innovation is booming in India, gaining 
global recognition. The Scholarship Program creates 
opportunities for students to be at the forefront of 
this growth, working in a world-class organization 
surrounded by some of the best minds in the field. We 
want to encourage them to pursue rewarding careers 
in the agriculture industry and eventually contribute to 
India’s reputation as a global research and innovation 
hub, ” said Ravi Annavarapu, President, FMC India.
Upon graduation from their respective universities, 
students are considered for full-time employment 
opportunities with FMC.
FMC AND HEALTHY FOODS FOR HEALTHY KIDS
Since 2019, FMC has partnered with Healthy Foods for 
Healthy Kids (HFHK) to bring garden-based education 
to K-12 schools throughout the state of Delaware, U.S. 
HFHK’s science-based programs engage students in 
hands-on learning activities that teach them about 
modern agriculture and healthy food production.
Thanks in part to FMC’s sponsorship, HFHK added 
five new school gardens  in 2021, bringing their total 
to 37 schools  and 14,000 students  served. In addition:
 •1,454 seed packets were distributed  as part 
of our seed giveaway, a yearly event started 
to reach students and their families during the 
COVID-19 lockdown. 
 •Approximately 4,000 pounds of produce were 
grown  in 2021 alone. 
 •An estimated 870 pounds of fresh vegetables were 
donated  to local food pantries and food closets. 
 •HFHK produced 21 teacher-training and  
in-classroom video lessons , supporting pivots  
to virtual learning.Inspiring the  
Next Generation
EDUCATING GIRLS OF RURAL CHINA
FMC is a proud partner of Educating Girls of Rural 
China (EGRC) , a Canadian charity dedicated to 
providing high school and university educations to 
impoverished young women from rural regions of 
Western China. Through our partnership, we have 
been able to provide financial sponsorships, access 
to technology, development opportunities and 
mentorship to girls throughout the region. 
In 2021, we sponsored the GROW Leadership Program  
for 30 girls supported by the charity. The program theme 
was “Exploring Me & Shanghai, Becoming A Better 
One,” and was focused on career-related topics. The 
highlight of the program was the #IAmRemarkable  
workshop, a Google initiative empowering women 
and underrepresented groups in over 50 countries to 
celebrate their achievements in the workplace and 
beyond. The workshop was led by a young female 
employee from Google China who shared her 
unique experience growing up in rural China 
and later working for renowned companies. 
She also facilitated activities that taught 
participants how to use facts-based 
self-promotion to expand their 
professional opportunities. 
Lin Hui, a university student 
who participated in the 
program, shared,  
“I am now aware my 
achievements cannot 
speak for themselves, 
“Achieving gender equity both within and 
outside of our company is very important 
to us. We are working enthusiastically to 
promote the development of women in 
agriculture and are eager to help more 
young women from rural China rise up 
under the GROW Leadership Program. 
We are seeing firsthand how the Program 
helps them become more confident and 
better equipped to advance their careers 
and lead meaningful lives.”
Tracy Wu
China President, Business Director, North AsiaFOR GENERATIONS TO COME33
Our employees also participate on the HFHK Board 
and volunteer their time building school gardens. 
In 2021, FMC volunteers helped rebuild four 
school gardens  at Marshall, Brader, Wilson and 
McVey Elementary Schools in Delaware. Their effort 
ensured that nearly 1,400 students  are growing their 
vegetables in fresh soil and sowing the benefits of 
eating what they grow. From the four rebuilt gardens, 
approximately 360 pounds  of produce per growing 
season (two per year) will grow! 
“We are thrilled to support HFHK’s school garden 
program because it allows kids to discover firsthand 
the amazing process of bringing food from the farm 
to their plate, ” said Karen Totland, FMC Vice President 
and Chief Sustainability Officer.Our McVey Garden Story 
The McVey Garden was set to be revived in the spring of 2020. We had our rebuild scheduled during the initial 
two-week shutdown. We were ready, but the world as we knew it disappeared. The students and I were so 
excited for this project. I worried we’d miss the planting window and return to school too late. Little did I know, 
we wouldn’t return to school that year, or that even the next year would not be full-time in person. After the 
tumultuous 2020-2021 school year, when HFHK contacted me to say they wanted to do a garden rebuild over the 
summer, I knew it was finally time. Amazing volunteers from the community and HFHK, along with our district 
facilities staff, made it happen – on the hottest day of the summer! The garden was rebuilt and I couldn’t wait to 
tell my students. 
When the children returned to school full-time this fall, I told them the news. Since I work with grades kindergarten 
through fifth grade, many of them were a part of the initial planning and were overjoyed to hear it would be a 
reality for us this year. Pandemic schooling is missing so much. There are no field trips. There are no presentations 
or assemblies. This garden was all of that for us. It was the “special” part of our days or weeks. My students are all 
language learners and the best way to learn language is to use it in authentic situations. The students were able 
to take the language they learned in science and reading in their classrooms and make meaningful connections in 
our garden. We used language to plan, to understand, to write, to research about our garden. They felt so proud as 
they watched the plants grow. I saw children who often seemed timid in the traditional school environment grow 
confident in the garden, because of their experience with their families; they were leaders in the garden.  
I saw children who sometimes struggled to express themselves persevere in their attempts to tell us about their 
gardens in their home countries. After over a year of separation, the garden gave us a way to come together. 
When we harvested, the children beamed at the full bags of greens. The next day they cheered for salads.  
They tried foods they might never have tried before. They learned. They grew as much as the plants grew.  
We didn’t just bring the garden back to life; we brought our classroom connections back to life with teamwork, 
cooperation, pride, some dirty knees – and a big salad bar! And, we can’t wait to do it again!HFHK’S “Education Cultivation” Testimonials - The McVey Story 
On August 12, 2021, FMC volunteers joined HFHK to rebuild their garden. Below is their story, 
written by K-5 ESL teacher, Maggie Kite, with testimonials from her students. 
“Agriculture is a vital industry in Delaware and we 
appreciate the opportunity to partner with FMC 
employees to increase children’s understanding 
of the intersection of science and agriculture. 
We value FMC’s commitment to increasing 
sustainable food production and we are excited 
to extend this healthy outdoor experience to even 
more Delaware elementary students.” 
Thianda Manzara
PhD, Founder, Former President & CEO  
Healthy Foods for Healthy Kids
STUDENT TESTIMONIALS
“Growing our garden was 
exciting. We watched the 
plants grow and we made sure 
they had water. I felt proud of 
myself being a gardener.”
Alondra, 3rd grader“Growing the garden took a long 
time and I watched our seeds 
grow until we ate them! I was 
so happy that we grew a big 
garden and got to make salads.”
Tariq, 3rd grader“I was really happy and I paid 
attention to what I needed to 
do to harvest the vegetables.  
I really enjoyed eating what  
we grew.”
Ismael, 3rd grader
33
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT34
Ensuring the Health & 
Safety of Our People
2021 was another record safety year at FMC, 
moving us one step closer to achieving our goal of 
zero injuries . Forty-seven of our sites received EHS 
Excellence Awards for going a full year without a 
recordable injury. Today, we are proudly among the 
safest companies in the chemical industry.
We believe the key to creating a safety culture at work 
is to apply the same focus, intention and dedication 
to safety in every aspect of our lives. It’s a holistic 
approach set forth in our TH!NK.SAFE.  Manifesto, 
the foundation of our award-winning safety program. 
Every FMC office, laboratory and production site 
prominently displays the manifesto, which states,  
“We believe nothing is more important than the 
safety of people. And first and foremost, we are a 
company of people.”  In 2022, FMC is celebrating 
the 10th anniversary of TH!NK.SAFE. In the 10 years 
since we launched the program, our injury rate has 
dropped from 49 recordable injuries in 2011 to a 
total of 6 in 2021.
Recent progress can be attributed in part to a 
more deliberate focus on non-manufacturing team 
members. About two-thirds of FMC team members work outside of a manufacturing environment. Over 
the last few years, we have developed TH!NK.SAFE. 
programming that anyone can understand and apply, 
no matter where they work. For example, the “Line 
of Fire League”  campaign featured superheroes 
in comic-book-style videos to explain “caught-in or 
between, released energy and struck-by” incidents 
and how to avoid them. Our “Walk Strong”  campaign 
featured an animated character named “Shoe” who 
taught employees the importance of walking safely to 
avoid slips, trips and falls.OUR COMMITMENT  
TO SAFETY34
MANIFES TO
WE BELIEVE NOTHING IS MORE IMPORTANT 
AND FIRST AND FOREMOST, WE ARE A COMPANY OF PEOPLE. THAN THE SAFETY OF PEOPLE.
AT WORK
by taking personal ownership of the behaviors, 
conditions and systems that create a culture of 
safety.  And by inspiring others to do the same 
– regardless of position, function and tenure. AT HOME
by involving our families, friends and 
neighbors in a continuous circle of 
support to establish and maintain safe 
places and practices where we live. ON THE ROAD
by controlling the distractions, 
technologies and time-pressured 
trade-offs to keep us alert, attentive and 
safe in all modes of travel at all times.  WE BELIEVE TO BE WORLD CLASS,
WE WILL BE SAFE:IT’S NOT A BOX TO BE CHECKED, BUT 
A VALUE THAT WE OWN AND LIVE 
EVERY DAY. IT IS THE RIGHT WAY, THE 
ONLY WAY TO LIVE AND TO WORK.   WE MUST BE SAFE, FIRST.
WE DON’T BELIEVE THOSE WHO TELL US IT DOESN’T MATTER. IT DOES.
WE DON’T BELIEVE THOSE WHO TELL US IT CANNOT BE DONE.   IT CAN.WE BELIEVE SAFETY IS A 
UNIVERSAL HUMAN RIGHT. WE EACH HAVE A FUNDAMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR FELLOW 
EMPLOYEES, FRIENDS, FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES TO BE SAFE. 
NOT JUST AT WORK, BUT AT HOME AND ON THE ROAD.  
WE BELIEVE THAT WE ALL NEED EACH OTHER TO BE TRULY SAFE. EACH OF OUR SAFE 
FUTURES IS CONNECTED AND CO-DEPENDENT. NO ONE IS SAFE UNTIL EVERYONE IS SAFE.BUT IT ONLY TAKES ONE BAD ONE TO BE UNSAFE. A SINGLE UN-SAFE MOMENT
CAN TRIGGER A LIFETIME OF NEEDLESS HURT, SORROW, STRESS AND LOSS. WE ALL MAKE THOUSANDS OF CHOICES A DAY. WE BELIEVE THERE ARE ENOUGH DANGERS IN THIS WORLD WITHOUT US CREATING NEW ONES. TH!NK. SAFE.TH!NK.SAFE.
Our company’s safety performance in 
2021 was even more remarkable in light of 
the continued disruption of the COVID-19 
pandemic. COVID-19 management teams at 
our global headquarters in Philadelphia and in 
each of our regions continued to ensure every 
FMC site operated with appropriate wellness 
and safety measures that augmented existing 
Environment, Health and Safety protocols. In 
early 2021, we launched a global campaign to 
raise awareness of the benefits of COVID-19 
vaccines and encouraged all employees to 
get vaccinated following advice from their 
healthcare provider. Various programs, 
including incentives, contributed to our strong 
employee vaccination rates. As a result, we 
experienced zero  community transmissions 
at our facilities while manufacturing sites 
continued to operate at the full production plan.FOR GENERATIONS TO COME35
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Sydney, Australia
Graz, Austria
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Campinas, Brazil
Sofia, Bulgaria
Santiago, Chile
Beijing, ChinaHong Kong, China
Bogotá, Colombia
San Jose, Costa Rica
Prague, Czech Rep
Cairo, Egypt
Lyon, France
Frankfurt, Germany
Athens, GreeceBudapest, Hungary
Bangalore, India
Gurgaon, India
Mumbai, India
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cork, Ireland
Bergamo, Italy
Tokyo, JapanKuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Guadalajara, Mexico
Auckland, New Zealand
Lahore Office, Pakistan
Manila, Philippines 
Warsaw, Poland
Bucharest, Romania
Singapore MBFC, SingaporeBratislava, Slovakia
Seoul, South Korea
Barcelona, Spain
Madrid, Spain
Geneva, Switzerland
Taichung, Taiwan ROC
Bangkok, Thailand
Istanbul, TurkeyHarrogate, UK
Kiev, Ukraine
Philadelphia, U.S.
Washington DC, U.S.
Ho Chi Minh, VietnamWyong, Australia
Uberaba, Brazil
Calgary, Canada
Jinshan, ChinaSuzhou, China
Rønland, Denmark 
Uffholtz, France
Stade, GermanyPanoli, India
Savli, India
Pasuruan, Indonesia
Ungaran, IndonesiaSan Colombano, Italy
Lahore, Pakistan
Manati, Puerto Rico
Tuas South, SingaporeFlintshire, UK
Middleport, U.S.
Mobile, U.S.Wyoming, U.S.
Song Than, Vietnam
Paulínia, Brazil
Breslau, Canada
Hanley, CanadaWetaskiwin, Canada
Shanghai AIC, China
Copenhagen (EIC), DenmarkNambsheim, France
Hyderabad, India
Savli-3 DR&D, IndiaKarawang, Indonesia
Calauan, Philippines 
Subhanburi, ThailandMadera, U.S.
Rochelle, U.S.  Sparks, U.S.
Newark (Stine), U.S.2021 F!NISH STRONG CAMPAIGN
During fourth quarter 2021, FMC ran the F!nish Strong campaign , which challenged team members to sharpen their focus and finish 
2021 with zero additional recordable injuries. Each plant, office and laboratory that accomplished the goal received $1,500 USD to 
donate to a local charity and be entered into a drawing to win an additional $5,000 USD to donate to charity.
We are also pleased to recognize 82 sites that achieved zero additional FMC recordable injuries to close out the fourth quarter.
PLANTS
OFFICES
LABORATORIES35
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT36
How long have you been with FMC?
I joined FMC in January 2018 as the Rønland  
Site Manager.
Why is safety important to you?
The commitments we make in our safety manifesto are 
not just words. Nothing is more important than people. 
It’s my job to ensure the safety of the site and a big 
motivator for me as a person. Fundamentally, I believe 
safety is where it all starts. If we are not safe, we won’t 
make quality products and we won’t be competitive. 
What are some of the ways you’ve worked 
to build a safety culture at Rønland?
Leaders need to lead – to be role models, to be 
involved and to act on every potential risk. The main 
tool we use to help us do this is MBWA (Management 
by Walking Around). It’s about getting out in the site, 
looking for specific issues and resolving them before 
they become a safety hazard. It’s important to talk  
to your colleagues about safety and help people to  
be safe. 
Leaders must “walk the talk,” be present and visible, 
to foster a safety culture throughout the whole site.  
When you reflect on the past year, what  
do you believe was really successful? 
In 2021, Rønland set a new record with 402 
days without a recordable injury. This was a big 
achievement that we were all very proud of. But it 
was also a sad day as a colleague was injured. It was 
a reminder to all of us that we have to be safe one 
task at a time, one day at a time, every day. What has been most challenging?
One of our biggest challenges is with contractor 
safety, where we see too many incidents. An injury is 
an injury no matter who is hurt. We are stepping up 
our efforts on contractor safety using the same tools 
and safety culture we have built within FMC.
FMC is always striving for zero injuries. 
What are you focused on for the future?
We need to continue the work we’ve started especially 
on process safety. It’s important that we continue to 
improve our safety standards and regulations as these 
define HOW  to be safe. But BEING  safe is in the end a 
personal decision. Each of us must make the decision 
to work safely and change our behavior to ensure our 
own safety and the safety of others. That is what will 
take us to ZERO and beyond.
How do you think about safety  
“at work, at home and on the road”?
Safety is a core value. We don’t leave our values at 
work at the end of the day. Values go beyond our 
professional lives - they define us as people. On a 
personal level, FMC’s Core Values Safety, Respect for 
People and Integrity define the person I strive to be.Q
Q
QQ
QQ
QInterview with Jakob Kyllesbech,  
Rønland Site Manager36
LEADING A  
SAFETY CULTUREFOR GENERATIONS TO COME37
SAFETY IN THE FIELD
South Africa Sponsors Construction of Cages  
for Empty Agrochemical Containers Destined  
for Recycling
Safe disposal of product containers and packaging 
is critical to protecting the health and safety of 
farmers, their communities and the environment. 
Our product stewardship teams around the world 
conduct hundreds of hours of training and provide 
informational materials to millions of farmers every 
year on responsible use of crop protection products, 
including container management. 
Last year, the team in South Africa partnered with key 
distributors throughout the country to construct cages 
for storing empty agrochemical containers until they 
are ready to be recycled. A large percentage of these 
containers are typically thrown away, burned, buried 
or sold for reuse in illegal counterfeiting, which can 
have lasting, damaging effects on the environment and 
pose a safety risk to farmers and their communities. 
The storage cages make it easier and more efficient 
for farmers to recycle empty product containers, 
encouraging safer, more sustainable practices. 
The first cage was constructed in Polokwane and has 
been in use since June 2021. Two additional cages, 
one in Lxopo and one in Underberg, were completed 
in December 2021. To date, the response from 
farmers has been very positive.
Helping Farmers Avoid Risks  
of Counterfeit Products
Illegal pesticides, specifically counterfeit products, are 
a growing problem in farming communities around the 
world, and as trade in counterfeit pesticides increases, 
so do the risks to the environment and human health. 
Counterfeit pesticides are unregulated and 
manufactured without appropriate consideration of 
environmental laws, regulations and health and safety 
protocols. They may contain a banned active ingredient, 
a lower dose of the active or even no active at all. As 
a result, counterfeit pesticides may not be as efficient 
in protecting crops from pests, resulting in higher 
application rates and dosing. This presents serious risks 
to health and safety of farmers and consumers, as well 
as to water, soil and air quality on and around the farm. 
In some cases, it can cause catastrophic crop failure, 
which can be devastating to farmers’ incomes.THE TEAMS ARE PLANNING 
ADDITIONAL CAGES TO 
BE BUILT  IN LETSITELE, 
GREYTOWN AND DUNDEE.FMC has a network of labs throughout the world 
that can quickly authenticate suspicious products 
– and now we are bringing authentication 
capabilities to the field.  To help farmers avoid the 
risks of counterfeit pesticides, we have developed a 
unique technology that allows them to use an app on 
their mobile device to authenticate an FMC product. 
When a farmer scans a barcode on the package, they 
will receive information that tells them whether the 
product is authentic. In some regions and countries 
(e.g., Mexico), each barcode will be associated with 
a unique ID that provides additional information 
including when and where the product was produced. 
In the future, we expect to integrate the app with 
FMC’s Arc™ farm intelligence platform, which 
would give farmers access to the complete product 
application instructions and safety information on 
their device. 
We launched the app in India in 2021 and plan to 
introduce it in Mexico, Bolivia, Indonesia and the EU  
in 2022.“The cage has been really well-received.  
We are 80 percent full with empties coming 
in slowly but surely now as the season 
comes to an end.”  
Mike Streatfield,  Farmers Agricare Underberg
“We’ve had a very good response from the 
farmers – it’s very convenient and they’re 
happy they can get a disposal certificate.”  
Steve Shaw,  Farmers Agricare Ixopo“The cage is a massive win. It’s fantastic for 
the environment and we’ve received very 
positive feedback from a lot of farmers who 
are grateful we have put it up. It’s been 
particularly useful for export farmers and 
Global Gap certification.”  
Bruce Humphries,   
Farmers Agricare Ixopo37
Container cage
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT38
Independent Assurance Statement to FMC Corporation
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by FMC Corporation (“FMC”) 
to provide assurance in relation to the information set out below and presented in the FMC’s 2021 
Sustainability Report (“the Report”). Our Conclusions
Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2021 
data for the specified indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with 
the reporting criteria. 
Our Assurance Activities
A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a range of assurance 
procedures which varied across the disclosures covered by our assurance engagement, as follows: 
 •Interviews with relevant corporate staff to understand and evaluate the data management 
systems and processes (including systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and 
reporting the data for the specified indicators;
 •A review of the internal environmental, safety, and production indicator definitions and  
conversion factors;
 •Virtual site visits to FMC operations in Jinshan, China; Rønland, DK; and Wyoming, USA to review 
local reporting processes and consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying source 
data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting 
methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes;
 •An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of 
the corporate data consolidation;
 •Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review procedures 
and the completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the specified indicators 
from the site data; and
 •A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to 
ensure consistency with our findings.
The Limitations of our Engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods 
for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our 
assurance conclusions in this context. 
Due to COVID travel restrictions, we planned our assurance engagement to include virtual site visits. While 
we believe this approach does not affect our limited assurance conclusion(s) above, we draw attention 
to the possibility that if we had undertaken in person visits we may have identified errors and omissions 
in the assured information that we did not discover through the alternative assurance program. 
Our Independence 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related 
to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented 
to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and 
the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services 
to FMC in any respect. ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Scope of our  
assurance  
engagementWhether the 2021 data for the following environmental (absolute and intensity) are fairly 
presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria: 
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
GHG emissions
• Scope 1 GHG Emissions (from direct energy use and fleet) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based methodology) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Scope 2 GHG Emissions (market-based methodology) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Total GHG Emissions (location-based methodology) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• Total GHG Emissions (market-based methodology) [Kilotonnes CO2e]
• GHG Intensity [Tonnes CO2e/Tonne of Production]
• Scope 3 total (including categories: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12) [tonnes CO2e]
Energy
• Total Energy Use [Terajoules]
• Energy Intensity [GJ/Tonne of Production]
• Total Renewable Energy [Terajoules]
Water
• Total Water Use [Million Cubic Meters]
• Total High Risk Water Use [Million Cubic Meters]
• High Risk Water Intensity [Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production]
Production
• Total Production [Kilotonne of Production]
Waste
• Total Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Waste Disposed Intensity [Kg/Tonne of Production]
• Total Hazardous Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Non-Hazardous Waste Generated [Kilotonnes]
• Total Hazardous Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Total Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes]
• Total Waste for Beneficial Use [Kilotonnes]
• Total Waste for Beneficial Use Intensity [Kg/Tonne of Production]
Safety indicators 
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Reporting 
criteriaWBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, updated 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  
(excluding refrigerants and process emissions); FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions 
Assurance 
standardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). 
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective 
responsibilitiesFMC is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the 
information within it. 
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance 
activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Beth Wyke , Head of Corporate Assurance Services, Malvern, PA
23 May 2022  
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.
www.ermcvs.com ; Email: post@ermcvs.com
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME39
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pierre R. Brondeau  
Chairman of the Board and Retired Chief Executive Officer, 
FMC Corporation
Mark Douglas  
President and Chief Executive Officer,  FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro  
Former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and 
President, Americas Region,  Cabot Corporation
Carol Anthony “John” Davidson  
Former Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief  
Accounting Officer,  Tyco InternationalKathy L. Fortmann  
Chief Executive Officer,  Amsterdam Commodities N.V.
C. Scott Greer  
Retired Principal,  Greer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson  
Former Chief Executive Officer, President and  
Executive Chair, Elevance Renewable Sciences Inc.
Dirk A. Kempthorne  
Retired President and Chief Executive Officer,  
American Council of Life InsurersPaul J. Norris  
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,   
W. R. Grace & Co.
Margareth Øvrum  
Retired Executive Vice President, Equinor ASA, Development 
and Production Brazil; Retired President,  Equinor Brazil
Robert C. Pallash  
Retired President, Global Customer Group and Senior Vice 
President,  Visteon Corporation
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr.  
Chairman, CEO, President and Principal,  LeHavre Athletic Club
FMC OFFICERS
Brian P. Angeli  
Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Precision Agriculture
Brian J. Blair  
Vice President, Treasurer
William F. Chester  
Vice President, Global Tax
Barry J. Crawford  
Vice President, Operations
Kenneth A. Gedaka  
Vice President, Communications and Public AffairsThaisa Hugenneyer  
Vice President, Procurement, Logistics and Global Facilities
David A. Kotch  
Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Susanne M. Lingard  
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
Kyle Matthews  
Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Nicholas L. Pfeiffer  
Vice President, Corporate Controller and  
Chief Accounting Officer Sebastià Pons  
Vice President and President, FMC Europe, Middle East, Africa
Bethwyn Todd  
Vice President and President, FMC Asia Pacific
Karen M. Totland, Ph.D.  
Vice President, Chief Sustainability Officer
Shawn R. Whitman  
Vice President, Government AffairsEXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
Mark Douglas  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Diane Allemang  
Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing OfficerRonaldo Pereira  
Executive Vice President and President, FMC Americas
Michael F. Reilly  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel,  
Secretary and Chief Compliance OfficerAndrew D. Sandifer  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Kathleen A. Shelton, Ph.D.  
Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer39
FOR GENERATIONS TO COMEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT40
TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC’S INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT UNGC PRINCIPLES
Human 
RightsPrinciple 1:  Businesses should support and respect the 
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Human Rights in the Supply  
Chain training• Supplier code of conduct 
• Supplier screening process
Principle 2:  Make sure that businesses are not complicit in 
human rights abuses.• Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct
• Sexual harassment prevention campaign
LaborPrinciple 3:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of 
association and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining.• Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Principle 4:  The elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 5:  The effective abolition of child labor.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of 
employment and occupation.• Human rights policy
• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
• FMC Employee Resource Groups• New representation goals
• Diversity Task forces • Regional inclusion councils 
• D&I training for leadership
EnvironmentPrinciple 7:  Businesses should support a precautionary 
approach to environmental challenges.• CDP climate change module submission
• Climate change statement • Environmental risk assessments for 
agricultural products 
• Sustainability assessments for products  
in R&D pipeline• Adherence to stringent  
regulatory frameworks
Principle 8:  Undertake initiatives to promote greater 
environmental responsibility.• CDP climate change module submission
• Responsible Care®• 2035 net-zero, Water and Waste Goals • Product Stewardship programs
Principle 9:  Encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies.• Precision agriculture
• ArcTM farm intelligence• Evalio® AgroSystems
• Plant health products• Seed treatment products
• Sustainability assessments for products  
in R&D pipeline
Anti 
CorruptionPrinciple 10:  Businesses should work against corruption in 
all its forms, including extortion and bribery.• Ethics on-line training course
• The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) 
compliance standard process • Training of FMC organization and FMC’s  
key third parties
• Anti-trust compliance campaign for  
FMC employees• FCPA audits 
• Code of Ethics and Business ConductFMC became a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This is our seventh Communication on Progress indicating our activities and management systems in support 
of the UNGC principles. More information on our initiatives to support the UNGC principles can be found on FMC.com/sustainability .
WE SUPPOR TUNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
Communication on ProgressFOR GENERATIONS TO COME41
Stockholder Data
FMC, the FMC logo, Furagro, Rynaxypyr, Prevathon, Zironar, Lucento, Arc, 3RIVE 3D and  
Evalio are trademarks of FMC Corporation and/or an affiliate. ©2022 FMC Corporation.  
All rights reserved.
Other than FMC's, company names and logos mentioned herein are the property of their 
respective owners. 
Furagro™ Legend organic fertilizer, Prevathon® insect control, Zironar™ biofungicide/
bionematicide and Lucento™ fungicide may not be registered for sale or use in all states  
and jurisdictions.FMC Corporation is an active participant in the American Chemistry Council (ACC) and 
we support the principles of the ACC’s Responsible Care® Program by working with 
our employees, suppliers, customers, contractors and commercial partners to promote 
responsible management of our products and processes through their entire life cycle, 
and for their intended use, worldwide. FMC undergoes third-party review and certification 
of our conformance with the Responsible Care Management System requirements at 
our headquarters offices and all of our sites located in the United States. For additional 
information on our Responsible Care Program, please go to FMC.com . 
Responsible Care® is a service mark of American Chemistry Council, Inc.42 42
Corporate governance establishes the systems, 
rules and practices by which FMC operates. 
Governance is critical at FMC; it ensures we 
are operating with integrity and accountability. 
Details on our corporate governance structure 
is disclosed in our Annual Report , Proxy  
Statement  and on our website . 
As part of this governance, FMC has a 
well established system as it pertains to 
sustainability, as described below. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
FMC’s Board of Directors Sustainability 
Committee is tasked with overseeing and 
evaluating the effectiveness of FMC’s 
sustainability strategy to ensure it continues 
to create value and deliver real impact for the 
company and society. The Committee reviews 
and provides guidance to management on 
FMC’s sustainability initiatives including those 
relating to its environmental and social impact, 
climate change, community engagement and 
diversity equity and inclusion. The Committee 
meets four times a year.
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL
The Executive Sustainability Council meets four times 
a year to review progress on goals, new initiatives, 
commitments and challenges. It recommends actions, 
as necessary, to ensure continuous performance 
improvement and alignment with constituent 
expectations (both internal and external).
OFFICE OF THE CSO
The office of the CSO brings greater focus and 
direction to our sustainability efforts around the 
world, driving meaningful change across the 
company and supporting global initiatives to address 
some of the world’s most urgent challenges.  
There are five key functions that report to the 
Chief Sustainability Officer:EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY  
ADVISORY COUNCIL
FMC’s External Sustainability Advisory Council, 
initiated in November 2017, provides perspectives 
and objectivity to our sustainability strategy. 
Members of the Council are leaders in agriculture, 
energy, water, academia and environmental issues. 
Council meetings are held twice a year and have 
focused on topics such as sustainably-advantaged 
innovation, sustainability goals, materiality, diversity 
and inclusion, issues management strategy, product 
stewardship and stakeholder engagement.
Corporate 
Sustainability
1Diversity, 
Equity and 
Inclusion
2Product 
Stewardship
3Government  
and Industry 
Affairs
4Sustainability 
Communications, 
Engagement and 
Philanthropy
542
ESG APPENDIX A
GOVERNANCE
ESG APPENDIX A  |  GOVERNANCEESG APPENDIX B
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY KEY TOPICS COVERED
EmployeesTown Hall meetings
Reports, email blasts and videos
Surveys
Focus groups
Training
Social mediaQuarterly
Monthly
Annually
As needed
Annually
WeeklySafety
Ethics and compliance
Sustainable procurement
Sustainability assessment tool
DEI
Sustainability branding
Prospective EmployeesSustainability Report
Annual ReportAnnually
AnnuallySustainability
DEI
CustomersMeetings
Innovation collaboration
Industry partnershipsQuarterly
Quarterly
QuarterlyInnovation
Pollinator safety
Product stewardship
SuppliersSupplier audits
Supplier surveys
Code of ConductBi-annually
Quarterly
MonthlyFair wages and labor
Sustainability goals
Responsible care
InvestorsRatings/rankings and indices
Conference calls
SurveysAnnually
As needed
AnnuallyFMC’s performance and our strategic growth plan
DEI, climate action and food security
The sustainability of new products
Local CommunitiesDonations to local organizations
Employee volunteers
Community Advisory PanelsQuarterly
Monthly
QuarterlyHunger
Science education
Disaster relief
Regulators and Public Policy MakersMeetings
Risk assessments and studiesMonthly
RegularlyEndangered species
Product stewardship, science-based evaluations, safety and environmental standards
Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)In-person meetings/conference calls
Survey responses
Policies and best practicesAs needed
Bi-annually
As neededBiodiversity
Secondary standards
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Industry AssociationsLeading/participating on committees and working groups
AdvocacyBi-monthly
As neededResponsible care
Product stewardship and sustainability
External Sustainability Advisory CouncilIn-person meetings
Conference callsBi-annually
As neededSustainability strategy and reporting
Innovation43FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTStakeholder engagement is essential to identify important initiatives, issues and trends for FMC. We regularly meet with several stakeholder groups. Taking their feedback 
into account is vital as FMC continues to evolve and grow. The table below indicates our main stakeholder groups, how we engage them and examples of key topics. More 
information about our stakeholder engagement can be found on our website .
ESG APPENDIX B  |  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT44
At FMC, we are committed to conducting our business 
with honesty and integrity and complying with all 
applicable laws. FMC’s Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct (the “Code”) exemplifies our dedication to these high business standards. The Code summarizes 
the legal and ethical principles that we follow in 
our daily work and applies these principles to our policies and practices. For many years, the Code 
has served as a constant guidepost for the way 
FMC does business. FMC’s commitment ethics and compliance starts at the top of the corporation. 
FMC’s Corporate Responsibility Committee, which 
consists of executive management and reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, assesses 
FMC’s overall compliance with applicable law and 
the Code, oversees the compliance training program and considers the appropriate response to significant 
compliance matters and legal developments.The assessment was conducted via online surveys 
with internal and external stakeholders. Internal 
stakeholders included employees from all major 
functions, including operations, sales, regulatory affairs and research and development, among others. External 
stakeholders included customers, investors, consultants 
and representatives from academia, government, trade associations and non-governmental organizations. 
We analyzed 22 potential material topics based on 
GRI, SASB , United Nations Global Compact and other 
expert recommendations. Respondents were asked to 
rate topics on a scale of 1-5 based on two dimensions: 
•The importance to the stakeholder whenassessing FMC (Y-axis)
•FMC’s impact on societies, economies and/orecosystems (X-axis), as per GRI recommendationsBased on the results of the assessment, as well as 
additional analyses conducted across participant responses, we have identified six core material 
issues that will help inform the development of FMC’s 
sustainability strategy and reporting going forward. Three of the six – innovation, stewardship and safety 
– are foundational to FMC’s business and work with
growers across the globe. The remaining three –climate, biodiversity and food security – are areas
where we see opportunities to take bigger, bolder steps
to affect positive change related to some of the world’smost urgent challenges. More detailed information on
this strategy will be included in future reports. WE ARE COMMITTED TO 
CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS WITH HONESTY AND INTEGRITY.
Importance to stakeholders when assessing FMC
FMC’s impact on society, economies and ecosystemsFMC Materiality Matrix  
Topic Importance vs. Impact
3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.503.503.754.004.254.50
HIGHLY MATERIAL
SIGNIFICANTLY MATERIAL
MODERATELY MATERIAL
FMC’s Interactions with Stakeholders
FMC’s Interactions with Global Ecosystems
Integration of Sustainability into FMC Business Strategy
Diversity, equity  
& inclusionEmployee engagement
Public policy & advocacy Global food securityEmergency  
management
Waste & effluent management 
Biodiversity conservation Climate change mitigation
Resilience planning Product safety  
& stewardship
Stakeholder  
engagement Human 
rights 
Process safety Sustainable innovationEmployee safety  
& well-being
Air quality
Smallholder farmers Supplier sustainabilityEnvironmental remediation 
Community relations 
Community relations Water stewardshipMATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT
The results of our materiality assessment, which 
identifies sustainability topics of most importance for 
our business based on inclusive stakeholder feedback, 
are indicated in the matrix to the right. This assessment was completed in accordance with GRI standards.
ESG APPENDIX B  |   MATERIALITY ASSESSMENTFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT45
GHG and Energy Summary
FMC REGIONS 2021 TOTAL ENERGY (GJ) TOTAL RENEWABLE ENERGY (GJ) TOTAL GHG EMISSION (tCO2e)
Europe, Middle East & Africa 595,472 21,902 28,186
North America 1,102,102 0 72,538
Asia Pacific 414,660 10,738 47,452
Latin America 15,932 0 546
Total 2,162,987 32,640 165,880 (Location-based)
Other Owned Sites  
(Non-Manufacturing/Stine)34,821 0 1,293
Fleet n/a n/a 14,132
Fugitives n/a n/a 1,734ESG APPENDIX C
ESG APPENDIX C  |  ENVIRONMENTALGHG by Scope
tCO2e
Scope 1
Manufacturing Sites & Stine 86,394
Other Owned Sites 345
Fleet 14,132
Fugitives 1,734
Total 102,605
Scope 2 (Market Based)
Manufacturing Sites & Stine * 61,502
Other Owned Sites 948
Total 62,450
Scope 3 **
Category 1 (Purchased Goods & Services) 2,189,566
Category 2 (Capital Goods) 28,433
Category 3 (Fuel- and Energy-related Activities) 42,754
Category 4  (Upstream Transportation & Distribution) 130,381
Category 5 (Waste Generated in Operations) 63,761
Category 6 (Business Travel) 1,506
Category 7 (Employee Commuting) 5,004
Category 8 (Upstream Leased Assets) 14,836
Category 9 (Downstream Transportation & Distribution) 9,605
Category 12 (End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products) 76,039
Total 2,561,885The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the 2021 environmental data as well as data trends over the 
past three years. In previous reporting year, FMC’s boundary was our manufacturing sites and our Stine R&D facility. 
In 2021, FMC expanded our environmental boundary to include: fleet, fugitive emissions, and all FMC owned sites. All 
data presented in previous years do not represent our expanded environmental boundary. As such, any comparison’s 
do not accurately represent performance year over year. 
Note: FMC limited assurance for Scopes 1 and 2 include all manufacturing sites, Stine and Fleet. Scope 3 assurance is for Total Scope 3 (including Categories 1, 
2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12).
Fleet emissions were reported directly by the fleet management companies contracted by FMC. Where emissions were not reported by the fleet management 
company, emissions were calculated based on the distance driven. Where actual distance driven was not available, distance was estimated using the annual 
contractual mileage for each vehicle or using other best available information such as monthly fuel allowance provided by FMC regional managers.
* Includes RECs.
** Category 2 capital goods is based on 2021 GAAP expenditures.
Categories 10 and 11 are considered not relevant to FMC. This is aligned with the WBCSD Chemical Sector Standard “Guidance for Accounting and Reporting 
Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain”.
Category 13 Downstream Leased Asset are considered not relevant as all emissions associated with the operations of assets leased to other entities by FMC 
are currently accounted for within Scope 1 and 2 inventory.
Category 14 Franchises are considered not relevant as FMC’s business model does not involve the use of franchises.
Category 15 Investments are considered not relevant as FMC’s total investment portfolio is valued at less than 0.1 percent of FMC’s market capitalization.SUPPORTING DATA | ENVIRONMENTAL FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT46
Water Summary
FMC REGIONSWATER USE   
(M3)HIGH-RISK 
WATER USE  
(M3)
Europe, Middle East & Africa 384,067 0
North America 777,148 0
Asia Pacific 271,974 238,592
Latin America 18,101 0
Total 1,451,290 238,592
Waste Disposal Method
FMC REGIONSTOTAL WASTE 
GENERATED (KG)WASTE FOR BENEFICIAL 
REUSE (KG)TOTAL DISPOSED (KG) LANDFILL (KG)INCINERATION W/O 
ENERGY RECOVERY (KG)OTHER - DISPOSED (KG)
Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous Hazardous Non-Hazardous
Europe, Middle East & Africa 8,806,926 15,454,000 7,670,821 1,664,484 1,136,105 13,789,516 9,446 13,718,825 38,273 4,694 1,088,386 65,997
North America 19,716,574 4,381,937 9,667,846 1,225,497 10,048,729 3,156,439 0 2,340,882 10,042,811 790,179 5,918 25,377
Asia Pacific 23,934,852 1,942,955 3,190,204 1,543,890 20,744,648 399,065 1,451,058 109,583 6,145,814 58,695 13,147,776 230,787
Latin America 382,128 2,247,208 0 1,988,762 382,128 258,446 0 258,446 169,698 0 212,430 0
Total 52,840,480 24,026,100 20,528,870 6,422,633 32,311,611 17,603,466 1,460,504 16,427,736 16,396,596 853,568 14,454,510 322,161Waste SummaryData and Intensity Trends 
2021 Progress
2019 2020 2021
Revenue  ($M) 4,610 4,642 5,045
Scope 1  (tCO2e) 83,040 83,584 102,605
Scope 2, Location Based  (tCO2e) 69,096 68,360 63,275
Scope 2, Market Based  (tCO2e) Not Reported 67,031 62,450
Renewable Energy 0 2% 2%
Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions  (tCO2e) 152,136 150,615 165,055
GHG Intensity  (tCO2e/Revenue USD) 33 29 33
Energy  (GJ) 2,085,944 2,115,249 2,162,987
Energy Intensity  (tCO2e/Revenue USD) 453 456 429
Water Use  (m3) 1,461,984 1,517,145 1,451,290
Water Use Intensity  (m3/Revenue USD) 317 327 288
High-Risk Water Use  (m3) 231.81 219.58 238.59
High-Risk Waster Use Intensity  (m3/Revenue USD) 0.05 0.05 0.05
Waste Disposed  (kg) 47,237,834 50,215,332 49,915,076
Waste Disposed Intensity  (kg/Revenue USD) 10,247 10,817 9,894
Note: Intensity trends are based on absolute values over revenue is USD. Note that in 2021 reporting boundaries changed which is not reflected in 
previous years data.Other Emissions
Air Quality
METRIC TONNES FMC BOUNDARY
NOx 50.23 Global
SOx 34.41 Global
VOCs 27.39 Global
HAPs 23.31 North America Only
Note: Data provided is for manufacturing sites and Stine.
Water use is inclusive of high-risk water use.
High-risk locations are defined by the 2021 WRI Aqueduct Overall 
Water Risk Assessment.
Note: Data provided is for manufacturing sites and Stine.
ESG APPENDIX C  |  ENVIRONMENTALTonnes CO2e
0250005000075000100000125000150000175000200000
165,055
150,615 152,136
2019 2020 2021Total Energy Use, GJ
0500,0001,000,0001,500,0002,000,0002,500,000
2,162,987
2019 2020 20212,115,249 2,085,944
Total Waste Disposed, kg
010,000,00020,000,00030,000,00040,000,00050,000,00060,000,000
49,915,076
2019 2020 202150,215,33247,237,834
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
65%35%
69%31%
67%33%
Waste To Beneﬁcial Reuse Waste Disposed2019 2020 20210.0050.00100.00150.00200.00250.00High Risk Water Use, 
Thousand Cubic Meters
2019 2020 2021238.59
219.58231.81FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT47
Environmental Metrics – Trends
Global Energy Use Global GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions
Global High-Risk Water Use Global Waste Disposed Waste Disposal Rate
0250005000075000100000125000150000175000200000
102,60562,450
83,58467,031
83,04069,096
Scope 2 Emissions (Market-based) Scope 1 Emissions2019 2020 2021Tonnes CO2e
Note: High-risk locations are defined by WRI Aqueduct Overall  
Water Risk Assessment. 2019 and 2020 metrics reflect the 2021 
high-risk regions. Note: Data represented includes FMC’s entire boundary. 2021 Data assurance was performed by ERM CVS on all manufacturing sites and Stine as well as fleet.
Note: In 2021 FMC updated their reporting boundary as explained  
on page 7. 
ESG APPENDIX C  |  ENVIRONMENTALFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT48
ESG APPENDIX C  |   SAFETY & SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
48
SUPPORTING DATA | SAFETY & SUSTAINABILITY
Safety Data
At FMC, people come first. We strive for an injury-free workplace, where every employee returns home the same way they arrived. We encourage a culture of open 
reporting, so we can learn from our mistakes and work towards continuous improvement in behaviors and processes. To see additional safety data visit our website. 
2018 2019 2020 2021
Fatalaties 0 0 0 0
Lost Time 3 4 2 2
Total Recordables 9 12 7 6
Total Manhours (hr) 16,809,983 17,839,639 18,095,671 18,139,849
TRIR 0.11 0.13 0.08 0.07
2018 2019 2020 2021
Tier 1 0 2 1 12018 2019 2020 2021
Fatalaties 2 1 0 0
Lost Time 4 5 4 4
Total Recordables 8 8 7 6
Total Manhours (hr) 4,739,589 4,293,426 3,318,109 4,134,426
TRIR 0.38 0.37 0.42 0.29FMC Injuries/Illnesses
(Number of Cases)3rd Party Injuries/Illnesses
(Number of Cases)
Process Safety Events
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT4949
0%20%40%60%80%100%
2019 2020 202181% 82% 84%
0.000.030.060.090.120.15
2019 2020 20210.13
0.080.07
0%20%40%60%80%100%
2019 2020 202194%97% 97%Community Engagement Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)R&D Spend on Sustainably 
Advantaged Products Sustainability Data – Trends
ESG APPENDIX C  |   SAFETY & SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT50
50
ESG APPENDIX C  |  WORKFORCEWorkforce DataSUPPORTING DATA | WORKFORCE
Total Workforce
FMC  
REGIONSTOTAL 
EMPLOYEESGENDER (COUNT AND %) AGE GROUP (% ONLY)
Male % Male Female % Female <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60
Europe, Middle East & Africa 1,459 956 66% 503 34% 0.10% 7.50% 28.10% 27.60% 25.60% 11.10%
North America 1,432 917 64% 510 36% 0.10% 9.70% 23.30% 24.20% 26.00% 16.80%
Asia Pacific 2,547 1,888 74% 659 26% 0 11.70% 42.10% 31.40% 13.90% 0.90%
Latin America 792 568 72% 224 28% 0.10% 12.00% 44.70% 30.10% 11.10% 2.00%
Total 6,230 4,329 70% 1,896 30% 0.00% 10.30% 34.80% 28.70% 19.10% 7.10%
New Hire
FMC  
REGIONSGENDER 
(COUNT)AGE GROUP (MALE) AGE GROUP  (FEMALE)
Male Female <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60 <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60
EMEA 89 56 5 38 45 22 18 1 0 32 35 25 4 4
North America 82 67 3 43 36 16 11 4 0 49 24 8 11 4
APAC 329 133 0 128 153 44 8 1 0 45 64 20 8 2
LATAM 87 59 1 31 37 20 5 2 4 33 31 8 1 0
Total 587 315 9 240 271 102 42 8 4 159 154 61 24 10Voluntary Turnover
GENDER 
(COUNT)AGE GROUP (MALE) AGE GROUP  (FEMALE)
Male Female <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60 <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60
58 50 1 12 19 12 12 2 0 8 28 8 5 1
70 58 0 12 28 17 10 3 0 12 21 9 16 0
175 47 0 37 86 37 15 0 0 9 22 13 3 0
52 17 0 4 36 11 1 0 0 3 11 3 0 0
355 172 1 65 169 77 38 5 0 32 82 33 24 1Workforce Data for Fulltime Employees/FTE in 2021FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT51
Women in Senior Leadership Women in Management Governance Bodies by Gender
Governance Bodies by Age GroupTOTAL NUMBER  
OF WOMENTOTAL NUMBER IN  
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS  
(JOB GRADE 25 AND ABOVE)
1896 65WOMEN WORKING 
AT FMC (TOTAL #)WOMEN IN  
PROFESSIONAL ROLES*
Count %
1896 1364 72%GENDER
Count %
Male 14 70%
Female 6 30%
AGE GROUP
Count %
Under 30 0 0%
30 - 50 7 35%
Over 50 13 65%
* Definition: Professional roles are defined by certain types of 
responsibilities or requirements, such as independent judgment and 
decision making that impact the business. All FMC employees are 
assigned a job classification which, although a US specific concep t, 
includes an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) categorization 
of the job. Job Classification is used to identify “Professionals” 
as those in the management categories, professional and sales 
workers. We include Executive/Senior Management, First Level 
Managers, Professionals and Sales Workers in FMC’s definition 
of “Professional”. Senior management roles are those that have 
significant responsibility to oversee and direct a functional discipline 
or business area within FMC.
ESG APPENDIX C  |  WORKFORCEFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT52
GRI 102: General Disclosures
Organizational ProfileESG APPENDIX D
REPORTING STANDARDS | 2021  GRI INDEX
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-1 Name of the organizationThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Name of the organization.FMC Corporation
102-2 Activities, brands, products and servicesThe reporting organization shall report the following information: 
a. A description of the organization’s activities.
b. Primary brands, products and services, including an explanation of any products or services that are 
banned in certain markets.p.3
102-3 Location of headquartersThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Location of the organization’s headquarters.Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States
102-4 Location of operationsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Number of countries where the organization operates and the names of countries where it has 
significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report.FMC Website ( https://www.FMC.com/en/company/
our-locations )
102-5 Ownership and legal formThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Nature of ownership and legal form.2021 FMC Form 10-K p.1
102-6 Markets servedThe reporting organization shall report the following information: 
a. Markets served, including:
I. geographic locations where products and services are offered; 
II. sectors served;
III. types of customers and beneficiaries.p.3
102-7 Scale of the organizationThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Scale of the organization, including:
I. total number of employees;
II. total number of operations;
III. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations);
IV. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity;
V. quantity of products or services provided.p.3, p.4
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEX52FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT53
Organizational Profile (cont.)
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-8 Information on employees  
and other workersThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. 
b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. 
c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender.
d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not 
employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who 
are not employees. 
e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b and 102-8-c 
(such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries).
f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made.p.22 ; 2021 FMC Form 10-K p.7;  
Workforce Metrics
102-9 Supply chainThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the 
organization’s activities, primary brands, products and services.2021 Form 10-K p.5-6 , p.9-10 ;  
https://www.FMC.com/en/company/FMC-suppliers
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainThe reporting organization shall report the following information: 
a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including:
I. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings,  
and expansions;
II. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance and alteration 
operations (for private sector organizations);
III. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with 
suppliers, including selection and termination.p.3; 2021 Form 10-K p.2
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach.p.43-44 ; 2021 Form 10-K p.9-13
102-12 External initiativesThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 
initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses.UN Global Compact ( p.40 ); UN Sustainable 
Development Goals ( p.5); Community Engagement 
Activities ( p.30 ) Responsible Care; Multiple ISO 
certifications at manufacturing facilities globally; 
Science Base Target alignment
102-13 Membership of associationsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 
initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which  
it endorses.Association Memberships
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT54
Strategy
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-14 Statement from senior decision-makerThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or 
equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 
for addressing sustainability.p.2
Ethics and Integrity 
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behaviorThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior.https://www.FMC.com/en/company/about-FMC
Governance
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-18 Governance structureThe reporting organization shall report the following information: 
a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 
b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social topics.p.42
Stakeholder Engagement
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-40 List of stakeholder groupsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.p.43
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.2021 Form 10-K p.7
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholdersThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage.p.43-44
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagementThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 
by type and by stakeholder group and an indication of whether any of the engagement was 
undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.p.43
102-44 Key topics and concerns raisedThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: 
I. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; 
II. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.p.44
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT55
Reporting Practice
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statementsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 
documents is not covered by the report.2021 Form 10-K p.1-5
102-46 Defining report content  
and topic BoundariesThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. An explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries.
b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content.p.1, p.2; impact of material topics on the business 
are described on www.FMC.com/sustainability
102-47 List of material topicsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content.p.1, p.2, p.44
102-48 Restatements of InformationThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such 
restatements.n/a
102-49 Changes in reportingThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries.FMC reset its environmental sustainability goals 
in 2021, including updating the baseline year from 
2018 to 2021. As such, FMC’s previous goals on 
energy use, waste disposed, GHG emissions and 
water use have been replaced and are no longer 
reported on. FMC’s updated goals are presented  
in the 2021 Sustainability Report ( p.6-11 ).
102-50 Reporting periodThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Reporting period for the information provided.Calendar year 2021
102-51 Date of most recent reportThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report.Calendar year 2020
102-52 Reporting cycleThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Reporting cycle.Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  
the reportThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.Rachel Greengas, Global Director of Sustainability, 
Strategic Impact, sustainability.info@FMC.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with  
the GRI StandardsThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either:
I. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’;
II. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’.FMC’s 2021 Sustainability Report has been 
prepared “In Accordance” with the GRI Standards 
– Core option.
102-55 GRI content indexThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures 
included in the report.
b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include:
I. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards);
II. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other 
published materials; 
III. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made.p.1
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT56
DISCLOSURE FULL DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
102-56 External assuranceThe reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the report. 
b. If the report has been externally assured:
I. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the 
assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what 
has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of 
assurance obtained and any limitations of the assurance process; 
II. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider;
III. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking 
external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report.p.38Reporting Practice (cont.)
Material Topic GRI 201: Economic Performance
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.3, p.4
103-2 The management approach and its 
components2021 Form 10-K p.87-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2021 Form 10-K p.87-89
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
201-1 Direct economic value generated  
and distributed2021 Form 10-K p.16-37GRI 201: Economic Performance
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT57
Material Topic GRI 302: Energy
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p.7-11 , p.45Energy consumption by fuel 
types and sources (electricity, 
heating, cooling, steam)Information unavailableFMC reports energy consumption by 
region, total energy and renewable 
energy. All energy use data for the 
corporation has been assured and 
reported on an absolute and intensity 
basis. We assure and report energy 
related GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions).
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organizationp.7-11 , p.45  
302-3 Energy intensity p.46
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p.47
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and servicesp.7-11GRI 302: Energy
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT58
Material Topic GRI 303: Water and Effluents
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resourcep.7-11 , p.46
303-2 Management of water discharge-related 
impactsp.7-11 Water discharge by source Information unavailableFMC is actively working on developing 
a management system to track water 
discharge by category at all of FMC’s 
locations.
303-3 Water withdrawal by source p.7-11 , p.46 Breakdown by sources Information unavailableFMC is working on developing a 
management system that will track  
water use (withdrawn) by source at all  
of our locations.
303-4 Water discharge Not applicable Water discharge by source Information unavailableFMC is actively working on developing 
a management system to track water 
discharge by category at all of FMC’s 
locations.
303-5 Water consumption Not applicableWater consumption  
by sourceInformation unavailableFMC is actively working on capturing the 
full water cycle at all of FMC’s locations, 
including water consumption.GRI 303: Water and Effluents
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT59
Material Topic GRI 305: Emissions
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p.45
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p.45
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p.45
305-4 GHG emissions intensity p.46
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p.47
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 
(ODS)Not applicableEmissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)Information unavailableThis information is not reported at  
this time.
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) 
and other significant air emissionsp.46GRI 305: Emissions
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT60
Material Topic GRI 306: Waste and Effluents
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.4, p.7-11 , p.38-39 ; FMC.com/sustainability
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p.46
306-3 Significant spillsFMC has had no significant spills in the  
reporting year
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Entire category omitted. Information unavailableFMC does not currently track transport 
related to disposal of hazardous waste.GRI 306: Waste and Effluents
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT61
Material Topic GRI 401: Employment 
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p.50-51
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employeesFMC.com/careers/benefits
401-3 Parental leave FMC.com/careers/benefitsGRI 401: Employment
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT62
Material Topic GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp4, p.34-37 ; Commitment to Safety ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/commitment-safety )
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp4, p.34-37 ; Commitment to Safety ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/commitment-safety )
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachp4, p.34-37 ; Commitment to Safety ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/commitment-safety )
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management systemp4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment,  
and incident investigationp4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-3 Occupational health services Occupational health services Information unavailable
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and 
communication on occupational health and safetyp4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-5 Worker training on occupational health  
and safetyp4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-6 Promotion of worker health p4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationshipsp4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health 
and safety management systemp4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-9 Work-related injuries p4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety Metrics
403-10 Work-related ill health p4, p.34-37 ; FMC’s EHS Policy ; Safety MetricsGRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT63
Material Topic GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 103: Management Approach
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundaryp.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51 ; D&I Website ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/diversity-inclusion )
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsp.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51 ; D&I Website ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/diversity-inclusion )
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachp.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51 ; D&I Website ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/diversity-inclusion )
DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) OMISSION: PART OMITTED OMISSION: REASON OMISSION: EXPLANATION
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employeesp.4, p.20-33 , p.50-51 ; D&I Website ( https://www.
FMC.com/en/company/diversity-inclusion )
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menRatio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women to 
menInformation unavailableGRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
ESG APPENDIX D  |  2021 GRI INDEXFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT64
Chemical Industry Disclosure Table (2021)
The table below is a summary of FMC’s SASB - Chemical Industry disclosures for the 2020 calendar year.
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE FMC ALIGNMENT
Greenhouse Gas 
EmissionsGross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under 
emissions-limiting regulationsQuantitativeMetric tons (t),  
CO₂-e, Percentage (%)RT-CH-110a.1 p.45
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets and an analysis of  
performance against those targetsDiscussion 
and Analysisn/a RT-CH-110a.2 p.6-11
Air QualityAir emissions of the following pollutants:
Quantitative Metric tons (t) RT-CH-120a.1 p.46(1) NOX (excluding N2O)
(2) SOX
(3) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
(4) Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs)
Energy(1) Total energy consumed
QuantitativeGigajoules (GJ),  
Percentage (%)RT-CH-130a.1 p.45(2) Percentage grid electricity
(3) Percentage renewable
(4) Total self-generated energy
ESG APPENDIX D  |  CDP DISCLOSURES & SASB METRICSREPORTING STANDARDS | SASB METRICSREPORTING STANDARDS | CDP DISCLOSURES
FMC is committed to transparency. We continue to disclose our climate and water related activities to the Climate Disclosure Project (CDP).  
FMC provides copies of our CDP submissions on our website . 
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT65
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE FMC ALIGNMENT
Water Management(1) Total water withdrawn
QuantitativeThousand cubic meters 
(m³), Percentage (%)RT-CH-140a.1 p.46(2) Total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High 
or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water 
quality permits, standards and regulationsQuantitative Number RT-CH-140a.2
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies 
and practices to mitigate those risksDiscussion
and Analysisn/a RT-CH-140a.3 p.6-11
Hazardous Waste 
ManagementAmount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled QuantitativeMetric tons (t),  
Percentage (%)RT-CH-150a.1 p.46
Community RelationsDiscussion of engagement processes to manage risks and 
opportunities associated with community interestsDiscussion
and Analysisn/a RT-CH-210a.1 p.20-37
Workforce Health  
and Safety(1) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Quantitative Rate RT-CH-320a.1 p.2; Safety Metrics
(2) Fatality Rate for (a) direct employees and (b) contract employees
Description of efforts to assess, monitor and reduce exposure of 
employees and contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risksDiscussion
and Analysisn/a RT-CH-320a.2 p.34-37
Product Design for  
Use-phase EfficiencyRevenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency Quantitative Reporting currency RT-CH-410a.1p.49  Percent of spend on the development of 
sustainably advantaged products
Safety and 
Environmental 
Stewardship of 
Chemicals(1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized  
System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 
1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous Substances
QuantitativePercentage (%)  
by revenue,  
Percentage (%)RT-CH-410b.1FMC has a robust SDS authoring process in 
place based upon the product composition, 
hazard profile of formulation components 
and product-level test data. Each product 
is classified for physical, human health, 
and environmental hazards following 
the guidance and criteria of GHS for the 
relevant country/countries of interest. As 
appropriate, the classification of our products 
is mainly based on product-level test data 
when available. Following GHS criteria, the 
classification for some hazard endpoints will 
be impacted by certain substance-level data 
only if present in the product above GHS-
threshold concentrations.
Due to the acquisition of products from 
various companies, the product-level 
and substance-level data used in the 
development of our SDSs is not available in 
a single system. Therefore, this data cannot 
be compiled at this time. However, a new 
authoring system encompassing all of this 
data is currently being implemented.(2) Percentage of such products that have undergone a  
hazard assessment
ESG APPENDIX D  |  SASB METRICSFMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT66
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE FMC ALIGNMENT
Safety and 
Environmental 
Stewardship of 
Chemicals (cont.)Discussion of strategy to (a) manage chemicals of concern and  
(b) develop alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental 
impactDiscussion
and Analysisn/a RT-CH-410b.22021 Form 10-k p.8
FMC is continuing to phase out Highly 
Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs) from our 
product portfolio. We evaluate HHPs 
using the criteria and process defined by 
the United Nations Food and Agriculture 
Organization (FAO) which is the globally 
accepted regulatory classification scheme.
Genetically Modified
OrganismsPercentage of products by revenue that contain genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs)QuantitativePercentage (%)  
by revenueRT-CH-410c.1 Not Relevant
Management of the 
Legal and Regulatory 
EnvironmentDiscussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social 
factors affecting the industryDiscussion
and Analysisn/a RT-CH-530a.1 p.2
Operational Safety,  
Emergency Preparedness  
and ResponseProcess Safety Incidents Count (PSIC), Process Safety Total Incident 
Rate (PSTIR) and Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR)Quantitative Number, Rate RT-CH-540a.1Safety Metrics ( https://www.FMC.com/en/
sustainability/sustainability-data-and-
reporting )
Number of transport incidents Quantitative Number RT-CH-540a.2 n/a
Production Production by reportable segment Quantitative Metric tons (t) RT-CH-000.A 309,930
 
ESG APPENDIX D  |  SASB METRICSRecommendation FMC Description Source
a. Describe the board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.FMC’s Board of Director’s Sustainability Committee is tasked with 
overseeing and evaluating the effectiveness of FMC’s sustainability 
strategy to ensure it continues to create value and deliver real impact 
for the company and society. The Committee reviews and provides 
guidance to management on FMC’s sustainability initiatives including 
those relating to its environmental and social impact, climate change, 
community engagement and diversity and inclusion. The Committee 
meets four times per year.p.42
b. Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.The Executive Sustainability Council meets four times a year 
to review progress on goals, new initiatives, commitments and 
challenges and is actively involved in the review of climate related 
risks and opportunities. It recommends actions, as necessary, to 
ensure continuous performance improvement and alignment with 
constituent expectations (both internal and external).
In addition, the office of the CSO was formed in November of 2020 
to bring greater focus and direction to our sustainability efforts 
around the world, driving meaningful change across the company 
and supporting global initiatives to address some of the world’s 
most urgent challenges. The office of the CSO consists of five key 
functions: Corporate sustainability, DEI, Product Stewardship, 
Government and Industry Affairs and Sustainability Communications, 
Engagement and Philanthropy.p.42
FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT67
FMC TCFD Disclosure Content Page
The Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) developed a framework to help companies more effectively disclose climate-related risks and opportunities. 
FMC is a supporter the recommendations on TCFD. In an effort to address these recommendations, FMC is providing a summary of our actions as they pertain to the four 
categories: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management and Metrics and Targets. 
REPORTING STANDARDS | TCFD DISCLOSURES
ESG APPENDIX D  |  TCFD DISCLOSURESGOVERNANCE
Disclose the organization’s  
governance around climate  
related risks and opportunities.FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT68
ESG APPENDIX D  |  TCFD DISCLOSURESRecommendation FMC Description Source
a. Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, medium 
and long term.Climate change may impact markets in which we sell our products, 
where, for example, a prolonged drought may result in decreased 
demand for our products. The more gradual effects of persistent 
temperature change in geographies with significant agricultural lands 
may result in changes in lands suitable for agriculture or changes 
in the mix of crops suitable for cultivation and the pests that may 
be present in such geographies. For example, prolonged increase in 
average temperature may make northern lands suitable for growing 
crops not grown historically in such climes, leading farmers to shift 
from crops such as wheat to soybean and may result in new or 
different weed, plant disease or insect pressures on such crops – such 
changes would impact the mix of pesticide products farmers would 
purchase, which may be adverse for us, depending on the local market 
and our product mix. Additionally, changes in the governmental 
regulation of greenhouse gases, depending on their nature and scope, 
could subject our manufacturing operations to significant additional 
costs or limits on operations. 
Our markets are affected by climatic conditions, which could adversely 
impact crop pricing and pest infestations. For example, drought may 
reduce the need for fungicides, which could result in fewer sales and 
greater unsold inventories in the market, whereas excessive rain could 
lead to increased plant disease or weed growth requiring growers 
to purchase and use more pesticides. Drought and/or increased 
temperatures may change insect pest pressures, requiring growers to 
use more, less, or different insecticides. Natural disasters can impact 
production at our facilities in various parts of the world. The nature of 
these events makes them difficult to predict.
In our product portfolio, we see market opportunities for our products to 
address climate change and its impacts. For example, FMC’s agricultural 
solutions can help customers increase yield, energy and water 
efficiency and decrease greenhouse gas emissions. Our solutions can 
also help growers adapt to more unpredictable growing conditions and 
the effects these types of threats have on crops. FMC has committed to 
invest 100 percent of our research and development pipeline budget to 
developing sustainable products and solutions for future use.p.6-11 ; 2021 Form 10-k p.8-13
b. Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on  
the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning.
c. Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C  
or lower scenario.To respond to the uncertainty and better understand our risks 
and opportunities as they relate to climate change, we are 
conducting climate related scenario analyses consistent with the 
recommendations provided by the Taskforce for Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”). As part of the TCFD scenario analysis, 
we are currently evaluating the potential risks at operation sites, 
leveraging scenarios published by the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) and the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC). Results of this analysis will help determine where 
strategic capital could be deployed to address risks and opportunities.2021 Form 10-k p.8-13STRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy and financial 
planning where such information  
is material.FMC 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT69
ESG APPENDIX D  |  TCFD DISCLOSURESRecommendation FMC Description Source
a. Describe the organization’s processes 
for identifying and assessing climate-
related risks.The effects of climate change such as rising sea levels, drought, 
flooding, hurricanes, excessive heat and general volatility in seasonal 
temperatures could adversely affect our operations globally. Extreme 
weather events attributable to climate change may result in, among 
other things, physical damage to our property and equipment, and 
interruptions to our supply chain. FMC is using the recommendations 
of TCFD as well as scenario analysis to further evaluate these risks 
at our manufacturing and key supplier sites. To understand the 
most extreme impact, FMC is utilizing RCP8.5 to determine potential 
impacts at our locations. 2021 Form 10-k p.8-13 ; 2021 CDP ( https://
www.FMC.com/sites/default/files/2021-11/
FMC%20CDP%20Climate%202021.pdf )
b. Describe the organization’s processes 
for managing climate-related risks.Climate related risk will be managed as part of our enterprise risk 
management program.2021 Form 10-k p.8-13 ; 2021 CDP ( https://
www.FMC.com/sites/default/files/2021-11/
FMC%20CDP%20Climate%202021.pdf )
c. Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organization’s overall risk 
management.FMC will actively manage climate risks and incorporate them in our 
decision making as indicated in our responses to the CDP Climate 
Change Module. FMC will also use recommendations outlined in the 
TCFD to evaluate potential risks and opportunities and incorporate 
these into our overall strategy and risk management.2021 Form 10-k p.8-13 ; 2021 CDP ( https://
www.FMC.com/sites/default/files/2021-11/
FMC%20CDP%20Climate%202021.pdf )
a. Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.One of the largest potential climate impacts is associated with 
greenhouse gas emissions. In August of 2021 FMC announced our 
Net-Zero 2035 GHG emissions for our Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 
FMC has since submitted our near-term target to SCTi in line with  
1.5 deg C and is developing our decarbonization strategy. We plan  
to look at process efficiencies, renewable energy.
In addition, as it pertains to FMC products, we utilize our award-
winning Sustainability Assessment Tool to determine the sustainability 
of new active ingredients and formulated products in the research 
and development pipeline. This assessment, along with other 
stewardship processes and tools, ensures the introduction and use  
of environmentally sustainable agricultural solutions.p.6-19 ; 2021 CDP ( https://www.FMC.
com/sites/default/files/2021-11/FMC%20
CDP%20Climate%202021.pdf )
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions and the  
related risks.FMC discloses our Scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions in our annual 
sustainability report.p.6-11
c. Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.FMC has an aggressive Net-Zero by 2035 GHG emissions goal. p.6-11RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose how the organization  
identifies, assesses and manages 
climate related risks.
METRICS AND TARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets 
used to assess and manage 
relevant climate related risks 
and opportunities where such 
information is material.COPYRIGHT © 2022, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.FMC Corporation  
FMC Tower at Cira Centre South  
2929 Walnut Street  
Philadelphia, PA 19104  
U.S.
FMC.com
