MADE
A CHOICEWE’VE
2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMARKET SHAPING SHIFT #1:
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS
FMC has made a choice to innovate products that  
have an improved environmental profile, such as 
the Klozur® product line which is able to convert soil 
contaminants into inert products. FMC was instrumental 
in remediating a site in San Jose, California,  
where soccer teams now play. 
There is a growing desire 
for increasingly safe and 
environmentally benign 
materials.A growing population is 
increasing the demand 
for energy, water and 
other basic resources.MARKET SHAPING SHIFT #2:
SCARCE RESOURCES
FMC has made a choice to pursue sustainable, 
environmentally respectful production methods, such as  
employing solar energy at this lithium processing facility 
at Salar del Hombre Muerto in the Argentine Andes. As efforts to cope with 
greenhouse gas and 
other emissions become 
more aggressive, the 
impact on high-intensity 
industries will increase.
FMC has made a choice to pursue environmental solutions  
that reduce reliance on fossil fuels and help improve air quality.  
From technologies that advance the drive for clean, renewable 
energy to products that reduce industrial emissions,  
FMC is doing well by doing good.MARKET SHAPING SHIFT #3:
CLIMATE CHANGE
MARKET SHAPING SHIFT #3:
CLIMATE CHANGE
Increased agricultural 
efficiency will be  
required to produce  
crops, biofuels, biotextiles 
and bioplastics.
FMC has made a choice to innovate solutions  
that result in higher crop yields and more  
sustainable farming  practices across key crops  
such as rice, cotton and sugar cane.  MARKET SHAPING SHIFT #4:
LAND COMPETITIONA growing population 
will require increased food production and more nutritious foods to meet the rising expectations of an expanding middle class.
FMC has made a choice to conduct research in food 
labs around the world, helping customers produce 
higher nutrition products with longer shelf life and 
more appealing characteristics for consumers.Market Shaping Shift #5:
food expe CtationS“Our objec ti ve is to proudly 
and fairly tell the FMC story: 
who we are, what we do, why what we do ma tt ers 
and how it contributes to
an improved quality of life.”
D. Michael Wilson, President, FMC Specialty Chemicals and 
Executi  ve Committ  ee Member Responsible for SustainabilityWE’VE MADE A CHOICETABLE OF CONTENTSSafety Share 
At FMC, we start every mee ti ng 
with a Safety Share – a ti p, an 
idea or a story about safety. 
Here’s one: Don’t multi  task 
if you need to focus on your surroundings – in the car, on the sidewalk, in the kitchen.  
Pay att  enti on to where you 
are and what you’re doing.  
What’s your Safety Share?
A Company Devoted To Improving Lives
Growing Innova ti on
Minding Our ResourcesFostering SafetyNurturing TalentCulti vati ng Community
About This ReportGlobal Repor ti ng Initi ati ve (GRI) Index
FMC Board And Execu ti ve Oﬃ  cers18
14223038485054
?
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTframework that has been broadly 
adopted around the world to assess sustainability performance. 
FMC has elected to begin repor ti ng 
at GRI Applica ti on Level B, which 
requires disclosure of 20 indicators 
across a broad range of categories. The indicators we selected are those judged to be of material importance to FMC. A full listi ng of the indicators can be found 
on page 50.
This report presents an overview of 
our sustainability strategy, as well as our notable accomplishments and challenges. Detailed accounts and key metrics are provided to describe what we have done. It is our goal to give all readers an understanding of our approach to sustainability, as well as our accomplishments and commitments in this criti cally important endeavor.Feeding the world, protec ti ng health, and providing the 
conveniences of life – that is what we do at FMC. We strive to employ the best technology to cul ti vate strong 
customer partnerships and ﬁ nd soluti ons that help 
improve people’s lives.
Since our founder, John Bean, invented the ﬁ rst piston 
sprayer for agriculture in 1883, FMC has con ti nued a 
proud heritage of pioneering solu ti ons for our customers. 
Today, we use advanced technologies in research and 
development, mining, and manufacturing to produce customized products and applica ti ons for the markets 
we serve. Our o ﬀ erings provide important sustainable 
bene ﬁ ts, including increased agricultural produc ti on, 
bett er foods and medicines, advanced energy storage, 
and cleaner water, air and soil. 
Our First Sustainability Report  
The 2011 Sus tainability Report  marks FMC’s entry 
into the formalized repor ti ng of economic, social and 
environmental indicators as de ﬁ ned by the Global 
Reporti  ng Initi ati ve (GRI). GRI provides a reporti  ng A COMPANY DEVOTED TO IMPROVING LIVES
FMC Corpora ti on is a diversi ﬁ ed specialty chemical company serving leading businesses globally. In 2011, FMC had 
annual sales of approximately $3.4 billion. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural 
Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals. FMC is listed on the New York Stock Exchange as ‘FMC’.
1North America
Lati n AmericaEurope, Middle East & Africa Asia Paci ﬁ c
2,519 employees
50.6% of workforce 1,104 employees22.2% of workforce 701 employees14.1% of workforce
652 employees13.1% of workforce
$976.5  (29%)$577.7 (17%) $1,188.8  (35%)
$634.9  (19%)2011 Revenue by Customer Loca ti on
(in millions)FMC Around The World
(4,976 employees globally as of December 31, 2011)
WE’VE MADE A CHOICESo, we’ve made a choice … to accelerate and 
broaden our exis ti ng sustainability e ﬀ orts by 
coordinati ng them at an enterprise level. And for 
the ﬁ  rst ti me, to tell our story.
In 2011, we assessed sustainability across FMC and de ﬁ ned how we will coordinate our repor ti ng 
eﬀ orts going forward. We started at the top. The 
FMC Board of Directors established a Sustainability Committ ee to provide strategic direc ti on and 
governance. We challenged each of our businesses to extend FMC’s compe ti ti ve advantage through 
product innova ti ons and opera ti onal eﬃ  ciencies.  
Our work now begins in earnest. With common focus areas and metrics across FMC, we will routi nely review the progress of each business and 
our company as a whole. 
As you read about FMC’s story of sustainability 
in this report, I hope you will keep in mind a few overarching themes. First, we are proud of our company’s heritage and contribu ti ons, bringing 
sustainable solu ti ons to our customers and society.  
We believe we’re well posi ti oned to do even 
more. Second, we embrace open collabora ti on 
and communica ti on with all of our stakeholders, 
including customers, suppliers, interest groups and communi ti es. Their voices are criti  cal. Third, 
we are not perfect. We know there’s more we can – and will – do. And ﬁ nally, we will con ti nue 
to operate under the highest ethical and safety standards. That is our pledge and our promise.A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
We would like to address our valued stakeholders directly by saying:WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
Sustainability has long been a part of FMC.  Although we had not highlighted it over the years, sustainability is a business prac ti ce and 
operati ng philosophy that quietly underscores all 
that we do.  But as the coming decades bring new challenges to supply the world’s rapidly growing needs, we need to acknowledge that sustainability must be more than simply a part of who we are.  It must move to the forefront of our corporate consciousness. It must be an explicit part of our decision process.
The impera ti ves – and challenges – of a growing 
world are clear. At FMC, we’re looking ahead 
with fresh eyes and a new way of thinking.  Our Vision 2015 growth strategy establishes FMC’s path to meet the world’s expanding needs with new products that ensure safe and abundant food supplies, novel technologies that are helping drive the adop ti on of electric 
vehicles, sustainable solu ti ons that clean water 
and reduce air emissions, and new food and pharmaceuti  cal innova ti ons that use ingredients 
from nature. Along the way, we are iden ti fying 
new opportuni ti es to reduce the amount of 
resources required to safely produce our products.   We strive to operate as e ﬃ  ciently as possible, 
minimizing the use of energy and raw materials, reducing impact on the environment and promoti  ng the responsible use of FMC products.  
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE2To customers: We are commi tt ed to product 
innovati on and new applica ti ons for exis ti ng 
products. We believe our sustainability e ﬀ orts 
provide exci ti ng opportuni ti es for new, high-
performance products.
To employees: The conscious pursuit of 
sustainable prac ti ces by FMC people around the 
world is a unifying force that will accelerate our eﬀ orts and increase our compe ti ti ve advantage.  
Your collec ti ve eﬀ  orts are appreciated.A FEW WORDS TO
OUR STAKEHOLDERS...FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
This report marks the beginning of a new way to 
look at FMC. It is our benchmark against which future progress and programs will be measured.  On behalf of the 5,000 FMC employees around the world, thank you for your interest in our company.
Sincerely,
Pierre Brondeau
President, Chief Executi  ve Oﬃ  cer and 
Chairman of the Board
To communi ti es and interest groups:  
A constructi  ve dialogue on sustainability 
issues helps improve performance. One of our commitments is to increase FMC’s engagement in the years to come.
To suppliers and business partners:  
We invite you to expand your commitment 
to collaborate with us in developing the best soluti ons to help us grow our businesses in a 
sustainable manner. To investors: We believe sustainability drives value for shareholders. Through our e ﬀ orts 
to recruit top talent, introduce new products, improve our e ﬃ  ciency, and expand our 
operati ons globally, we are already seeing our 
sustainability e ﬀ orts pay dividends.
To our elected oﬃ   cials:   We depend on your 
leadership to manage policy in a manner that fosters innova ti on and con ti nued investment. 
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3FMC BUSINESS GROUPS 
AND PRODUCT LINES
Operati ng Costs  (in millions) 2011
Costs of sales and services $2,210.5
Payments to Providers of Capital  (in millions) 2011
Interest $36.3
Dividends   41.2
$77.5Industrial Chemicals
Main product lines: soda 
ash, sodium bic
arbonate, 
peroxygens, persulfates, zeolites and silicates
Revenues:
$1,038.5 million31% of FMC total
Specialty Chemicals
Main product lines: lithium, 
micr
ocrystalline cellulose, 
carrageenan, alginates and natural colorants
Revenues: 
$879.1 million26% of FMC total
Agricultural Products
Main product lines: 
insecti  cides, 
herbicides 
and fungicides
Revenues: 
$1,464.5 million43% of FMC total
WE’VE MADE A CHOICEA VISION MADE REAL
4The Role Of Sustainability In Our Corporate Strategy
Our ‘Vision 2015’ goals are ambi ti ous – to generate $5 billion in annual revenue and $1.2 billion in 
earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) with high earnings stability, strong cash ﬂ ow and sustained 
returns on invested capital well above our mid-teens target, all by 2015. To achieve our growth 
and stability targets, we must address both today’s performance and posi ti on ourselves to deliver 
value over the long term. Managing our company in a sustainable way is cri ti cal to this e ﬀ ort. To 
us, sustainability is not a ﬁ nite initi ati ve. It is about integra ti ng economic, social and environmental 
considera ti ons throughout our business processes.  
A Changing World
In 2011, the world popula ti on reached 7 billion and the strains of con ti nued global growth were 
clear.  At FMC, we believe that, as a global society, we must be strategic in our collec ti ve approach 
to meeti ng the needs of a rapidly growing world. We are con ﬁ dent that innova ti on will con ti nue to 
serve the needs of the world while managing the resources consumed.  
Within FMC, we reference ﬁ ve global “market shaping shi ft s” to allow our businesses to categorize 
the mega trends in the world around them. The table below maps FMC’s core capabili ti es to these 
shift s and illustrates di ﬀ erent ways in which we can impact these trends. 
Land compe ti ti on – Increased agricultural 
eﬃ  ciency will be required to produce crops, 
biofuels, biotex ti les, bioplas ti cs, etc.Climate change  – As eﬀ orts to cope with 
greenhouse gas and other emissions 
become more aggressive, the impact on high-intensity industries will increase.Scarce resources  – A growing popula ti on 
is increasing the demand for energy, water and other basic resources.
Food expectati  ons  – A growing popula ti on 
will require increased food produc ti on and 
more nutriti  ous foods to meet the rising 
expectati ons of an expanding middle class.•  Knowledge, services and technologies that increase crop yields
•  Natural, renewable food ingredients
•  Technologies to ensure food safety by preven ti ng bacterial growth•  Technologies to increase sugar cane, corn, and other crop yields to 
 
support the use of renewable resources in fuels, plas ti cs and other 
 traditi onally hydrocarbon-based products
• Lithium technologies for electric vehicles and energy storage• Minerals required to make glass used in solar panels and energy- eﬃ  cien
t windows
•  Technologies to reduce emissions from electric u ti lity and 
 manufacturing opera ti ons
• Lithium technologies that provide an alterna ti ve to internal   
 combus ti on engines
•  Experti  se and technology to maximize crop produc ti on per acre
• Technologies that can eliminate soil contamina ti on without 
 soil reloca ti on
• Experti  se in returning brown ﬁ eld properti  es to produc ti ve useMarket Shaping Shi ft s Relevant FMC Capabili ti es
Environmental consciousness  – There is 
a growing desire for increasingly safe and environmentally benign materials.•  Innovati 
ons improving product e ﬃ  ciency while reducing 
 environmental impact
•  Technologies to improve air, soil and water quality
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFMC is commi tt ed to advancing sustainable innova ti on, 
operati ons and business prac ti ces as we seek to grow 
and improve the quality of people’s lives everywhere.
Our sustainability e ﬀ orts impact economic, social and 
environmental performance by:• Creati ng and delivering long-term shareholder value   
 through lower cost and sustained growth
• Improving products and enhancing customer    
 relati onships
• Creati 
ng greater personal and professional 
 opportuni ti es for our employees
• Making a posi ti ve impact on the communi ti es where   
 we operate and in the world at large
A Commitment To Building A Sustainable Enterprise
At the end of 2010, we formed the Chairman’s Sustainability Council, comprised of leaders from across our businesses and regions. The team assessed our existi ng business prac ti ces and benchmarked 
them against emerging best practi  ces. Using the GRI 
framework, publishing our ﬁ rst sustainability report, 
establishing dedicated sustainability resources within FMC, and crea ti ng a roadmap for our businesses to make 
coordinated progress in sustainability are all a tt ributed 
to the work of the council. In 2011, FMC formed a Sustainability Commi tt ee within its Board of Directors to 
oversee the company’s collec ti ve acti ons.
FMC now has a common language and a consistent approach to sustainability that is being driven by every work group across our organiza ti on.SUSTAINABILITY IS AN OPPORTUNITY
 5Why We’re Repor ti ng 
On Sustainability
To make headway on sustainability, we identi ﬁ ed the most important 
issues – those with a material impact on our business – and prioriti zed them. By measuring and 
reporti  ng on our performance, we 
bett er understand our impact in 
terms of environmental, social and compliance-related issues. It helps us to understand where we have signiﬁ cant opportuni ti es, where 
we can improve, and where the business is most vulnerable.
As we prepared this report, we 
discovered a great deal about ourselves. We have many strengths, but also areas that can be improved. We believe we have a powerful story to share in this, our inaugural sustainability report. With conti  nued stakeholder engagement, 
from customers who look to us to support their own sustainability goals, to coworkers who make ideas reality, we’re moving ahead stronger than ever.WE’VE MADE A CHOICEFOSTERING SAFETYBe safe, ethical and responsible in all 
business acti  viti es worldwideMINDING OUR RESOURCESUse resources e ﬀ ecti vely 
and responsibly
6As we reviewed FMC’s worldwide opera ti ons during 2011, we saw clear and encouraging trends. 
These, along with our analysis of GRI repor ti ng indicators, helped guide the evolu ti on of our 
sustainability strategy.
The centerpiece of our strategy is a clear set of goals, shown in the chart below. FMC is commi tt ed to 
advancing towards these goals and developing metrics to measure our progress along the way. This 
ﬁ rst sustainability report marks FMC’s commitment to progress in the areas outlined below. As we 
enter 2012, Implementa ti on Teams across FMC’s businesses and corporate func ti ons are developing 
measurable acti  on plans in each area.OUR PRINCIPLES AND GOALS
CULTIVATING COMMUNITYImprove the quality of life in communiti  es 
where we live and operateNURTURING TALENT Respect people and support diversityGROWING INNOVATIONDrive sustainability in our 
innovati on eﬀ orts FMC Guiding PrinciplesFMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAchieve an injury-free workplaceMinimize the overall impact of FMC 
operati ons and supply chain
7What’s A “Product That Creates 
A Sustainability Advantage?”
To advance our goal of increased 
revenue from products that create a sustainability advantage, we’ve asked each of our businesses to preferenti ally develop products 
and applica ti ons that provide a 
measurable improvement to exis ti ng 
market soluti  ons in terms of how 
they address at least one of ﬁ ve 
current sustainability challenges:
Environmental consciousness – 
There is a growing desire 
for increasingly safe and environmentally benign materials.
Scarce resources  – A growing 
populati on is increasing the demand 
for energy, water and other basic 
resources.
Climate change – As e ﬀ orts to cope 
with greenhouse gas and other 
emissions become more aggressive, the impact on high-intensity industries will increase.
Land compe ti ti on – Increased 
agricultural e ﬃ  ciency will be 
required to produce crops, biofuels, 
biotexti les, bioplas ti cs, etc.
Food expecta ti ons  – A growing 
populati on will require increased 
food produc ti on and more nutri ti ous 
foods to meet the rising expecta ti ons 
of an expanding middle class.
As a part of our de ﬁ niti on, 
sustainably advantaged products 
or applica ti ons will not retreat in 
performance in one area to improve another. IMPLEMENTATION 
TEAMS ACROSS FMC’S BUSINESSES AND CORPORATE FUNCTIONS ARE DEVELOPING MEASURABLE ACTION PLANS IN EACH AREA.
Engage with the communi ti es where we 
live and work to create posi ti ve change  Conti nue to cul ti vate a work environment 
that is ethical, suppor ti ve, and provides 
opportunity for professional and personal 
growth of employeesIncrease revenue derived from products 
that create a sustainability advantageFMC GoalsWE’VE MADE A CHOICE
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE8FMC’s state-of-the-art Innovation Center in Ewing, New Jersey, includes a 9,500 
square foot greenhouse where research and product testing take place.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CUSTOMERS GUIDE OUR CHOICES   
Increasingly, our customers are looking for more sustainable 
products and we are moving assertively to meet that 
demand. From food production and new energy solutions 
to emissions reduction technology and innovative soil 
remediation applications, FMC has a constantly evolving 
portfolio of solutions.
Many of FMC’s products provide 
multiple benefits, as detailed in the 
following examples. Our focus on 
developing sustainably advantaged 
products is about finding more of 
these solutions in the years to come.
9We find that the knowledge we’ve 
gained by listening closely and 
observing our customers helps to 
shape our innovation and product 
development efforts.  We strive 
to hear the voice of the customer.  
While we do this primarily through 
personal interactions, we also 
employ tools such as surveys and 
provide services for customers 
including training and technical 
assistance. Our feedback and 
interaction mechanisms range from 
customer forums and user groups to 
formal mechanisms for customers to 
express any aspect of service where 
they are not satisfied.  We value all 
input, especially that which leads to 
further improvement.GROWING
INNOVATIONWE’VE MADE A CHOICEIn Brazil, FMC’s close relationships 
with farmers have sparked innovations that make both our operations and those of the country’s huge agricultural community more sustainable. 
Where tradi ti onal plas ti c containers are 
sti ll in use, FMC is helping to reduce 
their impact by using containers made 
from recycled materials. We were the ﬁ rst in the industry to package our 
products in 20-liter jugs made from 85 percent recycled plas ti c. Working with 
others in our industry, we help farmers reduce disposal costs by collec ti ng used 
containers from farms and delivering them to a recycling plant.
Both of these packaging innova ti ons 
reduce the greenhouse gas emissions 
associated with our products while providing economic bene ﬁ ts. These 
projects are good examples of opportuni ti es we are beginning to 
identi fy as we incorporate sustainability 
considera ti ons within our procurement 
processes.
Reducing Emissions
FMC provides customers with innova ti ve 
products and technologies to meet increasingly strict air pollu ti on standards. 
In 2011 we formed, with two partner companies, Natron
x Technologies, LLC, to 
manufacture and distribute alkali sorbent products. 
FMC has long o ﬀ ered products to help 
customers reduce emissions. Today, these 
include the Natron
x EnProve® product 
line consis ti ng of ground trona, sodium 
bicarbonate and sodium sesquicarbonate products, along with FMC’s natural soda ash and caus ti c soda products which TecnoCalda – Managing Products Responsibly
Large farms in Brazil can take advantage of our TecnoCalda program, an integrated solu ti on for managing crop 
protecti  on products at large agribusiness opera ti ons in an 
increasingly safe, secure and e ﬃ  cient manner. Depending 
on customer needs, FMC can customize any or all of the system components:
• Bulk storage of the products
• Spray tank prepara ti on and equipment loading
• Equipment cleaning
• Waste management (both product and packaging)
• Dedicated spray mix distribu ti on trucks and/or aircra ft 
The program assists growers on a number of fronts, by 
helping them protect workers, communi ti es and soil 
with safe storage, precise mixing, responsible clean-up, and material recycling. In a cost-sensi ti ve business, 
the TecnoCalda program’s e ﬃ  ciencies also help farmers 
improve their economic sustainability. In some cases FMC helps farmers ﬁ nance their investment in the program.
Bett er Packaging For Our Products
For smaller opera ti ons where bulk buying isn’t prac ti cal, 
we have pioneered a new packaging concept that reduces greenhouse gas emissions while expanding the marketplace for some of our customers’ crops. 
Just over half the plas ti c used to make our new, exclusive 
20-liter Green Jugs is made from sugar cane. Developed in 
partnership with Unipac Company, FMC’s Green Jugs cost no more to make than the conven ti onal, petroleum-based 
variety while matching the performance of tradi ti onal jugs 
in every respect. 
Our shift  to Green Jugs reduces greenhouse gas emissions 
throughout the container’s life cycle. Based on the 
program’s early success, FMC Brazil is planning to convert our smaller containers to bioplas ti cs as well.
10
FMC is exploring packaging improvements, such as 
our sugar cane-based “Green Jug”.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTA Taste For Natural Colors
FMC’s list of naturally sourced specialty 
products expanded in 2011 with our acquisiti on of South Pole BioGroup Ltda., 
a Chilean-based manufacturer of color and nutriti on ingredients derived from 
natural sources such as plants, fruits and vegetables. With this acquisi ti on, FMC is 
able to help customers in the food and beverage industries replace colorings made from coal-tar and petroleum with naturally derived ingredients. This global market is expanding rapidly with demand for natural color solu ti ons expected to 
grow beyond $1 billion within the next four years.are produced at our Green River, Wyoming, opera ti ons. 
In various dry and wet scrubber con ﬁ gurati ons, these 
products can remove up to 98 percent of sulfur compounds and hydrochloric acid from stack emissions at u ti lity and 
manufacturing plants. They also reduce mercury emissions. To meet rapidly growing demand, Natron
x is currently 
building a 450,000 ton-per-year ground trona produc ti on 
facility at our Green River site.
During 2012, we will also progress trials of PerNOxideTM, 
an innova ti ve hydrogen peroxide-based technology that 
provides coal- ﬁ red power plants with a low capital solu ti on 
to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions.
Bringing Klozur To Remedia ti on
For more than 60 years FMC has been a leader in 
developing new applica ti ons for its chemical oxidizers. An 
example of this is Klozur® ac ti vated persulfate, which has 
helped remediate contaminated soil and groundwater sites around the world. It can be applied directly into the groundwater to rapidly degrade a wide range of organic contaminants into environmentally benign by-products. It can also help users avoid the cost and environmental impact of hauling away contaminated soil to a land ﬁ ll for 
disposal or incinera ti on. 
Innovati on That Yields Results
 FMC conti nues to develop products that increase 
agricultural produc ti vity while reducing environmental 
impact and improving safety. Our research includes identi fying new formula ti ons, reducing the total quan ti ty 
of acti  ve ingredients used in applica ti ons, and providing 
products with safer delivery systems. 
Nature itself is also providing us with solu ti ons. FMC 
recently signed an agreement with Chr. Hansen to develop 
biological solu ti ons that farmers can use to control 
nematodes and other pests. In La ti n America, we now 
distribute Regalia® Maxx biofungicide, which combats several bacterial and fungal diseases by triggering a crop’s own built-in defenses. Approved in the United States since 2009, it has seen rapid adop ti on by growers seeking safe, 
eﬀ ecti ve opti ons for protec ti ng their crops. 
In additi on, we are working to oﬀ  er growers a way to 
minimize crop spraying by applying crop protec ti on 
chemicals directly to seeds. This method can cut chemical use up to 95 percent. Through collabora ti on with external 
research ins ti tuti ons, we con ti nue to develop novel seed 
treatment technologies for even more precise, targeted releases of agricultural chemicals.The eﬀ ecti veness of Klozur has 
been repeatedly demonstrated.  For example, six years of soil vapor extrac ti on had failed to 
reduce chlorinated solvent levels to acceptable standards at a Los Angeles chemical site. Two months a ft er Klozur persulfate 
was injected into the ground at several loca ti ons, contaminant 
levels had dropped by 94-97  percent. Klozur is also e ﬀ ecti ve on 
soils contaminated by petroleum hydrocarbons, oxygenates, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), pesti cides and other substances.
11
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
FMC’s high-purity lithium is a cri ti cal ingredient in extending 
the batt ery life of electric vehicles.
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE12FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThe Salt That’s Shaking Up Our Energy Future
FMC’s lithium resources and proprietary lithium technology 
are helping to usher in a new genera ti on of vehicle 
batt eries. Lithium, the lightest metal, stabilized in ultra-
pure salt compounds, has the ability to store and release energy in a manner that is unsurpassed by any other known material. Used to assist or replace the internal combus ti on 
engine, lithium ba tt eries can help reduce carbon emissions 
and dependence on oil. As such, it is making the vision of electric vehicles (EVs) a reality.
FMC has been developing lithium ion ba tt ery technology 
since 1991. The technology is used in portable electronic 
devices such as cell phones, laptops and power tools. In recent years, this technology has enabled the development of a broad range of hybrid electric and full electric vehicles.  Today we are the second largest supplier of lithium in the world, and the world’s number one supplier of lithium hydroxide and lithium chloride used in rechargeable and non-rechargeable ba tt ery applica ti ons respecti  vely.
At the heart of FMC’s lithium sustainability story is our knowledge and patented technologies related to the eﬃ  cient produc ti on of high purity lithium products. Higher 
purity means more robust performance: an extra hour of power or an added year of ba tt ery life – both cri ti cal for EVs 
to replace today’s conven ti onal vehicles.  
Industry experts conserva ti vely project the doubling of 
lithium use in the next decade. Accordingly, FMC con ti nues 
to invest in resources and technology to make sure we stay ahead of the rise in demand for this important element. A Bigger Innova ti on Footprint
 Over 40 percent of FMC sales come from rapidly developing economies around the world. One of the largest is China, where the company will open an Asia Innova ti on Center (AIC) in early 
2013. Located in Shanghai, the Center will accelerate FMC’s ability to tailor products for the en ti re Asia region while 
developing new technologies that can be used globally. 
The new Center will serve as our 
regional hub for research and development, technical innova ti on, 
operati onal support and execu ti ve 
management. By bringing together 200 FMC scien ti sts, engineers and 
technicians who currently work in separate facili ti es, the AIC will create 
new opportuni ti es for sharing ideas, 
combining resources, and accelera ti ng 
innovati on. At the same ti me, it will 
reduce our footprint by consolida ti ng 
operati ons.
We will also use the new facility to further enhance our strong collaborati on with customers in pursuit 
of technologies that will improve their products and sustainability. These and other capabili ti es will help FMC a tt ract 
top talent and strengthen partnerships with local coopera ti ve enterprises, 
academic ins ti tuti ons, industry 
organizati ons, government and the 
community as a whole.
13Our Center for Lithium Energy Advanced Research (CLEAR) 
is the only facility focused on lithium chemistry innovation within a battery cell. Here, FMC scientists and engineers develop new product concepts, such as our Stabilized Lithium Metal Powder (SLMP®), that are creating step change improvements to electric vehicles’ travel range and battery life.
A Bigger Innova ti on Footprint
 
Over 40 percent of FMC sales come 
fr
om rapidly developing economies 
around the world. One of the largest is China, where we will open an Asia Innovati on Center in early 2013. 
Located in Shanghai, the center will accelerate FMC’s ability to tailor products for the en ti re region while 
developing new technologies that can be used globally. 
The new center will serve as our 
regional hub for research and development, technical innova ti on, 
operati onal support and execu ti ve 
management. By bringing together 200 FMC scien ti sts, engineers and 
technicians who currently work in separate facili ti es, the center will 
create new opportuniti  es for sharing 
ideas, combining resources and accelerati ng innova ti on. At the same 
ti me, it will reduce our footprint by 
consolida ti ng opera ti ons.
We will also use the new facility to further enhance our strong collaborati on with customers 
in pursuit of technologies that will improve their products and sustainability. These and other capabiliti es will help FMC a tt ract top 
talent and strengthen partnerships with local coopera ti ve enterprises, 
academic ins ti tuti ons, industry 
organizati ons, governments and the 
community as a whole.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE14024681014
1201234FMC’s greenhouse gas intensity has increased by 
11 percent since 2009. Some projects that will contribute to the reduc ti on of this intensity are 
underway and others will be considered.Global Greenhouse  Gas Emissions  
2009Total GHG Emissions (Mtons CO 2 e )
GHG Intensity
2010 20110.00.51.01.52.0
012345
Data presented on this page includes FMC owned 
and operated manufacturing loca ti ons globally. 
Our Agricultural Products business uses contract manuf
acturers to produce the majority of its ac ti ve 
ingredients. The impact of these manufacturers is not represented in the numbers provided in this report.  FMC is in the process of collec ti ng comparable 
informati on for our primary ac ti ve ingredient 
manufacturers.  As our program evolves, we will provide the informa ti on collected and any iden ti ﬁ ed 
opportuni ti es for improvement. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Our intensity in criteria emissions, largely related 
to combus ti on sources, remains essen ti ally ﬂ at.
 
 Global Criteria  
Pollutant Emissions
2009Total Criteria Pollutant Emissions 
(Ktons of PM, NO x , SO x  ,  CO, VOCs, H 2 S )
Criteria Pollutant Intensity
2010 201105101520
3.03.54.04.55.0
Waste intensity declined by 11 percent since 
2009, including a 15 percent reduc ti on in hazardous 
waste intensity. 
Waste by Type
2009Total Waste by Type (KTons )
Waste Intensity
2010 201101020304050FMC’s energy intensity has been reduced by 
3 percent since 2009.2009Total Energy Usage (Millions MMBTU)
Energy Intensity
2010 2011Global Energy Usage
4 01020304050
FMC has decreased its water intensity by 
16 percent since 2009.
 Global Water Usage 
2009Total Water Use (Billions of gallons )
Water Intensity
2010 2011012345678(Direct and Indirect)
Global (Direct and Indirect)
(Excludes Once-Thru Cooling Water)6810FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTBALANCING OUR CHOICES  
Every day, FMC looks for ways to improve our operations, 
processes and products. We work to find a positive balance between the benefits our products provide, the environmental impacts of their production, and economic realities. 
15As a manufacturing organiza ti on and 
raw materials provider, we acknowledge 
that we have an impact on the environment. Our growth plan will drive an aggregate increase in our resource use and emissions. Our objec ti ve is to 
minimize our impact per ton of product produced (i.e., intensity).
Some of the examples we share in this 
secti on are environmental successes 
with litt le or no downside, such as 
the produc ti on of biopolymers from 
renewable raw materials. Others are more challenging and complex. For example, our natural soda ash operati ons in the western United States 
are inherently energy-intensive, but use 40 percent less energy than the alterna ti ve method of soda ash 
producti on.MINDING OUR
RESOURCESWE’VE MADE A CHOICE16Over half of the world’s soda ash 
is used in glass produc ti on. Glass is 
one of the most versa ti le, stable and 
sustainable materials in use today. Its thousands of uses include jars and bott les that keep food and drink 
fresh, energy-e ﬃ  cient windows, 
insulati on for buildings, and solar 
panels that generate renewable energy. Glass is also in ﬁ nitely 
recyclable and capable of conserving raw materials and energy with every reuse.
In the pages that follow, we provide detailed accounts of these examples, as well as other complex situa ti ons, 
to help the reader be tt er understand the considera ti ons 
behind the decisions we make. We encourage all of our stakeholders to engage in a dialogue with FMC so that all aspects of issues can be brought forward and discussed. By working together, we can con ti nually 
improve our performance.
THE CASE FOR 
NATURAL SODA ASH 
FMC is the world’s largest producer of natural soda ash.  
We mine and produce soda ash and related products at two Wyoming sites, in Westvaco and Granger. These faciliti es sit directly on top of the world’s largest reserve 
of trona ore, the raw material we mine, re ﬁ ne and purify 
on-site into natural soda ash. 
In 2011 these opera ti ons consumed the largest share 
of FMC’s energy requirement and generated the most 
signiﬁ cant porti on of our greenhouse gas emissions. FMC 
conti  nuously assesses technologies to increase e ﬃ  ciency.  
Although we plan to signi ﬁ cantly increase soda ash 
producti on over the next several years, we expect both 
our energy use and emissions to drop on a per-ton of product basis through the use of technologies such as mechanical vapor recompression.
Soda ash can be produced either naturally or 
syntheti cally. On a global basis, the majority of soda 
ash is supplied by synthe ti c produc ti on. The natural 
soda ash process u ti lized at our Wyoming facili ti es is 
signiﬁ cantly less energy-intensive than the alterna ti ve. 
As shown in the diagram on page 17, U.S. natural soda ash eﬃ  ciencies, including FMC’s, are substan ti al. We can 
produce and deliver soda ash to customers around the world using less energy and emi tti  ng fewer greenhouse 
gases than if the material were produced synthe ti cally 
within a customer’s region, even within their home country.FMC conti nues to monitor the prospects 
for more stringent emissions regula ti ons 
in the United States. Such changes could reduce the compe ti ti veness of 
U.S. natural soda ash and result in an increased por ti on of synthe ti cally 
produced soda ash worldwide. This would lead to a net increase in global emissions.Synthetic vs. Natural Soda Ash Production Efﬁ  ciencies
WYOMING, USA
CHINA
Thailand Customer17% Lower GHG Emissions
(even aft er shipping)
Output: 
Soda AshTypical Synthe ti c
ProcessingNatural Soda Ash
Processing
Output: 
Soda Ash
Natural Soda Ash Processing
40% more energy e ﬃ  cient than 
syntheti c (before shipping) and
lower GHG emissionsInputs: 
Milled Trona Ore,
Energy
Energy Consumption From 
Soda Ash ProductionMmbtu per tonne soda ash
US
NaturalChina
Synthetic
Tonne GHG per tonne soda ashGHG Emissions From 
Soda Ash Production
US
NaturalChina
SyntheticInputs: 
Salt, Ammonia,Limestone, Energy
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17
Looking To The Future Of Soda Ash Produc ti on
Even though our trona mineral resources are projected to last hundreds of years, FMC has invested 
heavily over the last few decades to maximize our mine’s yield through mining and processing innovati ons. Today our opera ti ons employ longwall mining, which is able to recover about 50 percent 
more mineral resource than prior dry-mining techniques. We also use solu ti on mining which u ti lizes 
water to recover trona that was unrecoverable in previously mined sec ti ons.  WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
18BIOPOLYMERS: NATURAL 
AND RENEWABLE  
FMC BioPolymer is a leader in supplying seaweed-derived 
ingredients to customers worldwide in the form of 
carrageenan and alginates. We are also at the forefront 
of utilizing wood pulp in pharmaceutical and food 
applications.
Our carrageenan and alginates provide food, 
pharmaceutical, personal care and many other products 
with some of their most important properties. As an 
example, these ingredients may be used to give our 
customers’ products the right texture. In other cases they 
ensure that a product’s constituent ingredients – like 
a skin medication mixed into a cream – remain evenly 
distributed throughout the medium.
Our seaweed-based products can help the food and other 
industries reduce their carbon footprints. For example, 
our products enable the dairy industry to extend the 
unrefrigerated shelf life of milk and other products by as 
much as three years. After pasteurizing the milk at very 
high temperatures, processors add carrageenan to the 
milk to keep it from separating during storage. From the 
processor to the pantry shelf, this enables the industry 
and consumers alike to save energy by reducing the need 
for refrigeration. 
Alginates absorb water very quickly, making them key to 
the production of many dehydrated foods – everything 
from creams and sauces to bakery ingredients and 
marinade mixes. By removing water before shipping, 
far less energy is required to transport these products. 
Milk, for example, is 85 percent water and many other 
foods are about 60-70 percent water. Shipping them in 
dehydrated form can save enormous amounts of non-
renewable fuels and reduce their attendant carbon 
emissions.
FMC processes carrageenan and alginates from both 
farmed and naturally occurring sources of seaweed 
around the world. Off the coast of Norway, FMC and its 
supplier harvest seaweed from carefully delineated beds 
on a fixed schedule to allow constant replenishment. 
Special equipment removes mature plants while leaving 
the young ones to repopulate the area. In Australia, 
seaweed is gathered as it washes ashore.  In Madagascar (shown above) and in 
Indonesia, the Philippines and Tanzania, 
seaweed is cultivated and harvested in 
warm, shallow waters, helping provide 
remote communities with sustainable 
economies and higher standards of 
living.
You don’t have to head for the 
nearest ocean to find a source of FMC 
biopolymers. We turn specialized pulp 
from sustainably harvested trees into 
the Avicel® line of products based on 
high-purity microcrystalline cellulose 
(MCC), a natural substance used 
extensively in food and pharmaceutical 
products. 
Depending on the need, Avicel 
MCC can make foods creamier or 
crisper – without adding calories. In 
pharmaceuticals, Avicel MCC helps make 
sure tablets don’t crumble and that they 
dispense active ingredients at the  
proper rate.
Seaweed beds in Madagascar.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19
Assessing Our Biopolymer 
Environmental Performance 
For all the bene ﬁ ts biopolymers deliver, their produc ti on 
does have an environmental impact. In 2011, our 
BioPolymer business accounted for a signi ﬁ cant share of 
FMC’s total water use.
As applica ti ons and demand grow for these versa ti le 
products over the coming years, we expect to keep pace 
and develop innova ti ve new uses. But in doing so, we 
must work even harder to recycle more of the water used in our produc ti on plants and to achieve other e ﬃ  ciencies 
as well. 
THE IMPACT OF LITHIUM
Lithium ba tt ery technology is cri ti cal to moving the world 
to cleaner, more sustainable forms of energy. FMC is one of only a few companies that supply advanced lithium materials needed to bring rechargeable electric vehicles and smart grid storage systems into widespread use. 
To meet growing demand, we recently expanded the 
capacity of our mine opera ti ons by 30 percent at Salar 
del Hombre Muerto located in the Andes Mountains of northwest Argen ti na. This opera ti on serves direct 
customers as well as our FMC Lithium plants around the world. 
As lithium demand grows, so does the impact of its 
producti on. To oﬀ set this, we’re working on new 
eﬃ  ciency projects. The expansion of our opera ti ons in 
Argenti na includes an increase in our solar evapora ti on 
capability, helping us to reduce consumpti  on of energy 
and materials. We are inves ti ng in a new gas pipeline 
which will substan ti ally reduce emissions by minimizing 
our need for diesel fuel and the trucks that currently haul compressed natural gas over long mountain roads. 
In Argenti na and elsewhere, our lithium opera ti ons 
are ﬁ nding new ways to reduce waste, in part by 
recycling packaging and other materials. For example, 
in Merseyside, United Kingdom, our Bromborough plant has taken several thousand pallets a year out of its disposal stream through standardiza ti on and recycling.
At all of our opera ti ons we treat lithium 
as a precious resource. At our Argen ti na 
site, we use a patented adsorp ti on 
process that selecti  vely removes lithium 
from raw brines more e ﬀ ecti vely than 
alternati ve technologies, resulti  ng in 
improved purity and consistency. At our Bessemer City, North Carolina, plant, we are evalua ti ng an array of 
recycling projects aimed at recovering lithium from several waste streams, thus avoiding the need for emissions-intensive incinera ti on.
For the longer term, we have recently started collabora ti ng with United States 
Center for Automoti  ve Research LLC 
(USCAR), the United States Advanced Batt ery Consorti  um LLC (USABC) and 
major automo ti ve producers to pursue 
business prac ti ces and processes that 
will enable the recycling of lithium from spen
t electric vehicle ba tt eries. FMC 
scienti sts and engineers also con ti nue to 
work on improving ba tt ery life, delaying 
disposal or recycle. FMC is considering a $50 million investment to increase produc ti on 
capacity for lithium hydroxide and lithium metal while reducing byproducts and greenhouse gas emissions per unit of produc ti on. We con ti nue to explore 
advanced, more e ﬃ  cient extracti  on 
technologies.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
FMC Environmental 
Remediati on Liabili ti es
We have been named a Poten ti ally 
Responsible Party (PRP) at 30 
sites on the federal government’s Nati onal Priori ti es List (NPL), at 
which our poten ti al liability has 
not yet been se tt led. In addi ti on, 
we received no ti ce from the EPA or 
other regulatory agencies that we may be a PRP , or PRP equivalent, at other sites, including 38 sites at which we have determined that it is reasonably possible that we have an environmental liability.
20REMEDIATION: 
A COMMITMENT TO SUCCESSFUL TRANSFORMATION
Even though our historic opera ti ons were designed, 
operated and maintained using standards and best 
practi  ces at the ti  me, some opera ti ons had environmental 
impacts that require remedia ti on today. FMC has been 
working to remediate environmentally contaminated sites for a number of years. In the previous three years alone, FMC has spent approximately $90 million on environmental cleanups and we will con ti nue to work on 
environmental remedia ti on in the future. 
We take a proac ti ve and coopera ti ve approach with 
regulators, oﬃ   cials and the local community to iden ti fy 
alternati ve reuse scenarios for these sites. Each property 
is uniquely situated, and some may have remedia ti on 
needs. FMC is commi tt ed to ﬁ nding ways to return these 
properti  es to func ti oning, safe and bene ﬁ cial uses.
One example is a site in Princeton, New Jersey, previously home to our Chemical Research and Development Center for more than half a century. When our research model changed, we needed a smaller, more suitable locati on. We sold our original, 160-acre property to 
Princeton HealthCare System for transforma ti on into a 
diverse healthcare campus. To accommodate the new owner’s ti  ght construc ti on schedule, FMC accelerated 
remediati on of its former facility. Scheduled to open in 
2012, the community is well on its way to gaining easier access to a world-class, 220-bed medical center as well as rehabilita ti on services, a ﬁ  tness center, re ti rement living, 
a park and other facili ti es.
In Pocatello, Idaho, FMC has worked for more than a decade with local and state governments, economic development organiza ti ons, the local Indian tribe, and 
the community to iden ti fy redevelopment op ti ons 
for the site of a former FMC elemental phosphorus producti on plant – once the largest 
in the world. In 2011, the U.S. Environmental Protecti  on Agency (EPA) 
proposed a remedia ti on plan for the 
site. Despite site complexi ti es, the EPA 
is expected to issue the plan in 2012.  We are prepared to implement the proposed plan, the ﬁ rst step towards 
redevelopment, as soon as EPA resolves remaining uncertain ti es with other 
stakeholders. In 2005, we turned over 
the redevelopment rights for part of the pr
operty to the local Power County 
Redevelopment Authority. We look forward to beginning ac ti ve remedia ti on 
of the plant so that the site can again provide area residents with jobs and a strong base for further economic development.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
19In San Jose, California, FMC remediation efforts helped spawn the 
transformation of a former manufacturing and testing facility into 
a mixed-use retail and entertainment development, including a 
soccer practice field and plans for a Major League Soccer stadium.
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT       21
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE22FMC’s culture of safety is woven into the fabric of how we work each day, 
reinforced with regular reminders to keep “Hearts and Minds Always on Safety”.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
IT’S THE ONLY CHOICE   
Safety is one of FMC’s top values. If we do not strive 
to protect the safety of our employees, customers and 
surrounding communities, all of the other positive things 
we do will not matter. We conduct business in a manner 
that is protective of public and occupational health, 
employee and customer safety, and the environment. 
Our commitment to safety is throughout 
the product lifecycle. FMC’s safety 
practices cover how we source 
materials, how we manufacture 
our products, and the responsible 
stewardship of those products once they 
are distributed and utilized worldwide. 
It’s a safety continuum that flows from 
inside our company to the end user.  
We view every member of the value 
chain as an important stakeholder. To 
us, safety is collaboration among our 
coworkers, key suppliers, customers, 
distributors, contractors and commercial 
partners worldwide.
We provide technical and safety 
information as well as training to those 
who handle our products. We maintain 
call centers, informational websites and 
emergency hotlines that are available 24 
hours a day, seven days a week. When 
we learn of product misuse, we take the 
appropriate corrective action.
FMC employees understand that we will 
not do something if it cannot be done 
safely. If necessary, an operation will be 
shut down until the appropriate safety 
measures are in place.
23SAFETYFOSTERINGSafety Performance Indicators
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE24Our Record Of Safety In The Workplace
Our global safety e ﬀ orts focus on just one goal: no 
injuries. In 2011, we did not experience a recordable 
injury at 21 of our 48 sites. We will con ti nue to learn and 
improve un ti l we are able to achieve zero injuries at all 48 
sites consistently. We ﬁ rmly believe every safety incident 
can be prevented.
The behaviors of everyone in the company are expected 
to visibly demonstrate: 
•We treat safety as a top priority and provide needed 
 resources and management support.
•Safety is a key considera ti on for all opera ti onal and 
 business decisions.•We look out for the safety and well-being of coworkers, 
 customers, suppliers, distributors, business partners  and the communi ti es where our products are made 
 or used.
Though our occupa ti onal safety record had con ti nuously 
improved for 15 years, in 2011 we had a 6 percent 
increase in the recordable injury rate and one fatality. This reversal in our performance is unacceptable. We are vigorously re-focusing our e ﬀ orts to return to con ti nuing 
improvement. Speci ﬁ cally, we have developed the 
following four-point plan:
•Address sites with highest injury rates
•Address leading causes of injuries
•Expand proac ti ve safety e ﬀ orts
•Sustain performance where it is posi ti ve
*Signiﬁ cant de ﬁ ned as Category 1 or Category 2.Unfortunately, during 2011 FMC 
experienced a fatality for the ﬁ rst 
ti me since 2007. This occurred when 
a contract employee was involved in a motorcycle accident in Indonesia. A thorough inves ti gati on was conducted 
and steps are being taken worldwide to avoid the reoccurrence of similar incidents.
Our process safety results have con-
ti nued to improve in recent years. We 
succeeded in achieving zero signi ﬁ cant 
process safety incidents in 2011. There were 33 minor process safety incidents, 50 percent fewer than any of the previous three years. We believe our focus on leading indicators such as process safety risk assessments and near misses signi ﬁ cantly contributed to this 
success.
FMC’s Culture Of Safety  
To reach our goal of zero injuries, we depend on our emplo
yees. Everyone, 
no matt er what their role in the 
organizati on, needs to be fully engaged 
in reinforcing our safety culture.
FMC endeavors to have employees 
think about safety all the ti me. Our 
Safety Shares help make this happen by reminding each of us of the importance of safety in all things. It’s a simple concept that works amazingly well.
Communica ti ng the importance of a 
safety culture is one thing; con ti nuing 
to develop and maintain a strong safety 
culture is quite another. FMC’s ac ti ons 
are structured around ﬁ  ve major, 
interrelated elements described as follows:2009 2010 2011
Total Recordable Cases 
Incidence Rate (TRIR).92 .70 .74
Lost Workday Case Incidence Rate.39 .21 .33
Work-related fataliti  es 0 0 1
Number of signi ﬁ cant* 
process safety incidents 93 0FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 251. Hearts And Minds Always On Safety: This safety 
communica ti ons initi ati ve provides FMC employees 
worldwide with a variety of relevant tools, techniques 
and resources to help build and maintain safety awareness and experti se. Whether at a 
manufacturing, research and development, or administra ti ve locati on, 
employees can ﬁ  nd safety 
tools and informa ti on on our internal website. 
This program is also used to standardize common practi  ces such as pre-task safety reviews and regular 
safety mee ti ngs.
2. Designing And Opera ti ng Safe Workplaces: 
This program is directed at improving safety in both the physical design of the workplace and employee acti viti es. At new and exis ti ng plants, labs and o ﬃ  ces, we 
formalize risk assessments, occupa ti onal safety reviews, 
ergonomics training and design, and other essen ti al 
processes. 
The program also extends to due diligence reviews of 
occupati onal and process safety assessments conducted 
before mergers and acquisi ti ons take place. These 
reviews examine and iden ti fy high-priority safety items 
so they can be addressed as businesses are integrated into FMC.
3. Safety Training And Development: We are 
conti  nually expanding a worldwide group of safety 
leaders through our targeted training and development initi ati ves that address the speci ﬁ c safety challenges 
facing each business unit. Along with our en ti re 
Executi  ve Committ  ee, over 1,400 managers and front-
line supervisors have completed FMC’s Safety Leadership Training Program. 
In 2011, we revised our Introductory Safety Training 
course that introduces FMC’s safety programs to new employees. We also ini ti ated a Driver Training Course for 
employees who have a higher exposure to driving risks, such as our salespeople. 4. Auditi ng And Reviews: All FMC 
faciliti es conduct periodic safety, health 
and security audits. Audits and reviews are integrated into a single assessment ensuring consistency across the company.
5. Crisis Management: Our global 
operati ons conti nue to expand, including 
those in rapidly developing economies. To ensure a properly func ti oning crisis 
management process wherever we have an operati on, we con ti nually update our 
Crisis Management Plan to re ﬂ ect the 
latest changes in our organiza ti on. We 
also conduct ongoing crisis management What’s A Safety Share?
Quick – think of a safety ti p that 
others could ﬁ nd valuable at work, 
at home or anywhere else.You’ve just completed the ﬁ rst step 
of a Safety Share. Every ti me an 
employee meets with two or more people, we ask that the mee ti ng 
start with one or more of the parti cipants o ﬀ ering a safety ti  p. It 
is one more way we work to embed safety into our company culture. We are also doing Safety Shares when we meet with customers and suppliers and they’ve responded favorably, with an apprecia ti on 
that we work together to keep one another safe.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
exercises during the year and work to ensure that local 
and regional crisis management plans integrate well with our overall corporate plan.
Contracti  ng With Safety In Mind
FMC’s Agricultural Products Group obtains many of the acti ve ingredients it uses in product formula ti ons from 
external suppliers. Many of these suppliers are located in rapidly developing economies. Contract manufacturing these materials helps FMC keep our products a ﬀ ordable 
for farmers around the world. 
FMC realizes that for the sustainable manufacture of 
these chemicals, the utmost a tt enti on must be paid 
to the safety and environmental performance of our suppliers’ facili ti es. We do this by training our suppliers 
to meet rigorous FMC opera ti onal and safety standards 
including audit procedures and repor ti ng requirements. 
In selecti  ng suppliers, we take a collabora ti ve approach 
such that FMC requirements are met. For key suppliers, teams of FMC scien ti sts, engineers, supply 
chain specialists, managers and others work with the manufacturer in both the design and opera ti on of 
its processes.  
This hands-on approach to performance management 
has been very successful in con ti nually improving Safety Outside The Workplace
In 2011, we provided defensive driver training to most of our sales force. A number of our salespeople were so apprecia ti ve of what they 
learned in this program, they indicated that they were going to enroll members of their families to help ensure their safety. FMC frequently a tt empts to provide ti ps, 
training or equipment that can also be useful for home safety.  
safety, environmental, business and other s
tandards for FMC suppliers. For 
example, one Chinese supplier that we have worked with for over 10 years has developed a reputa ti on as a top 
performer. This reputa ti on has att racted 
business from other global corpora ti ons, 
and sets new compe ti ti ve expecta ti ons 
for the supplier’s peers.
Our Mine Safety Team in Green River, 
Wyoming, has received numerous honors in nati onal and interna ti onal compe ti ti ons 
sponsored by the Mine Safety and Health Administra ti on (see sidebar on 
page 27).
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
26FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHealthy – And Safe – Compe ti ti on
We are constantly inves ti ng ti me, 
money and resources in safety 
training, preparing for mul ti ple 
scenarios and learning how to work most e ﬀ ecti vely with local 
emergency responders. One example of this preparedness is the mine rescue team at FMC’s Green River, Wyoming, mine and processing plant. 
Seeking independent valida ti on of 
their readiness, the Green River 
responders parti  cipate in na ti onal 
competi ti ons and consistently rank 
in the top echelon, having won nati onal and ﬁ rst place awards at 
the last three events. They train throughout the year to prepare for mine emergency response, with the hope that they never need to use it. Our team also networks with local and regional mine rescue teams to help keep safety at the forefront of community priori ti es.
27PRODUCT SAFETY 
AND HANDLING
Each of our businesses incorporates appropriate health, 
safety, security and environmental factors into the product lifecycle. Our holis ti c approach starts with design 
and development and extends through manufacturing, distributi on, storage, end use, and ﬁ  nal recycle or 
disposal. Along the way, those who handle the product are provided with informa ti on and training on hazards 
and safe handling prac ti ces. 
Each business has an employee responsible for product stewardship who is charged with assessing and documen ti ng the hazards and risks associated with 
each product. This formal governance process helps us prioriti ze products for risk management and provides the 
appropriate level of informa ti on and outreach.
FMC uses a variety of tools to help ensure that safety informati on and knowledge reach those who need it, 
starti ng with required documenta ti on such as the Safety 
Data Sheet and product label.
Depending on the degree of hazard and poten ti al for 
exposure, FMC also provides a range of informa ti on, 
including some of the items below:• Customer educa ti on initi ati ves
• Technical brochures and risk informa ti on
• Training in safe handling prac ti ces
• Safe handling guidelines and recommenda ti ons for 
 the use of protec ti ve equipment
• Technical support 
• Order screening to ensure customer quali ﬁ cati on
• Tracking of customer issues and incidents to iden ti fy   
 areas for improvement
• On-site customer visits
A few examples in this report demonstrate FMC’s product stewardship commitment in ac ti on. We are working 
directly with end users and their families in Thailand and Brazil to promote proper handling of our insec ti cides. We 
pioneered the use of returnable containers in agriculture, and we use trained, quali ﬁ ed drivers to 
deliver hydrogen peroxide to ensure safe handling. 
Encouraging Safe Handling And Addr
essing Misuse
The United Na ti ons predicts global food 
producti on must double to feed the 
world’s popula ti on, which is expected to 
reach more than 9 billion by 2050. FMC is a leader in supplying farmers around WE’VE MADE A CHOICE28the world with the products they need to maintain crop 
health despite the mul ti tude of insects, weeds and plant 
diseases that can reduce crop yields.
As with all FMC businesses, our Agricultural Products 
Group incorporates health, safety, security and environmental considera ti ons into every stage of a 
product’s life cycle. In our labeling, safety data sheets, product educa ti on and other technical assistance, 
FMC provides the informa ti on farmers need to use our 
products safely. FMC technical experts conduct training meeti ngs with distributors, farmers and applicators 
on the safe and responsible use of our products. We communicate with our distributors and customers about the latest informa ti on on our products, their intended 
uses, legal requirements, and the consequences of misuse.
In Thailand, for instance, we are not only training 
farmers on how to safely use our Furadan® insec ti cide/
nemati cide, but also equipping them to do so. Furadan 
is one of most e ﬀ ecti ve and a ﬀ ordable products that rice 
farmers can use to combat insect infesta ti ons. Through 
our relati onships with distributors and retailers, as well 
as direct mee ti ngs with farmers, we distribute free safety 
kits (2,000 to date) consis ti ng of a mask, rubber gloves 
and rubber boots. This personal protec ti ve equipment 
allows farmers to safely apply Furadan to crops. We also conduct training and cer ti ﬁ cati on for our distributors, 
dealers and farmers, and provide outreach and support to local medical professionals so they are prepared to recognize and treat problems if they arise from accidental exposure. Instruc ti on manuals are handed out during 
the training sessions, and all product packaging and promoti  onal materials contain messages direc ti ng users 
to the manual.
Although we take many precauti  ons and many thousands 
of farmers around the world use our products without 
incident, occasionally we learn of the misuse of products, someti mes with serious results. FMC Corpora ti on is a member of 
the American Chemistry Council (ACC) and a proud par ti cipant in 
the Responsible Care® program – the industry’s premier voluntary environmental, health, safety and security ini ti ati ve. Like all 
parti cipati ng companies, FMC has 
made a CEO-level commitment to uphold the program’s elements and guiding principles. One of the most far-reaching elements of Responsible Care is product stewardship. Companies also are committ  ed to open and transparent 
reporti  ng, and submit annual data 
on their progress. This informa ti on 
is made publicly available on the ACC website. 
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTObjecti vity And Exper ti se
To provide perspecti  ve and 
guidance on important issues, 
FMC’s Agricultural Products Group has established an independent Global Sustainability Council whose members have a diverse range of external experti  se related to 
stewardship and sustainability practi  ces for our en ti re range of 
agricultural products. The members of the Sustainability Council include a grower from India, as well as representa ti ves from the following 
organizati ons: Panthera (the world’s 
leading big cat preserva ti on NGO); 
the Academy of Natural Sciences (the oldest natural science research insti tuti on and museum in the 
Americas); Emerging Agriculture LLC (a consul ti ng ﬁ rm that advises 
on crop sustainability policies); the Partnership to Cut Poverty and Hunger in Africa; and Hong Kong University’s Center for Corporate Governance and Financial Policy. 
The objec ti ves of the Agricultural 
Products Group Global 
Sustainability Council are to:
• Inform FMC of emerging   
 
agricultural, environmental,   
 conserva ti on and/or social issues,  
 trends and opportuni ti es related  
 to our agricultural business;
• Advise FMC on enhancing our  
 
global stewardship program and  
 sustainability policies;
• Recommend metrics for   
 
assessing global stewardship and  
 sustainability prac ti ces;
• Provide input to support FMC  
 
Agricultural Products as a leader  
 in sustainable prac ti ces and   
 products; and
• Avail our management with 
 criti  
cal thinking, candid   
 discussions and advice for ac ti on.
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29Case in point: In Kenya, in 2008, we received reports 
that local ca tt le herders were using Furadan 5G granular 
insecti  cide to kill lions that were feeding on their 
livestock – a serious and unlawful use of the product. We conferred with our distributor and other interested parti es, including NGOs, and although there was a lack 
of direct evidence that our Furadan 5G product was involved, we took no chances and stopped expor ti ng the 
product into Kenya. 
FMC strongly condemns the inten ti onal misuse of 
any product, agricultural or otherwise. We work with 
numerous agencies to ensure the safe and legal use of all of our products, and we are ac ti vely involved in training 
in the appropriate use of Furadan 5G.  
In Kenya, however, as well as in the neighboring 
countries of Uganda and Tanzania, we concluded that our educa ti on and stewardship programs alone could 
not adequately reduce the risk of illegal or improper use brought on by the con ti nuing human-wildlife con ﬂ ict 
in that region. Therefore, out of cau ti on, we stopped 
distributi on and sales of Furadan 5G in those countries.
In 2009, FMC conducted a buy-back program where an FMC team traveled more than 15,000 miles throughout Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania buying back Furadan 5G from local retailers. The buy-back program remains open and we encourage anyone who ﬁ nds Furadan 5G 
in East Africa to contact FMC. In 2010, a ft er additi onal 
investi gati on, we ended shipments to South Africa 
as well. 
FMC believes the proper use of Furadan 5G, as directed 
on the product label, does not pose a risk to human health, wildlife or the environment. We con ti nue 
to promote its responsible and safe use elsewhere because of its high value to the farming community.  We investi gate any reports of misuse and also inform 
local governments of those reports. We support strong enforcement ac ti ons against illegal pes ti cide use. And 
we conti nue to explore new approaches to ensure our 
products are used safely and properly.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
Mentoring, idea-sharing and team collabora ti on are central to 
FMC’s innova ti on and culture of excellence.
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE30FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMAKING FMC THE BETTER CHOICE  
Employees are at the core of FMC’s success. This has always 
been true and it has never been more important than it is today. Attracting and retaining a world-class workforce is vital to our future.
As a global organiza ti on, our posi ti ons on 
ethical standards, how we treat people, 
and labor rela ti on practi ces are cri ti cal 
to our business and play an important role in our sustainability e ﬀ orts. Beyond 
this, these values are essen ti al to 
compete for the world’s best talent. As we aggressively grow our businesses in rapidly developing economies, we must ensure consistent communica ti ons as it 
relates to FMC’s ethical standards.
31TALENTNURTURINGSustainability: Part Of Everyday Life  
In 2011, we introduced “Doing 
W
ell, Doing Good” in our internal 
communica ti ons.  Its origin is 
uncertain but Benjamin Franklin, American founding father and long-ti me resident of Philadelphia (where 
FMC has its headquarters), is quoted as saying, “Do well by doing good.”  This senti ment strongly re ﬂ ects our 
sustainability commitment: To do well as a business, we must do the right things in the right ways. To us, the phrase expresses the interdependence of our economic, environmental and social responsibility e ﬀ orts and the 
need to look at every ac ti vity from 
this perspec ti ve.
The Right Chemistry. For Sustainability.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE32Looking For Performance And Poten ti al
Apart from maintaining strong ethical values worldwide, 
we work to make FMC a posi ti ve and dynamic place to 
build a career. At the heart of this e ﬀ ort is our approach 
to Talent Management. Talent Management is the process by which we a tt ract, develop and retain top 
talent.  This program is essen ti al to our ability to put 
the right people in the right jobs at the right ti me. By 
doing so, we can ensure the long-term viability and competi ti veness of our company.
FMC gives managers the tools and skills necessary to hire and promote the best candidates, as well as to recognize their development needs and poten ti al opportuni ti es. 
We engage employees and give promising individuals opportuni ti es to develop through on-the-job experiences, 
special assignments and projects. 
In the pages that follow you will read a sampling of 
stories and personal viewpoints that illustrate how our employees have created opportuni ti es for themselves, 
the company and those they work with, and how FMC supports their endeavors. TWANNA BROWN
Division Finance Manager
Lithium DivisionCharlott 
e, North Carolina
On The FMC Working Environment:
One great thing about working here is 
the ma
tch I ﬁ  nd between my personal 
values and those of the company: strength in integrity, ethics, strong commitment to the environment and safety. I consistently ﬁ nd new ways to 
incorporate those values into my outside life, like looking at new situa ti ons from a 
safety standpoint.
On Being Challenged:
You’re encouraged to grow and stretch 
her
e. My most recent promo ti on has 
expanded my ﬁ  nance responsibili ti es 
from our Bessemer City, North Carolina, plant to plants in Argen ti na, the United 
Kingdom, China and India. Learning to work across di ﬀ erent cultures has been 
both challenging and gra ti fying. 
On Bringing Others Along:
As a manager, I feel a responsibility to 
help people dev
elop their talents. For 
instance, a ft er we won a $6 million U.S. 
government grant for lithium-ion ba tt ery 
research, I asked an employee repor ti ng 
to me to oversee our compliance with the grant’s special audi ti ng 
requirements. She expanded her skill set, gained exposure across FMC, and is now bett er equipped to manage people 
and projects.I AM FMC
Bromborough’s Environmental and 
Sustainability Commi tt ee (see next page).FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLAURA FITZPATRICK 
Informati  on Technology Manager, 
United Kingdom and IrelandBioPolymer DivisionCork, Ireland
Linking Sustainability To Everyday Work
Lyndsey Smith is the Environmental Manager at the FMC Bromborough, United Kingdom, plant and a member of the opera ti on’s Environmental and Sustainability 
Committ ee. This nine-member, cross-func ti onal 
committ  ee has proven that, given the chance, a team of 
employees can volunteer and make important, innova ti ve 
contributi ons to minimize environmental impact – 
developing new skills along the way.
As Lyndsey explains, an electrical engineer on the 
team might take on a project to quan ti fy the savings 
that LED ligh ti ng could bring to the warehouse. A 
maintenance technician might audit the e ﬃ  ciency of a 
recycling program. A ﬁ nance specialist could advise a 
sub-commi tt ee investi gati ng opportuni ti es for reducing 
water usage. Lyndsey stands by to guide and help each one. Over the last year, commi tt ee-driven ini ti ati ves have 
helped the plant reduce water and hazardous waste intensity by 16 percent and 10 percent respec ti vely. 
“The diversity of the commi tt ee has really helped it make 
a dramati c change in the culture here,” notes Lyndsey. 
“Environmental sustainability has risen to the level of safety in our collec ti ve consciousness – from every part 
of the plant ﬂ oor to the front o ﬃ  ces and even back into 
employee homes.” 
Teams like Bromborough’s Environmental and 
Sustainability Commi tt ee help FMC to bene ﬁ t from its 
most important resource – its people.On The Appeal Of Working For FMC:
Working as part of a global team has 
been v
ery bene ﬁ cial for me and provides 
exposure to di ﬀ erent FMC business 
units and cultures. Our global support network and ‘One I.T.’ philosophy has delivered signi ﬁ cant business value and 
career opportuni ti es which I have found 
very fulﬁ  lling.
On Managerial Support:
I look at my manager as a teacher as 
w
ell. We have regular development 
discussions to review areas of work that interest me. Through his support, I have been exposed to some very challenging and rewarding assignments, which have been instrumental in the progression to my present role.
On Why She’s Con ti 
 nued Building Her 
Career With FMC:
I’ve always been able to ﬁ  nd  
opportuni ti es and support at FMC to 
get involved with anything that has 
interested me. As I’ve grown both professionally and in my family life, especially since the birth of my son, the support I’ve received from the FMC team – especially my manager – has been invaluable.I AM FMC
FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33WE’VE MADE A CHOICE34Engaging Employees In The Development Process
FMC is commi tt ed to providing a suppor ti ve environment 
with ample opportunity for personal and professional 
growth. This is aligned with our ambi ti on to retain our 
best people and promote from within the company to the extent possible. We encourage con ti nual development to 
help employees improve their long-term marketability. 
Our philosophy is that learning and growing on the job 
are the primary means of development. Individuals and their managers share responsibility for career growth. The needs of FMC businesses create opportuni ti es for 
employees to undertake challenging work assignments.  Employees and managers acti  vely look for opportuni ti es 
that match the employees’ interests. Coaching, educa ti on 
and ongoing feedback are available to both the employee and the manager to support development.
Additi onally, our Educa ti on Program empowers 
employees to prepare themselves for further 
development opportuni ti es by supporti  ng the cost of 
tuiti on and fees for approved con ti nuing educa ti on 
programs. We also con ti nue to work on programs that 
help prepare and support our employees who are transiti oning into re ti rement. These programs include 
career transi ti on support, services through local 
employee assistance programs, ﬁ nancial counseling from 
our bene ﬁ t vendors, and personalized care from local 
human resources managers and supervisors.
Diversity And Longevity
Diversity is an important aspect of FMC’s talent management philosophy of a tt racti ng, developing and 
retaining the best talent worldwide. As we grow and expand our business, seeking diverse, global managers is an important aspect of our strategy.
Our employment and advancement decisions are 
based on ability, educa ti on, training, performance, 
potenti al and experience. FMC has a strong set of an ti -
discrimina ti on guidelines and policies, which we adhere 
to and distribute to all employees to assure a clear understanding of this very important policy.STEVE HICKERSON
Business Leader, Granger Operati  on
Alk
ali Division
Granger, Wyoming
On Being Exposed To Opportunity:For me, FMC is always a company that 
e
xposes employees to new experiences.  
I was fortunate to be named venture manager of a startup and to suddenly be working with contractors, engineers, mechanics, operators and a host of other disciplines. It was great preparati on for the posi ti ons that have 
followed. 
On Developing New Skills:
Broad-based experience is valued 
her
e. There’s a focus on helping people 
build new cross-func ti onal skill sets. 
You have engineers who’ve had hands-on experience with our equipment, and front line supervisors with process chemistry knowledge and the experience of working on the shop ﬂ oor. 
On Bringing Others Along:
We try to stay mindful of the talent 
acr
oss our opera ti on and give people 
the chance to gain greater experience. You have to give people chances to ﬁ nd their own direc ti on, and help them 
discover and develop skills they may not even know they possess.I AM FMCFMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFMC consistently works to iden ti fy both 
quali ﬁ ed women and men when a posi ti on 
needs to be ﬁ lled. Further, development 
opportuni ti es that exist for women within 
FMC are consistent with those that exist 
for men. Women currently represent more than 20 percent of our workforce worldwide. FMC complies with speci ﬁ c 
country and local laws that focus on diversiﬁ  cati on of the workforce. FMC also 
reviews global diversity measures quarterly with its Execu ti ve Committ  ee. We will 
conti  nue to devote a tt enti on to this area to 
assure that we con ti nuously improve the 
diversity of our workplace.21.9%Women In The Workplace
(as of December 31, 2011)
Percentage Of Women Employed At FMC
18.6%Women In Senior Management*
26.5%Women In Professional Roles*
*Exempt workforce
35FMC’s global single-digit voluntary turnover rate is at an acceptable level given the countries in which we operate. We believe our eﬀ orts to nurture and develop talent 
are important aspects of our success. FMC conti  nues to iden ti fy ways to improve its 
talent management e ﬀ orts in an a tt empt 
to retain this compe ti ti ve advantage and 
maintain an e ﬀ ecti ve succession planning 
process. Exempt   
5.9%
Non-exempt  5.9%
Hourly  
1.5%Globally  4.6%Voluntary Turnover Rates
(Voluntary Resigna ti ons for 2011, Divided by
Average Total Number of Employees)WE’VE MADE A CHOICE36Management Of Business Ethics
Ethical conduct is central to FMC’s ongoing success. 
This applies to all aspects of responsible corporate ac ti on, 
from business and labor prac ti ces to reporti  ng of possible 
ethics and legal viola ti ons, and equitable treatment of 
employees everywhere. 
FMC’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (Code) 
summarizes the legal and ethical principles that we follow in our daily work. FMC’s commitment to the Code starts at the corpora ti on’s highest level. The FMC 
Corporate Responsibility Commi tt ee manages FMC’s 
overall compliance with applicable law and FMC policies (including the Code) and compliance training.  This committ  ee consists of our chief execu ti ve oﬃ  cer, chief 
ﬁ nancial o ﬃ  cer, execu ti ve vice president of human 
resources, execu ti ve vice president and general counsel, 
and one of our business presidents. The group also considers the appropriate response to signi ﬁ cant ethics 
and compliance ma tt ers. The Commi tt ee reports to the 
Audit Commi tt ee of the FMC Board of Directors.
FMC employees worldwide are encouraged to report suspected viola ti ons of the FMC Code and other legal or 
ethical viola ti ons through a con ﬁ denti al and anonymous 
system managed by Global Compliance, a leading provider of outsourced governance, risk management and compliance services. Employees can contact Global Compliance 24 hours a day, 7 days per week either by phone, web or mail. Global Compliance provides multi lingual service and has trained sta ﬀ  to handle 
ethics calls.  
It is FMC’s policy to inves ti gate any reported viola ti on 
of the Code, other FMC policy, or applicable law, and to 
take appropriate acti  on, as determined by FMC, based 
on the results of the inves ti gati on. It is also FMC’s policy 
that every employee may report viola ti ons with no fear of 
retaliati on by co-workers, supervisors, or others.SIMON ZHANG
Director, Manufacturing & Sourcing
Agricultural Products GroupHong K
ong, China
On Finding New Challenges:
There’s never a shortage of challenge 
and sati sf
acti on here. In 2000, I was 
invited to join a newly established team in Hong Kong to ﬁ nd companies in Asia 
and elsewhere that we could help to become long-term suppliers for key ingredients of our agricultural products. We really started from scratch. Today, it’s a criti  cal part of the supply chain for 
a $1.4 billion business, and my team manages it.
On Being Exposed To Opportunity:
Opportuni ti 
es can come fast at FMC, and 
from anywhere in the world. We’re big, but not in comparison to some of our competi tors. But we’re fast and nimble. 
It’s in our genes. When opportuni ti es 
come up, management is ready to let you move fast. 
On What’s Kept Him At FMC:
I enjoy the chemistry and engineering 
aspects of the job, and w
orking with 
people in di ﬀ erent cultures and at every 
level of their organiza ti ons. There’s 
tremendous sa ti sfacti on in seeing the 
manufacturers who’ve been supplying us grow over the years and progress to become real industry leaders.I AM FMCFMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37Comprehensive Training And Informa ti on Support
Training on general and speci ﬁ c topics in ethics is part of 
every FMC employee’s experience. All new employees 
receive a copy of our Code and must cer ti fy in writi ng 
that they will comply with its provisions. New employees also receive online or classroom training within their ﬁ rst year of employment. FMC conducts training and 
recerti ﬁ cati on of all employees every three years.  
This training was conducted in 2011; 97 percent of employees successfully completed the Code training and recerti ﬁ cati on.
To supplement this support, we conduct focused training for employees on topics such as an ti -discrimina ti on and an ti -
harassment policies. Training on the Foreign Corrupt Prac ti ces Act is also conducted 
online and through training sessions conducted by the FMC Law Department. FMC human resource professionals are well versed in the local requirements where they operate. Both internal and external legal resources are available to our human resource professionals to support them in appropriately managing these important policies.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE38Innovative FMC educational programs in Brazil utilize performance art  
to instill daily habits of safety and responsibility among school children  
who become key influencers of their parents, primarily farmers who  
use our chemical products.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CHOOSING TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE   
We’re a chemical company, however, everything we do is 
about being a valuable part of a larger community. We are 
able to do business because we are trusted members of 
the community. We take an active role, both as individual 
employees and as a company. 
What Community Means To FMC  
 
FMC’s community outreach and 
involvement comes in many forms.   
We offer several programs to encourage 
employee volunteerism and financial 
contribution, from our Dollars for Doers 
initiative that complements service 
with financial support, to helping feed 
families by supporting local food banks. 
Community also means working and 
communicating with our neighbors. 
We work hard to build and maintain 
relationships through community 
outreach in the places where we 
operate. We strive for an open and 
honest dialogue, listening to community 
leaders and interested parties while 
providing information about our 
business at that location.
39COMMUNITYCULTIVATINGWE’VE MADE A CHOICE40Our Philanthropy Program 
In 2010, FMC created a Philanthropy Commi tt ee to 
oversee our philanthropic e ﬀ orts and to expand our 
community outreach. The commi tt ee works to ensure 
that our charitable ac ti viti es align with our business goals, 
philosophies and values. In addi ti on, it helps ensure FMC 
contributi ons make a di ﬀ erence by suppor ti ng programs 
that have a measurable impact in the communi ti es where 
our employees, business partners and other stakeholders 
live and work. In some cases FMC employees serve on the boards of charitable organiza ti ons. 
We focus on programs, projects and agencies in targeted areas: 
Educati 
on And Science:  Support of science, technology, 
engineering and ma
themati cs (STEM) is vitally important 
for technology and manufacturing-based companies such as FMC. The commi tt ee considers STEM partnerships with 
insti tuti ons of higher learning, as well as programs and 
projects that complement more broad-based educa ti on 
initi ati ves for children in FMC communi ti es.
Health And Human Services:  The commi tt ee 
 considers 
programs and projects that bene ﬁ t those least able 
to help themselves. Some agencies we support in this category include the American Red Cross and hunger-relief agency Philabundance.
Arts And Culture: We support educa ti 
 on in and access to 
the arts and culture, to enrich the communi ti es where we 
live and work.
Conserva ti on And Environment: We focus on programs 
and pr
ojects that protect and preserve natural resources. 
In additi on, initi ati ves that help demonstrate FMC’s 
environmental stewardship are considered.
The scope of the commi tt ee’s eﬀ orts goes beyond 
ﬁ nancial support. We encourage employees to volunteer 
and collaborate with business partners, community 
leaders and other stakeholders. 
The commi tt ee provides governance through the review 
and approval of grant applica ti ons. It also evaluates the 
success of FMC’s philanthropic e ﬀ orts on an annual basis 
and reports on these e ﬀ orts to our Execu ti ve Committ  ee.Supporti ng Our Communiti  es
In 2011, FMC philanthropic 
contributi ons totaled more than 
$1.1 million. This money ﬂ owed 
through a number of formal channels including:
• United Way match program,   
 
which accounted for roughly a 
 third of the total in 2011. FMC 
 also par ti cipates in Day of Caring, 
 in which employees donate  their ti me.
• Matching Gi ft 
  program, in which 
 contribu ti ons made by employees 
 can be eligible for matching  funds of up to $10,000 per year  to qualifying chari ti es.
• Dollars for Doers, where 
 
employees volunteer their 
 ti me and talent and the company 
 provides ﬁ nancial support to the 
 charitable organiza ti on based on 
 the number of hours worked.
• Disaster relief, in which we 
 
establish special matching 
 programs for major tragic events.
• Corporate support for charitable 
 or
ganizati ons and ins ti tuti ons in 
 FMC loca ti ons worldwide.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41Volunteering Where We Live And Work
As a leading global corpora ti on, we have a legiti  mate role 
to play in helping to address important world issues. In 
many cases, this means direct involvement, whether it’s charitable work or interacti  on with the leaders of today 
and tomorrow.
Teaching The Wonders Of Science: FMC supports the 
Science Leader 
ship Academy (SLA), a magnet high school 
in Philadelphia formed as a partnership between The Franklin Ins ti tute science museum and the School District 
of Philadelphia. FMC contributed $25,000 to underwrite Wednesdays @ The Franklin (W@TF), a mini-course curriculum for all SLA freshmen. The money also helps support mentoring, family memberships at The Franklin Insti tute, and youth sta ﬀ  counseling.
But far more valuable is FMC scien ti st parti  cipati on in 
W@TF. For three and a half hours each Wednesday over the course of either four or eight weeks, SLA students experience the wonders of science directly from FMC researchers. That’s the kind of shared experience that can leave a lifelong impression for all involved. And who knows… perhaps one day one of those students may become a valued coworker.
Nourishing A Community: Given that more than half of 
FMC
’s business is devoted to helping meet the global 
demand for food and be tt er nutriti  on, FMC’s partnership 
with Philabundance is a natural alliance. Philabundance is a local hunger-relief organiza ti on feeding approximately 
65,000 people per week in the Philadelphia and Delaware Valley region. 
Starti  ng the summer of 2011, FMC began sponsoring the 
program’s South Philadelphia Fresh for All, a farmer’s 
market-like opera ti on that provides approximately 
250 families with free, fresh produce. FMC employees volunteer at the site one Friday of each month. Employees also stepped forward to pack food boxes at Philabundance’s Hunger Relief Center and a tt end family 
volunteer nights, where employees and their children work together.FMC values its alliance with Philabundance and plans to con ti nue to 
contribute to the ﬁ ght against hunger.
Matching Time With Money:
 This 
powerful idea of combining parti  cipati on 
with monetary support extends to our charity work through the FMC Dollars for Doers program.
As an incen ti ve to devote valuable 
personal ti me to worthy causes, the 
company o ﬀ ers a contribu ti on to the 
charity where the volunteer is working 
for every hour an employee volunteers – up to $1,000 per employee per year. The program was very successful in 2011. And we doubled the compensa ti on rate 
to make an even bigger diﬀ  erence to the 
organizati ons our employees support.
FMC oﬃ   cers and sta ﬀ  volunteer at South 
Philadelphia’s “Fresh For All” food market in 
support of hunger relief. WE’VE MADE A CHOICE
42Expanding Our Philanthropy Horizon
In its ﬁ rst year, FMC’s Philanthropy Committ  ee focused 
on the coordina ti on of philanthropy e ﬀ orts in the United 
States. The commi tt ee is now working to expand its 
deﬁ ned approach to coordinate FMC’s philanthropy 
eﬀ orts globally. Independent of this coordina ti on, FMC 
has long been ac ti ve worldwide in its charitable e ﬀ orts.  
The acti  ons described below are just a few examples of 
how FMC works to make a di ﬀ erence in our communi ti es 
around the world.
Oﬀ ering Educa ti on And Opportunity: In Madagascar, 
FMC has an import
ant partnership with local farm 
families who grow and harvest seaweed, a key raw 
material for our BioPolymer business. We value this relati onship and work to support the community through 
educati on. In 2007, FMC built a school with funds 
donated by the company and employees. The Ecole Primaire la Pépinière de Nosy Ankao serves more than 50 students from ages 5 to 11. Previously, students had to learn their lessons in a grass building with no tables or chairs. There’s now a full primary school covering six grades. FMC is proud that every child coming from La Pépinière who has taken the na ti onal secondary school 
entrance exam has succeeded.
Five teachers lead the classes at Nosy Ankao, and a 
parent-teacher organiza ti on oversees the school’s 
operati on. Four of the teachers are paid by FMC’s 
supplier, and one by the government. The curriculum includes tradi ti onal subjects as well as topics such as 
sanitati on, hygiene and water safety at the beach, along 
with environmental respect and conserva ti on. Parents 
pay tuiti on costs from money they earn growing and 
harvesti ng the seaweed. 
As many of the children’s parents do not have a formal educati on and are unable to read, there are plans to 
expand the use of the school building to help them through adult educa ti on programs. We have already seen 
how the school has increased the sense of community and stability for the villages it serves. Through the adult school, we also hope to help farmers make their farms even more produc ti ve and keep their families safer, 
healthier and be tt er nourished. FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
 43Footwear For Farmers:  At FMC, we con ti nuously work 
to increase the safety and produc ti vity of our supply 
chains. For 23 years, we have trained seaweed farmers in 
Zanzibar in sustainable methods of growing seaweed that have increased their produc ti vity ﬁ vefold. Addi ti onally, 
we have provided boats that enable them to move 25 ti mes more seaweed to dry ground in a single trip than 
they could using the traditi  onal method.
Despite these advances, harves ti ng sti ll requires the 
farmers to wade through shallow water where spiny sea urchins, s ti ngrays and other dangerous marine animals 
can easily hurt an unprotected foot. To help address this concern, we created Footwear for Farmers, a campaign driven by employee dona ti ons. In 2011 FMC raised 
enough to provide more than 1,700 seaweed farmers in Madagascar and Zanzibar with protec ti ve footwear. 
Fighti 
ng A Dreaded Disease:  Communi ti es in several 
regions of Africa also face the very real threat of malaria. The World Health Organiza ti on esti mates this disease 
kills nearly 1 million children in Africa before they reach their ﬁ  ft h birthday. FMC employee dona ti ons enabled 
the purchase of more than 2,000 nets for the Zanzibar communi ti es that supply seaweed to FMC. The nets 
provided have a special coa ti ng that also helps to control 
the mosquito popula ti on, protecti  ng not only the people 
sleeping under them but also the en ti re community.
FMC coordinated the distribu ti on of the nets with the 
President’s Malaria Ini ti ati ve, a U.S.-led e ﬀ ort launched 
in 2005 with the goal of cu tti  ng malaria-related deaths 
in Sub-Saharan Africa by 50 percent. The program has already been credited with reducing the incidence of malaria in Zanzibar by 87 percent.
7 Habits Of Responsibility:
 In South America, FMC 
launched “Working with Responsibility,” an innovati  ve 
social and environmental awareness program built on our product stewardship program. In partnerships with universi ti es, technical colleges, social commi tt ees, 
opinion leaders and others, we work to ﬁ nd the 
best ways to promote the safe, responsible use of chemical products. 
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE44The result was the “7 Habits of Responsibility,” a simple 
set of easy-to-understand, easy-to-remember steps to make safety and responsibility a daily habit for anyone working with chemicals, especially farmers. The socially innovati ve aspect of this messaging is in the delivery.  
Rather than only communica ti ng the habits directly with 
the farmers, we bring the message into homes, schools and local businesses in order to create an understanding and apprecia ti on of safety prac ti ces throughout the 
broader community where our farmers live. Due to the program’s success, we are expanding it into Asia. 
FMC’s Community Outreach
FMC believes that to be a responsible member of the community it is necessary to be a good neighbor. That’s why we support community outreach and engagement in the places where we operate. These local e ﬀ orts are 
led independently by the leaders and employees at each manufacturing site, research and development facility and business o ﬃ  ce.
A few examples of our programs include:
• Community Advisory Panels
• Community work days and similar social 
 service involvement
• Plant open houses
• Interacti on with Chambers of Commerce and 
 other business organiza ti ons
• Direct discussions with government o ﬃ  cials
• Media informa ti on support
• Acti ve involvement with local emergency 
 response agencies
These programs build strong local rela ti onships with 
leaders, interested groups and the public at large. 
Through direct contact, we are able to be tt er understand 
our community’s needs and provide clear and accurate informati on about FMC and what we do.
See pages 46-47 for examples of our community outreach e ﬀ orts. Awards And Recogni ti on 
In recent years, FMC has been r
ecognized with the following 
awards in the areas of safety, social responsibility and overall work environment.
• FMC was recognized as one of the  
 
Best Companies to Work for in  
 Brazil for the seventh consecuti  ve  
 year by Exame Magazine.
• FMC was recognized as a Socially 
 
Responsible Company by the 
 Mexican Center for Philanthropy 
 (CEMEFI) for the fourth  consecu ti ve year.
• FMC Lithium India received the 
 
Department of Factories Award 
 in recogni ti on for carrying out 
 operati ons without a recordable 
 accident in 2010 – 2011.
• The Commi tt ee for Na ti onal 
 Responsible Care Indonesia 
 (KNRCI) awarded FMC the Golden  Award for practi  cing six 
 responsible care codes.
• FMC was recognized as a Top 
 
Workplace in the Philadelphia  
 region for 2010, 2011 and 2012.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45Memberships In Associa ti ons And Industry Groups
FMC belongs to a number of associa ti ons that help us 
understand the needs of customers, advance research, 
establish and maintain professional standards, learn about issues facing our industry, and advocate for members’ common interests. We belong to a large number of organiza ti ons worldwide.
The following is a sampling of our memberships:
• American Chemistry Council
• American Cleaning Ins ti tute
• Brazil-U.S. Business Council• Business Roundtable• CropLife (associa ti ons globally)
• Glass Packaging Ins ti tute
• Industrial Minerals Associa ti on – North America
• Internati onal Food Addi ti ves Council
• Nati onal Associa ti on of Manufacturers 
• Public A ﬀ airs Council
• RISE: Responsible Industry for a Sound Environment• US-China Business Council
WE’VE MADE A CHOICE46MAKING AN IMPACT NEAR AND FAR
Displayed here are a few examples of FMC’s outreach e ﬀ orts.
Green River, Wyoming:
Pumps and provides water 
free of charge to two towns nearby its opera ti onsBessemer City, North Carolina:
State-level discussions on 
r
ecycling and reuse 
opportuni ti es for several 
waste streams
Uberaba/Campinas and 
Field, Brazil:
Volunteering to help women 
with ﬁ nancial and domes ti c 
abuse problemsMiddleport, New York:
Thanksgiving plant-wide food drive for Middleport food pantry
Minera del Al ti plano, Argen ti na: 
Donati on of medical equipment to hospitals and local micro-enterprise fundingCork, Ireland:
Annually support educa ti onal 
opportuni ti es and local chari ti es
Bromborough, UK:
Sharing of safety best prac ti ces 
with local businessesFMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47Delfzjil, Netherlands:
Working with other companies and 
municipal leaders to reduce noise levels
FMC India:
Support of midday meals for approximately 200 students
Ungaran, Indonesia:
Annual “Safety Month” Emergency Response training and drills with community, medical service and police departmentsLa Zaida, Spain:
Collabora ti on with Zaragoza 
University in safety training for studentsZhangjiagang, China:
Advanced safety management training for a neighboring company
Cebu, Philippines: 
Dental mission for Looc school 
childr
en and residents with 
Danish volunteer den ti sts and 
the Rise Above Founda ti onWE’VE MADE A CHOICEREPORTABOUT THIS
48For more informa ti on about FMC or this report, please contact 
Tom Schneberger (sustainability.info@fmc.com).A BENCHMARK  
We are pleased to present our inaugural Sustainability 
Report, illustrating to our stakeholders FMC’s contributions to sustainability in the areas of growing innovation, fostering safety, minding our resources, nurturing talent and cultivating community.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49We followed the Global Repor ti ng Initi ati ve (GRI) G3.1 
Sustainability Repor ti ng Guidelines in preparing this 
report and have had it GRI-checked to an Applica ti on 
Level B. The disclosures and performance data in this 
report address FMC’s globally owned and managed faciliti es and assets for the ﬁ scal year 2011, unless 
otherwise noted, and do not address joint ventures or other business partnerships. Going forward FMC plans to report our sustainability performance objec ti ves, goals 
and progress annually. We welcome your ques ti ons, 
comments and feedback. 
Our Materiality Process
In this report, we discuss the sustainability issues we believe to be of most interest to our stakeholders that are also relevant to FMC’s long-term business objec ti ves. 
We selected report content by evalua ti ng the poten ti al 
impacts and opportuni ti es associated with current and 
emerging sustainability issues, trends and developments and our ability to in ﬂ uence these issues within the 
context of our business. We also relied on global voluntary repor ti ng and industry standards including 
the GRI G3.1.
To further re ﬁ ne the process of selecti  ng content, we 
pooled issues from a list compiled from the GRI’s general 
list of issues and CERES 21st century roadmap and grouped them into categories typical of the sustainability impacts that are germane to chemical companies, agricultural companies and mining companies. High priority issues were determined by using a ﬁ ve-test 
analysis that rated each issue based on its signi ﬁ cance 
to stakeholder groups and cumula ti ve business impact 
on FMC.
Stakeholder Engagement
FMC engages with numerous stakeholders as a regular business prac ti ce. Examples of our engagement e ﬀ orts are 
presented throughout this report. As part of the repor ti ng 
process, we received input from customers, distributors, employees, NGOs, industry associa ti ons, suppliers, 
business partners, investors, government oﬃ   cials and 
the general public. This feedback was aggregated as a part of our materiality assessment to determine the content of this report. Based on our assessment we determined the following categories to be material and have addressed each of these in this report: sustainability business strategy, safety, innova ti on in products and Relevant Sustainability Issues
Our materiality test includes ﬁ ve 
categories of impact. They are:
Financial Impacts/Risks
Issues posing a poten ti al ﬁ nancial impact 
or risk in the short-, medium- or long-term
Legal/Regulatory/Policy Drivers  
Issues being shaped by emerging or 
evolving government policy and regula ti on
Peer-Based Norms  
Issues our industry peers tend to report on 
and recognize as important business drivers
Stakeholder Concerns 
and Societal Trends 
Issues of high importance to stakeholders, 
including communi ti es, NGOs and 
the general public, and/or issues that 
reﬂ ect social and consumer trends 
Areas of poten ti al for innova ti ve soluti ons 
to bene ﬁ t the environment, customers and 
other stakeholders; demonstrate sector 
leadership; and create compe ti ti ve advantageOpportunity For Innova ti on services, green chemistry and products, serving emerging markets, ﬁ nancial 
performance, environmental impacts and resource e ﬃ  ciency, product safety, talent 
management, labor rela ti ons and community 
relati ons. 
FMC is in the process of reviewing our existi ng stakeholder engagement e ﬀ orts to 
identi fy improved methods for dialogue.WE’VE MADE A CHOICE50Standard Disclosures  Page or Informa ti on Link
1. Strategy and Analysis
1.1 CE O's statement 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 2-3
1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportuni ti es 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 4-5; 
2011 Annual Report pp. 13-14
2. Organiza ti onal Proﬁ le
2.1 Name of the or ganizati on. FMC Corpora ti on
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 1, 3; 
2011 Annual Report pp. 13-14
2.3 Opera ti onal structure of the organiza ti on. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 1, 3; 
2011 Annual Report pp. 1-10
2.4 Locati on of organiza ti on’s headquarters Philadelphia PA, USA
2.5 Number of countries where the organiza ti on operates, and 
names of countries with either major opera ti ons or that are 
speciﬁ  cally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the 
report.2011 Sustainability Report pp. 1, 3; 
2011 Annual Report pp. 1-10
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2011 Annual Report p. 1
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/bene ﬁ ciaries).2011 Sustainability Report pp. 1, 3; 2011 Annual Report pp. 1-10
2.8 Scale of the repor ti ng organiza ti on. 2011 Annual Report  pp. 1-10
2.9 Signi ﬁ cant changes during the repor ti ng period. 2011 Annual Report pp. 1-10
2.10 Awards received in the repor ti ng period. 2011 Sustainability Report p. 44
3. Report Parameters
3.1–3.3 R
eporti  ng parameters. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.4 Contact point. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.5 Process for de ﬁ ning report content. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.6 Boundary of the report. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.7 Limita ti ons on the scope or boundary of the report. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.8 Basis for repor ti ng on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 
faciliti es, outsourced opera ti ons, and other en ti ti es that can 
signiﬁ cantly aﬀ ect comparability from period to period and/or 
between organiza ti ons.2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 
calculati ons.2011 Sustainability Report pp. 48-49
3.12 Standard report disclosures. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 50-53
3.13 External assurance policy and  prac ti ce. We are not seeking external assurance of our 
Sustainability Report at this ti me, but plan to do so 
in the future.
4. Governance, Commitments, And Engagement
4.1 Gov ernance structure of the organiza ti on. FMC .com: Commi tt ee Composi ti on (htt p://phx.
corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-
govcommcomp)
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an execu ti ve oﬃ  cer.FMC.com: Leadership Team (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-govmanage)
4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-execu ti ve members.Board of Directors: h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.
zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-govboard
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommenda ti ons or direc ti on to the highest governance body.2012 Proxy Materials (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-irhome); FMC.com: Shareholder Services (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=proxy)GRI INDEXStandard Disclosures Page or Informa ti on Link
4.5 Linkage between compensa ti on for members of the highest 
governance body, senior managers, and execu ti ves and the 
organizati on’s performance.2012 Proxy Materials (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-irhome)
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 
ensure con ﬂ icts of interest are avoided.2012 Proxy Materials (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-irhome)
4.7 Process for determining the composi ti on, quali ﬁ cati ons, and 
experti se of the members of the highest governance body and 
its commi tt ees.2012 Proxy Materials (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-irhome)
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementa ti on.FMC Code of Ethics and Business Conduct ( h tt p://
phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-irhome)
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organiza ti on’s iden ti ﬁ cati on and management of economic, 
environmental, and social performance.Charter of the Audit Commi tt ee of the Board 
Directors (h tt p://media.corporate-ir.net/media_ ﬁ les/
irol/11/117919/pdf/AuditCommi tt eeCharter-1030904.
pdf); 2012 Proxy Materials
4.10 Processes for evalua ti ng the highest governance body’s 
own performance, par ti cularly with respect to economic, 
environmental, and social performance.2012 Proxy Materials (h tt p://phx.corporate-ir.net/
phoenix.zhtml?c=117919&p=irol-irhome)
4.11 Explana ti on of whether and how the precau ti onary 
approach or principle is addressed by the organiza ti on.2011 Sustainability Report p. 5
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and 
social charters, principles, or other ini ti ati 
 ves to which the 
organizati on subscribes or endorses.American Chemistry Council Responsible Care Management System; Mul ti ple ISO certi  ﬁ cati ons at 
manufacturing loca ti ons globally
4.13 Memberships in associa ti ons (such as industry 
associati ons) and/or na ti onal/interna ti onal advocacy 
organizati ons.2011 Sustainability Report p. 45
4.14–4.17  Stakeholder engagement 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 2-3,  48-49
Our stakeholder engagement ac ti viti es vary in 
frequency, and range from customer surveys (pp. 12-13) to mul ti -stakeholder panels (p. 35).  See pages 12, 
13, 26, 31, 32-26, and 44-54 for more examples.
Management Approach And Performance Indicators
Economic Disclosure on Management Approach  (2011 Sus
 tainability Report p. 4; 2011 Annual Report)
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 4-5, 40; 
2011 Annual Report p. 38
EC2 Financial implica ti ons and other risks and opportuni ti es for 
the organiza ti on’s acti  viti es due to climate change.2011 Sustainability Report pp. 4-5, 16; 
2011 Annual Report p. 32
Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach (2011 Sustainability Report pp. 14-15)
EN3 Direct energy consump ti on by primary energy source. 2011 Sustainability Report p. 14
EN4 Indirect energy consump ti on by primary source. 2011 Sustainability Report p. 14
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 2011 Sustainability Report p. 14
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 
by weight.2011 Sustainability Report p. 14
EN20  NOx, SOx, and other signi ﬁ cant air emissions by type 
and weight.2011 Sustainability Report p. 14
EN22  Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 2011 Sustainability Report p. 14
EN23  Total number and volume of signi ﬁ cant spills. 2011 Sustainability Report p. 24
EN26  Initi ati ves to miti  gate environmental impacts of products 
and services, and extent of impact mi ti gati on.2011 Sustainability Report pp. 9-13Standard Disclosures Page or Informa ti on Link
Labor Practi  ces Disclosure on Management Approach (2011 Sustainability Report pp. 31-32, 34)
LA1 Total workforce by region and employment type 2011 Sustainability Report p. 1
LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and 
employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.2011 Sustainability Report p. 35
LA3 Bene ﬁ ts provided to full- ti me employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part- ti me employees, by 
major opera ti ons.FMC.com: Careers (h tt p://www.fmc.com/careers/
Bene ﬁ ts.aspx)
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collec ti ve 
bargaining agreements.Approximately one-third of our workforce is covered by collec ti ve bargaining agreements, 
around the world. Since 2001, all of our contracts have been successfully renegoti  ated without work 
stoppages (2011 Annual Report p. 12)
LA7 Rates of injury, lost days, and work-related fatali ti es 2011 Sustainability Report p. 24
LA11  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 
support the con ti nued employability of employees and assist 
them in managing career endings2011 Sustainability Report p. 34
LA13  Composi ti on of governance bodies and breakdown of 
employees by indicators of diversity2011 Sustainability Report p. 35
Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach (2011 Sustainability Report pp. 36-37)
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights.2011 Sustainability Report pp. 36-37; Over 3500 hours has been spent on this training (further described in text)
Social Disclosure on Management Approach (2011 Sustainability Report pp. 36-37, 39-40)
SO1 Percentage of opera ti ons with implemented local 
community engagement, impact assessments, and development programsWe work to engage the local community at all of our sites around the world; see 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 39-47 for examples.
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corrup ti on.Under FMC’s rigorous an ti -corrupti on risk 
assessment program, one hundred percent of FMC business units are analyzed for risk related to corrupti on.
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organiza ti on’s anti -
corrupti on policies and procedures.All FMC employees located throughout the world receive basic training for legal compliance and 
ethical behavior, including an ti -c
 orrupti on training. 
Those management and non-management employees who are in commercial posi ti ons and 
those who have contact with government o ﬃ  cials 
receive additi  onal, more focused an ti -corrupti on 
training.
Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach (2011 Sustainability Report pp. 27-29)
PR1 Assessment of health and safety 2011 Sustainability Report pp. 27-29
PR5 Practi ces related to customer sa ti sfacti on, including results 
of surveys measuring customer sa ti sfacti on.2011 Sustainability Report p. 9
The following indicators are partially reported: EC1, LA1 and LA2. 
All other indicators are fully reported.FMC 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53
This report was printed on 100% recycled paper using soy-based inks. 
Compared to using 100% virgin fiber, this publication saved 131 trees 
(the area of nine tennis courts); 482,282 liters of water (1,278 days 
of water consumption); 7,305 kg of waste (149 waste containers); 
18,989 kg of CO 2 (emissions of six cars in one year); 214 GJ (energy 
consumption of two households in one year); and 56 kg NO X (emissions 
of one truck over 174 days).
54 WE’VE MADE A CHOICEOFFICERSFMC BOARD &FMC OFFICERS
Pierre Brondeau 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board W. Kim Foster Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
Mark A. Douglas 
President, Industrial Chemicals Group 
Milton Steele 
President, Agricultural Products Group
D. Michael Wilson 
President, Specialty Chemicals Group  
Kenneth R. Garrett 
Executive Vice President, Human Resources
Andrea E. Utecht 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 
Barry J. Crawford 
Vice President, Operations 
Thomas C. Deas, Jr.
Vice President and Treasurer
Kenneth A. Gedaka 
Vice President, Corporate Communications 
David A. Kotch 
Vice President, Chief Information Officer  
Gerald R. Prout 
Vice President, Government Affairs  Andrew D. Sandifer Vice President, Corporate Planning and Development 
Karen Totland 
Vice President, Procurement
Victoria V. Walton 
Vice President, Tax
Graham R. Wood 
Vice President and ControllerFMC BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pierre BrondeauPresident, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerCabot Corporation
Peter D’ Aloia
Managing Director and Member of the Board of DirectorsAscend Performance Materials Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer
PrincipalGreer and Associates
Dirk A. Kempthorne
President and Chief Executive OfficerAmerican Council of Life Insurers
Edward J. Mooney
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerNalco Chemical Company
Paul J. Norris
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerW. R. Grace & Co.
Robert C. Pallash
President, Global Customer Group and Senior Vice PresidentVisteon Corporation
William H. Powell
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerNational Starch and Chemical Company
Enrique J. Sosa
Former PresidentBP Amoco Chemicals
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. 
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentDresser-Rand Group, Inc.
FMC, Avicel, Boral, Furadan, Klozur, PerNOxide, SLMP and The Right Chemistry are trademarks of FMC Corpora ti on or its subsidiaries.  
EnProve is a trademark of Natron x Technologies, LLC. Regalia is a trademark of Marrone Bio Innova ti ons, Inc. Responsible Care is a 
registered service mark of the American Chemistry Council, Inc.FMC CORPORATION
1735 Market StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19103USA
Visit 
FMC.com/sustainability 
for more information.
Copyright © 2012, FMC Corpora ti on. All rights reserved.
This publication was printed on 100% recycled paper using soy-based inks.