FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf
2016 Sustainability ReportPROGRESSFORBUILTFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
   
 /two.tf
Q: What do you think are FMC’s most important sustainability achievements  
of the last 2-3 years?
A: We have made meaningful progress on our sustainability goals over the past few 
years and continue to deepen our commitment to sustainability. In 2016, FMC was 
awarded an A- by the CDP Climate Change Program as a /uniFB01rst-time participant. The ranking recognizes FMC as a leader in addressing climate change. In addition, we published 2020 and 2025 sustainability goals. I am proud to say that in our second “Communication on Progress” for the United Nations Global Compact, we demonstrated progress on several targets, including signi/uniFB01cant reduction in our safety total recordable incident rate, increased R&D spending to develop more sustainably advantaged products, and reductions in our environmental metrics.
Q: What’s next on FMC’s sustainability journey?
A: With our past experience and accomplishments, we are truly built for progress. 
Now is the time to accelerate that progress toward our 2020 and 2025 sustainability goals. For example, we will grow our plant health platform, which includes biologicals, micronutrients and seed treatment applications that provide growers with more sustainable options. We will continue to address the environmental impact of our products as well as oﬀer robust stewardship programs to ensure the proper and safe use of FMC products. 
Q: How have you incorporated stakeholder concerns into your  
sustainability journey? 
A: We actively engage with our stakeholders to understand their issues and 
concerns, and we work closely with them to balance business interests with those of society. Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment that includes input from employees and external stakeholders such as investors, customers, suppliers and NGOs. This assessment identi/uniFB01es sustainability issues that have the greatest impact on our business and our stakeholders. 
Q: What is FMC’s approach to ensuring a responsible supply chain from 
sourcing materials through product end use?
A: Collaboration and strong partnerships with suppliers and customers are very 
important to ensure we meet our sustainability commitments, from sourcing, to manufacturing, to transportation and product stewardship. We choose to work only with suppliers and vendors who share our commitment to ethical and sustainable business practices. But it doesn’t end there. We have begun the process of measuring and monitoring our logistics and transportation footprints. From optimizing logistics to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the sustainability of our packaging, we are committed to a responsible supply chain that re/uniFB02ects our sustainability priorities.
Q: What advantages does the acquisition of DuPont’s Crop Protection 
products provide to FMC’s sustainability program?
A: We have a long history of meeting some of the world’s major global 
challenges. For more than 10 decades, we have helped farmers feed a growing world population by protecting their crops from destructive pests and invasive weeds. The acquisition of a signi/uniFB01cant part of DuPont’s Crop Protection business will ensure we can help meet the nutritional needs of people around the world. We are excited to welcome the talented DuPont employees to the FMC family. Combining DuPont’s exceptional products and R&D capabilities with our product portfolio, pipeline and formulation expertise will bring innovative solutions to growers while reducing our impact on the planet.  
 It is important to note that the Health and Nutrition team has made great strides in sustainability, including energy and waste reduction, and I know they will bring strong expertise to DuPont’s program.
Pierre BrondeauPresident, CEO and Chairman of the BoardOUR CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER Q + A WITH
PIERRE BRONDEAUFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf
For more information about FMC sustainability, please contact Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, at  sustainability.info@fmc.com. Assurance Statement ................................. /three.tf/four.tf
Executive Oﬃcers ........................................ /three.tf/five.tf• Welcome Guide and Major Global Challenges......................................................................... 2
• A New Vision for FMC and Organizational Pro/uniFB01le .................................................................. 3
• Historic Milestones ......................................................................................................................... 4
• Update on Our Formula for Progress ........................................................................................ 6
• 2016 Progress Report and 2017 Commitments ......................................................................... 7
• Materiality Assessment and UN Sustainable Development Goals .................................... 8
• Stakeholder Engagement and the UN Global Compact ...................................................... 9TABLE OF CONTENTS
• Innovation to  
Meet Global Challenges ........................ 19
• Agricultural Solutions ........................... 20
• Lithium ......................................................22
• Health and Nutrition .............................24OUR PRODUCTS  ......................../one.tf/eight.tfOUR PEOPLE  ............................... /one.tf/zero.tf
• Dedication to Safety by All ................... 11
• Safety Across the Value Chain ..............12
• Talented Employees  
Building FMC’s Future Every Day .........13• Dedicated to Understanding  
Our Environmental Impact .................. 27
• Logistics Networks  
for the Future ...........................................28
• Progressing  
Community Development ....................29
• 2016 Environmental Results ................. 32OUR RESPONSIBILITY ................ /two.tf/six.tfOUR /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The report complements more 
detailed information on the sustainability website at  
www.FMCsustainability.com, which includes the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index. Together, this report and the web-based content ful/uniFB01ll the requirements of GRI Standards.  
EXPLORE  
WWW.FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM
We invite you to explore our website for more stories and data that highlight how we are built for progress through our commitment to sustainability. The Online Data Center allows you to visualize and interact with our data to better understand FMC’s impacts. You may also explore our resources to access a wealth of image and video content that will enhance your understanding of our sustainability work. We invite you to read our key statements and policies regarding our positions across several topics, including: 
• Climate Change Statement
• Human Rights Policy• Animal Welfare Policy• Con/uniFB02ict Minerals Policy• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct• Board of Directors 
Sustainability CommitteeTHIS  
REPORT ABOUT
The 2016 FMC Corporation Sustainability 
Report is “In Accordance” with the GRI Standards - Core option.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf
FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   2The theme for this year’s Sustainability Report, 
Built for Progress , continues our momentum 
from last year’s milestone report, Our Formula 
for Progress . Sustainability is an enduring, 
fundamental part of FMC’s structure, built into 
who we are as a company. We develop products for our modern, solution-oriented, global customers and an increasingly aware public.  
With a business-focused approach to sustainability, FMC is built to succeed, advance and grow.  We make constant incremental progress to become a more sustainable enterprise that delivers enduring value to our customers. Developing innovative solutions, maintaining a dynamic workforce and addressing some of the world’s most pressing challenges are the keys to making real progress. 
Built for Progress  
is comprised of three key pillars which were introduced in last year’s report:Our People , including safety, diversity and 
employee programs 
Our Products , including innovation, new 
product introductions and sustainable supply chain practices 
Our Responsibility , including 
environmental footprint and community engagement
MAJOR GLOBAL CHALLENGESWELCOME GUIDE
Throughout this report and on our sustainability website (www.FMCsustainability.com) you will learn how FMC is helping to alleviate /uniFB01ve of the world’s major challenges. These Global Challenges have framed our work since we formalized sustainability at FMC in 2011. We understand the role we must play to help balance the resources of our world with the fast-growing population. As a highly focused specialty chemical company, our products, technologies and services are key to mitigating these challenges.FOOD + HEALTH EXPECTATIONS
Food and crop production must increase to meet the basic needs and desires of a rapidly growing and socio-economically diverse population seeking a wider array of nutritional options.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS
Growing interest in natural and benign materials is fueling the need for new, improved, bio-based products that reduce impact on the environment.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is considered a necessary step in mitigating climate-warming trends.SCARCE RESOURCES
To cope with limited availability of  
fresh water, energy, forests and other essential resources, we must carefully manage them and more widely use renewable alternatives.
LAND COMPETITION
Urbanization to accommodate a growing population and poor land management techniques are limiting the amount of arable areas available for agriculture, which intensi/uniFB01es the need  
to increase farmland productivity and crop yields. 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
AND FMC VISIONFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf
 FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILEA NEW VISION FOR FMC
FMC’s vision for the next two to three years is to 
be a leading, innovative provider of technologies that help feed and power a growing population. Our employees continue to adhere to the guiding principles outlined below to achieve our vision:
• Be Safe, Ethical, and Sustainable Stewards 
• Drive Innovation in Technology • Recruit and Develop an Exceptional and  
Diverse Workforce 
• Be More Agile and Eﬃcient 
• Maintain a Global Reach with a Local Focus
FMC employees, working according to these principles, deliver solutions that help mitigate some of the world’s most pressing global challenges.
REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION
/parenleft.capIN MILLIONS/parenright.cap = $/three.tf,/two.tf/eight.tf/two.tf./four.tf
$/seven.tf/four.tf/three.tf./five.tf 
MILLION
2016 Revenue23%
FMC Total$/two.tf./three.tf 
BILLION
2016 Revenue69%FMC Total
Insecticides, herbicides, 
fungicides, plant healthFMC AGRICULTURAL 
SOLUTIONS
FMC HEALTH  AND NUTRITION
Microcrystalline cellulose, 
carrageenan, alginates, natural colorants
FMC LITHIUM
Lithium hydroxide, butyllithium, lithium carbonate
Latin America
$/eight.tf/two.tf/one.tf./four.tfEurope, 
Middle East
+ Africa
$/seven.tf/eight.tf/three.tf./four.tf
Asia Paci/uniFB01c
$/seven.tf/nine.tf/eight.tf./five.tfNorth 
America
$/eight.tf/seven.tf/nine.tf./one.tf24%
27%24%25%FMC REPORTING AND 
CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES
The 2016 data in this report 
include all sites under FMC’s operational control, as well as sites acquired from Cheminova in 2015 and environmental data supplied by active ingredient contract manufacturing companies (except where noted). The prior year data have all been re-stated to provide consistency.  $/two.tf/six.tf/four.tf./one.tf 
MILLION
2016 Revenue8%
FMC Total
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /four.tf
HISTORIC 
MILESTONESWE LOOK BACK  
AS OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
JOURNEY CONTINUES
2010• FMC leadership establishes the 
“Chairman’s Council for Sustainability, ” 
comprised of key leaders, to determine the strategic direction of the /uniFB01rst formal sustainability program
2013
• Water Risk Assessment conducted, using World Resources Institute Aqueduct tool, to establish areas of focus for water reduction
• Animal Welfare Policy developed
• Supply chain sustainability eﬀorts take hold. All signi/uniFB01cant raw materials suppliers are screened  
against the Supplier Code of Conduct
2014
2015• A “call to action” 
published in the 2014 Report, research and development dedicated to sustainable products or projects hits 74 percent
• Waste assessment 
conducted for all manufacturing sites to understand FMC’s waste footprint
• Women’s Initiative Network, an employee aﬃnity group, 
launched to connect, develop and advance women at FMC
• Social Responsibility Audit program continually assesses 
manufacturing sites on labor and human rights compliance
• Reduce our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  
to < 0.30 by 2020
• Dedicate 80 percent of our R&D budget to develop sustainably advantaged products by 2020
• Achieve 100 on our Community Engagement Index by 2020• Reduce our environmental impact by  
reducing energy, GHG and waste intensities  
by 15 percent by 2025
• Reduce water intensity in high risk areas by  
20 percent by 2025
OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS GOALS FOR /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf AND /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf PUBLISHED, INCLUDING: FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /five.tf
2011
• The /uniFB01rst Sustainability Report, “We’ve Made a Choice,” is published
• To focus eﬀorts on mega trends that aﬀect the global population, the /uniFB01ve “market-shaping shifts” are 
identi/uniFB01ed - these still guide FMC today, and are now known as the Major Global Challenges
• The Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors is established, ensuring accountability for sustainability at the highest level of the organization
• Product Stewardship and Sustainability Assessments developed to measure and accelerate sustainability in research and development
• Established annual materiality assessment process to determine issues of highest importance
• As part of Vision 2015, three targets are established:  
1. < 0.37 Total Recordable Incident Rate  
2. >  50% of total R&D spending dedicated to impact  
major global challenges
3. > 90 (out of 100) Community Engagement Index
• Energy Management Center of Excellence formed to implement best energy practices, including conducting regular energy assessments at manufacturing sites• Supplier Code of Conduct implemented, including human rights, labor, environmental, health and  
safety requirements
• Sustainable packaging products launched, including 
a Green Family of containers in Brazil derived  
from sugarcane
2012
2016
• FMC reports to CDP Climate Change disclosure for the /uniFB01rst time, receives an A-
• Climate Change Statement published
• Human Rights Policy published
• Best safety record in FMC history achieved, a 0.22 total recordable incident rate
• Select environmental and safety data are assured, see page 34• FMC divests the Alkali Chemicals division and  
/uniFB01nalizes the purchase of Cheminova AG, a  
Danish agrochemical manufacturer
• FMC signs the United Nations Global Compact  
and reports its /uniFB01rst Communication on Progress
• Select environmental data are assured 
• Diversity and Inclusion program formalized; Diversity Oﬃcer appointedFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /six.tf
In 2015 FMC established goals that will ensure 
we are a more sustainable enterprise by 2025. These goals encompass safety, environmental and product development aspects and are important drivers to becoming tomorrow’s FMC. We will deliver safe products that bene/uniFB01t our employees, our society and our impact on the Earth. 
UPDATE ON OUR FORMULA
FOR PROGRESS
GOAL BY /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf...
Achieve a Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 0.30 or lower by 2020. We are proud to report our injury rate in 2016 was 0.22, the lowest full-year injury rate since the company began tracking TRIR.
GOAL BY /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf...
Dedicate 80 percent of our R&D budget to develop sustainably advantaged products by 2020. A sustainably advantaged product is one that positively impacts one of the Major Global Challenges.
R&D/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf GOAL
/parenleft.cap/eight.tf/zero.tf%/parenright.cap
2014 2015 201667%76% 74%
/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf GOAL
/parenleft.cap./three.tf/zero.tf/parenright.cap
2013.41
2014.51
2015.51
2016.22TRIR
2012.63Achieve 100 on the Community Engagement Index, which measures interaction with  
our communities.GOAL BY /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf...
GOALS BY 2025...
COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT87%91%96%/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf GOAL /parenleft.cap/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf%/parenright.cap
2014 2015 2016WHAT DOES A FUTURE WORLD  
WITH FMC LOOK LIKE?
We will impact /uniFB01ve global challenges: climate change, environmental consciousness, food and health expectations, land competition and scarce resources, and ensure that by 2025, FMC will have a decreased environmental footprint and an exciting pipeline of more sustainably advantaged products. 
OUR PRODUCTS OUR RESPONSIBILITY
+
 +
 =CONTINUED PROGRESSOUR PEOPLE
FMC reports detailed data on the environmental footprint of each business. For information on energy, GHG, waste and water, see pages 32-33.  
/one.tf/five.tf%INTENSITY
/two.tf/zero.tf%WATER USE
in high  
risk areas•  Energy
•  GHG•  WasteFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /seven.tf FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7
/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/seven.tf  
COMMITMENTS
Publish a climate change statement
Have key environmental data in our 2015 Sustainability  
Report (SR) assuredAdhere to the GRI G4 guidelines in the 2015 SRPublish sustainability metrics and goals for 2020 and 2025Publish Communication on Progress for the UN Global CompactReport to the Carbon Disclosure ProjectInvestigate sustainability data systems; make 
recommendations for 2017
Reinvigorate the Sustainability Implementation TeamsImplement a social responsibility audit process for  
FMC suppliersExpand human rights elements of Code of Conduct into a 
stand-alone Human Rights Policy 
Improve sustainability in operations through energy audits (2), 
waste assessments (2) and social responsibility audits (5)
Implement best sustainability practices at  
Philadelphia headquartersComplete sustainability training for Lithium and Agricultural 
Solutions commercial teams
/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf PROGRESS  
REPORTON OUR /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf
COMMITMENTS
Completed Partial Not Complete
Improve sustainability in operations through waste assessments (2),  
social responsibility audits (3) and Department of Energy energy audits (2)
Make measurable progress on our Innovation, Business Practices  
and Environmental goals
Implement an External Sustainability Council
Expand our employee engagement program
Continue measuring our global logistics footprint
Report to CDP Climate Change module, assess potential  
to report to CDP Supply Chain and Water modules
Develop and roll out the sustainability communications plan 
Implement best sustainability practices at Philadephia headquarters
Complete sustainability training for Lithium and Agricultural Solutions
 commercial teams
Have key environmental and safety data in our  
2016 Sustainability Report assured
Adhere to the GRI Standards in the 2016 Sustainability Report
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /eight.tf
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
   
 /eight.tf
FMC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT8FMC conducts an annual materiality assessment to identify issues that have 
the greatest impacts to our business from economic, environmental and social standpoints. It is a rigorous process that includes both internal and external stakeholder input. Each year we seek to improve our assessment. For example, in 2016 we included investors in the process. Through a series of interviews and meetings, as well as a formal survey, we qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed a list of 62 potential material issues. The detailed process is outlined on our website.
The issues determined to be the most material to FMC are in the table to the right.
CATEGORY
Marketplace
 
Operations
 
Workplace
 
Environment
 
CommunityMATERIAL ISSUE
Product environmental impacts Product safety and eﬀects on humanity
Health and safety 
Resource eﬃciency
Human rights 
Recruitment and retention
Product stewardship 
Climate change, energy use, water use and waste
Global food supply 
Community relationsMATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT
Adopted in 2015, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
include 17 goals and 169 targets which seek to promote sustainable development in the areas of People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace and Partnership. The SDGs incorporate aspects of the UN Global Compact, to which FMC is a signatory. The goals are a roadmap intended to establish a common purpose for governments, private enterprises, non-governmental organizations and academia. 
In order to ensure FMC’s sustainability efforts are aligned with this 
international consensus on sustainable development, we conducted an assessment in 2016 to map our material issues to the SDGs. The results of this assessment showed that all of the material issues we have identi/uniFB01ed are also part of the UN SDGs. We are proud of this alignment and it demonstrates that FMC’s areas of focus are not only in the best interest of the company but are also supported by a global framework for positive change. 
ALIGNMENT FOR
GLOBAL CHANGEUNDERSTANDING THE UNITED NATIONS 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSWHAT ISSUES ARE MOST IMPORTANT?FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /nine.tf
STAKEHOLDER GROUP
Employees
Prospective 
Employees
CustomersSuppliers
Investors
Local 
Communities
Regulators and 
public policy makers
Non-government 
organizations
Industry 
associationsCHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT
 
Town Hall meetings
Reports, email blasts, videosSurveysTraining Social media
Sustainability report
Annual reportSocial media
Meetings
Innovation collaborationIndustry partnerships
Supplier audits
Supplier surveysCode of Conduct
Donations to local organizations
Employee volunteersCommunity Advisory Panels
Leading/participating on committees  
and working groups
AdvocacyMeetings
Risk assessments and studiesRatings/rankings and indices
Conference callsSurveysInvestor Day
In-person meetings/conference calls
Project collaborationsSurvey responsesDeveloping policies and best practicesAnnuallyAnnually Weekly
Ongoing
QuarterlyQuarterly
Biannually
QuarterlyMonthly
Quarterly
MonthlyQuarterly
Bi-monthly
As neededMonthly
RegularlyAnnually
QuarterlyAnnuallyBiannually
Quarterly
Bi-annuallyAnnuallyAs neededFREQUENCY
 
Quarterly
MonthlyAnnuallyAnnuallyWeeklyStakeholder engagement is a key element in determining issues that are most material to FMC. Engagement helps us identify important trends we need to address in sustainability reporting. We engage a myriad of stakeholders through open and transparent dialogue on a regular basis. Taking their feedback into account is vital as we grow into a leading and innovative provider of technologies that help feed a growing population and power a cleaner, mobile world. The major issues facing our industry are complex and collaboration is therefore essential. The table to the right indicates the main stakeholder groups we engage and how we engage with them.
STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENTWHO DO WE  
WORK WITH?
FMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2015 and  this report is our second Communication on Progress. Support of the UNGC demonstrates FMC’s commitment to make globalization more socially and ecologically compatible and to raise standards in human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. A complete table of FMC’s activities and management systems that support the 10 principles of the Global Compact can be found at FMCsustainability.com. 
WE SUPPORTCOMMUNICATION 
ON PROGRESSUNITED NATIONS 
GLOBAL COMPACTFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/zero.tf
PEOPLEOUROur people are FMC’s most valuable resource and 
are essential to the company’s long-term success. We empower them to put safety /uniFB01rst and to build an inclusive workplace. The combination of their innovative mindset and dedication is instrumental in achieving our sustainability goals. FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/one.tfDEDICATION TO SAFETY BY ALL
Safety of our employees is a core belief at FMC. 
From executive leadership to plant /uniFB02oor operators, employees are empowered to make decisions that always put safety /uniFB01rst. Our safety culture permeates all areas of business and all employees are responsible for keeping themselves and others safe. In 2015 we set a goal to achieve a Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 0.30 or lower by 2020, which we believe would put FMC in the top quartile of chemical companies. We are proud to report our injury rate in 2016 was 0.22, less than half of the previous two years and the lowest full-year injury rate since the company began tracking TRIR. At the end of 2016, FMC achieved an injury-free fourth quarter, a perfect capstone to a year of safety milestones. 
This achievement is a testament to employees’ 
unyielding commitment to look out for one another each and every day. However, we will not be satis/uniFB01ed until we reach our ultimate target of zero injuries.  SAFETY…
IN MANUFACTURING
Accomplishing a 0.22 TRIR required employee diligence as well as eﬀective systems and processes. For the second year in a row, FMC was recognized with the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care® “Initiative of the Year” award. In 2015, we received the award for FMC’s TH!NK.SAFE.™ awareness program, and in 2016 we were honored to receive the award for our Process Hazard Level (PHL) Screening Tool.  This tool is the starting point for implementing the internal Process Safety Management Standard. It provides a method for sorting operational processes based on the hazards of materials, chemistry and operating conditions. 
We believe the four areas that drove 
improvement are: 
Leadership | Strong leadership at the plants and in management sets the example of safety before all else. They quickly enacted eﬀective changes for a safer environment when areas of improvement were identi/uniFB01ed. 
Accountability | Employees at all levels 
were accountable and responsible for safety and had the ability to stop work at any time for a safety concern.Focus | Each business focused on what could be eﬀectively improved to eliminate incidents, such as hand safety, manual handling, hazard recognition  and housekeeping.
Learning | Employees improved their safety mindset every day through training, sharing experiences across business units  and consistently improving systems.
1
2
3
4
in 2016TRIR Results
0.22/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf
GOAL
/parenleft.cap./three.tf/zero.tf/parenright.cap
2013.41
2014.51
2015.51
2016.22TRIR
2012.63
“We’re honored by ACC’s recognition of our new 
PHL screening tool. This unique way of managing 
process safety risks aligns with ACC’s recent updates 
to the Responsible Care Process Safety Code of 
Management Practices and is already having a 
positive impact at FMC. The PHL tool is scalable, 
making it easy to share and have an impact on the 
larger chemical manufacturing community. ”
                  BARRY CRAWFORD, VICE PRESIDENT, OPERATIONSFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/two.tfSAFETY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN
Each business took speci/uniFB01c actions to improve 
safety in 2016:
AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
• Implemented Life Critical Standards at all 
newly acquired sites 
• Launched a new eye safety initiative requiring 
employees to wear goggles for eye protection instead of glasses based on hazards at the sites
LITHIUM
• Implemented ergonomic best practices for drum and cylinder handling at butyllithium sites
• Introduced “knowledge checks” to ensure 
good housekeeping, risk awareness, personal protection equipment use and other daily safety skills at the production site in Argentina   
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
• Shared best practices and incident lessons 
across manufacturing sites 
• Advanced engineering standards to improve 
process safety
Under the theme of “The Year of the Supervisor,” Health and Nutrition and Lithium team members focused intently on training leaders in new  
safety skills and providing tools for promoting safety culture.
Our commitment to protecting employees extends 
beyond manufacturing to the company’s oﬃces, R&D sites and all areas at home, at work and on the road.IN THE OFFICE
As part of this commitment, Health and Nutrition established a Remote and Administrative Site Safety Program in 2015 to understand and encourage safety among the non-manufacturing workforce. In 2016, focused safety topics for the program varied from driving and transportation to customer visits and laboratory safety. 
ON THE ROAD
All employees in the U.S. who drive a company vehicle are required to take online training. In 2016, we launched a dynamic driving training course for those who drive a /uniFB02eet vehicle more than 1,200 miles per year. These employees were required to participate in Driver Safety Training which included 
FMC REMAINS COMMITTED TO PROPER, EFFECTIVE AND CONSISTENT 
USE OF REQUIRED PERSONAL PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AT ALL OF OUR GLOBAL MANUFACTURING AND RESEARCH SITES.
CONSTANT AND  
VISIBLE SAFETY MESSAGING
Awareness is a key to maintaining 
consistently strong safety results at FMC. Consistent, transparent communications help ensure every employee goes home at the end of the day as healthy as he or she  arrived at work. Some examples include:
• Daily email safety message to all  
Health and Nutrition employees from the Director of Operations
• Weekly email safety message to all 
Agricultural Solutions employees from the Manufacturing Excellence Manager
• Daily safety lessons communicated 
on highly visible lobby screens at FMC Tower in Philadelphia
• Weekly EHS newsletter from the  
Vice President, Operations detailing safety results and lessons learned  from global operations
• Consistent safety messages to all 
Lithium employees, including daily safety messages at the Bessemer City, North Carolina, manufacturing site
The goal of these communications is to remind employees that every day is a new day to TH!NK.SAFE., and everyone, regardless of position or experience, is  able to make a diﬀerence in safety. 
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/three.tfclassroom sessions and opportunities to practice 
new skills behind the wheel. The training was not simply a “rules of the road” review. It taught drivers techniques to enhance their safety, including the use of a “slide car” that simulates hazardous scenarios such as loss of traction, hydroplaning and sliding. This training helps develop new competencies for drivers to manage real world conditions as safely as possible. 
IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
FMC Agricultural Solutions partners with contract manufacturers to produce key active ingredients. To extend the safety culture beyond our own doors, we work closely with the contract manufacturers to implement FMC standards of environmental health and safety. 
Our safety journey is never complete, and FMC 
employees are accountable in all areas of our 
work. We are committed to constantly learning, 
challenging and promoting safe work practices 
while we strive for the ultimate goal of zero injuries.     TALENTED EMPLOYEES BUILDING 
FMC’S FUTURE EVERY DAY 
When FMC employees are safe, they can excel. It 
is FMC’s responsibility to provide a platform for all employees to learn, grow and contribute their best to the company’s success. 
DIVERSITY: THE KEY TO FMC’S FUTURE
Creating and celebrating a diverse workforce is key to FMC’s future growth and success. This is the mission of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) at FMC. FMC will continue to grow and succeed if our employees provide insights and knowledge from diverse points of view. Our D&I vision is to deliver exceptional results through a vibrant, diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace. 
To encourage progress on diversity, members 
of FMC’s Leadership Committee have annual goals related to D&I. With strong support from leadership, D&I eﬀorts in 2016 focused on building employees’ understanding and awareness of diversity and inclusion through special events, activities and communications. 
2016 Highlights
• Implemented a governance structure, led 
by an executive sub-committee and D&I 
Advisory Team
• Increased global awareness of the D&I program 
through employee communications and special events
• Enhanced diverse talent recruiting eﬀorts and provided additional development opportunities 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS /parenleft.capNAM/parenright.cap HONORS ROLE OF WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP AT FMC
Barbara Fochtman, Director of Global Operations for FMC Lithium, was named a 2017 Science, Technology, Engineering and Production (STEP) Ahead Honoree by NAM. The STEP Ahead Awards honor women who have demonstrated excellence and leadership in their careers and represent all levels of the manufacturing industry. “I was honored to be chosen as a STEP Ahead Honoree, and want to thank FMC for nominating me and my colleagues,” said Barbara. “It’s important that we continue to inspire and develop the next generation of female leaders in the industry, and the STEP Ahead Awards provide a great forum for peer dialogue and mentorship.”
The STEP 
Ahead Awards are part of the larger STEP Ahead initiative launched to promote the role of women in manufacturing through recognition and research. FMC employees Luanne McGovern, Director of Corporate Engineering and EHS, and Jennifer Hirsch, Production Services Manager for Agricultural Solutions, Wyoming site, also received STEP Ahead nominations.
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/three.tf
WHO WE ARE    WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT
2016 results on women in management: 4.6 percent increase in Women in Management (grades 25+) over 2015. 
% of Women in ManagementFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/four.tfDiversity in Leadership 
A focus on D&I 
is present in the highest levels of the organization. In February 2016, Margareth Øvrum, Vice President of Technology, Projects and Drilling for Statoil Group, an international energy company based in Stavanger, Norway, was elected to FMC’s Board of Directors. Margareth’s signi/uniFB01cant experience in safety, sustainability and environmental management in the petrochemical industry provides valuable insight to the Board and to FMC. With Margareth’s election, there are now two women on the Board, bringing the percentage of female Board members to 18 percent. This is an 
important step toward a balanced approach to governance, but we acknowledge there is still progress to  
be made.  
AFFINITY GROUPS AROUND THE WORLD
D&I eﬀorts expanded signi/uniFB01cantly across the globe in 2016. In Cork, Ireland, employees launched a “New Generation” young professionals network to connect with FMC employees worldwide. Two new Women’s Initiative Networks (WIN) began in  
Campinas, Brazil, and Manila, Philippines, building on the momentum of WIN North America. WIN North America, founded in 2014, hosted a series of events designed to educate, advance and inspire employees, including a personal /uniFB01nance seminar, a panel discussion on multigenerational diﬀerences, a career visioning group and several networking events to facilitate new relationships across the company. In 2017, WIN North America will focus on four new themes: 
• Education and development – teaching 
employees about gender paradigms in  the workplace
• Outreach and wellbeing – encouraging  
self-improvement, personal balance and community engagement
• Networking – providing opportunities and tools 
to build new connections
• Global WIN connectivity – connecting, learning 
and sharing ideas with WIN chapters around the world     
INVESTING IN TOOLS  
FOR EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT
Throughout 2016, we invested a signi/uniFB01cant amount of time and resources into building a world-class Human Resources organization that accelerates business success and further develops employees. A key component of this transformation was the implementation of GPS, a global performance management system that creates consistency in talent reviews, including goal setting and achievement, competency assessments and development planning.
WOMEN IN AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS LEADERSHIP
Women comprise about 40 percent of the agriculture 
labor force. In developing countries, most smallholder farms are run by women who help feed a growing population. Women must be represented in agriculture leadership to provide their perspectives. FMC Agricultural Solutions has made remarkable strides toward an inclusive leadership model with 15 percent women in leadership in 2016, an increase of 4 percent from 2015. Mark Douglas, FMC Agricultural Solutions president, is proud to say, “The women on my extended leadership team bring amazing talent and diversity of thought and are instrumental in the continued growth of our business.”URSULA  
LUETTMER/hyphen.capOUAZANE 
Commercial 
Director, Northwest Europe, FMC Agricultural Solutions
JILL HOLIHAN 
Director, Product Development and Regulatory Aﬀairs, FMC Global Specialty Solutions MARIA DELOURDES 
FUSTAINO
Regulatory and 
Product Development Director, Latin AmericaTRACY WU 
President, FMC 
China, Business 
Director Agricultural Solutions  
North Asia
BETHWYN TODD 
President, FMC Asia, Vice President and Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia AMY O’SHEA  
Vice President and Business Director, FMC Agricultural Solutions U.S. and Canada Crop
DIANE ALLEMANG 
Global Director, Global  
Portfolio Strategy 
MARGARETH ØVRUMFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/five.tfBUILDING SKILLS FOR SUCCESS:  
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
FMC recognizes that our highly talented employees 
bene/uniFB01t from training and development programs tailored to their needs. These programs range from early career introductions to the company, such as university cooperatives and internship, to advanced leadership development programs.  Initiatives across the regions highlight the commitment to developing our employees. 
In the U.S., we began a Front Line Leadership (FLL) 
training initiative for employees in manufacturing. A “front line leader” is a supervisor for the operators of a particular manufacturing unit or area. The initiative was designed to provide foundational skills and competencies for current and future front line leaders in manufacturing. For these employees, technical skills are required, but excellence in leadership is what will diﬀerentiate FMC now and in the future. Training topics included employee development, performance management, employee engagement, team building and communication. FLL training also aimed to create a learning culture that encourages employees to practice and share leadership skills. 
In 2016 we launched a similar leadership skills 
training program in Brazil through the Leadership Development Program (LDP). This program concentrated on four main areas:
1. Developing a vision for success, including 
organizational strategy, performance management tools and market trends
2. Managing high performing teams, including 
organizing and mobilizing strategic groups
3. Implementing and executing projects, 
including organizing actions, processes and metrics
4. Improving decision making and analytical 
skills, including identifying and prioritizing issues while balancing team needs 
In addition to the LDP, FMC in Brazil launched a new Commercial Development Program. FMC customers, including farmers and crop protection distributors, require the highest standard of technical knowledge from our sales, marketing and R&D teams. To ensure we support customers with best in class services, this program oﬀered commercial teams 16 hours of classroom training and four weeks of online training activities focused on communication, relationship building, deep product knowledge and applicability. 
BUILDING A WORK/LIFE 
BALANCE: NEW UNITED STATES PARENTAL LEAVE AND DEPENDENT CARE POLICY 
FMC is dedicated to supporting 
employee work/life balance and providing resources to help employees more easily align their careers with the needs of their families. In October 2016, Pierre Brondeau announced a signi/uniFB01cantly expanded Parental Leave and Dependent Care Policy for U.S. employees. Under the new policy, a mother may take up to six months oﬀ from work, and a father, spouse or adoptive parent up to 20 weeks, to welcome a new child to the family. The majority of this time oﬀ is paid. This type of Parental Leave Policy is still quite rare in the U.S., and FMC shows leadership with this announcement. 
“It’s important that FMC’s bene/uniFB01ts and HR 
policies re/uniFB02ect what matters most to our employees and their families,” said Kyle Matthews, FMC Vice President, Human Resources. “The ability to balance work while caring for loved ones or welcoming a new child to the family has become increasingly important. FMC is proud to be at the forefront of employers that are introducing progressive parental and dependent care bene/uniFB01ts that help employees lead successful careers and raise great families.” FMC employees dedicate remarkable time and energy to the company, and this policy is an important and necessary step for inclusion.
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/five.tf
Asia
PacificEMEA Latin
AmericaNorth
America5001,0001,5002,0002,500Females
Males/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf TOTAL WORKFORCE 
BY REGION & GENDER/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf TOTAL  
WORKFORCE BY REGION + GENDERFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/six.tf
 FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
   
 /one.tf/six.tf
 FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   
• HIGH VALUE  
MANAGER ACCELERATOR  
This two-day training 
program focused on managerial skills, coaching, motivation, delegation and building eﬃcient teams. Twenty-four managers and team leaders attended.
• CROSS POSITION TRAINING  
Production teams trained operators across production units to improve skill sets and increase /uniFB02exibility in plant management. CHINA
• PRODUCT TRAINING  
FMC employees educate and advise growers in Pakistan. The company provides training to ensure growers are equipped with the knowledge and information they need to be eﬀective product stewards. In 2016, FMC Pakistan hosted four training programs for sales teams that included information on fungicide and herbicide use, application techniques, new crop usage and many other topics.PAKISTAN
• SITUATIONAL  
LEADERSHIP SEMINAR  
Leaders and managers participated in a 12-hour training program that introduced four diﬀerent styles of leadership based on Situational Leadership Theory. Diﬀerent styles can be employed based on the conditions of the project or the style of the person being led. Managers were introduced to basic psychological concepts to determine what leadership style to use and when.
 
• SKILLS ADVANCEMENT  
Employees attended several  
external courses in communication  
skills and software to further  
their development.PHILIPPINES
• SKILLS ADVANCEMENT  
Employees attended several external courses in communication skills and software to further  
their development.SINGAPORE
• TAKING  
OWNERSHIP TRAINING  
Employees were trained on taking initiative to advance new ideas and manage projects, as well as how to encourage teamwork and give constructive feedback. INDIA
KEY
TRAININGOUR INITIATIVES 
IN ASIA /endash.cap Over 
53,000 hours of 
training in 2016
FMC initiated intensive training on Ethics and 
Compliance in China and India in 2016. Over 30 leaders per country participated in two-day workshops on compliance and received training on FMC's Code of Ethics, legal compliance and /uniFB01nancial standards. These "compliance champions" took the message to their regions and regular follow-up sessions are planned. We will expand this training in 2017.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/seven.tfSTRATEGIC LEADERSHIP PROGRAM 
This year, we continued the Strategic Leader Program, 
a year-long development program for FMC’s senior leaders from around the world. Participants came together in Philadelphia for two, multi-day sessions, which included lectures, coaching classes, and group and individual exercises. These sessions focused on team leadership and helped leaders expand their skills to ensure that new ideas can be turned into programs that will impact business success. The program concluded with a leadership presentation and networking opportunity with FMC’s Executive Committee.  
ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  
FMC formalized Engineering Development Programs  
(EDP) to attract, develop and retain highly talented engineers, beginning with the Health and Nutrition and Lithium businesses. EDP engineers start with  
FMC after they graduate and spend 12 to 18 months  
working with the Technical Center and Corporate Engineering Services teams in Ewing, New Jersey. They have the opportunity to apply key engineering fundamentals in real world applications. These opportunities include safety and data-based decision making, using technical skills such as  
creating material and energy balances, and developing capital deployment projects. Current EDP engineers work on projects at FMC manufacturing locations around the world, providing them with valuable technical experiences. For 2017, the EDP accepted /uniFB01ve students, and will expand to include the Agricultural Solutions business.
IMPROVING EMPLOYEE ENVIRONMENTS
Employees spend the majority of their waking hours at work, therefore workplace environments can signi/uniFB01cantly aﬀect health and well-being. In May 2016, FMC oﬃcially relocated the Philadelphia headquarters to FMC Tower at Cira Centre South. We were proud to announce that the new building received the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certi/uniFB01cation for its commercial interior. LEED is a green building design standard that measures building performance and certi/uniFB01es the sustainable aspects of a building. There are currently more than 82,000 LEED projects located in over 162 countries and territories, but there are only 24 LEED Commercial Interior spaces in Philadelphia that have achieved Gold certi/uniFB01cation or higher. FMC is proud to join such an elite group of peers. Increased natural light and open spaces in modern design are known to increase quality of life at work. The inviting spaces were designed to encourage collaboration and innovation.
THE FMC TOWER AT CIRA CENTRE SOUTH IN 
PHILADELPHIA HAS RECEIVED THE LEADERSHIP IN ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN /parenleft.capLEED/parenright.cap GOLD CERTIFICATION FOR ITS COMMERCIAL INTERIOR.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/eight.tf
PRODUCTSOURWe continually deliver sustainably advantaged products 
to our customers to meet the world’s nutritional needs and deliver lower carbon solutions. Our research and development pipeline is the strongest it has ever been with many new products to be introduced over the next  several years.  FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /one.tf/nine.tf
As the world population grows to approximately 9 
billion people by 2050, our resource-constrained planet faces signi/uniFB01cant challenges, including an increasing need for nutritious food and sustainable modes of transportation. FMC is already addressing some of these challenges through groundbreaking innovation and strong supply chain partnerships. Our products are a vital part of the path to a sustainable food and energy future, and a strong R&D pipeline ensures we will deliver sustainably advantaged products for the long term. 
FMC researchers developed the Product 
Stewardship and Sustainability Assessment (PSSA) tool to ensure each new product introduction is more sustainable than the current benchmark. The PSSA includes questions addressing each of FMC’s identi/uniFB01ed /uniFB01ve major global challenges. A product should show progress in at least one of the areas without regressing in another before it continues in the development process. R&D scientists and engineers must complete the PSSA at each stage of project development. Scientists develop more complete answers to the PSSA questions as their research moves forward and therefore gain more insights into the product’s attributes. Each business has a unique PSSA tool that is appropriate and relevant for their project development. For example, the Agricultural Solutions PSSA considers human health and ecological toxicity, while the Lithium PSSA reviews whether the product promotes more sustainable energy or transportation. 
Every quarter, FMC aggregates PSSA scores across 
business units to determine our total R&D spend toward sustainably advantaged products. As announced in the 2015 Sustainability Report, FMC’s goal is to achieve 80 percent of R&D spend toward sustainably advantaged products by 2020.
FMC CONTINUES ITS DEVELOPMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS FOR 
OUR CUSTOMERS. FOR EXAMPLE, FRACTURE™, A BROAD SPECTRUM, BIOLOGICAL FUNGICIDE IS LABELED FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF FUNGAL INFECTION WITH KEY CROPS LIKE ALMONDS, GRAPES, TOMATOES AND STRAWBERRIES.INNOVATION TO MEET 
GLOBAL CHALLENGES
Our attention to researching and 
developing increasingly sustainable product lines is accelerating. We have made progress toward our commitment to the 2020 target for research and development:
/eight.tf/zero.tf% BY /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tfOF R&D TO SUSTAINABLY 
ADVANTAGED PRODUCTS
Our goal is to dedicate
2014 2015 201667%76%
74%/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf GOAL
/parenleft.cap/eight.tf/zero.tf%/parenright.cap
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/zero.tfDELIVERING PRODUCTS FOR 
THE FUTURE: SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION AND  
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
FMC is committed to introducing products that 
control only the target organism, thereby avoiding negative impacts on ecosystems and human health. Our products help growers /uniFB01ght damaging pests, weeds and disease with increased eﬃcacy and precise application methods. We focus on classes of chemistries that have a decreased environmental footprint, allow for reduced application rates and can complement biological products in mixtures and integrated pest management programs.  
Solutions for Growers’ Changing Needs
To feed the growing global population, it is 
crucial to maintain or reduce natural resource use while maximizing the potential yield of crops. Pest management in agriculture across the world is changing rapidly. Farmers face challenges with growing pest resistance and changing climate conditions. To ensure growers have the options they need now and in the future, FMC is developing an innovative pipeline of approximately nine new synthetic active ingredients and /uniFB01ve new biological strains that will be commercialized over the next seven years. FMC’s R&D portfolio extends from improving formulations of existing active ingredients to innovating entirely new chemistries.
FMC has signi/uniFB01cantly expanded our fungicide 
oﬀerings in recent years, and in 2016 we announced the beginning of the registration process in the U.S. and Canada for Bixafen™, a new fungicide active ingredient. This product is the /uniFB01rst novel active ingredient submitted by FMC in approximately 15 years, and marks a new chapter in the history of FMC Agricultural Solutions and its commitment to active ingredient development.Bixafen is highly eﬀective against a wide range of fungal diseases in row crops, and is an important part of a revitalized pipeline to give growers the tools to manage resistance and /uniFB01ght diseases that compromise yield. 
Another key example from our diversi/uniFB01ed 
portfolio that helps meet the challenge of feeding a growing population is the new 3RIVE 3D™ applicator, an eﬃcient and sustainable method of applying crop protection products during planting. In 2016, FMC /uniFB01nalized the commercial on-planter application technology that minimizes labor, water use and fuel use. The patent-pending formulation and delivery system uses a small amount of water and expands the product three dimensionally to cover 50 times more area than traditional formulations. This technology allows growers to plant and protect up to 500 acres on a single /uniFB01ll-up of the system, and use 90 percent less water than traditional liquid delivery systems. FMC is formulating and testing several active ingredients using this new technology, including biological and traditional fungicides, insecticides and soil amendments. This sustainably advantaged and eﬃcient technology is an innovative way for FMC to promote sustainable agriculture. 
FMC is a technology leader with patented 
Liquid Fertilizer Ready (LFR®) formulations. This formulation technology allows growers to mix insect control products into liquid fertilizer systems already installed on the planter, eliminating the need for additional water and redundant applicators. By using systems already installed on the planter, LFR® brands simplify and accelerate the planting operation for growers. FMC is consistently expanding the use of this technology through partnerships, and in 2016 we announced 
THE EASE OF MOUNTING /three.tfRIVE /three.tfD™ TO ALL MAJOR PLANTER BRANDS COMBINED WITH 
ITS BEST/hyphen.capIN/hyphen.capCLASS DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR CROP PROTECTION PRODUCTS POSITIONS THIS 
INNOVATION WELL WITH OUR GLOBAL CUSTOMER BASE.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/one.tfan agreement to bring an eﬃcient and eﬀective 
fungicide from BASF to the LFR® platform. In 2017, through this partnership, FMC will launch Temitry™ LFR® insecticide/fungicide in the U.S. corn market. 
A diversi/uniFB01ed approach to crop protection is core to 
FMC’s ability to advance sustainable agriculture. In the last few years, we have started to build a strong biological product portfolio through the BioSolutions alliance with Chr. Hansen. This portfolio is one component of the comprehensive Plant Health platform, which is dedicated to advancing plant yields using:
Biological active ingredients and microbes | protecting and stimulating crops using products derived from natural bacteria found in plants and soil
Seed Treatments | using bacteria to 
protect the seed and nurture an emerging plant once in the ground
Plant Nutrition | adding basic nutrients 
to soil to ensure optimal conditions for healthy crop growthFMC is increasingly innovating in these three areas, and in 2016 we focused on expanding the reach of the micronutrient business. Because nutrients are vitally important to soil and plant health, there is increasing concern about the depletion of key elements from soil in many areas of the world. With this in mind, FMC partners with farmers to provide technical support on improving soil health. For example, in Pakistan, technical experts oﬀer a mobile soil testing service program known as “Doctor Soil”. Doctor Soil experts conduct a complete soil fertility test on a farmer’s /uniFB01eld and the results provide land-speci/uniFB01c nutrient de/uniFB01ciency details. The farmers can then use soil amendments to improve the quality of soil and signi/uniFB01cantly increase opportunity for healthy, high yield crops. 
Pest Protection for Specialty Uses 
FMC’s expertise in pest protection extends beyond 
agriculture to specialty solutions including lawn and tree care, nursery and ornamental operations, and residential and commercial structural pest control. Additionally, FMC has products for adult mosquito control, a critical need for protecting public health. In 2016, the signi/uniFB01cant uptick in transmission of the Zika virus required targeted actions to control populations of the Aedes aegypti mosquito, the species that primarily carries and transmits the virus. FMC provides two key products in mosquito control:
• Fyfanon® ULV Mosquito insecticide• Talstar® Professional insecticide 
These tools are vital to pest management professionals and municipal mosquito abatement to control the mosquito population and slow the progression of the Zika virus. With only two classes of chemistry available for adult mosquito control, FMC provides products that ensure the ability to control the population long term.
As a result of carefully considering sustainability 
from the outset of a project, we are /uniFB01nding more ways where we can positively impact the global challenges. This includes FMC’s strategy to replace older crop protection chemistries with new products and technologies./uni00A0In 2016 we completed an assessment of our active ingredients and products to determine which ones may potentially be classi/uniFB01ed as Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHPs). As a result, we are conducting speci/uniFB01c country risk assessments for where we sell these products and proposing mitigation, if needed, until the products are replaced by newer chemistries. We have also initiated a replacement program for inert ingredients identi/uniFB01ed as HHPs.
1
2
3
FMC’S MOBILE DOCTOR SOIL EXPERTS CONDUCT LAND/hyphen.capSPECIFIC 
NUTRIENT TESTS AND PROVIDE GROWERS WITH TAILORED MICRONUTRIENT SOLUTIONS.
OUR PRODUCT LINES FOCUSED ON PLANT HEALTH USE BENEFICIAL 
BACTERIAL STRAINS TO DELIVER CROP PROTECTION AND INCREASE OVERALL YIELDS FOR GROWERS.
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/two.tfOver the past several years we have reduced the 
number of countries where we sell one of our oldest products, Furadan®, by 75 percent. Our goal has been to only sell this product in countries where the application is done under highly controlled and mechanized conditions. As an extension of our strategy we will be phasing this product completely out of the market within the next two years. 
FMC LITHIUM:  
BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE 
As global economies develop, it is important that companies advance sustainable modes of transportation and energy distribution to secure a low carbon footprint future. In 2016, FMC Lithium rapidly accelerated growth, innovation and customer focus to power a more sustainable mobile world. As lithium battery technology advances, we partner directly with our customers to provide the highest quality lithium products for energy storage, electric vehicles, electronics and many other advanced applications. 
FMC’s approach to product innovation is highly 
focused on three key product areas: lithium hydroxide, butyllithium and high purity  
lithium metal. 
Lithium Hydroxide
FMC is the market leader in reliable, safe and 
technologically advanced lithium hydroxide products. In May 2016, we announced plans to expand production capacity of lithium hydroxide by 20,000 metric tons per year, eﬀectively tripling current production capacity by 2019. Phase one of the expansion is expected to be complete by mid-2017 and will serve the growing demand for high-quality lithium hydroxide that powers electric vehicles. In addition, our new plant in Jiangsu, China will help reduce FMC’s shipping footprint when we deliver to customers in Asia.
FMC Lithium researchers develop lithium products 
that can improve battery performance. For electric vehicles, energy density is a key variable in long battery life and eﬃcient charging. Currently, many lithium ion batteries use lithium carbonate-based cathode materials that have a low energy density. As high quality battery needs increase, higher performance battery materials are required. These materials often require lithium hydroxide. In 2016, FMC Lithium R&D teams conducted and presented studies that demonstrate how our lithium hydroxide products can be used with certain chemistries to improve battery manufacturing eﬃciency and overall battery performance. Butyllithium
In the butyllithium (BuLi) market, FMC provides 
advanced materials to optimize our customers’ technologies. BuLi is used in the production of high performance rubber and elastomers, which are often used in high performance tires. These tires have a lower rolling resistance with the road surface, thereby increasing vehicle fuel eﬃciency and wet grip traction and reducing noise. With four production locations around the world, FMC is able to deliver the products our customers need, safely and eﬃciently.
AS ELECTRIC VEHICLE ADOPTION CONTINUES TO GROW IN EMERGING 
MARKETS LIKE CHINA, FMC’S LITHIUM TECHNOLOGIES WILL BE AT THE FOREFRONT OF THIS GROWTH. 
“We partner closely with leading manufacturers of 
lithium ion batteries and electric vehicles to
ensure our production meets their current and 
future demand. Our manufacturing network 
is highly flexible, which allows us to increase 
capacity or accelerate expansion plans as customer needs warrant. ”
                       
      TOM SCHNEBERGER,  VICE PRESIDENT AND  
                               GLOBAL BUSINESS DIRECTOR, FMC LITHIUMFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/three.tfSOURCING AND APPLICATIONS PROCESSING GLOBAL PRODUCT
APPLICATIONS FOR:
Salta, 
Argentina
North Carolina, USA
THE DIVERSE PRODUCT LINES THAT USE FMC LITHIUM ARE 
COMPONENTS IN INNOVATIVE TRANSPORTATION AND ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES THAT ENABLE A LOW CARBON ENERGY FUTURE. FMC MANUFACTURES OUR PRODUCTS IN STRATEGIC GLOBAL LOCATIONS TO MINIMIZE THE SHIPPING AND TRANSPORTATION FOOTPRINT. FMC RESPONSIBLY SOURCES LITHIUM BRINE FROM A HIGH ALTITUDE PLATEAU NEAR SALTA, ARGENTINA. WE USE SOLAR EVAPORATION TO CONCENTRATE THE BRINE AND EFFICIENTLY PROCESS IT INTO HIGH/hyphen.capVALUE LITHIUM PRODUCTS WHILE CAREFULLY PROTECTING THE BIODIVERSITY AND NATURAL RESOURCES OF THE LAND. FMC PARTNERS CLOSELY WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY IN THIS RURAL REGION TO PROVIDE RESOURCES, EDUCATION AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS. IN NORTH CAROLINA, FMC PROCESSES LITHIUM HYDROXIDE, SPECIALTY LITHIUM SALTS, HIGH/hyphen.capPURITY METALS, BUTYLLITHIUM AND SPECIALTY ORGANICS. AT OUR SITES IN CHINA, INDIA AND THE UNITED KINGDOM, WE PRODUCE HIGH QUALITY BUTYLLITHIUM.
Zhang/j.caltiagang, 
ChinaPatancheru, IndiaRechargeable batteries
for personal electronics, such as cell phones, laptops, also used in glass and ceramic materials
Specialty greases and lubricants, high energy density lithium ion batteries including electric vehicle batteries and large format grid storage systems
Components for chemical manufacturing
Pharmaceutical applications
Synthetic "green" rubber applications, 
including tires and other /uniFB02exible rubber productsAir treatment and puri/uniFB01cation applicationsAlloyed metals, used with aluminum for aerospace lightweight metals; lightweight, non-rechargeable lithium batteries, including household, medical and military applications
Bromborough,
United KingdomSPECIALTY
LITHIUM
SALTSLITHIUM
HYDROXIDE
BUTYL/hyphen.cap
LITHIUMBASIC
LITHIUM
METALSPECIALTY
ORGANICSHIGH PURITY
METALSLITHIUM
CARBONATE
LITHIUM
CHLORIDELITHIUM
BRINEPOWERING AN  
ENERGY REVOLUTIONFMC’S GLOBAL LITHIUM 
SUPPLY CHAINFMC continues to advance lithium technologies 
and applications that are enabling our customers to revolutionize their product lines and markets. Our lithium products are changing the energy landscape and addressing climate change in the process.
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/four.tfHigh-Purity Lithium Metal
FMC is the only producer of high-purity lithium 
metal in the Western Hemisphere. It is used in lithium-aluminum alloys that strengthen an aircraft’s fuselage while also reducing its weight. Light-weight materials enable an aircraft to be more fuel eﬃcient. These products are used in a commercial aircraft fuselage, also in aerospace, engine parts and other modes of air transportation. In addition, advanced energy storage technologies, such as rechargeable lithium metal systems, require lithium metal that can oﬀer higher energy density as compared to the best available lithium ion systems.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Every day, the FMC Health and Nutrition business transforms naturally derived materials into valuable solutions that help customers stabilize foods, enhance medicine eﬀectiveness and improve wellness around the world. We process sustainably sourced seaweeds and cellulose /uniFB01ber into high-value products such as alginate, carrageenan and microcrystalline cellulose. These products provide stability and other vital characteristics to food and allow eﬀective delivery of pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals. We work with customers to develop solutions tailored to consumer needs, including leveraging experience in natural colors to help remove arti/uniFB01cial colors from food products. 
Increasingly, global consumers are seeking 
transparency about what is in their food, including “clean label” products made with ingredients they recognize and understand. In 2016 FMC launched a new nutraceutical product, Aquateric™ N100 Enteric Coating made from seaweed-based alginate. Aquateric is a clean label, non-GMO coating used to protect /uniFB01sh oil capsules while in the stomach, keeping them intact until later in the digestive process. This technology allows for an improved sensory experience for the consumer by reducing unpleasant /uniFB02avors and odors associated with /uniFB01sh oil supplements. 
In 2016, carrageenan was reviewed by the National 
Organics Standards Board (NOSB) which provides recommendations to the U.S. Department of 
FMC NAMED SUPPLIER OF THE YEAR BY 
NESTLÉ NORTH AMERICA
FMC Health and Nutrition was named 
Supplier of the Year by Nestlé in the raw materials category. FMC was commended for delivering solutions that enabled consistent and innovative products for Nestlé while minimizing costs.
“We are delighted to be recognized by 
Nestlé in North America for the value of our service,” said Eric Norris, President, FMC Health and Nutrition. “At FMC, we place the utmost importance on our customer relationships, going beyond the responsibilities of an ingredient supplier and providing a much higher level of expertise and support.”
Throughout our collaboration, FMC and 
Nestlé have shared similar values of safety, quality and sustainability.
Shell dissolves at higher pH to deliver the active ingredientAquateric™ N100  
Coating
Customized Alginate blend coating protects Omega-3 from stomach acid and reduces "/uniFB01shy burps"
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/five.tf
Agriculture (USDA) about food ingredients that 
can be included in certi/uniFB01ed organic products. Carrageenan, an ingredient naturally derived from seaweed, has decades of safe use in many foods and beverages as a stabilizer. Recently a few consumers have expressed concern about its safety. Results of many peer-reviewed studies indicate that carrageenan is non-toxic and safe for use as a food ingredient. In the fall of 2016, the National Organic Standards Board concluded that carrageenan is not an “essential” food ingredient and recommended that the USDA remove it from the approved national list of ingredients that can be included in certi/uniFB01ed organic products. The USDA will review the recommendation and make its /uniFB01nal decision in 2018. FMC will continue to work with consumers, academia and NGOs to understand the concerns and increase education about the eﬀectiveness and safety of carrageenan.
We see opportunity in sustainable, longer term 
strategic options for Health and Nutrition products, including using our traditional functional ingredients as active ingredients.  
For example: 
In 2016, the US Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) formally de/uniFB01ned the ingredients that can be claimed to add dietary /uniFB01ber to foods. The FDA evaluated clinical evidence of 30 ingredients that previously claimed /uniFB01ber bene/uniFB01ts, and cellulose (including microcrystalline cellulose) is one of only seven ingredients that FDA approved for use based on evidence of eﬃcacy. The new /uniFB01ber de/uniFB01nition will take eﬀect in 2018. CARRAGEENANSUSTAINABILITY
FACTS
WARM WATER SEAWEED IS CULTIVATED BY FAMILY FARMERS IN AFRICA AND 
SOUTHEAST ASIA.
SEAWEED CULTIVATION PROMOTES BIODIVERSITY AND SUPPORTS HUNDREDS  
OF LOCAL FARMERS.
SEAWEED IS PROCESSED INTO CARRAGEENAN WHICH STABILIZES FOOD.
THE STABILIZATION PROPERTIES OF CARRAGEENAN REDUCE ENERGY ASSOCIATED WITH REFRIGERATION. 
1
3
4
2FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/six.tf
RESPONSIBILITYOURWe take responsibility for the environmental 
impact of our manufacturing processes and products very seriously. We seek to be strong community partners where we work and live.  Advancing the health of the environment and our communities is mutually bene/uniFB01cial to FMC and our stakeholders.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/seven.tf
DEDICATED TO UNDERSTANDING 
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
FMC is on a path of continuous improvement 
to reduce the environmental impacts of our manufacturing footprint. Energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use and disposal of waste to land/uniFB01ll are key impacts of chemical manufacturing. FMC plants report these impacts on a quarterly basis. To decrease the company’s environmental footprint, in 2015 we set goals to reduce energy, GHG, water and waste intensities by 2025. We pursue a tailored approach to reaching those goals based on the metrics, which include:  
• Reducing energy and GHG through strong 
engineering practices and eﬃciencies, as well as evaluating fuel types and choosing lower GHG-emitting fuels when possible 
• Assessing the water availability and quality risk 
at all manufacturing locations using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct tool. We then focus water reduction eﬀorts at the locations determined to be high risk
• Targeting waste-to-land/uniFB01ll sources and 
seeking alternative disposal methods, including bene/uniFB01cial reuse  
Please see pages 32-33 for our detailed environmental pro/uniFB01le and progress.
PROGRESS BEYOND OUR DOORS: 
UNDERSTANDING FMC’S SUPPLY CHAIN 
As FMC has become more advanced in reducing 
our own manufacturing impacts, the next step on our sustainability journey is to /uniFB01nd opportunities to promote sustainability beyond our doors. A major part of FMC’s environmental and social footprint exists outside of our own manufacturing. We purchase millions of dollars of goods and services for use in our products that we, in turn, transport to our customers around the world. To minimize the impacts of these activities, FMC remains committed to responsible procurement and has begun the process of measuring and monitoring our logistics footprint.  
All FMC suppliers are expected to comply with 
the Supplier Code of Conduct that clearly states FMC’s high standards of integrity and ethical behavior. However, our efforts to manage the social and environmental impacts of FMC’s  
diverse set of suppliers go beyond implementing  
the Code. 
For all new raw material suppliers, the 
Procurement team employs an internal supplier prequali/uniFB01cation process. This process assesses a supplier’s sustainability eﬀorts, safety record, environmental and quality management systems and responsible sourcing, and ensures that the raw material supply is ethical, reliable and safe.  
In addition to the prequali/uniFB01cation screening, 
FMC partners with an external screening and risk management provider to qualify contractors who may be exposed to the hazards of the manufacturing site or may expose personnel, community members or the environment to additional hazards in the course of their work. The third-party process carefully assesses these contractors, including evaluation of safety, environment and sustainability criteria, to best protect people and the environment.
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/seven.tf
BY /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf: ZERO WASTE TO 
LANDFILL FOR FMC HEALTH AND NUTRITION
FMC Health and Nutrition is 
pursuing zero waste-to-land/uniFB01ll for all manufacturing locations by 2025. From 2013 to 2016, we reduced waste intensity by 55 percent. In 2016, the /uniFB01rst waste diversion audit was conducted at the Cork, Ireland site and it was certi/uniFB01ed to have greater than 99 percent waste diversion from land/uniFB01ll. We will certify the Haugesund, Norway, and Girvan, United Kingdom, sites in 2017.
ZERO
WASTE TO  
LANDFILL
by 2025
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/eight.tfFMC promotes sustainable labor and work 
practices in our supply chain. In 2016 we initiated a partnership with the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) to thoroughly evaluate supplier social responsibility. Through Sedex, suppliers answer a series of questions regarding their responsible and ethical business practices, including human rights, labor standards, health and safety, and business ethics. FMC is then able to evaluate whether a supplier adheres to our high standards. FMC has initiated relationships with suppliers that are current members of Sedex and has successfully engaged with 67 percent of those current members we targeted. Sedex regularly updates FMC on changes to supplier pro/uniFB01les. In 2017, we will identify our strategic suppliers that are not current Sedex members and work with them to join the program.
LOGISTICS NETWORKS FOR THE FUTURE
FMC utilizes multiple transportation modes to move raw materials and products, including road, rail, air and ocean freight. The decisions we make in logistics have a signi/uniFB01cant environmental impact. In 2016, FMC evaluated our footprint using industry standards for measuring the sustainability of logistics. Logistics vary widely by region, so we began by assessing the greenhouse gas emissions generated from global ocean freight and North American road freight.
In 2017, we will develop methods to measure and 
monitor a broader scope of our global logistics footprint. This will support our long-term objective  to create a target to decrease emissions associated with logistics through optimization. As part of our commitment to transparency, we will join EPA’s SmartWay Partnership and begin reporting the greenhouse gas emissions that are generated from North American road freight. An update on our progress will be included in the 2017 Sustainability Report. 
Packaging for Progress
Throughout FMC’s sustainability journey, employees  
responsible for product packaging have worked 
closely with suppliers to /uniFB01nd sustainable packaging options while ensuring the highest standards of safety and quality for our customers. When we signi/uniFB01cantly expanded our footprint in Europe in 2016, we reviewed the packaging we purchase for the region. After a careful evaluation of safety, we replaced some cardboard with a thinner grade and plastic packaging with a lower weight in Agricultural Solutions. In doing so, we were able to reduce cardboard consumption by 170 metric tonnes and plastic consumption by 20 metric tonnes per year. Those reductions equal 18 percent less paper consumption and a 4 percent reduction in plastic consumption annually versus 2015 with respect to the aﬀected products. 
In Brazil, Agricultural Solutions continuously seeks 
more sustainable packaging options. Since 2012, we have sourced “Green Bottle” packaging, which is composed of at least 51 percent sugarcane-based polyethylene. From 2012 to 2016, purchasing Green Bottles allowed FMC to avoid 3,520 tonnes  of GHG that would have been associated with 100 
OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH VILLANOVA 
UNIVERSITY COMING IN /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/seven.tf
In 2017, we will launch an 
exciting partnership with Villanova University to advance the sustainability of our packaging portfolio. As part of the Resilient Innovation for Sustainable Engineering Forum, students studying sustainable engineering will partner with FMC sustainability, procurement 
and operations personnel to assess the categories of packaging that FMC uses the most and determine opportunities  
for improvement.  
OUR GREEN FAMILY OF FMC PACKAGING SOLUTIONS ALLOWS OUR 
CUSTOMERS TO ADDRESS INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY EMISSIONS, RESOURCE USE AND WASTE TARGETS.SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING FAMILY GOT BIGGER.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /two.tf/nine.tfpercent petroleum-based packaging. In addition 
to the Green Bottles, we use recycled bottles that are composed of at least 85 percent recycled polyethylene. Using these recycled bottles instead of virgin plastic materials allowed FMC to avoid over 1,600 tonnes of GHG over the three-year period. We have also used 100 percent recycled polypropylene caps since 2015.However, these more sustainable packaging options comprised only 20 percent of packaging used in FMC Brazil in 2016. By 2018, we plan to shift 100 percent of packaging in the region to these more sustainable options including 85 percent Green Bottles and 15 percent recycled bottles. 
PROGRESSING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
The communities in which FMC operates are integral to the company’s success. We believe we have a responsibility to our neighbors to not only provide employment, but also to understand what is most important to them to create a thriving community. All 26 FMC manufacturing sites conduct community development programs based on local needs. 
FMC’s Community Engagement Index reports 
on the breadth and depth of the company’s eﬀorts in local communities. Each FMC-owned manufacturing site reports quarterly on its community activities, which are organized into four categories: 
In all facets of our operations, we put safety /uniFB01rst and share our safety 
knowledge with our neighbors. 
At the FMC Lithium site in Patancheru, India, site personnel held National Safety Day celebrations. They hosted employees from nearby industrial plants, including industry leaders, and shared their safety knowledge and experience. Employees demonstrated safety devices and discussed FMC’s approach to the safety culture so they could learn from our experience. 
Patancheru, IndiaSafetyWe strive to be 
transparent about 
our business activities 
so they are well 
understood in  
the community. 
FMC Agricultural Solutions in Rønland, Denmark, provides vital support to the small community 
that surrounds it. Rønland site employees hosted an open house during which family and community members toured the site and learned about the operations and research work occurring. FMC Rønland has many long-standing partnerships with the community, including support for technical and regional schools, cultural festivals and health clinics.Operational Transparency
Rønland, Denmark
/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf RESULTS 
ON COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT INDEX
The Index measures 
interaction with our communities in four areas: operational transparency, safety, community leadership and community partnership. 
2014 2015 2016
/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf GOAL
/parenleft.cap/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf%/parenright.cap
87%91%96%FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/zero.tfIf a site completes an activity in each category, it 
earns a 100 on the Community Engagement Index. In 2016, FMC achieved a 91 on the Index, which shows that our sites are implementing meaningful programs that are accelerating our progress toward our 2020 goal of 100. 
In addition to the four categories above, education 
is a vitally important part of FMC’s community engagement strategy. Two long-time partnerships include the World Food Prize and the Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) at the Wharton School.
• FMC is a supporter of the World Food 
Prize, which is known as the “Nobel Prize for agriculture” and promotes agricultural advancement in the developing world, and its Global Youth Institute, which supports student research. 
• The IGEL program at the Wharton School, 
University of Pennsylvania, seeks to promote thought leadership in sustainable business on a global scale. In late 2015, we published a Knowledge @ Wharton article on “Feeding the World”. Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, also spoke on a panel discussion about “Careers in Sustainability” to encourage students to consider the path of corporate sustainability. 
FMC continues our involvement with developing future leaders in agriculture through the National FFA in the U.S. In 2016, we sponsored the Agriscience Research Plant Systems Pro/uniFB01ciency Program, a research-based award program within FFA. The program supports students who are conducting research in plant sciences independently or in collaboration with experimental stations or colleges and universities. FMC representatives had 
OUR SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITIES ON PEMBA ISLAND IS ONGOING. 
TO IMPROVE SANITATION AND HYGIENE INFRASTRUCTURE, FMC SUPPORTED THE CONSTRUCTION OF A COMMUNITY LATRINE FACILITY.We manage our community relationships with an emphasis on taking 
active, participatory roles.
In an eﬀort to promote career development in the Philadelphia region, FMC 
collaborates with Cristo Rey High School, an independent, college preparatory school for students who cannot otherwise aﬀord a private education. To fund their education, the students participate in a work-study program that builds professional experience and skills early in life. FMC is a “job partner” and works with 16 students who spend /uniFB01ve days a month interning at FMC, gaining valuable knowledge in a professional environment. Community Leadership
Philadelphia, PA, United States
These relationships 
involve sharing 
our personal 
and professional 
skills, talents and 
interests to further 
our mutual welfare.
Pemba Foundation: FMC sources seaweed from small farmers in 
Pemba Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania. When the island was hit by a cholera outbreak in 2015, FMC partnered with the Pemba Foundation to build sanitation infrastructure in a small community. This infrastructure was completed in 2016, including toilets and showers. In addition, the project partnered with the Department of Health to train people on hand washing and improved hygiene. The Pemba Foundation continues to work to make an impact on this life-threatening disease.Community Partnership
Zanzibar, TanzaniaFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/one.tfthe opportunity to join other leading scientists 
from around the nation to judge the student competition during the National FFA Convention. We also continue to support the Walter Biddle Saul High School of Agricultural Sciences in Philadelphia, one of four local FFA chapter schools sponsored by FMC. This year, FMC organized a /uniFB01eld trip for the entire W.B Saul School to the Franklin Institute, another long-time FMC community partner. 
In 2016 we launched a new 
initiative to contribute to the future of agriculture in Australia, where we became a partner to the Future Farmers Network. FMC made an educational presentation at the 2016 Young Beef Producers Forum. This partnership will expand in 2017 to promote technical leadership and responsible farming practices across the country. 
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/one.tf
DEVELOPING THE  
FUTURE GENERATION OF FARMERS 
In Pakistan, FMC works to develop the next generation of farmers through the “Rising Stars” program. Rising Stars is a series of programs that teach children from farming regions about the promising opportunities in agriculture. The children learn about the importance of agriculture to the economy as well as the educational programs and career options available to them. They also learn technical skills such as responsible and safe farming practices. Once they have completed the program, they are tasked with being “ambassadors” for agriculture in their local villages. These programs give con/uniFB01dence to rural children and encourage them to continue their education while pursuing a career  
in agriculture. One important aspect of the Rising Stars program was participation in PSiFi, Pakistan’s largest science competition. The competition was held at a highly regarded business school in Pakistan, and FMC Pakistan sponsored farmers’ children who competed with students from across the country. Students also attended information sessions about the business school and learned how opportunities in higher education could transform their lives. 
Muhammad Nasir Ali is one of the Rising Stars. 
He spoke about his experience at the science competition: “The event was a dream come true. I got to visit the best institution in our country and come toe-to-toe with the /uniFB01nest brains in business during the competition. This experience gave me immense con/uniFB01dence as I realized I have what it takes to reach the top. I come from an agricultural background and have learned how we can revolutionize rural life through technological advancement.” 
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/two.tf
/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS
FMC CORPORATION 
METRIC/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf TARGET
/parenleft.capVS. /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/three.tf BASELINE/parenright.cap/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf PERFORMANCE 
/parenleft.capVS. /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/three.tf BASELINE/parenright.cap
Energy intensity -15% +12%
GHG emissions intensity -15% -2%
Waste disposed  
intensity-15% -38%
Water use intensity 
at high risk locations-20% +25%
FMC measures our environmental footprint on an 
intensity basis (X metric tonnes of energy, GHG, water or waste per tonne of product). In 2016, FMC's environmental performance varied greatly among Agricultural Solutions, Health and Nutrition and Lithium. The reduction in GHG emissions intensity was driven by changes to cleaner burning fuels in Health and Nutrition and Lithium. We reduced the waste disposed intensity through phasing out a highly waste intensive product in Agricultural Solutions. Agricultural Solutions, FMC’s largest business, produces 69 percent of the company’s total product volume. Because of this, improvements in energy and water use intensities in other businesses are often ‘masked’ by variations in AgS product volume. For example, a major energy reduction in Lithium may not appear in the overall FMC energy intensity results due to Agricultural Solutions production changes. Therefore, in addition to reporting our environmental performance metrics as overall FMC, we also report them by individual business to communicate progress more clearly and transparently.
NOTE: Historical information (2013-2015) has been adjusted to include environmental data from recently acquired Cheminova 
manufacturing locations. 2013 2014 2015 2016GLOBAL ENERGY USE 
BY BUSINESSTotal Energy Use (Terajoules)
Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per Tonne)1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
102030405060
2013 2014 2015 2016GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS 
BY BUSINESSTotal GHG Emissions (K-Tonnes CO 2e)
GHG Intensity (Tonnes CO 2e per Tonne)
100200300400500600700
1.0
0.51.52.02.53.03.54.0
Lithium Total
 Health and Nutrition Total
 Agricultural Solutions Total
Agricultural Solutions
Active Ingredient ContractManufacturing Total
2013 2014 2015 2016GLOBAL WASTE DISPOSED 
BY BUSINESSTotal Waste Disposed (K-Tonnes)
Waste Disposed Intensity (Kg per Tonne)1020304050607080
50100150200250300350400
Lithium 
IntensityHealth and Nutrition Intensity Agricultural Solutions + Active IngredientContract Manufacturing Intensity2013 2014 2015 2016GLOBAL WATER USE AT HIGH RISK LOCATIONS 
BY BUSINESS*Total Water Use (Million Cubic Meters)
Water Use Intensity (Cubic Meters per Tonne)0.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.0
50100150200250
*The water risk analysis includes only FMC owned sites, not active  
  ingredient manufacturers. 
FOR GRAPHS PRESENTING ALL ABSOLUTE DATA VALUES, 
FMC TOTALS AND ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL DATA, VISIT  FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM/GOALS/hyphen.capDATAFMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/three.tfEach business focused on improving their metrics 
that have the highest impact on the 2025 goals. Its eﬀorts are summarized below. 
LITHIUM 
FMC Lithium has achieved signi/uniFB01cant reductions in  
energy and water use. As the business grew over the past two years, it focused on increasing production capacity while minimizing resource use. 
1. Energy | With a strong focus on improving  
eﬃciency, FMC Lithium increased production  by 13 percent while reducing absolute energy  use by 1 percent since 2013. This remarkable  
achievement amounts to a 12 percent  reduction in Lithium energy intensity. 
2. Water | FMC Lithium requires water to extract     
lithium resources from salt /uniFB02ats in Argentina,  so we carefully steward water resources. We  reduced water intensity by 22 percent since 2013.  
We are also engineering solutions to further  reduce water use through additional water reuse  
treatment and improved process controls.  
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
FMC Health and Nutrition uses the most energy of all FMC business units as a result of manufacturing highly re/uniFB01ned products.
1. Energy | We conducted several focused energy  
audits at Health and Nutrition sites and found  energy reduction opportunities, resulting  in /uniFB02at absolute energy use despite increasing  production by 2 percent. We expect that the  multi-year energy improvement roadmap will  yield additional reductions.    2. GHG | We achieved a 22 percent reduction  
in absolute GHG emissions and a 24 percent  reduction in GHG intensity from the 2013  baseline. This reduction was accomplished by  converting the facility in Rockland, Maine,  to run on natural gas and improving energy  eﬃciency. As we implement additional energy  improvement projects, we expect GHG  emissions to decline further.  
AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS
In the production of Agricultural Solutions products, FMC-owned manufacturing sites perform the steps of product formulation, mixing and packaging.  
Agricultural Solutions Owned Sites
1. Waste | FMC’s Agricultural Solutions sites focus  
on waste reduction due to the high volumes  
they produce. Over the last three years, we  focused on eﬃcient operations and  repurposing waste streams into value-added  materials for other industries. As a result, we  reduced absolute waste-to-land/uniFB01ll by 60  percent and waste intensity by 48 percent.  It is important to note that a portion of this  improvement is driven by a 24 percent  reduction in Agricultural Solutions' production  totals due to business conditions. 
For many years, FMC Agricultural Solutions has worked with contract manufacturers that synthesize active ingredients for FMC. Because this chemical synthesis has a material environmental impact when compared to the FMC-owned formulation and packaging operations, we also account for the impacts of contract manufacturing. Agricultural Solutions Contract Manufacturing 
1. Energy | Energy intensity increased by 2  
percent since 2013. Over those three years,  production increased by 10 percent while  absolute energy use increased by 13 percent.  Our active ingredient product mix has evolved  every year to include diﬀerent AIs based  on grower needs and changing pest pressures.  Changing needs have required FMC to produce  AIs that are more resource intensive, which  increases energy intensity.
2. GHG | GHG intensity increased 16 percent from  
2013-2016, including an absolute GHG  emissions increase of 28 percent. 
3. Waste | Waste intensity increased by 2  
percent and absolute waste disposal increased  by 12 percent since 2013. Similar to GHG  emissions, this metric is heavily in/uniFB02uenced  by the speci/uniFB01c products that FMC made in 2016  to meet customer requirements, including  some products that are highly waste intensive.   
ACTIONS TO CONTINUE PROGRESS 
Each business has identi/uniFB01ed new projects to favorably impact the metrics and these projects are included in their 2017 capital plans. 
ASSURANCE SCOPE
In this 2016 Report, FMC included data from legacy Cheminova 
sites for the /uniFB01rst time. Because the data that was assured in the 2015 Report did not include Cheminova, the historical information in this report is no longer consistent with last year’s assured data. It should also be noted that the 2016 independent assurance does not include: Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing Total, Total Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing + FMC Intensity, and Global Water Use at High Risk Locations.FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/four.tfASSURANCE STATEMENT
Our conclusions
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that 
the 2016 absolute and intensity data for the indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. 
Our assurance activities  
Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are reported in 
accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organisation) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: 
• Interviews with relevant staﬀ to understand and evaluate the data 
management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the selected data
• A review of the internal indicator de/uniFB01nitions and conversion factors
• Visits to three sites (Rockland, ME, USA; Bessemer City, NC, USA; and 
Ronland, Denmark) to review local reporting processes and consistency 
of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator - we interviewed relevant staﬀ, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes  
• An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the 
completeness and accuracy of the corporate data consolidation 
• Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of 
internal review procedures and the accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the selected indicators from the site data
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the 
available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. We did not assure the Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing 
Total or the combined FMC and Contract Manufacturing Intensity. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.  
 Jennifer Iansen-RogersHead of Corporate Assurance Services 17 May 2017  
Independent Assurance Statement to FMC Corporation 
 
ERM Certification and V erification Services (ERM CVS)  was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) to provide limited 
assurance in relation to specified 2016 environmental and safety data in th e 2016 FMC Sustainability Report  as set 
out below .   
Engagement s ummar y 
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement   Whether t he FMC 2016 data for the  following  environmental and safety indicators  presented on pages 
5, 6, 11,  and 32, and on FMC’s sustainability website FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM/GOALS- DATA  are 
fairly presented in all material respects , with the reporting criteria:  
• Total FMC and Business level Direct and I ndirect (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 2016 Absolute and 
Intensity Energy Use (Terajoules and Gigajoules/Tonne of Production)  
• Total FMC and Business level (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 2016  Absolute and Intensity GHG 
Emissions (K -tonnes CO2e and tonnes CO2e /Tonne of Production)  
• Total 2016 FMC and Business level Absolute and Intensity Water Use (Million Cubic Meters and Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production)  
• Total 2016 FMC and Business level Absolute and Intensity Total Waste and Absolute and Intensity Waste Disposed (K -tonnes and Kg/Tonne of Production)  
• Waste Disposed per disposal type – landfill, fuel blending, and incineration with and without 
recovery (K -tonnes and Kg/Tonne of Production) 
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  
Reporting 
criteria   The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and FMC’s  internal 
reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators .  
Assurance  
standar d ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
ISAE 3000  (Revised).  
Assurance level Limited  assurance .  
Respective 
responsibilities  FMC  is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, 
including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.   
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope  based on the assurance 
activities performed and exercising our professional judgement .  
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2016 absolute and intensity data for the 
indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria.   
 
Our assurance activities   
Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are reported in accordance with the principles of completeness, 
comparability (across the organisation) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and 
consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.  
A multi -disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities:  
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the selected data;  
• A review of the in ternal indicator definitions an d conversion factors;  
• Visits to three sites ( Rockland, ME, USA; Bessemer City, NC, USA; and Ronland, Denmark) to review local reporting 
processes and consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We 
interviewe d relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the 
local internal quality and assurance processes.   
• An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data 
consolidation.  
• Year -end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review procedures and the accuracy 
of the consolidation of the data for the selected indicators from the site data.  
 
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calcul ating 
or estimating the underlying information. We did not assure the Active In gredient Contract Manufacturing Total or the 
combined FMC and Contract Manufacturing Intensity.  It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.    
                                                                                                        
Jennifer Iansen -Rogers  
Head of Corporate Assurance Services   
17 May 2017
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com  
 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance 
activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from 
bias and conflict of interest.  ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken  this engagement  work have provide d no consultancy 
related services to FMC  in any respect  
ERM Certi/uniFB01cation and Veri/uniFB01cation Services, London  |  www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY 
RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.  ERM CVS AND THE ERM STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN THIS ENGAGEMENT WORK HAVE PROVIDED NO CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC IN ANY RESPECT
FMC /two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /three.tf/five.tfBOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pierre R. Brondeau
President, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Chairman of the Board FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OﬃcerCabot Corporation
G. Peter D’Aloia
Managing Director andMember of the Board of DirectorsAscend Performance Materials  
Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer
PrincipalGreer and Associates
K’Lynne Johnson
Former Chief Executive Oﬃcer and PresidentElevance Renewable Sciences
Dirk A. Kempthorne
President and Chief Executive OﬃcerAmerican Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive OﬃcerW. R. Grace & Co.
Margareth Ø vrum 
Executive Vice President of 
Technology Projects & Drilling Statoil GroupRobert C. PallashRetired President, Global Customer Group and Senior Vice PresidentVisteon Corporation
William H. Powell
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive OﬃcerNational Starch and Chemical Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. 
Retired Chief Executive Oﬃcer and PresidentDresser-Rand Group, Inc.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Pierre R. BrondeauPresident, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Chairman of the Board 
Paul Graves
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Andrea E. Utecht
Executive Vice President  
General Counsel and Secretary
Mark A. Douglas
PresidentFMC Agricultural SolutionsEric W. NorrisPresidentFMC Health and Nutrition
Tom Schneberger
Vice President,Global Business DirectorFMC Lithium 
Barry J. Crawford
Vice PresidentOperationsKenneth A. GedakaVice President  
Communications and Public Aﬀairs
Kyle Matthews
Vice PresidentHuman Resources
Karen M. Totland 
Vice President,  
Global Procurement, Global Facilities & Corporate Sustainability
OFFICERS
Brian P. AngeliVice President, Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations
William Chester
Vice President, Global Tax 
Marc L. Hullebroeck
President, FMC EuropeVice President and Business Director  
FMC Agricultural Solutions, EMEA
David A. Kotch
Vice President,  
Chief Information Oﬃcer
Amy O’Shea
Vice President and Business Director  
FMC Agricultural Solutions, North America CropRonaldo PereiraPresident, FMC Latin AmericaVice President and Business Director  
FMC Agricultural Solutions, Latin America
Nicholas L. Pfeiﬀer
Vice President,  
Corporate Controller  
and Chief Accounting Oﬃcer
Michael F. Reilly
Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Chief Compliance Oﬃcer
Andrew D. Sandifer
Vice President and Treasurer
Charles J. Thomas
Vice President, FinanceBethwyn ToddPresident, FMC AsiaVice President and Business Director  
FMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia
Shawn Whitman
Vice President, Government Aﬀairs