2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SHAPING  
SOLUTIONS fOr 
THe fUTUreFMC developed this 2013 sustainability report to 
share information about our company’s sustainability programs and the activities we undertake to have a positive impact. It follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines and received a GRI Application Level 
Check of B. Our full GRI Content Index can be found at www.fmc.com/sustainability/griindex. Covering activities in fiscal year 2013, this is the third annual sustainability report FMC has published.
This report encompasses all FMC globally owned 
and managed assets worldwide in the three strategic businesses that comprised our April 2013 realignment: FMC Agricultural Solutions, FMC 
Health and Nutrition and FMC Minerals. It does not 
reflect the 2014 announcement of FMC’s intention to separate into two publicly listed companies, nor does it include results from the recently divested Peroxygens business. That business became a discontinued operation in third quarter 2013 and we have excluded its current and historical data from this report. In doing so, we are able to present meaningful comparisons and align with the GHG Initiative 
Protocol recommendation for handling divestitures. 
Additionally, we have included information on the environmental impacts from our Agricultural Solutions contract manufacturers for active ingredients this year because they are material to our business and we believe that it is our responsibility to work with our closest business partners to help reduce their impacts. All measurement techniques are indicated with the data.
For more information about FMC sustainability, 
please contact Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, at sustainability.info@fmc.com.AbOUT THIS 
RepoR t
Links to additional information are provided 
throughout the report and marked by the symbol above. Simply enter the appropriate number at fmc.com/sustainability to connect with 
your information. TAbLe Of
CoNteNtS
FOSTERING SAFETY: 
Shaping Safety Responsibility 
at FMC and Beyond 
EMPOWERING TALENT: 
Shaping Careers
with the Right Chemistry
GROWING INNOVATION: 
Innovations with a 
Sustainable Advantage
MINDING OUR RESOURCES: 
Managing Resources for Greater Efficiency
CULTIVATING COMMUNITY: 
Sharing in the Future of Our Communities8
14
223038Our people are the heart of FMC’s sustainability 
culture. Every day, more than 5,600 employees around the world are shaping innovative solutions that meet present and future customer needs. Whether we are enhancing food production, 
helping to improve human health and nutrition, or 
contributing to a more sustainable energy supply, we are always mindful of our responsibility to conserve natural resources, give back to the communities where we operate, and keep our employees safe.
We have embraced a new approach to R&D that 
requires a thorough evaluation of the potential sustainability impact before new products or applications are developed. Three years ago, we set a 
2015 goal to allocate at least 50 percent of our R&D 
spending to projects that positively impact one or more of our five global sustainability challenges. We surpassed our goal in 2013.
I am also pleased to report steady progress last year 
in safety and community engagement. In 2013, our Total Recordable Incidence Rate was 0.41, well on our way to the 2015 goal of 0.37. And our Community 
Engagement Index rose to 83, on a steady path to 
reaching our 2015 target of 90.
Equally important, in 2013 we continued to 
integrate sustainability into our business processes.  A MeSSAGe
FRoM oUR
CHIeF
eXeCUtIVeoFFICeRSpecifically, we:
  •  Expanded our vendor selection process to ensure 
      suppliers meet our expectations regarding legal       compliance, environmental, health, safety, ethical,       human dignity and fair labor practices.
  •  Further integrated sustainability into our stage 
      gate process for new product development.
  •  Included sustainability in our Capital 
        Deployment Process.
Companies that are flexible are often in the best 
position to embrace change, whether it means 
incorporating sustainability into decision 
making or pursuing a new company structure. 
Today, FMC is in the midst of significant 
change. In March 2014, we announced 
plans to separate into two independent, 
public companies: a new FMC Corporation that consists of our Agricultural Solutions 
and Health and Nutrition businesses; and 
FMC Minerals, comprised of our Alkali Chemicals and Lithium businesses. This realignment is a 
natural progression of our Vision 2015 strategic 
plan, providing greater freedom for each company to optimize its respective business model. Although each company will serve different markets with its own experienced management team and talented workforce, both will inherit a common sustainability DNA that has become a defining characteristic of today’s FMC. The marketplace will soon have two FMC legacy companies with solid frameworks in place to measure and maintain 
sustainability progress.
We are proud of our accomplishments, but we know 
there is more we can do to lessen our environmental footprint, broaden our sustainable product portfolio, improve safety and strengthen our community relationships. We accept these challenges and look forward to addressing them with our customers and in the communities where we operate throughout the world.
Pierre BrondeauPresident, Chief Executive Officerand Chairman of the BoardSHAPING 
SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE  
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  1Chemistry touches all of us daily. Everything we 
see, feel, smell, taste and hear involves some form of chemical interaction or reaction. With the “right chemistry,” FMC contributes to ensuring the well-being of people and our planet. 
Our mission is to feed the world, protect health 
and provide the conveniences of life. We do this by leveraging our scientific expertise, innovative culture and collaborative relationships with partners across our value chain. We consider the potential benefits and liabilities of our products and work to make decisions that support more sustainable products both today and in the future. 
We are continually seeking ways to further integrate 
sustainability into our business processes. Prior to investing capital in a new project, for example, we now have a formal assessment procedure that takes sustainability impacts into account. Our risk management process factors in sustainability by 
examining risk velocity (for example, defining a 
realistic timeframe for a sustainability impact). Planning and implementing these and other evaluation techniques are part of an evolutionary process that we consider on an ongoing basis.SHAPING OUr ACTIVITIeS 
FoR poSItIVe IMp ACt
North America
$1,285 | 33%
Asia Pacific
$680 | 18%EMEA
$528 | 13%Latin America
$1,382 | 36%FMC Agricultural Solutions
Main product lines:  insecticides, 
herbicides, fungicides and biologicals
2013 Revenues: 
$2,146 million
55% of FMC total
Main product lines:  microcrystalline 
cellulose, carrageenan, alginates, 
natural colorants and omega-3 fish oil
2013 Revenues: 
$762 million
20% of FMC total
FMC Health and Nutrition
Main product lines: soda ash, sodium 
bicarbonate and lithium
2013 Revenues: 
$970 million25% of FMC totalFMC Minerals
Income Statement Data
Revenue $3,875
Cost of Sales and Services $2,534
Research & Development $   118
Adjusted After-Tax Earnings $   528
Payments to Providers of Capital
Interest $     39
Dividends $     74
$   113
Capital Additions $   272
reVeNUe by 
CUStoMeR loCA tIoN
(in millions)
fMC bUSINeSS GrOUPS 
AND pRoDUCt lINeS
2013 eCONOMIC
HIGHlIGHtS (in millions)
2 SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREFMC’s sustainability report is built on the premise that 
in order to address our most salient issues, FMC must collaborate with stakeholders to determine where we have the most material impacts. We therefore engage with key constituents to share ideas and discuss 
challenges. The input informs development of our 
materiality assessment, which in 2013 covered over 60 topics. The interplay between stakeholder engagement and materiality enables us to increase transparency and address high priority concerns. 
Engaging Our Stakeholders
FMC considers our stakeholders to be people and organizations that share our objectives and whom we 
affect in some way. As they are the target audience 
for this report, we asked representatives of each key stakeholder group for feedback on the 2012 sustainability report and its content. Our goal was to determine how we could increase the effectiveness of our report and deliver on our commitment to engage with stakeholders in a way that met their needs and interests. 
Respondents indicated that the report was relevant 
and showed FMC to be on a solid path to broadening 
its role as a responsible business. At the same time we learned that stakeholders wanted to see more hard data and yearly comparisons, explanations about our material impacts and simplification of the language in ASSeSSING OUr
IMpACtS
our report. We have listed and attempted to address 
these requests in this 2013 report.
Relationship-building is a constant journey and FMC 
is continuing to foster closer bonds with our most 
significant stakeholders. They are: 1
  •  Employees and prospective employees  who 
      have a personal and professional desire to be part 
      of a responsible organization. Current employees       have a vital stake in FMC’s progress toward       greater sustainability. They are concerned about 
      and contribute to every facet of our business, 
      including our ability to ensure a productive,       supportive and safe environment in which they can       enhance society’s well-being. 
(See pages 14-21 for 
      more information.)
  •  Business stakeholders  who seek innovations in 
      products, productivity and resource utilization to       satisfy the world’s demands. Our customers look to       FMC to help improve their own sustainability.       Suppliers and business partners are meeting 
      procurement criteria that incorporate ethics, 
      human rights, labor practices and other issues of       global interest. We consider others in our industry       to be valuable colleagues and actively work with       them in trade associations. These organizations       provide forums for sharing best practices and serve       as advocates on industry’s behalf. 
2
The following table includes some of the key suggestions from our stakeholder 
engagement work and how we are working to address their comments.
STAKeHOLDer eNGAGeMeNt
Area for 
improvementStakeholder feedback Ways we are addressing feedback Ex.
TARGETS The 2015 targets are a step in 
the right direction, but more specific targets on an expanded set of metrics are desired. Working to establish specific long-term targets for more of 
     our metrics 
 2013 commitments and results and 2014 goals provided in a 
     separate tablep. 7
DATA Stakeholders want to see increased inclusion of meaningful data and direct explanations of impacts.  Expanded reporting on environmental metrics and provided 
     performance discussion on each metric
 Increased reporting of measurable impacts in other areas of the 
     report; will continue to work on this in the futurep. 33
TRANSPARENCY Discuss challenges in addition to successes.  Increased discussion of our challenges with use of clearer 
     language throughout the reportp. 31
MATERIALITY Ensure reporting on issues that are most important to stakeholders and have largest impact.  Expanded engagement efforts provided improved clarity on what 
     is material to stakeholders
 Worked to allocate space in report towards most material 
     impacts (e.g., community section now includes more information      on biodiversity and stewardship vs. volunteerism and donations)p. 39
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  3  •  Communities, non-governmental organizations 
      (NGOs) and governments  with whom we must 
      successfully interact in order to make progress. 
      As a chemical company we challenge ourselves       every day to improve the safety and efficacy of our       products. No matter what the circumstance, we 
      want stakeholders to understand FMC’s 
      commitment to and achievements in sustainability       based on scientific facts about our products’       chemistry and benefits. 
(See pages 39-40 for 
      more information.)
  •  Investors  who recognize that corporate 
      responsibility in all its forms is a business       imperative that adds value to our company       and society. 
In this report, we discuss sustainability topics that are deemed material – or of relatively greater significance – to our business and our stakeholders. We determined materiality by reviewing over 60 issues 
compiled from GRI’s general list of issues and CERES 
21
st century roadmap. We grouped these issues 
into categories germane to chemical, agricultural and mining companies. Based on input from our stakeholders about their priorities and input from various internal team members, we ranked each topic 
for its materiality. All issues were evaluated using a 
five-test analysis that looked at financial impacts and risks, legal, regulatory and policy drivers, peer-based norms, stakeholder concerns and societal trends, and opportunities for innovation. 
3 All topics scoring above a certain threshold on this analysis are addressed in this report. Four topics made a step change in materiality this year compared 
to our 2012 materiality assessment: procurement, 
human rights, waste and global food supply. Topics deemed highly material in 2012 and that increased in importance in 2013 are: product safety, innovation, green chemistry, financial performance, health and safety, product stewardship and public safety.
The chart below shows the main categories under 
which we group issues and the most material topics 
within that category.
Labor relations 
Human rights
Recruitment and retention
Education and training
Product stewardship
Climate change issues (including GHG emissions)
Brownfields
Waste/byproducts/effluents
Other emissionsGlobal food supply
Public access/safety 
Community relationsProduct safety 
Product environmental 
impacts 
Innovation and green 
chemistry 
Financial performance
Sustainable business strategyMARkETPLACE OPERATIONS
WORkPLACE
ENVIRONMENTCOMMUNITY2013 
MAteRIAl 
IMpACtSMATerIALITy ASSeSSMeNT
Health and safety
Global standards and codes 
of conduct (REACH, etc.)
Resource efficiency
Procurement
Green manufacturing
4 SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREExECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY 
GROUP
DIVISIONBOARD OF 
DIRECTORS 
SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE
SUSTAINABILITY 
STEERING TEAM
IMPLEMENTATION TEAMS
FUNCTION REGIONOUr COMMITMeNT TO
SUSt AINABIlItY pRINCIpleS
Sustainability is not a “program” at FMC. Rather, it is 
increasingly central to the way we work. 
Five sustainability principles guide FMC’s operating 
philosophy and decision-making: fostering safety, 
empowering talent, growing innovation, minding our 
resources and cultivating community. They align with our corporate Vision 2015, the five-year strategic roadmap we established in 2010 and are vital to how we shape our company and the choices we make as a sustainable, ethical and responsible business. By clearly articulating these five sustainability principles, FMC is better able to integrate sustainability into our daily activities and long-term planning. We constantly 
challenge ourselves to fulfill this responsibility. 
We know this is a journey that requires continual 
refinement and improvement, and our commitment to sustainability comes from the very top of our organization. This means we have the support necessary to pursue and take action on sustainability 
goals. With this focus, we always strive to improve 
alignment between our business strategy and our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. 
Our sustainability governance structure provides 
overall guidance, priority setting and access to resources, while allowing core teams in each business 
Weiwei Mao, lab technician, conducts high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of samples at the FMC Asia 
Innovation Center in Shanghai, China.Typical teams include representatives from 
research and development, marketing, operations, safety, and human resources in addition to others as desired. Global diversity is also encouraged to broaden the range of viewpoints.
fMC SUSTAINAbILITy
GoVeRNANCe StRUCtURe
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  5INTeGrATING THe 
SUSTAINAbILITy PrINCIPLeS
All of what we do and can accomplish at FMC depends on our people and enabling them to thrive in a safe, 
supportive and ethical work environment. 
FOSTERING 
SAFETYEMPOWERING 
TALENT
MAJOR GLOBAL CHALLENGESWe place two sustainability principles, fostering safety and 
empowering talent – the term we use to refer to our employees – at the forefront of our agenda. These two principles provide 
the underpinnings to successfully advance the principles of 
innovation, resources and community. Only with safe, talented and motivated people will we be able to make a difference in the areas encompassed by the other three principles. 
While striving for responsible and ethical behavior in everything we do, we have become increasingly proactive in managing our impact – both inside and outside our company. By staying focused 
on innovation, efficient management of resources across our 
operations and supply chain, and responsible citizenship in the community, we can take advantage of the combined strengths of our internal team and our external stakeholders to tackle some of 
the world’s most significant challenges. 
CULTIVATING
COMMUNITYMINDING 
OUR 
RESOURCESGROWING
INNOVATION
A growing population 
is increasing the demand for energy, water and other basic resources.As efforts to cope with greenhouse gas and other emissions become more aggressive, the impact on high-intensity industries will increase.Increased agricultural efficiency will be required to produce 
crops, biofuels, 
biotextiles and 
bioplastics.A growing population will require increased food production, 
accessible healthcare 
and more nutritious 
foods to meet the rising expectations of an expanding middle class.There is a growing desire for increasingly safe 
and environmentally 
benign materials.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
CONSCIOUSNESS SCARCE 
RESOURCES CLIMATE CHANGEFOOD & HEALTH 
ExPECTATIONSLAND 
COMPETITION 
6 SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE2011
2015
and functional area to engage in detailed 
discussions that create value for FMC and its stakeholders.
Facing Major Global Challenges
FMC’s mission and focus on improving lives worldwide led us to pinpoint five “market shaping shifts” that we can influence. When we began our formal sustainability program in 2011, these 
shifts served as a blueprint for taking 
a more strategic and comprehensive approach to our responsibilities in meeting the needs of a rapidly changing world. 
Going forward we will refer to the 
“shifts” as “major global challenges.” 
This revised terminology reflects the fact that these issues are among society’s most profound concerns and have significant implications for our shared future. Because FMC and our products can make a positive contribution to mitigating the problems, they frame our direction and give greater meaning to 
our work. 
More than anything, we want to shape 
FMC’s future as a contributor to a better world. Creating solutions that address these major global challenges are vital to the stakeholders with whom we partner and share the goal of a more sustainable future.
Evolving Our Role
FMC has made a choice to embrace sustainability. We know that our influence goes beyond our company and our immediate stakeholders into the broader world. As a leading specialty 
chemicals company, we are in a position 
to make a meaningful difference – and we are committed to doing so. SUSTAINAbILITy GoAlS
2013 CoMMItMeNtS
Continue to integrate 
sustainability into existing 
business processes.Integrated sustainability into the capital deployment process.
Ensure we have the 
infrastructure to quickly 
engage stakeholders in the 
event of an emergency.Published and utilized a corporate 
incident management guide. 
(Read 
more on page 12).
Provide product stewardship 
training on secure storage and 
container management in Asia 
and Latin America.Over 19,000 people were trained in 
Latin America. (See pages 40-41 
for more details).
Continue to embed sustainability into employees’ 
everyday roles.Conducted ‘How You Can Make a Difference’ campaign. Survey 
results indicate the need to 
continue making sustainabiltiy relevant for all employees.
In 2013, all employees will be retrained under FMC’s Code of Ethics (revised in 2012).In 2013, 97% of all employees were re-trained on the new code and the remaining 3% are expected to 
complete the program in 2014.
Civil treatment training for managers to be completed at 
all U.S. and Canadian sites.All U.S. and Canadian managers 
completed civil treatment 
training in 2013.
Requalify all significant 
suppliers against our 
updated vendor selection and management process.In 2013, all of our most significant existing suppliers were requalified. 
(See page 37 for more details.)
In 2013, the EMCOE team will conduct comprehensive plant 
energy assessments.Energy audits were conducted at 
our Rockland, Maine, and Milazzo, 
Italy, facilities. 
(Read more 
on pages 31-32.)
2014 GoAlS
Pilot a focused sustainability training program.
Complete social audit assessments at five more sites.
Train all US employees in Civil Treatment Program.
Validate all existing raw materials suppliers and significant 
construction contractors with FMC’s vendor selection and management process.
Complete Manufacturing Excellence programs at two additional sites: 
Wyoming, Illinois and Middleport, New York.
Conduct an energy assessment by the EMCOE team at Green River, 
Wyoming, FMC’s largest site.
Perform a detailed waste assessment project to inform our strategy 
for waste reduction.
Integrate sustainability considerations into M&A and capital 
allocation processes.Increase our 
Global Community Engagement Index to > 90Reduce our TRIR by at least 50% (to < 0.37) when 
compared to 2011
TRIR of 0.41 57% of R&D spend Index increased to 83
2015
tARGetS
50% of R&D spend focused on new solutions that positively impact the global challenges
2013 ReSUltS
ReSUltS
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  7FOSTERING
FoSteRINGSHAPING SAFETY 
RESPONSIBILITY AT FMC 
AND BEYOND
Whether welding 
at our Green River 
facility, working in a 
lab or driving home 
from work, safety is 
paramount at FMC.
Safety serves as the backbone of FMC’s culture. Our substantial 
progress in embedding a safety mindset has heightened 
awareness of everyone’s responsibility for his or her own safety 
and the safety of others with whom we interact inside and outside our organization.
8 SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE20112 0122 0132 0142 015.73
.37.59
.41
With strong senior management commitment 
and employee involvement, safety vigilance is a constant … and our effort is yielding results. Our 2013 safety results are the best in our history with a 35 percent reduction in injuries from 2012.
Embracing TH!NK. SAFE.
Shaping thinking and actions is a cornerstone of TH!NK. SAFE., the campaign we launched in 2012 to elevate safety awareness in all aspects of employees’ lives. In 2013, to build on our momentum and keep safety messages fresh and top-of-mind, we routinely 
distributed highly visible posters, tabletop displays 
and door hangers throughout our facilities. These 
materials were translated into multiple languages to 
enable employees worldwide to have a more precise 
understanding of the initiative. The materials visually complement the prominent “safety share” ideas that employees exchange at the start of every meeting.
To heighten the impact of our safety messages, we 
produced three TH!NK. SAFE. videos featuring first-person accounts by FMC employees. In dramatic portrayals of the difference that “one moment” makes, individuals described how, in a split second, a lack of attention to safety led to hazardous and sometimes fatal outcomes. As a means to further stimulate employee safety engagement, we asked 
employees to tell their story through a safety video 
campaign. Employee teams from nearly every FMC location submitted creative and impactful safety videos that were shared across the corporation. 
4
Based on focus group and survey results, we found that our emphasis on safety is leading to behavioral changes. People are more careful, deliberate and attentive to the details that can make a difference in avoiding an injury. This safety focus contributed to a 
reduction in injuries and places us well on our path 
towards our 2015 goal of a Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) less than 0.37.
In the area of process safety, FMC has been 
evaluating and benchmarking other companies’ process safety programs as we work to enhance our own. In 2014 we plan to publish internal standards based on American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Reducing Our Total 
Recordable Incident RateSafety-related ideas that employees exchange at the start of every meeting
2011 2012 2013
Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR)0.73 0.59 0.41
Lost Workday Case Incidence Rate0.28 0.18 0.11
Work-related fatalities 1 0 0
Number of significant process safety incidents* (defined as ACC tier 1 & 2)
0 0 0
new process safety code. FMC did not experience 
significant process safety incidents in 2013.
Answering the Green River Challenge
We are undertaking additional safety initiatives that target the unique challenges of FMC’s largest site – our Green River trona mining, soda ash, bicarb and caustic production facilities. In 2013 we assessed the actions that most frequently led to injuries and 
began work on communications and other mitigation 
programs to prevent reoccurrence.
The assessment revealed that both above and below 
ground there was a need for extra focus on identifying “line of fire” before and during tasks. Other key components involve keeping eyes on path and task, and concentrating on equipment – with surface activities needing to focus on using the correct tools for the task and mining operations conducting pre-shift inspections. 
FMC site teams expanded formal and informal 
discussions about high hazard situations and other safety considerations. These topics are raised during small working group sessions, line manager 
meetings with staff, in one-on-one conversations 
as executives walk through the facility and during structured quarterly dialogues with the business president on progress and plans. To supplement site-wide communications, we developed a quarterly safety newsletter that is mailed to everyone’s home to fully extend the safety education process. The in-home engagement also encourages greater safety conscientiousness among family members.SHAPING THE
FUtURe*SAFETY 
SHARe
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  9  •  Training and development to increase knowledge, capabilities 
      and accountability.
Union members are invaluable partners to ensure continual 
improvement in safety performance. The union’s assistance in engaging employees more deeply in safety practices helped reduce incidents by 25 percent compared to the previous year. Our safety record at Green River compares favorably to other mining 
companies and we are benchmarking some of our policies and 
programs against industry best practices in 2014. 
Advancing Safety Standards Worldwide
FMC strives to maintain the same level of safety standards throughout our worldwide operations – even if local requirements 
are less stringent. When applicable, our facilities implement safety 
best practices that may have originated from other sites.
Safety Alignment: Industry and Government
FMC is an active participant in the American Chemistry Council 
and has adopted the principles of the ACC’s Responsible Care
® 
Program into our global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. In 2013 FMC received third-party certification of our conformance with the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS) at our Wyoming (Illinois), Philadelphia, Rockland and 
Charlotte facilities. With these certifications, 100 percent of our 
U.S. sites are now in conformance with RCMS. 
5UNION AND 
MANAGeMeNT WOrK TO eLIMINATe LeADING CAUSe Of INjUrIeS
At Green River, the Safe Workplace 
Initiative (SWI) – a program built and run by hourly workers – continues 
to improve safety. Through the 
program, workers can request an SWI, whereby a peer will observe their work and document unsafe conditions or behaviors. The worker 
receives honest feedback from 
the observer, and the information documented is submitted anonymously. The accumulated 
submissions generate a list of 
items of concern. In 2013, union and management worked together to increase focus in SWIs on how to recognize and avoid “line of fire,” 
the leading cause of injuries in 2012. 
This effort has increased awareness and helped eliminate hazards such as pinch points. Being trained on how to identify such hazards and 
observing others keeps workers 
engaged and better able to recognize potential hazards all the time.  
With the goal of achieving fewer injuries 
by 2015, a focused “Safety One Plan” program launched in 2014 with three components:
  •  Rethinking risk and lowering our 
      risk tolerance. 
  •  Keeping everyone involved and 
      engaged in reducing injuries through       increased leadership, communication 
      and emphasis on “line of fire” safety.
Safety training videos were updated 
to include infographics and more descriptive imagery so they would be more user friendly across all languages.SAFE HANDLING
oF lItHIUM MA teRIAlS
Our safety manifesto is prominently posted at all FMC 
facilities worldwide, as seen in the Singapore facility above.
10  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREIn 2013, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) issued an updated Hazard Communication Standard which more closely aligns with the United Nations Globally Harmonized System for Classification and Labeling (GHS). FMC is taking 
steps to comply with the new standard by:
  •  Updating our safety data sheet (SDS) 
      management system to create SDS templates 
      that meet OSHA’s requirements. 
  •  Distributing material explaining the GHS 
      terminology and labeling.
  •  Offering an online GHS training module as 
      another educational tool. 
We will achieve compliance with the updated OSHA 
Hazard Communication Standard by June 1, 2015, as required.
Safety Across our Value Chain
We consider safety to be equally important whether 
on-site or off, and we take steps to continually protect FMC employees. For example, in Europe, one of our Health and Nutrition teams realized that non-FMC facilities may not have first aid treatments readily available. That team now provides a first aid kit to 
employees who travel to non-FMC facilities.
Motorist safety is another area emphasized 
globally across FMC. TH!NK. SAFE. posters and videos reinforced this emphasis and driver training continues to be offered at many sites. Driver training 
is mandatory for employees in sales, technical field 
service and other areas that require ground travel.
FMC safety policies are having an impact beyond our 
own operations. Supply chain partners realize that they need to collaborate with us to address safety concerns as an integral component of our business relationships. 
  •  Just as FMC does, we ask customers, suppliers 
      and other business colleagues to contribute       “safety share” ideas when starting a meeting.  •  The FMC Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates       that suppliers provide a safe and healthy       workplace that includes appropriate controls,       training, procedures and personal protective       equipment (PPE). They must also give priority       consideration to health, safety and security in       all aspects of product and process planning and 
      manufacturing. 
6
  •  Customers learn from our employees’ observance 
      of safety protocols and several have informed       us that they changed their practices to align with       FMC’s. One customer who noticed our team wore       full PPE decided to upgrade PPE standards for 
      his own workforce. In another case an FMC 
      employee informed a plant manager that a       factory worker without PPE was operating       equipment containing a hot liquid. The customer       agreed that the situation was dangerous and       agreed to rectify it.
  •  We often provide training seminars and tools such 
      as videos and checklists to customers to make       them more aware of safety best practices. One       customer reported implementing several of the       recommendations within weeks of FMC       conducting a technology training session about 
      PPE and safety requirements. 100%of our U.S. sites are 
now in conformance with RCMS.
Our approach to 
safety extends 
beyond our 
workplace. To 
the right, an 
example of a 
TH!NK. SAFE. 
campaign 
poster on 
mindful driving.For the second year in a row, FMC’s Alkali Chemical operation was recognized by the Industrial Minerals Association of North America as the safest large company member of the organization (those with more than 700,000 exposure hours per year).
RESPONSIBLE CARE
MANAGeMeNt SYSteMFMC ALKALI RECEIVES
SAFetY ReCoGNItIoN
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  11In 2012, FMC 
developed a safety manifesto that expresses the deep commitment across the company to acting, operating, working and living safely.
Responsibility for promoting safety extends to our communities. It is 
one of the four categories in our Community Engagement Index – a framework for quantifying our sites’ success in enhancing local relationships. As part of our commitment to safety in the community, we participate in local emergency response organizations and drills, 
and in safety training and education programs. 
7
Enhanced Emergency Planning and Preparedness
FMC developed and launched a “Corporate Incident Management 
Guide” to effectively coordinate on the ground efforts with corporate 
resources in an emergency situation in order to manage an 
incident and minimize its impact. It complements the emergency plans that already exist at each site. The approach facilitates an orderly, timely, and efficient flow of information among internal and external stakeholders. It allows us to have more comprehensive visibility into a serious incident and to support recovery by leveraging all our capabilities.
The guide came into play during the earthquake and typhoon that 
occurred in the Philippines in October and November, respectively. Both had devastating effects on the country and affected operations at our Cebu seaweed processing facility. 
  •  Our first concern is always for personal safety and we were 
      grateful to have rapidly accounted for all our employees’ and       contractors’ well-being. FMC provided assistance to employees 
      whose families were severely affected and the Manila site’s 
      sustainability committee organized a fundraising drive that       collected funds from employees around the world. This       contribution complemented our corporate donation of $75,000       to the American Red Cross.
  •  After each natural disaster, site team members went into local 
      neighborhoods to connect with our seaweed and agricultural       farmers, understand their situations and determine what       assistance was needed to help them resume farming. Our       plant manager accompanied our representatives on these trips       and helped in distributing food to those in need. UNLeASHING beST 
PrACTICeS
FMC’s Bromborough, United 
Kingdom, facility chose the Chester Zoo as the setting for its annual 
Health and Safety Day. Experts 
drew parallels between the dangers inherent in entering a wild animal enclosure and working in a factory or vessel. They emphasized the need for constant mindfulness and 
“being in the present.” When FMC 
staff toured the zoo we identified hundreds of “near miss” situations as the starting point for the launch of the zoo’s own “near miss” 
program. There was a charitable 
component as well, with FMC donating tickets to a local charity so children with cerebral palsy could visit the zoo. 
OUR SAFETY
MANIFeSto
12  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURETH!NK.SAFE. materials 
were translated into 8 languages in 2013, including Norwegian, as seen in the poster to the left.
  •  Severe power outages followed the earthquake. Our team 
      worked aggressively to make repairs in a safe, reliable and       environmentally sound manner.
  •  Two days prior to the typhoon hitting the area we temporarily 
      suspended production. This preparation contributed to the safe       evacuation of our employees and drastically reduced the level of       damage sustained at our plant. We reopened three days after 
      the typhoon, with the facility sustaining only minor damage.
Product Safety and Stewardship
Our ability to improve lives through the right chemistry can only be 
achieved when our products are used safely and as directed. FMC has comprehensive programs in place to educate our customers – whether farmers or manufacturers – about appropriate use and interaction with our products. 
8
  •  We made advances in clarifying product labels and safety data       sheets according to GHS and other standards (as described       on pages 10-11). 
  •  Since pesticidal products are now available for sale online, we 
      worked with several website owners to add product stewardship       information to their websites in order to educate purchasers on       the safe use of pesticides.
  •  We increased our training programs on secure storage of 
      pesticides and proper management of empty pesticide 
      containers in India and Brazil to help increase safety and reduce 
      potential incidents. 
  •  In our lithium business, we incorporated infographics and 
      descriptive imagery into our safety training videos. The videos       can now be used worldwide to better understand how to       properly store, handle, use and dispose of our products. 
A Continual Evolution 
Advances in our TH!NK. SAFE. and product stewardship training efforts are helping us to achieve top safety performance as we strive for zero injuries. We continue to provide tools and training to help employees stay safe at work, at home and on the road. FMC’s Agricultural Products plant 
in Lahore, Pakistan, put safety preparedness into action by inviting 
local community members to 
participate in quarterly simulations of an emergency situation. Through these simulated incidents, the community learned about emergency planning and protection 
procedures and everyone involved 
became better equipped to manage and lessen the impact of a serious incident.COMMUNITy 
MeMberS KNOW THe DrILL 
*8
lANGUAGeS
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  13EMPOWERING
SHAPING C AREERS
 WITH THE RIGHT 
CHEMISTRY
FMC’s culture recognizes individual values and aspirations 
while encouraging teamwork and sharing of best practices. An 
empowered workforce is more motivated and better aligned with 
a company’s business objectives, leading to higher productivity and increased success.Shirley Shen and Kevin 
Jiang discuss the FMC 
SeaGel® vegetarian 
capsule at the FMC Asia 
Innovation Center in 
Shanghai, China.
14  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREFMC GLOBAL
WoRKFoRCe BY ReGIoN
Our employees are the force behind FMC’s success. We rely on 
their diverse talents, high energy and creativity to move the business forward. Together we strive to make a difference in the world – whether in our immediate environment or impacting the five identified global challenges. 
Career Growth and Enrichment 
Through a number of development opportunities, FMC strives to help employees reach their career goals. We encourage growth and mobility across disciplines and regions within our company. 
Establishing Stronger Skill Sets
Nurturing an internal talent pipeline enables us to identify and 
grow future leaders who know FMC well and are dedicated to our 
mission. In addition to on-the-job training that occurs throughout 
the company, over 100 leaders around the world participated in formal training programs to ensure they are equipped with the proper skills and competencies. Additionally, in 2014 we will launch the FMC Strategic Leadership program to address the development of our more senior leaders.  
There are additional training and development programs for 
employees such as seminars, symposiums and conferences; however, we currently do not track all details on involvement in these programs. We are evaluating ways to track this information in the future to ensure that our employees continue to gain additional skills and knowledge. 
9
In several countries, the company offers an Educational Assistance Program. The program provides tuition reimbursement to employees who wish to further their education through courses that relate to a present or probable assignment at FMC. Tuition reimbursement is available to full-time employees who meet 
certain requirements when taking courses at accredited colleges 
and universities.
Technical Career Paths
Technology and innovation are critical to our business, and we have 
made a concerted effort to create an environment that develops relevant skills.
  
Supporting more women in STEM fields is 
a focus for FMC. At FMC Singapore, women scientists are advancing knowledge on 
liquid stabilizers and providing solutions to 
FMC customers across Asia and the globe.
fOSTerING 
CONTINUOUS IMPrOVeMeNT
The effort to enhance skills 
in diverse disciplines led to our Burton-upon-Trent site in 
Staffordshire, England, offering 
plant operators Food Manufacturing Excellence training. Through workshops that continue into 2014, participants will learn about 
effective teamwork, working safely, 
food safety, Six Sigma, process analysis, problem solving, and the Kaizen approach to continuous 
improvement. Asia 24%
EMEA 13%
Latin America 19%
North America 44%
5,600 employees globally as of 
December 31, 2013
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  15The FMC Technology Council’s mission is to foster greater 
innovation by:
  •  Leveraging cross-fertilization of technology and innovation 
      best practices.
  •  Establishing a strong intellectual property strategy.
  •  Setting directions for expanding science resources in rapidly 
      developing economies.
  •  Establishing proactive approaches to attracting, growing and 
      rewarding talent across the globe. 
In 2013, the Technology Council described the various positions 
and career directions available to employees through the Technical Professional Career Program. This roadmap is designed to empower employees to own and drive their development paths as 
well as to attract talented people to FMC. It provides a framework 
for consistent knowledge- and competency-building, performance reviews and understanding of FMC’s technical career opportunities.  
Manufacturing Career Paths
The Manufacturing Council is responsible for developing the 
processes, tools and talent that enable operational excellence at FMC manufacturing and contract manufacturing locations. It:
  •  Ensures effective management of talent across our enterprise.
  •  Identifies future leaders at early stages of their careers so they 
      can grow into broader roles.
  •  Prepares a slate of “ready-now” candidates to fill key
      manufacturing leadership positions. 
In 2013 the Manufacturing Council focused on preparing a strong 
pipeline of global manufacturing and engineering talent, a key component of which was to hold meetings at FMC locations globally to foster networking and relationship building. To get to know people from the different businesses who worked in these 
areas, the Council held both formal presentation sessions and 
informal meet-and-greets. The engagements allowed employees from around the world to meet and share ideas in person. POSTer CONTeST 
HIGHLIGHTS COLLAbOrATIVe CULTUre
We held the company’s second 
annual Science Poster Contest to capitalize on the talents and ideas 
of people in each of our businesses 
and to encourage company-wide collaboration. More than 100 FMC employees worldwide submitted entries for consideration by the Technology Council. Several 
participants demonstrated the 
power of cooperation as they applied resources and knowledge from inside and outside the scope of their specific businesses. The 
first-place poster, for example, 
was developed by a team from Agricultural Solutions that suggested a new use of alginates – a staple raw material used in Health 
and Nutrition.
We encourage employees to broaden their skills through a variety of programs. 
FMC’s Singapore office and laboratories are supporting the academic endeavors   of several employees through our Educational Assistance Program. See our    video to learn more about our initiatives in Singapore. 
10SINGAPORE F ACILITY
pUtS ACADeMIC eNRICHMeNt FRoNt AND CeNteR
16  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURETHeNG THeNG SIM
SeA DAIRY teCHNICAl MANAGeRCeCILIA NG
FooD teCHNoloGISt
continually seek the most qualified individuals to 
join our team, women are increasingly filling senior leadership positions throughout the company - on our Executive Committee, our Board of Directors and in key business and functional roles.  We have offered 
training internships to recent female graduates in the 
U.S., many of whom we were introduced to through a relationship with the Society of Women Engineers. We continue to monitor recruitment progress and Not interested in a desk-bound job, 
Cecilia knew early on that the active life of a lab was for her. She is expanding her managerial skills as she leads development of solutions for FMC customers.  Supporting young scientists is a key part of Theng’s job. She invests herself in their passion for good science and reminds them that by asking “why?” we provide more value to our customers.   
WOMeN
IN MANAGeMeNt
2012 2013
23.0%Percentage of women 
employed at FMC2012 2013
Globally 5.0% 6.1%
Non-Exempt 5.9% 8.4%
Hourly 2.3% 2.7%
Exempt 5.9% 6.4%VOLUNTArytURNoVeR RA te
(Voluntary resignations, divided by average 
total number of employees)
23.7%
19.5%Women in senior 
management* 21.3%26.2%Women in 
professional roles* 25.8%
*Exempt Workforce
Creating Global Consistency and Interaction
To foster collaboration, innovation, communication 
and movement across businesses and geographies, we began creating a more uniform employee experience. This effort represents an evolution toward greater consistency in role definitions, onboarding processes, fundamentals training, ongoing coaching 
and performance review standards around the world. 
Although we are in the early stages of creating this 
level of uniformity, we have achieved success with 
the immediate immersion of new employees and newly acquired businesses into our safety and ethics cultures.
Encouraging a Diverse Workplace
We rigorously screen internal and external candidates to match the best talent with each position and consider diversity a vital aspect of our strategy.  A gifted and diversified workforce enables us to compete more effectively in today’s complex global 
marketplace by attaining more balanced insights into 
stakeholder needs and a multiplicity of perspectives on new products, services and processes. 
One high priority element of FMC’s diversity 
emphasis is increasing representation of women in professional and leadership positions. As we Amongst our people, FMC counts many women 
scientists, engineers, managers, and office and trade professionals. Several of our leaders represented FMC
at the 2013 Society of Women Engineers Conference.
In 2013, FMC’s master data management project 
was expanded internationally, allowing us to better track turnover around the world. We continue to review turnover on a quarterly basis and our rates remain comparable or lower than local averages in our industry. Professional roles are defined by certain types of responsibilities or requirements, such as independent judgment and decision making that impact the business.
Senior management roles are a smaller subset of professional 
roles defined by more specific leadership criteria.
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  17CAILING ANG
FooD teCHNoloGISt
work to ensure that a diverse pool is considered for all positions. 
FMC’s Executive Committee reviews progress on a quarterly basis. 
Expanding the Talent Pool
In an environment where the demand exceeds the supply of technically-skilled workers, FMC encourages people to pursue science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education and careers. We offer scholarship programs in established and emerging markets where we have an expanding 
presence, such as Asia and other regions. 
For example, to raise awareness of FMC in a rapidly developing 
region and enrich our talent pipeline, we provided scholarships 
to four food engineering university students in Turkey. The scholarships, awarded for the third consecutive year, enable FMC to forge collaborative relationships with universities in Central and Eastern Europe and Turkey while helping support the students for the remainder of their studies. FMC is the first food ingredient supplier to sponsor this type of program in the region. 
To broaden global exchange, we launched corporate Facebook and 
LinkedIn pages. The FMC LinkedIn page, used to assist in talent recruiting, gained 16,000 new followers in 2013, up 63 percent 
from the year before. The use of social media is helping strengthen 
awareness of FMC and expanding engagement with our company worldwide. We expect to take further advantage of these and similar platforms as visibility and recruiting tools in the coming year. 
Advancing Sustainability Engagement 
Studies1 have shown that many people aspire to do work that has 
a direct and positive impact on the world. This desire is increasing in importance to both current and future generations and is linked to increased job satisfaction and engagement. To better assess employees’ understanding of FMC’s sustainability program and 
solicit suggestions for further engagement and involvement, FMC 
conducts an annual sustainability survey.
Our initial survey found there was enthusiasm for the program, but 
still room for progress. Based on the input received, in 2013 we: 
  •  Developed communications that encouraged employees to 
      utilize the  sustainability resources available on our intranet. ‘SCIeNCe Of 
CUrIOSITy’ INITIATIVe WINS AWA rD
An FMC initiative that helped 
science teachers motivate their students earned a Pepperpot Award 
from the Philadelphia chapter of 
the Public Relations Society of America (PRSA). “Teaching the Science of Curiosity” involved some 150 FMC employees who contributed materials and money 
to create 125 volcano-making kits 
that Philadelphia teachers used for hands-on experiments in the classroom. As many schools do not have the funding to carry out such 
activities themselves, opportunities 
for children to experience scientific exploration can be limited. The project exposed children to new areas of knowledge in a fun way 
and hopefully will inspire some to 
pursue STEM education. 
1 https://netimpact.org/whatworkerswant
FMC offered to support Cailing’s final year 
honors project with expert mentorship and lab time. After graduating, she took a part-time position at FMC and recently accepted an offer to become a full-time scientist.
IAN rObINSON
MARKetING AND CoMMeRCIAl 
DeVelopMeNt MANAGeR, ASIA
As a manager, Ian knows the value of mentorship and hands-on, practical learning for young staff and scientists at FMC.
18  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREjOyCe TOH
FooD teCHNoloGIStXIAOCHUN SHeN
INteRN
      In our second survey, employees reporting use of the 
      sustainability intranet as a primary information source       increased significantly.
  •  Disseminated a poster series demonstrating how employees 
      in the R&D, sales and marketing, legal, operations, and human       resources functions could “make a difference” in sustainability. 
  •  Provided Sustainability Implementation Teams with a 
      sustainability report toolkit to promote readership of the       report, answer questions and facilitate information-sharing with       customers, suppliers and other external stakeholders.
In our second survey conducted in late 2013, we were pleased to 
discover that 73 percent of respondents read at least part of the most recent sustainability report. However, we are challenged to grow this rate and to address survey responses that were either flat or slightly lower than the previous year. Given the high energy around the 2011 launch of our sustainability program, the slight decline in results is to be expected. We are working to ensure this is not a trend and that sustainability integration continues to progress.
Specifically, the survey results indicated the need for more 
information on the relationship of sustainability to employees’ jobs, training on how to advance our program with outside partners, SPArKING bIG 
IDeAS
To empower talent, encourage 
innovation, foster teamwork and promote awareness of 
sustainability, the Alkali Chemical 
business held its first Sustainability Idea Contest. The contest, created and coordinated by Alkali’s Sustainability Implementation 
Team, sought well-developed ideas 
with significant potential impact on sustainability.
Employee “inventors” worked 
individually and in teams across 
the spectrum of job functions 
and business locations. In total, they submitted more than 50 new ideas. Awards were given for the “best-defined idea” and the idea 
with the “greatest potential for 
significant impact.” Winning entries recommended:
  •  Lowering energy consumption 
      by installing natural gas       turbines, routing “waste” heat       to existing gas boilers, and       using steam generated for 
      electricity. 
  •  Reducing water use by 
      replacing regular shower heads       with high efficiency ones.
The first idea is being further 
reviewed and defined; the second will be implemented. Another winning idea remains undisclosed 
because it is being considered for 
patent protection. After the judging, contest winners received cash awards, as did six participants who 
were selected in a random drawing. 
Outreach 
posters, detailing 
department-
specific ways to impact sustainability, 
were distributed 
in multiple languages.xiaochun’s interest in food science stems 
from her love of baking and her health-conscious family. As a technical staff intern, she is gaining practical experience as she continues her university studies.
When presented with a doctoral study opportunity, Joyce was persuaded by her FMC managers to consider a part-time MSC instead. Through FMC sponsorship of her degree, Joyce was able to study while continuing her professional development.
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  1920122013and business-specific information on their team’s progress. 
Therefore, we will work on the following communications objectives throughout 2014:
  •  Continue to make sustainability relevant to employees and 
      their jobs.  
  •  Increase employee understanding of FMC’s sustainability    
      metrics, targets and progress.
  •  Provide tools to increase the effectiveness of sustainability 
      implementation teams.
We expect to pilot a focused training program in 2014 to help 
advance the objectives above.
Fostering a Culture of Wellness
Health and wellness programs help create a positive work culture 
which in turn contributes to employee satisfaction and well-being. 
FMC’s voluntary U.S. program “Choose Well, Live Well” provides 
an opportunity for employees and their family members to learn more about managing their health. Through the program FMC participants can take advantage of tools that encourage positive 
steps toward reducing health risks and improving personal well-
being. A new addition to the program in 2013 enables employees and their spouses to elect to work one-on-one with health coaches to address a range of issues from lifestyle challenges such as stress and weight management to chronic health conditions like arthritis and diabetes. FMC encourages and supports participation in certain programs through financial incentives.
  
Efforts to support healthy behaviors are evident at FMC locations 
around the world. In 2013, several locations ran health fairs and many invited members from their local community to join. Some sites initiated walking or weight competitions. More nutritious food choices were offered at several large global meetings as well as exercise activities such as yoga and Zumba classes.fUN, GAMeS AND 
WeLLNeSS IN SUzHOU
FMC’s site in Suzhou, China, held 
Autumn Fun Games to build team spirit and promote good health 
for employees. Ping pong, rope 
skipping and hula hooping were activities used to reinforce the plant’s goals of fostering a healthy lifestyle and team spirit. 
*APROSOJA
Brazilian Association of 
Soybean Producers – a non-profit entity comprised of rural soybean producers  Insect, weed and disease management 
      in soybean plantations
 7 Habits of Responsibility
 Business, including futures and commodity marketsIn 2013, FMC partnered with APROSOJA to provide 
training for 8 future professionals on:
BRAZIL 
pRoGRAMS
TALENT
To broaden global interchange, we continue to expand our social media presence.
+16,000
in 2013, up 63% from 2012SOCIAL MeDIA
followersThe use of social media is 
helping strengthen awareness of FMC and expanding engagement 
with our company worldwide.
20  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURELIGHTHeAr TeD 
TONe DeLIVerS 
SerIOUS eTHICS MeSSAGe
To highlight the importance of 
reporting any potential ethical issues, we produced an entertaining 
yet informative set of wallet cards 
and posters promoting the FMC Ethics Response Line and other ways to report possible infractions. Translated into 13 languages, the imagery and messages were 
tailored to accommodate cultural 
nuances. Attention-grabbing visuals such as the Loch Ness monster and a flying saucer helped communicate the serious need to report possible 
ethical improprieties without fear of 
retaliation. 
Maintaining Respect and Ethical Behavior
Affirming human dignity internally and across our value chain is 
a core value. In 2013 we expanded the Civil Treatment Program to managers throughout our global network – another step forward in becoming an ever-more inclusive and respectful workplace. We will expand the program throughout 2014 and will integrate it into the 
on-boarding process for all new employees. 
11
Additional activities that reinforced a culture of shared respect and 
ethical behavior included:
  •  Retraining and recertifying 97 percent of employees on the FMC 
      Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. The remaining 3 percent       are expected to complete the program in 2014 to ensure total       compliance with the Code. 
12
  •  Evaluating significant suppliers by Global Procurement based       on our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
13
  •  Initiating a Social Responsibility Program to increase       transparency into all aspects of business practices at our       manufacturing facilities. 
14
  •  Updating our social media policy to provide guidance on dealing       appropriately with the increasing intersection of one’s personal       and professional profiles. 
15
  •  Good faith collective bargaining in union relationships and       ongoing dialogue in non-union sites to facilitate trust       and collaboration. 
16
Enabling a Winning Team
We continue to nurture talent internally, encourage STEM-talented youth, explore ways to increase workforce diversity and promote employee health and wellness. We are firmly committed to creating a culture that facilitates professional and personal growth, satisfaction and well-being in an inclusive and ethical environment.
*RENOVAÇãO
In 2009, the state of São 
Paulo amended laws to phase out emissions from sugarcane waste burning practices.FMC, the sugarcane 
industry union and other 
production companies 
developed a training 
program to help rural 
workers become 
compliant with the law.Female participation in the program 
increased from 1.2% to 12%
*INTERNS
FMC partnered with 
our distributors to host 9 internships that identified key talent and developed technical and leadership skills.In 2013, trained 1,000 harvesters 
and family membersFrom 2009-2013, qualified 75,700 
workers in 30 courses
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  21GROWING
INNOVATIONS WITH A 
SUSTAINABLE ADVANTAGE
Zheng Chen, senior analytical 
chemist, conducts gas 
chromatography analysis in 
the Chemical Development 
Center at the FMC Asia 
Innovation Center in 
Shanghai, China.
Each of our businesses applies “the right chemistry” when 
developing new solutions. Our focus is on addressing customer 
needs and global challenges.
22  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE20112 0122 0132 0142 01536%50%% 47%57%
Prior to developing a new product or application 
for an existing product, FMC considers its potential sustainability impact. This establishes an inseparable link between innovation and sustainability. In 2013 we spent 57 percent of 
our total Research and Development (R&D) 
expenditures on projects that positively impact global challenges, exceeding our 2015 target of 50 percent.
Focused on Sustainability and Efficiency 
Each of our businesses has developed an assessment tool that determines if a project makes a positive impact on one or more of the five major global challenges FMC has identified. By using the assessment tool to analyze each project, our innovators must always consider ways to create new products that deliver positive benefits to society before initiating a project.
Our Agricultural Solutions business has developed 
a more comprehensive assessment tool to prioritize 
its R&D projects. This tool guides analysis of 
projects based on strategic value, innovation potential, financial contribution, risk exposure and sustainability. To be considered for development, a project must perform at a neutral or better level on the sustainability criteria compared to existing market solutions. 
17
Along with the efficiencies derived from screening potential projects through the tool, Agricultural Solutions streamlined communications between the global R&D and marketing groups to further maximize resources. Now the R&D and marketing 
groups meet quarterly to review their entire project 
portfolio and ensure it meets the criteria set out in the scorecard tool. Initial meetings and prioritizations in 2013 led to a 57 percent decrease in the number of products being worked on with hardly any loss of potential revenue.
Customer-Driven Innovation
FMC’s product development is shaped by the needs of our customers. By staying close to the people who use our products we are able to move quickly to create more effective ways to address geographically specific needs. These focused relationships are maintained at local and regional levels and contribute to our market differentiation. 
Hands-On Approach Yields Solutions
To strengthen engagement with and responsiveness 
to customers, we have “localized” much of our R&D 
function. We work directly with customers around the world to understand their concerns and then develop customized solutions based on their input. This is made possible through our diverse global research network. 
18
Our scientists establish hands-on relationships with customers. For example, in Turkey we provided training at our food labs and conducted joint trials with a major chocolate and candy manufacturer. During educational demonstrations, prototypes were 
prepared which showed the creamy texture and 
stability imparted by our microcrystalline cellulose (MCC). MCC comes from specialized cellulose sourced from sustainably harvested trees andadds texture to food products. At another training session attended by several leading confectionary manufacturers, the Istanbul Innovation Center hosted tutorials on natural colors and pectin. 
Globally, FMC is actively engaging its customers in 
developing product solutions. In the photo above, FMC staff members in Brazil tour a cotton field with customers.R&D Spend Targeted 
To Impact Major Global ChallengesIn 2013 we spent 57 percent of our total R&D expenditures on projects that positively impact global challenges, exceeding our 2015 target.
*57%
SHAPING THE
FUtURe
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  23Simultaneously we are finding ways to encourage 
dialogue, sharing and cross-fertilization of ideas. The FMC Asia Innovation Center (AIC) in Shanghai, China, opened in late 2013 and brings together approximately 200 scientists, technicians, sales and 
marketing, support and executive staff. By addressing 
the Asia-Pacific market from a central location, we expect to benefit from greater synergy and collaboration on product innovation and customer service. The AIC houses world-class food and pharmaceutical application laboratories where FMC customers can learn how to use our products in their formulations.  
Achieving Shared Objectives We believe that innovations that positively influence 
society will add to our success. Many of our 
customers share this belief, and together we are 
collaborating on product development to help achieve  customer sustainability targets as we pursue our own. For example: 
  •  A leading global consumer packaged goods 
      company is contributing to a lower carbon       footprint by using our natural soda ash instead       of the synthetic alternative in products, including       detergents and container glass. 
19
  •  Food companies in China are bringing better       nutrition to the population by adding FMC       products that improve shelf life, stability and       texture of beverages. Successes include use of       our products in protein drinks, peanut milk, teas 
      and coffee mixes. 
20
  •  A European health products company used our 
      Nutricol® HN Glucomannan to develop a weight 
      management product that fosters feelings of a full       stomach. With so many people overweight or The AIC brings together 200 
scientists, technicians, sales and marketing, support and executive staff.
Dedicated
Airplane Spray Mix DistributionDedicatedTruck Spray Mix DistributionShanghai, China
Tecnocalda, FMC Brazil’s chemical handling and storage 
system for large agribusinesses, helps customers manage chemicals in a more economical and sustainable way. The program supports sustainability by facilitating safer and more efficient product preparation, reduction in packaging 
waste, more accurate inventory systems for better control 
and theft avoidance, and compliance with pesticide legislation. 
21TeCNOCALDA
Pesticide 
Storage and Inventory ControlASIA
INNoVA tIoN CeNteR
24  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE      obese and the numbers projected to increase, this product may 
      help alleviate food cravings and may play a role in helping curb       weight gain. 
  •  In cooperation with a German manufacturer of sausage casing 
      technology, we developed alginate-based sausage casings that       perform better on their equipment than any other casing       system in the market. FMC is being granted a patent for the 
      casing in the U.S. and has additional patent applications 
      underway. Potential customers began conducting trials with the       system in 2013.
  •  In North America, our Agricultural Solutions group examined 
      customer container size preferences and buying patterns       to identify products that could be more efficiently packaged by       changing to larger size product containers. This effort to “right-      size” containers delivers products in a more economical, less       resource-intensive way. 
Building Health and Nutrition Solutions
As consumers continue to look for products that improve their health and well-being, FMC is exploring ways to address those demands by developing more sustainable and renewable products while increasing the use of natural ingredients.  
Expansion in Nutraceuticals  
Consumer interest in nutraceuticals, products derived from food 
sources that provide extra health benefits, has grown rapidly in recent years. FMC strengthened our investment in this area with the acquisition of Epax
®, the world’s leading producer of 
premium-grade, omega-3 fish oils. Clinical research shows that the key omega-3 ingredients, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) may help support heart, eye and brain functions.  
The world’s seafood supply is challenged by overfishing that can 
lead to food shortages and collapse of ecosystems. With some 80 
percent of our fish oil derived from anchovies, FMC has worked 
to ensure the longevity of this fish stock and has required all of 
our anchovy suppliers to be certified by Friends of the Sea. This 
certification affirms these suppliers meet sustainable fishery and 
aquaculture standards. We also work with governments to foster species protection. 
EPAX®
In 2013 we acquired Epax, the 
world’s leading producer of premium-grade omega-3 fish oils.Key omega-3 ingredients offer health benefits for brain, heart and eye functions.  *BRAIN, HEART
& EYE
Many of our newly developed 
products require animal testing as a condition of regulatory approval 
by government agencies. FMC 
takes animal testing seriously and strives to limit such testing. We have had several discussions with an animal rights organization, 
People for the Ethical Treatment 
of Animals (PeTA), over the past year on alternative animal testing methods and strategies for 
using other scientifically relevant 
information to negate the need for additional animal testing. In 2013 we published an Animal Welfare and Testing Policy that defined our 
guiding principles and commitment 
to the “3 Rs” of animal testing: 
22
  •  Replace animal tests with       alternative methods when       feasible.
  •  Reduce the number of animal 
      tests when feasible.
  •  Refine animal test methods to 
      make them as humane 
      as possible.COMMITTeD TO 
ANIMAL WeLf AreSituated in a traditional marine and 
fishery area, the Epax production facility in Ålesund, Norway, continues a long local 
history in producing excellent and superior 
quality products from the sea.
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  25Protasea™ Fucoidan
Drawing from our 65-plus years of 
experience in sustainably harvested seaweeds, FMC developed Protasea 
Fucoidan, a Norwegian brown 
seaweed polysaccharide extract. We submitted a new dietary ingredient notification that was accepted in the United States. To our knowledge, 
this is the only fucoidan available 
on the market that has completed this process. LeVerAGING OUr 
eXPerIeNCe WITH NATUreOur manufacturing technology is highly efficient and recovers 
nearly 100 percent of available DHA and EPA. In 2013, we added new capacity to our site in Seal Sands, United Kingdom, based on simulated moving bed chromatography – the most efficient means known to concentrate EPA and DHA, affording higher yields 
and greater purity than any other known purification technology. 
Production from this facility will be used to produce omega-3 for the pharmaceutical industry and ultra high omega-3 concentrates for nutraceutical products. We are also considering the feasibility of using fish oil byproducts as biofuel to maximize use of our resources and minimize fuel consumption. 
Growth in Pharmaceuticals
In 2012, FMC launched our SeaGel
® soft capsule product – a 
vegetarian alternative to animal-derived gelatin products. SeaGel 
capsules are more heat resistant than gelatin capsules, helping to 
minimize the problems of capsules sticking together if the product is shipped and stored in warmer climates. Sales of SeaGel capsules nearly tripled in 2013 as demand grows.
Advancing Biological Alternatives
FMC is looking to nature for guidance in advancing agricultural 
solutions. It is through this lens that we are exploring biologicals – 
materials derived from renewable plant and/or microbial sources. 
Biologicals improve soil health, foster seed germination, increase growth of plants, allow for better management of nutrients, fight diseases and insects and increase crop resistance to stressed environmental conditions. This direction complements our continued exploration and production of synthetic agricultural solutions which together with biologicals form the basis of a successful integrated crop management strategy. (See graphic at right).
 
As we expand our capabilities as a unified BioSolutions business, our team focuses its research on real customer needs. The biological discovery platform begins with “smart selection,” an 
approach that brings customer-driven innovation to life and 
allows for rapid response to emerging concerns. The location of 
our new Center of Excellence for Agricultural BioSolutions on the 
Campus of RTI International in North Carolina’s Research Triangle 
Park lets us access unique technical skills available at a leading research institute, world class universities, global businesses and 
technology start-ups. 
Maquiberry
Maquiberry fruit is one of the 
most concentrated sources of natural antioxidants. The fruit’s 
color is used to dye natural textile 
fibers like cotton and hemp, and in some countries its juice may be used to improve the color of wines and other beverages. 
FMC has concentrated the juice 
from maquiberries to produce a highly purified product called MaQBerry
®, which contains high 
levels of anthocyanins that may boost the antioxidant capacity 
of several functional foods and 
nutritional supplements. *3XSales of SeaGel 
capsules nearly tripled in 2013 as demand grew.vegetarian alternative to animal-
derived gelatin products
more heat resistant than gelatin 
capsules, minimizing the problems of capsules sticking together
SEAGEL®
CApSUleS
26  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURESHAPING THe fUTUre 
Of bIOSOLUTIONS
Two strategic transactions added strong competencies in biologicals to the Agricultural Solutions portfolio.
FMC formed an exclusive, global strategic alliance 
with Chr. Hansen, a leading company in biosciences 
and its applications. CAEB’s rich product pipeline, 
which is in various stages of development, feeds directly into Chr. Hansen’s fermentation 
manufacturing capabilities.
These R&D relationships enable us to build a comprehensive portfolio that includes world-class, end-to-end 
biological platforms. They build on our traditional strengths in synthetic crop protection chemistries, allow 
for leadership in the fast-growing biological market and advance our ongoing evolution toward better crop 
management and protection systems using both biological and synthetic products. We acquired the Center for Agricultural and 
Environmental Biosolutions (CAEB) from RTI 
International. The acquisition included extensive 
intellectual property in sustainable agriculture, strong capabilities in conducting field trials and a world-
renowned scientific team leading the R&D effort. 
BIOSOLUTIONS ALLIANceTHe
DIScOVeRY AND 
ScReeNING
FeRMeNTATION AND 
PRODUcTION
FORMULATION AND 
MARKeT AcceSS
Finding sustainable solutions 
for growers and consumers
Reducing 
reliance on traditional chemicalsOvercoming pest resistance 
to chemical 
formulationsFocused on 
consumers, who 
want environmentally 
friendly products   Responding to 
farmers’ demand for higher yields on less land
Innovating 
using multiple 
modes of 
action
Helping 
plants 
strengthen 
their 
natural 
defensesThe BioSolutions Alliance is...
FMc + cHR. HANSeN
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  27Influencing the Future of Transportation
Currently 3.5 percent of all automobiles are electrified in some way 
and use lithium ion batteries. Although electric vehicles (EVs) show great promise in the battle to cut carbon emissions worldwide, consumer adoption is slower than anticipated. Nonetheless, leading EV manufacturers and some industry analysts believe that EVs’ 
environmental and economic advantages eventually will accelerate 
consumer adoption.  
23
As one of the world’s largest and most innovative lithium suppliers, FMC is an active participant in the effort to encourage EV use. We have a leading market share in advanced technologies for EVs and remain at the forefront of innovation with breakthroughs that extend EV driving range and battery longevity.
In addition to helping power EVs, FMC’s lithium solutions are used 
to make synthetic rubber for more fuel-efficient “green” tires. 
Although these tires have better gas mileage performance, we are 
challenged by the significant amount of waste generated in the production process. We have made marginal improvements in this area and continue to explore waste reduction opportunities.
Measuring and Reducing Impact
Life Cycle Analysis 
To gain greater awareness of the impacts caused by production 
of specific FMC products, we initiated a life cycle analysis (LCA) program. An LCA quantifies a specific product’s environmental impacts throughout the resource chain.  
In 2013, FMC performed an LCA of SeaGel
® capsule technology 
from our Health and Nutrition business, and clomazone, one of 
our key active herbicide ingredients from Agricultural Solutions. Results are being used to understand at what stages in the development and manufacturing process our products have the 
largest opportunity for impact.
Process Innovation
Discovering innovative ways to make our operations more 
environmentally friendly and cost effective are high priorities. This is especially true in mining, where FMC is deriving significant 
LITHIUM
We are at the forefront of 
innovation with breakthroughs that extend EV driving range and battery longevity.0000+
GIVING eVs THe 
CHArGe THey NeeD
FMC participated in a multi-year 
project to study how Stabilized Lithium Metal Powder (SLMP) in 
lithium ion batteries could reduce 
costs and increase energy density. Lithium ion batteries are used in most of today’s hybrid, plug-in hybrid and all-electric vehicles 
(EVs). The research was conducted 
as part of the Integrated Laboratory Research Program sponsored by the Department of Energy Vehicle 
Technology Office in partnership with 
two national laboratories – Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory  – and SAFT, a lithium battery 
manufacturer. The team found that 
incorporating SLMP into lithium batteries enhanced performance, increased capacity and would be able to meet requirements for EV 
batteries in the future. Both labs 
have been recognized in 2014 for their significant contributions to SLMP research and accelerating integration of SLMP into the 
commercial production of lithium 
ion batteries. Future research will focus on validation and commercial application of the technology.
FMC’s patented directional drilling technique for solution 
mining allows for greater resource cultivation while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. There are also water resources savings throughout the solution mining process.0000+
SOLUTION MINING
28  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREbenefits through solution mining at our Green River, Wyoming, 
facility. Using secondary recovery process technology, we inject recycled water into the old mine workings and then pump that water back to the surface. This process substantially improves the recovery of trona ore that remained after traditional dry mining.  
We continually look for ways to improve our extraction technology. 
FMC recently partnered with a local university to conduct tests that would increase our understanding of hydrodynamic behavior in our solution mining. Testing results are being used to maximize trona recovery, allowing us to minimize energy consumption in our soda ash production process. 
Connecting R&D to Sustainability Values  
Our solutions, the chemistry behind them and the processes we 
have put in place have the potential to positively influence major global challenges. By aligning product and process R&D with 
sustainability, moving toward deeper cooperation with customers 
and measuring progress on our research goals, we expect innovation to continue shaping solutions for the future. FMC’s recent acquisitions have 
brought more to the company than opportunities for growth in new 
markets in health and agriculture. The 
bright minds of Daniel van der Lelie, Safiyh Taghavi and Baldur Hjaltason are now part of the FMC team.
Daniel van der Lelie, Ph.D., M.B.A., 
and Safiyh Taghavi, Ph.D., are pioneers in environmental microbiology with over 20 years of research in the field. They join FMC as the Global Director for Biological Research, and Fellow 
and Head of the Center of Excellence 
for Agricultural BioSolutions (CEAB), respectively, where they are working to advance agricultural and biotechnology research on plant-
microbe interactions to enable a wide 
range of commercial applications.  Before their time at the CEAB, Daniel van der Lelie and Safiyh Taghavi  
developed new genomic tools to study 
the functioning of microorganisms. Their research has appeared in more than 130 publications and peer-reviewed journals, including 
Nature, Nature Chemistry, Nature 
Biotechnology and PLoS Genetics. 
Baldur Hjaltason, Senior Fellow 
and Manager at Epax, is an industry 
veteran and top expert on trends and 
science in omega-3s. Hjaltason was recently presented with the 2014 Global Organization for EPA and DHA Omega-3 (GOED) Industry Leadership 
Award. His work at GOED has brought 
together a multitude of stakeholders in the omega-3 industry to advance the industry while preserving and 
protecting quality omega-3 sources.   
Hjaltason has also published thought leadership through papers and book chapters on omega-3s.PIONeerS IN 
THeIr fIeLD
Chemical analysts Jie Luan, Bryan Kong and Susan xu conduct a 
regulatory study in the Chemical Development Center at the FMC Asia Innovation Center in Shanghai, China.Production
Old Dry Mine WorkingsContainment Pond Recycled Water Stream
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  29MINDING OUR
MANAGING RESOURCES FOR 
GREATER EFFICIENCY
FMC is committed to responsible management of scarce resources – 
one of the major global challenges that we can influence. As a principal source 
of sodium carbonate, trona ore 
is a raw material that is in high 
demand.  FMC is committed to 
mining this resource safely and 
with increasing efficiency.
30  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURECriteria Pollutant Int ensityTotal Criteria Pollutant Emissions
(Ktons of PM, NO x, SO x, CO, VOCs H2S) 
2011 2012 201305101520
3.03.54.04.55.0Total Ene rgy Usage (Millions MMBTU)
Energ yIntensity
2011 2012 201301020304050
46810
rOCKLAND SITe
TO SWITCH frOM fUeL OIL TO COMPreSSeD NATUrAL GASAs a specialty chemical solutions company, FMC’s environmental 
performance affects our own footprint as well as our customers’. We are working to reduce our own environmental impact and that of others in our supply chain. 
Measurement and Transparency 
FMC measures and monitors our environmental impacts to better assess opportunities for improvement. Our primary focus includes energy utilization, greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste management. We have established key performance indicators (KPIs) for each of these areas and report quarterly to senior 
management on progress.
FMC is expanding the scope of the data provided for 2013 to 
encompass both our direct impacts and those that are material 
to our business and where we have influence. To this end, our selected 2013 and historical performance now includes contract manufacturers for Agricultural Solutions that make our active ingredients. These manufacturers are significant partners in our supply chain and they produce material amounts of waste. For increased transparency we have also added information on high volume/low toxicity materials resulting from FMC operations.  
The Peroxygens business became a discontinued part of FMC 
operations in third quarter of 2013. As a result, we do not include 
that business in any 2013 results and have removed historical data 
so that year-to-year information is comparable.
Impact Reduction and Productivity Initiatives
We have implemented several initiatives to increase our operational 
efficiencies and manage our sustainability performance.
Energy Management
FMC has always focused on energy management and for years our 
facilities have implemented energy efficiency projects. Yet we are convinced there are additional energy savings opportunities still to be explored. To gain fresh perspectives on these possibilities we launched our Energy Management Center of Excellence (EMCOE) in 2012. 
24
The mission of EMCOE is to drive continuous improvement in energy management and efficiency across all FMC facilities. This team is partnering with plant staff and consultants to 
systematically identify ways to reduce 
energy and carbon intensity at our manufacturing facilities. We conduct energy audits at select sites and use the findings to identify and implement new energy saving initiatives. We also share best practices that could be adopted at other FMC facilities. In 2012 we began a project to 
convert the Rockland, Maine, facility 
from No. 6 fuel oil to compressed 
natural gas. Throughout the 2013 planning process we conducted extensive reviews with community representatives to obtain their 
input and views. We anticipate that 
the changeover – which will be completed in 2014 – will reduce greenhouse gases by 33 percent, particulate emissions by 90 percent 
and other emissions by even more. 
GLOBAL ENERGY USAGe
AIs FMCFMC 
IntensityFMC + AIsFMC only – AIs not includedGLOBAL CRITERIA
Ktons Ton/KtonAI = Agricultural 
Solutions active 
ingredient 
contract manufacturers
FMC energy intensity remained 
essentially constant versus 2012.  FMC’s 2013 intensity of criteria emissions increased 
4% versus 2012. This was mainly due to combustion 
inefficiencies at our lithium operation in Argentina. 
The site is focusing on improving this metric in 2014.LeGeND fOr  
eNVIrONMeNTAL 
GrAPHS
Intensity = Total amount of specific 
operational 
measure/total tons of productionpollUt ANt eMISSIoNS
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  31Total Water Use (Billions of gall ons)
Water Int ensity
2011 2012 201301234567
0.00.51.01.52.0
012345
0.00.51.01.52.0Total GHG Emissions (Mtons CO2e)
GHG Intensity
2011 2012 2013
reNeWAbLe 
eNerGy POWerS fMC SITeS
Renewable energy is a key source of 
power at our Argentina and Iceland facilities. The Minera del Altiplano 
site high in the Andes Mountains 
uses solar evaporation ponds as a primary part of its lithium production process. The Iceland seaweed processing facility (below) 
capitalizes on the heat generated 
from geothermal underground pools for 100 percent of its energy. In 2013, the cross-functional EMCOE team and third-party experts 
completed audits of two manufacturing sites: Rockland, Maine, and Milazzo, Italy. These sites were selected for pilot analyses because they are at different stages of energy monitoring and management, and as such, the results could provide information on the range of 
energy savings that might exist across FMC. Based on the audit 
results and cost/benefit assessments, we began implementation of several projects including repair of compressed air leaks and the installation of three heat recovery boilers, variable-frequency drives, piping and tank insulation, and programmable controls. The next audit will be conducted in 2014 at our largest operation and energy consuming facility in Green River, Wyoming.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Our natural soda ash mining and processing operation in Green 
River consumes the largest share of FMC’s energy usage and generates the most greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). Our GHG emissions include both those occurring from fuel use, as well as process emissions – naturally occurring emissions released during the mining and processing of natural soda ash. FMC’s 2013 GHG emission intensity decreased 3 percent due to lower process emissions at this facility.
We will conduct an EMCOE audit in 2014 to find new ways to 
decrease Green River’s energy and greenhouse gas emissions. However, it is important to note that production of natural soda 
ash from our Wyoming site already uses 40 percent less energy 
and produces about 40 percent less GHG than production of the alternative synthetic soda ash. 
25
Water Management
In 2013, FMC’s water intensity increased 5 percent versus 2012. The 
Green River site is our largest consumer of water, where in addition to use in solution mining, water sources are used to remove naturally occurring impurities that enter our process with the trona ore. We collect this process water in a containment lake, allowing us to recover any remaining soda ash value. Process water from 
the containment lake is also used as an extremely energy-efficient 
GLOBAL GHG eMISSIoNS
AIs FMCFMC 
IntensityFMC + AIs(includes both direct and indirect emissions)
GLOBAL WATER USAGe
AIsFMC KGal/TnFMC + AIs(excludes once-thru cooling water)
FMC Total
Greenhouse gas intensity decreased 3 percent primarily due to 
decreased process emissions at our Green River facility.FMC’s water intensity increased 5 percent. The increase was 
driven by drought conditions at our Green River site which 
necessitated increased water intake to maintain the proper 
water level in its containment lake.
32  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURELand Disposal
20%
Incineration
7%
Recyc le
30%Treatment
42%Other
1%
0102030405060708090100
051015202530Total Waste by Type* (Ktons )
Waste Intensity
2011 2012 2013
source of cooling capacity versus energy-intensive 
mechanical chillers. However, the lake depends on natural precipitation for level maintenance. With continued drought conditions in the Western United 
States, the containment lake reached critically 
low levels in 2013 and additional water intake was necessary to maintain the appropriate lake level. This maintenance was the primary driver for FMC’s increased water intensity in 2013.
It is well recognized that major global shifts involving 
population growth and climate change are creating substantial concerns about water availability. To understand FMC’s exposure and to determine how to mitigate potential risks, we conducted a Water Risk 
Assessment (WRA) that cross-referenced water use 
details from our manufacturing sites with the World Resources Institute’s “Aqueduct” water mapping tool. Based on those results, we analyzed the potential water source risk for our manufacturing sites, our Agricultural Solutions contract manufacturers and key suppliers. 
The WRA identified nine FMC facilities in water 
stressed areas with significant water dependency but only two – Green River, Wyoming, and Minera del Altiplano, Argentina – indicated future potential 
water instability. We are confident that we have 
adequate water availability in the near term. As a result of these findings we are working to better understand each situation and develop conservancy and contingency strategies to ensure long-term availability. 
In addition, to ensure that potential water risks 
are considered in all future investment decisions, the WRA is being integrated into FMC’s long-term corporate planning. It will factor into decisions involving mergers and acquisitions and the Capital Deployment Process.Waste Reduction
FMC’s 2013 waste intensity increased by 11 percent 
versus 2012. This was driven primarily by increased 
waste shipments from our Bessemer City, North 
Carolina, location in 2013 versus 2012. One of 
the site’s large volume by-products could not be 
distributed in a timely manner due to demand 
fluctuations necessitating disposal. Other significant factors included increased focus on elimination of out-of-service equipment and materials across all of our sites and, and in some cases, tighter cross-contamination standards leading to increased rinsing of equipment and resulting wastewater.
Our decision to include Agricultural Solutions 
active ingredients contract manufacturers in our results also has a significant impact on waste. FMC employees work closely with these partners to continuously improve process yields and reduce 
waste intensity.  In 2013, several significant reduction 
projects were implemented, including:
  •  Modification of process routes for several key 
      active ingredients to improve overall yields and       reduce waste loading.
Containment lake at the FMC Green River site in 
Wyoming, United States.
GLOBAL WASTE BY tYpe
AI Total 
(all types)FMC Hazardous FMC Total Waste Intensity
FMC + AI Total Waste IntensityFMC Industrial
FMC Non-hazardous
GLOBAL WASTE BY DeStINA tIoN
Includes FMC hazardous, non-hazardous and 
industrial waste only. (AI data not included)
FMC will perform a detailed waste assessment project 
in 2014.  We expect this project to inform our strategy for 
waste reduction and decreasing waste-to-landfill.FMC’s 2013 waste intensity increased by 11 percent vs. 2012. This 
was driven by lower demand for a large volume by-product produced 
by one of our sites in 2013, necessitating disposal of the material. 
2013 waste intensity is still 20 percent lower than 2011 levels.
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  33  •  Improvement in recovery of solvent streams and 
      spent catalyst materials.
  •  Implementation of a system to recover a key raw
      material from a waste gas stream.
  •  Elimination of packaging material by converting 
      material supplied in drums to bulk supplied       material.
In addition to more standard waste types, processing 
of trona ore and seaweed results in high-volume/low-toxicity materials that must be disposed of or re-used. Volumes of these materials are associated 
with production as they are largely unused portions of 
a raw material being processed. We work to minimize the amount of material going to landfills and seek beneficial applications whenever possible.
  •  Processing of trona ore results in large 
      amounts of excess inert shale (rock). FMC       produced approximately 866,000 tons of       this material in 2013. Additionally, production of       steam and electricity required to process trona 
      ore generated approximately 44,000 tons of boiler 
      ash. We use the following hierarchy to determine       how best to dispose of the materials:
        
  Continued use in the process (this allows us to 
            recover any remaining alkaline value).
          Return shale to its place of origin – 
            underground in formerly mined areas.        
  Manage on-site via a well-engineered storage 
            area that is regularly inspected by regulators.
  •  FMC repurposes bio-solids at each of our Health 
      and Nutrition production sites that generate       them. Rather than going to a landfill, the       materials are used for practical applications       including:
        
  Composting the material
          Use in organic fertilizers
          Soil conditioning  or ‘landfarming’
          Cattle feed supplements  The chart below shows the total amounts of bio-
solids produced and their final destination: 
Manufacturing Improvements
FMC’s Manufacturing Excellence (ME) program, 
launched in 2012, drives sustainability and safety improvements in key performance metrics and encourages long-term changes in organizational culture. While each project may address different areas of manufacturing, they all build on an integrated three-phase process: pre-assessment, analysis and implementation. 
ME projects were completed at three sites in 2013:
 
  •  
Green River : We developed and implemented 
      safety and productivity systems and processes 
      at pilot portions of the site that are expected to       accelerate both safety and operational progress.       Initial ME results included: 
Martin McQuaide (left) and Bob Davis assemble a pump to 
ensure optimal operation at the FMC Health and Nutrition manufacturing facility in Newark, Delaware, United States.In 2011, FMC Brazil began offering its line of Green 
Jugs. The manufacturing of these products generates less greenhouse gas emissions than traditional plastic packaging. They represent the next generation in sugar-based bioplastic packaging solutions.
Soil Conditioning 91%
Other (compost, 
organic fertilizer, cattle feed) 6%
Landfill 3%SUSTAINABLE p ACKAGING
*GROWING plAStICS
Cane 
SugarStalks of 
Sugar Cane
Sugar Cane
JuiceSugar
Ethanol
 Family
34  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE          Managing facility operations at optimal 
            production run rates.   
          Increased visibility into reporting systems 
            enabling faster, more insightful process             operations decision-making.        
  Increased interaction and response time 
            with less equipment downtime through             new communications involving the             maintenance, production and other             departments at the shop floor level. 
  •  
Bessemer City, North Carolina : We restructured 
     operations and reconfigured job functions, 
     resulting in a number of new opportunities 
     for employees. Unfortunately it also involved a 
     reduction in staff as we needed to leverage      long-term efficiencies and increase accountability      throughout the workforce. In the reconfigured           organization, all employees are gaining a better      understanding of the processes in which they      are involved and are leveraging technology more      effectively while maintaining a high focus on safety      in the work environment. 
  •  
Haugesund, Norway : The process at Haugesund 
      focused on getting in place the right structure, 
      processes and systems for safe, effective and       efficient sourcing and production. Highlights       include:
        
  Installation of a data focused culture to 
            drive improved rates and yields. This 
            production workstream proved the most             challenging, as significant operational             knowledge had been lost due to retirements 
            and turnover in recent years and there were 
            equipment failures throughout the project. The             site is finally starting to see results as rates,             quality and customer satisfaction have all             improved considerably and process knowledge             has deepened due to the changes.        
  Development of a new organizational design  
            to ensure effective operational oversight and             cross-departmental alignment.         
  An upgraded maintenance system that 
            focuses on preventative rather than reactive             maintenance.         
  A supply chain analysis to increase efficiency 
            of our seaweed harvesting system. 
Agricultural Solutions is planning to implement ME at 
two sites in 2014: Wyoming, Illinois, and Middleport, New York. 
Effective Financial Decision-Making We are transforming our Finance group into a 
globally integrated organization capable of supporting a growing and diverse enterprise. The initial design phase of the project began in 2013 and over the long term will address: 
  •  Enhanced scalability with redesigned systems to 
      help improve organizational efficiency.
  •  Increased value from partnerships 
      between Finance and the businesses by       enhancing areas such as financial planning       and analysis.
  •  Fostering career opportunities and professional 
      development to build organizational strength       within the function.
The Capital Deployment Process (CDP) developed 
in 2013 establishes a methodical framework for evaluating capital investments including sustainability criteria. It raises specific questions about impacts To answer customers’ needs, in 2013 FMC introduced the 
Double Green jug. This solution features an inner layer of nylon for use with solvent-based products and its stackable design eliminates 172 kilotons of cardboard packaging.
Doug Wasson, an operator at FMC’s Green River 
bicarbonate plant, focuses on ensuring optimal 
production in a safe working environment.
*CUSTOMER SOLUTION
(Re)p ACKAGeD
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  35on stakeholder interests and the major global challenges FMC has 
defined. (See page 6 for more information.)
CDP takes into account how sustainability will be incorporated throughout a project’s development and execution phases using metrics on resource intensities, efficiencies derived and long-term impacts through the project’s life cycle. In 2013, it was applied to selected capital planning projects greater than $2 million. In 
2014, it will be applied to all projects over $2 million and selected 
projects greater than $500,000 will go through a “light” version of the process. One goal of the process is to make more informed, quantifiable decisions about a project’s sustainability risks and benefits. 
Legacy Remediation 
As a company with an operating history of over a century, 
FMC has a number of legacy sites we are working to remediate. Our remediation strategy emphasizes community engagement when determining the best way to return former sites to productive use. 
26
Responsible Value Chain Partners
Sustainability at FMC extends into productive collaboration with 
our value chain partners – especially customers and suppliers. We work together on programs that drive greater responsibility, accountability and transparency. 
Customer Relationships
As meaningful partners, we seek ways to help our customers 
meet their own sustainability goals. For example, knowing that key customers wanted more information about social responsibility in their supply chains, we developed a Social Responsibility Assessment (SRA) program. Created in partnership with a third-party audit firm, the SRA assesses performance of our sites on environmental, health, safety, labor and other aspects of our business. 
Our first SRAs were conducted at Health and Nutrition sites 
because of their strategic importance to the interests of end consumers. We concluded two SRAs in 2013 at our Newark, Delaware, and Rockland, Maine, locations. Results have been positive thus far, with only one finding that was quickly corrected.  
We are planning to undertake five more audits in 2014 and are 
working to expand the program into selected parts of our supply chain.frONT rOy AL 
fOrGeS fOr WArD
At the Avtex Fibers Superfund 
Site in Front Royal, Virginia, FMC is completing over 20 years of 
remedial construction activities. 
The cleanup of the historical plant area provides land for a business development area encompassing approximately 170 acres and 
the creation of open space in 
the remaining areas, including a conservation park. Within the conservation area is a brand new water treatment plant to treat the contaminated groundwater. 
 
The conservation park created by FMC contains areas which were once waste disposal basins and are now open fields and ponds 
that provide a habitat for the ever 
increasing biodiversity in the area.  Warm season grasses native to Virginia were planted to help return 
this area to much the same state 
that existed hundreds of years ago, albeit with access to walking and bicycle trails.
Before
AfterNew supplier Code of Conduct and 
screening process are launchedFMC Supplier 
Code of 
ConductSince launch in 2012, all new 
suppliers are subject to the screening process and must adhere to the Code.
2012
SHAPING SUPPLIER
RelA tIoNSHIpS
36  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURESupplier Relationships
FMC believes that responsible corporate citizenship 
extends to our suppliers’ business practices. 
In 2012 FMC published its first Supplier Code of 
Conduct and updated our vendor management process to ensure that our raw material suppliers and contractors sourced responsibly and provided the best value and support to our businesses and communities. 
27
  •  Since publication in 2012, new suppliers       are required to adhere to the Code and have gone       through our screening and verification process       prior to joining our network. 
  •  By the end of 2013 all of our most significant, 
      existing raw material suppliers were also       screened against our criteria. We identified these       initial suppliers based on the types of material       they supply, if they were the sole source of a       material, or if there were other areas of concern 
      such as geographic sensitivity. 
  •  In addition to continuing to use the criteria for 
      new suppliers, in 2014 our goal is to requalify 
      all of FMC’s existing raw material suppliers       and significant construction contractors who       were working with us before the process was       enacted. Given the large number of suppliers, a       third-party auditor will undertake this       screening process. 
Looking ahead, we will leverage our management 
practices around responsible sourcing to manage supply risk and opportunities, continue to work with our supply chain partners to integrate our processes into site policies and work closely with suppliers to 
improve practices and drive innovation.
Regulatory Compliance 
To ensure FMC’s compliance with the reporting 
requirements of the U.S. Dodd–Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act and to 
FMC Lithium’s Lectro® Max line of customized lithium foils 
is used as the anode in lithium batteries. Lithium, being 
both the lightest and the most electronegative, provides the 
highest electrochemical equivalence of all metals.improve management of potential supplier risk, we 
established processes to trace materials through our supply chain. Our efforts included the development of a Conflict Mineral Policy, obtaining technical data on the composition of our materials to understand if they 
contain conflict minerals, and conducting further due 
diligence with our suppliers to understand country of origin for materials containing tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold.
In May 2014, FMC filed its report on capital Form SD 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission, as required under the Dodd-Frank Act. 
Sharing Responsibility for Resource 
Management
FMC’s resource management projects are elements 
of a systematic effort to enhance visibility into and influence the impact we have on the environment and our stakeholders. We are taking steps to identify, analyze and act on opportunities to use 
natural resources more efficiently and to reduce 
our environmental footprint. We are strengthening collaboration with members of our value chain to deal effectively with some of the world’s most challenging issues. Significant, existing raw material 
suppliers are screened against vendor management process.
2013How does FMC define 
“significant” suppliers?
 Type of material
 Sole source of material
 Geographically sensitiveAll existing raw material suppliers and significant construction contractors will be requalified.
2014GOAL
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  37CULTIVATING
SHARING IN THE FUTURE 
OF OUR COMMUNITIES
FMC is taking action to be a positive force in the communities 
where we live and work. FMC employees from 
Philadelphia volunteered 
at the Cradles to Crayons 
Backpack-a-thon where 
company-provided school 
supplies were stuffed 
into more than 22,000 
backpacks for students 
in need.
38  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE2011 20122 0132 0142 0154990
8083
Our focus includes engagement with neighbors, dedication to 
product stewardship worldwide and remaining a committed employer in the communities where we operate. 
28
Biodiversity and Stewardship 
FMC firmly believes that business growth and ecological responsibility are compatible goals. We monitor and mitigate our potential impacts on wildlife and engage with our stakeholders about protecting nature and biodiversity.  
Protecting Natural HabitatsAt our facilities in Green River, Wyoming, we are working 
proactively to protect local species and their habitats. For example, we are committed to protecting the Greater Sage-grouse, a bird that is a candidate species for listing as threatened or endangered within the U.S. Endangered Species Act.  
Our site is helping to stabilize the species in Wyoming by partnering 
with local landowners, government and community stakeholders 
on a long-term conservation effort. The effort has three primary components:
  •  Improving understanding of local Sage-grouse habitat 
      utilization and population trends through various inventories       and counts, including the installation of trail cameras. These       activities will enable a more exact understanding of the species’       population trends to help further focus conservation efforts.
  •  Habitat restoration and enhancement.  •  Ongoing minimization of our impact. For example, looking 
      critically at location and design of temporary and permanent       roads and structures.SAfeGUArDING 
WyOMING’S WILDLIfe
To reduce unintended harm to 
animals near our Green River mining facility, FMC converted 
two miles of fencing from net wire 
to more wildlife-friendly fencing. The work was done in partnership with the Rock Spring Grazing Association and Uinta Development, 
the associations responsible for 
managing grazing leases, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and the Wyoming Conservation 
Corps. To keep birds – especially the 
Sage-grouse – from flying into the fence, we supported a local Eagle Scout candidate’s project to install flight deflectors on the fence wire. 
Another fencing project around two 
small ponds helps protect grazing sheep, antelope and other wildlife while still allowing them access to water.
Community-Based Conservation 
Efforts
For the past four years we have 
partnered with Panthera, an 
organization that leads effective 
conservation strategies for the world’s largest and most endangered cats. With FMC support in 2013, Panthera was able to expand the “Living with Lions” program into a new site in the Zambezi 
A male Greater Sage-grouse performs its courtship display.
Community 
Engagement Index ValueThe Greater Sage-grouse can be found in 10 western states as well as parts of southern Canada.
SHAPING THE
FUtURe
SAGE-
GRoUSe
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  39Region of Namibia, as well as provide continued 
support to Ruaha, Tanzania, and Hwange, Zimbabwe. The following results have led Panthera to consider the FMC project to be a successful and replicable model:
  •  In parts of Kenya, Tanzania and Zimbabwe, lion 
      killings have been completely eliminated. 
  •  Areas of Zimbabwe have experienced a 50 percent 
      decline in the number of cattle killed by lions.  
  •  In its first year of operation, the program in 
      Namibia led to over 200 lion “alerts” and a 50 
      percent decline in livestock losses. 
In addition, we worked with Panthera in Brazil to 
address jaguar conservation in the states of Mato Grosso and Pará where our Furadan® insecticide was allegedly being used to harm jaguars. As a precautionary measure, we stopped selling the 
product in those two areas. To help educate farmers 
and their families on the safe use of pesticides, we continue to sponsor two plays, “Planting the 7 Habits” and “Tree of Life.” We also conducted product stewardship training that included: secure storage of pesticides, wearing personal protective equipment when making applications, how to read and understand a product label, and proper container disposal. 
29
Bee Colony Responsibility
Pollinating bees are an essential part of both agriculture and food production. Given bees’ significant ecological value, FMC pays close attention to the latest research about their declining population. Scientists consider some amount of bee 
loss to be normal, so their concern focuses on a 
syndrome called “Colony Collapse Disorder” (CCD). 
Current studies about the cause of CCD have not 
been definitive, in most cases because they have not adequately tested the diverse threats that bees face in real-life field situations. Efforts to correlate CCD 
with pesticide exposure have yielded varied results 
and indications are that multiple factors are involved in CCD. FMC is involved in organizations including CropLife America, which in conjunction with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, sponsored a Pollinator Summit in March 2013. The summit provided a forum for stakeholders (beekeepers, growers, pesticide manufacturers including FMC, and federal and 
state agencies) to network and learn about current 
research and technologies, best practices and other stewardship activities to protect bees and improve pollinator health.
FMC’s product stewardship involves extensive 
distributor and farmer training on agricultural products with which bees might inadvertently come in contact. We consider potential bee toxicity before bringing any new insecticide to market and 
are developing more naturally based agricultural 
products to ensure that any risk to biodiversity is minimized.
Strengthening Community Relationships
FMC has developed a framework to guide community interaction, while at the same time allowing each site to assess local priorities and determine how best to use our skills for positive impact.In 2013, FMC Agricultural Solutions continued 
training on the ‘7 Habits of Responsibility,’ focusing efforts on Asia and Latin America. 19,324
people trained in Latin America~500
training events held in Latin America
1. Use only registered pesticides and always 
      read the label
2. Wear personal protective equipment
3. Properly maintain and calibrate equipment
4. Triple rinse empty containers and properly 
      dispose of them
5. Store pesticides securely in their 
      original containers
6. Transport pesticides safely and have spill 
      kits available
7. Practice personal hygiene after using 
      pesticides7 HAbITS Of 
reSPONSIbILITy
7 HABITS OF
ReSpoNSIBIlItY
40  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREMeasuring Community Interaction 
FMC has an overall goal of having “a positive impact in 
communities where we live and work.” In order to measure this, we established a common framework for reporting on various interactions in our communities. Called the Community Engagement Index, it consists of four categories that we consider important factors in building and maintaining effective 
relationships. They are: 
  •  Safety – We provide community training on relevant safety 
      topics, participate in local emergency response organizations 
      and support other activities that foster community safety.
  •  Operational transparency – We exchange information about 
      our operations through community advisory panels, plant tours       and other activities.
  •  Community leadership –FMC employees bring their leadership 
      skills to roles that strengthen the community. This may include 
      participation in local Chambers of Commerce, service on 
      charitable and non-profit boards and other roles that       demonstrate leadership in the community.
  •  Community partnership – This includes our involvement in 
      volunteerism and philanthropic endeavors. Each site discerns       the best ways to support their local community in terms of       financial contributions, shared time and expertise of employees       and in-kind donations.  
We have a target of achieving an Index value of 90 or greater by 
2015. Attaining this Index level would indicate that most sites are engaging with their communities in the ways outlined above over the course of the year. 
Our 2013 Index score – adjusted for the exclusion of our Peroxygens 
business – increased from 80 in 2012 to 83 in 2013. This year, several acquisitions were included in the Index for the first time. Many of these facilities are in early stages of understanding 
community needs and establishing programs. We are confident that we will achieve our goal in 2015, 
and are already thinking about how 
we can continue to understand our 
communities and assess the value of our impact. 
Supporting Safer CommunitiesOur safety manifesto states: “We 
believe safety is a universal human right. We each have a fundamental responsibility to our fellow employees, 
friends, families and communities 
to be safe.” This interdependency is reflected in our efforts to share our safety knowledge and awareness with the broader community. 
Our community engagement extends 
beyond conducting drills with local emergency responders. We initiate 
interaction on community safety issues 
more broadly. 
  •  In India employees of our lithium 
      facility partnered with the       Patancheru Traffic Police 
Employees of FMC 
Patancheru work 
with the local Traffic 
Police Department 
on spreading the 
important message of 
defensive driving.fMC HeLPS 
MANILA SCHOOL IN THe LONG-TerM
Employees at FMC’s Manila 
office have built a long-term partnership with a local school, 
Itass Elementary, volunteering 
time and expertise on a number of projects that benefit the school. It all started with the building of a water tank and a rain collector. In 
2013 FMC employees constructed 
much-needed bookshelves for the school, and taught teachers how to use Excel for the students’ grading sheets. Through support of CropLife 
Latin America, we support the following programs and impacts.
tons recovered in 2013.50,077A solution for empty pesticide containers. 
Hundreds of collection points are available 
where farmers can bring empty, triple-
washed containers for recycling.
Training program to promote responsible 
use of crop protection products.people trained in 2013.145,473
CROPLIFE LATIN
AMERICA SUppoR t
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  41      Argentina, facility, FMC volunteers provided training on first aid 
      for poisonous snakes – commonplace in the region.
  •  FMC Lithium’s plant in Zhangjiagang, China, held its annual 
      Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Family Day to help increase 
      safety awareness among employees and their families, as well 
      as to celebrate the plant’s safety achievements and recognize       employees’ contributions to HSE. Family members visited the       plant and participated in workshops that included safety videos       and training in proper use of a fire extinguisher. 
Emergency ResponsivenessWhen it comes to emergency situations, FMC provides aid how and 
where it will do the most good. To best assist in disaster situations 
anywhere in the world we fostered a closer relationship with the American Red Cross in 2013. This organization has a global network and is equipped to deliver resources for life’s basic needs to those affected by devastation. 
By providing the Red Cross with funding or in-kind support if 
appropriate, FMC can effectively help people worldwide. After the 
Philippines experienced two natural disasters in November, for example, FMC donated $75,000 as a corporation and additional funds were donated by employees. The organization dispersed the funds to the Philippines Red Cross which is handling the on-ground response.
 (See pages 12-13 for more information.)
Contributing to Vibrant Communities 
Aligned with our focus on community leadership and community partnership, FMC is actively involved in supporting:
  •  Philanthropic donations and employee volunteerism. 
  •  Educational opportunities to encourage students to pursue 
      science, technology, engineering and mathematics       (STEM) studies.
  •  Economic development.Giving and VolunteerismIn 2013 we invested more than $1.8 million in our communities 
across the globe. In addition to volunteer outreach projects, over 90 percent of employees in the U.S. made donations to our annual fMC GOeS 
TO SCHOOL WITH UNIqUe PArTNerSHIP
FMC became an official job partner 
of Cristo Rey Philadelphia High School, a new model of private 
high school that partners with 
local educators, businesses and universities. Each week, eight students work with various FMC departments in our corporate 
headquarters. Through the program 
students gain real world skills, earn money for their education and become better equipped to attend 
college. 
30We work to achieve socially conscious results through 
relationships with the area surrounding the Salar del Hombre Muerto, Argentinean Puna, where our lithium products originate. 20scholarships are given every year. 10to Catamarca National University
10to Salta National University
*SCHOLARSHIPS
      Department to “hit the road” and 
      spread the message of defensive       driving to the general public. 
  •  As part of our many educational 
      programs in the small communities 
      near our Minera del Altiplano, 
CATAMARCA & SALTA
pRoVINCeS
42  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREOur lithium products originate in the Salar del 
Hombre Muerto, Argentinean Puna, where we work to 
achieve socially conscious results through supportive 
and transparent relationships with our neighbors, specifically the provinces of Catamarca and Salta. We 
look for ways to increase community education and 
accessibility, for example: 
  •  FMC subsidizes nutrition programs at two soup 
      kitchens and a school in Antofagasta de la Sierra.       We also carry out regular nutrition checkups in 
      conjunction with the community and with 
      professionals from Antofagasta de la Sierra Hospital,       and re-evaluate menus as necessary to ensure good 
      nutrition. Parents and soup kitchen committees are 
      also offered nutrition education.
  •  Throughout the year we trained the local community 
      of Antofagasta de la Sierra on topics related to       health and first aid.
  •  We provided solar panels for the generation of 
      electric power at the local hospital, and have 
      contributed lithium batteries for solar panels to 
      other neighbors.We provided solar panels to generate 
electric power at the local hospital.
*GASWe will provide access to a gas pipeline we are building to power our Minera del Altiplano facility, providing much-needed heat and electricity to remote communities.
  •  When needed, we drive or fly patients and people at 
      risk (such as pregnant women) to more complex 
      medical centers than exist nearby.
  •  Twenty scholarships are given every year; 10 for 
      students to attend Catamarca National University, 
      and 10 for students at Salta National University.
  •  FMC partners with the Junior Achievement 
      Foundation on educational programs at primary and       secondary schools in General Güemes.
  •  We will provide community members access to a 
      gas pipeline we are building to power our Minera del 
      Altiplano facility. With construction planned to begin 
      in 2014, three remote communities will be able to tap       into it to get heat and electricity. In addition to 
      providing a much-needed energy source, the pipeline 
      reduces truck traffic and thereby improves safety and       energy delivery reliability while reducing emissions.HIGH ALTITUDe eNGAGeMeNT
*SOLAR
pANelS
 pIpelINe
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  43Seaweed is the primary raw material for FMC’s 
carrageenan products and FMC makes a conscientious 
effort to provide support for the farmers, their families 
and neighbors. In 2013 we undertook several community support and enhancement programs to continue to 
support the viability of our supply chain:
  •  FMC sponsored and participated in a dental mission 
      to treat children on Guindacpan Island, Philippines. 
      This effort is critical because 96 percent of children       in the Philippines aged 6 to 12 suffer from tooth 
      decay. FMC employees arranged all the logistics 
      and served as assistants and translators to the team       of dentists from Sweden and Denmark who visited 
      for a five-day mission. They treated 384 children, 
      many of whom had suffered long-term pain from       lack of dental care. To ensure an ongoing benefit 
      of the mission, teachers at the elementary school 
      were taught correct tooth-brushing techniques so       they could, in turn, instruct their students. FMC has 
      been involved with the initiative for four years, 
      visiting different islands each time. 
  •  In celebration of World Oceans Day, FMC worked 
      with our Madagascar seaweed supplier to promote       beach clean-ups in three seaweed farming 
      communities. Prizes were awarded to the local       families who collected the most refuse, and a total 
      of 1.2 tons of trash was collected along with 200kg 
      of used household batteries. Activities during the 
      event included games for children and adults, and       educational discussions about the importance 
      of healthy ocean ecosystems for seaweed farming 
      communities. 
  •  Approximately 90 percent of the seaweed farms in 
      the Bantayan Islands in North Cebu, Philippines,       were destroyed by typhoon Haiyan in November 2013. 
      FMC partnered with our main seaweed supplier 
      to support recovery of the farms. FMC’s portion of       the donation is being used to replace ropes and ties – 
      materials that are essential for seaweed farming. 
  •  FMC helped address a lack of toilet facilities near the 
      seaweed farms at Mjini Kiuyu, Pemba Island, 
      Zanzibar, Tanzania by providing materials and       managing the toilet construction project. We also 
      provided materials and project management needed 
      for members of the community to build a new       staircase that gives farmers an easier and safer path 
      to carry seaweed from the shore up to drying 
      structures. More than 200 farmers are benefiting       from these projects.SUPPOr T fOr SeAWeeD SUPPLIerSTo support the viability of our seaweed 
supply chain, we undertook several community support programs in 2013.
*DENTAL CARE IN tHe pHIlIppINeS
384FMC arranged for Swedish and Danish dentists to treat 384 children. 96 percent of children in the Philippines aged 6 to 12 suffer from tooth decay.
SEAWEED
SUppoR t
44  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREUnited Way fundraising drive to support health and 
human services causes. The company provided a matching gift averaging 50 percent of employee contributions. 
Among the myriad of organizations we support in 
Philadelphia is the largest hunger relief organization in the area, Philabundance. Selected because of its strategic fit with our emphasis on access to nutritious foods, Philabundance is supported by FMC volunteers  who help hand out food every month. Over the course of 2013, more than 150 area employees donated their time to help feed some of the approximately 72,000 people Philabundance serves weekly. 
Economic Development and Education
Economic development, job creation and improved 
community resources are all vital to community advancement and FMC is an established, committed neighbor.
  •  In Philadelphia we have signed a 16-year lease 
      in a building to be named the FMC Tower at 
      Cira Centre South. Under construction currently 
      and with a move-in date of mid-2016, this 49-story       building is expected to receive Leadership       in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)       certification. Maintaining our presence in       Philadelphia continues support of the       Philadelphia school district through local sales       and income taxes.  •  Our research and development facilities are       important contributors to employment and       education. As an example, FMC’s Global       Innovation Center in Ewing, New Jersey, employs             approximately 200 people, is a significant taxpayer 
      to the town and works with nearby schools such 
      as the College of New Jersey to create awareness       of the company among students who may want to       consider future employment with us. 
FMC is a significant employer in many of the locations 
where we operate. Particularly in more remote areas, we strive to improve the welfare of the communities through comprehensive community support. This can take many forms, for example through focus 
on continued health and nutrition education and 
accessibility or through ecological clean-up and disaster recovery. (
See the case studies on pages 43 
and 44 for specific examples.)
Making a Positive Difference 
FMC has committed to making a measurable difference as we strive to improve the quality of life of people in communities where we live and work. We are doing this in areas of safety, operational transparency, leadership and philanthropy, as well 
as through our products themselves. Our goal is 
to continue to build and maintain relationships based on mutual trust and understanding with our communities.FMC arranged beach 
clean-ups in three seaweed farming communities.1.2tons of trash were collected.
0000+
200kg of used household batteries were collected. +200farmers are benefiting from these projects.
 A local farmer checks his seaweed crop in Mataya, Coron, Palawan Province, Philippines.
*WORLD OCEANS DAY
IN MADAGASCAR
*TOILET & STAIRCASE
CoNStRUCtIoN IN t ANZANIA
FMC 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  45OUr 
APPrOACH TO 
SUSTAINAbILITy
OTHer reSOUrCeSeXploRe oUR 
WoRlD oN 
tHe WeB
FMC.com/sustainability  is our digital 
home. We invite you to explore these 
online assets to learn more about our 
sustainability efforts. Follow the link 
or QR code to learn more.
At FMC, our approach 
to sustainability is about creating enduring value by managing our innovation, operations and business practices to meet the changing demands of our markets, our shareholders and 
society. 
32
We invite you to explore our 
archive of sustainability and annual reports, as well as our video library and other publications related to our 
sustainability work.  
34GrI INDeX
COMMUNITy 
INITIATIVe MAP
FMC is investing in the 
people and communities where we live and work. Our community partnerships and service activities are opportunities for us to further our commitment to shaping a better future 
for all. 
35
FMC uses the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) to inform our sustainability reporting. FMC has been GRI-checked as a level B reporter for our 2013 report. GRI provides organizations with guidance in applying its comprehensive sustainability reporting framework covering economic, environmental and social sustainability disclosure 
criteria. 
31
DATA CeNTer
Our data center presents the key performance 
indicators included in this report, as well as additional data and information on scope and definitions. This expanded data center is part of our effort to increase transparency 
on our progress. 
33
GLOBAL WASTE BY DeStINA tIoN
Land Disposal
20%
Incineration
7%
Recycle
30%Treatment
40%Other
1%
Asia 24%
EMEA 13%
Latin America 19%
North America 44%FMC GLOBAL
WoRKFoRCe BY ReGIoN
5,600 employees globally as of 
December 31, 2013rePOr T Web 
ACCeSS 
Use these symbols to access 
additional information at fmc.com/sustainability. Simply enter the appropriate number to connect with your 
information.  
46  SHAPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTUREfMC bOArD Of DIreCTOrS
Pierre R. Brondeau
President, Chief Executive Officer  and Chairman of the Board FMC Corporation
Eduardo E. Cordeiro
Executive Vice President  and Chief Financial OfficerCabot Corporation
G. Peter D’Aloia
Managing Directorand Member of the Board of DirectorsAscend Performance Materials  Holdings, Inc.
C. Scott Greer
PrincipalGreer and Associates
k’Lynne Johnson
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentElevance Renewable Sciences
Dirk A. kempthorne
President and Chief Executive OfficerAmerican Council of Life Insurers
Paul J. Norris
Retired Chairman  and Chief Executive OfficerW. R. Grace & Co.
Robert C. Pallash
Retired President, Global Customer Group and Senior Vice PresidentVisteon Corporation
William H. Powell
Retired Chairman  and Chief Executive OfficerNational Starch and Chemical Company
Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. 
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentDresser-Rand Group, Inc.
eXeCUTIVe COMMITTee
Pierre R. BrondeauPresident, Chief Executive Officer  and Chairman of the Board 
Paul Graves
Executive Vice President  and Chief Financial Officer
Mark A. Douglas
President, FMC Agricultural Solutions
Edward T. Flynn
President, FMC Minerals
Mike Smith
Vice President, Global Business DirectorFMC Health and NutritionAndrea E. UtechtExecutive Vice President  General Counsel and Secretary
Barry J. Crawford
Vice President, Operations
kenneth A. Gedaka
Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs
kimberly Johnson
Vice President, Human Resources
Andrew D. Sandifer
Vice President, Strategic Development
karen M. Totland 
Vice President, Global Procurement, Global Facilities & Corporate Sustainability
OffICerS
Thomas C. Deas, Jr.Vice President and Treasurer
Marc L. Hullebroeck
Vice President and Business Director FMC Agricultural Solutions,  North America and EMEA
David A. kotch
Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Eric W. Norris
Vice President, Global Business Director Lithium
Nicholas L. Pfeiffer
Corporate Controller
Tom Schneberger
Vice President, Global Business DirectorAlkali Chemicals
Charles J. Thomas
Vice President, Finance
Ulrich Trogele
President, FMC Asia Vice PresidentFMC Agricultural Solutions, Asia 
Victoria V. Walton
Vice President, Tax
Shawn Whitman
Vice President, Government Affairs
Antonio Zem
President, FMC Latin AmericaVice President FMC Agricultural Solutions,  Latin AmericaThis publication is printed on recycled paper using soy-based inks.
Copyright © 2014, FMC Corporation. All rights reserved.FMC Corporation
1735 Market StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19103USA
www.FMC.com
