Sustainability
2015 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
2
Our sustainability website is part of Fortum’s integrated reporting 
for 2015. This pdf publication contains the reporting content of our 
sustainability website. The pdf report has been updated on May 31, 
2016 to be consistent with the information on the web pages.Contents To the reader
Sustainability reporting  ............................................................................... 3
Sustainability indexes  ................................................................................... 4
Sustainability management  ....................................................................... 5
Key sustainability topics  ....................................................................... 5
Governance and management ........................................................... 8
Economic  ................................................................................................... 9
Environment  ........................................................................................... 10
Labour practices ................................................................................... 11
Human rights  ......................................................................................... 12
Society  ..................................................................................................... 13
Product responsibility  ......................................................................... 13
Policies and commitments  ................................................................ 14
Business ethics and compliance  .................................................... 16
Economic responsibility  ............................................................................ 17
Economic impacts  .................................................................................. 17
Customer satisfaction and reputation  ........................................ 19
Supply chain management  ................................................................ 20
Sustainable fuel purchasing  .............................................................. 21
Sustainable supply chain  ................................................................... 22
Environmental  responsibility  .................................................................. 23
Environmental key figures  ................................................................. 24
Sustainable energy production  ....................................................... 25
Climate change mitigation  ................................................................. 26
Greenhouse gas emissions 2015  ................................................... 27
Improving energy efficiency  ............................................................. 29
Energy intensity 2015  ......................................................................... 30
Fuel consumption 2015  ..................................................................... 30
Biodiversity  ................................................................................................ 31
Emissions into air  ................................................................................... 32
Water use  .................................................................................................... 33
Waste and by-products  ........................................................................ 34
Environmental non-compliances and incidents  ..................... 35Social responsibility  ..................................................................................... 36
Social key figures  .................................................................................... 37
Security of supply  ................................................................................... 38
Employees  .................................................................................................. 39
Diversity and equal opportunity  ....................................................... 41
Employee-employer relations  ........................................................... 42
Employee wellbeing  ............................................................................. 43
Employee development  ...................................................................... 44
Operational and occupational safety  ........................................... 45
Contingency planning  ......................................................................... 46
Corporate citizenship  ........................................................................... 47
Human rights  ............................................................................................ 49
Product responsibility  .......................................................................... 50
Reporting principles  ..................................................................................... 51
Reported GRI indicators  ............................................................................. 52
Glossary, acronyms and units  ................................................................ 57
Glossary  ....................................................................................................... 57
Acronyms  .................................................................................................... 59
Units  .............................................................................................................. 59
Contact us  ......................................................................................................... 603
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility  Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Sustainability reporting
In our sustainability reporting, we comply with integrated reporting principles, and we apply the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines’ specific standard disclosure indicators we have identified as material. 
We apply the requirements of the Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures where we have deemed the information 
to be material to our stakeholders.
We gain information about our stakeholders’ views through the One Fortum survey, the stakeholder 
sustainability survey, the EPSI customer satisfaction survey, and other stakeholder collaboration. Our 
selection of material aspects is based on Fortum’s own and our stakeholders’ views regarding the 
significance of the impacts.
Our reporting for 2015 includes:
Annual review
Financial statements
Governance (incl. Corporate Governance Statement and Remuneration Statement)
Tax footprint
Sections on Fortum’s website:
Sustainability, with subpages
Reported GRI indicators
Energy production
Fortum worldwide
Our stakeholders
Products and services
We report sustainability information annually in Finnish and English. In our annual reporting we describe 
Fortum’s operations in 2015 as well as some information from January-February 2016. The previous 
reporting was published in March 2015 as part of the online Annual Report, and our next reporting will be 
published in spring 2017. In addition to the annual reporting, we report on our sustainability activities in 
Fortum’s interim reports.
 Internal reporting
Fortum’s environmental sustainability targets include the Group’s CO2 emissions per produced kWh, energy-
efficiency improvement and the number of major EHS incidents. Social responsibility is measured at the 
corporate level with security of supply and occupational safety indicators. Also customer satisfaction and 
reputation are measured with corporate-level indicators.
EHS incidents, employee and contractor injury frequency rate, the number of serious work-related 
injuries and plant availability are reported monthly to the Fortum Executive Management. All occupational 
accidents and major EHS incidents as well as the causes of accidents are reviewed at Fortum Executive 
Management meetings. Specific carbon dioxide emissions and, new for 2016, work wellbeing measured 
by the percentage of sickness-related absences, are reported to the Fortum Executive Management every 
quarter. The Group’s key indicators are reported regularly also to Fortum’s Board of Directors and are 
published in Fortum’s interim reports.
 Global Compact reporting
Fortum has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact initiative since June 2010. On our 
sustainability web pages, in conjunction with the description of environmental responsibility and social 
responsibility, we describe the realisation of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact initiative in our 
operations in 2015. We use the GRI G4 indicators to measure compliance with the principles of human 
rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption.
Fortum joined the UN Caring for Climate initiative in November 2013. Fortum meets the reporting 
requirements of the Caring for Climate initiative by participating annually in the assessment in the CDP’s 
climate change survey and by publishing its response on the CDP website.
 
Sustainability assessments and questionnaires
Fortum annually responds to several sustainability assessments and questionnaires conducted by the 
investor community and others. For example, we respond to the global CDP Questionnaire (previously 
Carbon Disclosure Project) surveying corporate actions to mitigate climate change, and we are featured 
in the CDP’s Nordic Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the eight consecutive year. Some of these 
responses are public and some are available only to the organisation performing the assessment and ranking 
the respondents.      
Read more
Reporting principles
Fortum’s CDP reporting (pdf)
Interim reports
Global compact reporting Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
4
Sustainability indexes
Expert assessments of sustainability and good rankings in significant 
sustainability indexes are important to Fortum because they support 
the development and continuous improvement in the responsibility 
of our operations. Additionally, the assessments and indexes provide 
investors with impartial information about the level of the company’s 
operations in the three sub-areas of sustainability: economic, 
environmental and social responsibility.  CDP representing altogether 822 institutional investors, ranked 
Fortum among the best companies in the Nordic Climate Disclosure 
Leadership Index (CDLI) 2015. Fortum received 100/100 scores. 
Fortum is featured in the Nordic CDLI for the 8th consecutive year.
 
German oekom research AG has awarded Fortum a Prime Status (B-) 
rating. Prime Status means that Fortum is among the best companies 
in its sector and fulfils industry-specific best-in-class requirements. 
Oekom research AG annually assesses about 3,000 companies.
 
Fortum is included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices which 
list global leaders in terms of environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) criteria. The family of indices is made up of three specialized 
indices for the categories mentioned and one broad index which 
sums up the specialized indexes.
    
Fortum has been included in the NASDAQ OMX and GES Investment 
Service’s new OMX GES Sustainability Finland index. It provides 
investors with reliable and objective information about company 
performance in sustainability. GES Investment Services compares 
leading companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and their 
responsibility in environmental, social and governance issues. The 40 
top-ranking companies in the assessment are included in the index.
In December 2013 Fortum was included in the ECPI® Indices. 
These indices are used for benchmarking, thematic investments, 
risk management purposes and to create index-tracking investment 
strategies or ETF’s (Exchange-traded funds). ECPI is a leading Rating 
and Index company dedicated to ESG Research (Environmental, 
Social and Governance) since 1997.
Read more
CDP
CDP - diploma
NASDAQ OMX
oekom research AG
ECPI indices  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
5
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Sustainability management
Fortum’s purpose is to provide customers with energy solutions that 
improve present and future life, and to deliver excellent shareholder 
value. Our values – accountability, creativity, respect and honesty – 
form the foundation for all our activities.
Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum’s strategy. Business 
and responsibility are tightly linked, underlining the role of sustainable 
solutions as a competitive advantage. In our operations, we give 
balanced consideration to economic, social and environmental 
responsibility.
Our way of operating responsibly includes continuously 
identifying the views of our stakeholders and finding a balance 
between the different expectations our stakeholders have. We 
describe our stakeholder collaboration on separate web pages .  Key sustainability topics 
 
 We have defined our most important sustainability focus areas in the areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility:
Our focus areas are based on Fortum’s and our stakeholders’ views of the significance of the impacts on the company and its ability to create value 
for its stakeholders and on the environment. Our understanding of stakeholder views is based on the results of the extensive stakeholder surveys 
conducted annually as well as on information gained through other stakeholder collaboration.
In 2015 a total of 2,133 stakeholder representatives, more than 60% of them representing personnel,  participated in our separate sustainability 
survey. In the 2015 sustainability survey for stakeholders, decision makers, organisations, employees and the general public put special emphasis 
on the significance of security of supply of heat and electricity, management of sustainability-related risks, and sustainable ways of operating. Our 
personnel emphasised the safety of operations. The general public considered the use of renewable energy sources as important.
Read more
Fortum’s vision, mission, strategy and valuesEconomic responsibilitySocial responsibility
Environmental responsibilityLong-term v alue 
and gr owth
Sustainable 
supply chainEnergy and 
resource eﬃciency
Economic beneﬁts 
to our st akeholder sClimate benign energy 
production and sy stemsReduction of 
environmental impactsSecure supply of heat 
and electricity
Solutions for 
sustainable cities Operational and 
occupational safety Business ethics 
and complianceCustomer
satisfaction  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
6
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Group sustainability targets and performance
• From our stakeholders’ perspective, our performance developed positively, and both our reputation and customer satisfaction improved.
• We achieved our target also in specific carbon dioxide emissions. In 2015 our specific carbon dioxide emissions in the EU area were   
21 gCO2/kWh and specific emissions from total energy production 181 gCO2/kWh.
• The Suomenoja heat pump station and the Joensuu power plant’s flue-gas condenser contributed to the energy efficiency improvement in our 
production in Finland. Boosting the operational efficiency of our turbine plants improved the energy efficiency at the Argayash and Chelyabinsk 
CHP3 power plants in Russia. The implemented projects resulted in an annual energy savings of about 559 GWh.
• We strive to be a safe workplace for our employees and for our contractors’ employees. In 2015 the injury frequency for own employees 
remained at a low level, and the injury frequency for our contractor employees improved, but the number of serious injuries was still too high. 
There were no accidents leading to a fatality during the year. 
• To ensure supply chain responsibility, our goal was to audit 15 fuel and goods suppliers. As part of our contractor selection process, in India we 
focused on auditing potential solar plant contractors. Altogether, we audited nine suppliers in five countries.Realisation of sustainability targets in 2015
The Fortum Executive Management decides on the sustainability 
approach and the Group-level sustainability targets that guide annual 
planning. The targets are ultimately approved by Fortum’s Board 
of Directors. The Fortum Executive Management monitors the 
achievement of the targets in its monthly meetings and in quarterly 
performance reviews. The achievement of the targets is regularly 
reported also to Fortum’s Board of Directors. In addition to the 
Group-level targets approved by Fortum’s Board of Directors, Fortum 
also has division-level targets.
   Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
7
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum employee
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum employee and are part of 
Fortum’s short-term incentive scheme. Fortum’s Board of Directors 
annually decides on the sustainability targets to be included in 
the incentive scheme. In 2015 the incentive scheme included an 
index measuring injury frequency for Fortum employees and for 
contractors, the number of serious injuries, the number of major 
environmental, health and safety incidents (EHS incidents), and 
Fortum’s ability to improve its performance in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Assessment.
The injury frequency for Fortum employees and for contractors 
and the number of serious occupational accidents will be included in 
the 2016 incentive scheme. In 2016, the weight of the sustainability 
index in the incentive scheme is 10% (2015: 20%).Group sustainability targets in 2016
Read more
Customer satisfaction and reputation
Greenhouse gas emissions
Improving e nergy efficiency
Security of supply
Operational and occupational safety
Our targets for 2016
Our sustainability targets are based on continuous operational improvement. There are still too many serious injuries, leading to absences of over 
30 days, occurring in our operations; our most important goal is to cut the number of these injuries by half. We are aiming for no serious injuries 
by 2020. 
We believe that workplace well-being supports the achievement of our strategic goals, and for this reason a work well-being indicated as a 
percentage of sickness-related absences, was approved as a new Group target starting from 2016. Our target is to maintain our currently low 
rate of sickness-related absences (2.4% of working hours).
In terms of specific carbon dioxide emissions from our production (gCO2/kWh), we decided to focus on measuring Group-level specific 
emissions from our total energy production (electricity and heat production in all countries). Previously, we measured the specific emissions from 
electricity production also in the EU area, but this figure covers only about 10% of our carbon dioxide emissions, so its production-guiding impact 
is minor.  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
8
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Governance and management
 Sustainability management at Fortum is strategy-driven and is 
based on the company’s values, the Code of Conduct, the Supplier 
Code of Conduct and the policies and their specifying instructions 
defined at the Group level. We comply with laws and regulations. 
All of our operations are guided by good governance, effective risk 
management, adequate controls and the internal audit principles 
supporting them.
Fortum’s goal is a high level of environmental and safety 
management in all business activities. Calculated in terms of sales, 
99.9% of Fortum’s electricity and heat production operations at the 
end of 2015  were ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. The 
divisions and sites develop their operations with internal and external 
audits required by environmental, occupational safety and quality 
management systems.
Responsibilities
Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum’s strategy and the 
highest decision-making authority in these issues is with the Board 
of Directors, which has joint responsibility in matters related 
to sustainability. For this reason, Fortum has not designated 
a Sustainability Committee for decision-making on economic, 
environmental and social issues. The Audit and Risk Committee, 
members of Fortum Executive Management and other executives 
support the Board of Directors in the decision-making in the 
aforementioned matters, when needed.
The Fortum Executive Management decides on the sustainability 
approach and Group-level sustainability targets that guide annual 
planning. The targets are ultimately approved by Fortum’s Board of 
Directors. Fortum Executive Management monitors the achievement 
of the targets in its monthly meetings and in quarterly performance 
reviews. The achievement of the targets is regularly reported also to 
Fortum’s Board of Directors.Fortum’s line management is responsible for sustainability 
management, and realisation of the targets is part of Fortum’s 
incentive system.
 
Corporate Sustainability unit  
Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability unit is responsible for coordinating 
and developing sustainability at the Group level. The Corporate 
Sustainability unit works in close collaboration with the business 
functions as well as with functions responsible for risk management 
and for internal audit and controls. Collaboration with the units 
responsible for Legal, Mergers and Acquisitions, Strategy, Purchasing, 
Corporate Relations and Public Affairs is an ongoing activity.
The Corporate Sustainability unit gives sustainability approval for 
all significant investments, acquisitions and divestments as part of 
Fortum’s investment evaluation and approval procedure. In addition, 
the unit participates in the Group’s market outlook and public affairs Read more
Sustainability targets
Corporate governance
Corporate Governance Statement and Remuneration 
Statement 2015
processes and supports the Investor Relations function with its 
expertise.
 
Sustainability management by topic
Sustainability management in the areas of economic responsibility, 
environmental responsibility and social responsibility is described in 
more detail in the accompanying tables. Additionally, more detailed 
information about the management of different aspects and impacts 
is presented by topic on our sustainability web pages.
Photo: Lehtikuva  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
9
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Economic
Fortum’s management of sustainability in the area of economic 
performance is described in the table. Additionally, more detailed 
information on the management of the different aspects and impacts 
is presented by topic on our sustainability web pages.
Read more
Economic responsibilityManagement of economic 
responsibilityDescription
 Targets and approach  Our goal is to achieve excellent financial results in strategically selected core areas through strong expertise and 
responsible ways of operating. We believe that competitiveness, security of supply and market driven production enable 
long-term profitable growth. A financially strong company can shoulder responsibility for the environment, take care of 
its employees, monitor its supply chain, meet customer expectations, and produce excellent value to its shareholders.
Each new research and development target is assessed against the criteria of carbon dioxide emissions reduction and 
resource efficiency. Likewise, each new investment proposal is assessed against sustainability criteria as part of 
Fortum’s investment assessment and approval process. In our investments we seek the kinds of economically profitable 
alternatives that provide the opportunity to increase capacity and reduce emissions.
We measure financial performance with the return on capital employed (target: 10%) and capital structure (target: 
comparable net debt/EBITDA about 2.5).
 
The realisation of financial targets in 2015 is reported in the Financial performance and position section of the Financial 
Statements .
 Policies The financial management system is based on Group level policies and their specifying instructions, and on good 
governance, effective risk management, sufficient controls and the internal audit principles supporting them. Other key 
elements steering financial management are presented in the section Policies and commitments .
Responsibilities The CFO and the Group’s Financial unit, division management, and ultimately the CEO and the Board of Directors, are 
responsible for issues related to finances and financial statements and for broader financial responsibility issues.
 
Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and management .
Monitoring and follow-up The Board decides on the company’s financial targets as a part of the annual business planning process. Realisation of 
the targets is monitored on monthly basis both at the division level and by the Fortum Executive Management. Fortum’s 
management monitors the realisation of financial targets quarterly as part of the business performance assessment, and 
key indicators are regularly reported to Fortum’s Board of Directors. Financial key indicators related to investments are 
monitored in investment forums.  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
10
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Environment
Fortum’s management of sustainability in the area of environmental 
performance is described in the table. Additionally, more detailed 
information on the management of the different aspects and impacts 
is presented by topic on our sustainability web pages.
Read more
Environmental responsibilityManagement of 
environmental 
responsibilityDescription
 Targets and approach  In environmental responsibility, we emphasise energy and resource efficiency, climate change mitigation and the 
reduction of environmental impacts. Our expertise in carbon dioxide-free hydro and nuclear power production and in 
energy-efficient CHP production, as well as our investments in solar and wind energy, and our offering of sustainable 
solutions for cities contribute to our environmental responsibility. Through research and development work we are 
creating prerequisites for environmentally benign energy solutions.
 
We measure the realisation of the environmental responsibility with the following indicators, for which we have set 
Group-level targets ( targets for 2015 and 2016 ):
• Specific CO2 emissions
• Energy efficiency
• Significant environmental incidents
Additionally, we have a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits (aspect: supplier environmental 
assessments).
 Policies Environmental management is based on Fortum’s sustainability policy.
Other key elements steering environmental management are presented in the section Policies and commitments . 
 
We assess environmental risks as part of the Group’s risk assessment process ( Financial Statements /Operating and 
financial review/risk management).
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and Management .
Monitoring and follow-up EHS non-compliances are reported monthly and specific carbon dioxide emissions are reported quarterly and energy 
efficiency improvements annually to the Fortum Executive Management. The Group's key indicators are reported 
regularly to Fortum's Board of Directors and are published in Fortum's Interim Reports.
 
The divisions and sites develop their operations with audits required by environmental management systems. Internal 
and external auditors regularly audit our ISO 14001 standard-compliant management system. The CO2 emissions of 
plants within the sphere of the EU’s emissions trading scheme are audited annually on a per plant basis by an external 
verifier accredited by the emissions trading authority. The verification addresses the reliability, credibility and accuracy 
of the monitoring system and the reported data and information relating to emissions. The plants must annually submit 
to the authorities a verified emissions report of the previous calendar year’s carbon dioxide emissions.
 
We assess the level of operations of our business partners through pre-selection and supplier audits . For coal, we 
use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the supply chain. The Bettercoal audits are always 
conducted by third parties.
 
We map our stakeholders' views annually with the One Fortum survey and with separate sustainability surveys.   Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
11
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Labour practices
Fortum’s management of sustainability in the area of Labour 
practices and decent work in social performance is described in the 
table. Additionally, more detailed information on the management 
of the different aspects and impacts is presented by topic on our 
sustainability web pages.
Read more
Social responsibility Management of social 
responsibility: labour 
practices and decent 
work Description
 Targets and approach  We aspire to be a desired and safe workplace for our employees and for contractors and service providers working for us. 
We believe that all injuries can be avoided. Our social responsibility targets are related to employee well-being and 
competence development, work and process safety, responsible business practices and responsible operations in our 
supply chain, and good corporate citizenship.
We measure the realisation of the social responsibility with the following indicators, for which we have set Group-level 
targets ( targets for 2015 and 2016 ):
• Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) and Lost Workday Injury Frequency (LWIF), own personnel
• Lost Workday Injury Frequency (LWIF), contractors
• Number of serious occupational accidents, own personnel and contractors
• Percentage of sickness-related absences (in 2016)
Additionally, we have a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits (aspect: supplier labour practices). 
 Policies Safety management is based on Fortum’s sustainability policy. 
Other key elements steering labour practices and safety management are presented in the section Policies and 
commitments . 
We assess safety risks as part of the Group’s risk assessment process.
Everyday safety management is guided with about 20 Group-level Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) instructions and 
EHS training events. The Group-level instructions are supported by local-level instructions, which address in more detail 
the material safety issues and local special requirements. They include, e.g., nuclear power plant safety and dam safety. 
The instructions cover Fortum employees and contractor employees. 
Personnel management is based on Fortum’s human resources policy and the supporting Group-level HR processes: strategic 
planning, recruiting, personnel development, performance management, remuneration, and employment and workforce 
administration.
Responsibilities  Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and management .
Monitoring and follow-up  Fortum employee and contractor injury frequency and the number of serious accidents are reported monthly to Fortum 
Executive Management. The key indicators for safety are reported regularly to Fortum’s Board of Directors and are 
published in Fortum’s Interim Reports. 
The divisions and sites develop their operations with audits required by occupational safety and quality management 
systems. Internal and external auditors regularly audit our OHSAS 18001 standard-compliant management system. 
Starting at the beginning of 2016, work wellbeing, indicated as a percentage of sickness-related absences, will be measured 
and reported to the Fortum Executive Management every quarter. Work wellbeing is also monitored through other Group-level 
indicators, such as the ratio between actual retirement age and the statutory start of the retirement pension.  
Monitoring work well-being is also part of the Fortum Sound employee survey. The survey’s well-being index measures 
employee views on, e.g., the openness of the dialogue in the work community, personal accountability, and how 
challenging work tasks are. 
We assess the level of operations of our business partners through pre-selection and supplier audits . The results of 
the supplier surveys and audits assessing the realisation of labour rights and practices are recorded along with corrective 
measures into the supplier database, which is accessible to all Fortum employees. Fortum has set a Group target for the 
number of audits, and the audits that are conducted are reported quarterly to operative management. 
For coal, we use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the supply chain. The Bettercoal audits 
are always conducted by third parties. 
We map our stakeholders' views annually with the One Fortum survey and with separate sustainability surveys.  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
12
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Human rights
 Fortum’s management of sustainability in the area of Human rights in 
social performance is described in the table. Additionally, more 
detailed information on the management of the different aspects and 
impacts is presented by topic on our sustainability web pages.
Read more
Human rights Management of social 
responsibility: human 
rights Description
 Targets and approach Our goal is to operate in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and to apply these 
principles in our own operations as well as in country and partner risk assessments and supplier audits.
 
Our social responsibility includes operating as a good corporate citizen and taking care of our own employees and the 
surrounding communities. We advance the well being and safety of the work community, respect for individuals, and 
mutual trust and responsible operations in our supply chain and more broadly in society.
 
We have set a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits .
 Policies Key elements steering human rights management are presented in the section Policies and commitments .
Responsibilities  Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and management .
Monitoring and follow-up  We assess the level of operations of our business partners through pre-selection and supplier audits .
 
The results of the supplier surveys and audits assessing the realisation of labour rights and practices are recorded along 
with corrective measures into the supplier database, which is accessible to all Fortum employees. Fortum has set a Group 
target for the number of audits, and the audits that are conducted are reported quarterly to operative management.
 
For coal, we use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the supply chain. The Bettercoal audits 
are always conducted by third parties.
 
The divisions and sites develop their operations with internal and external audits required by occupational safety and 
quality management systems.
 
Country-specific reports that address also human rights are presented to Fortum’s Board of Directors and Fortum 
Executive Management when needed.
 
We map our stakeholders' views annually with the One Fortum survey and with separate sustainability surveys.  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
13
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Society
 Fortum’s management of sustainability in the area of Society in social 
performance is described in the table. Additionally, more detailed 
information on the management of the different aspects and impacts 
is presented by topic on our sustainability web pages.
Read more
Social responsibility Management of social 
responsibility: societyDescription
 Targets and approach We believe that an excellent financial result and ethical business are intertwined. We follow good business practices and 
ethical principles in all our operations. We compete fairly and ethically and work within the framework of applicable 
competition laws and Group competition instructions. We avoid all situations where our own personal interests may 
conflict with the interests of the Fortum Group. Notably, we never accept or give a bribe or other improper payment for 
any reason.
 
Our customer relations are based on honesty and trust. We treat our suppliers and subcontractors fairly and equally. We 
select them based on their merit and we expect them to consistently comply with our requirements and with Fortum’s 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
 Policies  Key elements steering social and compliance management are presented in the section Policies and commitments .
Responsibilities  Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and management .
Monitoring and follow-up The risk assessment on compliance is part of the Group’s risk assessment process, and the results are reported twice per 
year as part of the business performance assessment process. Significant risks and violations are reported regularly to the 
Audit and Risk Committee.
 
Fortum has a channel available to all stakeholder groups for the  reporting of misconduct .
Product responsibility
Fortum’s management of sustainability in the area of Product 
responsibility in social performance is described in the table. 
Additionally, more detailed information on the management of 
the different aspects and impacts is presented by topic on our 
sustainability web pages.Management of social 
responsibility: product 
responsibilityDescription
 Targets and approach Our goal is to present products and services truthfully in all our marketing and communication materials. We do not 
present misleading statements and we strictly follow responsible marketing communication guidelines. In statements 
regarding environmental issues, we follow the regulations for environmental marketing.
 
We have set Group level targets ( targets for 2015 and 2016 ):
• Customer satisfaction
• Reputation  
 Policies  Elements of our management practices related to product responsibility are presented in the section Policies and 
commitments .
Responsibilities  Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and management .
Monitoring and follow-up The availability of power plants are reported monthly to Fortum Executive Management. 
The Group’s key indicators are reported regularly also to Fortum’s Board of Directors and are published in Fortum’s interim 
reports. 
 
Customer satisfaction is monitored annually with the One Fortum survey and the EPSI customer satisfaction survey. The 
results of the surveys are presented to Fortum’s management and they are used to develop the business. Customer 
satisfaction and Fortum’s reputation are part of the Group-level sustainability target setting, and they are reported annually 
to the Board of Directors.
 
Compliance is reported twice per year as part of the business performance assessments.   Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
14
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Policies and commitments
 
Sustainability management at Fortum is strategy-driven and is based 
on the company’s values, the Code of Conduct, the Supplier Code 
of Conduct and the policies and their specifying instructions defined 
at the Group level. The company’s Group-level policies are approved 
by Fortum’s Board of Directors. The Group-level instructions are 
approved by either the President and CEO or by the head of the 
function responsible for the instruction.
International commitments and initiatives
Fortum has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative since 
June 2010, and joined the UN Caring for Climate initiative in 2013. 
Fortum supports and respects the following international initiatives 
and commitments, and national and international guidelines, and 
they guide our operations in the areas of economic responsibility, 
environmental responsibility and social responsibility.International and national initiatives, commitments and guidelines
 Economic 
responsibilityEnvironmental 
responsibility Social 
responsibility: 
Labour 
practices and 
decent work Social 
responsibility: 
Human rights Social 
responsibility: 
SocietySocial 
responsibility: 
Product 
responsibility
The UN Universal Declaration of 
Human rights   x  x   
International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural 
Rights x   x  x   
International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights   x  x   
The UN Convention on the 
Rights of the Child   x  x   x
The core conventions of the 
International Labour 
Organisation   x  x   
The UN Global Compact 
initiative x  x  x  x  x  
The UN Caring for Climate 
initiative  x     
The UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights   x  x  x  
The statutes of the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational 
Enterprises x  x  x  x  x  x
The International Chamber of 
Commerce’s anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption guidelines x     x  
The Bettercoal initiative’s Code 
on responsible coal mining x  x  x  x  x  
Responsible advertising and 
marketing guidelines      x
Environmental marketing 
guidelines      x  Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
15
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Fortum’s internal policies and instructions
Fortum’s main policies and instructions guiding sustainability 
are listed in the table. The public documents can be accessed 
through the links.
Development and training related to instructions in 2015
Fortum’s Code of Conduct  and the related online training were 
updated in 2015. The Supplier Code of Conduct was revised towards 
the end of 2014. We report on the training related to the updated 
codes in the section “ Business ethics and compliance ”.
We provide training in competition law through an online training 
course and tailored classroom training. Additionally, competition law 
is part of the online training related to the Code of Conduct.
Fortum has Group-level EHS guidelines and minimum requirements 
that set requirements for all the operations for which we have 
operative responsibility. In 2015 we updated these guidelines and 
trained more than 500 employees in the revised requirements.
Read more
Operational and Occupational safetyFortum’s internal policies and instructions
 Economic 
responsibilityEnvironmental 
responsibility Social 
responsibility: 
Labour 
practices and 
decent work Social 
responsibility: 
Human rights Social 
responsibility: 
SocietySocial 
responsibility: 
Product 
responsibility
Values  x  x  x  x  x  x
Code of Conduct  x  x  x  x  x  x
Supplier Code of Conduct  x  x  x  x  x  x
Group Risk policy  x  x  x  x  x  x
Sustainability policy  (including 
environmental, and health and 
safety policies) x  x  x  x  x  x
Minimum requirements for EHS 
management  x  x  x  x  
Biodiversity guideline   x    x  
Guidelines on sustainability 
assessment  x  x  x  x  
Human resources policy    x  x  x  
Accounting manual  x     x  
Group manual on investment 
evaluation and approval 
procedure x     x  
Group instructions for anti-
bribery x     x  
Group instructions for 
safeguarding assets x     x  
Group instructions for conflicts 
of interest x     x  
Group instruction on 
Competition Law x     x  
Security guidelines   x x  x  x  
Sponsorship steering document      x    Key sustainability topics Governance and management   Policies and commitments  Business ethics and compliance
16
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Business ethics and compliance
We believe there is a clear connection between high standards of 
ethical business practices and excellent financial results. As an 
industry leader, we go beyond simply obeying the law: we embrace 
the spirit of integrity and uphold ethical business conduct wherever 
we operate.
Code of Conduct sets the basic requirements
The Fortum Code of Conduct and Fortum Supplier Code of Conduct 
define how we treat others, engage in business, and safeguard our 
corporate assets, and how we expect our suppliers and business 
partners to operate. We have zero tolerance for corruption and 
fraud. Fortum’s Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s 
mission and values and has approved the Fortum Code of Conduct. 
The Supplier Code of Conduct, based on the 10 principles of the UN 
Global Compact, has been approved by the Head of Procurement in 
collaboration with the purchasing steering group.
Fortum’s Code of Conduct  and the related online training 
were updated in 2015. By the end of the year more than 95% of the 
personnel had completed the updated online training. The members 
of Fortum’s Board of Directors had also completed the training. 
The online training on the Code of Conduct is part of the induction 
programme for new employees.
The Supplier Code of Conduct was revised towards the end 
of 2014 by updating e.g. the anti-corruption guidelines. Training 
related to the Supplier Code of Conduct was held in 2015 in Finland, 
Sweden, Poland and in India in January 2016. The training will be 
held for other countries during 2016. The Code of Conduct has been 
included in new contracts and is part of any purchase agreement 
exceeding EUR 50,000. These agreements account for about 95% of 
our total purchasing volume, and geographically they target mainly 
Finland, Sweden, Russia, Poland and Estonia.In line with our Code of Conduct, Fortum does not award 
donations to political parties nor to any kind of political activities, 
religious organisations, authorities, municipalities or local 
administrators.
 
Risk identification and management
The compliance risks targeting our business operations are related 
to the potential for bribery or corruption, fraud and embezzlement, 
non-compliance with legislation or company guidelines, conflicts 
of interest, improper use of company assets, and working under 
the influence of alcohol or drugs. These risks are managed as part 
of Fortum’s operational risk management framework and control 
procedures. This process also includes risks related to sustainability. 
A systematic compliance risk assessment is included in the annual 
business planning process and reporting, and follow-up is a part of 
the operational performance review.
 
Reporting misconduct
In addition to internal reporting channels, Fortum has an external 
“Raise a concern ” channel. The same mechanism is used for 
reporting any suspected misconduct relating to the environment, 
labour practices or human rights violations, and it is available to 
all stakeholders. In Russia, Fortum has a separate compliance 
organisation in place and employees there are encouraged to use 
the channels provided by the compliance organisation. They may, 
however, also use the “Raise a concern” channel should they so wish.
Suspected misconduct and measures related to ethical business 
practices and compliance with regulations are regularly reported to 
the Fortum Executive Management Team and to the Board’s Audit 
and Risk Committee.
 
Suspected cases of misconduct in 2015
A total of 159 (2014: 225) reports of suspected misconduct were 
made. Of these cases, 115 (2014: 98) led to an investigation; at the 
end of the year, there were 26 ongoing investigations.
More than half of the investigated cases were related to non-
compliance either with company rules or with laws and regulations. In 
these cases, corrective action was taken by reviewing and developing 
existing processes and instructions and by providing training to 
employees. Fortum has zero tolerance towards alcohol and drug 
use. About a third of the cases were related to alcohol abuse during 
working hours.As the result of the investigations, 9 (2014: 9) employment 
contracts were terminated either by immediate dismissal or by mutual 
agreement, and 7 (2014: 11) written warnings were given. There were 
8 (2014: 4) cases of misconduct reported to the police. There was no 
cause for action to be taken in 5 (2014: 23) of the cases investigated.
No cases of suspected corruption or bribery related to Fortum’s 
operations were detected in 2015. Regarding the two misconduct 
cases reported in 2014, the local district court in Sweden issued a 
final ruling. In both cases, the former Fortum employees were found 
guilty of accepting a bribe.
Fortum also requires its goods and service suppliers as well as 
its business partners to comply with a zero tolerance policy towards 
corruption and bribery. As part of supply chain management, we 
requested a report from a few goods and service suppliers regarding 
possible cases of misconduct and the corrective measures taken 
related to the operator’s own activities. The reports were considered 
sufficient and didn’t lead to the termination of a contract. 
We deal with potential cases of corruption in a professional 
manner, in accordance with the defined compliance investigation 
process, in line with applicable laws and with respect to the rights and 
personal integrity of all parties involved.
 
Restricting competition
There were three ongoing investigations cases in Russia in 2015 
targeting the Russia Division’s heat business. All three cases involved 
technical disputes related to a customer’s connection to the heat 
network. In Russian legislation, these kinds of cases are assessed 
within the framework of the regulation on abuse of a dominant market 
position.
One of the investigations cases was completed during the year. 
The Russian competition authority noted found that the Russia 
Division’s heat business had not violated the competition law.
During the year Fortum was not subject to any significant 
monetary fines for competition law violations.
 
Other significant fines
In Sweden, the Värmland district court issued a final ruling 
ordering Fortum a fine of SEK 2 million (EUR 210,000) for a May 
2014 hydropower plant accident that resulted in the fatality of a 
contractor’s employee.Read more
Environmental grievances
Labor practices and human rights grievances
Incidents of discrimination
Fines related to environmental non-compliances Economic impacts  Customer satisfaction and reputation  Supply chain management
17
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Economic responsibility
For Fortum, economic responsibility means competitiveness, 
performance excellence and market-driven production, which create 
long-term value for our stakeholders and enable profitable growth. 
We manage our supply chain in a responsible manner. Fortum 
aims for performance excellence through continuous development 
of our operational efficiency and our core processes. A company 
that is financially strong is able to shoulder its responsibility for 
the environment, take care of its personnel, meet the needs of its 
customers and support the development of the entire society.
Fortum measures its financial performance by monitoring the 
return on capital employed and the capital structure. We report 
regularly on the direct and indirect financial impacts on our most 
important stakeholder groups. Fortum also uses the applicable 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators to measure economic 
responsibility. Different sustainability indexes and our own One 
Fortum stakeholder survey also measure the development and 
continuous improvement of our operational responsibility.
Economic impacts
 
Fortum is a significant economic actor in Finland, Sweden, Russia, 
Poland, Norway and the Baltic countries. We continuously monitor 
the impact and well-being generated by our operations to our 
stakeholders. The key stakeholders include shareholders and 
investors, customers, personnel, suppliers of goods and services, and 
the public sector.
The most significant direct monetary flows of Fortum’s 
operations come from sales revenue from customers, procurements 
from suppliers of goods and services, compensation to financiers 
and dividend to shareholders, growth and maintenance investments, employee wages and salaries, and taxes borne.
Our operations also have indirect economic impacts. The 
Finnish State owns 50.76% of Fortum’s shares, and we contribute 
to a functioning society by, among other things, paying taxes and 
dividends. These secure society’s basic functions and build well-
being. Investments and the procurement of goods and services 
provide employment both locally and outside our operating areas. 
In terms of suppliers of goods and services, we also assess the 
global impacts, paying particular attention to suppliers of goods and 
services operating in risk countries. The wages and taxes paid have a 
positive impact on local communities.Distribution of added value 2015
Distribution segment is presented as discontinued operations for year 2015 and comparative period information for 2014 has been restated accordingly.
The impact of discontinued operations includes the total net cash flow from the divested electricity distribution operations , including the proceeds of the divestment.Distribution of added value
INVE STORS AND SHAREHOLDERS  
EUR /one.fitted,/one.fitted/one.fitted/nine.fitted million 
(EUR /nine.fitted/five.fitted/one.fitted MILLION )
SUPPLIERS  
EUR /one.fitted,/six.fitted/two.fitted/three.fitted million 
(EUR /two.fitted,/one.fitted/zero.fitted/five.fitted MILLION )INVE STMENT S 
EUR /five.fitted/seven.fitted/zero.fitted million 
(EUR /six.fitted/nine.fitted/one.fitted MILLION )
PUBLIC  SECTO R 
EUR /three.fitted/five.fitted/one.fitted million 
(EUR /four.fitted/five.fitted/five.fitted MILLION )PERSONNE L 
EUR /three.fitted/five.fitted/one.fitted million 
(EUR /three.fitted/six.fitted/nine.fitted MILLION )Econom ic Performance
Distribution segment is present ed as discontinued operations for year 2015 and comparativ e period information for 2014 has been r estat ed accordingly .
The impact of discontinued operations includes the total net cash ﬂ ow from the divested electricity distribution operations,  including the proceeds from the divestment.IMPACT OF DISCONTINUED  OPERATION S
EUR /six.fitted,/four.fitted/five.fitted/seven.fitted million
(EUR /two.fitted,/nine.fitted/one.fitted/one.fitted MILLION )CUSTOMER S 
EUR /three.fitted,/five.fitted/one.fitted/seven.fitted million 
(EUR /four.fitted,/three.fitted/zero.fitted/nine.fitted  MILLION )DIVESTMENT S 
EUR /five.fitted/five.fitted million 
(EUR /four.fitted/nine.fitted/nine.fitted MILLION ) Economic impacts  Customer satisfaction and reputation  Supply chain management
18
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
In 2015, the difference between added value generated and 
distributed to stakeholders was EUR 128  (2014: 928) million for the 
development of own operations.
Read more
Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to climate change, emission trading
Sustainability indexes
Financial Statements 2015
The distribution of the economic added value generated by our 
operations to the most significant operating areas is reported in the 
following parts of the annual reporting:
• Sales by country based on customer location: Financial 
 Statements, Note 5
• Employee costs by country 
• Tax footprint
We have included investments in our own assessment of economic 
impacts, as their annual volume and impact on the society is 
significant. Capital expenditure by country and by production type is 
presented in Financial Statements Note 19.2. Capital Expenditure.  
Provisions related to nuclear power are covered in the financial 
statement, Note 30. Nuclear related assets and liabilities.
In 2015 we received financial support from the public sector in 
the form of production-related subsidies, investments, R&D and other 
significant grants (over EUR 0.5 million) totalling EUR six (2014: 3) 
million. The figure excludes free emission allowances and electricity 
certificates as well as electricity and heat price related subsidies.Monetary flows by stakeholder group in 2013–2015 (GRI G4-EC1)
 Economic impacts  Customer satisfaction and reputation  Supply chain management
19
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Read more
Customers
Stakeholder collaborationCustomer satisfaction and reputation
Fortum has several million customers, and customer satisfaction is 
a top priority for Fortum’s value creation. We have set Group-wide 
targets for customer satisfaction and for Fortum’s reputation.We invested in customer centricity in 2015
Our Group-wide development programme, Customer in the centre, 
has strengthened our culture of customer centricity and has 
increased the collaboration and shared ways of operating between 
our countries of operation. Developing user-friendly service channels 
and customer applications has improved customer satisfaction. 
During the year we redesigned our web site to be responsive, and the 
share of mobile users increased. New energy-efficiency services have 
been developed in closer collaboration with customers.
Our investments in customer-centric operations resulted in 
improved customer satisfaction.
 
One Fortum survey provides information about all stake -
holder groups
We use the extensive One Fortum survey to annually measure 
customer and stakeholder satisfaction as well as changes in the 
company’s reputation and the factors that impact it. The survey 
covers customers, public administrations, capital markets, non-
governmental organisations and opinion makers as well as Fortum’s 
personnel. In Finland and Sweden, we also survey the views of the 
general public.
As in the previous year, in 2015 we conducted the survey 
in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, the Baltic countries and 
Russia. Over 4,000 customers and 3,500 other stakeholders were 
interviewed for the One Fortum survey.
 
Improved customer satisfaction and reputation 
in the One Fortum survey
Fortum’s customer satisfaction improved in virtually all customer 
groups in 2015. Business customers of electricity sales, district heat 
and the Power Solutions unit were more satisfied with our operations 
than before. Satisfaction also improved among private customers of electricity sales, while satisfaction among private customers of district 
heat remained at the same level. We are pleased with the positive 
trend in customer satisfaction during the last five years that the One 
Fortum survey has been conducted.
Fortum has a strong reputation among public administration 
representatives. Our reputation improved the most in this group, 
compared to the previous year. Our reputation improved also among 
non-governmental organisations, opinion makers, personnel, and 
customers and is now good in all of these groups. Our reputation 
continues to be weakest among the general public; our reputation 
remained at the previous year’s level in Finland and improved slightly 
in Sweden. Fortum has a very good reputation in the capital markets, 
but analysts were not included in the 2015 survey. Based on the 
survey results, we should focus particularly on social responsibility 
and on taking customers into even more consideration in the future.
 
Customers satisfaction in electricity sales improved
The international and independent EPSI Rating annually surveys the 
level of satisfaction of electricity retail company customers in Finland, 
Sweden and Norway. Based on the 2015 EPSI survey, Fortum’s 
customer satisfaction improved in all three countries where we offer 
electricity products and services.
Our customer satisfaction rating in Norway increased to 75.6, 
which is clearly better than the industry average of 72.0 and is third 
best of the electricity companies in Norway. We also achieved our 
all-time best rating in Finland. Our result in Sweden was 64.4, which 
meant a 1.8 point improvement compared to 2014.
 
Customer satisfaction 1) in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-PR5) 
 Economic impacts  Customer satisfaction and reputation  Supply chain management
20
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Supply chain management
Fortum is a significant purchaser of goods and services. We actively 
strive to reduce the environmental impacts caused by our operations 
and to improve economic and social wellbeing. We also manage 
risks related to our supply chain. The aim is that open and efficient 
collaboration creates value for both parties.
Fuel purchases and investments in a significant role
Fortum’s purchasing volume in 2015 was EUR 2.2 (2014: 2.6) 
billion. Fuel purchases, investments, and electricity purchased by the 
Electricity Sales business area from the Nordic wholesale electricity 
market for retail sales accounted for the majority of Fortum’s 
purchases. The purchasing figures for 2014 and 2015 do not include 
the sold Distribution business.Fortum’s fuel purchases in 2015 totalled EUR 567 (2014: 782) 
million. We purchase fuels from international and local suppliers. Our 
fossil fuel purchases totalled about EUR 482 (2014: 689) million, 
biofuels about EUR 46 (2014: 55) million, and nuclear fuel about  
EUR 39 (2014: 38) million.
Of our purchases, EUR 527 (2014: 622) million targeted various 
investments. The biggest investments, EUR 285 million, were made in 
Russia. A large share of the investments are contracted out in full with 
materials, installation and other service as well as contractor work 
included in the total purchase.
The rest of our purchases, EUR 1,1 (2014: 1,2 ) billion, consist of 
other goods and services. The figure includes electricity purchased 
by the Electricity Sales business area from the Nordic wholesale 
electricity market for retail sales. The other goods and services 
purchases were related to operations and maintenance as well as to 
other functions, such as IT solutions, marketing and travel.
Purchases, EUR million Purchases excluding investments in 2013-20151)
Half of purchases from Europe
About half, i.e. 48%, of the purchasing volume was purchased from 
suppliers operating in Europe, mostly in Finland, Sweden and Poland. 
This does not include electricity purchases from the Nordic wholesale 
market. 52% of Fortum’s purchases were from risk countries. The 
majority of these purchases were from Russia.
Violations related to work conditions and human rights are more 
likely in risk countries than in non-risk countries. Fortum’s risk-
country classification is based on the ILO’s Decent Work Agenda, the 
Human Development index published by the UN, and the Corruption 
Perceptions index published by Transparency International.
In 2015 we had about 9,700 (2014: 10,500) suppliers of goods 
and services, 1,300 of them were in risk countries. Excluding the 
Russia Division’s local suppliers, there were about 270 suppliers in 
risk countries.
 
 Economic impacts  Customer satisfaction and reputation  Supply chain management
21
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Sustainable fuel purchasing
The most significant environmental impacts of our supply chain 
are related mainly to fuels, particularly to coal and biomasses. We 
recognise that open-pit coal mining can be challenging in terms of 
environmental protection, and working conditions in underground 
mines can create occupational health and safety concerns. The 
acquisition of biomass involves environmental risks, such as illegal 
logging and loss of biodiversity, but there are also economical, social 
and reputational risks related to human rights, labour rights and land 
ownership.
Fuel purchases in 2015
In fuel purchasing, special attention is paid to the origin of the fuel 
and to responsible production. In 2015 we had 117 suppliers in our 
fuel supply chain, 8% of them operated in risk countries.
 
Natural gas
The natural gas used in Russia, the Baltic countries and Finland 
originated from several suppliers in Russia. The natural gas used in 
Poland was purchased mainly from Poland.
Coal
The coal used in Finland originated from Russia. The coal used in 
Poland originated mainly from Poland. The power plants in Russia 
used coal originating from Russia and Kazakhstan.
In Finland, we have a legal obligation to have an amount of 
fuels in reserve equivalent to three months of average electricity 
production. There are no similar legal obligations in other countries, 
but we do maintain sufficient reserves for uninterrupted energy 
production in all countries where we operate.
Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal initiative, and uses the 
Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the coal 
supply chain.  The 2015 Bettercoal audits are described in more 
detail in  Sustainable supply chain .Biomass
The biomass we used consisted of wood pellets, wood chips, 
industrial wood residues and agrobiomass that originated from 
Finland, the Baltic countries, Russia, Belarus and Poland. We are 
developing measures to verify the traceability and sustainability of 
biofuels. In 2016 we will strengthen and standardise the agreement 
requirements related to the origin of wood-based biofuel, and we 
aim to set a target for the use of wood-based biofuel from certified 
sources.
A verification system established for the bio-oil production at 
the bio-oil plant integrated with Fortum’s Joensuu power plant was 
approved at the end of 2014. The verification system is used to prove 
compliance with nationally legislated sustainability criteria for bio-oil. 
In 2015 the first Fortum Otso® verification certificates were given to 
domestic and foreign customers. The verification certificates enable 
customers to prove that the combusted Fortum Otso® is a carbon 
dioxide-free fuel.
Uranium
The fuel assemblies used at the Loviisa power plant are completely 
of Russian origin. The fuel supplier acquires the uranium used 
in the fuel assemblies from Russian mines in accordance with 
Fortum’s agreement. In 2015, the uranium originated from the 
Krasnokamensk, Khiagda and Dalur mines.
Both ARMZ Uranium Holding Co., a uranium producer, and 
TVEL, which is responsible for refining and manufacturing uranium, 
have environmental and occupational safety systems in place in all 
their plants. All three uranium mines have ISO 14001 environmental 
certification. The Khiagda mine has an OHSAS 18001 certified 
occupational health and safety management system, and certification Origin of fuels used at Fortum in 2015 1)
is under way at the Dalur mine. The zirconium material manufacturing 
plant and the plant responsible for manufacturing uranium oxide 
pellets and fuel assemblies have ISO 14001 environmental 
management system certification and OHSAS 18001 occupational 
health and safety management system certifications.
We regularly assess the quality, environmental, and occupational 
health and safety management systems of our nuclear fuel suppliers 
and the manufacturing of nuclear fuel assemblies. As part of the 
collaboration between the different companies in the supply chain 
of uranium to be manufactured into fuel, Fortum’s representatives 
assessed the operations of the uranium mine co-owned by Fortum’s 
Russian uranium supplier in Kazakhstan in summer 2015. The mine’s 
sustainable operations represented best practices in the sector, 
and its quality, environmental, occupational health and occupational 
safety management systems and its energy efficiency management 
system were certified.
Read more
Fuels
Fuel consumption 2015 Economic impacts  Customer satisfaction and reputation  Supply chain management
22
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Sustainable supply chain
 We expect our business partners to act responsibly and to comply 
with the Fortum Code of Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Fortum’s key tools in supply chain management are country and 
counterparty risk assessments, pre-selection of suppliers and 
 supplier audits. 
Codes of conduct cover basic requirements
The Fortum Code of Conduct forms the foundation for ethical 
business conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct includes the 
sustainability requirements for suppliers of services and goods. 
The Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact initiative and is divided into four 
sections: business practices, human rights, labour standards, and the 
environment. The country and counterparty risk assessment follows 
the same basic structure with regards to sustainability, and addresses 
issues like the implementation of the guiding principles of human 
rights.
The Supplier Code of Conduct is used in all our countries of 
operation and is included in all purchase agreements exceeding EUR 
50,000. The Supplier Code of Conduct was updated in 2014, and at 
the beginning of 2015 we started internal training on the 
requirements of the updated Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2015 the 
training was held in Finland, Sweden and Poland. Personnel in India 
received training in early 2016. The training in our other countries of 
operation will be arranged during 2016.
 
Pre-selection of suppliers was renewed
We assess the level of operations of our business partners through 
pre-selection and supplier audits. The pre-selection process was 
renewed during 2015, and it is made whenever the purchase volume 
exceeds EUR 50,000. The goal is to better identify risk suppliers and 
to direct further measures towards these suppliers. During the first 
phase of the pre-selection, the credit check is made, and the supplier 
is sent a short written questionnaire. The questionnaire surveys the 
supplier’s possible operations in risk countries, certified management 
systems, and the occupational safety level of the contractors. We pay 
special attention also to anti-corruption practices.
If potential risks in the supplier’s operations are identified through 
the questionnaire, a more extensive self-assessment questionnaire 
may be sent or a supplier audit is conducted.  The extensive self-
assessment questionnaire is always sent to fuel suppliers.The Russia Division uses its own supplier pre-selection process. 
Pre-selection is done in accordance with Russian procurement law, 
and bidding is open to all companies. In the Russian operations, we 
set supplier requirements for business principles and ethics.
 
Supplier audits support assessments
In supplier audits, we assess the supplier’s compliance with the 
requirements in Fortum’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Our own 
personnel are responsible for conducting the supplier audits. Audits 
are always done on-site, and they include production inspections, 
employee interviews, and reviews of documents and records. If 
non-compliances are found, the supplier makes a plan for corrective 
actions and we monitor the implementation of them.
Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal initiative and uses the 
Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the coal 
supply chain. Bettercoal audits are always conducted by a third, 
accredited party. In 2015, one of Fortum’s Russian coal supplier was 
audited, and the audit process for another coal supplier was under 
way at the end of the year. 
 Supplier audits in 2015
In 2015 we audited a total of nine suppliers in Poland, Czech 
Republic, Russia, Kazakhstan and India; our focus in India was on 
potential solar plant contractors.
Most of the non-compliances identified in the audits were 
related to occupational safety, overtime hours, remuneration,  and 
management of the suppliers’ own subcontractors. The audits 
conducted did not reveal non-compliances related to freedom 
of association, discrimination, or child or forced labour, but we 
did give a recommendation to an Indian contractor to strengthen 
its age verification practices when hiring new employees. The 
recommendations we gave regarding environmental issues involved, 
among others, measuring emissions, setting environmental targets, 
reducing water use, improving sorting effectiveness, and improving 
chemical safety.
Our goal in 2016 is to audit 15 suppliers. Our goal is also to take 
into use a simplified, lighter auditing model. The lighter model will 
enable also our purchases personnel to verify a supplier’s practices. 
Additionally, in 2016 we will assess the possibility to increase the 
number of supplier audits by collaborating with an external service 
provider in conducting audits.
Suppliers audited in 2015 by supplier type Suppliers audited in 2015 by country23
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Fortum wants to be part of building a sustainable energy future. 
Energy efficiency and climate change mitigation, and reducing 
environmental impacts are emphasised in our environmental 
responsibility. Our know-how in CO2-free hydro and nuclear power 
production and in energy-efficient combined heat and power 
production, our investments in solar and wind power as well as 
our solutions for sustainable cities play a key role in this. Through 
research and development activities, we are creating prerequisites for 
environmentally benign energy solutions.
Energy production causes various environmental impacts. Some of 
them are global or wide-reaching, some are regional or local. In terms 
of Fortum’s operations, the key environmental impacts include:
• Climate change 
• Acidification
• Diminishing non-renewable fuels 
• Diminishing biodiversity  
 
The management and reduction of these environmental impacts is 
a central part of our environmental responsibility. We have set the 
Group-level targets for the following environmental responsibility 
indicators:  
• Specific CO2 emissions from total energy production
• Improvements in energy efficiency
• Significant environmental non-compliancesVarious sustainability indices and our own One Fortum stakeholder 
survey also measure the development and continuous improvement 
of our responsibility. 
More emissions-free energy 
Climate change is a consequence of carbon dioxide emissions 
caused by the use of fossil fuels. We can reduce our carbon dioxide 
emissions primarily by increasing the use of renewable and low-
carbon energy sources. Fortum’s strengths are know-how in carbon 
dioxide-free hydro and nuclear power production and in the use 
of renewable and low-carbon fuels in combined heat and power 
production. We are also developing next generation energy solutions, 
like solar, wind and wave power. 64% of the electricity we produced in 
2015 was carbon dioxide-free. 
 
Combustion technology solutions
Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions cause acidification of 
soil and water systems. We can reduce these emissions with flue-gas 
cleaning technology. Additionally, we can impact sulphur emissions 
by choosing fuels with lower sulphur content. And nitrogen oxide 
emissions can be reduced by developing the combustion technology. 
Special expertise in combustion technology is, in fact, one of 
Fortum’s strengths. In addition to our own power plants, we have 
supplied combustion technology solutions to several other energy 
companies.
 
Energy, efficiently
Fortum uses plenty of both renewable and non-renewable fuels in 
its electricity and heat production. Even though the world’s coal and 
natural gas resources will last for several more decades, sustainable 
energy production and climate change mitigation require a transition 
to the use of renewable energy sources. Our vision of the solar 
economy supports precisely this development. The continuous 
improvement of energy efficiency also plays a key role in terms of 
the sufficiency of natural resources. Improving our own operational 
efficiency has given us specialised expertise in energy efficiency 
improvements, and we have provided energy efficiency services to 
many other energy companies.   
Solutions for sustainable cities
Growing cities and urban areas are facing multiple challenges, such 
as high emissions from inefficient heating, cooling and electricity 
production, increasing amounts of waste, and high traffic pollution 
and noise. Fortum aims to use its expertise and experience to help 
cities solve these challenges sustainably and to support building a 
circular economy. Fortum’s solutions include efficient and reliable 
district heating and cooling, integrated electricity retail solutions and 
related applications, waste-to-energy and waste treatment, as well 
as enhancing e-mobility with smart charging solutions for electric 
vehicles.
We take care of biodiversity
Biodiversity is a significant aspect for Fortum, especially in 
hydropower production. The damming of rivers and the variation 
in water levels and flow rates due to hydropower production cause 
changes in aquatic habitats. We actively take part in research 
activities in the sector and implement voluntary and permit-based 
measures to develop the biodiversity and recreational use of built 
water systems.
 
We study environmental impacts of procurements
The environmental impacts in our procurement activities are 
substantial, primarily in the acquisition of fuels. Fortum acquires 
different type of fuels from numerous suppliers. We require our fuel 
suppliers to comply with Fortum’s Supplier Code of Conduct. We 
study environmental impacts related to fuel procurements as part of 
the preselection of suppliers and through supplier audits.Environmental  responsibility
Read more
Our energy production
Our sustainability targets
Combustion technology services
Energy efficiency services for industrial customers
Energy efficiency services for private customers
Supply chain management24
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Environmental key figures
 The table presents our key figures for environmental responsibility in 
2015. More information about these and other key figures is available 
in our sustainability reporting by topic.Key figures for environmental responsibility
Our carbon dioxide emissions in the EU decreased by 1.4 million 
tonnes. The decrease was mainly attributable to the reduced 
production of coal-fired condensing power in Finland. The decrease 
in emissions supports Finland’s national targets and the EU’s shared 
targets for the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. Our carbon 
dioxide emissions in Russia grew by nearly 300,000 tonnes, mostly 
due to the commissioning of all units at the Nyagan power plant.
Improvements to energy efficiency have advanced faster than 
expected, thanks to, among other things, the energy efficiency 
programmes implemented in Russia. Already 89% of the target set for 
2020 has been achieved. Energy efficiency improvements save fuel 
and reduce emissions.
These factors contributed also to a decrease in our specific 
carbon dioxide emissions. The five-year average for specific carbon 
dioxide emissions from our electricity production in the EU was 50 
g/kWh, which is clearly better than the target of 80 g/kWh. The 
five-year average for specific carbon dioxide emissions from our total 
energy production was 191 g/kWh, which is better than the target 
level of 200 g/kWh.
The specific carbon dioxide emissions from our electricity 
production are low compared to other European electricity producers. 
Our specific carbon dioxide emissions in the EU in 2014 were about 
one-eighth of the average specific carbon dioxide emissions of 313 
g/kWh of major European electricity companies. Including Russia, 
our emissions totalled less than 60% of the European average. 
European comparison data for 2015 is not yet available.
Specific carbon dioxide 
 emissions of Fortum’s total 
energy production    
in 2013-2015Annual energy savings   
achieved in 2013-2015Number of major EHS incidents  
in 2013-201525
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Sustainable energy production
The cornerstones of Fortum’s energy production are carbon dioxide-free hydro and nuclear power and 
energy-efficient combined heat and power production.
Fortum’s total power generation in 2015 was 75.9 TWh and total heat production was 32.2 TWh. Total 
power generation and heat production by energy source are presented in the following tables. The tables 
have been consolidated in accordance with the boundaries applied in financial reporting. The figures for 
power generation include also production shares in the hydro, wind and nuclear power plants of associated 
companies.
64% (2014: 64%) of our total power generation was carbon-free and 34% (2014: 32%) was produced 
from renewable energy sources. About 8% of our heat production was produced from renewable, carbon-free 
energy sources.
Read more
Energy productionPower generation by energy source in 2013–2015 (GRI G4-EN3)
Heat production by energy source in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN3)
New, energy-efficient production capacity
In 2015 we commissioned the following new, renewable electricity production capacity:
• Kapeli solar power plant , India, 10 MW
• Refurbishments of hydropower plants, Sweden and Finland, 31 MW
In heat production, we commissioned the following new energy-efficient capacity:
• Suomenoja heat pump station, district heating capacity 40 MW, cooling capacity 15 MW
• Joensuu power plant’s flue-gas condenser,  district heating capacity 30 MW
In Russia, the first new unit of the  Chelyabinsk GRES  power plant was completed. Fuelled by natural gas, 
its electricity production capacity is 247 MW and heat production capacity 174 MW. Another power plant 
unit of the same size will be completed in the first half of 2016.
 
During the year we started construction of a  new CHP plant in Poland . The plant will be completed in 
2018. It can use waste-derived fuels, coal, and various biomass fuels. The plant will replace the old Zabrze 
and Bytom coal-fired power plants. The investment will significantly improve the efficiency of electricity 
and heat production in the area and, consequently, reduce carbon dioxide and other emissions into the 
environment.
 
More wind power
We made a decision in 2015 to grow our share in the  Blaiken wind farm in Sweden  with three wind 
turbines, which will be commissioned in 2017. We also decided on the construction of a 35-MW  wind farm 
in the Ulyanovsk area of Russia . This wind farm is also scheduled for completion in 2017.
 
Developing wave power
Our wave power research project in Sotenäs in Sweden  moved ahead, when the first wave power 
generators started to generate electricity to the Swedish National Grid.26
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Climate change mitigation
In our opinion, the scientific evidence of climate change is clear 
and the message of the latest IPCC report (November 2014) is 
stronger than ever: the time to act is now. A significant step forward 
in international climate collaboration was made in December 2015, 
when a universal climate agreement was reached in Paris. The Paris 
Climate Agreement will take effect in 2020.
Energy production is a significant source of greenhouse gases 
globally.  At the same time, however, electricity produced with 
renewable energy sources and district heating and cooling are 
significant solutions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Climate change is a threat and an opportunity
Fortum is exposed to physical risks of climate change, including 
changes in weather patterns that could alter energy demand and 
supply. Higher precipitation and temperatures may affect hydropower 
production, dam safety and bioenergy supply and availability. In 
addition to climate change mitigation, we are also adapting our 
operations to climate change and taking climate change into 
consideration in production planning and in evaluating growth 
projects, for example.
We expect the concern about climate change to increase the 
demand for low-carbon and energy-efficient energy products and 
solutions. We believe that our know-how in carbon-free hydro and 
nuclear power, in energy-efficient CHP production, in wind and solar 
energy, as well as in research and development of the future energy 
system and its technologies will prove to be a competitive advantage 
for the company.
 Towards low-emissions production
Fortum’s primary means of mitigating climate change is to reduce 
production emissions. We are investing in carbon-free production in 
Europe, switching to lower emissions fuels at our existing plants and 
improving the energy efficiency of our production. We see business 
opportunities also in providing climate-benign energy solutions for 
sustainable urban living and electrification of transport.
In Europe, we produce carbon-free electricity at hydro and 
nuclear power plants and at combined heat and power (CHP) plants 
that utilise biomass, bio liquids and waste-derived fuels. 97% of our 
electricity production in the EU area was carbon-free in 2015. The 
rest of the electricity was produced mainly with coal.
Our electricity production in Russia is based entirely on fossil 
fuels, mainly on natural gas. Our new plant units in Russia are based 
on gas turbine technology, which represents the best available 
technology in natural gas combustion. Including Russia, about 64% of 
our electricity production is carbon dioxide-free.
 
New climate-benign production
The following projects improving energy efficiency and reducing 
carbon dioxide emissions were completed in 2015:
• Kapeli solar power plant  in India
• Suomenoja heat pump station in Finland
• Joensuu power plant’s  flue-gas condenser  in Finland
• Refurbishment projects for hydropower plants in Sweden and 
Finland
• Energy efficiency improvements of turbine plants at the Argayash 
and Chelyabinsk CHP 3 power plants in Russia
We have calculated that these projects will reduce annual carbon 
dioxide emissions by about 150,000 tonnes.
Sustainable energy page  describes our power plants under 
construction and decided new developments.
 
Innovative fuels
The bio-oil plant constructed next to the Joensuu power plant started 
production during 2015, producing about 8,300 tonnes of bio-oil. The 
major part of this was used in Fortum’s own heat plants. The bio-oil 
was also delivered to Savon Voima in Finland and for test use to 
EON’s Karlshamn power plant in Sweden.
We launched the pilot “HorsePower” service in Finland in 2015. 
With this service, Fortum delivers bedding to horse stables and picks up the bedding-manure mixture for combustion at the Järvenpää 
power plant. The pilot project will continue until March 2016, when a 
decision will be made on continuation of the service.
 
Climate-benign products and services
We offer our customers a range of energy products and services to 
help them improve their energy efficiency and reduce their carbon 
footprint.
 
Carbon pricing and emissions trading
Climate regulation primarily impacts Fortum through the price 
of carbon dioxide determined in EU emissions trading. This also 
determines the financial value for emission reductions. The price of 
emission allowances has to a large extent been passed on to the 
electricity price in the Nordic electricity markets. In accordance 
with the objective of emissions trading, the price of carbon dioxide 
emissions is a financial incentive to produce electricity with 
emissions-free production forms and to improve the efficiency of 
energy production and use. The price of carbon dioxide increases the 
production cost of fossil-based energy, but it also raises the prices 
of energy products. The best way to reduce the risk related to the 
price of carbon dioxide is to increase carbon-free and low-carbon 
production.
Russia does not have a similar emissions trading scheme for the 
regulation of greenhouse gases, nor do carbon dioxide emissions 
currently have economic value.
We want to promote global carbon pricing and the establishment 
of a global carbon market. Fortum has signed the Carbon Price 
Communiqué, an international business statement for setting a price 
on carbon emissions. We also participate in several international 
business initiatives promoting the role of business in climate change 
mitigation, including Caring for Climate, under the UN Global 
Compact, and Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, by the World 
Bank.  27
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
EU emissions trading scheme
Over 95% of carbon dioxide emissions from our energy production 
in Finland, Poland and the Baltic countries is within the sphere of 
the EU’s emissions trading scheme. We had a total of 48 (2014: 49) 
plants in five member countries within the EU’s emissions trading 
scheme in 2015. Fortum was granted free emission allowances 
corresponding to 1.3 (2014: 1.4) million tonnes per year. Our carbon 
dioxide emissions within the EU’s emissions trading scheme were 2.1 
(2014: 3.6) million tonnes. So in terms of the emissions allowances, 
we had a deficit and had to purchase the shortfall of emissions 
allowances from the markets.
Fortum’s view is that emissions trading is the most cost-efficient 
way to achieve emissions targets. In our view the Emissions Trading 
Scheme (ETS) should be the key means for realising the EU climate 
targets also in the future. However, the functionality and emission 
ceiling of the ETS need to be developed further. In late 2014, the EU 
approved the greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for 2030. 
A market stability reserve mechanism  for the emissions trading 
scheme was approved in 2015 and will be deployed at the beginning 
of 2019. Additionally, the EU Commission presented a proposal to 
revise the emissions trading directive for the post-2020 period.
 
Carbon funds
Fortum is currently a participant in the international Prototype Carbon 
Fund (PCF) climate fund. In 2015 we received a total 180,000 CER 
emission reduction units from the fund. We have so far received a 
total of 1,240,000 emission reduction units, and we estimate that we 
will still receive about 170,000 units during PCF’s operating period.Direct greenhouse gas emissions in 2013-2015  
(GRI G4-EN15) Direct CO2 emissions by country in 2013-2015 
(GRI G4-EN15)
Greenhouse gas emissions 2015
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2015 totalled 24.1 million tonnes. Scope 1 emissions were 19.3 million tonnes, Scope 2 emissions 0.1 million 
tonnes, and Scope 3 emissions 4.7 million tonnes.
Direct greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 1
Our direct greenhouse emissions were 19.3 (2014: 20.5) million CO2-equivalent tonnes. The share of carbon dioxide from our direct greenhouse gas 
emissions was over 99%. The share of direct greenhouse gas emissions from our total greenhouse gas emissions was 80.1%. Of the direct carbon 
dioxide emissions, 89% (2014: 82%) originated from the Russian operations and 7% (2014: 11%) from Finland. Carbon dioxide emissions increased in 
Russia with the commissioning of the new capacity and decreased in Finland due to the reduction in condensing power production. Fortum’s direct 
biogenic carbon dioxide emissions were 1.3 (2014: 1.3) million tonnes.
The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions covers carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, fluorinated hydrocarbons and SF6. Carbon dioxide 
emissions as well as methane and nitrous oxide emissions have been calculated on the basis of plant-specific fuel data. The amounts of HFC 
compounds and SF6are reported on the basis of the amounts of gas added to the equipment. Specific gas emission factors are based on IPCC 
publications.
 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 2 
Greenhouse gas emissions from the production of electricity purchased for our own use were 85,400 (2014:136,000) tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent. Carbon dioxide emissions accounted for over 99% of this.
The share of Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions of our total greenhouse gas emissions was 0.4%.
Scope 2 emissions have been estimated on the basis of country-specific breakdowns of electricity production.
 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN16)
Read more
Our energy production
Climate benign products and services
Fortum’s position on the development of the EU 
climate policy28
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 3
The majority of our Scope 3 emissions are caused by the production 
and transportation of fuels, purchases of goods and services, 
and investments. Other activities (e.g. employee travel and waste 
management) account for less than 1%.
Our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in 2015 were an 
estimated 4.7 (2014: 5.0) million tonnes. The share of Scope 3 
emissions was 19.5% of our total greenhouse gas emissions. We 
estimate that all of our Scope 3 greenhouse gases come from fossil 
energy sources.
We report Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in accordance 
with the requirements of the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Accounting and Reporting standard. The volumes describing 
the scope of the various activities have been obtained from our 
monitoring and reporting system. In calculating emissions from the 
categories ”Purchased goods and services” and ”Capital goods” 
we have included only the purchasing categories defined by our 
Corporate Procurement. In 2015, about 37% (2014: 30%) of our 
total purchasing volume was undefined and was excluded from the 
calculation because of lacking initial data.
The specific emission factors used in calculating the greenhouse 
gas emissions are based on different literature sources. Categorisa -
tion of our purchasing will be further developed e.g. to reduce the 
share of undefined purchases. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 
in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN17)
Specific carbon dioxide emissions
Our specific carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1) from total energy 
production were 181 (2014: 189) g/kWh. The five-year average, 
including 2015, was 191 (2014: 198) g/kWh. The five-year average 
of specific carbon dioxide emissions from total energy production 
started decreasing last year and is now clearly below the target level 
of 200 g/kWh. The main reason is the decrease in condensing power 
production in Finland.
Our specific carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1) from power 
production in the EU were 21 (2014: 39) g/kWh and the five-year 
average, including 2015, was 50 (2014: 60) g/kWh. The specific 
 carbon dioxide emissions from our power production are low com -
pared to other European power producers. Our specific emissions 
in 2014 were about one-eighth of the 313 g/kWh average specific 
emissions of major European utilities.
Including our Russian power production, our specific emissions 
in 2015 were 166 (2014:177) g/kWh, which was about 60% of the 
average level of European utilities in 2014. European reference data 
for 2015 is not yet available.
 Specific carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1) from total 
energy production in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN18)
Specific carbon dioxide emissions of major European 
utilities, g/kWh electricity in 2014
The boundary for electricity production’s specific carbon dioxide 
emissions differs from other environmental reporting. Fortum’s 
production shares in associated companies are also included. This 
production is based on hydro and nuclear power and doesn’t cause 
direct carbon dioxide emissions. In the calculation of electricity production’s specific emissions, 
CHP plant emissions have been allocated for electricity and heat 
using the efficiency method presented in the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol guidelines, with heat production efficiency of 90% and 
electricity production efficiency of 40%.Read more
Emissions into airFortum’s carbo n exposure among the lowes t in Europ e, g CO/two.fitted/kWh  electricity , /two.fitted/zero.fitted/one.fitted/four.fitted
1,200
1,000
800600
400
2000
DEI
RWE
DraxSSECEZ
Vattenfall
EDP
E.ONA2AEnel
Gas Natural FenosaEnBWENGIE
Dong Energy
Iberdrola
Fortum total
PVOEDF
Verbund
Fortum EU
Statkraft
Note: Only European generation except “Fortum total” which includes Russia.
Fortum’s speciﬁ  c emissions of the power generation in 2015 in the EU were 21 g/kWh and in total 166 g/kWh.
Source: PWC, Novembre 2015, Chang ement climatique et Électricit é, FortumAverage 313 g/kWh
177
3929
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Energy efficiency services for private customers
Energy efficiency services for industrial customersImproving energy efficiency
 
Energy efficiency is a key factor in energy production – from both 
an economic and environmental perspective. Improving energy 
efficiency at power plants refers to measures we implement to 
increase the efficiency of production processes or reduce the energy 
consumption of plants or equipment. This enables us to produce 
more electricity or heat for our customers without increasing the 
amount of fuel.
The energy efficiency of power plants can be increased with 
technical modifications, by systematic and preventive maintenance, 
and by training personnel in the optimal operation of the plant and 
in monitoring the plant’s operating economy.  Improving power plant 
availability also increases energy efficiency, as unnecessary start-ups 
are reduced.
Energy-efficiency investments
In fuel-based energy production, we aim to utilise the fuel’s energy 
as efficiently as possible. Our most important means to improve 
the energy efficiency of fuel use is to increase combined heat and 
power (CHP) production. In CHP production, up to 90% of the energy 
content of the fuels can be utilised; separate electricity production’s 
efficiency is about 60% at best.
At the end of 2015 we commissioned a new natural gas-powered 
CHP unit at our Chelyabinsk GRES power plant in Russia. The new 
unit’s output is 247 MW electricity and 174 MW heat. Another similar 
unit will be completed in the first half of 2016. Construction of a new 
CHP power plant started in Zabrze, Poland. The plant is scheduled for 
completion in 2018. The new power plants will replace existing old 
plants and thus improve the efficiency of energy production in the 
area.
 The following were some of the energy-efficiency improvement 
projects completed in 2015:
• Kapeli solar power plant in India
• Suomenoja heat pump station in Finland
• Joensuu power plant’s flue-gas condenser in Finland
• Refurbishments of hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland
• Refurbishments of turbine plants in Russia
In all, the energy-efficiency improvement projects implemented in 
2015 are calculated to yield an annual energy savings of 559 GWh.
 
Target within reach
Fortum’s target is to achieve an annual energy savings of more than 
1,400 GWh by 2020 compared to 2012. By the end of 2015, about 
1,240 GWh of this target had been achieved.
We are participating in the European electricity sector’s  Energy 
Wisdom programme , and we report to the programme on our 
projects that improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse 
gases.
 
Energy efficiency services for businesses…
For decades now, our operation and maintenance services have been 
improving the energy efficiency of our customers’ power plants. Our 
energy-efficiency services and expertise bring our customer plants 
financial benefits and save the environment.
 
…and for homes
We have introduced many energy-efficiency services for private 
customers in Finland and Sweden. Fortum’s customers can use the 
new services to, e.g., monitor their energy consumption in real-time 
and optimise the heating of their home.30
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Our fuelsEnergy intensity 2015
  We used a total of 116,000 GWh (417 PJ) of fuel in 2015 in our 
electricity and heat production. Additionally, we acquired 398 
(2014: 401) GWh electricity from external energy suppliers  With 
these energy resources we produced 35,741 GWh of electricity, 
31,229 GWh of heat, 18 GWh of cooling and 39 GWh of bio-oil. 
The total energy consumption, calculated as the difference between 
the procured energy resources and net production, was 49,300 GWh, 
or 178 (2014: 167) PJ.
In combustion-based energy production, we aim to utilise the 
fuel as efficiently as possible. In 2015, our average fuel use efficiency 
was 64% (2014: 64%). The efficiency has been calculated by dividing 
the energy (electricity and heat) produced with the fuel by the energy 
content of the fuel used in the production.
 The energy intensity of our own production was 1.33 (2014: 
1.37). The intensity figure has been calculated by dividing the amount 
of used energy resources by the total net production of energy 
products; hydropower and solar power are included in production.
Fuel consumption 2015
 Fortum’s fuel consumption in own energy production was 116 
terawatt-hours (TWh), or 417 (2014: 422) petajoules (PJ). The most 
significant fuel was natural gas, which accounted for 65% (2014: 65%) 
of the total fuel consumption. The shares of uranium and coal were 
22% (2014: 19%) and 9% (2014: 11%), respectively.
Fuel use in 2013-2015, energy (GRI G4-EN-3)
Biomass and bioliquids accounted for 2.7% 
(2014: 3.0%) and waste-derived fuels 0.6% 
(2014: 0.5%) of our total fuel consumption.
 
The energy-specific fuel consumption has been 
calculated based on the usage volumes and 
fuel-specific heating values measured at the 
power plants. Uranium consumption has been 
calculated as the thermal heat generation in the 
reactors.
 
Fuel use in 2013-2015, mass/volume (GRI G4-EN1)
Fuel use by country in 2015 (GRI G4-EN1)
Russia accounted for 99% of our use of natural gas 
and 53% of our use of coal. Russia’s share of our 
total fuel use was about 70%.31
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Voluntary hydropower related environmental projects
Environmental impacts of hydropower production
Bra Miljöval eco-labelled energy projects (In Swedish)
Sustainable fuel purchasingBiodiversity
 The loss and degradation of biodiversity is one of the biggest 
environmental problems globally. We need to know our impacts and 
dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystem services to be able to 
assess related risks and opportunities.
Our impacts on biodiversity
Fortum’s impacts on biodiversity are primarily related to its 
hydropower production operations in Finland and Sweden. 
Hydropower construction and the related regulating of water alter 
the conditions in water systems and thus impact the diversity of 
the aquatic habitat and, in particular, the fish population. Emissions 
from fossil fuel-based energy production may decrease local 
biodiversity, especially in Russia. In addition, our fuel procurement 
may have a negative impact in areas that are rich in biodiversity. 
However, our production of CO2-free energy replaces energy 
production based on fossil fuels and thus mitigates climate change, 
which is globally one of the greatest threats to biodiversity.
 
Fortum’s biodiversity engagement
Fortum’s Biodiversity guidelines set the principles for taking 
biodiversity into consideration and for managing the impacts of 
the company’s operations on biodiversity. Since 2014, we have 
participated in the activities of the Finnish Business & Society’s 
(FiBS) Corporations and Biodiversity programme.
Fortum has compiled its position statement and has defined 
actions for the sustainable use of bioenergy in electricity and 
heat production. The position statement and actions contribute 
to improved traceability of these biomass fuels and responsible 
management of fuel purchases. Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal 
initiative and uses the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the 
sustainability of the coal supply chain. Biodiversity aspects related to 
coal mining are covered in Bettercoal assessments. We aim to minimise our negative impact on biodiversity. The 
impacts on biodiversity are assessed in projects. We offset and 
reduce the impacts of hydropower production on biodiversity by 
stocking and over-dam transferring fish and through voluntary 
environmental projects. In Sweden, we carry out biodiversity related 
projects with the financing from our eco-labelled (Bra Miljöval) 
electricity.
 
Our actions in 2015
Restoration of flood plain areas at Lake Kiantajärvi
The wide flood plain areas along the banks of Lake Kiantajärvi 
were restored  in a cooperation project  in 2013-2015. The total 
surface area of the flood plain area is ca. 2.1 km2, and the actions 
carried out in 2015 targeted about quarter of it. Canals and small 
ponds were dug into the flood plain to form diverse shelter areas 
and a fragmented shoreline.
The flood plain areas offer important resting and feeding areas 
for several migratory bird species, and as many as 105 species 
have been reported in bird surveys. By comparison, the average 
number of species in similar areas close by is usually between 
50-70. According to the local environmental authority, the actions 
increased the vital habitat for migrating birds and improved the 
reproduction areas of spring-spawning fish.
 
Restoring river stretches by tearing down dams
In 2015 we tore down two old dams in Sweden to restore the river 
to a more pristine state.
The River Getaån has been dredged to facilitate log driving, 
but when the Geadammen dam was torn down vital parts of the 
river were restored. By returning rocks to the stream, the habitat 
was diversified and the flow made more natural. This improved the 
biodiversity and conditions for stream-living fish, such as trout. A 
more natural flow will probably also have a positive impact on the 
wetlands downstream.
The Brodammen dam downstream from the Ljunga hydropower 
plant was torn down. The river stretch is affected by a changed flow 
regime from the hydropower plant, but it still has good potential 
for both bottom fauna and grayling. By tearing down the dam 
and restoring the river stretch, suitable habitats for grayling and 
many species of insects are restored and free passage for fish are 
created. 
Biofuels actions
We annually collect data on the volume of certified wood fuel used 
in our power plants in Finland, Sweden, Poland and the Baltics. 
Certified wood fuel originates from sustainably managed forests 
in which special attention is paid to biodiversity. In 2016 we will 
strengthen and standardise the agreement requirements related to 
the origin of wood-based biofuel, and we aim to set a target for the 
use of wood-based biofuel from certified sources.
 
Other biodiversity related projects
In 2015 a mapping of environmental values was done for most of 
the Swedish rivers where Fortum is a major hydropower operator. 
Occurrence of red-listed species and sensitive fish stocks were 
used as indicators of high environmental values. Hotspots of 
biodiversity and relevant measures for preserving and supporting 
future colonisation of endangered species, while at the same time 
maintaining hydropower production, were identified. Possible 
measures are, e.g., restoring shores and tributaries as well as 
tearing down dams with limited function. The mapping and 
prioritisation of measures will continue in 2016.
 
Fortum has also been involved in several long-term projects with a 
focus on biodiversity, for example:
• In the lower part of Dalälven: a project with Upplandsstiftelsen 
to manage about 330 ha of land with the goal of conserving 
and developing the very high environmental values in the area. 
Measures include controlled burnings and cutting down spruce 
to support the deciduous forest.
• Eldbäcken biochannel: Follow-up on the colonisation of different 
species and function as a fishway, in collaboration with the 
University of Karlstad. The biochannel was created in 2011 
to compensate for lost biodiversity in connection with the 
construction of the Eldforsen hydropower plant.
• A study on downstream migration of a genetically unique 
population of River Klarälven salmon.32
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Greenhouse gas emissionsEmissions into air
Fuel-based energy production creates emissions to air: carbon 
dioxide, advancing global climate change, as well as flue-gas 
emissions, like sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particles, causing 
local environmental and health impacts.
Nitrogen oxides are generated in all combustion from the 
nitrogen contained in the fuel and in the combustion air. Sulphur 
dioxide, in turn, is generated from the sulphur contained in the fuel. 
Sulphur is an impurity in, e.g., coal, peat and oil. Particle emissions 
are fine-grained ash generated primarily in the use of solid fuels.
Requirements are getting tighter
It is possible to decrease nitrogen, sulphur and particle emissions 
through fuel selections and various flue-gas cleaning technologies. 
The EU has set very strict limits for these emissions; meeting the 
requirements necessitates the use of Best Available Technology 
(BAT). Our nitrogen, sulphur and particle emissions have, in fact, 
decreased significantly in our European production over the past 
decades. Emission limits became even stricter when the Industrial 
Emissions Directive came into force in 2016. Our power plants meet 
the new emissions requirements, for the most part. Investments 
in air pollution control have to be made in upcoming years at the 
Suomenoja power plant and the Rejtana heat plant in Poland.
 
World-class combustion technology
Nitrogen oxide emissions from our power plants have been decreased 
primarily by developing the combustion technology. Additionally, our 
Meri-Pori power plant has a catalytic nitrogen removal system. We 
have world-class know-how in combustion technology, and, in fact, 
we have delivered combustion technology solutions also to other 
power utilities.
 
Sulphur emissions are decreasing
Our Meri-Pori and Suomenoja power plants are equipped with a 
desulphurisation plant. Sulphur emissions at our other coal- and peat-
fired power plants have been decreased by acquiring low-sulphur fuels and by increasing the use of biomass. The flue-gas condenser 
completed in 2015 at the Joensuu power plant significantly 
reduces the plant’s sulphur and particle emissions. In Poland, we 
are constructing a new CHP plant; it will replace the old Zabrze 
and Bytom power plants by the end of 2018. The new plant will 
significantly reduce all emissions to air.
 
Stricter standards also in Russia
Currently over 70% of our SO2 and NOx emissions and over 95% of 
our particle emissions originate from our Russian production plants, 
where emissions are limited in accordance with Russian legislation. 
The new legislation currently being drafted in Russia will bring stricter 
emissions standards in the future. Also in Russia we can reduce 
emissions by combusting higher quality coal.
 
Emissions in 2015
In 2015, our thermal energy production generated 26,800 (2014: 
28,700) tonnes of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, 19,900 (2014: 
20,400) tonnes of sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions and 17,800 (2014: 
21,300) tonnes of particle emissions. The decline in sulphur and 
nitrogen emissions was primarily due to the decrease in condensing 
power production in Finland. Carbon dioxide emissions are reported 
on the section  Greenhouse gas emissions in 2015 .
 Fortum’s SO2, NOx and particle emissions 
in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN21)
85% (2014: 77%) of the flue-gas emissions (SO2 and NOx) and 98% 
(2014: 98%) of the particle emissions originated from the Russian 
operations. The most significant source of particle emissions (12,700 
tonnes in 2015) was the Argayash power plant in Russia.
Our mercury emissions into air were 105 (2014: 126) kg.
The reporting of emissions from our European power plants is 
based on continuous measurement. At our Russian power plants 
and at most of our heat plants, emissions are calculated using fuel 
consumption data and specific emission factors. Specific emission 
factors can be based on measurements taken at regular intervals or 
on information from the equipment supplier.
33
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Environmental non-compliances and incidentsWater use
 
Fortum uses large volumes of water at various types of power plants 
and in district heat networks. In most cases our power plants do not 
consume water, but the water is discharged back to the same water 
system from where it was withdrawn. The properties of the water may 
change in the process, but the volume of the water generally remains 
unchanged. In some cases, water is transferred to another recipient, 
e.g. through evaporation into the air from cooling towers, leaks into 
the ground from district heat piping, or through the discharge of 
wastewater to a municipal sewage system.
Hydropower production is a special case of water use. Water 
flowing in a river is conducted through a turbine to generate electricity. 
No water is consumed nor are the properties of water altered in the 
process. However, the water system is often regulated for hydropower 
production, and the regulation changes the water flow and level 
patterns compared to their natural state. Fortum does not report water 
flows in rivers as water use related to hydropower production.
Cooling water 
Condensing power production requires large volumes of cooling water. 
Cooling water accounts over 90% of Fortum’s total water withdrawal 
annually.
Fortum’s big condensing power plants in Finland are located on 
coastal area and use direct sea water cooling. No water is consumed 
in the process and the water withdrawn is discharged back into the 
sea. The only change is an approximately 10 °C increase in the 
temperature of the cooling water.
 Condensing power is occasionally produced also at our CHP 
plants. In most cases, the cooling water is withdrawn from a local 
water system. In Russia and Poland, cooling towers are used, so some 
of the cooling water evaporates into the atmosphere.
 
District heating network
Fortum is a major supplier of district heating in Finland, Russia, Poland 
and the Baltic countries. Fortum has a total of about 2,700 kilometres 
of district heat pipes in these countries. Water is used as the heat transfer media in the district heat networks. Some water is lost 
through leaks that occur in the pipes, so occasionally water must be 
added to the district heating network.
 
Process water and other water uses 
A thermal power plant needs water in the water-steam cycle when 
electricity is generated with a steam turbine. Because of leaks in the 
pipes, occasionally water must be added to the water-steam cycle. 
Water is also needed in some auxiliary processes, e.g. in SO2 removal 
with wet scrubber technology and in liquid radioactive waste handling 
and storage at nuclear power plants.
 
Water withdrawal
The Baltic Sea and local fresh water systems are the most important 
water sources for Fortum’s water withdrawal. Municipal tap water is 
used mainly at CHP plants in major cities. In some cases, water is 
acquired from a near-by industrial facility of another company.
The majority of Fortum’s power and heat production capacity is 
located in Finland, Russia and Poland. Our thermal power plants are 
not located on a water critical area in any of our operating countries. 
Water is used to clean solar panels at our Indian solar power plants. 
Even though the water volumes are relatively small, alternative water 
sources and purification methods are being explored in India.
 
Wastewater
Wastewater generated at power plants is either treated at the power 
plants’ own wastewater treatment plant and discharged into a water 
system or it is piped to a municipal wastewater system for further 
processing. In Russia, the wet method is used to pump ash from power 
plants into ash ponds. Part of the water from the ponds is recycled 
back to the power plant and part is released into a water system after 
sedimentation.   
Wastewater contains solids and nutrients, like nitrogen, phosphor, 
and heavy metals. Wastewater effluents can impact local water quality 
as well as the nutrient and oxygen balance of the water system.
 
Water withdrawal in 2015
We withdrew a total of 2,138 (2014: 2,186) million m3 of water in 
2015. Sea water accounted for 70% of this amount.
Of the water we withdrew, we used the majority, 2,060 (2014: 2,094) 
million m3, as cooling water. The Loviisa nuclear power plant withdrew 
from and discharged to the sea 1,403 million m3 of cooling water.Water withdrawal in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN8)
Water use in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN8)
 The reported water withdrawal and water use volumes are based 
on flow measurements at power plants and heat plants.
 
Wastewater in 2015
Our plants generated a total of 34 (2014: 33) million m3 of wastewater, 
of which 96% was released into the environment after being treated 
and 4% was piped to municipal wastewater treatment plants. 
About 1.2 tonnes of oil was released into water systems with 
wastewater. In addition, 3.8 tonnes of oil was relased into rivers 
from hydro power plants. In recent years there have been frequent 
violations of wastewater permits at Russian power plants. They have 
been discussed in more detail on page Environmental incidents.
The thermal load discharged into water systems with cooling water 
was 17 (2014: 18) TWh. Loviisa nuclear power plant’s share of this was 
16 TWh. Temperature measurements indicate that the cooling water 
has increased the temperature of surface water by 1–2 °C within a 1–2 
kilometre radius from the discharge point.
 The reported wastewater volumes are based on flow 
measurements at our power plants and heat plants.   
Wastewater emissions by recipient in 2013-2015  
(GRI G4-EN22)
34
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Nuclear power
The final disposal of spent nuclear fuelWaste and by-products
 
Various types of waste and by-products are generated in electricity 
and heat production. Ash is a by-product of the use of fuels, and 
gypsum and other desulphurisation products are by-products of 
flue-gas desulphurisation. Ash and desulphurisation products account 
for a more than 90% share, on average, of the by-products and waste 
from our energy production.
Power plant maintenance generates scrap metal and other 
conventional industrial waste and, to a smaller extent, waste oil and 
other waste classified as hazardous. We aim to recycle by-products 
and waste whenever possible. Waste that is unsuitable for recycling 
or reuse is disposed of in a landfill. We source waste management 
services only from reliable, properly licensed waste management 
companies.
In addition to conventional industrial waste, the Loviisa nuclear 
power plant also generates radioactive waste, which we treat 
in accordance with the requirements of Finnish nuclear energy 
legislation. The volume of radioactive waste generated is small, but 
special solutions are needed in their treatment and final disposal.
The total volume of by-products and waste generated at our 
power and heat plants in 2015 was about 601,000 (2014: 697,000) 
tonnes. Of this volume, 33% was recycled or reused.
Ash and gypsum 
Ash is created in the combustion of all solid fuels. Over half of the 
ash from our plants operating in Europe is utilised as a raw material 
in, e.g., the construction industry, road construction and soil 
improvement, and as backfill. In Russia, ash from our power plants is 
stored in ash basins because there is no demand for wet ash sludge 
in Russia.
Desulpurisation generates either a wet or semi-dry 
desulphurisation end product. Gypsum created as a by-product in the 
wet desulphurisation process at our Meri-Pori power plant is suitable 
for use as a raw material for the construction industry, and, on 
average, over 90% is utilised. The desulphurisation product created at the Suomenoja power plant is not suitable as such for utilisation.
 In 2015, about 570,000 (2014: 659,000) tonnes of ash, 2,300 
(2014: 9,800) tonnes of gypsum and 8,800 (2014: 9,800) tonnes of 
other desulphurisation product were generated. About 60% of the ash 
was generated at Russian plants, 15% in Poland and 11% in Finland. 
The reduced volume of ash and gypsum was primarily a result of 
the decreased condensing power production in Finland.  The ash 
recycling rate was 33% (2014: 34%) and the gypsum recycling rate 
100% (2014: 100%).
 Any remaining by-products that cannot be utilised are disposed 
of in landfills or put into intermediate storage. In 2015, about 
390,000 (2014: 444,000) tonnes of by-products were disposed of in 
landfill sites.
The reported volumes of ash and gypsum from our European 
power plants are based on the weighing of the truckloads. Ash 
volumes at our Russian power plants are calculated on the basis of 
the ash content of the coal.
 
Radioactive waste
Nuclear power plant operations generate conventional waste and 
radioactive waste. Conventional waste is generated e.g. in the 
transportation of goods, in building and maintenance work, and in 
office work.
The treatment of low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste 
Ash and gypsum handling in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-EN23)from our Loviisa power plant is described on Loviisa power plant’s 
web pages.
High-level spent nuclear fuel is currently stored at the Loviisa 
power plant site, waiting for the ultimate disposal in  Posiva Oy’s 
final repository  in Olkiluoto in the municipality of Eurajoki. Posiva 
is jointly owned by Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima. In 2015, 21.8 
(2014: 22.7) tonnes of spent nuclear fuel was removed from Loviisa 
power plant’s reactors.  2.7 (2014: 2.9) g/MWh of spent fuel was 
generated per produced energy unit.
 
Other waste
Conventional waste generated during the operation and maintenance 
of power plants is sorted, and waste that can be recycled (e.g. scrap 
metal) is sent for further processing. Waste that cannot be utilised 
is disposed of in a landfill or is stored so that harmful substances do 
not seep into the environment, air, soil, or surface and ground waters. 
Hazardous waste is delivered to licensed hazardous waste treatment 
facilities.
Our operations generated a total of 27,200 (2014: 27,700) 
tonnes of waste (excluding the ash and gypsum deposited in landfills); 
of this amount, 1,700 (2014: 2,500) tonnes was hazardous waste. In 
addition, 2,100 tonnes of contaminated soils was removed.
 The reported volumes of other waste are based mainly on the 
information provided by the waste companies.
Waste handling in 2013-2015
35
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 Environmental key figures  Sustainable energy production  Climate change mitigation  Improving energy efficiency  Biodiversity  Emissions into air  Water use  Waste and by-products  Environmental incidents
Read more
Business ethics and compliance
Operational and occupational safetyEnvironmental non-compliances and  
incidents
At the Group level we monitor the number of significant EHS 
non-compliances. Major environmental non-compliances are large 
spills (over 100 litres) into the environment, major deviations from 
environmental permit terms, and other non-compliances having a 
significant impact on the environment.Spills and environmental non-compliances in 2015
In 2015 there were two spills of more than 100 litres (2014: 3) 
into the environment. At the Chelyabinsk CHP2 power plant about 
3m3 of ash transport water was released into the soil. A leak in the 
Tyumen district heat network resulted in hot water and steam being 
released to the ground surface. The events didn’t have significant 
environmental effects. The Tyumen district heat network’s leak 
caused a burn on a pedestrian who intentionally made his way into 
the fenced-off accident area.
In conjunction with modification work to the Kivenlahti heat 
boilers in Finland, instances of ash emissions occurred resulting in 
ash falling onto the roofs of buildings and onto parked cars. Fortum 
paid for 24 cars to be washed and waxed.
 
Permit violations in 2015
There were no significant environmental permit violations in 
our European operations in 2015. The total number of permit 
violations in Russia was 14 (2014: 15). Of these, 12 were related to 
wastewater discharges. Studies continued on measures to reduce 
the discharge water permit violations.
 
Grievances
Fortum’s website has a grievance channel that our stakeholders 
can use to report suspected misconduct or problems caused by our 
operations. No new environment-related grievances were reported 
to us through this channel in 2015.During the year we continued measures to reduce the excessive 
night-time lighting and the noise level previously reported by some 
neighbours of the Jelgava power plant. The power plant has also 
received complaints about biofuel transports on Saturdays and 
public holidays; these deliveries are unavoidable during the winter 
season.
The lighting problem was resolved in early 2015 by changing 
some of the lights to a warmer colour temperature range. To reduce 
the noise level experienced by residents, we continued enclosing 
equipment and implementing other technical solutions, even though 
the noise caused by the power plant’s operations do not exceed the 
permitted limits.
We communicated with the residents about the progress 
of the measures at resident meetings, personally via email, and 
through local media. After the measures were completed, we invited 
residents to an official noise-level measurement conducted by a 
certified laboratory. Six local residents witnessed the measurement 
process. The measurements indicate that the power plant does 
not exceed the permitted noise levels, and all but one of the local 
neighbours are satisfied that the noise issue has now been resolved.
 
Fines
In 2015, Fortum paid a total fine of RUB 11.5 million  
(EUR 167,000) for non-compliances with waste water emission 
limits. Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
36
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Read more
Business ethics and complianceFortum interacts with millions of people through its businesses. We 
engage in an active dialogue with different stakeholder groups and we 
strive to find a balance between their various expectations.  Fortum’s 
social repsonsibility emphasises the secure supply of electricity and 
heat, creating solutions for sustainable cities, plant and occupational 
safety, as well as ethical business operations and compliance with 
regulations .The most important social impacts of Fortum’s operations are: 
• Uninterupted supply of power and heat
• Promoting sustainable development and circular economy 
through products and services
• Uninterupted operation and safe work environment at plants
• Personnel well-being
• Impacts related to the human rights of own and supply chain 
employees 
• Support for non-profit activities and impacts on local communities
Fortum’s innovations and the secure supply of power and heat 
support the development of society and increase well-being. 
Fortum aims to use its expertise and experience to help cities solve 
challenges sustainably and to support building a circular economy. 
Fortum’s solutions include efficient and reliable district heating and 
cooling, integrated electricity retail solutions and related applications, 
waste-to-energy and waste treatment, as well as enhancing e-mobility 
with smart charging solutions for electric vehicles.
Fortum promotes plant and occupational safety and well-being in 
the work community. Fortum’s sustainability approach also includes being a good corporate citizen and taking care of the surrounding 
communities.  We want to support responsible operations in Fortum’s 
supply chain and in society.
Fortum measures its social responsibility by monitoring CHP 
plant energy availability, lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) of own 
personnel and contractors, total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) of 
own personnel,  number of serious accidents and sickness absence 
rate.
Different sustainability indices and our own One Fortum 
stakeholder survey also measure the development and continuous 
improvement of our operational responsibility.Social responsibility
Photo: Lehtikuva Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
37
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
The rate of absence due to sickness remained at a good level and was 2.4% (2014: 2.4%). Starting from 
the beginning of 2016 the sickness absence rate is one of the Group’s sustainability indicators.
An open flow of information and close collaboration between Fortum and its goods and service suppliers 
is mutually beneficial. We want to take care of the impacts of our supply chain and promote responsible ways 
of operating. In 2015 Fortum audited a total of nine suppliers in Poland, Czech Republic, Russia, Kazakhstan 
and India.
Fortum supports activities promoting the common good in society, for example the work of organisations 
and communities in our operating countries. Our goal is for the collaboration to be mutually beneficial. In 
2015 our support for activities promoting the common good totalled about EUR 3.6 (2014: 3.4) million. The 
figures for 2014 and 2015 do not include the sold Distribution business.Social key figures
 The table presents our key figures for social responsibility in 2015. More information about these and other 
key figures is available in our sustainability reporting by topic.
Key figures for social responsibility 
The reliable delivery of energy is a priority for Fortum and ensures an opportunity to create value for our 
stakeholders. The average energy availability of our CHP plants remained at a good level in 2015 (96.4%) and 
we exceeded the set target.
Safe working conditions and personnel wellbeing are an absolute prerequisite for efficient and 
uninterrupted operations. The safety of our own employees has stabilised at a good level. The total 
recordable injury frequency for own employees decreased in 2015, and we achieved the set target. The 
target for lost workday injury frequency per million hours worked for contractors was also achieved. There 
were no accidents leading to a fatality in 2015.
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF), 
Fortum’s personnelPersonnel by country, 31 Dec. 2015
Fortum’s support to society in 2015 by target, % Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
38
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Security of supply
An uninterrupted energy supply is one of the basic prerequisites for modern society. With preventive condition 
monitoring and planned maintenance, we make sure that our power plants are operating reliably when they 
are needed.
Security of supply in 2015
We measure the availability of our CHP and hydropower plants with an energy availability indicator. It is 
calculated by dividing the power plant’s actual production by the theoretical maximum production in the 
period under review. The planned maintenance outages do not affect availability. However, if an outage of 
a CHP plant is longer than planned, this is considered an interruption, which decreases the availability. The 
average energy availability of our CHP plants in 2015 was 96.4% (2014: 94.7%); the target was 95%.
 For hydropower plants, outages due to a failure and unplanned or prolonged outages decrease the 
availability factor only if they lead to spillage. The average energy availability of our hydropower plants was 
99.16% (2014: 99.96%).
The load factor describing the energy availability of the Loviisa nuclear power plant was 92.9%   
(2014: 90.9%), which is high by international standards.
 
 Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
39
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Employees
 
We are a significant employer in the regions where we have ope -
rations. We aim to be a responsible employer that invests in the 
development and wellbeing of personnel.
 
Total workforce in 2015
In 2015 an average of 8,009 (2014: 8,821) employees worked at 
Fortum. The highest number of employees was in Russia, 4,180 
(2014: 4,196) on average.  The number of Fortum’s permanent 
employees on 31 December 2015 was 7,522 (2014: 8,260), i.e. 
96.0% (2014: 96.1%) of the personnel; 7,395 (2014: 8,078) of them 
were full-time employees and 127 (2014: 182) part-time employees. 
In general, Fortum does not use temporary workers.
 Fortum uses contractors mainly in construction and 
maintenance work. Contractor employees worked at Fortum sites for 
a total of approximately 1,327,000 (2014: 1,359,000) days during the 
year. The figure is based on contractors’ hourly logs and on estimates 
based on job costs and average hourly rates. The figure has been 
calculated on the basis of an 8-hour work day.Personnel statistics from 2015, by country of operation
Number of employees, 31 Dec. Personnel by country, 31 Dec. 2015
Workforce by employment contract and employment type, broken down by region and gender (GRI G4-10)
 Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
40
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Employee turnover in 2015
During the year 375 (2014: 619) new employees joined Fortum and 
650 (2014: 668) employment relationships were terminated, of which 
248 were terminated by the employer. Divestments and outsourcing 
reduced the number of personnel by a total of 184 (2014: 468). 
Departure turnover in 2015 was 8.3% (2014: 8.1%). Voluntary 
departure turnover was 4.2%.Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover (GRI G4-LA1)
Service years of the permanent employees in 2013-2015, %
 Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
41
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Diversity and equal opportunity
We promote equal treatment and opportunities in the recruiting, 
remuneration, development and career advancement of personnel, 
regardless of the employee’s race, religion, political views, gender, age, 
nationality, language, sexual orientation, marital status or disabilities. 
Employee diversity in 2015
The average age of our permanent employees was 44,5 years. The 
share of employees over 50 years old was 33%. Women accounted for 
29% (2014: 28%) of our total personnel. Women accounted for 33% 
(2014: 33%) of the Group- and division-level management teams. The 
Board of Directors comprised eight members, three of them, including 
the Chairman, were women.
 
Incidents of discrimination in 2015
Any form of harassment is forbidden and addressed immediately. 
In Finland and Sweden, there are separate guidelines in place for 
workplace harassment and discrimination. In 2015 there was 
one incident of inappropriate conduct reported, which resulted 
in termination of the employment of the perpetrator. One of the 
allegations of discrimination in 2014 was handled through court 
proceedings in 2015. According to the court ruling, the employer was 
found not guilty of discrimination and the case was dismissed.
 
Equal remuneration
In line with our remuneration policy, we offer a fair, transparent and 
competitive compensation scheme for employees. Salaries and wages 
are compliant with established practices in each country and based on 
local legislation and labour market agreements. Salary level is based 
on personal work performance, on defined competence requirements, 
and on the market situation in each country.
The comprehensive implementation of our human resources data 
management system enables the reporting of pay equality in all our 
operating countries. In addition to the centralised HR data management 
system, a separate, local, data system is also used in Russia, and 
therefore the data on Russia’s pay equality is reported separately.
 Our reporting covers all personnel groups except “workers”. A 
comparison in this group is not possible because of the small group 
sizes. The number of personnel in some of our operating countries is 
so small that a country-specific comparison is not reliable. We have 
reported these countries collectively under “Other countries”.
 Personnel age distribution of permanent employees by age group, gender and personnel group (GRI G4-LA12)
Group and division-level management, by age and gender, persons
Remuneration in 2015
In our operating countries in 2015, the base salaries of female 
employees were, on average, 12% (2014: 10%) less than the male 
base salaries in all personnel groups. The total number of personnel 
included in the comparison was 3,089, of which 1,111 (36%) were 
female. The differences varied between countries; years of service 
and job grade levels had the most impact on the differences.
Fortum’s short-term incentive (STI) system includes a personal 
performance indicator. We have included the STI’s personal bonus 
multiplier in the remuneration equality comparison. The difference 
between female and male in the personal bonus multiplier was +3%.
In Russia, the difference between female and male salaries and 
wages was +0.6% for comparable grade levels (1,728 individuals). 
There was no comparison made for the personal bonus multiplier.
Basic salary, remuneration and other key factors of women compared to men, % (GRI G4-LA13) Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
42
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Employee-employer relations
Fortum’s business operations are developed and strengthened in 
good collaboration with employees. We believe that the successful 
management of business is built on relationships of trust between 
management and employees and on the free flow of information. 
Fortum respects employees’ freedom of association and the right to 
collective bargaining.
In our operating countries, freedom of association and collective 
bargaining are guaranteed by law. The exception to this is India, 
which has not ratified the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) 
Convention on the right to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. In India, we comply with the same practices as in other 
countries of operation, and we do not limit or prohibit the right to 
freedom of association.
We apply local collective bargaining agreements in compliance 
with the scope of each respective agreement in all our operating 
countries. Collective bargaining agreements cover about 90% of 
Fortum’s employees.
Share of personnel within collective bargaining agreements, by 
operating country:
• Latvia, Sweden and Russia: 100%
• Finland: 100% (except top management)
• Estonia: 25%
• Poland: 32%
There are no collective bargaining agreements in Lithuania. 
Employment contracts are based on local legislation and on the 
company’s human resources policy.Fortum European Council
Fortum European Council (FEC) convenes, as a rule, once a year. 
FEC is a Europe-level cooperational function in which personnel and 
employer representatives meet to discuss matters related to Fortum. 
In 2015, the Fortum European Council (FEC) held a meeting in May in 
Finland, and personnel representatives from Finland, Sweden, Poland, 
and Estonia participated. The Council’s themed workshops focused 
on, among other topics, the future outlook for the energy industry, 
occupational safety and health, and wellbeing. In addition to Fortum 
European Council meetings, local level meetings are held several 
times a year in different countries based on need. 
 
Restructuring situations
In situations of organisational restructuring, we negotiate with 
personnel representatives in compliance with each country’s 
local legislation and contractual procedures. In situations 
involving personnel reductions, we want to primarily support the 
re-employment of the personnel.
In restructuring situations, the length of the obligatory negotiation 
period depends on the scale of upcoming changes and varies in 
Fortum’s different operating countries. The shortest period for 
obligatory negotiations is three weeks (Finland) and the longest is 90 
days (India).  There is no statutory obligatory negotiation period in 
Sweden, Norway and Lithuania.The minimum notice period is based on local legislation, 
collective agreements or employment contracts, which are in 
harmony with the local legislation and agreements.
 In situations involving personnel reductions, we offer 
outplacement services and, case by case, investigate the possibilities 
to arrange vocational training in cooperation with local unemployment 
authorities or service providers. Retraining for employees who 
continue working is arranged based on organisational and individual 
needs.
In situations involving personnel reductions, the content of the 
support package that we offer is decided based on local needs. The 
financial compensation of the package is usually based on the years 
of employment at Fortum. Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
43
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Employee wellbeing
 A strong and healthy organisation is a prerequisite to successful 
business operations. Fortum takes a proactive approach in supporting 
employee wellbeing and working capacity.
ForCARE work wellbeing model
The goal of the work wellbeing model, ForCARE, is to promote the 
health and occupational safety of our employees by developing the 
work and work environment and by promoting the functionality of the 
work community.
We adopted global ForCare wellbeing themes in 2015. The 
theme for spring was “activeness and energy” and for autumn 
“positive feedback and interaction”. In addition to the themes being 
on the agenda at team meetings, theme-related lectures, wellbeing 
events and activity contests were held. The themes for 2016 will be 
“recovery and sleep” and “activeness and energy”.
We will begin using a new tool in the ForCare work wellbeing 
programme in nearly all our operating countries at the beginning 
of 2016. HeiaHeia is an online and mobile app offering a wealth 
of wellness content to motivate users to live a healthier lifestyle, to 
record physical and wellness activities, to encourage colleagues, and 
to participate in team-spirit initiatives.
 
Wellbeing Booster project
In 2015 we participated in the Sitra-coordinated Wellbeing Booster 
pilot project in Finland. The project tested digital solutions to 
measure and support health. A total of 180 Fortum employees 
from the Suomenoja and Järvenpää power plants and from financial 
administration participated in the project. Additionally, 130 individuals 
participated as a control group.
The functionality and impact of the Wellbeing Booster concept 
was assessed through a user survey. The results of the survey indicate 
that the participants experienced improved awareness of their 
own wellbeing and an increase in physical activity as a result of the 
coaching.
 
Early-support model
We promote wellbeing at the workplace also through what is called 
an early-support model. We increase open communication between 
employees and supervisors by discussing and mapping the reasons 
for absences. In 2015 we focused on the functionality of the early-
support model, and we developed the related manager reporting. Sickness absence rate of the permanent employees in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-LA6)
The new Manage Working Capacity MASTER training was started for 
managers. The goal of the training  is to strengthen managerial know-
how in working capacity management.
 
Occupational safety committee and workplace wellbeing
Workplace wellbeing and work safety are regularly addressed in 
local-level occupational safety committees, which operate in line with 
local legislative requirements and represent all personnel groups. The 
committees exist in all our significant operating countries.
All our employees are within the sphere of occupational health 
care. Our occupational health care is arranged in all countries 
of operation in accordance with local laws and regulations. We 
emphasise the significance of preventive activities in promoting 
wellbeing in the company. The occupational health care costs per 
person in Finland, calculated from the share paid by Fortum, were 
EUR 509 (2014: 542).
 Fortum conducts regular examinations of its personnel in 
accordance with local laws. Employees who in their work are exposed 
to e.g. noise, dust, radiation or who perform shift work are within the 
sphere of the examinations. Occupational health care participates 
also in various discussions and assessments in the work community. 
The occupational health care professionals support supervisors by 
providing information on preventive actions as well as alternatives 
when the ability to work decreases. Occupational health care also 
offers methods and tools for these situations.
 Sick-leave absences, occupational diseases and average 
age of retirement in 2015
At Fortum the rate of absence due to sickness was 2.4% (2014: 
2.4%), which is lower than the average in the energy sector. The 
rate of absence due to sickness was 2.2% (2014: 2.2%) for males 
and 3.0% (2014: 2.9%) for females. The sickness absence rate 
is calculated based on the reported theoretical working hours of 
the permanent employees. The rate of absence due to sickness 
was included as a new Group-level indicator for 2016 to measure 
employee wellbeing. The management of sick-leave absences and 
particularly the early-support for managers in the management of 
illness-related absences and other working capacity challenges are 
among our focus areas in 2016.
There were 8 (2014: 8) cases of suspected occupational 
diseases in Finland; 3 were related to noise and 5 were related to 
asbestos. Two of the suspected noise-related cases were determined 
to be non-occupational. One of the suspected asbestos-related cases 
was determined to be an occupational disease and compensated as 
such. Investigations are still under way for the other suspected cases. 
All the cases of suspected occupational diseases involved males.
 An indication of the good management level of working capacity 
and work well-being at Fortum is the average retirement age, which 
was  62 (2014: 62) years. Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
44
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Employee development
 Fortum encourages its employees to continuously develop their kno -
wledge, skills and competencies. To support this, we have focused on 
developing leadership and organisational culture through a coaching 
approach. The coaching approach increases participative manage -
ment, which encourages employee accountability in their work. One of 
the key elements in the coaching approach is the giving and receiving 
of feedback.
Leadership coaching and induction in 2015
There were three programmes under way in 2015 to develop the 
leadership and organisational culture of managers:
• Leadership Impact  coaching
• MASTER Growing Leader training
• Fortum Navigator development programme
A total of 116 managers took part in these programmes in 2015.
All our new employees go through an induction programme, part 
of which is Fortum Passport, the online on-boarding programme. In 
2015 there were 131 (2014: 136) employees who learned about 
Fortum’s operations through the Fortum Passport programme.
 
Training hours and costs in 2015
In 2015 the total number of training hours was 50,466. Courses and 
licenses are, for the time being, registered in Finland, Sweden, Poland 
and Norway. Training costs in 2015 totalled approximately EUR 3.5 
(2014: 3.0) million. The training costs for 2014 and 2015 do not 
include the sold Distribution business.
  
Performance and development discussions support the 
achievement of targets and professional growth
Employee development is supported through the annual performance 
and development discussions; all employees are within the scope 
of the annual discussions. The main target of the performance and 
development discussion is to ensure that the employee has clear 
targets that align with the business as well as the competencies 
supporting the achievement of the targets and professional growth.
 The achievement of the targets forms the basis for payment of 
incentives. All employees who have a minimum of three months of 
employment in Fortum are within the scope of Fortum’s incentive plan.
 
Performance and development discussions in 2015
For 2015 we report development discussion coverage as of February Training hours in 2015 (GRI G4-LA9)
Level of education of the permanent employees in 2013-2015
2015, as the previous year’s development cycle ends in February. The 
electronic tool used in the performance and development discussions 
was used by 67% of the personnel. Of them 93% had performance 
and development discussions. The performance and development 
discussions were completed nearly equally among female employees 
95% and male employees 92%. The aim is to get all operating countries 
and employee groups within the sphere of the electronic tool.
 
Fortum Sound personnel survey
The Fortum Sound personnel survey is conducted every other 
year. The response rate to the survey conducted in October 2014 
climbed to 84% (2012: 79%). The results indicate that 70% of the 
employees feel a commitment to the company (2012: 65%).
Based on the survey results, the personnel feel that the 
customer-oriented way of thinking of Fortum employees as well as 
sustainability as an integral part of Fortum’s operations are at a 
good level. Overall wellbeing and a healthy work-life balance are also 
considered to be at a good level. Working in compliance with the 
Fortum Code of Conduct and occupational safety guidelines is part of the Fortum employees’ daily work.
The most important development targets emerging from the 
survey were clarification of the strategy, transparency and more 
effective communication of changes. In response to this need, the 
Fortum Dialogue events between management and employees were 
started. They are held twice a year. 
Additionally, a project to develop change management capacity 
was launched. During phase one of the project, support materials 
for management were created, and HR and communications 
organisations were trained to support management in change 
situations.
In a survey conducted when Pekka Lundmark started as 
President and CEO of Fortum in September 2015, more than 3,200 
Fortum employees noted their observations and development 
suggestions on ways to boost operational efficiency and build future 
success. The responses revealed that the employees have strong 
confidence in Fortum’s operations, but they would like the company 
to have a clearer direction, flexibility and quickness in decision-
making. Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
45
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Operational and occupational safety
We strive to be a safe workplace for our employees and for the 
contractors and service providers who work for us. We believe that 
all work injuries are preventable when competence and the right 
attitude prevails, when potential risks are addressed and when 
measures are taken to safeguard against them. Good plant safety is 
an absolute prerequisite for safe and efficient operations in terms of 
the employees and the environment.
 
We have set Group-level targets for the following key indicators:
• Injury frequency (TRIF* and LWIF**) for own employees and 
(LWIF) for contractors
• Number of serious accidents
• Major environmental, health and safety (EHS) incidents
 
The safety targets apply to all Fortum employees and are part of the 
short-term incentive plan.
Safety of own employees at a good level in 2015
The safety of our own employees has stabilised at a good level and 
the lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) per million work hours was 
1.1 (2014: 1.0). We achieved our best-ever record in total recordable 
injury frequency (TRIF) for own employees: 1.6 (2014: 2.0).
We also succeeded in improving contractor safety compared to 
the previous year. The injury frequency (LWIF) for contractors was 2.7 
(2014: 3.2). In 2015 there were no accidents leading to a fatality in 
Fortum’s operations.
Unfortunately, there were still too many serious accidents to our 
own and our contractors’ employees, and we didn’t achieve our target 
of reducing the number of serious accidents by half, i.e. to fewer than 
eight accidents. A total of 16 (2014: 16) serious accidents occurred. 
Falls and injuries in connection with using tools and operating 
machinery were the main causes of the serious accidents. We have 
investigated all the injuries and launched measures to prevent similar 
injuries.
 Key safety figures in 2013-2015 (GRI G4-LA6)
Occupational accidents, accident frequencies and absence days due to occupational accidents 
in 2015 by region and gender (GRI G4-LA6)
In reporting incidents we comply with the principles of the United States Occupational Safety & Health Administration 
(OSHA) and ILO’s Practices on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases to the extent that they 
conform to the legislation in Fortum’s countries of operation.*TRIF: Total Recordable Injury Frequency, injuries per million working hours  
**LWIF: Lost Workday Injury Frequency, injuries per million working hours, 
absence of one or more working days or shift excluding the day the accident 
happened Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
46
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Plant safety in 2015
We track major environmental, health and safety (EHS) incidents as a 
Group target, which covers fires, leaks >100 litres, explosions, nuclear 
and dam safety incidents, and environmental non-compliances. There 
were 18 (2014: 27) EHS incidents in 2015; the target was ≤27. The 
incidents didn’t cause significant harm to operations, people or the 
environment. The majority (12) of the incidents were wastewater 
permit violations in Russia. In 2016 the possibility to transition to 
using a closed water circulation system will be explored at two power 
plants in Russia.
 
Common guidelines steer operations
Fortum has Group-level EHS guidelines and minimum requirements 
that set requirements for all the operations for which we have 
operative responsibility. In 2015 we updated these guidelines and 
trained more than 500 employees in the revised requirements. 
The training emphasised management’s role, and we trained the 
management teams of business units, project management, power 
plant management, operators and service personnel. Procurement 
plays a central role in selecting contractors, so also the procurement 
management team received training.
As a part of the implementation of the new guidelines, we 
assessed the divisions’ performance in complying with the guidelines 
in their operations. The shortcomings were recorded and the 
corrective measures were included into divisions’ 2016 action plans. 
Measures to prevent serious accidents were also recorded in the 
action plans.
 The contractors’ ability to operate safely is important for us, and 
we assess contractors also from the perspective of safety. Fortum uses the common contractor safety management model, which takes 
into consideration the contractor’s safety level from moment of the 
agreement to the completion of the job. The goal is to implement the 
safety management model in all divisions during 2016.
 
Improving safety is a continuous effort
Our goal is to continuously improve the safety of our operations. We 
have set ambitious safety targets for 2016. The number of serious 
accidents must be reduced by half, the safety of our own personnel 
must be kept at a good level, and our target level in contractor safety 
must be tightened. We have also set more challenging targets for EHS 
incidents.
Contingency planning
 The main disaster and emergency situations we prepare for are 
related to our critical operations, such as power plant and dam safety 
and securing other operations.
For dam and nuclear safety, emergency preparedness obligations 
in Finland and Sweden are based on regulatory provisions; 
likewise, there are terrorism-related preparedness obligations 
in Russia. Otherwise, emergency preparedness obligations 
prescribed by authorities are of a general nature. Based on its own 
risk assessments, Fortum independently defines the crisis and 
exceptional situations it prepares for and drafts action plans for.
Responsibilities in contingency planning
Fortum’s crisis and emergency management and business continuity 
plans are prepared for the Group, division and site levels. The testing and updating of the crisis management and continuity plans are the 
responsibility of each division and line organisation. Crises impacting 
Group operations more broadly are managed at the Group level. 
Crisis communication instructions have been prepared for e.g. power 
and heat outages and for the Loviisa nuclear power plant. Corporate 
Security is responsible for crisis management development, e.g., 
for organising rehearsals and supporting planning. Corporate 
Communications is responsible for crisis communication.
 
Crisis rehearsals and other actions in 2015
In 2015 a crisis rehearsal was held for Fortum’s Heat, Electricity 
Sales and Solutions Division Management Team, among others. In 
Finland, the annual emergency exercise related to a nuclear power 
accident was held at the Loviisa power plant. The exercise focused 
on communication methods between the Loviisa power plant, 
the Keilaniemi Headquarters emergency organisations and key 
authorities: emergency response centre, national rescue services, 
police, and the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority.
Fire safety and rescue plans were created for the Headquarters 
in Russia, Finland, Sweden, Poland and the Baltics. Based on 
these plans, awareness events were held in the relevant locations. 
Information security risks were addressed during the year by 
creating an information security risk process to evaluate and analyse 
information-related risks. A goal for 2016 in preparing for crises and 
exceptional situations is to improve the risk management related 
especially to information security in power plants, as well as fire and 
rescue operations.
 Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
47
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Corporate citizenship
 Social responsibility is a cornerstone of Fortum’s operations. Our 
operations impact the local communities where our power plants 
are located, and we engage in many kinds of collaboration with local 
stakeholders.
We support activities promoting the common good in society, 
for example the work of organisations and communities in our 
operating countries. Our sponsorship programme focuses on the 
future – on children, young people, the environment and society. 
Fortum also does significant collaboration with different research and 
development projects, particularly with Nordic universities.
We actively participate in  national and international 
organisations . Public affairs and collaboration with authorities are a 
priority in the energy sector.Local impacts and collaboration with local communities
We are an important employer and significant tax payer in our 
operating areas. In addition, our investments improve the local 
infrastructure. Of our energy production forms, hydropower has the 
most significant impacts on local communities and local forms of 
land use.  Hydropower construction and use may alter the flow rate 
and the fluctuation and rhythm in the water level in waterways as well 
as the fish fauna. These changes impact fishing, recreational use, 
and boating. We mitigate and compensate the adversities caused 
by hydropower production through numerous measures, such as 
stocking fish and building boat launch ramps.
We communicate openly, honestly and proactively, and we 
engage in a dialogue with the influential stakeholder groups located 
in the vicinity of our power plants. We carry out collaboration 
projects with local communities. We conduct environmental impact 
assessments (EIA) for our projects in accordance with legislative 
requirements. The hearing of stakeholders is part of the EIA process. 
In addition, relevant stakeholders are heard in all permit procedures.
 
Examples of our activities with local communities in 2015:
• Customer panels and meetings were organised in Finland, 
Sweden, Estonia and Poland. Meeting with customers is one 
way to get direct feedback and development ideas. We want to 
accommodate customers’ needs even better in the future.
• Open-house events were arranged at power plants in different 
countries of operation; thousands of locals attended the events.Read more
Environmental impacts of hydropower• Fortum continued publishing the Naapurina ydinvoimala (Nuclear 
power plant as a neighbour) magazine in Loviisa and maintained 
an active dialogue with local residents and representatives of the 
city of Loviisa.
• Projects  aiming to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts 
of hydropower were under way in Finland and Sweden in 
collaboration with municipalities, research facilities, fishermen, 
universities and environmental organisations.
• The third National Clean River Championships was held for 
students in Sweden. More than 2,000 young people raised 
money for recreational activities by collecting 35 tonnes of trash 
along the banks of four rivers (Dalälven, Klarälven, Ljusnan and 
Gullspångälven) where Fortum has hydropower plants.
• In Estonia, collaboration related to district cooling solutions and 
smart and energy-efficient rebuilding was initiated with multiple 
local stakeholder groups.
• Fortum continued supporting local communities with  several 
projects  in the vicinity of the Kapeli and Amrit solar power plants 
in India.
• Fortum supports the communities in power plant areas through 
various donations. Support in 2015 went to e.g. homeless 
children and youth in Sweden, workshops and scholarships for 
talented children raised in difficult conditions in Poland, as well 
as a sports school for children, a hockey team, and cultural and 
residential events in Russia.
 Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
48
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Read more
SponsoringThe goal of the collaboration with universities and colleges is 
to develop Fortum’s business, promote energy-sector research 
and development, and foster Fortum’s recruiting and training 
opportunities.
 
Examples of our collaboration with universities and colleges 
in different operating countries:
• In Finland, we are funding a solar economy professorship (75% 
funding for a five-year period, i.e. until 2017) at Lappeenranta 
University of Technology.
• In Sweden, we are researching ways to improve the river habitat 
for migrating fish with the University of Karlstad. Additionally, 
there is a multi-year project under way that aims to offer 
sustainability-related training to more than 4,000 educators. 
Fortum’s collaboration partners in the project are Pedagog 
Värmland and Karlstad municipality, and new partners include 
engineering and consulting company ÅF and Chalmers University 
of Technology.
• In Poland, Fortum is collaborating with the Wroclaw University 
of Technology on district cooling solutions and with the 
Czestochowa University of Technology’s Faculty of Environmental 
Engineering and Biotechnology. Fortum also has a collaboration 
agreement with the Silesia University of Technology.
• In Russia, we are participating in the AboutEnergy training 
programme, which supports educators in providing training 
related to energy conservation. For university students, we also 
offer internships and information visits at our power plants.
• In the Baltic countries, Fortum is a member of the Baltic 
Innovative Research and Technology Infrastructure (BIRTI), 
which coordinates collaboration between universities, scientific 
institutes and entrepreneurs.
• In Latvia, we are cooperating with Riga Technical University and 
Latvia University of Agriculture, and in Lithuania, with Klaipeda 
Technical School, Klaipeda University and Kaunas University of 
Technology. We arrange internships and information visits for 
students, and we support energy sector-related conferences and 
seminars.Sponsorship projects in 2015 
We sponsored junior football and junior volleyball in Finland in 2015 
through the Fortum Tutor programme. The goal is to ensure that 
children have inspiring and motivating coaches. About 120 tutors 
mentor the coaches and provide them with useful tools for coaching. 
In its seven years of operation, the Fortum Tutor programme has 
reached more than 100,000 children. In May 2015 the first training 
was arranged for football team coaches of special populations.
In 2015 the Fortum Tutor programme was also launched in 
Latvia, where Fortum sponsors a local volleyball team in Jelgava. 
Within the programme, professional volleyball players and Fortum 
employees visit local schools and teach students volleyball skills. 
Short-term Fortum Tutor projects have been implemented in football 
and ice hockey also in Chelyabinsk, Russia.
The Fortum Honorary Energy Donor mobile app has been in use 
in Poland, the Baltic countries and Russia. It encourages people to 
engage in physical activity. The distance covered during a physical 
activity can be converted into energy, for which Fortum makes a 
financial donation to selected charities.Fortum’s support to society in 2015 by target, %
 Fortum’s support to society in 2015 by country, %
Support for society in 2015
In 2015 our support for activities promoting the common good 
totalled about EUR 3.6 (2014: 3.3) million. The figures for 2014 and 
2015 do not include the sold Distribution business. The share of 
grants awarded by the Fortum Foundation was about EUR 706,000 
(2014: 550,000) of the support. Fortum Foundation supports 
research, education and development in the natural, technical and 
economical sciences within the energy industry. Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
49
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Read more
Sustainable supply chain
StakeholdersHuman rights
Fortum supports and respects internationally recognised human 
rights, which are included in the key human rights agreements. Our 
own operations have a direct or indirect impact on the realisation of 
the human rights of our own personnel, those working in the supply 
chain, and members of local communities.Management of human rights issues
Our goal is to operate in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, and to apply these principles in our 
own operations as well as in country and partner risk assessments 
and supplier audits. Fortum’s approach to the management of 
human rights issues is described in more detail in the Social 
responsibility:  Human rights.  
Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability unit is responsible for 
coordinating and developing sustainability, including human rights 
issues, at the Group level.
Personnel training in human rights issues in 2015
Fortum employees conducting supplier audits receive 1.5 days of 
internal training, during which they review the requirements of the 
Supplier Code of Conduct, the sub-areas to be audited, and the tools 
to be used to verify compliance with the requirements. In 2015 we 
trained a total of three auditors from Finland and India. Those who 
have completed the internal training are advised to complete auditor 
training also on the Social Accountability (SA8000) standard.
The online course for Fortum’s Code of Conduct also includes 
training in human rights-related issues. The Code of Conduct was 
updated in 2015 and employees completed an online course with 
exercises related to everyday Code of Conduct situations. The online 
course is also part of the induction programme for new employees.
In 2015 we participated in the Finnish Corporate Responsibility 
Network’s (FIBS) training related to business and human rights.
 
Assessment of human rights impacts in 2015
A sustainability assessment is carried out for all of our investment 
projects and takes into consideration the environmental, occupational 
health and safety, and social impacts of the project. The sustainability 
assessment includes a human rights evaluation, especially in new 
operating areas. A human rights assessment is also part of the 
systematic assessment of country and counterparty risks when 
planning a project.
The process has two parts: a light and a deep assessment. A light 
assessment is done for all new countries in where our business unit is 
planning the sales of operation or maintenance services, for example, 
and it is based on publically available sources. In 2015, seven of 
these assessments were made. A deep assessment was done for one 
country.Fortum’s supplier audits cover the most important human rights 
aspects related to purchases. Our personnel conduct the supplier 
audits. By conducting the audits on our own, we gain a better idea of 
the supplier’s practices and, at the same time, increase the supplier’s 
competence related to human rights.
In 2016 we will assess the possibility to increase the number of 
supplier audits by collaborating with an external service provider in 
conducting audits.
The supplier audits conducted in 2015 and their results are 
described in more detail in the section  Sustainable supply chain .
 
Identified impacts on human rights, corrective measures 
and grievances in 2015
All forms of child and forced labour are strictly prohibited and in 
violation of Fortum’s Code of Conduct. Of our operating countries, 
India has not ratified the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) 
Convention on the minimum age and the worst forms of child labour. 
Our functions in India require job applicants to be of adult age. We 
have not identified risks related to the use of forced labour in our own 
operations. Support of employees’ right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining are discussed in the section  Employee-
employer relations .
During the year there was one grievance filed regarding 
discrimination, which is reported in the section  Diversity and equal 
opportunity . There were no other grievances related to human 
rights or labour rights filed through formal grievance channels, nor 
were there any grievances carried over from the previous year. Social key figures  Security of supply  Employees  Operational and occupational safety  Corporate citizenship  Human rights  Product responsibility
50
 Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
Read more
Customer satisfaction and reputation
Products and servicesProduct responsibility
Fortum’s business activities cover the production, sales and 
distribution of electricity and heat as well as energy-sector expert 
services. In line with our strategy, we develop sustainable energy 
solutions that benefit all of society.
We are one of the leading electricity sales companies 
in the Nordic countries, and we sell electricity to private and 
business customers in Sweden, Finland and Norway. Fortum 
is one of the world’s biggest producers and sellers of heat. We 
sell heat to companies, the public sector and private customers 
in Finland, Poland, all the Baltic countries, and especially in 
Russia. Additionally, we sell district cooling in Finland and in 
Estonia, where the first customers will start using district cooling in 
2016.Guarantee-of-origin-labelled and renewable electricity
Fortum is one of the Nordic countries’ leading sellers of carbon 
dioxide-free and guarantee-of-origin-labelled electricity and can offer 
more and more customers an electricity agreement that comes 
with electricity produced with renewable energy. In 2015 all the 
electricity we sold to private customers in Finland was renewable 
and carbon dioxide-free hydropower or wind power. The origin of 
the hydroelectricity and wind power was guaranteed with European 
Guarantees of Origin. Some of the production was guaranteed also 
with the pan-European EKOenergy label granted by environmental 
organisations and in Sweden with the Bra Miljöval label.
 
Services to customers 
In recent years Fortum has introduced many new solutions that 
improve energy efficiency for customers and reduce environmental 
impacts. We want to offer growing urban areas sustainable 
solutions that support building a circular economy. Smart solutions 
give customers better opportunities to control their electricity 
consumption and costs. Fortum is continuously developing its 
products and services to meet the needs of customers. The new 
solutions are related to, e.g., energy efficiency, electric vehicles, solar 
power, and open district heating.
We offer a variety of operation and maintenance expert services 
to power plant owners and industrial customers. Additionally, we offer products and consulting services related to hydropower, nuclear 
safety and nuclear waste handling.
 
Marketing communications
Our goal is to present products and services truthfully in all our 
marketing and communication materials. We do not present 
misleading statements and we strictly follow responsible marketing 
communication guidelines. In statements regarding environmental 
issues, we follow the regulations for environmental marketing.
No violations of regulatory or voluntary principles were observed 
in Fortum’s marketing communications in 2015.
51
 Reporting principles  Reported GRI indicators Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
We observe the following principles in the sustainability reporting for 
2015.
Reporting scope and boundaries
Reporting related to operations and management covers 
all functions under Fortum’s control, including  subsidiaries 
in all countries of  operation. Subsidiaries are defined as 
 companies in which Fortum Corporation has control.  Possible 
deviations to this principle are reported in conjunction with 
information applying different  boundaries. A list of  Fortum’s 
subsidiaries is in Notes to the  Consolidated Financial 
 Statements , Note 43  Subsidiaries by  segment.
Information from previous years is mainly presented as pro 
forma information, i.e. presented on the basis of the organisation 
and the functions of each year; the impacts of ownership changes in 
production facilities, for example, have not been updated afterwards 
in the previous indicators.
An exception is the company AB Fortum Värme samägt med 
Stockholms stad (Fortum Värme), previously consolidated as a 
subsidiary company and now classified in the Financial Statements 
as a joint venture and consolidated with the equity method as of 
1.1.2014. Whenever possible, the data presented in this report has 
been changed to reconcile with the above mentioned accounting 
practice starting in 2013. Exceptions to the reconciliated 2013 
figures are noted separately for each indicator. Thus Fortum Värme 
is not included in Fortum’s sustainability targets and indicators nor 
in the descriptions of management practices, unless mentioned 
otherwise. Fortum Värme’s sustainability information is available in 
Fortum Värme’s sustainability report.   
Fortum completed the divestment of its Distribution business on 
1 June 2015. As a general rule, the information for 2015 presented 
in this report does not include the Distribution business. The 
Distribution business is included in the figures for 2013 and 2014. 
Exceptions to the accounting practice are presented in conjunction 
with each figure.  
 Capacity changes 
In December 2015 Fortum commissioned unit 1 of its Chelyabinsk 
GRES combined heat and power (CHP) plant in Russia. In January 
2015 Fortum’s new Suomenoja heat pump station started operating 
in Espoo, Finland. The new capacity built and the new plants 
commissioned in 2015 are included in the reporting starting from the 
time of their commissioning.
Fortum divested its Distribution business in Sweden on 1 June 
2015. The reporting rules for the Distribution business are presented 
in the Reporting scope and boundaries section.
 
Measurement and calculation principles
Data for economic performance indicators is collected from the 
audited financial statements and from financial accounting and 
consolidation systems.
The environmental information of the report covers the plants 
for which Fortum is the legal holder of the environmental permit. In 
such cases, the plant information is reported in its entirety. The only 
exception is the calculation of specific CO2 emissions from the Meri-
Pori power plant, where the calculation covers only Fortum’s share 
of production and emissions as specified in the operation agreement 
between Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima Oy. In the specific emissions 
calculation, the production shares of minority holdings are also 
included in the total production.
Fortum utilises a Group-wide database with instructions for 
collecting site-level environmental data. Sites are responsible for data 
input, emissions calculations and the accuracy of the information 
provided. The Corporate Sustainability unit compiles the data at 
the Group level and is responsible for the disclosed sustainability 
information.
Fortum’s CO2 emissions subject to the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme are annually verified at the site-level by external verifiers. 
Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions have been reported 
in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and based on the 
Greenhouse Gas Analysis performed by an external consultant. Fortum’s human resources (HR) management system is 
currently used in all Fortum’s operating countries and is the main 
system for employee-related personal and job data. In Russia, 
the employee data system covers mainly superiors. In addition, 
Russian operations have their own, local data system. Other social 
responsibility data, such as occupational health-related data, 
originates from various data systems.
 Designated individuals collect the information and deliver 
it to the Corporate Sustainability unit primarily in the format 
recommended by GRI.Reporting principles52
 Reporting principles  Reported GRI indicators Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
 In our sustainability reporting 2015 we apply the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) G4 Guidelines’ specific standard disclosure indicators presented in 
the table.  Reported GRI indicators
 
CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
DISCLOSURES OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH  
G4-DMA   Management approach Sustainability  management / Governance and management
 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY
 G4-DMA   Management approach to economic responsibility Sustainability  management / Governance and management / Economic
 Economic performance   
 G4-EC1  Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic responsibility / Economic impacts
 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate changeEnvironmental responsibility / Climate change mitigation 
Financials / Operating and financial review / Risk management
  G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s benefit plan obligations Financials / Notes to the consolidated financial statements / 32. pension obligations
G4-EC4  Financial assistance received from government Economic responsibility / Economic impacts
Plant decommissioning      
G4-DMA   Management approach   Financials /  Notes to the consolidated financial statements / 30. Nuclear related assets and liabilities
 System efficiency     
 EU11  Average generation efficiency of thermal plant Environmental responsibility / Improving energy efficiency / Energy intensity 2015
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
 G4-DMA   Management approach to environmental responsibility Sustainability  management / Governance and management / Environment
 Materials     
 G4-EN1  Use of materials Environmental responsibility / Improving energy efficiency / Fuel consumption 2015
 G4-EN2 Recycled materials used Environmental responsibility / Improving energy efficiency / Fuel consumption 2015
 Energy     
 G4-EN3  Energy consumption within the organisation Environmental responsibility / Improving energy efficiency / Fuel consumption 2015 (consumption)   
Environmental responsibility / Sustainable production (production)  
Environmental responsibility / Improving energy efficiency / Energy intensity 2015
 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental responsibility / Improving Energy efficiency / Energy intensity 2015
G4-EN6  Reduction of energy consumption Environmental responsibility / Improving energy efficiency
Water
 G4-EN8   Total water withdrawal by sourcen Environmental responsibility / Water use53
 Reporting principles  Reported GRI indicators Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
Biodiversity      
 G4-EN13  Habitats protected or restored Environmental responsibility / Biodiversity
Emissions
G4-EN15     Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environmental responsibility / Climate change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions 2015
 G4-EN16  Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environmental responsibility / Climate change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions 2015
G4-EN17   Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Environmental responsibility / Climate change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions 2015
 G4-EN18  Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environmental responsibility / Climate change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions 2015
G4-EN21   NOx and SO2 and other significant air emissions Environmental responsibility / Emissions into air
 Effluents and waste    
 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental responsibility / Water use
 G4-EN23  Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental responsibility / Waste and by-products
 G4-EN24  Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental responsibility / Environmental incidents
Compliance      
 G4-EN29 Significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions for 
noncompliance with environmental laws and regulationsEnvironmental responsibility / Environmental non-compliances and incidents
Supplier environmental assessment     
 G4-EN33  Significant actual and potential negative environmental 
impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Economic responsibility / Supply chain management /  Sustainable supply chain
Environmental grievance mechanisms    
G4-EN34   Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, 
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanismsEnvironmental responsibility / Environmental non-compliances and incidents  
Sustainability management / Business ethics and compliance54
 Reporting principles  Reported GRI indicators Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
 G4-DMA  Management approach to social responsibility, labour 
practices and decent workSustainability  management / Governance and management / Labour practices
 G4-10   Workforce Social responsibility / Employees
 G4-11  Coverage of collective bargaining agreements Social responsibility  / Employees / Employee-employer relations
 Employment       
G4-LA1   New employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility / Employees
 Occupational health and safety       
 G4-LA6  Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 
days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related 
fatalitiesSocial responsibility / Operational and occupational safety  
Social responsibility / Employees / Employee wellbeing
 Training and education     
G4-LA9    Average hours of training per employee Social responsibility / Employees / Employee development
 G4-LA10  Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Social responsibility / Employees / Employee development
G4-LA11    Percentage of employees receiving regular   performance and 
career reviewsSocial responsibility / Employees / Employee development
 Diversity and equal opportunity     
 G4-LA12  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 
employeesSocial responsibility / Employees / Diversity and equal opportunity  
Corporate governance statement / Governing bodies of Fortum / Board of directors
 Equal remuneration for women and men     
 G4-LA13   Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social responsibility / Employees / Diversity and equal opportunity
Supplier assessment for labour practices    
 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour 
practices in the supply chain and actions takenEconomic responsibility /  Supply chain management / Sustainable supply chain
Labour practices grievance mechanisms       
G4-LA16   Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, 
and resolved through formal grievance mechanismsSocial responsibility / Human rights  
Sustainability management / Business ethics and compliance55
 Reporting principles  Reported GRI indicators Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: HUMAN RIGHTS
 G4-DMA Management approach to social responsibility, human rights Sustainability  management / Governance and management / Human rights
Investment     
 G4-HR1  Human rights screening or clauses included in significant 
investment agreementsSocial responsibility / Human rights
 G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Social responsibility / Human rights
Non-discrimination    
 G4-HR3   Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Social responsibility / Employees / Diversity and equal opportunity
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
 G4-HR4  Supporting the right to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining in risk areasSocial responsibility / Employees / Employee-employer relations
Child labour
 G4-HR5  Measures taken to eliminate child labour in risk areas and in 
operations of significant suppliersSocial responsibility / Human rights
  Forced or compulsory labour       
G4-HR6   Measures taken to eliminate forced and compulsory labour in 
risk areas and in operations of significant suppliersSocial responsibility / Human rights
Assessment      
G4-HR9   Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessmentsSocial responsibility / Human rights
Supplier human rights assessment      
 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts 
in the supply chain and actions takentEconomic responsibility / Supply chain management / Sustainable supply chain
Human rights grievance mechanisms
 G4-HR12  Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, 
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanismsSocial responsibility / Human rights  
Sustainability management / Business ethics and compliance56
 Reporting principles  Reported GRI indicators Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: SOCIETY 
 G4-DMA  Management approach to social responsibility, society Sustainability management / Governance and management / Society
 Local communities    
 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communitiesSocial responsibility / Corporate citizenship
Anti-corruption     
G4-SO3  Operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the 
significant risks identifiedSustainability management / Business ethics and compliance
 G4-SO4   Communication and training on anticorruption policies and 
proceduresSustainability management / Business ethics and compliance
G4-SO5    Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Sustainability management / Business ethics and compliance
Public policy      
 G4-SO6  Total value of political contributions Sustainability management / Business ethics and compliance
Anti-competitive behaviour       
 G4-SO7  Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, 
antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomesSustainability management / Business ethics and compliance
Compliance      
G4-SO8   Significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions for 
noncompliance with laws and regulationsSustainability management / Business ethics and compliance
Disaster/Emergency planning and response       
G4-DMA   Management approach Social responsibility / Operational and occupational safety / Contingency planning
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
G4-DMA   Management approach to social responsibility, product 
responsibilitySustainability management / Governance and management / Product responsibility
Product and service labellin g 
 G4-PR5  Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Economic responsibility / Customer satisfaction and reputation
Marketing communications     
G4-PR7   Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 
and voluntary codes concerning marketing communicationsSocial responsibility / Product responsibility
Access    
EU30   Average plant availability factor Social responsibility / Security of supply Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
57
Glossary
Acidification  
The decreased ability of a habitat, such as a lake or forest ground, to 
neutralize the acid fallout from the air; as a result, the pH level drops, 
i.e. water becomes more acidic. Flue-gas emissions, like sulphur 
dioxide and nitrogen oxides, contribute to acidification.
Best available technology (BAT)
The most advanced commercially available processes, equipment 
and techniques that can be practically adopted to limit emissions and 
waste. BAT is a central principle in plant permit processes.
 
Biodiversity 
The existence of a wide variety of plant and animal species in their 
natural environment (diversity in habitats and species and genetic 
diversity within species).
 
By-product
A product generated in conjunction with power and heat production 
or in the cleaning of flue gases that can be utilised. Examples include 
ash and gypsum.
Carbon dioxide
A gas generated from the combustion of fossil fuels containing 
 carbon, see Greenhouse effect.
 
Carbon dioxide-free production 
In Fortum’s reporting the term carbon dioxide-free production refers 
to hydro, nuclear, wind, solar and wave power, which do not generate 
emissions in the production phase, and the use of biomass energy 
and the thermal energy generated by heat pumps from ground, water 
system or waste heat.
Certification
Verification of compliance of operations with an environmental, 
safety or quality management system standard (e.g. ISO 14001). 
 Verification is made by an accredited organisation.Climate change
A long-term change in the global or local climate, e.g. in precipitation, 
temperatures and wind patterns. Climate change can be caused by 
events related to e.g. oceanic thermal mechanisms, solar activity, 
volcanic activity, and human activity. Commonly, the term climate 
change refers to the global warming caused by the increased 
 greenhouse gases resulting from human activity.
 
Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct defines the foundation of 
Fortum’s way of operating everywhere. The Board has approved the 
Code of Conduct and it is based on Fortum’s shared values.
Combined heat and power production 
The simultaneous generation of heat and electricity at a power plant 
in which the thermal energy of the turbine steam used for power 
production is utilized by industry or as district heat. Combined heat 
and power production achieves a high co-efficiency rate (as much as 
90%), i.e. the fuels needed in production are used more efficiently.
 
Condensing power 
Electricity production in a power plant where thermal energy is not 
utilized, but is cooled using cooling water.
 
Cooling water
Water used to condense the steam that is used in electricity 
 production at a power plant. Cooling water is taken from a water 
system (sea, lake) and is returned to it about 10 oC warmer.
 
Eco-labelled energy
Electricity produced in accordance with certain criteria in an 
 environmentally sound manner and with renewable energy sources. 
For instance, ”Ekoenergia” in Finland and ”Bra miljöval” in Sweden.
Electricity retail market 
In the electricity retail market consumers can choose their electricity 
seller within their own country. Electricity retailers make electricity 
agreements with consumers. The selling price of electricity is based 
on the wholesale price and the seller’s margin. Consumer prices follow with a delay the fluctuation of the wholesale price determined 
in the exchange.
Electricity wholesale market  
In the wholesale market electricity producers, retailers and big 
 electricity users buy and sell electricity in the exchange. The Nordic 
power exchange Nord Pool is an important part of the electricity 
 wholesale market. Nord Pool’s common market area includes 
 Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. Both spot trading and 
 derivatives trading is conducted in the wholesale market.
Emissions trading 
A scheme in which emissions have economic value and in which 
emissions allowances or credits are bought and sold. At the moment 
the most significant emissions trading scheme is the EU’s carbon 
dioxide emissions trading scheme.
Fly ash 
A by-product generated in connection with solid-fuel combustion.   
Fly ash can be utilised as made-up ground and in mine filling.
Greenhouse effect
The phenomenon whereby the earth’s atmosphere traps heat as a 
result of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which allow 
incoming solar radiation to reach the earth’s surface but slow its 
radiation in the infrared area. The strengthening of the greenhouse 
effect means that as greenhouse gases increase, their warming effect 
on the atmosphere strengthens.
Greenhouse gas 
A gas that absorbs heat radiation and traps it in the atmosphere, thus 
strengthening the greenhouse effect. The main greenhouse gases are 
carbon dioxide and methane.
Guarantee of origin
In line with the EU directive, an electricity guarantee of origin contains 
information about the electricity production method and its energy 
sources and discloses the date and location of production.Glossary, acronyms and units Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
58
 
High-level radioactive waste 
Spent fuel removed from a nuclear power plant is high-level 
 radioactive waste.
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 
The number of injuries per million working hours, absence of one or 
more working day or shift excluding the day the accident happened.
Low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste 
In addition to high-level radioactive waste, nuclear power plant 
 operations also generate low- or intermediate-level radioactive 
waste. Similar waste is also generated when a nuclear power plant is 
dismantled.
Methane 
A hydrocarbon compound. Natural gas consists of more than   
99 per cent methane. Methane is a greenhouse gas.
 
Nitrogen oxides
NO and NO2 are produced during the combustion of fuel from both 
the nitrogen contained in fuel and in the combustion air.
Primary energy 
Unrefined, natural energy. The energy content of fuel is commonly 
referred to as primary energy.
Renewable energy certificate 
The purpose of the renewable energy certificate (green certificate) 
system is to increase the use of renewable energy sources where it 
is most cost-effective. Certificates can be bought and sold and are 
proof that a certain amount of electricity has been produced with 
renewable energy sources.
 
Renewable energy sources
Renewable energy sources include solar, wind, hydro and bioenergy, 
geothermal, and wave and tidal energy. Renewable energy sources do 
not cause greenhouse gas emissions.Smart grid 
A grid in which electricity is transferred in the future both from 
the production plant to the consumer and from the consumer’s 
production equipment to the grid. A smart grid is a marketplace for 
distributed energy production and for consumers. Everything occurs 
in real time, the grid adapts, scales, anticipates and corrects itself 
using automation. Smart solutions also connect information and 
communications technology to the electricity infrastructure. 
Specific emissions 
The amount of emissions of a plant in proportion to the amount of 
energy produced. The specific emissions figure (for example g/kWh) 
indicates how effectively the emissions have been reduced.
Sulphur dioxide
A chemical compound generated in the combustion of fuels 
 containing sulphur.
Sustainable development
Development that fulfils the needs of present generations without 
compromising the ability of future generations to fulfil their own 
needs. Sustainable development is considered to encompass 
 economic, environmental and social dimensions.
 
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 
The number of injuries per million working hours. In addition to LWI 
accidents, this figure includes medical treatment cases and restricted 
workday cases.  Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
59
Acronyms
CCS  Carbon capture and storage 
CDM  Clean Development Mechanism 
CHP  Combined heat and power production 
CH4  Methane 
CO2  Carbon dioxide 
IEA  International Energy Agency 
LWIF  Lost workday injury frequency 
NO2  Nitrogen dioxide 
N2O  Nitrous oxide 
SO2  Sulphur dioxide 
TRIF Total recordable injury frequency
 Units
Energy
1 terawatt hour (TWh) 
= 1,000 gigawatt hours (GWh) 
= 1,000,000 megawatt hours (MWh) 
= 1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 terawatt hour (TWh) 
= 3,600 terajoules (TJ)
1 terajoule (TJ) 
= 278 megawatt hours (MWh)
1 petajoule (PJ) 
= 1000 terajoules (TJ)
 
Capacity
1 megawatt (MW) 
= 1,000 kilowatts (kW) 
= 1,000,000 watts (W)
 
Volume
1 cubic metre (m3) 
= 1,000 litres (l)
1 normal cubic metre (Nm3) 
= 1 m3 of gas in normal atmospheric pressure (1.0 bar) and 
temperature 0 oC
 
Mass
1 tonne (t) 
= 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 megatonne (Mt) 
= 1,000,000 tonnes (t) 
= 1,000,000,000 kilograms (kg)
 Activity
1 becquerel (Bq) 
= 1 nuclear transformation per second
1 terabecquerel (TBq) 
= 1 000 gigabecquerels (GBq) 
= 1 000 000 000 000 becquerels Sustainability reporting Sustainability indexes Sustainability management   Economic responsibility Environmental  responsibility Social responsibility Glossary and units Contact us  
60
Your feedback is very important to us, because it helps us to further 
develop our actions related to sustainability, including reporting and 
communication.
Fortum Power and Heat Oy
Corporate Sustainability
POB 1
Keilaniemi
00048 FORTUM 
Finland
 
e-mail: firstname.lastname@fortum.com Contact us
Ulla Rehell   
Vice President, Sustainability   
tel. +358 10 45 29251
 Hannu Härkönen    
Project Manager, Safety and EHS management   
tel. +358 10 45 24162
 Marjut Lovio    
Sustainability Manager, Social and Economic Responsibility   
tel. +358 10 45 23154
 Igor Tjurlik   
Corporate EHS Manager   
tel. +37 2512 1204
 Minna Torsner   
Project Manager, Sustainability   
tel. +358 10 45 34776
 Anja Roinila   
Assistentti   
tel. +358 10 45 29222
 
 