 Sustainability 2016
2
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
On the move  
for a cleaner world
Watch a video about our strategy implementation from this link. Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
3Sustainability 2016
Sustainability management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals   . . . . . . . . . . 5
Key sustainability topics   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Governance and management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Policies and commitments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Business ethics and compliance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Stakeholders   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Sustainability indexes   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Economic responsibility  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18
Economic impacts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Customer satisfaction and reputation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Supply chain management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23Environmental responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Sustainable energy production   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Climate change mitigation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Improving energy efficiency   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Circular economy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Biodiversity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Emissions into air   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Water use   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Waste and by-products   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Environmental non-compliances and incidents  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43Social responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Security of supply   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Employees   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Safety and security   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Corporate citizenship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Human rights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Product responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Reporting principles and assurance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Reporting principles   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Reported GRI indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Assurance report   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Appendices
1. Sustainability management by topic
2. Fortum's internal policies and instructions
Glossary and contact information
Fortum's 2016 reporting entity
Financials
 Financials 2016
 Governance
 Governance 2016
 Tax Footprint
 Tax Footprint 2016
 CEO Letter
 CEO Letter 2016
 Remuneration
 Remuneration 2016
 Online Annual Review
 Sustainability 2016
 SustainabilityEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
4The entire energy sector is undergoing a transformation. 
Four megatrends are shaping this change: Climate 
change and resource efficiency, Urbanisation, 
Digitalisation and new technologies, and Active 
customers. These megatrends have a major impact on 
how energy is produced, sold and used.
Our role is to accelerate this change by reshaping the 
energy system, improving resource efficiency and 
providing smart solutions. This way we deliver excellent 
shareholder value. Our values – accountability, creativity, 
respect and honesty – form the foundation for all our 
activities. 
Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum’s strategy. 
Business and responsibility are tightly linked, 
underlining the role of sustainable solutions as a 
competitive advantage. In our operations, we give 
balanced consideration to economic, social and 
environmental responsibility.
Fortum's vision, mission and strategy
Fortum's valuesSustainability management
Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
5Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  adopted by 
the United Nations in 2015 define international sustainable 
development focus areas and goals to 2030  . We want to do our part 
to promote the achievement of the goals in our value chain  . The 
Sustainable Development Goals offer business opportunities as 
well and the opportunity to create value for our stakeholder groups  . 
As a producer of energy and circular economy solutions, Fortum 
impacts most of the Sustainable Development Goals and their 
specific targets  . The SDGs which we impact most are presented 
in the picture  . In line with our strategy, we are driving the change 
towards a cleaner world  . Fortum takes care of the working conditions and safety of its own 
and its contractors’ employees, and it requires service and goods suppliers to respect labour rights. Fortum generates economic added value to its investors, suppliers and the public sector.
• Group targets in safety and sickness-related absences
We advance innovations related to energy, the circular economy, 
digitalisation and electricity storage solutions, and we invest in startups. We develop district heating and cooling solutions.Fortum oﬀers urban waste and circular economy solutions and 
impacts urban air quality by developing charging solutions for electric vehicles and by aiming to reduce power plant emissions into the air.
Fortum oﬀers and develops new energy services for customers, 
improves the energy eﬃciency of its production, and invests in renewable energy, e.g. solar power in India.• Group target in security of supply
Fortum invests in CO
2-free energy production, improves 
the energy eﬃciency of its production, and develops new 
climate-benign energy innovations.
• Group target in speciﬁc CO2 emissions and in energy eﬃciency
All energy production has environmental impacts. 
Fortum aims to reduce the environmental impacts of its energy production on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity.
• Group target in major EHS incidentsDrive 
productivity and industry transformation
Create solutions for sustainable cities
Grow in solar 
and wind
Build new 
energy venturesFortum’s strategy SDG
Fortum supports the Sustainable Development Goals.Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
6Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Measure
7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable  
and modern energy for all
13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts• We invested in renewable energy production : wind, solar and hydropower
• We started construction of two solar power plants with a total capacity of 170 MW in India
• We invested in wind power in Sweden, Norway and Russia
• We invested in energy efficiency, e.g. at a CHP plant in Russia, at the Loviisa nuclear power plant in Finland and 
at hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland
• We reduced specific CO 2 emissions in Espoo, Finland, with flexible heat production: we utilise wood-based fuels, 
waste heat, and, in the future, also geothermal heat
• We increased the use of horse bedding-manure mixture as a fuel
• Our energy efficiency investments  totalled 245 GWh
• We organised an innovation competition to develop solar energy solutions from the customer perspective
8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth,  
employment, and decent work for all• We audited 13 suppliers  on work conditions and other issues
• We renewed the process for the supplier pre-selection
• We determined the divisions’ level of compliance with safety instructions and took corrective measures
• We updated the safety handbook and compiled online training on work safety
9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable  
industrialisation and foster innovation• We initiated development of a virtual power plant  for balancing electricity demand
• We launched a pilot project for the Nordic countries’ biggest electricity storage 
• We commissioned new district cooling in Tartu, Estonia
• We invested in Exeger, a company developing solar power technology
• We invested in the biorefining technology supplier Chempolis 
• We engaged in collaboration with universities in our operating countries, and Fortum Foundation awarded 
EUR 675 000 in grants 
• We used EUR 52 million in research and development 
11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive,  
safe, resilient and sustainable • We acquired Ekokem Corporation in Finland and started offering sustainable city solutions, like waste and circular 
economy services to customers
• We developed charging solutions for electric vehicles in the Nordic countries: We acquired Info24 in Sweden, 
a developer of EV charging systems, we developed charging systems in collaboration with some 50 partners 
already, we participated in construction of the world’s largest charging station  and an electricity-storing 
charging station in Norway
• We started collaboration in the Helsinki metropolitan area Smart & Clean fund
• We participate in the Smart Energy City research programme  in Stockholm
• We supplied emissions-reducing combustion solutions to Estonian, Swedish, Romanian and Polish customers
14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas  
and marine resources for sustainable development 
15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification,  
and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss• We implemented environmental measures valued at EUR 3.2 million for our hydropower
• We started construction of equipment to trap and transport fish over the dam at the Montta hydropower plant in 
Finland
• A record number of salmon migrated up to the River Klarälven in Sweden, thanks to the trap and transport of fish
• We installed scrubbers at the Argayash power plant in Russia to reduce flue-gas emissions
• We studied the sustainability criteria of wood-based biomass, and in 2017 we will examine the opportunity to 
apply for Chain of Custody certification for the Fortum’s wood-based biomass purchasesExamples of measures we implemented in 2016 that promote the achievement of the Sustainable Development GoalsEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
7Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Long-term value 
and growth
Sustainable 
supply chainEnergy and 
resource eﬃciency
Economic 
beneﬁts to our 
stakeholdersClimate benign 
energy production 
and systemsReduction of 
environmental impactsSecure supply of heat 
and electricity
Solutions for 
sustainable 
citiesOperational and 
occupational safety Business ethics 
and complianceCustomer
satisfaction
Personnel
well-beingEconomic responsibility Environmental responsibilitySocial responsibilityKey sustainability topics
We have defined our most important sustainability focus areas in 
the areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility  .
Our focus areas are based on Fortum’s and our stakeholders’ 
views of the significance of the impacts on the company and its 
ability to create value for its stakeholders and on the environment  . 
Our understanding of stakeholder views is based on the results of 
the extensive stakeholder survey, One Fortum survey, conducted 
annually as well as on information gained through other 
stakeholder collaboration .
In 2015, a total of 2,133 stakeholder representatives, more than 
60% of them representing personnel, participated in our latest separate sustainability survey  . In the 2015 sustainability survey for 
stakeholders, decision makers, organisations, employees and the 
general public put special emphasis on the significance of security 
of supply of heat and electricity, management of sustainability-
related risks, and sustainable ways of operating  . Our personnel 
emphasised the safety of operations  . The general public considered 
the use of renewable energy sources as important  . 
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum employee
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum employee and are part of 
Fortum’s short-term incentive scheme  . In addition to the Group-level targets, divisions have their own targets  . Fortum’s Board 
of Directors annually decides on the sustainability targets to be 
included in the incentive scheme  . In 2016 the incentive scheme 
included the injury frequency for Fortum employees and for 
contractors and the number of serious occupational accidents  . 
The injury frequency for Fortum employees and for contractors 
will be included in the 2017 incentive scheme  . The weight of the 
sustainability target in the incentive scheme is 10% (2016: 10%)  . Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
8Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Group sustainability targets and performance in 2016 
Target for the 
year 2016Status at the 
end of 2016Status at the 
end of 2015
Reputation index, based on One Fortum Survey 72.0 72.5 71.75
Customer satisfaction index (CSI), based on One Fortum Survey CSI divisional 
scores at level 
“good” (70–74) 67–79 68–79
Environmental responsibility    
Specific CO 2 emissions  
Total energy production, g/kWh, 5-year average < 200 188 191
Energy efficiency  
Energy efficiency improvement by year 2020, base line year 2012, GWh/ a > 1,400* 1,372 1,127**
Major EHS incidents 1)≤ 23 22 18
Social responsibility    
Security of supply  
CHP plant energy availability, % > 95 97.4 96.4
Occupational safety  
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 2), own personnel ≤ 2.5 1.9 1.6
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), own personnel ≤ 1.0 1.0 1.1
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), contractors ≤ 3.0 3.0 2.7
Number of serious occupational accidents 4)≤ 8 13 14**
Sickness related absences, % ≤ 2.4 2.3*** 2.4
1) Fires, leaks, explosions, INES events exceeding level 0, dam safety incidents, environmental non-compliances. INES = International Nuclear Event Scale
2) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
3) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
4) Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability or a sick-leave of more than 30 days
* By the year 2020
** The figure revised for reporting in 2015
*** The figure has become more defined from the one presented in the interim report and the operating and financial review (2.4%).Successes and development needs:
• Our reputation amongst the most important stakeholder groups 
in the One Fortum survey improved in 2016 and exceeded the 
target  . The target for customer satisfaction was achieved in all 
business areas, except in electricity sales to business customers  .
• We achieved our target in specific carbon dioxide emissions  . 
In 2016, specific emissions from total energy production were 
184 gCO 2/kWh  . 
• The replacement of the Loviisa nuclear power plant’s two high-
pressure turbines and the Suomenoja power plant’s new district 
heat storage improved the energy efficiency of our production 
in Finland  . Refurbishment of the Chelyabinsk CHP-3 unit’s 
gas turbine improved energy efficiency in Russia  . Through 
the projects implemented, an annual energy savings of about 
245 GWh was achieved  .
• We strive to be a safe workplace for own and our contractors’ 
employees  . In 2016, we achieved the lost workday injury 
frequency target for our own and our contractors’ employees, 
but there were still too many serious accidents  . There were no 
injuries leading to a fatality during the year  .
• In 2016 we signed an agreement for an external service provider 
to conduct supplier audits; the first audit performed by an 
external actor was carried out in December  . In 2016 we focused 
on auditing fuel suppliers in particular  . We audited a total of 
13 suppliers in seven countries  .Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
9Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Our targets for 2017
Our sustainability targets are based on continuous operational 
improvement  . In our target-setting for 2017 we have taken into 
consideration the potential occupational safety impacts of Fortum’s 
growth strategy and business acquisitions  . It is likely that, until 
Fortum’s occupational safety practices have been integrated in the 
new functions, the acquisitions will temporarily weaken Fortum’s 
current good level of occupational safety  .
There are still too many serious injuries occurring in our 
operations  . Starting in 2017 the focus of our monitoring is on 
accidents that have serious consequences, rather than on the length 
of the sick-leave  . These include accidents leading to a fatality or 
permanent disability and accidents that could have caused serious 
consequences  . 
A new indicator we will track in 2017 is the quality of the 
investigations of occupational accidents, serious EHS incidents, 
and near misses  . The goal is that the investigation of each incident 
is done in accordance with guidelines, and more than 90% of 
the corrective actions are implemented on schedule (target level 
1 .0) . By 2020 the goal is for 100% of the corrective actions to be 
implemented on schedule, the investigations to use experts from 
across division boundaries and the lessons learned from the 
incidents to be actively shared (target level 1  .5) .Group sustainability targets in 2017
 Target 2017 Target 2020
Reputation index, based on One Fortum Survey 70.7 Not defined
Customer satisfaction index (CSI), based on One Fortum Survey CSI divisional scores 
at level "good" 
(70–74)CSI divisional scores 
at level "good" 
(70–74)
Environmental responsibility   
Specific CO 2 emissions
Total energy production, g/kWh, 5-year average < 200 < 200 
Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency improvement by year 2020, base line year 2012, GWh/ a  Target only for year 
2020  > 1,400 
Major EHS incidents 1)≤ 21 ≤ 15
Social responsibility   
Security of supply
CHP plant energy availability, % > 95 > 95
Occupational safety
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 2), own personnel  ≤ 2.5  ≤ 2.0
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), own personnel  ≤ 1.0  ≤ 1.0
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), contractors ≤ 3.5 ≤ 2.0
Number of severe occupational accidents 4) ≤ 5 0
Quality of occupational accidents, major EHS incident and near misses investigation process Level 1.0 Level 1.5
Sickness related absences, % ≤ 2.3 ≤ 2.3
1) Fires, leaks, explosions, INES events exceeding level 0, dam safety incidents, environmental non-compliances. INES = International Nuclear Event Scale
2) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
3) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
4) Accidents leading to a fatality or permanent disability and accidents that could have caused serious consequencesEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
10Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Sustainability management at Fortum is strategy-driven and is based on the company’s values, the
Code of Conduct , the Supplier Code of Conduct  and the policies and their specifying instructions 
defined at the Group level  . We comply with laws and regulations  . All of our operations are guided by good 
governance, effective risk management, adequate controls and the internal audit principles supporting 
them .
Fortum’s goal is a high level of environmental and safety management in all business activities  . 
Calculated in terms of sales, 99  .9% of Fortum’s electricity and heat production operations at the end of  2016 
were ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified  . The divisions and sites develop their operations with internal 
and external audits required by environmental, occupational safety and quality management systems  .
Responsibilities
Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum’s strategy and the highest decision-making authority in these 
issues is with the Board of Directors, which has joint responsibility in matters related to sustainability  . For 
this reason, Fortum has not designated a Sustainability Committee for decision-making on economic, 
environmental and social issues  . The Audit and Risk Committee, members of the Fortum Executive 
Management, and other senior executives support the Board of Directors in the decision-making in these 
matters, when necessary  .
The Fortum Executive Management decides on the sustainability approach and Group-level 
sustainability targets that guide annual planning  . The targets are ultimately approved by Fortum’s 
Board of Directors  . Fortum Executive Management monitors the achievement of the targets in its 
monthly meetings and in quarterly performance reviews  . The achievement of the targets is regularly 
reported also to Fortum’s Board of Directors  . 
Fortum’s line management is responsible for sustainability management, and realisation of the 
safety targets is part of Fortum’s incentive system  . Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability unit is responsible 
for coordination and development of sustainability at the Group level and for maintaining an adequate 
situation awareness regarding sustainability  .
Sustainability management by topic
Sustainability management in the areas of economic responsibility, environmental responsibility 
and social responsibility is described in more detail in the Appendix 1  . Additionally, more detailed 
information about the management of different aspects and impacts is presented by topic in this 
Sustainability Report .
 Corporate Governance Statement 2016
 Remuneration Statement 2016Governance and management
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
11Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Fortum is a member of the UN Global Compact initiative and the UN Caring for Climate initiative  . 
Fortum supports and respects the international initiatives and commitments, and national and 
international guidelines listed in the table, and they guide our operations in the areas of economic, 
environmental and social responsibility  .
In December 2016, Fortum's sustainability policy was updated to be in line with our new strategy  .
Group-level EHS instructions and minimum requirements set requirements for all the operations for 
which we have operative responsibility  . In 2016 we updated these requirements and published a revised 
version of the Corporate Safety and Security handbook together with an e-learning  .
We report on the training related to the updated instructions in the sections Business ethics and 
compliance , Occupational and operational safety  and Supply chain management  .
The company’s Group-level policies are approved by Fortum’s Board of Directors  . The Group-level 
instructions are approved by either the President and CEO or the Fortum Executive Management  .
Fortum’s main internal policies and instructions guiding sustainability are listed in the 
Appendix 2  .Policies and commitments International and national initiatives, commitments and guidelines
Economic 
responsi-  
bilityEnviron-  
mental 
responsi-  
bilitySocial 
responsi-  
bility: 
Labour 
practices 
and decent 
workSocial 
responsi-  
bility: 
Human 
rightsSocial 
responsi-  
bility: 
SocietySocial 
responsi-  
bility: 
Product 
responsi-  
bility
The UN Universal 
Declaration of Human 
Rights  x x   
International Covenant 
on Economic, Social 
and Cultural Rightsx  x x   
International Covenant 
on Civil and Political 
Rights  x x   
The UN Convention on 
the Rights of the Child  x x  x
The core conventions 
of the International 
Labour Organisation  x x   
The UN Global 
Compact initiativex x x x x  
The UN Caring for 
Climate initiative x     
The UN Guiding 
Principles on Business 
and Human Rights  x x x  
The OECD Guidelines 
for Multinational 
Enterprisesx x x x x x
The International 
Chamber of 
Commerce’s 
anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption 
guidelinesx    x  
The Bettercoal 
initiative’s Code on 
responsible coal 
miningx x x x x  
Responsible 
advertising and 
marketing guidelines     x
Environmental 
marketing guidelines     xEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
12Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Business ethics and compliance
We believe there is a clear connection between high standards of 
ethical business practices and excellent financial results  . As an 
industry leader, we obey the law, we embrace the spirit of integrity, 
and we uphold ethical business conduct wherever we operate  . 
Code of Conduct sets the basic requirements 
The Fortum Code of Conduct and Fortum Supplier Code of Conduct 
define how we treat others, engage in business, safeguard our 
corporate assets, and how we expect our suppliers and business 
partners to operate  .
Fortum’s Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s 
mission and values and has approved the Fortum Code of Conduct  . 
The online training on the Code of Conduct is part of the induction 
programme for new employees  . The Supplier Code of Conduct is 
based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and has been 
approved by the Head of Procurement in collaboration with the 
purchasing steering group  . 
About 95% of Fortum’s total purchasing volume, excluding 
purchases by Ekokem and DUON, is purchased from suppliers with 
a purchasing volume of EUR 50,000 or more  . Geographically they 
target mainly suppliers in Finland, Sweden, Russia and Poland  . 
The Supplier Code of Conduct is part of purchase agreements 
exceeding EUR 50,000  .
In line with the Code of Conduct, Fortum has zero tolerance 
for corruption and fraud and does not award donations to political 
parties or political activities, religious organisations, authorities, 
municipalities or local administrations  .
Compliance risks 
The compliance risks related to our business operations include the 
potential risk of bribery or corruption, fraud and embezzlement, 
non-compliance with legislation or company rules, conflicts of 
interest, improper use of company assets, and working under the 
influence of alcohol or drugs  .Compliance risk management is an integrated part of business 
operations, and key compliance risks, including action plans, are 
identified, assessed and reported annually  . This applies also to the 
management of risks related to sustainability  . During 2016, Fortum 
has launched a Total Compliance programme which covers key 
areas of regulatory compliance and business ethics  . 
Training
As part of the Total Compliance programme, an training plan is 
developed annually  . 
In 2016, training on compliance with regulations was provided 
in Russia and India  . The new Fortum employees acquired through 
an acquisition in Poland received Fortum’s Code of Conduct 
training related to business ethics  . 
Training on the new Market Abuse Regulation and insider 
regulations was provided for certain management teams  . 
Training on internal controls was also arranged for division-
level management teams  . Training on competition law issues 
was provided for the functions responsible for sales and for the 
individuals joining Fortum through acquisitions  .
The pre-selection process for Fortum’s goods and service 
suppliers was renewed in spring 2016  . Related training was 
provided for procurement personnel in all countries, except Poland 
and Russia  . The training will be arranged in Poland during spring 
2017  . The pre-selection process will be taken into use in Ekokem’s 
procurements during autumn 2017  .
Reporting misconduct 
In addition to internal reporting channels, Fortum has an external 
“Raise a concern” channel  . The same mechanism is used for 
reporting any suspected misconduct relating to the environment, 
labour practices or human rights violations, and it is available to 
all stakeholders  . In Russia, Fortum has a separate compliance 
organisation in place and employees there are encouraged to use the channels provided by the compliance organisation  . They may, 
however, also use the “Raise a concern” channel should they 
so wish  . 
Suspected misconduct and measures related to ethical business 
practices and compliance with regulations are regularly reported 
to the Fortum Executive Management and to the Board’s Audit and 
Risk Committee  .
Suspected cases of misconduct 
A total of 149 reports of suspected misconduct were made  . Of 
these cases, 72 led to an investigation; at the end of the year, 
there were four ongoing investigations  . About one third of the 
investigated cases were related to non-compliance either with 
laws and regulations or with company rules which constituted 
majority of the cases  . In these cases, corrective action was taken by 
reviewing and developing existing processes and instructions and 
by providing training for employees  .
Fortum has zero tolerance towards alcohol and drug use  . About 
a fifth of the cases were related to alcohol abuse by either Fortum’s 
or contractors’ employees during working hours  . 
As a result of the investigations, four employment contracts 
were terminated either by immediate dismissal or by mutual 
agreement, and four written warnings were given  . There were 
13 cases of misconduct reported to the police  . There was no cause 
for action to be taken in 16 of the cases investigated  . 
Three cases of suspected corruption or bribery related to 
Fortum’s operations were investigated in 2016  . Misconduct was not 
detected in the investigations  .
Fortum also requires its goods and service suppliers as well as 
its business partners to comply with a zero tolerance policy towards 
corruption and bribery  . As part of supply chain management, we 
requested a report from the goods and service suppliers we had 
knowledge of possible cases of misconduct  . We requested the 
reports to include information about e  .g . the corrective measures Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
13Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
taken related to the supplier’s own operations  . The reports 
were considered sufficient and didn’t lead to the termination of 
a contract  . Other misconduct led to the termination of a contract 
with one goods and service supplier  . 
We deal with potential cases of corruption in a professional 
manner, in accordance with the defined compliance investigation 
process, in line with applicable laws and with respect to the rights 
and personal integrity of all parties involved  .
Restricting competition 
There were three ongoing investigation cases in Russia in 2016, 
one of which was completed during the year  . The court found no 
violation of competition law  . 
During the year Fortum was not subject to any significant 
monetary fines for competition law violations  . 
Other significant fines 
There were no other significant fines  .
Fortum Code of Conduct
Fortum Supplier Code of Conduct
Environmental grievances
Labour practices and human rights grievances
Incidents of discrimination
Fines related to environmental non-compliances
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
14Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Stakeholders
Our way of operating responsibly includes continuously identifying 
the views of our stakeholders and finding a balance between the 
different expectations our stakeholders have  . Dialogue, feedback 
and good collaboration are the key ways to promote a mutual 
understanding with our stakeholders  . 
Stakeholder collaboration 
Collaboration with different stakeholder groups helps Fortum to 
assess and meet the expectations that stakeholder groups have 
towards the company  . We engage in an active dialogue with the 
different stakeholders associated with our operations  . We conduct 
annual stakeholder surveys  . We monitor and assess the public 
dialogue in the countries where we operate, and we have increased 
the dialogue with our stakeholders also through social media 
channels  . Feedback from customers drives the development of our 
products and services  . Additionally, our activities in national and 
international organisations help to deepen our understanding of 
global sustainability issues and their connections to our business  . 
Management of stakeholder collaboration at Fortum is assigned 
particularly to communications, corporate relations, human 
resources, the sustainability unit, the functions responsible for 
electricity and heat sales and energy production, as well as many of 
our experts  . Responsibilities for managing stakeholder collaboration 
are primarily determined by stakeholder group or interaction 
theme  . Key interaction areas, e  .g . public affairs, and corporate 
communications, have annual plans that guide the activities  . 
Fortum has an informal Advisory Council consisting of 
representatives of Fortum’s stakeholder groups as invited by the 
Board of Directors  . The Advisory Council aims to increase the 
dialogue and the exchange of views between the company and its 
stakeholders  . 
Information through surveys
In collaboration with third parties, we annually conduct surveys 
regarding stakeholder collaboration  . The aim of these surveys is Our stakeholder surveys
Survey Target groups Target countries Frequency
One Fortum Survey Customers
General public
Public administration
Capital markets
NGOs
Opinion leaders
Personnel
Media Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, 
Baltic countries, Russia, India Customer satisfaction is measured 
semi-annually
Reputation is measured annually 
Media tracking Media All operating countries Daily
Brand tracking General public and customers Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, 
Baltic countries Continuously in Finland and 
Sweden, annually in other countries
Fortum Sound personnel survey Own personnel All operating countries Every second yearto help Fortum assess and respond to the important stakeholder 
groups’ expectations of the company  . The surveys also measure 
the success of our stakeholder collaboration  . Additionally, the 
surveys provide information about emerging sustainability trends 
and risks we should acknowledge  . We use the survey results in 
business planning and development and in identifying material 
aspects in corporate responsibility  . 
The One Fortum survey and its results in terms of customer 
satisfaction and reputation are presented in the section 
Customer satisfaction and reputation  . As part of the One 
Fortum survey, we regularly survey what our stakeholders consider 
to be the most important areas of sustainability  . Feedback from customers  
drives the development  
of our products and services.
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
15Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Stakeholder expectations and responses to them
Stakeholders  Stakeholder expectations Fortum’s actions 
Lenders and 
shareholders• Long-term value creation
• High-yield share
• Responsible operations• We updated our growth strategy in 2016 and its realisation is ongoing
• We are committed to achieving our financial targets 
• Our goal is to pay a stable, sustainable and over time increasing dividend of 50-80% of earnings per share excluding one-off items
• We take economic, social and environmental responsibility into consideration in our business
Customers • Competitively priced products
• Useful additional services and advice
• Reliability• With efficient operations and high-quality products, we ensure that we are competitive and our customers feel they get their money’s worth
• We develop new products and services in collaboration with customers so that we can serve them better in the evolving markets: In 2016 
‘Customer in the centre’ programme
• We deliver what we promise to our customers, and we offer constantly better customer service through different channels
Personnel • Equal treatment and open interaction 
• Job security and incentivising compensation 
• Opportunities for professional development 
• Occupational safety and work wellbeing • We operate in line with Fortum’s Code of Conduct and values
• Our employee compensation is based on standardised principles:  We renewed our compensation scheme  in 2016
• We promote job rotation, career development and supervisory skills
• We improve occupational safety  and work wellbeing : In 2016 we launched the Energise Your Day work wellbeing programme
Service 
and goods 
suppliers • Good financial position and the ability to take care  
of the agreed obligations
• Fair and equal treatment of suppliers
• Long-term business relations and development  
of business and products/services
• Responsible operations • We comply with Fortum’s Code of Conduct, and with agreements, legislation and practices that are consistent with good procurement 
principles
• We renewed the supplier pre-selection process  in 2016
• We manage supplier relationships in a systematic manner 
• We train contractors in work safety
Authorities 
and decision 
makers• Compliance
• Integration of sustainability with strategy and business, risk 
management 
• Transparency and reliable reporting
• Maintaining dialogue• We comply with laws, regulations and permits
• We develop our business and the management of environmental and safety risks: Sustainability policy and EHS instructions were 
renewed  in 2016
• We report ESG factors as part of the company’s value creation, and we publish our tax footprint: Fortum’s 2015 Annual Report was 
awarded as the winner in the Taxpaying category and as the best in sustainability reporting in Finland according to investors
• We communicate openly and we actively engage in a dialogue with authorities and decision makers about key issues in the energy sector: 
In 2016, we actively participated in the renewal work of EU’s emissions trading directive both at the EU level and nationally
Media • Relevant, reliable and transparent communication • In line with our Disclosure policy , we communicate proactively and openly
• We communicate about issues of topical and media interest through multiple channels
• We meet regularly with media representatives
• We are easily accessible through the media desk and through social media
• We continuously improve our crisis communication preparedness
Energy sector 
organisations • Advocating on behalf of shared interests
• Dialogue and expertise• We advocate our shareholders’ and the sector’s shared interests and actively participate in organisational activities in our sector:  
in 2016 a favourable solution for the energy sector was achieved in Sweden in nuclear and hydropower taxation
• We publish position papers and views on energy-sector development, and we actively communicate them through multiple channels:  
In 2016, we published two Fortum Energy Reviews
Non-
governmental 
organisations • Responsibility of operations and risk management
• Promoting renewable energy production
• Reliable and open reporting • We develop environmental and safety risk management
• We invest in renewable energy: In 2016, a total of EUR 223 million
• We collaborate with Finnish and Swedish nature conservation associations regarding our environmentally benign electricity products 
• We communicate actively and we report openly 
Local 
communities • Operational safety
• Developing employment, infrastructure and recreational use
• Reducing emissions, noise and other inconveniences• We invest in infrastructure and operational safety 
• We collaborate with local communities in all our operating countries: Examples of our activities in 2016
• We aim to reduce emissions and local environmental impactsEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
16Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Most important concerns of stakeholders in 2016
Coal use
With the Paris Agreement on climate change, the use of coal has 
become a topic of active discussion  . Several countries (including 
Finland) have announced their discontinuation of coal use for 
energy production in the upcoming decades  . Implementation of 
this, however, is challenging, and a total ban may lead to claims for 
compensation  . The energy sector considers a ban on use as negative 
for competition and for the sector’s business operations, and it 
sees emissions trading as the primary mechanism for steering 
energy choice  .
An increasing number of investors are paying attention also 
to the carbon risk of their investment targets and have initiated 
actions to reduce it by, e  .g ., announcing that they will divest their 
holding in companies in which sales of coal-based production 
exceed the investor-defined limit  . Discontinuing the use of coal has 
long been on the agenda of environmental and non-governmental 
organisations  . 4% of Fortum’s electricity production and 17% of its 
heat production was based on coal in 2016  .
Biomass fuel use 
Increasing the use of biomass fuels plays a central role in 
achieving the EU’s climate and energy targets  . The sustainability 
of biomass fuels has been actively discussed in the energy 
sector in recent years  . In November 2016 the EU Commission 
published its proposal on legislation that would extend the 
current regulations on liquid biofuels to cover also solid biomass  . Fortum’s position, whereby common, binding sustainability 
criteria are needed for all biomass fuels, aligns with the 
Commission’s view  .
Environmental organisations have expressed their concern 
related to increasing the use of biomass fuels  . The organisations 
have put particular emphasis on the threat of forest biodiversity 
degradation and the diminishing carbon sinks  .
Taxes
The country-specific reporting of taxes has become an important 
topic in international and national public and political 
discussions  . The aim of public, country-specific tax reporting is 
to impact primarily so-called aggressive tax planning  . Fortum has 
published its tax footprint since 2012  . Our tax report has received 
both praise and criticism  . Our tax report has been criticised for 
not containing information about all the companies in line with 
the principle of materiality we apply and for including also other 
taxes beyond income taxes  . Fortum’s taxation has been discussed 
publically also in terms of Fortum’s various tax processes  . 
It is important for us that our tax reporting creates an 
understandable, comprehensive picture of Fortum as a tax payer  . 
This requires the reporting of material income taxes and also the 
reporting of other non-income taxes as well as the publishing 
of taxation-related principles  . For the sake of transparency, 
information about various tax processes of significance must 
also be disclosed  . We engage in dialogue with non-governmental 
organisations and continuously develop reporting to improve 
understandability  .
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
17Our contribution 
to the SDGsPolicies and 
commitmentsGovernance and 
managementSustainability 
indexesKey sustainability 
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics 
and compliance
Sustainability indexes
Fortum was ranked as the top company in the utilities sector 
in the annual CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Nordic 
rating 2016  . Fortum scored A- (scale from D to A, A being the 
highest score)  . CDP represents 827 institutional investors  .
German oekom research AG has awarded Fortum a Prime 
Status (B-) rating  . Prime Status means that Fortum is among 
the best companies in its sector and fulfils industry-specific 
best-in-class requirements  . Oekom research AG annually 
assesses about 3,000 companies  .
 Fortum is included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices which 
list global leaders in terms of environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) criteria  . The family of indices is made up of three specialised 
indexes for the categories mentioned and one broad index which 
sums up the specialized indexes  .
 
Fortum has been included in the NASDAQ OMX and GES 
Investment Service’s OMX GES Sustainability Finland index  . 
It provides investors with reliable and objective information about 
company performance in sustainability  . GES Investment Services 
compares leading companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 
and their responsibility in environmental, social and governance 
issues  . The 40 top-ranking companies in the assessment are 
included in the index  .
 Fortum is included in the ECPI® Indices  . These indices are 
used for benchmarking, thematic investments, risk management 
purposes and to create index-tracking investment strategies or 
ETF’s (Exchange-traded funds)  . ECPI is a leading rating and index 
company dedicated to ESG Research (Environmental, Social and 
Governance) since 1997  .
 
Fortum has been integrated into the Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 
120 index as of December 2016  . This index distinguishes the 
120 companies in the Eurozone region achieving the most 
advanced environmental, social and governance performances  . 
The assessment is based on a review of up to 330 indicators  .
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
18For Fortum, economic responsibility means 
competiveness, performance excellence and market-
driven production that create long-term value for our 
stakeholders and enable sustainable growth. Satisfied 
customers are key to our success and active consumers 
will have a crucial role in the future energy system. 
Fortum has indirect responsibility for its supply chain. 
We conduct business with viable companies that act 
responsibly and comply with the Fortum Code of 
Conduct and the Supplier Code of Conduct.Economic responsibility
Economic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
19Fortum is a significant economic actor in Finland, Sweden, 
Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries  . We continuously 
monitor the impact and well-being generated by our operations 
to our stakeholders  . The key stakeholders include lenders and 
shareholders, customers, personnel, suppliers of goods and 
services, and the public sector  .
The most significant direct monetary flows of Fortum’s 
operations come from sales revenue from customers, procurements 
from suppliers of goods and services, compensation to lenders and 
dividend to shareholders, growth and maintenance investments, 
employee wages and salaries, and taxes paid  .
Our operations also have indirect economic impacts  . The 
Finnish State owns 50  .8% of Fortum’s shares, and we contribute 
to a functioning society by, among other things, paying taxes and 
dividends  . These secure society’s basic functions and build well-
being  . Investments and the procurement of goods and services 
provide employment both locally and outside our operating areas  . 
New investment proposals are assessed against sustainability 
criteria  . In terms of suppliers of goods and services, we also assess 
the global impacts, paying particular attention to suppliers of 
goods and services operating in risk countries  . The wages and taxes 
paid have a positive impact on local communities  .Economic impacts 
The discontinued operations include the total net cash ﬂow from the divestment of the Swedish electricity distribution business in 2015, 
including the proceeds from the divestment.Customers
 EUR 3,705 millionDivestments
 EUR 49 million
Personnel
 EUR 334 millionPublic sector
 EUR 514 millionSuppliers
 EUR 2,128 million
Lenders and shareholders
 EUR 1,086 millionCapital expenditures
 EUR 599 millionAcquisitions of shares
 EUR 695 million2015: EUR 55 million 2015: EUR 3,517 million
2015: EUR 351 million
2015: EUR 1,119 million 2015: EUR 527 million 2015: EUR 43 million2015: EUR 351 million 2015: EUR 1,623 millionDiscontinued operations
 EUR 0 million
2015: EUR 6,457 millionDistribution of added valueEconomic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
20Monetary flows by stakeholder group in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EC1)
EUR million 2016 2015 2014 
Generation of added value    
Income from customers Income from customers on the basis of products and services sold 
and financial income. 3,705 3,517 4,309
Divestments Income from divestment of shares, business activities or plants 49 55 499
Purchases from suppliers Payments to suppliers of raw materials, goods and services -2,128 -1,623 -2,105
Fortum produced added value  1,627 1,950 2,703
Distribution of added value    
Employees compensations Wages, salaries and remunerations and other indirect employee costs -334 -351 -369
Lenders and shareholders compensations Dividents paid to lenders, interest, realised foreign exchange gains 
and losses and other financial expenses-1,086 -1,119 -951
Public sector Income and production taxes paid, support for society and donations -514 -351 -455
Distributed to stakeholders, total  -1,934 -1,821 -1,776
Surplus/ deficit cash -307 128 928
Capital expenditures -599 -527 -622
Acquisitions of shares -695 -43 -69
Discontinued operations 1) 6,457 2,911
Surplus/ deficit including investments 
and discontinued operations-1,601 6,015 3,148
1) Includes the electricity distribution business divested in 2014 and 2015.
In 2016, the difference between added value generated 
and distributed to stakeholders was negative, 
EUR -307 (2015: 128) million  . 
The distribution of the economic added value generated by our 
operations to the most significant operating areas is reported in 
the following parts of the annual reporting: 
  Sales by market area based on customer location:  
Financial Statements, Note 5
Employee costs by country  
Tax footprint
We have included investments in our own assessment of economic 
impacts, as their annual volume and impact on the society is 
significant  . In 2016 we invested EUR 262 (2015: 223) million in 
CO 2 free energy production  . Capital expenditure by country and by production type is presented in the Financial Statements, 
Note 19  .2 Capital Expenditure  . 
Provisions related to nuclear power are covered in the Financial 
statements, Note 30 Nuclear related assets and liabilities  . Financial 
implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate 
change, as well as emissions trading are reported in the section 
Climate change mitigation  . Our pension arrangements conform 
to the local regulations and practices in each operating country; 
the arrangements are discussed in the Financial Statements, 
Note 32 Pension obligations  .
In 2016 we received financial support from the public sector 
in the form of investments, R&D and other significant grants 
totalling EUR 4 (2015: 6) million  . The figure excludes free emission 
allowances and electricity certificates as well as electricity and heat 
price related subsidies  .
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
21Economic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
For Fortum, customer satisfaction and reputation are a top priority 
in implementing the company’s strategy and in growing the 
business  . We have set Group-wide targets for customer satisfaction 
and for our reputation .  
Customer in the centre 
The Group-wide Customer in the centre development programme 
was launched in 2015 with the aim of promoting a customer-centric 
culture in our company  . The programme continued in 2016  . Our 
new strategy, published in February and further defined in autumn, 
also put customers in sharper focus  . In conjunction with the 
publication of the strategy, we launched five must-win battle (MWB) 
development programmes, one of which is “Put the customer in 
the centre”  . The programme contains specific projects to improve 
the customer experience and our offering, e  .g ., by utilising the 
opportunities brought by digitalisation .  In our development efforts, 
we are engaging in increasingly closer collaboration with our 
customers .
One Fortum survey provides information 
about all stakeholder groups 
We use the extensive One Fortum survey to annually measure 
customer and stakeholder satisfaction as well as changes in 
the company’s reputation and the factors that impact it  . The survey 
covers customers, public administrations, capital markets, non-Customer satisfaction and reputation 
governmental organisations and opinion makers as well as Fortum’s 
personnel  . In Finland and Sweden, we also survey the views of 
the general public and media  . 
We conducted the survey in 2016 in Finland, Sweden, Norway, 
Poland, the Baltic countries, Russia and India  . Over 4,000 
customers and nearly 3,300 other stakeholders were interviewed 
for the One Fortum survey  . In addition, we added a new component 
to our research side: in autumn we conducted a follow-up survey 
among customers so that we can indentify our customers’ changing 
needs even faster  . We also monitor other publically available 
research sources, but we define Group targets and our identified 
development areas on the basis of the One Fortum survey results  .
Customer satisfaction 
In the annual survey conducted in spring 2016, our customer 
satisfaction remained very stable in virtually all customer segments  . 
The autumn follow-up survey brought slightly more changes, as 
satisfaction among electricity sales customers in Sweden, particularly 
in the consumer side, was clearly slipping  . However, at the same 
time, we succeeded in increasing the satisfaction among district 
heat business customers in several countries – and in Finland and 
Lithuania we achieved our best-ever result  . Our customer satisfaction 
is at a good level in most countries and customer segments  . 
Our Group-level target for all business areas is to achieve a 
customer satisfaction rating of “good”, i  .e . 70–74, in the One Fortum survey  . Customer satisfaction in 2016 was at a good level 
in all business areas, except electricity sales to business customers  . 
The results of the One Fortum survey clearly indicate that these 
days customers are looking for advice and additional services 
related to their energy use  .
Other public customer satisfaction results
The international and independent EPSI Rating annually surveys 
the level of satisfaction of electricity retail company customers in 
Finland, Sweden and Norway  . Our customer satisfaction dropped 
in all three countries, particularly in Sweden  . 
In 2016 a customer satisfaction survey using the same format 
was conducted for the first time in Ekokem in all operating 
countries  . Ekokem’s overall rating in the survey was 4  .1 on a scale 
of one to five; this result is considered as good  . 
Customer satisfaction 1) in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-PR5)
 2016 2015 2014
Finland 73 75 74
Sweden 53 64 63
Norway 73 76 70
1) EPSI research method in Finland and Norway; Svenskt Kvalitetsindex in SwedenEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
22Economic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
Reputation
Our reputation is strongest among public administration, opinion 
makers and nongovernmental organisations  . Among the latter 
group, our reputation index grew significantly compared to the 
previous year  . The biggest drop occurred in the capital markets 
stakeholder group, where our reputation index fell to the same 
level as the rating given by media  . Our reputation continues to be 
weakest among the general public  . Based on the survey results, 
we should continue our efforts to improve social responsibility and 
customer centricity  . 
The Group-level target for our reputation in 2016 was a rating of 
72 .0 in the One Fortum survey, measured as the average rating 
given by public administration, opinion makers, nongovernmental 
organisations, and personnel  . In 2016, we achieved a rating of 
72 .5 among these stakeholder groups  . The target set for 2017 
(70 .7) includes the above-mentioned stakeholder groups as well as 
the opinions of representatives of media, capital markets and the 
general public  . The reference value is the reputation index (69  .7) 
given by these stakeholder groups for 2016  . Rankings given by 
customers are not included in the reputation index calculation, 
because we treat customer satisfaction as a separate entity  . 
Brand
In addition to our reputation, we also monitor brand development, 
i .e . what impression the general public has about our brand  . The 
survey includes the measurement of e  .g ., recognition, preference 
and brand attributes  . Fortum is very well recognised in Finland, 
but less so in our other operating countries; we are working to 
boost our recognition  . At the same time, our aim is to change our 
brand image and to enhance our attractiveness among various 
stakeholder groups  . 
Stakeholders67–79
Customer satisfaction
Target: good (70–74)
72.5
Reputation
Target: 72.0
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
23Economic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
Purchases, EUR million
 Investments, 599
 Fuels, 531
 Other purchases, 1,412Fortum is a significant purchaser of goods and services  . We 
actively strive to reduce the environmental impacts caused by our 
operations and to improve economic and social wellbeing  . We also 
manage risks related to our supply chain  . The aim is that open and 
efficient collaboration creates value for both parties  .
Fuel purchases and investments in a significant role
Fortum’s purchasing volume in 2016 was EUR 2  .5 (2015: 2  .2) 
billion  . Fuel purchases, investments, and electricity purchased 
by the Electricity Sales business area from the Nordic wholesale 
electricity market for retail sales accounted for the majority of 
Fortum’s purchases  .
Fortum’s fuel purchases in 2016 totalled EUR 531 (2015: 567) 
million  . We purchase fuels from international and local suppliers  . 
Our fossil fuel purchases totalled about EUR 454 (2015: 482) 
million, biomass fuels about EUR 39 (2015: 46) million, and nuclear 
fuel about EUR 38 (2015: 39) million  . 
Of our purchases, EUR 599 (2015: 527) million targeted various 
investments  . The biggest investments, EUR 214 million, were made 
in Russia  . A large share of the investments are contracted out in full 
with materials, installation and other service as well as contractor 
work included in the total purchase  .
The rest of our purchases, EUR 1  .4 (2015: 1  .1) billion, consist of 
other goods and services  . The figure includes electricity purchased 
by the Electricity Sales business area from the Nordic wholesale 
electricity market for retail sales  . The other goods and services 
purchases were related to operation and maintenance as well as to 
other functions, such as IT solutions, marketing and travel  .Supply chain management 
Half of purchases from Europe 
About half, i  .e . 52%, of the purchasing volume was purchased 
from suppliers operating in Europe, mostly in Finland, Sweden and 
Poland  . This does not include electricity purchases from the Nordic 
wholesale market  . 46% of Fortum’s purchases were from risk 
countries  . The majority of these purchases were from Russia  .
Violations related to work conditions and human rights are 
more likely in risk countries than in non-risk countries  . Fortum’s 
risk-country classification is based on the ILO’s Decent Work 
Agenda, the UN's Human Development index and Transparency 
International's Corruption Perceptions index  .
In 2016 we had about 15,000 (2015: 9,700) suppliers of goods 
and services  . The increase in the number of suppliers was impacted 
by Fortum’s acquisition of Ekokem and DUON  . About 1,600 of the 
suppliers were in risk countries  . Excluding the Russia Division’s 
local suppliers, there were about 270 suppliers in risk countries  .Sustainable fuel purchasing 
The most significant environmental impacts of our supply chain 
are related mainly to fuels, particularly to coal and biomasses  . 
There are significant environmental aspects associated with open-
pit coal mining, including natural resource efficiency, emissions 
to air, water and soil, and impacts on biodiversity  . Significant 
occupational health and safety risks can be related to working 
in underground mines  . The sustainability aspects of biomass 
sourcing are related primarily to biodiversity, but risks particularly 
outside the EU can also include, for instance, illegal logging or 
human rights violations  .
In fuel purchasing, special attention is paid to the origin of the 
fuel and to responsible production  . In 2016 we had 170 suppliers in 
our fuel supply chain, 6% of them operated in risk countries  .
 Purchases 1) excluding investments in 2014–2016
EUR million 2016 2015 2014 
Nordic countries 1,106 935 1,017
Russia 505 546 670
Poland 279 138 141
Estonia 26 26 29
Other countries 27 32 123
Total 1,943 1,677 1,980
1) Includes purchases of fuel, power and other materials and services.Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
24Economic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
Natural gas
The natural gas used in Russia, the Baltic countries and Finland 
originated from several suppliers in Russia  . The natural gas used in 
Poland was purchased mainly from Poland  .
Coal 
The coal used in Finland originated from Russia  . The coal used in 
Poland originated mainly from Poland  . The power plants in Russia 
used coal originating from Russia and Kazakhstan  .
In Finland, we have a legal obligation to have an amount of 
fuels in reserve equivalent to three months of average electricity 
production  . There are no similar legal obligations in other 
countries, but we do maintain sufficient reserves for uninterrupted 
energy production in all countries where we operate  .
Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal initiative, and uses the 
Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the coal 
supply chain .Biomass
The biomass we used consisted mainly of forest residue chips, chips 
from roundwood and industrial wood residues that originated from 
Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries and Poland  . About 60% of the 
forest biomass used by Fortum in 2016 originated from certified, 
sustainably managed forests or from the sphere of the FSC 
Controlled Wood system  . The share was over 80% in Finland  .
Our goal in 2016 was to define minimum requirements related 
to legality and traceability for wood-based biomass and to set a 
target for increasing the share of certified forest biomass  . As the 
work advanced, we decided to combine these two goals, and in 
2017 we will examine the opportunity to apply for Chain of Custody 
certification for the Fortum’s wood-based biomass purchases  .
The bio-oil plant integrated with Fortum’s Joensuu power 
plant has a sustainability system approved by The Finnish Energy 
Authority  . The system is used to prove compliance with nationally 
legislated sustainability criteria for bio-oil  .
Uranium
The fuel assemblies used at the Loviisa power plant in Finland 
are completely of Russian origin  . The fuel supplier acquires 
the uranium used in the fuel assemblies from Russian mines 
in accordance with Fortum’s agreement  . In 2016, the uranium 
originated from the Krasnokamensk, Khiagda and Dalur mines  . 
Both ARMZ Uranium Holding Co  ., a uranium producer, 
and TVEL, which is responsible for refining and manufacturing 
uranium, have environmental and occupational safety systems in 
place in all their plants  . All three uranium mines have ISO 14001 
environmental certification  . The Khiagda mine has also an 
OHSAS 18001 certified occupational health and safety management 
system  . The zirconium material manufacturing plant and the plant 
responsible for manufacturing uranium oxide pellets and fuel 
assemblies have ISO 14001 environmental management system 
certification and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety 
management system certifications  .We regularly assess the quality, environmental, and occupational 
health and safety management systems of our nuclear fuel suppliers 
and the manufacturing of nuclear fuel assemblies  . In summer 
2016 Fortum’s representatives assessed the operations of Fortum’s 
Russian fuel supplier’s uranium enrichment plant  . The plant was 
in good condition technically, and its quality, environmental, 
occupational health and safety management systems were certified  .
Fuel consumption 2016
Sustainable supply chain 
We expect our business partners to act responsibly and to comply 
with the Fortum Code of Conduct and the Supplier Code of 
Conduct  . Fortum’s key tools in supply chain management are 
country and counterparty risk assessments, pre-selection of 
suppliers and supplier audits  . 
Codes of conduct cover basic requirements
The Fortum Code of Conduct forms the foundation for ethical 
business conduct and defines how we treat others, engage in 
business, and safeguard our corporate assets  . 
The Supplier Code of Conduct includes the sustainability 
requirements for suppliers of services and goods  . The Supplier 
Code of Conduct is based on the principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact initiative and is divided into four sections: business 
practices, human rights, labour standards, and the environment  . 
The country and counterparty risk assessment follows the same basic 
structure with regards to sustainability, and addresses issues like the 
implementation of the guiding principles of human rights  . 
The Supplier Code of Conduct is used in all our countries of 
operation and is included in all purchase agreements exceeding 
EUR 50,000  . The Supplier Code of Conduct was updated at the end 
of 2014; by publication date of this report, the training related to 
the updated Supplier Code of Conduct had been held in all our 
operating countries, except Norway and Russia  .Origin of fuels used at Fortum in 2016 1)
Fuel Country of origin
Biomass Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries, Poland 
Coal Russia, Kazakhstan, Poland
Natural gas Russia, Poland
Uranium Russia
Oil Russia
Peat Finland, Estonia
1) The biggest countries of origin in 2016Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
25Economic 
impactsSupply chain 
managementCustomer satisfaction 
and reputation
Pre-selection of suppliers
We assess the level of operations of our business partners through 
pre-selection and supplier audits  . The pre-selection process was 
renewed during the spring 2016  . The related training has been 
arranged in all our operating countries, except Poland and Russia  . 
In Poland the training will be held in spring 2017  . The pre-selection 
process will be taken into use in Ekokem’s procurements during 
autumn 2017  . 
The pre-selection is made whenever the purchase volume 
exceeds EUR 50,000  . During the first phase of the pre-selection, 
the credit check is made, and the supplier is sent a short written 
questionnaire  . The questionnaire surveys the supplier’s possible 
operations in risk countries, certified management systems, and 
the occupational safety level of the contractors  . We pay special 
attention also to anti-corruption practices  . 
If potential risks in the supplier’s operations are identified 
through the questionnaire, a more extensive self-assessment 
questionnaire may be sent or a supplier audit is conducted  . The 
extensive self-assessment questionnaire is always sent to fuel 
suppliers and the suppliers of Fortum India  . 
The Russia Division uses its own supplier pre-selection process  . 
Pre-selection is done in accordance with Russian procurement law, 
and bidding is open to all companies  . In the Russian operations, we 
set supplier requirements for business principles and ethics  . 
Supplier audits support assessments
In supplier audits, we assess the supplier’s compliance with the 
requirements in Fortum’s Supplier Code of Conduct  . Audits are 
always done on-site, and they include production inspections, employee interviews, and reviews of documents  . If non-
compliances are found, the supplier makes a plan for corrective 
actions and we monitor the implementation of them  . 
In 2016 we signed an agreement for an external service provider 
to conduct supplier audits; the first audit performed by an external 
actor was carried out in December  . By collaborating with an 
international auditing company, we aim to utilise the expertise of 
the local auditors and, if necessary, increase the number of audits  . 
Fortum’s personnel will also continue to conduct supplier audits, 
especially in Fortum’s own operating countries  .
During the year we audited a total of 13 (2015: 9) suppliers in 
China, India, Russia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland  . Our 
goal in 2017 is to audit 20 suppliers  .
In 2016, most of the non-compliances identified in the audits 
were related to occupational safety, overtime hours, remuneration, 
and management of the suppliers’ own subcontractors  . The audits 
conducted did not reveal non-compliances related to freedom 
of association, discrimination, or child or forced labour, but we 
issued a recommendation to a Chinese supplier to strengthen its 
practices to prevent the potential use of child labour and to ensure 
the non-discrimination of employees in the recruiting process  . 
Recommendations given in environmental issues are related to 
the establishment of environmental systems and the defining of 
environmental targets  .
Fortum uses the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the 
sustainability of the coal supply chain  . Bettercoal audits are always 
conducted by a third, accredited party  . In 2016, one of Fortum’s 
Polish coal supplier was audited  . One of Fortum's Russian coal 
suppliers was audited in 2015  . Suppliers audited in 2016 by supplier type 
 Fuels, 6
 Materials, 4
 Contractors, 2
 Services, 1
Suppliers audited in 2016 by country
 India, 4
 Russia, 3
 China, 2
 Poland, 1
 Latvia, 1
 Lithuania, 1
 Finland, 1Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
26Fortum's aim is to provide our customers with 
environmentally benign products and services. 
We strive to continuously reduce the environmental 
impacts of our operations by using best available 
practices and technologies. We emphasise a circular 
economy, resource and energy efficiency, the use of 
waste and biomass, and climate change mitigation in 
environmental responsibility. 
Our company's know-how in carbon dioxide-free hydro 
and nuclear power production and in energy-efficient 
combined heat and power production, investments in 
solar and wind power, as well as solutions for sustainable 
cities play a key role in environmental responsibility. Environmental responsibility
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
27Environmental impacts
Some of the environmental impacts of energy production are global 
or wide-reaching, some are regional or local  . In terms of Fortum’s 
operations, the key environmental aspects include: 
• Climate change
• Use of renewable energy sources
• Circular economy 
• Flue-gas emissions 
• Hydropower’s environmental impacts and biodiversity 
• Fuel procurement
Climate change mitigation 
We can reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by increasing carbon 
dioxide-free energy production and the use of renewable energy 
sources, and improving energy efficiency of production  . 62% of the 
total electricity we produced in 2016 was carbon dioxide-free  . We 
made several investment decisions that will significantly grow our 
wind and solar power production in the years ahead  . 
Circular economy boosts resource efficiency
We recycle significant amounts of waste and energy production 
by-products generated in our operations  . Additionally, our 
circular economy services separate from municipal waste streams 
substances that can be utilised as materials and for energy 
production .  
The continuous improvement of resource and energy efficiency 
is important in terms of the sufficiency of natural resources and 
climate change mitigation  . In improving the energy efficiency 
of our own production, we have gained expertise that we have 
put to use in providing energy efficiency services to other energy 
companies  . 
New combined heat and power plant in Zabrze, Poland
2016 marked the beginning of an intensive construction phase for Fortum's new combined 
heat and power (CHP) plant in Zabrze, Poland. The plant is planned to start commercial 
operations by the end of 2018, providing district heating to some 70,000 households in 
Zabrze and Bytom. The new plant has a capacity of max 75 MW electricity and 145 MW 
heat and will replace two coal-fired units from the 1950s. 
The plant will be primarily fuelled by refuse-derived fuel (RDF) and coal, but it can also 
use a mixture of fuels and, with a small additional investment, biomass. The amount of 
RDF can be up to 40% of the total fuel usage. The investment is expected to significantly 
improve the efficiency of operations and to reduce carbon dioxide and other emissions, 
such as nitrogen and sulphur oxide emissions. The new power plant complies with high 
environmental standards and with principles of best available techniques. 
New technical solutions significantly reduce the workers’ exposure to harmful conditions 
and decrease the probability of accidents at work for own personnel and contractors. 
More than 300 contractors’ employees work at the construction site every day. About 
2,000 workers have received safety training. Thanks to the high safety standards and 
excellent cooperation between Fortum and the contractors, there has been only one 
minor accident over the course of 420,000 working hours. Advanced combustion technology 
Fuel use generates sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particle 
emissions that degrade air quality and cause acidification of soil 
and water systems  . These emissions can be effectively reduced 
with various flue-gas cleaning technologies  . Special expertise 
in combustion technology is one of Fortum’s strengths, and 
we have supplied our own power plants and many other energy 
companies with combustion technology solutions to reduce 
nitrogen oxide  . Mitigation of hydropower’s environmental impacts
Damming rivers and regulating water systems change the natural 
water levels and discharges and cause changes in aquatic habitats  . 
We actively take part in research activities in the sector and 
implement voluntary and permit-based measures to develop the 
biodiversity, fish populations and the multi-use of water systems 
where we produce hydro power  .
Environmental impacts by production form 
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
28Annual energy savings achieved in 2014–2016
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
 Cumulative energy savings
 Target (year 2020) GW h /a
2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017Number of major EHS incidents in 2014–2016
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0 
 Number of major EHS incidents
 Target pcs
2014 2015 2016 2017g/kWhSpecific carbon dioxide emissions of Fortum’s total 
energy production in 2014–2016
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0 
 Annual specific emissions
 Specific emission (5-year average)
 Target (5-year average) Key figures for environmental responsibility 
2016 2015 2014
Carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1), million tonnes  18.6 19.2 20.3
Sulphur dioxide emissions, tonnes  22,500 19,900 20,400
Nitrogen oxide emissions, tonnes 26,000 26,800 28,700
Particle emissions, tonnes 16,800 17,800 21,300
Specific CO 2 emissions of power generation, g/kWh 173 166 177
Specific CO 2 emissions of power generation in the EU, g/kWh 28 21 39
Specific CO 2 emissions of total energy production, g/kWh 184 181 189
5-year average, g/kWh  188 191 198
Share of CO 2-free energy in power generation, % 62 64 64
Share of renewable energy in power generation, %  30 34 32
Share of renewable energy in heat production, %  7 8 6
Energy efficiency improvement, GWh/ a  245 479* 559*
Utlisation of gypsum originated from energy production, % 100 100 100
Uilisation of ash originated from energy production, %  37 33 34
Waste reused as material, t 66,000
Water withdrawal, million m32,322 2,138 2,186
of which cooling water, million m32,228 2,060 2,094
Major EHS incidents, pcs 22 18 27
of which environmental permit violations, pcs 11 14 15
ISO14001-certified operations in power and heat production, % of sales 99.9 99.9 99.9
* Figures revised for reporting in 2015.Environmental key figures 
The table and graphs present our key targets 
and figures for environmental responsibility  .Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
29Sustainable energy production
Our energy production is based primarily on carbon dioxide-free 
hydro and nuclear power and on energy-efficient combined heat 
and power production  . In line with our strategy, we are targeting a 
gigawatt-scale solar and wind portfolio  . 
Fortum’s power generation in 2016 was 73  .1 (2015: 75  .9) TWh 
and heat production 27  .8 (2015: 32  .2) TWh  . 62% (2015: 64%) of our 
power generation was carbon dioxide-free and 30% (2015: 34%) 
was produced from renewable energy sources  . About 7% (2015: 8%) 
of our heat production was produced from renewable, carbon-free 
energy sources  .
Power generation and heat production by energy source are 
presented in the accompanying tables  . The tables have been 
consolidated in accordance with the boundaries applied in 
financial reporting  . The figures for power generation include also 
production shares in the hydro, wind and nuclear power plants of 
associated companies  . 
New, energy-efficient production capacity 
In Russia, the second new CHP unit at the Chelyabinsk GRES 
power plant was completed in March 2016  . Fuelled by natural gas, its electricity production capacity is 248 MW and heat production 
capacity 174 MW  . The first power plant unit of the same size was 
completed in late 2015  . 
In Russia, the modernisations of the Nyagan GRES power 
plant’s second unit increased production capacity by about 30 MW 
in autumn 2016  . Similar modernisations of the first unit were 
completed in autumn 2015  .
Construction of the new multi-fuel CHP plant in Zabrze, Poland 
continued, and the plant is scheduled for completion in 2018  . 
In Russia and Poland, investments will improve the efficiency of 
electricity and heat production and reduce carbon dioxide and other 
emissions into the environment with relation to produced energy  . 
Refurbishments of hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland 
introduced 9  .5 MW of new, renewable electricity production 
capacity  . Two high-pressure turbines at the Loviisa nuclear power 
plant were replaced during the 2016 annual outage and, together 
with smaller improvements made, increased the electricity capacity 
by 12 MW  . 
The 13-MW district cooling project was started in Tartu, 
Estonia  . 
Power generation by energy source 
in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN3)
TWh 2016 2015 2014
Hydropower 20.7 25.0 22.3
Nuclear power  24.1 22.7 23.8
Natural gas  24.3 24.1 22.5
Coal  2.8 2.9 3.6
Biomass fuels  0.8 0.8 0.9
Waste-derived fuel 0.2 0.1 0.0
Other 1) 0.2 0.3 0.3
Total 73.1 75.9 73.4
1) Wind, solar, peat, otherHeat production by energy source 
in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN3)
TWh 2016 2015 2014
Natural gas  19.7 24.2 26.7
Coal  4.7 5.0 5.1
Biomass fuels  1.9 2.0 2.0
Waste-derived fuel 0.8 0.4 0.3
Heat pumps, electricity  0.3 0.3 0.1
Peat  0.4 0.3 0.3
Fuel oil 0.0 0.1 0.1
Total 27.8 32.2 34.6
Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
30Decided investments in wind power
Wind farm Country Capacity, MWShare of  
ownership, % Commissioned
Blaiken Sweden 247.5 15 2012-2016
Solberg Sweden 75 50 2018 expected
Nygårdsfjellet Norway 32 100 2006, 2011
Ånstadblåheia Norway ca. 50 100 2018 expected
Sørfjord Norway ca. 90 100 2019 expected
Ulyanovsk Russia 35 100 2017 expectedEnergy production from waste
Fortum acquired the Nordic circular economy company Ekokem Corporation in August 2016  . 
The circular economy business is specialised in waste and material treatment, recycling and combustion, 
final disposal solutions, soil remediation and environmental construction services  . 
Fortum’s new circular economy business operates hazardous waste treatment and combustion 
facilities in Finland, Sweden and Denmark  . The waste-to-electricity capacity in Riihimäki, Finland, is 
18 MW and heat production capacity 90 MW, in Kumla, Sweden, 9 MW and 35 MW, respectively, and in 
Nyborg, Denmark, 16 MW and 19 MW  .
More solar energy
Fortum currently has 15 MW of solar capacity in India  . Two solar energy projects were launched in India 
in 2016: the 70-MW Bhadla solar power plant in Rajasthan and the 100-MW Pavagada solar power plant 
in Karnataka  . The projects are expected to be completed in 2017  . In addition to the large-scale solar 
energy plants in India, Fortum offers its customers solar energy kits in the Nordic countries  .
Solar power is proceeding in India
Fortum is targeting a gigawatt-scale wind and solar power portfolio. India is the first 
country we have decided to enter in solar power, as the country offers one of the best 
solar resources and sound government support for the development of the solar sector. 
Fortum's ongoing projects will generate about 370 GWh annually and in total will reduce 
carbon dioxide emissions by 350,000 tonnes. 
The 70-MW project in Bhadla, Rajasthan, is being executed by Tata Power Solar, which 
was selected following Fortum’s supplier pre-selection process. Both a desk review of 
Tata’s practises as well an audit of its ongoing construction site were carried out to see 
how Tata would comply with Fortum’s requirements. After the work was awarded, both 
Tata Power Solar’s and Fortum’s top management participated in person at the project’s 
kick-off meeting in India to emphasise the importance of safety and good working 
conditions for Fortum. 
This project has set an example for good working and living conditions in India: proper 
employee facilities with kitchen and hygiene stations are provided to the construction 
employees as well as drinking water and shelters from the sun and heat during employee 
breaks. The site’s EHS procedures are very robust with good access control and training, 
visual materials and safety talks, as well as supervision and observations with safety walks. More wind power
Fortum invested actively in wind power in 2016  . At the Blaiken wind farm, 22  .5 MW of capacity was 
commissioned, and Fortum's share of ownership was 3  .4 MW  .
Energy production (on our website)
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
31Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
mixture for combustion  . In 2016, bedding-manure mixture was 
collected from about 80 horse stables in southern Finland  . Fortum 
combusts the bedding-manure mixture at the Järvenpää CHP plant, 
and it was delivered also to other energy companies  . 
The Joensuu bio-oil plant produced bio-oil, of which majority 
was used in a heat plant at Joensuu power plant area and at the 
Vermo heat plant in Espoo, Finland  . 
Emissions trading 
Over 88% of carbon dioxide emissions from our energy production 
in Finland, Poland and the Baltic countries is within the sphere of 
the EU’s emissions trading scheme  . We had a total of 45 (2015: 48) 
plants in four member countries within the EU’s emissions trading 
scheme in 2016  . Fortum was granted free emission allowances 
corresponding to 1  .0 (2015: 1  .3) million tonnes in 2016  . Our carbon 
dioxide emissions within the EU’s emissions trading scheme 
were 2  .7 (2015: 2  .1) million tonnes  . So, in terms of the emissions 
allowances, we had a deficit and had to purchase the shortfall of 
emissions allowances from the markets  . 
Fortum’s view is that emissions trading is the most cost-efficient 
way to achieve emissions targets  . In our view, the Emissions 
Trading Scheme (ETS) as a mechanism has functioned as planned, 
and it should be the key means for realising the EU climate targets 
also in the future  . A revision of the EU’s emissions trading directive 
for 2021-2030 was reviewed by the Parliament and the Commission 
in 2016, and the directive is expected to be approved during 2017  .
We also want to promote the establishment of a global carbon 
pricing and carbon market  . Fortum has signed the Carbon Price 
Communiqué, an international business statement for setting 
a price on carbon emissions  . We also participate in several 
international business initiatives promoting the role of business in 
climate change mitigation  . These include the UN Global Compact’s 
Caring for Climate initiative and the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing 
Leadership Coalition initiative  . In Finland, Fortum is a member 
of the Climate Leadership Council  .Climate change mitigation
Our vision – For a cleaner world  – defines our ambition to move 
towards a low-emission energy system and optimal resource 
efficiency  . Our main tools in climate change mitigation are 
increasing renewable energy production, improving energy 
efficiency and providing smart energy solutions for our customers  .
Climate change is a threat and an opportunity
We believe that our know-how in carbon dioxide-free hydro, 
nuclear, wind and solar energy, and in energy-efficient CHP 
production will prove to be a competitive advantage for the 
company  . We expect the concern about climate change to increase 
the demand for low-carbon and energy-efficient energy products 
and solutions  . Our developing circular economy services also 
meet this demand, as the use of non-recyclable waste in energy 
production replaces fossil fuel and reduces the formation of 
greenhouse gases at landfills  . 
Our operations are exposed to physical risks caused by climate 
change, including changes in weather patterns that could alter 
energy demand and, for instance, hydropower production volumes  . 
Higher precipitation and temperatures may affect hydropower 
production, dam safety, and bioenergy supply and availability  . 
In addition to climate change mitigation, we are also adapting our 
operations to the changing climate and taking it into consideration, 
for example, in production planning and in evaluating growth 
projects  . 
Towards low-emissions production
In Europe, we produce carbon dioxide-free electricity with hydro, 
nuclear and wind power and at combined heat and power (CHP) 
plants that utilise biomass, bio liquids and waste-derived fuels  . 
In the EU area, 96% (2015: 97%) of our electricity production was 
carbon-free in 2016  . The rest of the electricity was produced mainly 
with coal  . We produce solar power in India  .
Our electricity production in Russia is based entirely on fossil 
fuels, mainly on natural gas  . Our new plant units in Russia are based on gas turbine technology, which represents the best 
available technology in natural gas combustion  . 62% (2015: 64%) 
of our total electricity production was carbon dioxide-free  . 
The following projects, among others, directly or indirectly 
reducing carbon dioxide emissions were completed in 2016: 
• Refurbishment of Chelyabinsk CHP-3 unit’s gas turbine in Russia 
• Replacement of two high-pressure turbines at Loviisa nuclear 
power plant in Finland
• Refurbishments of hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland 
• Optimisation of energy production and a new thermal energy 
storage at Suomenoja power plant in Finland 
• Replacement of the heavy fuel oil with wood pellets at the 
Kivenlahti heat plant in Espoo, Finland
• Implementation of new district cooling in Tartu, Estonia
We have calculated that these projects will reduce annual carbon 
dioxide emissions by about 48,000 tonnes  . 
Sustainable energy production  section describes the power 
plants under construction and the decided new power plant 
projects  . 
Climate-benign products and services
We offer our customers a range of energy products and services to 
help them improve their energy efficiency and reduce their carbon 
footprint:
• CO 2-free electricity products
• Real-time monitoring and optimisation of electricity consumption 
• Solar panel kits 
• Electric vehicle charging systems
We are expanding our offering also by investing in startups that 
are developing new technologies  . For example, in 2016 we invested 
in Chempolis, a company developing biorefining technology in 
Finland, and Exeger, a company developing innovative solar cell 
solutions in Sweden  . 
Fortum HorsePower  is a service concept in which Fortum 
delivers bedding to horse stables and picks up the bedding-manure Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
32Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Carbon funds
Fortum is a participant in the international Prototype Carbon Fund 
(PCF) climate fund  . In 2016, we received a total of about 10,000 CER 
emission reduction units from this fund  . So far, we have received 
a total of 1,250,000 emission reduction units, and we estimate 
that we will still receive about 145,000 units during the PCF’s 
operating period  .
Fortum’s position on the development of the EU climate policy
Greenhouse gas emissions
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 totalled 23  .6 (2015: 24  .1) 
million tonnes  . Scope 1 emissions were 18  .8 million tonnes, Scope 
2 emissions 0  .1 million tonnes, and Scope 3 emissions 4  .7 million 
tonnes .  
Greenhouse gas emissions are reported on a pro forma basis and 
the figures of the comparison years have not been adjusted because 
of partially insufficient data  . We have estimated that, taking 
the divestment of the Tobolsk power plant into consideration, 
greenhouse gas emissions from continuing operations increased in 
2016 by about 2  .5 million tonnes as a result of the commissioning 
of the Chelyabinsk GRES power plant’s new units, the Meri-Pori 
power plant’s increased condensation power production, and the 
acquisition of Ekokem  .
Direct greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 1
The majority of our greenhouse gas emissions was generated from 
the use of fossil fuels in electricity and heat production  . A small 
amount of emissions is generated from the use of company vehicles 
and leaks related to the natural gas distribution  . 
Our direct greenhouse emissions were 18  .8 (2015: 19  .3) million 
CO 2-equivalent tonnes  . The share of carbon dioxide from our direct 
greenhouse gas emissions was 99%  . The share of direct greenhouse 
gas emissions from our total greenhouse gas emissions was 79%  . 
Of the direct carbon dioxide emissions, 83% (2015: 89%) 
originated from the Russian operations and 10% (2015: 7%) from 
Finland  . Fortum’s direct biogenic carbon dioxide emissions were 
1 .3 (2015: 1 . 3) million tonnes  . The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions covers carbon 
dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), fluorinated 
hydrocarbons (HFCs) and SF 6 . Carbon dioxide emissions as well 
as methane and nitrous oxide emissions have been calculated 
on the basis of plant-specific fuel data  . The amounts of HFC 
compounds and SF 6 are reported on the basis of the amounts of 
gas added to the equipment  . Specific emission factors of gases are 
based on IPCC publications  . 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 2 
Greenhouse gas emissions from the production of electricity 
purchased for our own use were 95,500 (2015: 85,400) tonnes of 
carbon dioxide-equivalent  . Carbon dioxide emissions accounted 
for 99  .5% of this  . The share of Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions of 
our total greenhouse gas emissions was 0  .4% . 
57% of Scope 2 emissions have been estimated on the basis of 
information received from electricity suppliers  . The rest has been estimated on the basis of country-specific breakdowns of electricity 
production because electricity supplier-specific greenhouse gas 
emissions data was not received from Russia in particular  . 
Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 3 
The majority of our Scope 3 emissions are caused by the production 
and transportation of fuels, the purchases of goods and services, 
and investments  . The transportation of customer waste also creates 
greenhouse gas emissions  . Other activities (e  .g . employee travel 
and waste management) account for less than 1%  . 
Our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 were an estimated 
4 .7 (2015: 4  .7) million tonnes  . The share of Scope 3 emissions was 
20 .1% of our total greenhouse gas emissions  . We estimate that all 
our Scope 3 greenhouse gases come from fossil energy sources  . 
We report Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in accordance 
with the requirements of the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Accounting and Reporting standard  . The volumes describing 
Direct carbon dioxide emissions by 
country in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN15)
million t 2016 2015 2014
Finland 2.0 1.3 2.2
Russia 15.5 17.0 16.7
Poland 0.8 0.8 0.8
Other countries  0.3 0.1 0.6
Total 18.6 19.2 20.3Direct greenhouse gas emissions 
in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN15)
Mt CO 2-eq 2016 2015 2014
CO 2 18.6 19.2 20.3
CH 4  0.01 0.01 0.01
N2O 0.17 0.14 0.15
HFCs 0.00 0.00 0.00
Total 18.8 19.3 20.5Indirect greenhouse gas emissions  
(Scope 2) in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN16)
t CO 2-eq 2016 2015 2014
CO 2  95,000 85,003 135,505
CH 4 76 52 57
N2O  375 344 389
Total 95,500 85,400 136,000
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions  
(Scope 3) in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN17)
t CO 2-eq 2016 2015 2014
Fuel procurement 4,347,900 4,557,000 4,800,000
Purchased goods and 
services 233,700 83,000 112,000
Capital goods 142,700 50,000 51,000
Other activities 17,500 18,000 21,000
Total 4,741,800 4,708,000 4,984,000Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
33Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
the scope of the various activities have been obtained from our 
monitoring and reporting system  . 
About 20% (2015: 37%) of the purchases were excluded from the 
purchasing categories defined by Fortum’s Procurement function, 
due to insufficient reporting  . The emissions for these are estimated 
with the average emissions factor of the specified purchasing 
categories  . The specific emission factors used in calculating the 
greenhouse gas emissions are based on different literature sources  . 
Specific carbon dioxide emissions 
Our specific carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1) from total energy 
production were 184 (2015: 181) g/kWh  . The five-year average, 
including 2016, was 188 (2015: 191) g/kWh, which is below the 
target of 200 g/kWh  . 
Our specific carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1) from power 
production in the EU were 28 (2015: 21) g/kWh  . The specific 
carbon dioxide emissions from our power production, measured as 
gCO 2/kWh, are low compared to other European power producers  . 
Our specific emissions in 2015 were about 7% of the 311 g/kWh 
average specific emissions of major European utilities  .
Including our Russian power production, our specific emissions 
in 2016 were 173 (2015: 166) g/kWh  . Our specific emissions in 2015 
were about 54% of the average level of European utilities  . European 
reference data for 2016 is not yet available  .The boundary for electricity production’s specific carbon 
dioxide emissions differs from other environmental reporting  . 
Fortum’s production shares in associated companies are also 
included  . This production is based on hydro, wind and nuclear 
power and doesn’t cause direct carbon dioxide emissions  .
In the calculation of electricity production’s specific emissions, 
CHP plant emissions have been allocated for electricity and 
heat using the efficiency method presented in the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol guidelines, with heat production efficiency of 90% 
and electricity production efficiency of 40%  .
2014 2015 2016 2017g/kWhSpecific carbon dioxide emissions of Fortum’s total 
energy production in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN18)
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0 
 Annual specific emissions
 Specific emission (5-year average)
 Target (5-year average) 
Specific CO 2 emissions of major utilities in Europe, g CO 2/kWh electricity, 2015
1 200
1 000
800
600
400
200
0 
 Average 311 g/kWh
Note: All figures, except Fortum total, include only European generation. In 2016 most of E.ON’s generation was transferred to Uniper.
Fortum’s specific emissions of the power generation in 2016 in the EU were 28 g/kWh and in total 173 g/kWh.Source: PWC, November 2016, Climate Change and Electricity, Fortum
DEI
RWE
Drax
SSE
CEZ
E.ON
Vattenfall
EDP
Enel
Edipower
EnBW
ENGIE
Dong Energy
Iberdrola
Fortum total
PVO
EDF
Verbund
Fortum EU
StatkraftGas Natural 
Fenosa166 21
188 g/kWh
Specific CO 2 emissions, 
5-year average
Target: <200 g/kWh Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
34Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Energy efficiency services for businesses
Fortum’s operation and maintenance services have been improving 
the energy efficiency of our customers’ power plants already for 
decades  . Our energy-efficiency services and expertise also bring 
our customers financial benefits and save the environment  . 
We made advancements to the service in 2016, such as instead of 
an individual power plant, we can examine the development of a 
broader area, such as power and heat plants of a city or a company, 
and the profitability and environmental impacts of investments 
related to them  .
Energy-efficiency services for homes
Energy-efficiency services for businessesImproving energy efficiency
Energy efficiency is a key factor in energy production – from both 
an economic and environmental perspective  . Improving energy 
efficiency at power plants refers to measures we implement to 
increase the efficiency of production processes or reduce the energy 
consumption of plants or equipment  . This enables us to produce 
more electricity or heat for our customers without increasing fuel 
consumption .
The energy efficiency of power plants can be increased through 
investments and technical improvements, preventive maintenance, 
and by training personnel in the optimal operation of the plant and 
in monitoring the plant’s operating economy  . Improving power 
plant availability also increases energy efficiency, as unplanned 
plant start-ups are reduced  .
Energy-efficiency investments
In fuel-based energy production, we aim to utilise the fuel’s energy 
as efficiently as possible  . Our most important means to improve the 
energy efficiency of fuel use is to increase combined heat and power 
(CHP) production  . In CHP production, up to 90% of the energy 
content of the fuels can be utilised  . Separate electricity production’s 
efficiency is about 60% at best  .
In March 2016, we commissioned a second natural gas-powered 
CHP unit at our Chelyabinsk GRES power plant in Russia  . 
Also several new projects have been implemented at the Loviisa 
nuclear power plant after 2012 to increase the efficiency of the plant 
units  . The most recent and most significant was the replacement 
of two high-pressure turbines  . With these replacements and other 
smaller improvements, the Loviisa power plant can produce about 
98 GWh more electrical energy in an average year  . In addition, other projects to improve energy efficiency were 
completed in 2016, among them:
• Refurbishment of Chelyabinsk CHP-3 unit’s gas turbine in 
Russia, 50 GWh
• Refurbishments of hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland, 
30 GWh
• Optimisation of energy production and a new thermal energy 
storage at Suomenoja power plant in Finland, 40 GWh
The energy-efficiency improvement projects are calculated to yield 
an annual energy savings of about 245 GWh  . 
Target within reach
Fortum is participating in the European electricity sector’s Energy 
Wisdom  programme  . We report to the programme on significant 
projects that improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases  . 
Fortum’s target is to achieve an annual energy savings of more than 
1,400 GWh by 2020 compared to 2012  . By the end of 2016, about 
1,372 GWh or 98% of the target set for 2020, had been reached  . 
In 2015, we reported 1,240 GWh for achieved energy savings  . 
The corrected energy savings in 2015 was 1,127 GWh, because 
some of the energy efficiency projects planned for years 2014 and 
2015 in Russia were postponed for implementation at a later date  . 
Energy-efficiency services for homes 
Fortum has introduced energy-efficiency services for private 
customers in Finland and Sweden  . Fortum’s customers can, for 
instance, control and optimise the heating of their homes based 
on electricity price and demand or they can monitor energy 
consumption with an in-home display  . 
1,372 GWh/a
Energy efficiency improvement
Target: >1,400 GWh/a by 2020Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
35Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Energy intensity 
In 2016, our fuel consumption in electricity and heat production was 111 (2015: 116) TWh, or 
398 (2015: 417) PJ  . Additionally, we acquired 460 (2015: 398) GWh of electricity from external electricity 
suppliers  . With these energy resources, we produced 35,970 GWh of electricity, 27 ,185 GWh of heat, 
20 GWh of cooling, and 5 GWh of bio-oil  . The total energy consumption, calculated as the difference 
between the procured energy resources and net production, was 47 ,900 GWh, or 172 (2015: 178) PJ  . 
In combustion-based energy production, we aim to utilise the fuel as efficiently as possible  . In 2016, 
our average fuel use efficiency was 64% (2015: 64%)  . The efficiency has been calculated by dividing 
the electricity and heat energy produced with the fuel by the energy content of the fuel used in the 
production .  
The energy intensity of our own production was 1  .40 (2015: 1  .33) . The intensity figure has been 
calculated by dividing the amount of used energy resources by the total net production of energy 
products, including hydropower, wind power and solar power  . 
Fuel consumption
The most significant fuel was natural gas, which accounted for 62% (2015: 65%) of the total fuel 
consumption  . The next highest fuel use was uranium 23% (2015: 22%) and coal 10% (2015: 9%)  . 
Russia’s share of our total fuel use was about 66%  . Russia accounted for 98% of our use of natural gas 
and 51% of our use of coal  .
Biomass and bioliquids accounted for 2  .6% (2015: 2  .7%) of our total fuel consumption and waste-
derived fuels accounted for 1  .5% (2015: 0  .6%)  . The share of waste-derived fuels grew due to the 
acquisition of Ekokem  . In the implementation of our new strategy, we will maximise the added value 
from waste and biomass  . 
The energy-specific fuel consumption has been calculated based on the usage volumes and fuel-
specific caloric values measured at the power plants  . Uranium consumption has been calculated as the 
thermal heat generation in the reactors  .
Our fuelsFuel use in 2014–2016, energy (GRI G4-EN3)
petajoules 2016 2015 2014
Natural gas 247.6 272.0 276.1
Nuclear fuel 91.1 90.5 81.6
Coal  40.6 38.8 46.8
Waste-derived fuel, fossil 3.6 1.0 0.8
Peat 1.8 1.4 1.6
Other fossil 0.6 0.8 0.6
Non-renewable fuels total 385.4 404.4 407.5
Biomass fuels 10.2 11.4 12.5
Waste-derived fuel, renewable 2.5 1.7 1.5
Renewable fuels total 12.7 13.1 14.0
Fuels total 398.1 417.5 422.0
Fuel use in 2014–2016, mass/volume (GRI G4-EN1)
 2016 2015 2014
Non-renewable fuels    
Natural gas, million m36,710 8,023 8,148
Coal, 1,000 t 2,208 2,062 2,539
Waste-derived fuel, fossil, 1,000 t 344 97 87
Peat, 1,000 t 178 135 161
Fuel oil, 1,000 t 21 20 13
Nuclear fuel, t 20 22 23
Renewable fuels    
Biomass fuels, 1,000 t 1,041 1,126 1,264
Waste-derived fuel, renewable, 1,000 t 225 198 177
Fuel use by country in 2016 (GRI G4-EN1)
 Finland Russia Poland EstoniaOther 
countries Total
Natural gas, million m399 6,588 4 6 12 6,710 
Coal, 1,000 t 474 1,364  370  2,208 
Biomass fuels, 1,000 t 277   139 439 186 1,041 
Waste-derived fuel, 1,000 t 213    356 569 
Peat, 1,000 t 106   72 178
Fuel oil, 1,000 t 10  7   4 21 
Nuclear fuel, t 20    20 Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
36Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Contaminated soil: 99 ktNon-hazardous waste: 396 kt  Received wasteHazardous waste: 239 kt SocietyRecovery of materials: 66 kt (ash, plastic, oil, metal, others)Energy recovery: 569 kt Final disposal: 191 kt Circular economy 
Climate change, urbanisation, population growth, and limited natural resources are examples 
of megatrends shaping the world  . These megatrends are pushing us to maximise the efficient use of 
resources, such as waste and biomass  . Fortum has long experience in the recycling and reuse of waste 
Received and processed waste from our customers in 2016
Received and processed waste from our customers in 2016 1)
Finland Sweden Denmark Lithuania Total
Received waste and by-products (t)
Non-hazardous waste 123,200 16,100 257,000 396,300
Hazardous waste 54,700 38,400 145,900 239,000
Contaminated soil 52,800 46,500 99,400
Recovery and disposal (t)
Recovery of materials 46,800 7,700 8,900 2,500 65,900
Energy recovery (amount of waste) 213,200 35,200 63,800 257,000 569,200
Final disposal 92,900 10,100 7,000 81,100 191,200
1) Ekokem operations in Finland, Sweden and Denmark are included in all figures from 1 September 2016. and by-products from power and heat production  . As a part of our new strategy, we have expanded our 
business portfolio to include also circular economy services for our customers  . For us, the circular 
economy means that materials are recycled as much as possible and hazardous substances are removed 
from circulation .
In August 2016, we acquired the Nordic circular economy company Ekokem Corporation, which 
provides environmental management and material efficiency services  . In December 2016, we also 
acquired the Swedish waste management company Turebergs Recycling AB, which has long experience 
in the treatment and recycling of incinerated bottom ash from waste-to-energy plants  . 
Waste management services
Efficient and reliable waste management is important in a society based on sustainability  . Fortum’s aim 
is to promote the transition towards a more extensive circular economy  . We offer waste management 
services for customers in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Lithuania  .
In 2016, we received a total of 396,300 tonnes of non-hazardous waste and 239,000 tonnes of hazardous 
waste from our customers  . As much of the waste stream as possible is recycled, recovered or reused  . Waste 
that is unsuitable for recycling or reuse as a material is incinerated in waste-to-energy plants  . 
For additional information about our energy production, see the section Sustainable energy 
production  .
Recovery of materials
Various types of waste can be reused as raw materials  . In 2016, of the waste and by-products received 
from our customers, we recovered as materials about 65,900 tonnes; ash accounted for 28,000 tonnes of 
that amount and processed new raw materials and products 17 ,700 tonnes  . In addition, Fortum recycled 
about 244,800 tonnes of materials originating from its own energy production plants  .Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
37Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
We are continuously developing activities that increase 
the proportion of waste materials kept in circulation:
• We refine new plastic out of waste plastic received from 
customers  . In October 2016, we launched CIRCO, our recycled 
plastic product family  .
• We pick up and process our customers’ waste oils to be refined 
and reused as industrial lubricants
• We recycle scrap metals generated in the maintenance activities 
of our power plants and other facilities  . We also recover and 
separate metals from customers’ municipal waste and slag  . 
• We process ash, sand, sludge, dredging masses and slurries 
from energy production and other industries for reuse in various 
types of environmental construction and earthwork  .The Circular Economy Village 
In June 2016, the Circular Economy Village was 
inaugurated in Riihimäki, Finland. The Circular 
Economy Village is a refinery complex developed by 
Ekokem, which Fortum acquired in 2016. 
In the village, municipal waste is processed through 
the Eco Refinery, an automated sorting plant, the 
Plastic Refinery, the first in Finland to produce recycled 
plastic, and the Bio Refinery, which produces biogas 
and is owned by our partner Gasum. The concept of 
the Circular Economy Village is unique, both nationally 
and internationally.
Once fully operational, the Eco Refinery of the 
Circular Economy Village will annually receive around 
100,000 tonnes of municipal waste, from which the 
refinery will separate biowaste (about 30% of the 
waste), plastic (4%), metal (3%) and recovered fuel 
suitable for industrial use (50%). The remaining amount 
is reject, which is not suitable for recovery. 
The biowaste will be turned into biogas and fertilisers, 
and the plastic and metal into recycled raw material for 
industry. The reject will be used to generate electricity 
and district heat in our waste-to-energy plants in 
Riihimäki.
The Circular Economy Village is a pioneer in future 
waste management. The principle is that waste should 
be utilized as a raw material when it is economically 
viable. The strict targets of the Circular Economy 
Package adopted by the European Commission will 
not be achieved without recycling solutions like these.Hazardous waste treatment
We take hazardous waste out of circulation in a sustainable manner 
by offering solutions to treat hazardous waste while also producing 
clean energy and ensuring a safe final disposal  . High-temperature 
incineration ensures the best available solution for the destruction 
of unwanted substances  . 
We have three high-temperature incineration plants in the 
Nordics  . These plants for hazardous waste are located in Riihimäki, 
Finland; Kumla, Sweden; and Nyborg, Denmark  . At these facilities, 
we incinerated 114,200 tonnes of hazardous waste and 198,000 of 
non-hazardous waste in 2016, producing electricity and district 
heating for the surrounding areas  .
Contaminated soil
In 2016, we received about 99,400 tonnes of contaminated soil 
from our customers  . We directed metal, rocks, concrete and 
wood, sieved from the soil for reuse as raw materials  . Soil that is 
suitable for construction is used at our own construction sites and 
industrial waste reception centres  . In addition, we treated about 
161,000 tonnes of contaminated soil at customer sites  .
Sustainable energy production
Waste and by-products (of own energy production plants)
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
38Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Biodiversity  
The degradation of biodiversity is one of the biggest environmental 
problems globally  . We need to know our impacts and dependencies 
on biodiversity and ecosystem services to be able to assess the 
related risks and opportunities  . 
Our impacts on biodiversity 
Fortum’s impacts on biodiversity are primarily related to its 
hydropower production operations in Finland and Sweden  . 
Hydropower construction and the related water regulation alter 
the conditions in water systems and thus impact the diversity 
of the aquatic habitat and, in particular, the fish population  . 
Emissions from fossil fuel-based energy production may decrease 
local biodiversity, especially in Russia  . In addition, our fuel 
procurement may have a negative impact on biodiversity  . However, 
our production of CO 2-free energy replaces fossil fuel-based energy 
production and thus mitigates climate change, which is globally 
one of the greatest threats to biodiversity  .
Fortum’s biodiversity engagement
Fortum’s Biodiversity guidelines set the principles for taking 
biodiversity into consideration and for managing the biodiversity 
impacts of the company’s operations  . Since 2014, we have 
participated in the activities of the Finnish Business & Society’s 
(FiBS) Business and Biodiversity programme  .
Sustainable use of biomass fuels has been actively debated in 
recent years  . Fortum’s position is that EU-wide, harmonised and 
binding sustainability criteria for all bioenergy is needed  . The 
EU Commission’s proposal to extend the existing sustainability 
criteria for bioliquids to cover also solid biomass and biogas is 
in line with Fortum’s position  . The proposal is included in the 
EU Commission’s legislative “Smart and Clean Energy Package” 
published on 30 November 2016  .salmon spawners to the reproduction areas at tributaries, 
we supported the salmon and sea trout population with releases of 
young fish, and we followed up the migratory fish population  . We 
also started construction of a permanent structure for trapping fish 
by the Montta hydropower plant in order to transport them to the 
reproduction areas upstream  .
Restoring a wetland 
In the River Dalälven area in Sweden, we took part in financing the 
restoration of a rich wetland, Ambrick, which is partly on Fortum’s 
property  . The area is 23 hectares  . The area was opened up by 
clearing small trees and bushes, and the restoration will continue 
in 2017  . The area hosts different kinds of endangered species of 
plants, like orchids, and birds, like curlew  . 
Biomass fuels actions
Existing forest certification schemes will continue to play a strong 
role in verifying sustainability of woody biomass  . We annually 
collect data on the volume of certified wood-based biomass 
fuel used in our power plants in Finland, Sweden, Poland and 
the Baltics  . Certified wood-based biomass fuel originates from 
sustainably managed forests in which special attention is paid to 
biodiversity  . In 2017 , Fortum will assess the possibility to obtain 
a Chain of Custody certificate for its wood-based biomass fuel 
purchasing .  
Environmental impacts of hydropower production
 Bra Miljöval eco-labelled energy projects (in Swedish)Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal initiative and uses the 
Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the 
coal supply chain  . Biodiversity aspects related to coal mining are 
covered in Bettercoal assessments  .
We aim to minimise our negative impact on biodiversity, and 
we assess the impacts of our new projects  . We offset and reduce the 
impacts of hydropower production on biodiversity by stocking and 
over-dam transferring fish and through voluntary environmental 
projects  . In Sweden, we carry out biodiversity-related projects with 
the financing from our eco-labelled (Bra Miljöval) electricity  .
Habitat restoration and other projects 
Most of our habitat restorations and other projects improving 
biodiversity are related to hydropower production  . The listing and 
additional information of hydropower-related projects supporting 
biodiversity is available on our website  .
Restoring river stretches by tearing down dams
In Sweden, we have mapped out the old dams that have low value 
for hydropower production, but have environmental impacts 
on riverine ecosystems  . The aim is to restore habitats and river 
continuum in places with benefits for biodiversity  . In 2016, two 
such projects were initiated  . Our application to tear down the 
Acksjön dam in a tributary of the River Klarälven is pending in 
environmental court  . Our application for the Kolsjön dam removal 
is under preparation .
Enhancing natural reproduction 
of migratory fish populations
In Finland, a migratory fish project continued in 2016 in 
cooperation with local stakeholders at River Oulujoki  . Fortum has 
hydropower production on the River Oulujoki  . We transported Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
39Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Emissions into air 
Fortum’s activities cause various emissions into air  . Greenhouse 
gases that accelerate global climate change are generated primarily 
from the use of fossil fuels and the combustion of waste of a fossil 
origin  . Possible gas leaks during the transport of liquid natural gas 
and the piping of natural gas also impact climate change  .
Flue-gas emissions causing local environmental and health 
effects are generated from all incineration  . Nitrogen oxides are 
generated from the nitrogen contained in the fuel and in the 
combustion air  . Sulphur dioxide, in turn, is generated from the 
sulphur that is an impurity in, e  .g ., coal, peat and oil  . Particle 
emissions are fine-grained ash generated primarily in the 
combustion of solid fuels and waste  . Depending on the origin of 
the fuel and waste, the particles contain various heavy metals  .
World-class air pollution control 
It is possible to decrease nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and 
particle emissions through fuel selections and various flue-gas 
cleaning technologies  . Fortum has world-class know-how in 
combustion technology, and we have delivered combustion 
technology solutions to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions to many 
other power utilities  . During 2016 we supplied burner projects to 
Estonian, Swedish, Romanian and Polish customers  . 
Our Meri-Pori and Suomenoja power plants are equipped with 
a desulphurisation plant  . The scrubber and bag filter that we are 
constructing for the new Zabrze CHP plant in Poland will reduce 
emissions into air  . 
Our plants incinerating hazardous waste are located in 
Riihimäki Finland, Kumla Sweden, and Nyborg Denmark, and 
are equipped with efficient flue-gas cleaning systems  . Harmful because three boilers at the Argayash power plant were equipped 
with a scrubber to reduce flue-gas emissions  .
The reporting of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and 
particle emissions from our European power plants is based on 
continuous measurement  . Other flue-gas emissions data is based 
on discontinuous measurements or are calculated using fuel 
consumption data and specific emission factors  . Specific emission 
factors are based on measurements taken at regular intervals, on 
information from the equipment supplier, or on regulatory norms  . 
We are reporting heavy metals more extensively for 2016, due to 
the new waste incineration business  . Carbon dioxide emissions are 
reported in the section Greenhouse gas emissionsemissions to air are minimised with various filters and scrubbers 
selected on the basis of the waste to be incinerated  . 
Stricter standards 
The EU has set very strict limits for flue-gas emissions; meeting 
the requirements necessitates the use of best available technology 
(BAT)  . Our nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and particle emissions 
have, in fact, decreased significantly in our European production 
over the past decades  . Emissions limits became even stricter when 
the Industrial Emissions Directive came into force in 2016  . 
All Fortum power plants operate in compliance with the terms 
of their environmental permits, and the plants meet the new 
emissions requirements, for the most part  . Investments in flue-gas 
cleaning processes and systems will be made in upcoming years at 
the Suomenoja power plant in Finland and the Rejtana heat plant in 
Poland .  
At Russian power plants, emissions are limited in accordance 
with Russian legislation  . The new legislation currently being 
drafted in Russia will bring stricter emissions standards in the 
future .  
Flue-gas emissions 
Our sulphur dioxide (SO 2) emissions were 22,500 (2015: 19,900) t, 
nitrogen oxide (NO x) emissions 26,000 (2015: 26,800) t and particle 
emissions 16,800 (17 ,800) t  . 81% (2015: 77%) of sulphur dioxide, 
82% (2015: 84%) of nitrogen oxide and 98% (2015: 98%) of particle 
emissions originated from Russian power plants  . In 2016, the most 
significant source of particle emissions, 9,100 (2015: 12,700) t, was 
the Argayash power plant in Russia  . Particle emissions decreased, Flue-gas emissions in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN21)
 2016 2015 2014
SO 2 , t 22,500 19,900 20,400
NO x, t 26,000 26,800 28,700
Particles, t 16,800 17,800 21,300
HCl, t 1,180   
Lead, kg 4,140
Mercury, kg 151 105 126
Cadmium, kg 116
Dioxins, mg  504   Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
40Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Water use 
Fortum uses large volumes of water at various types of power plants 
and in district heat networks  . In most cases, our power plants do 
not consume water, but the water is discharged back to the same 
water system from where it was withdrawn  . The properties of 
the water may change in the process, but the volume of the water 
generally remains unchanged  . In some cases, water is transferred 
to another recipient, e  .g . through evaporation into the air from 
cooling towers, leaks into the ground from district heat piping, or 
through the discharge of wastewater to a municipal sewage system  . 
Hydropower production is a special case of water use  . Water 
flowing in a river is conducted through a turbine to generate 
electricity  . No water is consumed nor are the properties of the 
water altered in the process  . However, the water system is often 
regulated for hydropower production, and the regulation changes 
the water flow and level patterns compared to their natural state  . 
Fortum does not report water flows in rivers as water use related to 
hydropower production .  
Cooling water 
Condensing power production requires large volumes of cooling 
water  . Cooling water accounts over 90% of Fortum’s total water 
withdrawal annually  . 
Fortum’s condensing power plants in Finland, the Loviisa 
nuclear power plant and the Meri-Pori power plant, are located 
in coastal areas and use direct seawater cooling  . No water is 
consumed in the process and the water withdrawn is discharged 
back into the sea  . The only change is an approximately 10 °C 
increase in the temperature of the cooling water  . 
Condensing power is occasionally produced also at our CHP 
plants  . In most cases, the cooling water is withdrawn from a local Water withdrawal 
The majority of Fortum’s power and heat production capacity is 
located in Finland, Sweden, Russia and Poland  . Our thermal power 
plants and hydropower plants are not located in a water critical area 
in any of our operating countries  . The Baltic Sea and local fresh 
water systems are the most important water sources for our plants  . 
Municipal tap water is used mainly at CHP plants in major cities  . In 
some cases, water is acquired from a near-by industrial facility of 
another company  .
Water is used to clean solar panels at our Indian solar power 
plants  . Even though the water volumes are relatively small, 
alternative water sources and purification methods are being 
explored in India  .
We withdrew a total of 2,322 (2015: 2,138) million m3 of water in 
2016  . Seawater accounted for about 66% of this amount  . 
Of the water we withdrew, we used the majority, 2,228 
(2015: 2,060) million m3, as cooling water  . The Loviisa nuclear 
power plant withdrew from and discharged to the sea 1,339 million 
m3 of cooling water  .water system  . In Russia and Poland, cooling towers are used, 
so some of the cooling water evaporates into the atmosphere  .
District heating network 
Fortum is a major supplier of district heating in Finland, Russia, 
Poland and the Baltic countries  . Fortum has a total of about 
2,800 kilometres of district heat pipes in these countries  . Water is 
used as the heat transfer media in the district heat networks  . Some 
water is lost through leaks that occur in the pipes, so occasionally 
water must be added to the district heating network  .
Process water and other water uses 
A thermal power plant needs water in the water-steam cycle when 
electricity is generated with a steam turbine  . Because of leaks in 
the pipes, occasionally water must be added to the water-steam 
cycle  . Water is also needed in some auxiliary processes, for example 
in flue-gas desulphurisation with wet scrubber technology, 
and in liquid radioactive waste handling and storage at nuclear 
power plants  .
Water withdrawal in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN8)
million m32016 2015 2014
Seawater 1,533 1,487 1,573
Fresh surface water 787 643 602
Tap water 2 4 6
Other source  0.4 5 6
Total  2,322 2,138 2,186Water use in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN8)
million m32016 2015 2014
Cooling water 2,228 2,060 2,094
Process and auxiliary water 82 73* 77*
Make-up water for district heat 
networks 12 14 15
Water recycling  13 12 14
* Figures revised for reporting in 2015.Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
41Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
The reported water withdrawal and water use volumes are based 
on measurements and on calculations of water consumption .  
Wastewater 
Wastewater generated at our power plants is either treated at the 
power plants’ own wastewater treatment plant and discharged into 
a water system or it is piped to a municipal wastewater system for 
further processing  . In Russia, the wet method is used to pump ash 
from power plants into ash ponds  . Part of the water from the ponds 
is recycled back to the power plant and part is released into a water 
system after sedimentation  . 
Wastewater contains solids and nutrients, like nitrogen, 
phosphor, and heavy metals  . Wastewater effluents can impact local 
water quality as well as the nutrient and oxygen balance of the water 
system .
Our plants generated a total of 46 (2015: 34) million m3 of 
wastewater, of which 97% was released into the environment after 
being treated and 3% was piped to municipal wastewater treatment 
plants .  
Wastewater emissions by recipient 
in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN22)
million m32016 2015 2014
Sea  22.2 9.3 9.0
Fresh water system  22.8 22.9 22.4
Municipal sewage  1.3 1.3 1.2
Other recipient 0.1 0.5 0.5
Total  46.4 34.0 33.1About 0  .9 (2015: 1  .2) tonnes of oil was released into water 
systems with wastewater  . In addition, 0  .63 tonnes of oil was 
released into rivers from hydropower plants  . Hydropower plant 
reporting was further defined in 2016  . 
The thermal load discharged into water systems with cooling 
water was 17 (2015: 17) TWh  . The Loviisa nuclear power plant’s 
share of this was 16 TWh  . Temperature measurements indicate 
that the cooling water has increased the temperature of surface 
water by 1–2 °C within a 1-2 kilometre radius from the discharge 
point .  The reported wastewater is based on measurements and 
calculations  . 
NURES products for purifying radioactive waters
Initially developed for the needs of the Loviisa nuclear power plant, 
the NURES products are a unique solution for purifying radioactive 
waters  . A selective ion exchange material purifies liquid waste more 
efficiently than any other alternative on the market  . In 2016, we 
continued NURES deliveries to our customers around the world, 
including Finland, Japan, North America and Great Britain  .
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
42Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Waste and by-products 
Ash is a by-product of the use of fuels, and gypsum and other 
desulphurisation products are by-products of flue-gas 
desulphurisation  . Ash and desulphurisation products account 
for a more than 90% share, on average, of the by-products and 
waste from our energy production  . 
Power plant maintenance generates scrap metal and other 
conventional industrial waste and, to a smaller extent, waste oil and 
other hazardous waste  . We aim to recycle by-products and waste, 
whenever possible  . The waste management service providers we use 
are properly licensed and reliable waste management companies  . 
In addition to conventional industrial waste, the Loviisa nuclear 
power plant also generates radioactive waste, which we treat 
in accordance with the requirements of Finnish nuclear energy 
legislation  . The volume of radioactive waste generated is small, but 
special solutions are needed in their treatment and final disposal  . 
The total volume of by-products and waste generated at Fortum’s 
power and heat plants in 2016 was about 735,000 (2015: 601,000) 
tonnes  . Of this volume, 37% was recycled or reused  . 
Ash and gypsum 
Ash is created in the combustion of all solid fuels  . Over half of 
the ash from our plants operating in Europe is utilised as a raw 
material, e  .g . for the construction industry, road construction and 
soil improvement, and as backfill  . Ash from the power plants in 
Russia is stored in ash basins, because there is no demand for wet 
ash sludge in Russia  . 
Coal-fired power plants generate either a wet or semi-dry 
desulphurisation by-product  . Gypsum created as a by-product 
in the wet desulphurisation process at the Meri-Pori power 
plant in Finland is suitable for use as raw material for the 
construction industry, and in 2016 all the gypsum was utilised  . 
The desulphurisation product created at the Suomenoja power plant 
is not suitable for utilisation  . 
In 2016, about 695,000 (2015: 570,000) tonnes of ash, 8,500 
(2015: 2,300) tonnes of gypsum, and 12,700 (2015: 8,800) tonnes of other desulphurisation product were generated  . The growth in 
volumes of ash and gypsum was a result of increased coal use in 
Finland and Russia  . About 52% of the ash was generated at Russian 
plants, 19% in Finland and 12% in Poland  . The ash recycling rate was 
37% (2015: 33%) and the gypsum recycling rate 100% (2015: 100%)  . 
Any remaining by-products that cannot be utilised are 
transported to the appropriate final disposal areas for landfilling  . 
In 2016, about 453,000 (2015: 390,000) tonnes of by-products were 
transported for landfilling, or in Russia for ash basins  .
The reported volumes of ash and gypsum from our European 
power plants are based on the weighing of the truckloads  . Ash 
volumes at our Russian power plants are calculated on the basis of 
the ash content of the coal  . 
Radioactive waste
At the Loviisa nuclear power plant, low-level radioactive maintenance 
waste and intermediate-level radioactive waste are stored in 
Loviisa’s final repository  . In 2016, 13  .9 (2015: 10  .5) tonnes of low-
level radioactive waste went into final disposal  . Intermediate-level 
radioactive liquid is generated mainly from spent ion exchange resins 
and wastewater from the controlled area  . Liquid waste is processed 
to solid form before final disposal  . In 2016, a new solidification plant 
for liquid radioactive waste started operation  .
High-level spent nuclear fuel is stored in interim storage at the 
Loviisa power plant site  . In 2016, 19  .6 (2015: 21  .8) tonnes of spent 
nuclear fuel was removed from Loviisa power plant’s reactors  . 2 .5 (2015: 2  .7) g/MWh of spent fuel was generated per produced 
energy unit  . Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima have established 
Posiva Oy to handle the technical implementation of the final 
disposal of the spent fuel, and final disposal is scheduled to begin 
at Olkiluoto in Eurajoki in the first half of the 2020s  . 
Other waste
Other, conventional waste generated during the operation and 
maintenance of power and heat plants is sorted, and waste that can 
be recycled, such as metal, is sent for further processing  . Hazardous 
waste is delivered to licensed hazardous waste treatment facilities  . 
Our operations in power and heat plants generated a total of 
31,900 (2015: 27 ,200) tonnes of other waste, approximately 2,700 
(2015: 1,700) tonnes of which was hazardous waste  . In addition, 
about 20 tonnes of contaminated soil was removed  . The reported 
volumes of other waste are based mainly on the information 
provided by the waste management companies  . 
Waste reception, recycling and reuse
Fortum’s new circular economy business receives, processes and 
reuses customer waste for material recycling and energy production 
in Finland, Sweden and Denmark  . Waste recycling services are 
reviewed in more detail in the section Circular economy  .
Loviisa power plant’s waste management
Final disposal of spent nuclear fuel
Waste handling in power and heat 
plants in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN23)
tonnes 2016 2015 2014
Recycling and recovery 8,300 8,000 7,700
Landfill 20,900 17,400 17,500
Hazardous waste recovery 400 90 100
Hazardous waste disposal 2,300 1,700 2,400
Total  31,900 27,200 27,700Ash and gypsum handling  
in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-EN23)
tonnes 2016 2015 2014
Ash utilisation 255,000 189,000 226,000
Ash disposal 440,000 381,000 434,000
Gypsum utilisation 8,500 2,300 9,800
Gypsum disposal 0 0 0Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
43Improving 
energy efficiencyClimate change 
mitigationWater 
useEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWaste and 
by-productsSustainable 
energy productionEmissions 
into air BiodiversityCircular 
economy
Environmental non-compliances and incidents
At the Group level, we monitor the number of major EHS incidents, 
which, in part, reflects the quality of environmental management  . 
In 2016, there were 22 (2015: 18) major EHS incidents  . 12 of these 
were significant environmental incidents, including spills of over 
100 litres into the environment, significant environmental permit 
violations, and other environmental non-compliances having a 
significant impact on environment  . 
Spills and other significant 
environmental non-compliances 
In 2016, there was one (2015: 2) spill of more than 100 litres into 
the environment  . The spill occurred in autumn 2016  . The incident 
involved a spill of hydraulic oil into the River Klarälven at a 
hydropower plant in Sweden  . The incident did not have significant 
environmental impacts  . 
Significant environmental permit violations 
There were 11 (2015: 14) environmental permit violations in 2016, 
and 9 of them occurred in Russia  . Eight permit violations at the 
Russian power plants involved exceeding the wastewater emission 
limits  . One permit violation involved exceeding the annual licence 
of heavy oil at the Tyumen power plant in Russia  . At the waste 
combustion plant in Denmark, there was one wastewater discharge 
limit violation and one environmental permit violation related to 
the storage of waste  . 
Environmental enquiries and grievances
Power plants receive environmental enquiries and other contacts 
every year, and they are mainly handled locally  . The aim is to 
communicate in advance about upcoming measures with possible 
environmental impacts e  .g . through local media and at public events  . 
Fortum’s website also has a grievance channel that our 
stakeholders can use to report problems possibly caused by our 
operations  . No new environment-related grievances were reported 
to us through this channel in 2016  . Fines
In 2016, Fortum paid fines totalling RUB 1  .782 million 
(EUR 24,120) for permit violations involving exceeding the 
wastewater emission limits and RUB 136,000 (EUR 1,840) for 
permit violations involving heavy oil use in Russia  . 
Business ethics and compliance 
Occupational and operational safety22
Major EHS incidents
Target: ≤23
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
44Social responsibility 
Fortum impacts the daily lives of millions of people 
through its businesses. Fortum’s social responsibility 
emphasises operational and occupational safety, 
employee wellbeing, the secure supply of electricity 
and heat, creating sustainable solutions for cities, as 
well as ethical business operations and compliance 
with regulations. We engage in an active dialogue with 
different stakeholder groups and we strive to find a 
balance between their various expectations. 
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
45Social impacts
We strive to be a safe workplace for our employees  . We promote operational and occupational safety and 
wellbeing in the work community, which are prerequisites for efficient and interruption-free production  . 
Our innovations and the secure supply of power and heat support the development of society and 
increase wellbeing  . We want to offer sustainable city solutions that promote a circular economy  . 
Ethical business practices and respecting internationally recognised human rights are the foundation 
of Fortum’s Code of Conduct  . Fortum’s sustainability approach also includes being a good corporate 
citizen and taking care of the surrounding communities  . We want to support responsible operations in 
Fortum’s supply chain and in society  . 
Key figures for social responsibility
Our key figures for social responsibility are presented in the table and graphs  . 
Business ethics and complianceKey figures for social responsibility 
 2016 2015 2014
CHP plant energy availability, % 97.4 96.4 94.7
Average number of employees 7,994 8,009 8,821
Number of employees, 31 December 8,108 7,835 8,592
Departure turnover, % 13.0 8.6 8.1
Female employees, % 29 29 28
Females in management, % 25 33 33
Health care expenditure, EUR/person 1)460 509 542
Sickness absence rate, % 2.3* 2.4 2.4
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 2), Fortum’s personnel 1.9 1.6 2.0
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), Fortum’s personnel 1.0 1.1 1.0
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), contractors 3.0 2.7 3.2
Serious 4) occupational accidents 13 14** 16
Fatalities 0 0 3
OHSAS 18001-certified operations in power and heat 
production, % of sales 99.9 99.9 75
Supplier audits, number 13 9 14
Support for society, EUR million 3.6 3.6 3.3
1) Only in Finland, before the share reimbursed by Kela (The Social Insurance Institution of Finland)
2) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency per million working hours
3) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency per million working hours
4) Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability or at least 30 days of absence
* The figure has become more defined from the one presented in the interim report and the operating and financial review (2.4%).
** The figure revised for reporting 2015. 
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF),  
Fortum’s personnel
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0 
2014 2015 2016 2017
 TRIF
 TargetPersonnel by country, 31 December 2016
 Russia, 3,745
 Finland, 2,029
 Poland, 894
 Sweden, 724
 Estonia, 201
 Other countries, 515Fortum’s support to society in 2016 by target, % 
 Environment, 35
 Culture, 28
 Children and youth, 20
 Sports, 11
 Other, 7Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
46Security of supply
An uninterrupted and reliable energy supply is critical for society to function  . With planned preventive 
maintenance and condition monitoring, we ensure that our power plants operate reliably to produce the 
electricity and heat customers need  . 
Power plant availability
We measure the availability of our CHP and hydropower plants with an energy availability indicator  . 
Energy availability is calculated by dividing the power plant’s actual production in the period under 
review by the theoretical maximum production  . Planned maintenance outages are not included in the 
calculation  . If the outage at a CHP plant is longer than planned, it is considered an interruption, which 
decreases the energy availability  . The energy availability of our CHP plants in 2016 was, on average, 
97 .4% (2015: 96  .4%); the target was 95%  . 
For hydropower plants, outages due to a failure and unplanned or prolonged outages decrease the 
availability factor only if they lead to spillage  . The energy availability of our hydropower plants was 98  .7% 
(2015: 99 . 2%)  . 
The load factor describing the availability of the Loviisa nuclear power plant is among the highest in 
the world for VVER–440 type nuclear power plants  . The Loviisa nuclear power plant’s load factor in 2016 
was 91  .1% (2015: 92  .9%)  .
Interruptions in gas and heat distribution 
In spring 2016 Fortum acquired DUON, a company specialising in electricity and gas distribution  . 
Through this acquisition, we own about 480 km of gas distribution networks and 20 regasification 
stations in Poland  . 
Fortum also has about 2,800 km of district heating networks in Finland, Russia, Poland and the Baltic 
countries  . The aim is to keep interruptions in gas and district heat distribution as short as possible by 
carrying out planned and preventive refurbishment and maintenance activities  . 
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
47Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Employees
We are a significant employer in the regions where we have 
operations  . We strive to be a responsible employer that invests 
in the development and wellbeing of personnel  . 
In 2016, an average of 7 ,994 (2015: 8,009) employees worked 
at Fortum  . The highest number of employees was in Russia, 
3,814 (2015: 4,180) on average  . The average and the year-end total 
personnel figures include 332 employees who joined Fortum in 2016 
mainly through corporate acquisitions, but are not included in the 
other figures and tables presented in this report  . These individuals 
include the civil contractors working in the Polish DUON Group 
and the entire personnel of the Swedish Info24 company  . 
The number of Fortum’s permanent employees on 31 December 
2016 was 7 ,473 (2015: 7 ,522), i  .e . 96 .1% (2015: 96  .0%) of the 
personnel  . Of these, 7 ,362 (2015: 7 ,395) were full-time employees 
and 111 (2015: 127) were part-time employees  . 
During the year 476 (2015: 375) new employees joined Fortum, 
and 968 (2015: 650) employment relationships were terminated, 
805 of which by the employer  . The number of employment 
relationships terminated due to production and financial reasons 
was 120  . Departure turnover in 2016 was 13  .0% (2015: 8  .6%)  . 
Voluntary departure turnover was 5  .6% . 
With the acquisition of Ekokem and DUON, 755 new 
employees joined Fortum  . Fortum signed a partnership agreement 
on the operation and maintenance of power plants and district 
heating networks with Maintpartner in Finland and Poland  . 
Under the agreement, 341 individuals transferred as existing 
employees from Fortum to Maintpartner  . Other acquisitions and 
outsourcings decreased the number of personnel by a total of 
248 (2015: 184) people  . 
Contractor employees worked at Fortum sites for a total of 
approximately 1,113,000 (2015: 1,327 ,000) days during the year  . 
The figure is based on contractors’ hourly logs and on estimates 
made on the basis of job costs and average hourly rates  . The figure 
has been calculated on the basis of an 8-hour work day  . Personnel statistics from 2016, by country of operation 
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland EstoniaOther 
countries Total
Personnel at year-end 2,029 724 3,745 894 201 515 8,108
male 1,429 420 2,770 561 110 378 5,668
female 600 304 975 333 91 137 2,440
Personnel, average 2,139 613 3,814 879 207 342 7,994
Personnel expenses, 1,000 euros 167,467 56,385 63,959 16,991 6,069 23,065 333,935
Personnel expenses per person, 1,000 euros 78.3 92.0 16.8 19.3 29.4 67.4 41.8
Workforce by employment contract and employment type, broken down by region and gender (GRI G4-10)
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other 
countries Total
M F M F M F M F M F M F
Employment contract           
Permanent 1,404 563 385 283 2,703 915 345 188 473 214 5,310 2,163
Fixed-term 25 39 25 20 67 57 15 36 12 7144 159
Employment type (permanently employed)           
Full-time 1,392 531 374 263 2,696 911 343 187 469 196 5,274 2,088
Part-time 12 30 11 22 7 4 2 1 4 18 36 752013 2012 2014 2015 201612,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0Number of employees, 31 DecemberEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
48Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover (GRI G4-LA1)
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries
New employee hires M F M F M F M F M F
age group no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
below 30 17 1 9 1 81 19 5 7 9 2
30–50 44 12 15 5 111 48 6 5 26 7
over 50 6 1 4 1 24 8 0 0 2 0
New recruits, % 4.8 2.5 7.3 2.5 8.0 8.2 3.2 6.4 7.8 4.2
 
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries
Employees leaving M F M F M F M F M F
age group no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
below 30 15 3 4 3 31 11 4 7 2 5
30–50 128 29 22 17 98 51 75 13 11 13
over 50 110 19 13 2 140 34 85 9 9 5
Departure turnover, % 18.0 9.1 10.1 7.8 10.0 10.5 47.5* 15.4 4.7 10.7
* Departure turnover was affected by the outsourcing of district heating network maintenance.
 
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries
Employees leaving, employee's initiative M F M F M F M F M F
age group no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
below 30 4 3 2 3 24 10 2 9 2 3
30–50 28 18 20 17 56 25 14 10 9 11
over 50 4 3 3 1 97 27 1 1 8 2
Voluntary departure turnover, % 2.6 4.3 6.5 7.4 6.5 6.8 4.9 10.6 4.0 7.5
Service years of the permanent employees in 2014–2016, %
 Years 2016 2015 2014
0–5 33 32 32
6–10 21 23 20
11–15 10 9 10
16–20 10 9 10
21–26 9 10 11
27–30 8 9 9
31+ 8 8 9Diversity and equal opportunity 
We promote equal treatment and opportunities in the recruiting, 
remuneration, development and career advancement of personnel, 
regardless of the employee’s race, religion, political views, gender, 
age, nationality, language, sexual orientation, marital status or 
disabilities  . 
The average age of our permanent employees was 44  .2 
(2015: 44  .5) years  . The share of employees over 50 years old was 
32%  . Females accounted for 29% (2015: 29%) of our total personnel  . 
Females accounted for 25% (2015: 33%) of the Group- and division-
level management  . The Board of Directors comprised eight 
members, three of them, including the Chairman, were women  . 
Any form of harassment is forbidden and addressed 
immediately  . In Finland, Sweden, and India there are separate 
guidelines in place for workplace harassment and discrimination  . 
There were no incidents of discrimination reported in 2016  .Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
49Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Personnel age distribution of permanent employees by age group, gender and personnel group (GRI G4-LA12)
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries
Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female
age group b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w
under 30 38 68 2 33 4 35 1 28 286 92 16 89 0 41 0 74 26 15 1 17
30–50 174 646 7339 23 173 1167 871 685 147 400 63 95 0 76 124 125 7123
over 50 120 358 2180 24 126 1 85 497 272 138 125 58 88 2 36 120 63 11 55
b = blue-collar, w = white-collar
 
Group and division-level management,  
by age and gender, persons (GRI G4-LA12)
age group Men Women
under 30 0 0
30–50 28 6
over 50 20 10
Equal remuneration
Salary levels at Fortum are compliant with established industry 
practices in each country, local legislation and labour market 
agreements  . Remuneration is based on the achievement of strategic 
business targets and the successful implementation of changes  . 
The total remuneration level is based on competence requirements, 
job performance, and the local market practices with respect to the 
needs of the different business models  . 
In 2016 the short-term incentive scheme was renewed with the 
aim of emphasising in a new way the impacts the operation’s and 
team’s or individual’s performance have on the variable salary 
component  . In the renewed incentive scheme, the short-term 
changing salary component depends on the individual’s job, and 
the amount of the final incentive pay depends on the job-based 
salary level and the combined result of the business unit’s and the 
individual’s goals  . For the above-mentioned reasons, a male/female 
comparison of the short-term incentive pay is not expedient  .
However, the global human resources data system and 
the harmonised job grade classification system enables the examination and reporting of pay equality for the base salary 
in all our operating countries  . Besides the centralised HR data 
management system, a separate, local, data system is also used in 
Russia, and therefore the data on Russia’s pay equality is reported 
separately  . With the corporate acquisitions made in 2016, the 
companies merged with Fortum – and for which the job grade 
classification and the integration of the personnel system has just 
started – are not included in the figures  . 
Our reporting covers all personnel groups except blue-collar 
workers  . A male/female comparison in this group is not done 
because of the small group sizes  . In countries where the number 
of personnel is small, we have reported these countries collectively under “Other countries” so that the data are not identifiable  . 
The figures presented are not comparable with last year's figures 
because the method of calculation has been changed  .
In our operating countries, total number of personnel included 
in the comparison was 2,431, of which 861 (35%) were female  . The 
base salaries of female employees in 2016 were, on average, 17% 
less than the male base salaries in all personnel groups  . Taking 
the job grade levels into consideration reduces the gap between 
female and male salaries  . Additionally, the years of service of the 
individuals also contribute to the differences  . 
In Russia, the difference between female and male salaries was 
-15% for comparable job grade levels (1,662 individuals)  .
Basic salary and service years of women compared to men (GRI G4-LA13) 1) 
CountryDifference between basic salariesDifference between 
service years
All roles, %Roles until middle 
management and 
specialists, %Jobs with tactical  
or strategical role, %Average service 
years, %
Finland -13 -9 -3 -9
Sweden -20 -16 0 10
Poland -7 -4 8 -30
Other countries 2)-4 10 -16 0
Total 2)-17 -9 -4 -12
1) Includes only white-collars, does not include Ekokem, DUON, and Info24
2) Excluding RussiaEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
50Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Employee-employer relations 
Fortum’s business operations are developed and strengthened in 
good collaboration with employees  . We believe that the successful 
management of business is built on relationships of trust between 
management and employees and on the free flow of information  . 
Fortum respects employees’ freedom of association and the right to 
collective bargaining  .
In our operating countries, freedom of association and 
collective bargaining are guaranteed by law  . The exception to 
this is India, which has not ratified the International Labour 
Organisation’s (ILO) Convention on the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining  . In India, we comply with the 
same practices as in other countries of operation, and we do not 
limit or prohibit the right to freedom of association  . 
We apply local collective bargaining agreements in compliance 
with the scope of each respective agreement in all our operating 
countries  . Collective bargaining agreements cover about 85% of 
Fortum’s employees in our main operating countries  .
Share of personnel within collective bargaining agreements, 
by operating country:
• Sweden and Russia: 100%
• Finland: 100% (except top management)
• Estonia: 26% 
In Latvia, the collective bargaining agreements cover less than 10% 
of the personnel  . There are no collective bargaining agreements 
in Lithuania and Poland  . Employment contracts are based on local 
legislation and on the company’s human resources policy  . 
Fortum European Council
Fortum European Council (FEC) convenes, as a rule, once a year  . 
FEC is a Europe-level cooperational function in which personnel 
and employer representatives meet to discuss matters related 
to Fortum  . In 2016, the Fortum European Council (FEC) held a 
meeting in June in Finland, and personnel representatives from 
Finland, Sweden, Poland, and Estonia participated  . The Council’s 
themed workshops focused on, among other topics, Fortum's new strategy, the future outlook for the energy industry, occupational 
safety, management of work-related stress and wellbeing  . 
In addition to Fortum European Council meetings, local level 
meetings are held several times a year in different countries based 
on need .  
Restructuring situations 
In situations of organisational restructuring, we negotiate with 
personnel representatives in compliance with each country’s local 
legislation and contractual procedures  . In situations involving 
personnel reductions, we want to primarily support the re-
employment of the personnel  .
In restructuring situations, the length of the obligatory 
negotiation period depends on the scale of upcoming changes 
and varies in Fortum’s different operating countries  . The shortest 
period for obligatory negotiations is three weeks (Finland) and 
the longest is 90 days (India)  . There is no statutory obligatory 
negotiation period in Sweden, Norway and Lithuania  .
The minimum notice period is based on local legislation, 
collective agreements or employment contracts, which are in 
harmony with the local legislation and agreements  . 
In situations involving personnel reductions, we offer 
outplacement services and, case by case, investigate the 
possibilities to arrange vocational training in cooperation with 
local unemployment authorities or service providers  . Retraining 
for employees who continue working is arranged based on 
organisational and individual needs  .
In situations involving personnel reductions, the content of the 
support package that we offer is decided based on local needs  . The 
financial compensation of the package is usually based on the years 
of employment at Fortum  .
Employee wellbeing 
The energy sector is in transition and this reflects also on Fortum’s 
business  . We want to support our personnel in the change also by 
paying special attention to work wellbeing  . Personnel wellbeing is 
a prerequisite for successful and efficient business operations  .ForCARE work wellbeing model 
The goal of the work wellbeing model, ForCARE, is to promote 
the health and occupational safety of our employees by developing 
the work and work environment and by promoting the functionality 
of the work community  .
The ForCare wellbeing themes in 2016 were “recovery and sleep” 
and “activeness and energy”  . The themes were on the agenda at 
team meetings, and lectures, wellbeing events and activity contests 
related to these themes were held  . 
We began using the HeiaHeia online and mobile app in nearly 
all our operating countries at the beginning of 2016  . HeiaHeia 
offers a wealth of wellness content to motivate users to live 
a healthier lifestyle, to record physical and wellness activities, to 
encourage colleagues, and to participate in team-spirit initiatives  . 
Targeted work wellbeing projects were carried out in the Power 
Solutions unit, among others  . These projects, too, utilised digital 
health and wellbeing technology, including Firstbeat wellbeing 
analyses, activity wristbands and the HeiaHeia app  .
Energise Your Day got under way
As part of ForCare activities, the Energise Your Day wellbeing 
programme was launched in autumn 2016  . It aims to support and 
encourage all Fortum employees to maintain and improve their 
overall wellbeing  . Energise Your Day offers ideas and tools for self-
management, stress management, recovery, nutrition and physical 
activity  . The programme effectively and flexibly utilises modern 
coaching methods and tools  .
The Energise Your Day programme started with a wellbeing 
survey  . Based on the results of the survey, everyone is offered 
wellbeing services, such as lectures and coaching clinics  . 
Additionally, occupational healthcare offers employees survey-
based, targeted support and services based on individual needs  .
The Energise Your Day work wellbeing programme is being 
piloted in Finland and will later be expanded to our other operating 
countries .  Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
51Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Early-support model 
We promote wellbeing at the workplace also through what is 
called an early-support model  . We increase open communication 
between employees and supervisors by discussing and mapping 
the reasons for absences  . Managerial knowhow in working capacity 
management is strengthened through Manage Working Capacity 
MASTER training  .
Occupational safety committee 
and workplace wellbeing
Workplace wellbeing and occupational safety are organised in our 
operating countries in line with local legislative requirements  . 
The occupational safety committees represent all personnel 
groups, and they regularly address issues related to work safety and 
workplace wellbeing  . 
All our employees are within the sphere of occupational health 
care  . We emphasise the significance of preventive activities in 
promoting wellbeing in the company  . The occupational health 
care costs per person in Finland, before the share reimbursed 
by Kela (The Social Insurance Institution of Finland), were 
EUR 460 (2015: 509)  .
Fortum conducts regular examinations of its personnel in 
accordance with local laws  . Employees who in their work are 
exposed to e  .g . noise, dust, radiation or who perform shift work 
are within the sphere of the examinations  . Occupational health 
care also participates in various discussions and assessments in 
the work community  . The occupational health care professionals 
support supervisors by providing information on preventive 
actions as well as alternatives when the ability to work decreases  . 
Occupational health care also offers methods and tools for these 
situations .
Sick-leave absences, occupational 
diseases  and average age of retirement 
At Fortum the rate of absence due to sickness was 2  .3% 
(2015: 2  .4%), which is lower than the average in the energy sector  . 
This figure has become more defined from the one presented in 
the interim report and the operating and financial review (2  .4%)  . For males, the rate of absence due to sickness was 2  .1% (2015: 2  .2%) 
and for females 3  .0% (2015: 3  .0%)  . The sickness absence rate is 
calculated based on the reported working hours of the permanent 
employees .  
In 2016 the rate of absence due to sickness (2  .4%) was adopted 
as a new Group-level indicator to measure employee wellbeing  . 
The management of sick-leave absences and particularly the 
early-support for managers in the management of illness-related 
absences and other working capacity challenges were among our 
focus areas in 2016  . The goal for 2017 is to keep the sicness absence 
rate at the previous year's level  . 
There were 8 (2015: 8) cases of suspected occupational 
diseases in Finland; five were related to noise and three were 
related to asbestos  . Four of the suspected noise-related cases were 
determined to be non-occupational and investigations are still 
underway for one case  . All three suspected asbestos-related cases 
were determined to be occupational diseases and compensated 
as such  . All the cases of suspected occupational diseases 
involved males  .
 An indication of the good management level of working 
capacity and work wellbeing at Fortum is the average retirement age, which was 62 (2015: 62) years  . In 2016, the average effective 
retirement age in the earnings-related pension scheme in Finland 
was 61  .1 years (Source: Finnish Centre for Pensions)  .
Sickness absence rate of permanent 
employees in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-LA6), %
2016 2015 2014
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Finland 2.4 3.5 2.3 3.5 2.3 3.7
Sweden 2.6 6.3 3.1 5.3 2.0 4.1
Russia 1.8 1.6 1.7 2.0 2.0 2.0
Poland 2.6 3.8 4.1 6.5 3.6 4.7
Other 
countries 2.2 3.5 1.8 3.2 2.0 2.2
Employee development 
Fortum encourages its employees to continuously develop 
their knowledge, skills and competencies  . To support this, 
we have focused on developing leadership and organisational 
culture through a coaching approach  . The coaching approach 
increases participative management, which encourages employee 
accountability in their work  . One of the key elements in the 
coaching approach is the giving and receiving of feedback  . 
Leadership coaching and induction 
There were three programmes under way in 2016 to develop the 
leadership and organisational culture of managers:
• Leadership Impact coaching 
• MASTER Growing Leader training 
• Fortum Navigator development programme
A total of 113 managers took part in these programmes in 2016  .
New employees go through an induction programme, part of 
which is Fortum Passport, the online on-boarding programme  . 
In 2016 there were 100 (2015: 131) employees who learned about 
Fortum’s operations through the Fortum Passport programme  .
The sustainability online training targeting all personnel was 
updated in 2016  . The online training is also part of the Fortum 
Passport programme  .
2.3%
Sick-leave absences
Target: ≤2.4%Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
52Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Training hours and costs
In 2016 the total number of training hours was 39,129 (2015: 50,466)  . Courses and licenses are, for the time being, registered in Finland, 
Sweden, and Poland  . Training costs in 2016 totalled approximately EUR 3  .1 (2015: 3  .5) million  .
Training hours 2016 (GRI G4-LA9) 1)
Total number of 
training hours for 
employeesAverage training 
hours per 
employeeTotal number of 
training hours for 
femalesAverage training 
hours per femaleTotal number of 
training hours for 
malesAverage training 
hours per male
Finland 35,655 22 6,345 13 29,310 25
Blue-collar 7,287 30 59 15 7,228 30
White-collar 28,368 20 6,286 13 22,082 24
Other countries 2)3,475 4 428 1 3,047 5
Blue-collar 1,960 15 8 4 1,952 25
White-collar 1,515 2 420 1 1,095 2
Grand Total 39,129 15 6,772 7 32,357 18
1) Excluding Ekokem, DUON, Info24
2) Other countries: Sweden, Poland
Level of education of the permanent 
employees in 2014–2016, %
Level of education 2016 2015 2014
Doctorate 1 1 1
University 43 41 41
Lower university 7 6 6
College 24 27 26
Vocational 17 21 22
Compulsory 3 4 4
Not indicated 5 0 0Performance and development discussions support 
the achievement of targets and professional growth 
Employee development is supported through the annual 
performance and development discussions; all employees are 
within the scope of the annual discussions  . The main target of 
the performance and development discussion is to ensure that the 
employee has clear targets that align with the business as well as 
the competencies supporting the achievement of the targets and 
professional growth .  
The achievement of the targets forms the basis for payment 
of incentives  . All employees who have a minimum of three months 
of employment in Fortum are within the scope of Fortum’s 
incentive plan  . Fortum Sound personnel survey
The Fortum Sound personnel survey is conducted every other year  . 
The response rate to the survey conducted in October 2016 climbed 
to 87% (2014: 84%)  . The results indicate that 70% of the employees 
feel a commitment to the company (2014: 70%)  . 
Based on the survey results, the personnel feel that overall 
wellbeing is at a good level and sustainability is an integral part of 
Fortum’s operations  . Also the level of leadership was considered 
good, although the results in this area varied greatly by unit  .
The most important development targets emerging from 
the survey were communications, customer insight, agility and 
innovation  . These areas were a focus in 2016 through the launch 
of the so-called must-win battle development programmes to 
increase customer-centricity, speed and agility  . Additionally, the 
Fortum Dialogue events between management and employees were 
continued  .Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
53Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Safety and security
For Fortum, excellence in safety is the foundation of our business 
and safe performance is a sign of professionalism  .
Occupational and operational safety  
We strive to be a safe workplace for our employees and for the 
contractors and service providers who work for us  . We believe that 
all work injuries are preventable when competence and the right 
attitude prevails, when potential risks are addressed and when 
measures are taken to safeguard against them  . Good operational 
safety is an absolute prerequisite for safe and efficient operations in 
terms of the employees and the environment  .
We have set Group-level targets for the following key indicators:
• Injury frequency (TRIF* and LWIF**) for own employees and 
(LWIF) for contractors
• Number of serious*** accidents, as of 1 January 2017 number of 
severe**** accidents
• Major environmental, health and safety (EHS) incidents
• Quality of occupational accidents, major EHS incidents and near 
misses investigation process
The safety targets apply to all Fortum employees and are part of 
the Group’s  short-term incentive plan  .
Safety of own employees at a good level
Fortum’s safety performance in 2016 was impacted by the 
completion of the Russian investment programme with good 
safety performance and the integration of Ekokem Corporation 
(as of 1 September 2016) and Grupa DUON S  .A . (as of 1 April 2016)  . 
In particular, Ekokem Corporation’s higher LWIF levels compared 
to Fortum’s impacted the overall statistics  . 
* TRIF: Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
** LWIF: Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours, absence of one or more working days or shift excluding the day the accident happened 
*** Serious accident: fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability or a sick-leave of more than 30 days
**** Severe accident: fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability or accident that could have caused serious consequences Our good safety performance with our own employees 
continued  . The lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) per million 
working hours was 1  .0 (2015: 1  .1) . The total recordable injury 
frequency (TRIF), however, worsened to 1  .9 (2015: 1  .6) .
The lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) for contractors is 
going to be our main challenge in 2017  . The lost workday injury 
frequency (LWIF) per million working hours for contractors in 
2016 was 3  .0 (2015: 2  .7) . We successfully achieved our target (3  .0), 
but we recognise that the LWIF of many contractors working for us is higher than our target level  . Robust safety management actions 
are needed from us in 2017 to reach the set target  . A contractor safety 
performance assessment is also part of our supplier pre-selection 
process  .
In 2016, as in 2015, there were no accidents leading to a fatality 
in Fortum’s operations  . 
Unfortunately, there were still too many serious accidents to 
our own and our contractors’ employees, and we did not achieve 
our target for serious accidents (2016: ≤8)  . In total, there were 
Key safety figures in 2014–2016 (GRI G4-LA6)
 Target 
2020Target 
2017Target 
2016 2016 2015 2014
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 1), own personnel ≤ 1.0 ≤ 1.0 ≤ 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0
Lost workday injuries, own personnel    14 15 15
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 1), contractors ≤ 2.0 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 3.0 3.0 2.7 3.2
Lost workday injuries, contractors    27 29* 35
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 2), own personnel ≤ 2.0 ≤ 2.5 ≤ 2.5 1.9 1.6 2.0
Serious 3) occupational accidents   ≤ 8 13 14** 16
Severe 4) occupational accidents 0 ≤ 5  5   
Fatalities, own personnel  0  0 0 0 0 0
Fatalities, contractors  0  0 0 0 0 3
Major EHS incidents ≤ 15 ≤ 21 ≤ 23 22 18 27
1) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency per million working hours
2) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency per million working hours
3) Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability or a sick-leave of more than 30 days
4) Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability or an accident that could have caused serious consequences
* Including contractor injuries of the divested Distribution business
** The figure revised for reporting 2015.Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
54Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
13 (2015: 14) serious work-related accidents  . Falls and injuries in 
connection with the use of tools were the main causes of the serious 
accidents  . We have investigated all the injuries and launched 
measures to prevent similar injuries  .
As of 1 January 2017 , Fortum has changed the definition of 
the severity of the work-related accidents and is now focusing on 
accidents leading to serious consequences or potential serious 
consequences rather than the length of the sick-leave  . We believe 
that this change will assist us in focusing and removing the root 
causes behind severe accidents and in allocating our resources 
more effectively  . In 2016, there were five severe accidents for both 
own and contractors’ employees  . The Group target for 2017 is ≤5 
severe accidents  . Our target is to reduce severe accident to zero 
by 2020  . 
In reporting accidents, we comply with the principles of the 
United States Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) 
and ILO’s Practices on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases to the extent that they conform with the 
legislation in Fortum’s countries of operation .
Operational safety
We track major environmental, health and safety (EHS) incidents 
as a Group target, which covers fires, leaks >100 litres into the 
environment, explosions, nuclear and dam safety incidents, 
and environmental non-compliances  . There were 22 (2015: 18) 
EHS incidents in 2016; the target was ≤23  . The incidents did not 
cause significant harm to operations, people or the environment  . 
The majority (8) of the incidents were wastewater permit violations 
in Russia .
Common guidelines steer our operations
Fortum has Group-level EHS instructions and minimum 
requirements that set requirements for all the operations for which 
we have operative responsibility  . In 2016 we continued to update these requirements and, as part 
of the implementation, we assessed the divisions’ performance in 
complying with the revised requirements in their operations  . The 
shortcomings were recorded and the corrective measures were 
mostly implemented by all divisions during 2016  . The remaining 
actions will be completed during 2017  . The progress of this 
assessment of implementation is reported quarterly to the Fortum 
Executive Management  . 
A revised version of the Corporate Safety and Security handbook 
together with an e-learning module was published in eight 
languages  . Completion of the e-learning is compulsory for all 
personnel  . The training for the Fortum Executive Management took 
place in January 2017  . 
In 2017 Fortum will introduce two key control points for the 
EHS process: the assessment of compliance with Fortum’s EHS 
minimum requirements and the quality of occupational accidents, 
major EHS incidents and near misses investigation process  . 
A revised corporate incident management system, launched 
in December 2016, will help to ensure the effective root cause 
assessment, reporting and sharing of learnings  . 
We will continue our efforts to improve safety
Our goal is to continuously improve the safety of our operations  . 
Our target for contactor safety in 2017 is LWIF ≤ 3  .5 (2016: ≤3  .0) . 
Setting a higher numeric target than in the previous year might 
seem controversial, but achieving the 2017 targets set by Fortum's 
Board of Directors is very challenging in a situation in which 
acquisitions are resulting in new companies being integrated 
with Fortum  . Achieving the targets requires EHS processes to be 
integrated and significant safety improvements  . 
Excellent occupational safety continues to be a promise we want 
to keep also in the coming years  . We are committed to achieving 
the contractor safety level (LWIF ≤2  .0) by 2020  . Occupational accidents, accident frequencies and absence days due to 
occupational accidents in 2016 by region and gender (GRI G4-LA6)
 Finland Sweden Russia Poland Others
Own personnel      
Occupational accidents causing absence, men 9 0 2 2 1
Occupational accidents causing absence, women 0 0 0 0 0
LWIF, men 3.5 0 0.4 2.2 1.4
LWIF, women 0 0 0 0 0
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for men, days 254 0 61 22 2
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for women, days 0 0 0 0 0
Contractors    
Occupational accidents causing absence, men 17 3 4 1 2
Occupational accidents causing absence, women 0 0 0 0 0
LWIF, men 11.7 3.6 0.8 0.8 6.3
LWIF, women 0 0 0 0 0
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for men, days 316 38 250 14 273
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for women, days 0 0 0 0 0Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
55Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Corporate security
Through corporate security, we strive to ensure the uninterrupted 
continuity of business and the safety of people, information, 
our assets and processes in normal and exceptional situations  . 
Uninterrupted energy production and distribution is important 
both for Fortum’s business operations and for an energy-dependent 
societ y  . 
Securing personnel and business safety
Our Corporate Security unit is responsible at the Group level for 
security and for providing guidelines and support to the business 
units  . Compliance with the minimum safety requirements 
improves our operational ability to withstand and recover from 
disruptions and thus reduces unplanned maintenance outages and 
improves productivity  .
Fortum’s new strategy was published in February 2016  . In 2016 
we analysed the company’s security risks related to potential new 
business areas, services and products  . We assessed risks related to people, business and information in all geographical areas 
where Fortum has potential operations and business travel  . Risks 
impacting the company and business operations may be related 
to political situations, terrorism, crime, conflicts and business 
partners .
Corporate security is improved also by gaining a deeper 
understanding of the security situation so that we can anticipate 
and prevent risks before they materialise  .
Cyber security
Security with the information we handle and with our IT 
systems ensures that we can meet society’s and our customers’ 
expectations  . The aim of cyber security is to ensure the production 
and distribution of power and heat and the functioning of new 
digital services, like Internet of Things applications  . 
In IT security, we aim to ensure the accessibility, integrity 
and confidentiality of critical information  . We also take seriously 
and are uncompromising in our compliance with the regulations 
related to the protection of personal data  . 
We actively engage in collaboration with authorities and other 
stakeholders to understand and prevent new and growing cyber 
threats  . We launch campaigns to increase employee awareness of 
security risks  . We promote ways of operating that take employee 
information security into consideration by providing guidelines 
and, e  .g ., online training  .
Contingency planning
The main disaster and emergency situations we prepare for are 
related to our critical operations, such as power plant and dam 
safety and securing other operations  . 
For dam and nuclear safety, emergency preparedness 
obligations in Finland and Sweden are based on regulatory 
provisions; likewise, there are terrorism-related preparedness 
obligations in Russia  . Otherwise, emergency preparedness 
obligations prescribed by authorities are of a general nature  . 
Based on its own risk assessments, Fortum independently defines 
the crisis and exceptional situations it prepares for and drafts 
action plans for  .Fortum’s crisis and emergency management instructions 
are prepared for Group, division and site levels  . The testing and 
updating of the crisis management and continuity plans are 
the responsibility of each division and line organisation  . Crises 
impacting Group operations more broadly are managed at the 
Group level  . Crisis communication instructions have been prepared 
for e  .g . power and heat outages and for the Loviisa nuclear power 
plant  . Corporate Security is responsible for crisis management 
development, e  .g ., for organising rehearsals and supporting 
planning  . Group Communications is responsible for crisis 
communication .
In 2016, the annual emergency exercise related to a nuclear 
power accident was held at the Loviisa power plant  . Additionally, in 
September 2016, a major accident drill was carried out at Ekokem’s 
Riihimäki plant in compliance with the requirements of the Seveso 
II directive .
1.9
TRIF own employees
Target: ≤2.5
22
Major EHS incidents
Target: ≤23 Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
56Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Corporate citizenship
Social responsibility is a cornerstone of Fortum’s operations  . 
Our operations impact the local communities where our power 
plants are located, and we engage in many kinds of collaboration 
with local stakeholders  . 
We support activities promoting the common good in society, 
for example the work of organisations and communities in our 
operating countries  . Our sponsorship programme focuses on the 
future – on children, young people, the environment and society  . 
Fortum also does significant collaboration with different research 
and development projects, particularly with Nordic universities  . 
We actively participate in  national and international 
organisations  . Public affairs and collaboration with authorities are 
a priority in the energy sector  .
Local impacts and collaboration 
with local communities 
We are an important employer and significant tax payer in our 
operating areas  . In addition, our investments improve the local 
infrastructure  . Of our energy production forms, hydropower has 
the most significant  impacts on local communities  and local 
forms of land use  . Hydropower construction and use may alter the 
fluctuation range and rhythm in the discharge and water level in 
waterways as well as the fish fauna  . These changes impact fishing, 
recreational use, and boating  . We mitigate and compensate the 
adversities caused by hydropower production through numerous 
measures, such as stocking fish and building boat launch ramps  .
We communicate openly, honestly and proactively, and we 
engage in a dialogue with the stakeholder groups located in the 
vicinity of our power plants  . We carry out collaboration projects 
with local communities  . We conduct environmental impact 
assessments (EIA) for our projects in accordance with legislative 
requirements  . The hearing of stakeholders is part of the EIA 
process  . In addition, relevant stakeholders are heard in all permit 
procedures  .Examples of our activities with local communities in 2016:
• Customer panels and meetings were organised in Finland, 
Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Poland  . Meeting with customers is 
one way to get direct feedback and development ideas  . We want 
to accommodate customer needs even better in the future  . 
• Open-house events were arranged at power plants in different 
countries of operation; thousands of locals attended the events  . 
For example, in Jelgava, Latvia, an open-house event is 
organised annually during the Jelgava City Festival, and the 
power plant offers recreational activities to local families  . 
The Ekokem production plant’s open-house event offered the 
opportunity to tour the new  Circular Economy Village  .
• Fortum continued publishing the Naapurina ydinvoimala 
(Nuclear power plant as a neighbour) magazine in Loviisa 
and maintained an active dialogue with local residents and 
representatives of the city of Loviisa  . 
• Projects  aiming to mitigate the adverse environmental 
impacts of hydropower were under way in Finland and Sweden 
in collaboration with municipalities, research facilities, 
fishermen, universities and environmental organisations  . For 
example, every year Fortum partners with other actors to 
improve the environmental conditions and recreational use of 
the River Oulujoki through River Oulujoki restoration and 
multi-use framework agreement projects  .
• The fourth National Clean River Championships was held 
for students in Sweden  . More than 2,300 young people raised 
money for recreational activities by collecting 31 tons of trash 
along the banks of four rivers (Dalälven, Klarälven, Ljusnan and 
Gullspångälven) where Fortum has hydropower plants  .
• District cooling production was started in Tartu, Estonia, after 
active collaboration with the City of Tartu and other stakeholder 
groups  . Fortum is participating in the SmartEnCity project, 
which aims to develop smart solutions for transport, energy 
conservation and ICT to improve the quality of life for citizens  .• Fortum continued supporting local communities with several 
projects in the vicinity of the Kapeli and Amrit solar power 
plants in India  . Among other things, Fortum has improved 
water service as well as lighting and cooling with fans for health 
care centre and schools  . A new classroom was built in a school 
near the Amrit power plant  .
• Fortum supports the communities in power plant areas through 
various donations  . Support in 2016 went to e  .g . workshops and 
scholarships for talented children raised in difficult conditions 
in Poland, a day-care centre for special needs children in Latvia, 
as well as a sports school for children, a hockey team, and 
cultural and residential events in Russia  . 
• In Finland we installed free-to-use, lockable cell phone charging 
stations in public areas, like libraries, hospitals and shopping 
centres .
Support for society
In 2016, our support for activities promoting the common good 
totalled about EUR 3  .6 (2015: 3  .6) million  . The share of grants 
awarded by the Fortum Foundation was about EUR 675,000 
(2015: 706,000) of the support  . Fortum Foundation supports 
research, education and development in the natural, technical and 
economical sciences within the energy industry  . 
In 2017 , Ekokem will award EUR 150,000 in grants for 
environmental and waste management sector research  . The purpose 
of the fund is to promote and support innovative research and 
expertise to benefit the environmental management sector, 
especially with regard to waste management, material recycling, 
the utilisation of waste, the treatment of hazardous waste, and the 
restoration of soil and waters in the Nordic countries  . 
The goal of the collaboration with universities and colleges 
is to develop Fortum’s business, promote energy-sector research 
and development, and foster Fortum’s recruiting and training 
opportunities  .Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
57Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Examples of our collaboration with universities and colleges in 
different operating countries:
• In Finland, we are funding a solar economy professorship 
(75% funding for a five-year period, i  .e . until 2017) at 
Lappeenranta University of Technology  .
• In Sweden, the research with the University of Karlstad on 
improving the downstream migration of fish was concluded  . 
Additionally, there is a multi-year project under way that aims 
to offer sustainability-related training to more than 4,000 
educators  . Fortum’s collaboration partners in the project 
are Pedagog Värmland, Karlstad municipality, engineering 
and consulting company ÅF and Chalmers University of 
Technolog y  . 
• In Poland, Fortum is collaborating with the Wroclaw 
University of Technology on district cooling solutions and 
with the Czestochowa University of Technology’s Faculty of 
Environmental Engineering and Biotechnology  . Fortum also 
has a collaboration agreement with the Silesia and the Krakow 
University of Technology  . 
• In Russia, we are participating in the AboutEnergy training 
programme, which supports educators in providing training 
related to energy conservation  . For university students, we also 
offer internships and information visits at our power plants  . Fortum’s support to society in 2016 by target, % 
 Environment, 35
 Culture, 28
 Children and youth, 20
 Sports, 11
 Other, 7
Fortum’s support to society in 2016 by country, %
 Russia, 60
 Sweden, 18
 Finland, 16
 Poland, 4
 Other countries, 2• In Estonia and Lithuania, Fortum is a member of the Baltic 
Innovative Research and Technology Infrastructure (BIRTI), 
which coordinates collaboration between universities, scientific 
institutes and entrepreneurs  . 
• In Latvia, we are cooperating with Riga Technical University, 
the Latvia University of Agriculture, and the Jelgava Technical 
School, and, in Lithuania, with the Klaipeda Technical School, 
Klaipeda University and Kaunas University of Technology  . We 
arrange internships and information visits for students, and we 
support energy sector-related conferences and seminars  . 
Sponsorship projects 
In 2016, we continued sponsoring the coaching of children and 
youth in football, volleyball, basketball, and track and field  . 
Through the Fortum Tutor programme, we offer tutors to support 
coaches in their daily work as well as financial support for teams 
to train new coaches  . Fortum Tutor operates in Finland and in the 
Baltic cities where Fortum has power plants  .
The Fortum Honorary Energy Donor mobile app has been 
in use in Poland and Russia  . It encourages people to engage in 
physical activity  . The distance covered during a physical activity 
can be converted into energy, for which Fortum makes a financial 
donation to selected charities  . Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
58Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Human rights 
Fortum supports and respects internationally recognised human 
rights, which are included in the key human rights agreements  . 
Our own operations have a direct or indirect impact on the 
realisation of the human rights of our own personnel, those 
working in the supply chain, and members of local communities  .
Management of human rights issues 
Our goal is to operate in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, and to apply these principles in our 
own operations as well as in country and partner risk assessments 
and supplier audits  . Fortum’s approach to the management of 
human rights issues is described in more detail in the  Appendix 1: 
Sustainability management by topic, Human  rights  . 
Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability unit is responsible for 
coordinating and developing sustainability, including human 
rights issues, at the Group level  . 
Personnel training in human rights issues
The online course for Fortum’s Code of Conduct includes training 
in human rights-related issues  . The course is part of the induction 
programme for new employees  . Fortum employees conducting 
supplier audits receive internal training, during which they review 
the requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct, the sub-areas 
to be audited, and the tools to be used to verify compliance with the requirements  . Those who have completed the internal 
training are advised to complete auditor training also on the Social 
Accountability (SA8000) standard  . Internal trainings were not 
organised in 2016 but three Fortum employees participated in 
SA8000 auditor course during the year  . 
Assessment of human rights impacts
A sustainability assessment is carried out for our investment 
projects and takes into consideration the environmental, 
occupational health and safety, and social impacts of the project  . 
The sustainability assessment includes a human rights evaluation, 
especially in new operating areas  . A human rights assessment is 
also part of the systematic assessment of country and counterparty 
risks when planning a project  .
The process has two parts: a light and a deep assessment  . A light 
assessment is done for all new countries in where our business unit 
is planning the sales of operation and maintenance services, for 
example, and it is based on publically available sources  . In 2016, 
28 of these assessments were made  . Deep assessments were not 
done during the year  . 
Fortum’s supplier audits cover the most important human rights 
aspects related to purchases  . The supplier audits conducted in 2016 
and their results are described in more detail in the section 
Sustainable supply chain  . Identified impacts on human rights, 
corrective measures and grievances
All forms of child and forced labour are strictly prohibited and in 
violation of Fortum’s Code of Conduct  . Of our operating countries, 
India has not ratified the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) 
Convention on the minimum age and the worst forms of child 
labour  . Our functions in India require job applicants to be of adult 
age . We have not identified risks related to the use of forced labour 
in our own operations  . Support of employees’ right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining are discussed in the section  
Employee-employer relations  . 
Internal reporting channels used for reporting any suspected 
misconduct relating to the labour practices or human rights 
violations are instructed in Fortum's Code of Conduct  . In addition 
to internal reporting channels, Fortum has an external “Raise a 
concern” channel which is available to all stakeholders  .
In 2016, there were no grievances related to human rights, 
labour rights or discrimination filed through formal grievance 
channels, nor were there any grievances carried over from the 
previous year  .
 Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
59Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Product responsibility 
Fortum is a clean energy company that provides customers with electricity, heating and cooling as well 
as smart solutions to improve resource efficiency  . Our ambition is to engage our customers and society to 
drive the change towards a low-emission energy system and optimal resource efficiency  . 
We are one of the leading electricity sales companies in the Nordic countries, and we sell electricity 
to private and business customers in Sweden, Finland and Norway  . Fortum is one of the world’s biggest 
producers and sellers of heat  . We sell heat to companies, the public sector and private customers in 
Finland, Poland, all the Baltic countries, and especially in Russia  . Additionally, we sell district cooling in 
Finland and in Estonia, where the first customers started using district cooling in 2016  . In Poland, we sell 
electricity, natural gas, and liquefied natural gas  . Fortum Charge & Drive is the Nordic countries’ largest 
electric vehicle charging network, which operates in Norway, Iceland, Sweden and Finland  . 
With the acquisition of Ekokem, Fortum became one of the leading Nordic circular economy 
companies offering environmental management and material efficiency services  . The range of 
services includes recycling, reutilisation and final disposal solutions, as well as soil remediation and 
environmental construction services  . Operations are in Finland, Sweden and Denmark  . Innovative charging facility for electric vehicles in Oslo, Norway
Fortum Charge & Drive opened an innovative electric car charging facility at 
the Vulkan parking garage in central Oslo in December 2016. It has over 100 charging 
stations available for customers.
The battery reserve installed in the garage balances power loads in order to avoid 
putting strain on the power grid during times of high usage. The solution makes it 
possible for parking garages to set up large EV charging facilities without having to make 
expensive and time-consuming upgrades to the power grid. The installation is prepared 
for “vehicle to grid,” meaning that power can be transferred both to and from the 
batteries of the charging cars. The charging facility will be further developed in the first 
half of 2017 to enable a choice in charging speed – from 3.6 to 22 kW – and to pre-book 
a charging slot.
The new charging facility was built in cooperation with the property owner and the city 
of Oslo. The facility is helping Oslo to reach its ambitious climate goals, which include 
cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2020 and 95% by 2030, compared to 
1990 levels.
Fortum Charge & Drive is a pioneer in electric vehicle charging. In total, the network 
consists of 1,200 affiliated smart chargers. The Charge & Drive cloud-based business 
system is already used by about 50 partners in the Nordic countries and nearly 
40,000 end customers. 
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
60Safety and security Corporate citizenship Human rights Product responsibility Employees Security of supply
Guarantee-of-origin-labelled 
and renewable electricity
Fortum is one of the Nordic countries’ leading sellers of carbon 
dioxide-free and guarantee-of-origin-labelled electricity and can 
offer more and more customers an electricity agreement that 
comes with electricity produced with renewable energy  . All the 
electricity we sold to private customers in Finland and Sweden in 
2016 was renewable and carbon dioxide-free hydro-, wind or solar 
power  . The origin of the electricity was guaranteed with European 
Guarantees of Origin  . Some of the production was guaranteed also 
with the pan-European EKOenergy label granted by environmental 
organisations and in Sweden with the Bra Miljöval label  . 
Services to customers
In recent years Fortum has introduced many new solutions that 
improve energy efficiency for customers and reduce environmental 
impacts  . We want to offer growing urban areas sustainable 
solutions that support a circular economy  . Smart solutions 
give customers better opportunities to control their electricity 
consumption and costs  . Fortum is continuously developing 
its products and services to meet the needs of customers  . The 
new solutions are related to, e  .g ., energy efficiency and demand 
response, electric vehicles, solar power, and open district heating  . 
We offer power plant owners and industrial customers a variety 
of expert services for operation and maintenance  . Additionally, we offer products and consulting services related to hydropower, 
nuclear safety and nuclear waste handling  .
Marketing communications 
and customer data protection
Our goal is to present products and services truthfully in all our 
marketing and communication materials  . We do not present 
misleading statements and we strictly follow responsible 
marketing communication guidelines  . In statements 
regarding environmental issues, we follow the regulations 
for environmental marketing  . No violations of regulatory or 
voluntary principles were observed in Fortum’s marketing 
communications in 2016  .
Data protection legislation has been amended in recent years  . 
New personal data protection legislation in Russia took effect in 
2015, and in 2016 the EU published the Data Protection Regulation, 
which will take effect in May 2018  .
Fortum assumes responsibility for customer data protection  . We 
have launched a project to ensure that we fulfil the requirements of 
the regulation by the deadline  . Any changes needed in the handling 
of customer data, among other things, will be implemented 
during 2017  .
Customer satisfaction and reputation 
Products and services
Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI indicators
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
61Reporting principles 
We report on sustainability in this Sustainability Report and in 
the Online Annual Review  . Additionally, we describe sustainability-
related governance practices in the Corporate Governance 
Statement and strategy and the CEO’s view in the CEO Letter  . 
Tax footprint 2016 is also a part of our reporting entity  .
In our sustainability reporting, we comply with 
integrated reporting principles, and we apply the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines’ specific standard 
disclosure indicators we have identified as material  . We apply 
the requirements of the Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures 
where we have deemed the information to be material to our 
stakeholders  . 
We gain information about our stakeholders’ views through 
the One Fortum survey, the stakeholder sustainability survey and 
other stakeholder collaboration  . Our selection of material aspects 
is based on Fortum’s own and our stakeholders’ views regarding 
the materiality of the impacts  . 
We report sustainability information annually in Finnish and 
English  . In our annual reporting we describe Fortum’s operations 
in 2016 as well as some information from January–February 2017  . 
The previous reporting was published in February 2016, and 
our next reporting will be published in February/March 2018  . 
In addition to the annual reporting, we report on our sustainability 
activities in Fortum’s interim reports  . 
Reporting scope and boundaries
Reporting related to operations and management covers all 
functions under Fortum’s control, including subsidiaries in all 
countries of operation  . Possible deviations to this principle are 
reported in conjunction with information applying different 
boundaries  . A list of Fortum’s subsidiaries is in Notes to the 
Financial Statements , Note 42 Subsidiaries by segment  .
Information from previous years is mainly presented as pro 
forma information, i  .e . on the basis of the organisation and 
the functions of each year; the impacts of ownership changes in production facilities, for example, have not been updated 
afterwards in the previous figures  .
The company AB Fortum Värme samägt med Stockholms stad 
(Fortum Värme) is classified in the Financial Statements as a joint 
venture and is consolidated with the equity method as of 1  .1 .2014  . 
Fortum Värme is not included in Fortum’s sustainability targets 
and indicators nor in the descriptions of management practices  . 
Fortum Värme’s sustainability information is available in Fortum 
Värme’s sustainability report .  
Fortum completed the divestment of its Distribution business on 
1 June 2015  . In this report, the information for 2016 and, as a general 
rule, also for 2015 does not include the Distribution business  . The 
Distribution business is included in the figures for 2014  . 
Fortum completed the acquisition of Ekokem Corporation on 
31 August 2016  . Ekokem is included in Fortum’s sustainability 
reporting starting from 1 September 2016  . Fortum acquired 100% 
of the shares in the electricity and gas sales company Grupa DUON 
S .A . on 8 April 2016  . DUON is included in Fortum’s sustainability 
reporting starting from 1 April 2016  .
Exceptions to the accounting practice are presented in 
conjunction with each figure  . 
Capacity changes
Fortum commissioned unit 2 (248 MW electricity and 174 MW 
heat) of its Chelyabinsk GRES combined heat and power (CHP) 
plant in Russia in March 2016  . With the acquisition of Ekokem 
Corporation, 43 MW of electricity production capacity and 144 MW 
heat production capacity was transferred to Fortum’s ownership  . 
The acquisition of Grupa DUON S  .A . bought Fortum 12 MW of heat 
production capacity  . The new capacity constructed during the year 
and the new plants commissioned are included in the reporting 
starting from their commissioning  . 
Fortum divested the Tobolsk 665-MW CHP plant on 5 February 
2016  . The divested capacities are included in the reporting until the 
divestment date  . Greenhouse gas emissions are reported on a pro forma basis and 
the figures of the comparison years have not been adjusted in terms 
of new or commissioned or divested capacity because of partially 
insufficient data .
Measurement and calculation principles
Data for economic performance indicators is collected from the 
audited Financial Statements and from financial accounting and 
consolidation systems  . 
The environmental information of the report covers the plants 
for which Fortum is the legal holder of the environmental permit  . 
In such cases, the plant information is reported in its entirety  . The 
only exception is the calculation of specific CO 2 emissions from the 
Meri-Pori power plant, where the calculation covers only Fortum’s 
share of production and emissions as specified in the operation 
agreement between Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima Oy  . In the 
specific emissions calculation, the production shares of minority 
holdings are also included in the total production  . 
Fortum utilises a Group-wide database with instructions for 
collecting site-level environmental data  . Sites are responsible 
for data input, emissions calculations and the accuracy of the 
information provided  . The Corporate Sustainability unit compiles 
the data at the Group level and is responsible for the disclosed 
sustainability information .  
Fortum’s CO 2 emissions subject to the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme are annually verified at the site-level by external verifiers  . 
Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions have been reported in 
accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol on the basis of 
the Greenhouse Gas Analysis performed by an external consultant  . 
The average and the year-end total personnel figures presented 
in this report include 332 employees who joined Fortum in 2016 
mainly through corporate acquisitions, but are not included in the 
other personnel figures and tables presented in the report  . These 
individuals include the civil contractors working in the Polish DUON 
Group and the entire personnel of the Swedish Info24 company  .Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI indicators
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
62Fortum’s human resources (HR) management system is used 
in all Fortum’s operating countries and is the main system for 
employee-related personal and job data  . In Russia, the employee 
data system covers mainly superiors  . In addition, Russian 
operations have their own, local data system  . Other social 
responsibility data, such as occupational health-related data, 
originates from various data systems  . 
Designated individuals collect the information and deliver 
it to the Corporate Sustainability unit primarily in the format 
recommended by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)  .
Assurance
Deloitte & Touche Oy has provided limited assurance for the 
1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 reporting period for emissions 
calculations (Scope 1-3) based on the GHG protocol according to 
the requirements published by CDP (Verification of Climate Data)  . 
Global Compact and Caring for climate reporting 
Fortum has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact 
initiative since 2010  . In our sustainability report, in conjunction 
with the description of environmental responsibility, social 
responsibility and business ethics, we describe the realisation 
of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact initiative in our 
operations in 2016  . We use the GRI G4 indicators to measure 
compliance with the principles of human rights, labour standards, 
the environment and anti-corruption .  
Fortum joined the UN Caring for Climate initiative in 2013  . 
Fortum meets the reporting requirements of the Caring for Climate 
initiative by annually participating in the assessment in the CDP’s 
climate change survey and by publishing its response on the 
CDP website  . 
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
63Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI indicators
Reported GRI indicators
 CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
DISCLOSURES OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH
G4-DMA  Management approach Sustainability management / Governance 
and management
Appendix 1, Sustainability management by 
topic
ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY
 G4-DMA   Management approach to economic 
responsibilityAppendix 1, Sustainability management  
by topic
Economic performance  
 G4-EC1  Direct economic value generated and 
distributedEconomic responsibility / Economic impacts
 G4-EC2  Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeEnvironmental responsibility / 
Climate change mitigation  
Financials / Operating and financial review 
/ Risk management 
  G4-EC3   Coverage of the organisation's benefit plan 
obligationsFinancials / Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements / 32 Pension obligations
G4-EC4  Financial assistance received from government Economic responsibility / Economic impacts
Plant decommissioning  
G4-DMA   Management approach Financials /  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements / 30 Nuclear related 
assets and liabilities
System efficiency
 EU11  Average generation efficiency of thermal 
plantsEnvironmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Energy intensity
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
 G4-DMA  Management approach to environmental 
responsibilityAppendix 1, Sustainability management  
by topic
Materials
 G4-EN1  Use of materials Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Fuel consumption
 G4-EN2  Recycled materials used  Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Fuel consumption
Environmental responsibility / 
Circular economyIn our sustainability report 2016 we apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines' specific standard disclosure indicators presented in the table  .  
 CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
Energy  
 G4-EN3  Energy consumption within the organisation Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Fuel consumption 
(consumption) 
Environmental responsibility / Sustainable 
energy production (production)
Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Energy intensity
 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Energy intensity
G4-EN6  Reduction of energy consumption Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency
Water   
 G4-EN8  Total water withdrawal by source Environmental responsibility / Water use
Biodiversity
 G4-EN13  Habitats protected or restored Environmental responsibility / Biodiversity
Emissions   
G4-EN15   Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 1) Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas 
emissions
 G4-EN16  Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 2) Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas 
emissions
G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 3) Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas 
emissions
 G4-EN18  Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity  Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas 
emissions
G4-EN21 NOx and SO 2 and other significant air emissions Environmental responsibility / 
Emissions into air
Effluents and waste
 G4-EN22  Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental responsibility / Water use
 G4-EN23  Total weight of waste by type and disposal 
methodEnvironmental responsibility / 
Waste and by-productsEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
64Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI indicators
 CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
 G4-EN24  Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental responsibility / 
Environmental non-compliances and 
incidents
Compliance
 G4-EN29  Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions 
for noncompliance with environmental laws 
and regulationsEnvironmental responsibility / 
Environmental non-compliances and 
incidents
Supplier environmental assessment  
 G4-EN33  Significant actual and potential negative 
environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
actions takenEconomic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
Environmental grievance mechanisms  
G4-EN34  Number of grievances about environmental 
impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanismsEnvironmental responsibility / 
Environmental non-compliances and 
incidents
Sustainability management / Business 
ethics and compliance
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK  
 G4-DMA  Management approach to social responsibility, 
labour practices and decent workAppendix 1, Sustainability management  
by topic
 G4-10  Workforce Social responsibility / Employees
 G4-11  Coverage of collective bargaining agreements Social responsibility  / Employees / 
Employee-employer relations
 Employment     
G4-LA1  New employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility / Employees
 Occupational health and safety     
 G4-LA6  Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 
number of work related fatalitiesSocial responsibility / Safety and security / 
Occupational and operational safety
Social responsibility / Employees / 
Employee wellbeing
 Training and education     
G4-LA9  Average hours of training per employee Social responsibility / Employees / 
Employee development
 G4-LA10  Programmes for skills management and 
lifelong learningSocial responsibility / Employees / 
Employee development
G4-LA11  Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career reviewsSocial responsibility / Employees / 
Employee development
 Diversity and equal opportunity
 G4-LA12  Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employeesSocial responsibility / Employees / Diversity 
and equal opportunity
Corporate governance statement / 
Governing bodies of Fortum / Board of 
directors CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
 Equal remuneration for women and men     
 G4-LA13  Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menSocial responsibility / Employees / Diversity 
and equal opportunity
Supplier assessment for labour practices  
 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative 
impacts for labour practices in the supply chain 
and actions takenEconomic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
Labour practices grievance mechanisms     
G4-LA16  Number of grievances about labour practices 
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 
grievance mechanismsSocial responsibility / Human rights
Sustainability management / Business 
ethics and compliance
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: HUMAN RIGHTS
 G4-DMA  Management approach to social responsibility, 
human rightsAppendix 1, Sustainability management  
by topic
Investments
 G4-HR1  Human rights screening or clauses included in 
significant investment agreementsSocial responsibility / Human rights
 G4-HR2  Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresSocial responsibility / Human rights
Non-discrimination    
 G4-HR3  Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenSocial responsibility / Employees / Diversity 
and equal opportunity
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
 G4-HR4  Supporting the right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining in risk areasSocial responsibility  / Employees / 
Employee-employer relations
Child labour
 G4-HR5  Measures taken to eliminate child labour in risk 
areas and in operations of significant suppliersSocial responsibility / Human rights
Economic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
 Forced or compulsory labour  
G4-HR6  Measures taken to eliminate forced and 
compulsory labour in risk areas and in 
operations of significant suppliersSocial responsibility / Human rights
Economic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
Assessment
G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsSocial responsibility / Human rights
Supplier human rights assessment  
 G4-HR11  Significant actual and potential negative human 
rights impacts in the supply chain and actions 
takenEconomic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
Human rights grievance mechanisms
 G4-HR12  Number of grievances about human rights 
impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanismsSocial responsibility / Human rights
Sustainability management /  
Business ethics and complianceEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
65Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI indicators
 CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: SOCIETY  
 G4-DMA  Management approach to social responsibility, 
societyAppendix 1, Sustainability management  
by topic
 Local communities    
 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential 
negative impacts on local communitiesSocial responsibility / 
Corporate citizenship
 Anti-corruption
G4-SO3  Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption and the significant risks identifiedSustainability management /  
Business ethics and compliance
 G4-SO4  Communication and training on anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresSustainability management /  
Business ethics and compliance
G4-SO5  Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenSustainability management /  
Business ethics and compliance
Public policy      
 G4-SO6  Total value of political contributions Sustainability management /  
Business ethics and compliance
Anti-competitive behaviour       
 G4-SO7  Total number of legal actions for 
anticompetitive behavior, anti- trust, and 
monopoly practices and their outcomesSustainability management /  
Business ethics and compliance
Compliance
G4-SO8  Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions 
for non-compliance with laws and regulationsSustainability management /  
Business ethics and compliance
Disaster/Emergency planning and response  
G4-DMA   Management approach Social responsibility / Safety and security 
/ Security CODE DESCRIPTION SECTION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY  
G4-DMA  Management approach to social responsibility, 
product responsibilityAppendix 1, Sustainability management  
by topic
Product and service labelling
 G4-PR5  Results of surveys measuring customer 
satisfactionEconomic responsibility / 
Customer satisfaction and reputation
Marketing communications
G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 
with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning marketing communicationsSocial responsibility / 
Product responsibility
Access    
EU30  Average plant availability factor Social responsibility / Security of supplyEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
66Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI indicators
Independent limited assurance report  
on Fortum’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2016
To the Management of Fortum Corporation 
We have been engaged by Fortum Corporation (hereafter: Fortum) 
to provide a limited assurance on Fortum’s Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (hereafter: GHG Emissions) broken down by scope 1, 2 
and 3 for the reporting period of January 1, 2016 to December 31, 
2016 (hereafter: GHG Emissions Disclosures)  . The information 
subject to the assurance engagement is presented in the section 
“Greenhouse gas emissions” of Fortum’s sustainability reporting 
2016 (hereafter: GHG Reporting)  .
Management’s responsibility
Management is responsible for the preparation of the GHG 
Reporting in accordance with the reporting criteria as set out in 
Fortum’s reporting principles and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
(hereafter: GHG Protocol)  . This responsibility includes: designing, 
implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the 
preparation and fair presentation of the GHG Reporting that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
selecting and applying appropriate criteria and making estimates 
that are reasonable in the circumstances  .
Assurance provider’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on 
the reported GHG Emissions Disclosures within Fortum’s GHG 
Reporting based on our engagement  . Our assurance report is made 
in accordance with the terms of our engagement with Fortum  . We 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Fortum 
for our work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we 
have reached .  
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410 to 
provide a limited assurance on performance data  . This Standard 
requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited assurance 
whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe 
that the GHG Emissions Disclosures have not been presented, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria  . 
We did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective 
information, such as targets, expectations and ambitions, disclosed 
in the GHG Reporting  . Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the 
prospective information .  
A limited assurance engagement with respect to the GHG 
Emissions Disclosures involves performing procedures to obtain 
evidence about the reported GHG Emissions  . The procedures 
performed depend on the practitioner’s judgment, but their 
nature is different from, and their extent is less than, a reasonable 
assurance engagement  . It does not include detailed testing of 
source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal 
controls and consequently they do not enable us to obtain the 
assurance necessary to become aware of all significant matters that 
might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement  .
Our procedures on this engagement included:
• A review of management systems, reporting and data  
compilation processes
• Selected interviews of persons conducting scope 1, 2 and 3  
analysis and data owners
• Review of assumptions and emission factors used in calculations
• Analytical testing of consolidated data
• Testing of source data on spot check basis 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion .
Our independence, quality control and competences
We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies which address 
and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of the International 
Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as independent assurance providers 
and in particular preclude us from taking financial, commercial, 
governance and ownership positions which might affect, or be 
perceived to affect, our independence and impartiality and from any 
involvement in the preparation of the report  . We have maintained 
our independence and objectivity throughout the year and there 
were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair 
our independence and objectivity  . 
Deloitte & Touche Oy applies International Standard on 
Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive 
system of quality control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements  . This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary 
team including assurance and sustainability expertise with 
professional qualifications  . Our team is experienced in providing 
sustainability reporting assurance  .
Conclusion
On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information 
subject to the assurance engagement is not prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the GHG Protocol or that the GHG 
Emissions Disclosures are not reliable, in all material respects, with 
regard to the reporting criteria  . 
Our assurance statement should be read in conjunction with 
the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness of the GHG 
Reporting  . 
Helsinki 27 February 2017
Deloitte & Touche Oy
 Jukka Vattulainen   Lasse Ingström
Authorized Public Accountant  Authorized Public AccountantEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
67Appendix 1 Sustainability management by topic
Sustainability management in the areas of economic responsibility, environmental responsibility and 
social responsibility is described in more detail in the accompanying tables  . Additionally, more detailed 
information about the management of different aspects and impacts is presented by topic in this report  .
Management of economic responsibility
Description
Targets and approach For Fortum economic responsibility means competitiveness, performance excellence 
and market-driven production that creates long-term value for our stakeholders and 
enables sustainable growth. Satisfied customers are key to our success and active 
consumers will have a crucial role in the future energy system. Fortum has indirect 
responsibility for its supply chain. We conduct business with viable companies that 
act responsibly.
Each new research and development project is assessed against the criteria 
of carbon dioxide emissions reduction and resource efficiency. Likewise, new 
investment proposals are assessed against sustainability criteria as part of 
Fortum’s investment assessment and approval process. In our investments we 
seek economically profitable alternatives that provide the opportunity to increase 
capacity and reduce emissions.
We measure financial performance with the return on capital employed 
(target: at least 10%) and capital structure (target: comparable net debt/EBITDA 
around 2.5).
The realisation of financial targets in 2016 is reported in the Financial 
performance and position section of the  Financials .
Policies The financial management system is based on Group-level policies and their 
specifying instructions, and on good governance, effective risk management, 
sufficient controls and the internal audit principles supporting them. Other key 
elements steering financial management are presented in the section  
Policies and commitments  and the  Appendix 2 .
Responsibilities The CFO and the Group’s Financial unit, division management, and ultimately the 
CEO and the Board of Directors, are responsible for issues related to finances and 
financial statements and for broader financial responsibility issues.
Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section  
Governance and management .
Monitoring and 
follow-upThe Board decides on the company’s financial targets as a part of the annual 
business planning process. Realisation of the targets is monitored on monthly 
basis both at the division level and by Fortum Executive Management. Fortum’s 
management monitors the realisation of financial targets quarterly as part of the 
business performance assessment, and key indicators are regularly reported to 
Fortum’s Board of Directors. Financial key indicators related to investments are 
monitored in divisions' investment forums and by Fortum Executive Management.
We report regularly on the direct and indirect financial impacts on our most 
important stakeholder groups. Fortum also uses the applicable Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) indicators to measure economic responsibility.Management of environmental responsibility
Description
Targets and approach Fortum's aim is to provide our customers with environmentally benign products 
and services. We strive to continuously reduce the environmental impacts of our 
operations by using best available practices and technologies. We emphasise a 
circular economy, resource and energy efficiency, the use of waste and biomass, 
and climate change mitigation in our environmental responsibility. 
Our company's know-how in carbon dioxide-free hydro and nuclear power 
production and in energy-efficient combined heat and power production, 
investments in solar and wind power, as well as solutions for sustainable cities play 
a key role in environmental responsibility.
We measure the realisation of the environmental responsibility with the 
following indicators, for which we have set  Group-level targets  (targets for 2016 
and 2017):
• Specific CO 2 emissions 
• Energy efficiency 
• Major EHS incidents 
Additionally, we have a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits.
Policies Environmental management is based on Fortum's sustainability policy. Other key 
elements steering environmental management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments  and the  Appendix 2 .
We assess environmental risks as part of the Group's risk assessment process  
Financials /Operating and financial review/Risk management.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section  
Governance and management .
Monitoring and 
follow-upEHS non-compliances are reported monthly and specific carbon dioxide emissions 
are reported quarterly and energy efficiency improvements annually to the Fortum 
Executive Management. The Group's key indicators are reported regularly to 
Fortum's Board of Directors and are published in Fortum's Interim Reports.
The divisions and sites follow and develop their operations with audits required 
by environmental management systems. Internal and external auditors regularly 
audit our ISO 14001 standard-compliant management system. The CO 2 emissions 
of plants within the sphere of the EU’s emissions trading scheme are audited 
annually on a per plant basis by an external verifier accredited by the emissions 
trading authority. The verification addresses the reliability, credibility and accuracy 
of the monitoring system and the reported data and information relating to 
emissions. The plants must annually submit to the authorities a verified emissions 
report of the previous calendar year’s carbon dioxide emissions. 
We assess the level of operations of our business partners through supplier 
pre-selection and audits. 
For coal, we use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of 
the supply chain. The Bettercoal audits are always conducted by third parties.
We map our stakeholders' views annually with the One Fortum survey and with 
separate sustainability surveys.Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
68Description
Targets and approach We aspire to be a desired and safe workplace for our employees and for contractors and service providers working for us. We believe that all accidents can be avoided. Our social responsibility 
targets are related to employee well-being and competence development, occupational and operational safety, responsible business practices and responsible operations in our supply chain, and 
good corporate citizenship.
We measure the realisation of the social responsibility with the following indicators, for which we have set  Group-level targets  (targets for 2016 and 2017):
• Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF), own personnel 
• Lost Workday Injury Frequency (LWIF), own personnel and contractors 
• Number of serious occupational accidents, as of January 2017 severe accidents
• Quality of occupational accidents, serious EHS incidents, and near misses investigation process, as of January 2017
• Percentage of sickness-related absences
Additionally, we have a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits. 
Policies Safety management is based on Fortum’s sustainability policy. Other key elements steering labour practices and safety management are presented in the section  Policies and commitments  and 
the Appendix 2 .
We assess safety risks as part of the Group’s risk assessment process. Everyday safety management is guided with about 20 Group-level Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) instructions and 
EHS training events. The Group-level instructions are supported by local-level instructions, which address in more detail the material safety issues and local special requirements. They include, e.g., 
nuclear power plant safety and dam safety. The instructions cover Fortum employees and contractor employees.
Personnel management is based on Fortum’s human resources policy and the supporting Group-level HR processes: strategic planning, recruiting, personnel development, performance
management, remuneration, and employment and workforce administration.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section  Governance and management . 
Monitoring and follow-up Fortum employee and contractor injury frequencies and the number of serious occupational accidents are reported monthly to Fortum Executive Management. The Group’s key indicators are 
reported regularly to Fortum’s Board of Directors and are published in Fortum’s Interim Reports. The divisions and sites follow and develop their operations with audits required by safety and quality 
management systems. Internal and external auditors regularly audit our OHSAS 18001 standard-compliant management system. 
Work wellbeing, indicated as a percentage of sickness absence rate is reported to the Fortum Executive Management every quarter. Work wellbeing is also monitored through other Group-level 
indicators, such as the ratio between actual retirement age and the statutory start of the retirement pension. Monitoring work wellbeing is also part of the Fortum Sound employee survey. The 
survey's wellbeing index measures employee views on e.e. the openness of the dialogue in the work community, personal accountability, and how challenging work tasks are.
We assess the level of operations of our business partners through supplier pre-selection and audits.  The results of the supplier surveys and audits assessing the realisation of labour rights 
and practices are recorded along with corrective measures into the supplier database, which is accessible to all Fortum employees. Fortum has set a Group target for the number of audits, and the 
audits that are conducted are reported in our interim reports.
For coal, we use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the supply chain. The Bettercoal audits are always conducted by third parties.
We map our stakeholders' views annually with the One Fortum survey and with separate sustainability surveys.Management of social responsibility: labour practices and decent workEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
69Management of social responsibility: Human rights
Description
Targets and approach Our goal is to operate in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and to apply these principles in our own operations as well as in country and partner risk 
assessments and supplier audits.
Our social responsibility includes operating as a good corporate citizen and taking care of our own employees and the surrounding communities. We advance the wellbeing and safety of the work 
community, respect for individuals, and mutual trust and responsible operations in our supply chain and more broadly in society.
We have set a Group-level target for the number of  supplier audits .
Policies Key elements steering human rights management are presented in the section  Policies and commitments  and the  Appendix 2 .
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section  Governance and management . 
Monitoring and 
follow-upWe assess the level of operations of our business partners through supplier pre-selection and audits. The results of the supplier surveys and audits assessing the realisation of labour rights and practices 
are recorded along with corrective measures into the supplier database, which is accessible to all Fortum employees. Fortum has set a Group target for the number of audits, and the audits that are 
conducted are reported in our interim reports. For coal, we use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the supply chain. The Bettercoal audits are always conducted by third 
parties.
The divisions and sites follow and develop their operations with internal and external audits required by occupational safety and quality management systems.
Country -specific reports that address also human rights are presented to Fortum’s Board of Directors and Fortum Executive Management when needed.
We map our stakeholders' views annually with the One Fortum survey and with separate sustainability surveys.
Management of social responsibility: Society
Description
Targets and approach We believe that an excellent financial result and ethical business are intertwined. 
We follow good business practices and ethical principles in all our operations. 
We compete fairly and ethically and work within the framework of applicable 
competition laws and Group competition instructions. We avoid all situations where 
our own personal interests may conflict with the interests of the Fortum Group. 
Notably, we never accept or give a bribe or other improper payment for any reason.
Our customer relations are based on honesty and trust. We treat our suppliers 
and subcontractors fairly and equally. We select them based on their merit and 
we expect them to consistently comply with our requirements and with Fortum’s 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
Policies Key elements steering social and compliance management are presented in the 
section Policies and commitments  and the  Appendix 2 .
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section  
Governance and management .
Monitoring and 
follow-upSuspected misconduct and measures related to ethical business practices and 
compliance with regulations are regularly reported to the Fortum Executive 
Management and to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee.
Fortum has  a channel  available to all stakeholder groups for the reporting of 
misconduct. Management of social responsibility: Product responsibility
Description
Targets and 
approachOur goal is to present products and services truthfully in all our marketing and 
communication materials. We do not present misleading statements and we strictly follow 
responsible marketing communication guidelines. In statements regarding environmental 
issues, we follow the regulations for environmental marketing. We assume responsibility for 
customer data protection and comply with the valid regulations related to the handling of 
customer data.
We have set  Group-level targets  (targets for 2016 and 2017): 
• Customer satisfaction
• Reputation
Policies Key elements steering product responsibility management are presented in the section   
Policies and commitments  and the  Appendix 2 .
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section  
Governance and management .
Monitoring and 
follow-upThe availability of power plants are reported monthly to Fortum Executive Management. 
The Group’s key indicators are reported regularly also to Fortum’s Board of Directors and 
are published in Fortum’s interim reports. 
Customer satisfaction is monitored annually with the One Fortum survey. The results 
of the survey are presented to Fortum’s management and they are used to develop the 
business. Customer satisfaction and Fortum’s reputation are part of the Group-level 
sustainability target setting, and they are reported annually to the Board of Directors. 70
Environmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibilityReporting principles 
and assuranceSustainability 
management AppendicesEconomic 
responsibility
Appendix 2 Fortum's main 
internal policies and instructions 
guiding sustainabilityGlossary and  
contact information
Economic 
responsibilityEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial 
responsibility: 
Labour 
practices and 
decent workSocial 
responsibility: 
Human rightsSocial 
responsibility: 
SocietySocial 
responsibility: 
Product 
responsibility
Values x x x x x x
Code of Conduct x x x x x x
Supplier Code of Conduct x x x x x x
 Group Risk policy x x x x x x
 Sustainability policy (including 
environmental, and health and safety 
policies)x x x x x x
 Minimum requirements for EHS 
management x x x x  
 Biodiversity guideline  x   x  
 Guidelines on sustainability 
assessment x x x x  
Human resources policy    x x x  
 Accounting manual x    x  
 Fortum investment manual x    x  
 Group instructions for anti-bribery x    x  
Group instructions for safeguarding 
assets x    x  
 Group instructions for conflicts of 
interestx    x  
 Group instruction on Competition 
Lawx    x  
 Security guidelines  x x x x  
Fortum concept for sponsoring and 
donations    x  Glossary, abbreviations and units on our website
Sustainability contact information on our website