Report Sustainability Report Sustainability Re-
Sustainability Report Sustainability Report         Report Sustainability Report Sustainability  Sustainability Report Sustainability Report              Sustainability Report Sustainability Re-port  inability Report Sustainabi2010
inTO 
inTO
inTO 
inTO
a nEW
a nEW
a nEW
DEcaDE
DEcaDE
DEcaDE
At Fortum we believe in inexhaustible, 
renewable and emissions-free solar energy for future electricity and heat production. In addition to direct solar electricity and heat, solar-based energy forms – like bio, hydro, wave and wind energy as well as geothermal – are part of the solar economy. Solar energy tech-nologies are developing briskly and the use of solar energy in small-scale solu-tions is already cost-effi  cient in countries that have plenty of sunshine. 
Fortum has several solar power demon-
stration and research projects under way to tap into the enormous potential of solar energy.
The largest onshore solar power plant in 
the Nordic countries is located in Glava, Sweden. We are researching the impacts of solar electricity production on the grid. The 87-kW solar power plant built in 2009 has now been expanded to 108 kW, and in 2010 it generated about 88 MWh of electricity for the grid.
In partnership with the Tampere Uni-
versity of Technology, we are develop-ing high-effi  ciency solar cells that can achieve an effi  ciency of more than 40% by concentrating sunlight. The solar cells commonly used today have an effi  ciency of 15 – 20%.
In a project headed by Aalto University, 
we are developing new kinds of roof materials for solar thermal collectors and solar electricity panels. Lowering costs through technology advancements is key to harnessing the potential of solar power for large-scale energy production in the future. 
As a result of the collaborative effort 
between Fortum and the City of Espoo, Finland’s fi  rst solar power plant used for recharging electric vehicles was commis-sioned in 2010 (read more on p. 17).Expedition to a 
solar economy 
FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010
Sustainability Report 
2010
FORTUM IN BRIEF 02
GROUP BUSINESS STRUCTURE 03
REPORT CONTENT 04
CEO’S STATEMENT 06
SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE OF THE STRATEGY 08
SUSTAINABILITY AN INTEGRAL PART OF 
EvERYDAY MANAGEMENT 10
CHANGES IN FORTUM’S OPERATING ENvIRONMENT 12
PURSUING PROFITABLE, RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 18
Nordic electricity market 21
Russia’s wholesale electricity market  21
Fortum’s share and shareholders 22
Personnel and personnel expenses 23
Purchases from suppliers of services and goods 25
Investments in new capacity 25 
Research and development activities 27
Emissions trading and Kyoto mechanisms 27
Fortum in sustainability indexes 28
Support for society 29FORTUM’S REPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENvIRONMENT  30
Carbon dioxide emissions  36
Roadmap to a CO 2-free future 40
Emissions to air and water 44 
Impacts on nature 45 
Wastes and by-products 46 
Environmental risks 48 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PERSONNEL AND SOCIETY 50
Occupational health and safety 56
Supply chain management 60
Dialogue with stakeholders 61
ASSURANCE REPORT 66
KEY FIGURES 68
In this report, CO 2­free energy production refers to hydro, nu­
clear, wind, solar and wave power, which do not generate emis­
sions in the production phase, and the use of biomass energy and the thermal energy generated by heat pumps from ground, water system or waste heat.
  Acronyms and abbreviations used in the report are explained at 
www.fortum.com/sustainabilityAt Fortum we believe in inexhaustible, 
renewable and emissions-free solar energy for future electricity and heat production. In addition to direct solar electricity and heat, solar-based energy forms – like bio, hydro, wave and wind energy as well as geothermal – are part of the solar economy. Solar energy tech-nologies are developing briskly and the use of solar energy in small-scale solu-tions is already cost-effi  cient in countries that have plenty of sunshine. 
Fortum has several solar power demon-
stration and research projects under way to tap into the enormous potential of solar energy.
The largest onshore solar power plant in 
the Nordic countries is located in Glava, Sweden. We are researching the impacts of solar electricity production on the grid. The 87-kW solar power plant built in 2009 has now been expanded to 108 kW, and in 2010 it generated about 88 MWh of electricity for the grid.
In partnership with the Tampere Uni-
versity of Technology, we are develop-ing high-effi  ciency solar cells that can achieve an effi  ciency of more than 40% by concentrating sunlight. The solar cells commonly used today have an effi  ciency of 15 – 20%.
In a project headed by Aalto University, 
we are developing new kinds of roof materials for solar thermal collectors and solar electricity panels. Lowering costs through technology advancements is key to harnessing the potential of solar power for large-scale energy production in the future. 
As a result of the collaborative effort 
between Fortum and the City of Espoo, Finland’s fi  rst solar power plant used for recharging electric vehicles was commis-sioned in 2010 (read more on p. 17).Expedition to a 
solar economy 
The theme of Fortum’s Sustainability Report 2010 is next 
generation energy. Fortum believes that the future energy system will be based on carbon dioxide-free electricity production and energy effi  ciency. The sun symbol reﬂ  ects the projects that are advancing the energy system towards production based on inexhaustible solar energy.nEXT
GEnERaTiOn
EnERGy
Fortum’s purpose is to create energy that improves life for 
present and future generations. We provide sustainable solutions that fulfi  l the needs for low emissions, resource effi  ciency and energy security. Innovations developed by Fortum as well as the security of supply of low­carbon power and heat enable social development and increase well­being. Fortum’s approach to sustainability also includes being a good corporate citizen and taking care of our own personnel and the society around us. 
Fortum’s operations are focused on the Nordic countries, 
Russia and the Baltic Rim area. The rapidly growing and liberalising European and Asian energy markets also offer opportunities for future growth. In 2010 Fortum’s sales were EUR 6.3 billion and comparable operating profi  t was EUR 1.8 billion. The Group has about 10,500 employees. 
Puola2 FORTUM vUOnna 2010 FORTUM OyJ vUOSiKERTOMUS 2010
Liettuaverkkoalueet
FinlandSweden
Norway
EstoniaRussia 
TGC-1Russia 
OAO Fortum
Latvia
Great Britain
PolandFortum’s operations are focused on the 
Nordic countries, Russia and the Baltic Rim area. The rapidly growing and liberalising European and Asian energy markets also offer opportunities for future growth.Finland
Power generation capacity  5,181 MW 
Heat generation capacity  3,745 MW 
Distribution customers  620,000   
Share of electricity customers 15%
Employees  2,609   
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 100%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 61%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 61%
CO2 emissions  7.7 Mt Russia
Power generation capacity 2,785 MW
Heat generation capacity 13,796 MW
Employees 4,289   
ISO 14001 certifi  cation coming in 2011
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation coming in 2011 
ISO 9001 certifi  cation coming in 2013 
CO2 emissions 14.6 Mt
Latvia
Power generation capacity 4 MW
Heat generation capacity 192 MW
Employees 90
ISO 14001 certifi  cation coming in 2011
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation coming in 2011
ISO 9001 certifi  cation coming in 2011
CO2 emissions 0.1 Mt
Lithuania
Heat generation capacity 60 MW
Employees 73
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 100%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 100%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 100%
CO2 emissions 0.01 MtPoland
Power generation capacity 69 MW
Heat generation capacity 757 MW
Employees 633
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 100%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 100%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 100%
CO2 emissions 0.6 MtEstonia
Power generation capacity 50 MW
Heat generation capacity 951 MW
Distribution customers  24,000   
Employees 350
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 51%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 36%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 51%
CO2 emissions 0.3 Mt
Norway
Power generation capacity 167 MW
Heat generation capacity  100,000   
Share of electricity customers 3%
Employees 137
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 88%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 0%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 88%
CO2 emissions 0.02 MtGreat Britain
Power generation capacity 140 MW
Heat generation capacity 250 MW
Employees 63
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 90%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 90%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 90%
CO2 emissions 0.7 MtSweden
Power generation capacity  5,885 MW 
Heat generation capacity  4,576 MW 
Distribution customers 893,000
Share of electricity customers 12%
Employees  2,257   
ISO 14001 certifi  cation 100%
OHSAS 18001 certifi  cation 37%
ISO 9001 certifi  cation 39%
CO2 emissions 1.3 MtLithuaniaFortum in brief
Employees by country, 31 December 2010.
Certifi  cation coverage is based on each country’s sales 
from certifi  ed operations.
The ISO 14001 standard is an international 
environmental management system used in the certifi  cation of a company’s operations.
The OHSAS 18001 standard is an international 
occupational health and safety management system used in the certifi  cation of a company’s operations.
The ISO 9001 standard is an international quality 
management system used in the certifi  cation of a company’s operations. Distribution network
2 FORTUM in bRiEF FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 Group business structure 
Divisions Power Heat Russia Electricity Solutions and Distribution (ESD)
Business The Power Division consists of 
Fortum’s power generation, physical operation and trading as well as expert services for power producers.The Heat Division consists of combined heat and power generation (CHP), district heating and cooling activities and business-to-business heating solu-tions.The Russia Division consists of power and heat generation and sales in Russia. It includes OAO Fortum and Fortum’s slightly over 25% holding in TGC-1.The division is responsible for Fortum’s electricity sales and distri-bution activities. It consists of two business areas: Distribution and Electricity Sales.
Reporting segment Power Heat Russia Distribution Electricity Sales
Sales EUR 2,702 million EUR 1,770 million EUR 804 million EUR 963 million EUR 1,798 million
Comparable operating profit EUR 1,298 million EUR 275 million EUR 8 million EUR 307 million EUR 11 million
Share of Fortum’s sales 33% 22% 10% 12% 22%
Net assets EUR 5,806 million EUR 4,182 million EUR 2,817 million EUR 3,683 million EUR 210 million
Employees, 31 Dec. 2010  
(1 1,819 2,394 4,294 962 525
Market position Third largest power producer in the Nordic countries; among the 15 largest in Europe and Russia Leading heat supplier in the Nordic countries; growing operations in Poland and the Baltics Leading operator in Western Siberia and the Urals area Leading operator in electricity distribution in the Nordic coun-triesSecond largest electricity sales company in the Nordic countries
Geographical area of  
operationsFinland, Sweden, Great Britain. 
In Finland and Sweden 260 hydro-power plants, one nuclear power plant, and co-ownerships in nuclear power plants, two condensing power plants, and co-ownerships in wind power plants. A CHP plant in the Great Britain. Expert services worldwide.Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland,  
Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia  
23 CHP plants and several hundred heat plants and centres in the Nordic and Baltic countries and in Poland.RussiaOAO Fortum has 8 CHP plants and 18 heat plants in the Urals and West Siberia region.Finland, Sweden, Norway, 
Estonia1.6 million electricity distribution customers in the Nordic coun-tries and Estonia.Finland, Sweden, Norway
1.2 million private and business customers in the Nordic countries.
Business drivers • Nordic power price, stability through hedging 
• About 90% of the production is hydro and nuclear power: hydro-logical situation, nuclear power avail-ability, and prices of fuels and emis-sions allowances important 
 • Steady growth through investments 
• Fuel flexibility and efficiency play a key role
• Recent investments into new CHP production have started to bring earnings 
 • Liberalisation of the power market• Investment programme: earnings 
growth through new capacity and new volumes 
• Efficiency upgrades • Gas and electricity price ratio • Development of heat business • Regulated, steady return
• Very capital-intensive 
• Growth through investments 
• Long-term optimised levels of investment and maintenance
• Cost-efficiency and quality of service• Margin between Nordic whole-
sale procurement cost and retail sales price levels
• Efficient hedging of the margin• Leading seller of eco-labelled 
and CO
2-free electricity in 
Finland, Sweden and Norway
Strategy drivers • Flexible, market-driven production portfolio
• Focus on CO
2-free nuclear and hydro 
power 
• Solid position on the Nordic power market and proven track-record from liberalised power markets central to capturing opportunities in the inte-grating European market• Need for increased resource-effi-ciency will increase CHP’s competi-tiveness
• EU directive to drive new CHP-invest-ments
• Potential for increased usage of local biofuels and waste
• Organic growth opportunities in emerging markets
• Utilisation of CHP-competence in fuels and efficient production• High power demand growth 
• Boosting efficiency of existing opera-tions and bringing the ongoing invest-ment programme to completion• Stable regulated earnings
• Technical development utilised for a more efficient, reliable and smarter network enabling sustainable and energy-effi-cient solutions for customers • Cost-efficiency through efficient business processes
• Growth in customer base through new offerings and innovative solutions
• Economies of scale
Further information  
on the webwww.fortum.com/power www.fortum.com/heat www.fortum.com/russia www.fortum.com/ESD
1) Personnel by division.FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  bUSinESS STRU cTURE  3   Fortum reports on its sustainability 
activities annually in the Annual Report, in interim reports, on its web site at www.fortum.com/sustainability, and in a separate Sustainability Report. The 2009 report was published on the web site in April 2010.
This is Fortum’s fi  rst printed report 
that complies with the Global Report-ing Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines. In its reporting, Fortum has also observed the guidelines of the Electric Utility Sector Supplement. Fortum’s reporting is not yet comprehensive; the aim is to expand it in upcoming years.
Reporting self-assessment
Fortum has done a self­assessment on the comprehensiveness of reporting, as called for in the GRI guidelines, and a comparison of the report content against the GRI guidelines can be read at www.fortum.com/sustainability. Fortum has assessed itself at Application Level B+. The Application Level has been checked by a third party, Pricewater­houseCoopers Oy.
Global Compact reporting
Fortum joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative in June 2010. The year 2011 is the fi  rst year that Fortum is reporting on the realisation of the Global Compact’s ten principles in its opera­tions. Global Compact approves the use of the indicators in GRI G3 guidelines in Communication on Progress (COP) reporting. The GRI comparison table at www.fortum.com/sustainability pre­Report content
sents the indicators Fortum has used in measuring the realisation of the Global Compact principles.
Assurance report
Fortum’s sustainability report is published in Finnish, Swedish and English, and can be read online at www.fortum.com/sustainability. The report in Finnish has been assured by a third party, Pricewa­terhouseCoopers Oy, and congruence between the Finnish and the Swedish and English versions of the report has been verifi  ed. The assurance report is published on pages 66 – 67. The fi  nancial and social fi  gures based on Fortum’s fi  nancial statement 2010 are audited by Deloitte & Touche Oy. The information in the sustainability report is not updated after assurance; any amendments to the content will be reported the following year. This report refl  ects the results of Fortum’s activities in 2010, including some information from January – Febru­ary 2011. Fortum’s next sustainability report will be published in March 2012. 
Assessment of Materiality 
In spring 2010 Fortum carried out an assessment of materiality of the most signifi  cant sustainability issues in accordance with GRI G3 guidelines. The process is described in the section ‘Dia­logue with stakeholders.’ Based on the assessment, Fortum’s reporting focuses on sustainability issues signifi  cant to Fortum and its stakeholders.aSSESSMEnT OF SUSTainabiliTy aSPEcTS
Current or potential impact on Fortum
Security 
of energy distribution
Occupational health and safety
Fair and transparent energy pricing
 Long-term profi  tability
 Nuclear safety
Mitigation of climate change
 Nuclear waste handling and fi  nal disposal
 Promoting a functional energy market
Responsible employer
Safe operations
Emissions into the environment
 Risk manage-ment (sustain-ability)
Improved energy effi  -ciency 
 Renewable energy sources
Customer satis-faction, respon-sible marketing communications
Local communities
Biodiversity and land use
Lobbying and positions
 Responsible supply chain
Responsible and ethical business practices
 Power plant availability
         avERaGE                                              MaJOR  avERaGE        MaJORSignifi  cance from stakeholders’ perspective4 REPORT cOnTEnT  FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 Report structure
In 2010 Fortum updated its strategy, 
mission and approach to sustainability. Fortum’s strategy and mission are based on a comprehensive analysis of the global operating environment and megatrends (read more on p. 14).
The beginning of the report presents 
the countries in which Fortum oper ­
ates and the key indicators in terms of production capacity, customers, person ­
nel, certified management systems and carbon dioxide emissions. The Group’s business structure by division is also presented.
The sections describing the sustain­
ability approach and management present the updated strategy, mission, renewed sustainability approach with Group-level targets, and the sustain ­
ability management, organisation and governance principles. In this report, governance principles and risk manage ­
ment are presented from the perspective of sustainability. Fortum’s Corporate Governance Principles, Corporate Governance Statement and a more com ­
prehensive description of risk manage ­
ment are presented on pages 51  – 56 and 
147 – 163 of the Annual Report 2010.
Reconciling the growing energy need 
and sustainability is a big challenge. The section ‘Changes in Fortum’s operating environment’ takes a comprehensive look at key factors impacting Fortum’s operat ­
ing environment: energy and climate policy, market regulation, environmental regulation and sustainable use of natural resources. Sustainability performance of opera ­
tions and the main results are reviewed in the sections of economic, environmen ­
tal and social responsibility. One of the key factors influencing Fortum’s busi ­
ness performance is the wholesale price of electricity, which is determined on the Nordic electricity markets. For this reason, the section ‘Pursuing profitable, responsible growth’ presents the opera ­
tions of the Nordic and Russian power markets in addition to the direct and indirect economic impacts.
Fortum’s responsibility and impacts 
on the environment are described through the whole energy production value chain. Fortum’s long ­term aspira ­
tion is to be a carbon dioxide ­free power 
and heat company. To achieve this aspi ­
ration, a roadmap was compiled in 2010 and is described in the section ‘Roadmap to a CO
2­free future.’
The social responsibility section 
‘Responsibility for personnel and soci ­
ety’ presents the achievements in HR management and occupational safety as well as stakeholders’ views of Fortum’s significant sustainability issues and collaboration with different stakehold ­
ers. Supply chain management is also presented in this section. Case examples of stakeholder collaboration in different countries of operation are presented throughout the report. 
Scope and boundary of the report
Reporting related to the operations and management covers all functions under Fortum’s control, including subsidiar ­ies in all countries of operation. Pos­sible deviations have been reported in conjunction with information applying different limitations. The reporting of management practices doesn’t fully cover Fortum’s minority ownerships, and thus the defining of the scope of reporting isn’t fully compliant with the GRI Bound ­
ary Protocol. Direct and indirect green ­
house gas emissions have been reported in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Information from previous years is 
presented on the basis of the organisa ­
tion and functions of each year; the impacts of ownership changes in produc ­
tion facilities, for example, have not been updated afterwards in the previous key indicators. The operations of the Russian subsidiary OAO Fortum are included in the figures starting 1 April 2008, unless otherwise noted in conjunction with the figures. 
In 2010 Fortum divested about 30 
small heat production plants. The key figures of the divested plants are not included in the reporting. The acquisi ­
tion of the Nokia heat plant was finalised in early 2010. Plants acquired during the year are included in the reporting starting from the date of possession. The same applies to the new additional capacity built and the new plants com ­
missioned during the year in Poland and Estonia.
In 2010 Kirkniemi’s capacity was 
leased for the entire year; Meri ­Pori’s 
capacity was leased from the beginning of the year until the end of June. The production and emissions of the leased capacity are not included in Fortum’s specific emissions figures. The informa ­
tion in question has been included in the absolute figures.
The environmental information of 
the report covers the plants for which Fortum is the legal holder of the environ ­
mental permit. Normally, Fortum is also the majority shareholder of such plants, but the company can be the holder of a plant’s environmental permit also when it is a minority shareholder. In such cases, the plant information is reported in its entirety, but only the share of pro ­
duction and emissions corresponding to Fortum’s share of ownership is calcu ­
lated in the specific emissions figures.
In terms of environmental figures, 
the main focus in Fortum’s reporting is on energy production plant emissions and other environmental impacts, which are significant in the sector. In Fortum’s case, the significance of the environmen ­
tal impacts of office properties is minor in relation to the totality. For this reason, the environmental section includes only a limited review of the environmental impacts of offices, travel and other sup ­
port functions.
  Read more about Fortum’s governance princi -
ples at www.fortum.com/governance 
  Read more about environmental impacts at 
www.fortum.com/sustainabilityFORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  REPORT  cOnTEnT 5   CEO’s Statement
Sustainability at the  
core of the strategy
The foundation of Fortum’s updated 
strategy is the company’s strong know ­
how in CO 2­free nuclear and hydro power 
production, in natural resource-efficient combined heat and power production (CHP), and in operating in competitive energy markets. Sustainability is at the core of our strategy. In line with the strategy, our future growth is based mainly on targets aligned with sustain ­
able development: CO
2­free production, 
energy efficiency and efficient use of resources. Our know ­how also gives us a 
strong position as a developer of sustain ­
able solutions.Revised sustainability  
approach and targets
In conjunction with the strategy work, we revised Fortum’s approach to sustain ­
ability. We want to address economic, environmental and social responsibility in a balanced way in our operations. One of our targets is to bring environmental ­, 
occupational health ­ and safety ­related 
issues in Russia closer to the level of our European operations. Fortum’s carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and particle emissions have increased with the Rus ­
sian operations. We are working with determination to reduce emissions and other environmental impacts from our operations and to improve energy effi ­
ciency. Along with environmental responsi ­
bility, we are highlighting the economic and social impacts of operations.
In this report we are for the first time 
reporting the euro ­amount of added 
value that is generated by Fortum’s operations and distributed by Fortum in the different countries of operation. For example, in 2010 Fortum generated and distributed about EUR 5.2 billion of added value in the form of investments, purchases, wages and salaries paid, and taxes. The distributed added value sup ­
ports the basic functions of society and builds local well ­being.
In January 2011 Fortum’s Manage ­
ment Team approved the new Group level sustainability targets. In addition to the specific CO
2 emissions target for electric ­
ity generation in the EU (<80 g/kWh), our target-setting for specific CO
2 emissions 
for the next five years now covers For ­
tum’s total energy production (electricity and heat) in all countries (<200 g/kWh). Also, we set a target for total efficiency of combustion (>70%).
86% of our electricity production 
in Europe CO 2-free
Mitigating climate change is an impor ­
tant part of Fortum’s strategy. Our long ­
term aspiration is to be a CO 2­free power 
and heat company; 86% of our electricity 
production in Europe was CO 2­free in 
2010. The specific CO 2 emissions of Euro ­
pean electricity producers were, on aver ­
age, about 350 g/kWh in 2009. Fortum’s specific CO
2 emissions from electricity production were 84 g/kWh in Europe and 189 g/kWh for all of Fortum, including the Russian operations. In terms of our specific CO
2 emissions we are among the 
best companies in Europe. We can be proud of this! 
Our extensive investment pro ­
gramme under way in Russia is based mainly on natural gas, which will increase our CO
2 emissions in the near 
future. In Russia, in addition to improv ­
ing energy efficiency, the key measure for reducing carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and particle emissions is to use a better grade of coal. A new type of coal was taken into test use in the second half of 2010.
Cutting emissions  
with energy efficiency
Fortum’s know ­how in combined heat 
and power (CHP) production ranks at the top. In 2010 some 30% of the total electricity and some 70% of total heat was produced at CHP plants. During the year we commissioned CHP plants in Poland and Estonia, plants that are partially biofuel-fired. We also made investment decisions for a biomass ­ and waste ­
fuelled plant in Lithuania and a new waste-fired unit in Sweden. In December we inaugurated the first new unit of our Russian investment programme at the Tyumen CHP ­1 power plant in West 
Siberia. I believe that local fuels and the use of waste in energy production will become increasingly important. 
 For Fortum, 2010 was a time for developing 
the strategy, the operational business and the corporate culture. The company’s financial situation remained stable. Industrial production and electricity consumption in Fortum’s most important market areas clearly increased. At the end of the year Nordic water reservoirs were at a historically low level, which is reflected in the increased use of fossil fuels.6 c EO’S STaTEME nT FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 In Russia Fortum is engaged in exten ­
sive collaboration with the Chelyabinsk 
Region Administration to improve energy efficiency. The automation and upgrade of the Chelyabinsk district heat ­
ing system will reduce energy losses in the area by as much as 30%. 
All-time best safety level in 
European operations
Fortum’s goal is to provide a safe work ­
place for our own personnel and for the 
service providers working at our sites. Fortum’s lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) in 2010 was 2.4, and in Europe we achieved our all ­time best safety level  
of 2.2. 
Despite the good progress, we had 
one accident resulting in a fatality in Russia, for which I want to express my deepest regrets. The accident has been investigated in accordance with Fortum’s guidelines and the corrective measures have been implemented. Our clear goal is to prevent accidents resulting in a fatality.
Strong commitment to 
performance
Fortum aims for performance excel ­
lence and continuous improvement in its 
operations. In the second half of 2010 we launched a multi ­year Leading Perfor ­
mance and Growth initiative in an effort to support the strategy implementation and develop the corporate culture.
We want to be the benchmark 
company for all our stakeholders and to develop Fortum to the benefit of our shareholders, customers, partners and our personnel. The interest in our com ­
pany has increased, which is reflected, e.g., in the significant increase in the number of our shareholders. I am also very pleased with the positive develop ­
ment in our public image and customer satisfaction. For this I want to thank our competent personnel. They have worked diligently to advance Fortum’s growth and performance. And, of course, we must also thank our reliable col ­
laboration partners and our extensive customer base for the past year. I believe that this new decade is filled with oppor ­
tunities for Fortum.
Tapio Kuula
President and CEO
FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  cEO’S STaTEME nT 7   FORTUM’S SUST ainabili Ty TaRGETSIn line with Fortum’s mission, Fortum’s purpose is to create 
energy that improves life for present and future generations. The company provides sustainable solutions that help to reduce emissions, boost the efficient use of resources and secure the supply of energy. Sustainability targets aligned with the strategy were revised in 2010.Sustainability at the  
core of the strategy
Target period Target setting GoalStatus at  
year-end 2010 
Climate targets Over the next five yearsSpecific CO 2 emissions from power generation in the EU per 
kilowatt-hour as a five-year average <80 g/kWh 69 g/kWh
Specific CO 2 emissions from total energy production (electricity 
and heat) per kilowatt-hour as a five-year average (new target)<200 g/kWh 157 g/kWh
Other environmental targets Over the next five yearsEnergy efficiency: Overall efficiency of fuel use as a five-year 
average (produced energy divided by primary energy of fuel) (new target)>70% 69%
By year-end 2010 ISO 14001 environmental certification for all operations in EU 100% 98%
By year-end 2012 ISO 14001 environmental certification for operations in Russia 100% Process started
Occupational safety target Year 2011 Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) for own personnel <1 2.4
Overarching target Annually Fortum included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes World and Europe (new target) Included in World &  
Europe IndexIncluded in  
World IndexFortum’s updated strategy was published 
in September 2010. The mission and strategy are based on a comprehensive operating environment analysis, which is presented in more detail on pages 13 –17 
in this report and on pages 16 –17 in the 
Annual Report 2010.  
Fortum’s strategy aims for continu ­
ous development of existing operations and market ­driven growth in nuclear 
and hydro power and in combined heat and power (CHP) production. Along with technology know ­how, the company’s 
solid competence in electricity markets 8 S USTainabili Ty aPPRO acH FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 and long track record in operating in 
competitive energy markets play a key role in the pursuit for business develop­ment opportunities in current home markets and in the liberalising and rap­idly growing European and Asian energy markets. 
In line with its strategy, Fortum 
aspires to excel in sustainability. At Fortum, sustainability means balanced management of the economic, social and environmental responsibility in the com­pany’s operations. The renewed sustain­ability approach was taken into use in the latter half of 2010 and the old agenda, published in 2008, was closed.
 
Sustainable solutions 
a strategic cornerstone 
Sustainable solutions are the centrepiece 
of Fortum’s strategy. In the area of eco­nomic responsibility, competitiveness, performance excellence and market­driven production create long­term value and enable profi  table growth. 
In the area of environmental respon­
sibility, the company’s know­how in CO
2­
free nuclear and hydro power production and in energy-effi  cient combined heat and power production is emphasised. Research and development activities create requisites for environmentally­benign energy solutions.
Climate change mitigation and the 
reduction of carbon dioxide emissions are important goals that affect the energy sector and the development of electricity and heat production. In addi­tion to new technical innovations, also low-emissions and effi  cient traditional production technologies will be needed for a long time. 
In the area of social responsibility, 
Fortum’s innovations and the secure supply of low­carbon power and heat support the development of society and increase well­being. Fortum’s sustain­ability approach also includes being a good corporate citizen and taking care of its own personnel and the surrounding community. Fortum promotes well­being and safety in the work environment, respect for individuals and mutual trust, and responsible operations in society.
Sustainability targets and 
key indicators
Fortum’s sustainability approach defi  nes 
Group-level targets guiding operations and the key indicators used to monitor them. The approach also defi  nes division-level indicators, which are also moni­tored and reported at the Group-level.
The new key indicators defi  ned in the 
sustainability approach are the target for s p e c i fi c  C O
2 emissions from total energy 
production and the target for overall effi  -ciency of fuel use. The new targets came into effect in January 2011. The sustain­ability results for 2010 are presented in the respective economic, environmental and social responsibility sections and in the key fi  gures table on page 68.
Fortum’s sustainability approach 
also includes the comprehensive envi­ronment, health and safety action plan 
STRATEGYCreate solid earnings 
growth in RussiaLeverage the strong 
Nordic core
Competence in CO 2-free nuclear, hydro and energy-efficient CHP production, 
and operating in competitive energy marketsBuild a platform for 
future growthMISSION
Fortum’s purpose is to 
create energy that improves life for 
present and future generations.
We provide sustainable solutions 
that fulfil the needs for low 
emissions, resource-efficiency and 
energy security, and deliver 
excellent value to our shareholders.
                 EXCELLENCE IN LEADING PERFORMANCE & GROWTHEXCELLENCE IN 
SUSTAINABILITY              EXCELLENCE IN CORE PROCESSES
drafted in 2009 for OAO Fortum’s opera­tions in Russia (read more on pp. 34 – 35 and 59).
The Group-level key indicator for 
injury frequency is for the company’s own employees, but division­level indica­tors have been created also for subcon­tractor injury frequency.
Fortum’s target is to further develop 
key indicators used to measure sustain­ability performance related to e.g. the amount of new CO
2­free capacity, energy 
effi  ciency investments and the effi  ciency of R&D activities. In the area of social responsibility, the target is to defi  ne additional indicators related to person­nel well­being and supply chain manage­ment.   FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 SUSTainabiliTy aPPROacH  9   
Governance 
Corporate governance at Fortum is 
based on laws, the company’s Articles of Association and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, which was updated in October 2010. Fortum complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010 in its entirety. Fortum complies with the rules of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, and the rules and regulations of the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority. The Corporate Governance Statement is issued annually and is presented on pages 147  –163 of the Annual Report 2010.
In 2010 Fortum’s Board of Directors 
comprised seven members, three of whom were women. All members of the Board of Directors are non ­executives 
and, with the exception of Ilona Ervasti ­
Vaintola (dependent on the company), independent of the company and its significant shareholders. The Board of Directors has not appointed any of its The management of the divisions and Group functions, and ultimately the 
President and CEO and the Board of Directors, are accountable for sustainability issues. At the Group level, the Corporate Relations and Sustainability function, assisted by the Sustainability and Public Affairs steering group, is responsible for coordinating, developing and reporting on sustainability. Sustainability an integral  
part of everyday management
members specifically conversant with 
sustainability, and compensation for the Board members is not tied to the sus ­
tainability performance.
The performance bonus criteria for 
senior management are decided by the Board of Directors. The performance bonus criteria may also include indica ­
tors related to the sustainability targets. The remuneration of the Board and the top management is presented on pages 156–159 of the Annual Report 2010.
The Board of Directors’ working 
order and main tasks are presented on page 151 of the Annual Report 2010. When necessary, the Board addresses sustainability ­related issues raised by 
Fortum’s Management Team or the Sus ­
tainability and Public Affairs steering group. 
The Board of Directors regularly 
assesses its activities and annually conducts a self ­assessment in order to further develop its work. Fortum’s Board of Directors convened 11 times in 2010. 
The attendance of the Board mem ­
bers in the Board meetings is presented on page 150 of the Annual Report 2010. 
The Board of Directors has two com ­
mittees – the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee – each of which has at least three members. The committees report to the Board of Directors. Both commit ­
tees convened four times in 2010. The committees’ working orders and main tasks are presented on page 152 of the Annual Report 2010. Like the Board of Directors, also the Audit and Risk Committee carries out an annual self ­
assessment of its performance.
Fortum has a Supervisory Board 
responsible for overseeing that share ­
holders’ interests are safeguarded. The members of the Supervisory Board, its Chairman and Deputy Chairman are elected at the Annual General Meeting for a one-year term of office. In February 2011 there were ten members of which four were women. The Supervisory Board meetings are also attended by three employee representatives who are not members of the Supervisory Board. In 2010, the Supervisory Board met six times. A proposal has been made to dis ­
solve the Supervisory Board; the issue will be addressed at Fortum’s Annual General Meeting on 31 March 2011.
In February 2011 the Fortum 
Management Team consisted of nine members, two of whom were women. The Chairman is Fortum’s President and CEO. The Fortum Management Team meets on a monthly basis. The Fortum Management Team sets the strategic targets, prepares the Group’s annual business plans, monitors financial performance, plans and decides on investments and business arrangements within defined parameters, and reviews the key day ­to­day operations and the 
implementation of operative decisions.
The Supervisory Board, the Board of 
Directors and the Fortum Management Team are separate governing bodies; an individual cannot be a member of more than one of these.
Sustainability organisation
The Corporate Relations and Sustain­ability (CR&S) function is responsible for coordinating and developing sustain ­
ability at the Group level. Its Executive Vice President reports to the CEO and is 10 S USTainabili Ty ORGaniSaTiOn FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 a member of the Fortum Management 
Team. The Executive Vice President of Corporate Relations and Sustainability also serves as Chairman of the Sustain ­
ability and Public Affairs steering group. The steering group comprises represent ­
atives from all divisions and Group func ­
tions. Among other things, the steering group tasks include managing consist ­
ent, systematic and efficient implementa ­
tion of Fortum’s sustainability approach throughout the organisation.
The CR&S function is responsible for 
the operations of the Group’s sustain ­
ability networks. Regularly operating networks include the Climate network, which convened four times in 2010, and the environment, health and safety (EHS) network, which met five times. The Climate network’s primary task was to define Fortum’s new targets for specific CO
2 emissions from energy production 
and the overall efficiency of fuel use.     
The CR&S function issues a sustain­
ability statement (environmental, occupational health, safety and social impacts) about all significant invest ­
ments and business acquisitions as part of Fortum’s evaluation and ratification process for investments.
Clearly defined reporting 
The Fortum Management Team decides on company-level strategy and Group-level target setting, including sustain ­
ability targets, to guide annual planning. 
The divisions define detailed targets 
and develop action plans supporting the achievement of the targets, and they ensure that sustainability goals are included in the business goals. 
Group-level sustainability indicators 
are reported quarterly and the detailed safety and environmental indicators monthly. The Fortum Management Team regularly monitors achievement of the objectives in its monthly meetings and in quarterly performance reviews.
Risk assessment
Fortum’s Board of Directors approves the Group’s risk policy, which defines risk management goals, principles and areas of responsibility, and Fortum’s risk management process. Risk management and control processes are described on pages 51  –56 and 153 –155 of the Annual 
Report 2010.
The assessment of risks related to 
sustainability is also included in the assessment of business risks. The CR&S function assesses the risks related to Group operations and its own opera ­
tions as part of the annual planning. The divisions assess the risks identified by the CR&S function in their own annual planning and prepare for their control.  Read more about corporate governance at  
www.fortum.com/investors
  Read more about Board and senior management 
remuneration at www.fortum.com/governance•  The United Nations (UN) Univer-
sal Declaration of Human Rights 
•  The UN Convention on the 
Rights of the Child 
•  The core conventions of the 
International Labour Organiza -
tion (ILO)
•  Fortum has endorsed the UN 
Global Compact initiative and is a member as of June 2010.Fortum endorses: 
•  Strategy and values 
•  Sustainability policy 
•  Sustainability approach and its 
targets
•  Code of Conduct 
•  Supplier Code of ConductSustainability 
at Fortum is directed by: FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SUSTainabili Ty ORGaniSaTiOn 11   91 %
Emissions 
trading as well as binding environmental and climate  targets are an effective way to curb the environ­mental impacts of energy production.OF FORTUM’S 
CO 2 EMISSIONS 
IN THE EU ARE INCLUDED IN THE EMISSIONS TRADING SCHEME
MEGaTREnD:
SHiFTS in REGUlaTiOnChanges in  
Fortum’s operating 
environmentFORTUM SUST ainabili Ty REPORT  2010  13
Reconciling growing energy needs with sustainability 
is a big challenge. Climate change and the scarcity of natural resources affect the development of the entire energy sector. Fortum actively monitors its operating environment and sustainability requirements. This way, measures can be planned and targeted efficiently. 
Energy is a critical commodity for 
modern society and its development. Global megatrends, such as globalisation, population growth, scarcity of natural resources, climate change, environ ­
mental problems, technology advances and consumer needs, are changing the energy system and will lead to an increasing demand for sustainable energy solutions. 
The overall consumption of energy 
is growing and the relative share of elec ­
tricity in energy consumption is increas ­
ing along with efficiency demands in the use of resources. The growing demand, particularly in the Asian markets, and the old production capacity in industri ­
alised countries are fuelling the need for energy investments globally.
Building new capacity requires a 
significant increase in private capital because of the limited availability of public ­sector funding for energy invest ­
ments. At the same time, liberalisation of the energy markets is continuing and market ­driven regulation is increasing. 
The way Fortum sees it, all of the com ­
pany’s decisions and solutions must be Global 
megatrendsnEW cOnSUMER 
aSPiRaTiOnS
Urbanisation, re-localisation of industries and the rise in living standards, particu-larly in the big growth centres of Asia, are changing consumer habits and increasing energy consumption. The growing environmental awareness of consumers in Europe is motivating energy companies to make their operations and service offering more eco-friendly.
 
GlObaliSaTiOn
With globalisation the world’s economies 
are becoming more dependent on each other and business cycles rarely occur on just a local level. The general develop-ment of the global economy has an impact on the energy sector through e.g. fi  nancial markets, fuel price development, localisation of industries and electricity demand.
 
POPUlaTiOn GROWTH
Fast population growth in developing 
nations is increasing the energy demand and requiring sizeable new investments. Meanwhile, decelerating population growth and changes in the dependency ratio in developed countries are putting pressure on public sector spending and funding. The energy sector’s aging production capacity requires extensive replacement investments. In developing and developed economies alike, the main responsibility for energy investments is on the private sector.incREaSinG EnviROnMEnTal PROblEMS
Climate change and local environmental problems are challenges for which also the energy sector must fi  nd solutions. It is crucial to maximise effi  ciency in the use of the available natural resources and energy sources and to develop and implement new energy-saving and low-emitting technology.TEcHnOlOGy aDvancES
Advances in technology – particularly in information technology – have been very fast in recent decades and have fundamentally changed business globally. Technology development is also in a key position in the pursuit for solutions to climate change and a suffi  cient supply of energy. Distributed production and smart grids are examples of the opportunities offered by technology advances.
 nEW EcOnOMic POWERS
The focus of the global economy is 
shifting from the western hemisphere to Asia, driven by China and India. China has already taken its place as the world’s second largest economy, and it is expected to surpass the United States by 2020. Emerging economies play a central role in the pursuit for a global solution to climate change.RESOURcE ScaRciTy anD EnERGy SHORTaGE
Growth in the global population and the rapid growth in energy demand in emer-ging economies impose huge challenges on the suffi  ciency of natural resources and energy supply. It is estimated that the global population is currently consuming 25% more of the earth’s resources than is sustainable. With the current development, defi  cit deepens even further.
 SHiFTS in REGUlaTiOn
The liberalisation of the electricity markets 
and market integration are examples of the changes countries are making in an effort to boost effi  ciency in energy production and market functioning. These changes also attract investments in new and replacement capacity. Emissions trading and binding environmental and climate targets are an effective way to curb the adverse effects.
GROWinG RElaTivE ROlE OF ElEcTRiciTy
Diminishing natural resources, growing environmental problems and the rising prices of fuels are increasing electricity’s relative share of total energy consumption. With electricity replacing other energy use, the total energy need and emissions are decreasing.
fi  nancially sound on their own merits; 
a sustainable business model cannot be based on public subsidies in the long term. 
Towards an emissions-free 
energy future
Reconciling the world’s growing energy 
needs with the mitigation of climate change is a big challenge. Climate change mitigation and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions as well as the scarcity of natural resources affect the develop­ment of the entire energy sector. If the current trend in the world’s energy production and consumption continues, by 2030 consumption will have increased by more than 1.5 fold and carbon diox-ide emissions by even more. Most of the growth in demand will be satisfi  ed with fossil fuels. Limiting the earth’s temperature rise to 2°C compared to the pre­industrial time requires that emis­sions are reduced by as much as 80 – 90% by 2050.
The signifi  cance of emissions-free 
and low­emissions energy sources as well as the effi  ciency of energy use will be highlighted in the future. The electricity sector has drafted its own visions and plans for emissions­free energy produc­tion at the global, European and national levels. Fortum’s vision of the future of energy production is described on pages 40 – 43.
Fortum’s business is primarily based 
on carbon dioxide­free nuclear and hydro power production and on the strong know-how in energy-effi  cient combined heat and power (CHP) production. Our research and development activities focus strongly on developing future energy solutions and businesses. Fortum has an excellent platform for offering sustainable solutions that help to reduce emissions, boost effi  ciency in the use of resources and secure the supply of energy. Fortum’s strengths also include know­how in electricity sales in the com­petitive energy markets.
Aiming for a global price on CO 2
In Fortum’s opinion, a global price sys­tem and market for carbon dioxide emis­sions is the most effective way to steer energy production in a more sustainable direction. It is likely that a binding, international climate agreement will not be in place before 2012 and that different countries will proceed with their own climate policies and climate targets. The Climate Conference in Cancun, Mexico, in November – December 2010 made advancements in some issues, and the conference confi  rmed continuation of the negotiations under the UN. Major issues, like the amount of emissions reductions and scheduling, are open, and sights are now set on the next confer­ence, which will be held in South Africa at the end of 2011.
Binding climate targets in the EU
Of Fortum’s market areas, the European Union is making determined advances in the implementation of its own climate policy. The EU has set binding targets for emissions reductions and has drafted its legislation to 2020. The EU’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% from 1990 to 2020.
The new European Commission 
started its operations in February 2010. The Commission now has a directorate­general for both energy and climate action. In November the Commission presented the EU’s new energy strategy, the goal of which is to ensure that the EU achieves the ambitious energy, climate and economic targets by 2020. The new strategy outlines the EU’s energy policy for the next nine years and emphasises the importance of a well functioning internal market for securing a competi­tive, sustainable and reliable energy sup­ply for European companies and citizens. The strategy includes initiatives related to the energy infrastructure, energy effi  ciency, nuclear power and smart grids. The Commission has also started preparing a plan for transitioning to a low-carbon economy by 2050.
Fortum supports the EU’s energy 
strategy and agrees that an effi  ciently functioning, integrated electricity market is necessary in order to achieve the emissions reduction targets and to signifi  cantly improve energy effi  ciency. It is also a requisite for the necessary investments in electricity production and transmission capacity.
Emissions trading is the key mecha­
nism steering climate policy in the EU. The emissions trading rules in the next trading period, 2013 – 2020, will be much different from the current rules. The amount of free emissions allowances will decrease considerably and the emission trading scheme will be based on harmo­nised EU­wide rules. Emissions allow­ances for electricity production will have to be acquired through auctions or from the markets. Only certain countries, like Poland and the Baltic countries, will have special derogations allowing them free emissions allowances for electricity production during the 2013 – 2020 period. Emissions allowances for heat produc­tion will be allocated according to a benchmark based on natural gas.
Market-driven renewable energy 
Promoting the use of renewable energy sources is a central component in the EU’s energy and climate policy. The member countries submitted their national renewable energy action plans for achieving the 2020 targets. The Commission has announced that it will amend the renewable energy directive in 2011. The support systems for renew­able energy also will be assessed in this context. 
Market­based mechanisms and har­
monised support systems, like certifi  cate systems, are the most cost-effi  cient way to promote the use of renewable energy forms. A common Nordic certifi  cate system would achieve an estimated cost savings of as much as EUR 950 mil-lion annually, and the benefi  t from a European­wide system would be as much FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 OPERaTinG EnviROnMEnT  15   as EUR 17 billion annually compared to 
national support systems.
Of the Nordic countries, Sweden 
decided in 2010 to extend the use of the electricity certificate system until 2035. Norway is planning to join the common system in 2012. Finland’s support system differs from those in other Nordic coun ­
tries. In Finland legislation on feed ­in 
tariffs was adopted in 2010; accordingly, energy produced with wind power, wood ­based biomass and biogas will be 
subsidised with feed ­in tariffs starting in 
2011. A renewable energy support system based on feed ­in tariffs is also being used 
in Poland and the Baltic countries. 
Russia utilises Kyoto mechanisms
In Russia economic value for emissions is created so far only through Joint Implementation (JI) projects. JI is one of the mechanisms defined in the Kyoto Protocol to reduce emissions. The first JI projects were approved in Russia in July 2010, resulting in a total of 30 mil ­
lion emission reduction units (ERU). The second round of tendering for JI projects was held at the end of 2010, and 18 pro ­
jects and about 28 million ERUs were approved. Fortum’s Tyumen CHP ­1 pro ­
ject and the TGC-1 Nevsky hydropower project were approved as JI projects in the latter tendering process.
Energy efficiency is key
The goal of the EU energy policy is to significantly improve energy efficiency. The plan is to update the Commission’s draft of the 2009 energy-efficiency action plan at the beginning of 2011. The pro ­
posed measures include binding national targets and energy-efficiency certifi ­
cates, i.e. the so-called white certificates scheme. The certificates are an incentive for energy-efficiency measures and will be traded. The central elements of the action plan also include promoting com ­
bined heat and power (CHP) production, energy-efficient grids and smart energy metering.
An energy-efficiency law enacted at 
the end of 2009 in Russia includes regu ­
lations related to e.g. energy-efficient construction, building-specific consump ­
tion meters, energy labels for home appliances, and energy service company (ESCO) operations. The law requires companies to have an energy-efficiency programme if they want government subsidies for their investments.
Emphasis on natural resources 
and biodiversity 
Along with mitigating climate change, 
the efficient use of the limited natural resources and securing natural biodiver ­
sity are becoming key areas of sustain ­
ability. The UN declared 2010 as the International Year of Biodiversity. In the meeting on the Convention on Biologi ­
cal Diversity a strategic plan for global options to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 was approved.
The European Union is developing 
regulations for the sustainable use of bioenergy. In the future biomass sustain ­ability criteria may also apply to solid wood ­based fuels and other biomass used 
in power and heat production. Sustain ­
ability criteria will be very significant in energy production if the criteria define some bioenergy as non ­renewable energy 
sources.
Fortum’s direct impacts on biodiver ­
sity are mainly local and are related to the use of land and water areas, e.g. for hydropower production and the trans ­
mission of electricity. Indirect impacts are created through the procurement of biomass, peat and other fuels.
Tighter emissions requirements 
for fuel-fired power plants
Environmental regulation is very 
comprehensive in Europe and require ­
ments demand continuous operational improvements. In July 2010 the EU approved the Industrial Emissions Direc ­
tive (IED). The directive substantially tightens environmental protection requirements, particularly the emis ­
sions limits on sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particles in all production plants from 2016 onwards. The directive also requires the use of Best Available Technology (BAT) and more precise monitoring and reporting of emissions. In the future, environmental limit values will be based on BAT emissions levels.
The directive allows some flexibility 
for old plants and for plants with limited operations; this imposes limits on the amount of time the plants can operate, but it gives them less strict emissions limits. This enables old plants to be oper ­
ated toward the end of their useful life without expensive investments.
The directive tightens the emissions 
requirements for all Fortum’s thermal plants. A more precise cost impact of the directive will become clear after the plant-specific permit conditions have been defined. The cost impact also depends on how flexibilities are applied in national legislation and at the plant level.
Renewing hydropower legislation 
Sustainable use of water resources and the aquatic environment is regulated through EU and national legislation.
Implementation of the EU Water 
Framework Directive in member states continued. The directive affects Fortum’s hydropower in Sweden and Finland. According to the directive, all European waters must achieve a good ecological and chemical status by 2015. The EU member states reported the river basin management plans and action pro ­
grammes to the Commission in March 2010. The measures must be initiated by December 2012.
The majority of the rivers and regu ­
lated lakes in the impact area of Fortum’s hydro power plants in Finland achieve the environmental target of the directive. The rivers in the impact area of Fortum’s hydro power plants in Sweden have a rated status of less than good; improve ­
ment might require measures.  16 O PERaTinG EnviROnMEnT FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 National implementation of the EU 
Floods Directive is under way, and it too 
could impact hydropower production in Sweden and Finland. 
Fortum has strong know­how in 
hydropower production and in mitigat­ing its environmental impacts. Fortum has implemented voluntary actions both in Sweden and Finland to e.g. increase recreational and multipurpose use of water systems (read more on pp. 44 – 46).
EU regulations for nuclear waste 
management
The European Union has drafted a pro­
posal for a Nuclear Waste Directive, the fi  rst of its kind in the EU. The proposal requires member states to have a plan for the technical and economic implementa­tion of nuclear waste management. The purpose is to set minimum criteria for the planning and implementation of nuclear waste management in member states. The Directive proposal empha­sises obligations for all costs and for the technical implementation for those responsible for the the nuclear waste management. Additionally, the aim is to increase transparency in nuclear waste management.
Finnish and Swedish legislation 
already defi  ne nuclear waste obligations, and every producer is responsible for its own waste. The Loviisa nuclear power plant and Fortum’s co­owned nuclear power plants have the world’s top class solutions for the fi  nal disposal of nuclear waste (read more on p. 47).  
Finland’s fi  rst solar power plant to recharge 
electric vehicles was taken into use at the City of Espoo’s Varikko car depot in summer 2010. The output of the solar power plant is 55 kW, and it has been connected to Fortum’s grid. Any surplus solar power can be fed to the network. By the end of the year, the plant had produced 27 MWh of electricity. The estimated annual production is 45 – 50 MWh, which is enough to cover the annual electricity consumption of 10 –15 electric vehicles. In January 2011 Varikko won the Helsinki Region Climate Award.
An electric car is very energy effi  cient: on 
average its effi  ciency is about three times better than a car with a combustion engine; in urban motoring it can be as much as four times better. That is why an electric car can save about 60 – 70% of the energy used by a gasoline- or diesel-fuelled car.
When comparing carbon dioxide emissions, 
the difference is even more signifi  cant. Because of the relatively low-emissions electricity production in the Nordic coun-tries, the carbon dioxide emissions associ-ated with an electric vehicle are on average about 90% less than those of a car with a combustion engine, even when taking into consideration the emissions generated in electricity production. If the electricity used for recharging is produced with nuclear power or renewable energy, like solar, wind or hydro power, the electric car’s CO
2 
emissions are zero. The solar power plant at Espoo’s Varikko reduces carbon dioxide emissions by about 30 tonnes a year when the Varikko solar electricity is used for recharging electric vehicles.
Developing distributed energy production, 
such as solar electricity and the sup-porting systems, is one of Fortum’s key areas of research and development. The signifi  cance of electricity production that is based on renewable energy sources and produced close to consumers will increase in the future.
The City of Espoo and Fortum will continue 
developing electric motoring through the Eco Urban Living project; Valmet Automo-tive and Nokia are also project participants. Similar projects are under way also in Stockholm.Recharging electric vehicles 
with solar power
FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 OPERaTinG EnviROnMEnT  17   900,000
Technology 
has advanced very quickly and has changed business operations globally. Smart grids are an  example of the opportunities afforded by technological innovations.SMART METERS 
HAVE BEEN INSTALLED FOR FORTUM’S CUSTOMERS
MEGaTREnD:
TEcHnOlOGy 
DEvElOPMEnTPursuing profit ­
able, responsible 
growth FORTUM SUST ainabili Ty REPORT  2010  19
Responsible business operations consistent with 
Fortum’s strategy, mission and values are key factors for Fortum’s success. Fortum’s goal is to achieve excellent financial performance in strategically selected core areas through strong competence and responsible ways of operating. 
For Fortum, economic responsibility 
means generating steady and long ­term 
economic well ­being and added value for 
shareholders, customers, employees, sup ­
pliers of services and goods, and other important stakeholders in the company’s operating and market areas. 
The majority of Fortum’s key finan ­
cial figures are published as part of the financial statements that are prepared and presented in compliance with Inter ­
national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). In addition, Fortum discloses in its Sustainability Report some figures that are collected as part of the financial statement process but are not included in the actual Financial Statements. 
The key figures by which Fortum 
measures its financial success include return on capital employed (target: 12%), return on shareholders’ equity (target: 14%) and capital structure (target: net debt/EBITDA around 3). In addition to those mentioned above, Fortum also uses the applicable Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators for reporting economic responsibility. 
 FortumMEUR 
1,162 
(933) 
MEUR 
2,923 
(2,436)INvESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS
• 97,993 shareholders, the Finnish State 
owns 50,76% of Fortum
• Dividends EUR 888 (888) million
• About 70% of dividends to Finnish shareholders• The relative development of Fortum’s share during the last fi  ve years has outperformed its European utility peers, the share price has appreciated 41% during this period
INvESTMENTS
• Majority of growth investments in the Heat and Russia Divisions
• The majority of the planned invest­ments in Europe target CO
2­free 
production
• Maintenance, productivity and legislation­based investments EUR 436 (410) million
• Growth investments EUR 726 (523) million
• Research and development expendi­ture EUR 30 (30) million• Fortum’s view is that the future energy system should be based on CO
2­free electricity production and 
energy-effi  ciency
• Fortum’s investments develop e.g. safety, production capacity, energy effi  ciency, local infrastructure and electricity distribution reliability
• Fortum’s investments create business opportunities as well as jobs for sup­pliers of goods and services 
PERSONNEL
• Operations are concentrated to the Nordic countries, Russia and the Baltic Rim area
• Fortum employed an average of 11,156 (13,278) people
• Women account for 29% (30%) of the personnel at 31 December 2010• Fortum develops the competence and performance of its employees through skills and leadership training and through job rotation
• Wages and bonuses impact private consumption, and taxes paid by per­sonnel have an impact on the genera­tion of social well­being
PUBLIC SECTOR
• Fortum’s income and production taxes EUR 634 (466) million
• Support for society approximately EUR 5.2 (2) million
• Donations to universities about EUR 2.3 million• Fortum supports social development and well­being by paying taxes and social security costs
• The dividend income on the Finnish State’s shares has an impact on main­taining social infrastructures
• Fortum supports research in the natural, economic and technical sciences within the energy sectorDIRECT        INDIRECT 
DIRECT        INDIRECT 
CUSTOMERS 
• Fortum offers electric­ity, heating, cooling and town gas as well as related expert services
• 1.2 million private and business customers and 1.6 million electricity distribution customers in the Nordic countries and Estonia 
• District heat customers in eight countries and almost 90 cities• Fortum knows the mar­kets it operates in and develops competitive products and services for its customers 
• The services and eco­friendly products Fortum offers help to improve energy effi  -ciency and reduce both costs and emissions
• Fortum develops smart grids that enable sustainable community planningGeneration of added valueDistribution of added value
MEUR
 507 
(495)
MEUR 
642 
(468) Fortum’s operations have both direct and indirect economic impacts. The graphic below shows how Fortum’s operations 
impacted the company’s most important stakeholders in 2010 (the corresponding fi  gure for 2009 is in parentheses). 
DIRECT        INDIRECT 
SUPPLIERS
• Fortum refi  nes natural energy sources into electricity and heat
• Fortum purchases fuels, goods and services from local and global sup­pliers 
• Over 80% of the goods and services Fortum purchases are from suppliers operating in Europe 
• Coal and uranium were purchased from Russia in 2010• Collaboration creates jobs for suppliers and unlocks business oppor­tunities in the Nordic, Baltic, Polish and Rus­sian markets 
• Collaboration, network­ing and partnerships increase Fortum’s intel­lectual capital, enable a wide project base and support the success­ful throughput of R&D projectsMEUR 
6,432 
(6,016) MEUR
1,657 
(1,179) 
The fi  gures are derived from the consolidated cash fl  ow statement and the income statement.
Income from customers (EUR 6,432 million) includes income from products and services to customers, fi  nancial income, and sales proceeds from fi  xed assets and shares.Compensation to investors and shareholders (EUR 1,657 million) includes dividends paid to shareholders, interest expenses, and other fi  nancing costs.  FORTUM’S ECONOMIC IMPACTS20 EcOnOMic RESPOnSibiliTy  FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 Fortum’s economic impacts and pro­
duced well­being, measured in euros, to different stakeholder groups in 2009 – 2010 is presented on page 20. 
The difference between added value 
generated and distributed to stakehold­ers was EUR 703 million (2009: EUR 1,438 million) for the development of own operations 
(1.
Nordic electricity market
Electricity market activities include the generation, transmission, distribu­tion and sales of electricity. Electricity production and sales are competitive businesses; electricity transmission and distribution are regulated. 
The Nordic countries were in the van­
guard in opening their national electric­ity markets to competition and were the fi  rst to establish a regional, multinational electricity wholesale market. Hundreds of electricity sellers and buyers meet in the markets every day and the competition is at the Nordic level. The number of players in the Nordic electricity markets is big and there is very little consolidation. The competition in the electricity wholesale markets will increase when targeted EU­wide electricity wholesale markets are operating by 2015.
Nordic electricity producers primar­
ily sell the electricity they produce to the Nordic electricity exchange (Nord Pool Spot); about three quarters of the elec­tricity produced in the Nordic countries is traded on this exchange. Producers sell the rest either directly to big industrial customers and electricity retailers, or they use the electricity themselves. The balance of supply and demand, the price of fuel and emissions allowances and the hydrological situation affect the whole­sale price of electricity in the Nordic countries.
Electricity transmission and distri­
bution companies operate regionally because it is not cost-effi  cient to build multiple electricity networks in the same area. Authorities monitor electricity transmission and distribution, its costs and the business practices of the compa­nies. The transmission and distribution companies must treat all electricity producers and buyers equally, regardless of the producer or buyer of the electricity they are transmitting. 
Electricity retailers buy their elec­
tricity mainly from the exchange and sell it to households and companies. In addi­tion to the wholesale price of electricity, retail prices are also affected by taxes and other fees by authorities (including subsidies for renewable energy) and the seller’s profi  t margin. Taxes and fees by authorities vary signifi  cantly from one country to another, and as a result also the price paid by consumers for the elec­tricity varies by country.
The electricity retail markets still 
play by national game rules. Households can buy electricity only from electricity sellers operating in their own country. According to EU regulations, households in all EU countries can freely choose their electricity seller on national retail markets. The Nordic countries, however, have agreed to develop retail market operations together, and the goal is for a common Nordic electricity retail market by the middle of this decade. 
Fortum sells all of the electricity it 
produces in the Nordic countries to the Nordic electricity exchange (Nord Pool Spot). Thus the most important factors in terms of Fortum’s profi  t are the whole-sale price of electricity and the volume of the electricity production. The wholesale price of the electricity is determined on the Nordic wholesale markets.
Russia’s wholesale 
electricity market 
Russian electricity market reform pro­
gressed according to the Russian govern­ment’s plans in 2010, despite the deep economic recession of 2009. The share of wholesale electricity sold at competi­tive prices has been gradually replacing the tariff­based share since 2007. At the beginning of 2010, 60% of the electricity was sold at competitive prices. This share increased to 80% in July and further to 100% at the beginning of 2011. The share doesn’t include electricity sold for house­hold consumption.
nORDic ElEcTRiciTy MaRKETS
NORDIC 
MARKET  NATIONAL 
MARKETREGULATED 
BUSINESSCOMPETITIVE BUSINESS ElEcTRiciTy 
SEllER ElEcTRiciTy 
EXcHanGElaRGE-ScalE inDUSTRy 
aS a PRODUcER anD 
USER OF ElEcTRiciTy
ElEcTRiciTy 
PRODUcER ElEcTRiciTy 
USER
ElEcTRiciTy 
USERlOcal DiSTRibUTiOn 
nETWORK anD DiSTRibU-TiOn SySTEM OPERaTORGRiD anD TRanSMiSSiOn SySTEM OPERaTORIn addition to the electricity 
wholesale market, Russia also has an 
electricity capacity market, in which an electricity producer receives earnings for the production capacity it offers for mar­ket use. By having a separate electricity capacity market, the aim is mainly to encourage new investments in electricity production.
The new long­term capacity market 
rules were approved in autumn 2010 and will be applied starting at the beginning of 2011. The so­called old capacity, built before 2007, will compete in competitive capacity selection. The fi  rst competitive capacity selection in accordance with the new rules of the long­term capacity mar­ket was held in December 2010. 
The new capacity, built after 2007 
under government capacity supply agree­
1) Investments are not recognised in the calculation of distributed added value 
(indicator EC1) in accordance with GRI. FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 EcOnOMic RESPOnSibiliTy  21   ments, will receive guaranteed payments 
for a period of 10 years. The price guar ­
antees are defined in order to ensure a sufficient return on investments. 
Upon completion, the new capacity 
built under the capacity supply agree ­
ments will be a key driver for Fortum’s solid earnings growth in Russia as it will bring income from new volumes sold and receive considerably higher capacity payments than the old capacity. The pay ­
ments for new capacity will be approxi ­
mately 3–4 times higher than the average price for the old capacity.  
Even though the Russian power sec ­
tor will be fully liberalised in 2011, sales to households will remain regulated. Households account for about 10% of the wholesale markets. The Russian govern ­
ment is currently discussing liberalisa ­
tion of also the household markets. 
Even after their liberalisation, Rus ­
sian electricity markets function under different regulations than EU electricity markets. Consequently, the integration of EU and Russian electricity markets doesn’t seem likely for a long time, but electricity is actively traded between them.
Fortum’s share and shareholders
Fortum Corporation’s shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki exchange. At the end of 2010 Fortum had 97,993 shareholders. The Finnish State owned 50.76% of Fortum’s shares. Of the shares, 30.2% were in foreign ownership (2009: 31.0%).
The relative development of Fortum’s 
share has outperformed its European utility peers during the last five years. During this period, Fortum’s share price has appreciated approximately 41%. In the same period, the OMX Helsinki Cap index increased by 10% and the Dow Jones European Utility index decreased by about 9%.
Dividend policy
Fortum Corporation’s dividend policy is to pay a dividend that corresponds to an average payout ratio of 50 to 60%. The dividend paid in 2009 was 1.00 euro per share, which was 67.6% of the earnings per share. Based on the number of regis ­
tered shares as of 30 March 2010, a total of approximately EUR 888 million was paid in dividends. The Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of 1.00 euro per share for 2010, i.e. a total of EUR 888 mil ­
lion based on the number of registered shares as of 1 February 2011. 
The dividend to be paid on the 2010 
financial results will be decided at For ­
tum’s Annual General Meeting on 31 March 2011. 
  Read more about Fortum’s share at  
www.fortum.com/investors
Information for investors
Fortum provides information to inves ­
tors fairly and publishes investor  
information in Finnish, Swedish and  
English on the company’s web site at    
www.fortum.com/investors. 
Summaries of investor and company 
information in Polish, French, German and Russian are also available on the web site.
 
   SHaREHO lDERS, 31 DE cEMbER 2010  
Shareholder No. of shares Holding, %
Finnish State 450,932,988 50.76 
Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 13,956,250 1.57 
Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8,894,843 1.00 
The Social Insurance Institution of Finland, KELA 7,195,896 0.81 
The Town of Kurikka 6,203,500 0.70 
The State Pension Fund Finland 5,278,500 0.59 
OP-Delta Fund 3,200,000 0.36 
Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,364,259 0.27 
Svenska Handelsbanken, Finland 2,072,815 0.23 
Mutual Insurance Company Pension Fennia 2,000,000 0.23 
Mandatum Life Insurance Company Limited 1,958,845 0.22 
Tapiola Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,700,000 0.19 
Nominee registrations and direct foreign ownership 268,620,580 30.24 
Other shareholders in total 113,988,569 12.83 
Total number of shares 888,367,045 100.00 
By shareholder category % of total amount of shares
Finnish shareholders  
Corporations 1.34
Financial and insurance institutions 2.63
General government 56.80
Non-profit organisations 1.60
Households 7.39
Non-Finnish shareholders 30.24
Total  100.00
 SHaRE KE y FiGURES 2008–2010  
EUR 2010 2009 2008
Earnings per share 1.46 1.48 1.74
Cash flow per share 1.62 2.55 2.26
Equity per share 9.24 9.04 8.96
Dividend per share 1.00 (11.00 1.00
Payout ratio, % 68.5(167.6 57.5 
Dividend yield, % 4.4 (15.3 6.6
1) Board of Directors’ proposal for the Annual General Meeting on 31 March 2011FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EcOnOMic RESPO nSibiliTy 22   Award-winning investor 
communications
Fortum ranked number one in the 
Nordic companies category in the Hall ­
varsson & Halvarsson Webranking 2010 survey on investor communications on the web. Fortum ranked fifth in the European companies category. Also in 2009 Fortum ranked first in the Nordic companies category. Fortum was espe ­
cially recognised for investor commu ­
nications, for the open and transparent communication in management com ­
pensation, and for public relations.  
In January 2011 Fortum’s investor 
pages were selected the best in Finland among the large cap companies in the competition arranged by The Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion, The Finnish Society of Financial Analysts, and Talouselämä newspaper. The com ­
petition assessed how easily information in Finnish could be found from the company’s web site, in a useful format, quickly and logically.
In 2010 Fortum reported its financial 
performance through a financial state ­
ments bulletin, three interim reports and a printed Annual Report. In 2010 Fortum organised close to 400 meetings with private and institutional investors and maintained a continuous dialogue with securities analysts at investment banks and brokerages. During the year IR representatives and senior manage ­
ment held about 15 presentations at investor conferences in Scandinavia, Great Britain and North America. A Capi ­
tal Markets Day for institutional inves ­
tors and analysts was held in September 2010. In its investor communications, Fortum complies with a silent period of 30 days prior to the publication of its financial results.  
Personnel and personnel expenses
Fortum employed an average of 11,156 (2009: 13,278) people in 2010. The number 
Other
1
Power 33
Heat22 Distribution
12Electricity 
Sales
22Russia
10SALES BY SEGMENT, %
1.5
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
0FORTUM HAS GENERATED ABOUT EUR 5.6 BILLION IN DIVIDENDS 
TO THE FINNISH STATE IN THE 2000 s (1,
dividend/share  (euros )
02 00 03 01 04 05 06 07 08 09 10(20.230.260.310.420.58 0.581.12
0.54
0.731.26
0.530.58
0.771.35
1.0 1.0 1.0
  Additional dividend 2006 and 2007
  Discontinued oil operations
  Continuing operations
1)  Including Neste Oil Corporation shares as dividend EUR 1.9 billion. In addition, 
EUR 1.2 billion proceeds to the Finnish State from selling Fortum’s shares.
2) Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM on 31 March 2011.2010 2009
Employees at year-end 10,585 11,613
Average number of employees 11,156 13,278
Employee costs, EUR million 1)507 495
1) Numbers are based on the income statement.PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES, 2009−2010Fortum’s Częstochowa CHP plant utilising 
the latest technology was commissioned in Poland in 2010. Plant Operations Engi -
neer Rafał Kaczmarzyk (pictured) explains the basics of CHP plant production. 
What does demand-based energy  
production mean at the CHP plant? Every day a plan is compiled for the 
heat energy needs. The plan is based on weather forecasts and previous consump -
tion data. When we know the thermal load, we can determine the electricity production because they are in direct cor -
relation with one another. A CHP operat -
ing plan based on consumption forecasts is always prepared one day in advance. Fortum’s combined system has been designed to best meet the heat consump -
tion of the city of Częstochowa. 
Improving the energy efficiency of the 
fuels used in energy production has a direct impact on the amount of emis -
sions. At Częstochowa we have reduced CO
2 emissions significantly with new 
technology solutions that make it possible to burn multiple different fuels simul -
taneously. We are also using forest and agricultural biomasses for fuel.Combined heat and 
power production in Częstochowa
23 EcOnOMic RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 of employees was highest in Russia, on 
average 4,551. At the end of the year For ­
tum had a total of 10,585 employees (2009: 11,613). Compared to 2009, the number of employees decreased by about 9%. 
According to Fortum’s income state ­
ment, personnel expenses in 2010 were EUR 507 million (2009: 495 million). Per ­
sonnel expenses were EUR 212 million in Finland, EUR 181 million in Sweden and EUR 69 million in Russia.
Changes in personnel and personnel 
expenses are listed by country of opera ­
tion on page 53.
Taxes paid 
The goal of Fortum’s tax policy is to ensure optimal and sustainable tax solu ­
tions for business operations.
The tax benefits Fortum produces for 
society include income taxes and taxes related to the business operations – such as property and fuel taxes. Fortum also has pass ­through taxes, such as the value 
added tax, and withholding taxes, which Fortum is obligated to collect and report on behalf of the government. 
The tax benefits Fortum produces 
are divided between Fortum’s operating countries, which have different tax rates and tax regulations. Thus taxation and the timing of tax payments vary by oper ­
ating country. Fortum Group’s effective tax rate is comprised of all the different tax regulations and tax rates, including timing differences. The effective tax rate doesn’t reflect taxes paid.
Fortum’s total tax impact depends on 
the profitability of operations, the scale of the local operations and the invest ­
ments being implemented. In 2010 For ­
tum paid income and production taxes totalling EUR 634 million (2009: 466), of which EUR 210 million (2009: 109) was paid in Finland and EUR 383 million (2009: 299) in Sweden.
2010 2009
Nordic countries 1,982 1,508
Russia 546 372
Poland 113 89
Estonia 58 43
Other countries 147 15
Total 2,846 2,027MaTERialS anD SER vicES PUR cHaSED, 
2009−2010, EUR million1)
1) Figures are based on the income statement. 
Pensions
Fortum’s pension arrangements conform to the local regulations and practices in each country where Fortum com ­
panies operate. Pension arrangements primarily cover retirement, disability, unemployment and survivors’ pensions as well as some early retirement cover ­
age. The arrangements are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or to Fortum’s pension funds Finland and Sweden. Pension liabilities in pension funds are fully funded as the pension fund collects contributions from Fortum to cover the yearly rise in pension obligations. Contributions and premiums paid for pensions are recorded in Fortum’s consolidated financial state ­
ments according to applicable require ­
ments. 
In Finland the most significant 
pension arrangement is the Finnish Statutory Employment Scheme (TyEL) in which benefits are directly linked to employees’ earnings. These pensions are funded through insurance companies (mostly Varma Mutual Pension Insur ­
ance Company) and include benefits for old age, disability, unemployment and survivors’ pensions. Some employ ­
ees have additional pension coverage arranged through Fortum’s Finnish pension fund (closed in 1991) or through insurance companies. Benefits arranged in insurance companies concern some employees from acquired companies as well as certain members of Fortum’s management. 
In Sweden Fortum has several pen ­
sion arrangements such as the general ITP­pension plan as well as other plans 
that are eligible for employees within companies formerly owned by munici ­
palities. These plans are mostly financed through Fortum’s Swedish pension fund. Benefits covered through pension arrangements include retirement pen ­
sions, additional retirement pensions, survivors’ pensions as well as disability pensions. Determination of pension benefits varies from plan to plan. In some cases the benefit is determined in advance based on final salary, and in oth ­
ers it is dependent on the return on the assets covering the pension liabilities. 
Pension arrangements in Russia 
include payments made to the Russian Federation’s state pension fund. In addi ­
tion the Russian companies participate in a non ­state power industry pension 
fund as well as in certain arrangements, defined by collective agreements, which are unfunded. The benefits provided under these arrangements include, in addition to pension payments, one ­time 
benefits paid in case of employee’s death 
       Capital  
       expenditure (1Employee costs (2          Taxes (3       Total 
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Finland 190 255 212 209 210 109 612 573
Sweden 300 264 181 171 383 299 864 734
Russia 599 215 69 70 20 44 688 329
Estonia 53 47 8 7 3 1 64 55
Poland 45 65 10 11 4 3 59 79
Norway 15 12 11 11 1 1 27 24
Other countries 20 4 16 16 13 9 49 29
Total 1,222 862 507 495 634 466 2,363 1,823DiSTRibUTiOn OF a DDED valUE FROM FORTUM’S OPER aTiOn S,  
BY COUNTRY OF OPERATION, 2009−2010, EUR million
1) Gross investments
2) Based on the income statement
3) Includes paid income taxes and production taxes24 EcOnOMic RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 or disability as well as lump sum pay­
ments for anniversary and fi  nancial support to honoured workers and pen­sioners. 
In other countries the pension 
arrangements are consistent with the local legislation and practice. Most are defi  ned contribution plans. For more information on Fortum’s pension arrangements, see pages 157–158 of the Annual Report 2010. 
Purchases from suppliers 
of services  and goods 
Fortum buys fuels, goods and services 
from international and local suppliers. In 2010 Fortum had about 16,000 goods suppliers, nearly 80% of which were from Finland and Sweden. Of the fuels, Fortum acquired coal and uranium from Russia.  
Fortum’s annual purchasing volume 
in 2010 was over EUR 2.8 billion. Fuels accounted for about EUR 960 million of the purchases. 
Investments in new capacity
Fortum is currently investing substan­tially in new energy production capacity both in Europe and Russia. The invest­ments in Europe target mainly CO
2­free 
production. The investments will add 793 MW of electricity production capacity and 290 MW of heat production capacity by 2015. The investment programme to be fi  nalised in Russia is based mainly on the use of natural gas. The investments in Russia will add 2,360 MW of electric-ity production capacity and 740 MW of heat production capacity. Fortum is also investing in improving the energy effi  ciency of the production plants and district heating systems.In Finland Fortum is replacing its grid 
customers’ electricity meters with new, remotely-read smart meters by the end of 2013. Real-time consumption readings give customers new information about their electricity use and help them to use energy more effi  ciently. Similar projects are also being launched in Norway and Estonia. Smart meters were installed in Sweden in 2006 – 2009.
With smart meters, electricity bills are 
based on actual electricity consumption. Thus, customers will no longer receive estimated or balancing bills. Locating outage areas is easier and repairing malfunctions is faster. Additionally, smart meters enable load control of the grid to prevent spikes. Smart meters are integral to the smart grid of the future.Smart 
consumption metering – the way of the future
FORTUM’S EUROPEan invESTMEnT Plan aS OF 2010
                Planned additional                                     
                 capacity (MW)Commercial 
operation begins Plant Production/Fuel type Heat Electricity 
Power Division (1
Forsmark 1, Sweden Nuclear 25Year completed  2011
Forsmark 2, Sweden Nuclear 25 2012
Forsmark 3, Sweden Nuclear 35Year completed  2013
Oskarshamn 2, Sweden Nuclear 80 2013
Olkiluoto 3, Finland Nuclear 400 2013
Hydropower upgrades, 
Finland and Sweden  Hydropower 100  2015
Heat Division
Częstochowa CHP, Poland  Biofuel/coal 120 64 2010
Pärnu CHP, Estonia  Biofuel/peat 50 24 2010
Klaipėda CHP, Lithuania Waste 60 20 2012
Brista CHP, Sweden  Waste 60 20 2013
Total new capacity 290 793
1) Capacity increases reported under Power Division, represent Fortum’s share of increase.
invESTMEnT PROGRaMME in RUSSia
           Planned additional 
            capacity (MW)
Plant Production/Fuel type Heat Electricity Commercial 
operation begins (1
Tyumen CHP-1  Gas 570 230; 2x225 2011, 2014
Tobolsk CHP  Gas 200 2011
Chelyabinsk CHP-3  Gas 170 226 2011
Nyagan GRES  Gas 3x418 2012 – 2013
Total new capacity  740 2,360
1) Capacity payments begin                Capacity (MW)
Plant Production/Fuel type Heat Electricity Final
EC Zarbze, Poland Coal 226 35 2011
ZEC Bytom, Poland Coal 177 55 2011
Nokian Lämpövoima, Finland  Gas 85 70 2010
Total new capacity 488 160acQUiSiTiOnS 2010FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 EcOnOMic RESPOnSibiliTy  25          Finland        Sweden        Estonia       Poland        Norway     Other 
    countries, total      Total
EUR million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Power
Hydropower 10 4 42 49 52 53
Nuclear power 39 35 39 35
Fossil-based electricity 5 3 5 3
Renewable-based electricity 0 1 0 1
Other 1 4 1 4
Power total 55 47 42 49 97 96
HeatFossil-based heat 16 53 24 17 1 7 38 59 79 136
Fossil-based electricity 5 37 5 37
Renewable-based electricity, of which 14 21 57 24 41 31 18 1 130 77
Waste 1 35 18 54
Biofuels 13 15 41 69
Other 0 7 7
District heat 19 14 36 56 9 6 7 6 5 3 1 3 77 88
Other 0 0 12 20 0 0 1 0 13 20
Total Heat 54 125 129 117 51 44 45 65 5 3 20 4 304 358
Distribution 73 79 128 98 2 2 10 9 213 188
Electricity Sales 0 1 0 1
Other 8 3 1 0 1 9 4
Total, excluding Russia segment 190 255 300 264 53 47 45 65 15 12 20 4 623 647
Russia
Fossil-based electricity 544 199
Fossil-based heat 21 16
Other 34 0
Total Russia 599 215
Total, including Russia segment 1,222 862
 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE, BY COUNTRY 2009−2010 (1 
1) Includes capital expenditure to both intangible assets and to property, plant and equipment.Fortum is researching wave energy as 
a future form of energy production. 
We are planning to build a full-scale 
demonstration wave power plant in Smögen, on the west coast of Swe-den, in collaboration with Seabased Industry. If realised, the plant will have around 420 production units and would be the world’s largest in terms of capacity (10 MW). According to the preliminary plan, construction of the plant will commence in 2012 and end in 2014. 
Fortum is also participating in the Finn-
ish Waveroller development project to convert the energy of waves near the shoreline into electricity. The project aims to build a 300-kW demonstration plant in Peniche, Portugal, in 2011. The plant would feed electricity to the grid.Energy 
from the sea
26 EcOnOMic RESPOnSibiliTy  FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 In 2010 Fortum’s investments 
totalled EUR 1.2 billion, 214 million of 
which was for CO 2­free production. The 
biggest investments were made in Rus ­
sia, EUR 599 million, and in Sweden, EUR 300 million. Investments in renew ­
able energy forms were EUR 182 million. The emissions ­free production invest ­
ments commissioned and completed in 2010 are described on page 36 of the report. In 2010 Fortum invested a total of EUR 91 million (2009: EUR 61 million) in the environment and safety. The invest ­
ments were mainly new CHP invest ­
ments. Costs related to the environment, health and safety were EUR 60 million (2009: EUR 46 million). The figures are illustrative because the calculation prin ­
ciples for environment, health and safety expenses and investments are not com ­
pletely uniform throughout Fortum. 
A sustainability assessment is car ­
ried out for all Fortum’s investment projects and takes into consideration the environmental, occupational health, safety and social impacts of the project. Projects requiring approval by the For ­
tum Management Team are subject to an assessment and approval by Group-level sustainability experts.
 
Research and development activities
Fortum’s R&D goal is performance 
excellence in existing operations, strengthening the requisites for growth, and development of a CO
2­free energy Fortum is building a new power plant 
utilising combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) technology in Nyagan, Khanty-Mansi. The electricity production capacity of the plant exceeds 1,200 MW. The first 418-MW unit is planned to be commissioned in 2012.
Upon its completion, the power plant 
will significantly improve energy sup -
ply in the area. In late 2010 Fortum and the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District signed a memorandum of understanding on social and economic collaboration. 
The agreement strengthens collabora -
tion in the region’s energy production, 
energy efficiency and energy conserva -
tion. Additionally, the aim is to improve the investment climate and create a favourable environment for develop -
ment of the energy sector by means of introducing modern energy-efficiency and energy-saving technologies for the efficient use of natural resources in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Region. 
Khanty-Mansi has an extensive oil refin -
ing industry. Fortum is also exploring 
the possibility of using the associated gas from oil drilling for energy produc -
tion. Normally, the gas is released into the air or flared. If this flare gas can be used in energy production, the environ -
mental benefits would be significant. Nyagan power 
plant – a unique project in Russia’s energy industry
system in the long ­term (read more in 
the Annual Report 2010, p. 26). 
Nuclear power ­related R&D has a 
significant role in Fortum’s research 
and development activities. In 2010 important milestones were achieved e.g. regarding higher burn ­up of nuclear fuel 
and reactor pressure vessel licensing for the Loviisa power plant. 
Other important R&D themes were 
CHP development and the related carbon capture and storage (CCS). Fortum con ­
tinued development work on pyrolysis technology in collaboration with Metso, UPM and VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. Additionally, new fuel tests were conducted using e.g. crushed olive stones as fuel at the Värtan power plant in Stockholm.
During the year, Fortum actively 
developed solutions for sustainable urban living in various projects. Fortum, ABB and the KTH Royal Institute of Technology received 13.4 million Swed ­
ish krona in funding from the Swedish Energy Agency and Vinnova for a pre ­
study on the design and installation of a smart and flexible large-scale electricity grid in the Stockholm Royal Seaport resi ­
dential area. In September 2010, Fortum and Aalto University agreed on wide ­
ranging research cooperation.
Fortum’s total R&D expenditure in 
2010 was EUR 30 million, or 0.5% of sales (2009: EUR 30 million and 0.5%), and 0.8% of total expenses (2009: 0.9%).
 Emissions trading and  
Kyoto mechanisms
Emissions trading and the Kyoto mechanisms (CDM and JI) are important climate measures at Fortum. In 2010 Fortum had a total of 129 plants in six member states within the EU’s emissions trading scheme. About 91% of the CO
2 
emissions in the EU area were included in the emissions trading system. In 2010 Fortum was granted 5.6 million tonnes in free emissions allowances. The com ­
pany’s emissions in the EU emissions trading scheme were 9.7 million tonnes. In terms of emissions allowances, For ­
tum thus was short. 
EU emissions trading has created a 
market price for carbon dioxide emis ­
sions; CO
2 emissions have become a 
factor impacting the variable costs of fos ­
sil­based energy production. The major ­
ity of the emissions allowance price has been passed through to the electricity price in the Nordic electricity markets. 86% of Fortum’s electricity production in the EU in 2010 was CO
2­free (2009: 91%). 
In the emissions trading scheme, CO 2­
free energy production brings Fortum significant competitive advantages.
In addition to the management of 
emissions allowances related to its own production, Fortum also trades carbon dioxide emissions allowances in Euro ­
pean marketplaces such as Nasdaq OMX Commodities Europe and ECX.
Fortum increased its activities in 
the use of emissions trading ­related FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EcOnOMic RESPO nSibiliTy 27   Kyoto mechanisms in 2010. The new unit 
at Fortum’s Tyumen CHP ­1 plant was 
approved in the end of the year as a Joint Implementation (JI) project in the tender process arranged by the Russian govern ­
ment. The TGC-1 Nevsky hydropower plant refurbishment project also received approval. The projects will bring a total of 1.7 million emission reduction units (ERU) by the end of 2012. The transfer of emission reduction units from Rus­sia and the utilisation of them in the EU emission trading scheme requires approval by Finnish authorities. Fortum also increased its share in the World Bank’s Prototype Carbon fund (PCF) by acquiring the fund shares of two Japa ­
nese companies. 
Fortum in sustainability indexes
Expert assessments of sustainability and good rankings in significant sustain ­
ability indexes are important to Fortum because they support the development and continuous improvement in the responsibility of our operations. Addi ­
tionally, the assessments and indexes provide investors with impartial infor ­
mation about the level of the company’s operations in the three sub ­areas of 
sustainability: economic, environmental and social responsibility.
Fortum has been listed for the eighth 
consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sus ­
tainability World Index (DJSI World). The 2010/2011 assessment for DJSI World included about 1,400 companies from 57 different sectors. From the electricity sector, 15 of the 105 companies assessed were included in the index. Fortum is the only Nordic energy company in the index. 
Fortum’s charity programme in Rus -
sia helps orphans, the disabled and 
children from low-income families. Additionally, we support children’s sporting activities. 
In 2010 we gave about 30,000 euros 
for our Russian charity programme. In the Chelyabinsk area the programme supports a charity foundation, an association for blind children, a day care for sight-impaired children, a children’s sports academy, and a chil -
dren’s dance school. 
Ice hockey is one of the most popular 
sports in Chelyabinsk, and more than 800 boys play it at the sports acad -
emy. We donated about 23,000 euros to local junior ice hockey teams, mak -
ing it possible for Traktor Chelyabinsk teams to practice and participate in Russia’s ice hockey championships. In addition we support the Traktor Chelyabinsk hockey team.Our charity 
programme in Russia focuses on children and young people
Fortum was awarded SAM Bronze 
Class in the Sustainability Yearbook 
2010 published by the SAM Group. In the Carbon Disclosure project’s Carbon Performance Index, which measures performance in climate issues, Fortum received a B on a scale of A–D and 82 points out of 100 in the overall rating, and is included in the Nordic Carbon Leadership Index. Fortum was also ranked the Best in Class company fulfill ­
ing the Socially Responsible Investments (SRI) funds’ criteria of the Norwegian banking group Storebrand. In the 2009 overall assessment of energy company performance in corporate responsibility, Fortum ranked best.FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EcOnOMic RESPO nSibiliTy 28   Fortum Tutor is a national programme 
launched in partnership with the Football Association of Finland to develop the skills of coaches of junior football teams. The goal is to make sure that children have an inspiring and competent coach. About 70 football coaching experts have been selected as tutors; each of them meets with 12 coaches a few times during the season. The coaches receive the concrete support they need and help in developing their coaching skills. 
The goal of Fortum Tutor is to give the 
coaches the tools and skills they need for inspiration to continue coaching over the long term and to develop their skills. 
The programme started in 2009 and will 
have an impact on more than 10,000 children and their families around Finland. Fortum funds the programme, while the responsibility for the content belongs to the Football Association of Finland. The primary target group is the coaches of children younger than 12. Children under 12 are at the most susceptible age in terms of learning the fundamentals of the sport, and therefore need an inspiring coach to support them. Football professionals  
helping junior teams
109
(2%)FORTUM’S SUPPORT FOR SOCIETY 
IN 2010 BY TARGET, 1,000 euros
Other
408(9%)
Sports2,399(53%)
Environment1,071(24%)Culture
Children and youth517(12%)Support for society
Fortum supports organisations and com ­
munities working for the common good 
in the countries where it operates. The goal is for sponsorships to be mutually beneficial. Collaboration in research and development projects with Nordic uni ­
versities in particular is significant. 
In 2010 Fortum’s support for these 
kinds of projects totalled about EUR 5.2 million, of which the share of grants awarded by the Fortum Foundation was about 650,000 euros. In addition to this, Fortum donated about EUR 2.3 million to universities in Finland. The single largest donation was awarded to Aalto University (EUR 3 million), half of which was distributed in 2010.The distribution of the support 
between different targets and by country is illustrated in the graphs below. The breakdowns do not include support to universities nor the scholarships, grants or other financial support awarded by Fortum Foundation. The purpose of the Fortum Foundation is to support research, education and development in natural, technical and economical sci ­
ences within the energy area. 
The amount to be donated to non ­
profit targets is decided by Fortum’s Board of Directors. Donations are not awarded for any kind of political activi ­
ties, religious organisations, authorities, municipalities or local administrations.
 
Russia
1,146
(25%)FORTUM’S SUPPORT FOR SOCIETY 
IN 2010 BY COUNTRY, 1,000 euros
Finland
1,340(30%)
Sweden1,579(35%)Norway
27
(1%)Poland412(9%)29 EcOnOMic RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Diminishing 
natural resources, growing environ­mental problems and the rising price of fuel are increasing electricity’s relative share of total energy consumption. With electricity replacing other energy use, the total energy need and emissions are decreasing.OF FORTUM’S 
ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION IN EUROPE IS CO
2-FREE86 %
MEGaTREnD:
GROWinG RElaTivE 
ROlE OF ElEcTRiciTy Environmental impacts related to the production and 
distribution of energy are created in the different phases of the production chain: fuel procurement, refining, storage and transportation, energy production processes and distribution, and waste handling. Major environmental issues in the energy sector are climate change, acidification and the effects on water systems and biodiversity. Responsible management of environmental issues and environmentally-benign energy products and solutions are Fortum’s strengths.
Fortum’s electricity and heat production 
is based on a diverse range of energy sources. In 2010 the shares of different energy sources were: natural gas 40%, hydropower 18%, nuclear power 18%, coal 10%, biofuels 6% and other sources 8%. 
In 2010 66% of Fortum’s electricity 
production was carbon dioxide ­free. The 
corresponding figure in Europe was 86%. OAO Fortum’s production in Russia is based entirely on fossil fuels (natural gas 95% and coal 5%). In 2010 renewable energy sources 
accounted for 35% of Fortum’s electricity production and 18% of its heat production.
Carbon dioxide emissions from 
energy production are reviewed in more detail on pages 36 – 43. 
Energy production and transmission 
impact the environment at all phases – from the building of the infrastructure to the end use of the energy product. The environmental impacts of the different production forms are described in the illustration on the next page.Fortum’s  
responsibility for 
the environmentFORTUM SUST ainabili Ty REPORT  2010  31
Kuvateksti tähän lorem ipsum dolor amet
Impacts of energy production and use
cliMa TE
Carbon dioxide emis-
sions from fossil fuels and peat change the climate. Hydro, nuclear, wind and solar power production do not cause direct carbon dioxide emissions. The use of bioenergy is CO
2-neutral.HEalTH anD S aFETy
Flue-gas emissions may have an impact on air quality and health. The fuel used in nuclear power plants is radioactive. Nuclear power plant radia-tion has no impact on human health or nature, in normal use. WaTER S ySTEMS
Cooling waters increase the tempera-ture of water systems locally, while heat pumps cool water systems used as a heat source. Small amounts of impurities escape from production plants into water systems. Hydropower regula-tion has an impact on water flows and surface levels and may impact fishing and recreational use.  OTHER EnviROn MEnT
Flue-gases contain some impurities (SO
2 
and NO x) that cause 
acidification and eutrophication, and small amounts of heavy metals. Produc-tion and mainte-nance creates e.g. ash, gypsum, scrap metal and waste oils.  Production plants have impacts on the visual landscape and land use.  In the production phase 
cliMa TE
The use of biomass reduces carbon sinks unless renewal is managed. Fossil fuels are used in mining operations and in the collection of biomass and generate green-house gases.HEalTH anD S aFETy
Mining operations are associated with health and safety risks for workers and local resi-dents. WaTER S ySTEMS
Hydropower produc-tion could impact biodiversity and the fishing and recreational use of water systems.  Impurities from fuel mines and peat bogs could be released into water systems.OTHER EnviROn MEnT
Fossil fuels and uranium are exhaustible natural resources, but also the supply of renewable energy, like biomass and hydropower, is limited. Mining operations and the draining of peat bogs has a local impact on soil, ground water and the landscape. Acquiring biomass could weaken biodiversity and the visual landscape. The use of waste for energy saves natural resources and reduces the load on landfills.    
At the energy source cliMa TE
Natural gas pipelines leak some methane, which is a greenhouse gas. Transports by ship and roadway and the pumping of natural gas use fossil fuels, which generate greenhouse gases.HEalTH anD S aFETy
Coal handing may cause adverse effects on the local environ-ment and workers.WaTER S ySTEMS
Transporting fuels via waterways involves risks like oil spills. In fuel handlingHEalTH anD S aFETy
Uninterrupted energy distribution safeguards a 
functioning society. The electric and magnetic fields in the immediate vicinity of power lines and transformers could impact health. EnviROn MEnT
Building and maintenance of above-ground power lines impact nature, land use and the visual landscape.In electricity and heat distribution 
cliMa TE
As electricity and district heat replace less effi-cient energy forms, the impact on the climate is reduced.EnviROn MEnT anD HEalTH
Electricity is a requisite for a functioning and safe society. Used instead of small-scale heat produc-tion, district heat reduces local environmental impacts, like the health-harmful particle emis-sions.
cliMa TE
Fossil fuels used in transportation generate greenhouse gases. Landfills release methane emissions.HEalTH anD S aFETy
Health and safety risks are related to the handling of hazardous and radioactive waste.WaTER S ySTEMS
Impurities from land-fills or ash-dumping areas may be released into water systems.OTHER EnviROn MEnT
Produced as a by-product, the reuse of ash and 
gypsum reduces the amount of waste going into landfills and the need for natural materials. Landfills and dumping areas have impacts on the visual landscape and land use, and could release impurities into the soil and groundwater. The use of waste for energy saves natural resources and reduces the load on landfills.
In the handling of waste and by ­products In the use of electricity and heat 1) Additionally, two INES-1 incidents at the Loviisa power plantCertified environmental 
management
Fortum’s environmental management 
is based on the company’s sustainability approach, sustainability policy, environ ­
mental principles, biodiversity guide ­
lines, commitment to the UN Global Compact, and the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management systems.
Fortum’s environmental targets 
and performance 
Fortum’s Group-level environmental 
targets are related to carbon dioxide emissions, energy efficiency (since 2011) and environmental management system certification. Fortum’s Group-level tar ­
gets are presented on page 8. In addition, the divisions have defined their own 
DivisionSignificant environmental non-  
compliances and permit violations Fires Leaks >100 litres
Power (15 6 1
Heat 2 9 8
ESD 0 0 4
Russia 14 1 0
Corporate 0 1 0
Fortum total 21 17 13EnviROnMEnTal nOn-c OMP lianc ES by DiviSiOn  2010Indicator Goal Result 2010 Remarks
Specific CO 2 emissions 
from power generation 
in the EU, five-year  
average (g/kWh)<80 g/kWh by 2020 69 g/kWh Exceptionally cold winter increased coal use.
Specific CO
2 emissions 
from heat production in the EU (g/kWh)A reduction of at least 10% in each country from 2006 to 20205% reduction from 2006 Total energy production target replaces this target as of 2011.
Climate target in Russia Reduction in  
emissions and improvement in energy efficiencyTotal and specific emis -
sions have increased in 2008-2010. Energy efficiency measures initiated.Growth in use of coal increased emissions. Total energy production target replaces this target as of 2011.
Degree of ISO 14001 certification (%)100% in the EU area by the end of 2010. 100% of OAO For -
tum’s operations by the end of 2012. 98% in the EU area Certification in 2010 for Power 
Division’s Lakeside operations. Recertification of Power Divi -
sion’s Nordic operations and Heat Division’s operations in Finland, Poland and Scandinavia. Target for Heat Division opera -
tions in Latvia, Tarto and Pärnu by the end of 2011.ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS AND RESULTS 2010 The goal of John Nurminen Foundation’s 
Clean Baltic Sea project is to reduce eutrophication of the Baltic Sea by decreasing municipal wastewater-based phosphorous discharges into the sea by 2,500 tonnes a year. Additionally, the pro -
ject aims to improve tanker safety and to reduce the risk for oil spills. 
In 2008 Fortum entered into a four-year 
agreement to support the Clean Baltic Sea project. For Fortum it is important that the Foundation is working on significant pro -
jects that quickly reduce environmental impacts and aim for tangible and measur -
able results.The first targets of the eutrophication project were St. Petersburg’s wastewater treatment plants. The project goal was an annual reduction of 1,000 tonnes of phos -
phorus; the goal was achieved by the end of 2010. Now the efforts will be focused on Poland, the origin of a third of the phosphorous load ending up in the Baltic Sea. The aim is to reduce the amount of phosphorous coming from wastewater treatment plants by 1,000 tonnes a year. The project is being implemented in col -
laboration with the Swedish Baltic Sea 2020 Foundation and Polish cities. Clean Baltic Sea – for everyone 
environmental goals related to their 
respective business.
The achievement of the environ ­
mental targets is monitored through monthly, quarterly and annual report ­
ing. The key performance indicators are specific carbon dioxide emissions, the advancement of ISO 14001 certifica ­
tion, leaks of more than 100 litres into the environment, significant permit violations and environmental non ­
compliances.
There are no numerical Group-level 
goals set for environmental non ­compli ­
ances; the divisions set their own goals, which are reviewed in the Group’s envi ­
ronment, health and safety (EHS) net ­
work. Environmental non ­compliances 
and permit violations are presented in the table below.34 EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010   Read more about the environmental 
impacts of production forms at 
www.fortum.com/sustainability Energy use in buildings accounts for about 
40% of the energy consumption in the Nordic countries. Residential heating is the single biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions from households. The real-time monitoring of household electricity consumption through smart meters and feeding of electricity generated with the solar panels on the building into the grid are part of the energy-effi  cient urban living envisioned by Fortum. 
At the foundation of this vision is a smart 
grid that connects electricity producers and consumers to each other. It is impor-tant that energy effi  ciency is taken into consideration already in the initial phase of construction and that solutions are designed for residents to decrease their own carbon footprint.
Fortum is developing solutions for sustain-
able urban living at several sites. In the Royal Seaport district in Stockholm, Swe-den, the goal is to be entirely free of fossil fuels by 2030. Another goal is that by 2025 the buildings in the area generate more electricity than they consume.
In Finland Fortum is collaborating with 
Skanska in constructing As. Oy Espoo Adju-tantti, a residential building in the Mäkkylä area of Espoo. The new technology related to smart grids will provide Adjutantti resi-dents with better opportunities to monitor their energy consumption and make it more effi  cient.
In Espoo, Fortum is participating in the Eco 
Urban Living project developing an eco-logical living environment in which tighter environmental standards are integrated into urban planning. Electric motoring is a central component of the project.    A pioneer in 
future urban living 
The most signifi  cant permit viola-
tion in 2010 was the Chelyabinsk CHP­1 
plant’s exceeding of waste water dis­charge limits (12 incidents) for which OAO Fortum was fi  ned 16,400 euros. 
In hydropower production, the 
regulation permit conditions included in the water permits stipulate the water levels and fl  ows in detail. Deviations from these permit conditions could not be avoided in 2010. A total of four signifi  -cant non­compliances occurred at For­tum’s plants in Sweden: in Vässin koski, Brunnshult, Sävenfors and Brättne. The permit deviations were mainly due to equipment failures or exceptional natu­ral conditions. 
Two INES
 level­1 incidents(1 occurred 
in 2010 at the Loviisa nuclear power plant: A small amount of radioactive liquid got into the plant’s air ventilation duct and, in conjunction with fuel trans­port in the plant area, material exposed to radiation was found outside the safety zone. The incidents did not have impacts on safety or on the environment.
EHS action plan in Russia
Fortum’s target in Russia is to bring environmental­, occupational health­ and safety­related management system and performance closer to the level of the plants in Europe. A comprehensive EHS action plan for 2009 – 2015 guides the development of operations and the target­setting. The implementation of the plan is monitored by a separate steering group. An assessment of EHS activities was conducted in Russia by a third party in spring 2010. The results of the assess­ment were consistent with the previously identifi  ed development potentials (e.g. boosting risk assessment effi  ciency). 
In 2010 in Russia a process aiming 
for ISO 14001 certifi  cation was launched, an environmental impact assessment was conducted, training needs were defi  ned, training for supervisors was arranged and a detailed review of the waste generated by the operations was carried out. Targets for 2011 include e.g. performing a preliminary audit and implemention of improvement measures so that certifi  cation would be possible at the end of the year. 
Other environmental targets for 2011 
include reduction of identifi  ed environ-mental impacts and non­compliances, implementation of a new waste man­agement model, reduction of particle and SO
2 emissions and development of 
reporting. 
In 2010 the Argayash and Chely­
abinsk coal-fi  red plants started using a better grade of coal (higher thermal value, lower ash content). The change is expected to reduce the particle and sul­phur dioxide emissions of the plants. 
1) INES, International Nuclear Event Scale, is a 
classifi  cation scale used by the International Atomic Energy Agency for nuclear plant incidents and nuclear accidents; level 0 means no safety signifi  cance and level 7, the highest level, is a major accident.FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 EnviROnMEnTal RESPOnSibiliTy  35   Long-term aspiration: CO 2-free 
power and heat company (1
Mitigating climate change is an impor ­
tant part of Fortum’s strategy. The most 
important measure in curbing climate change is increasing CO
2­free energy pro ­
duction. Fortum’s long ­term aspiration is 
to be a CO 2­free power and heat company. 
To achieve this, Fortum is continuously developing its energy production. In 2010 Fortum drafted a Roadmap to a CO
2­free 
future (read more on pp. 40 – 43).
Fortum’s emissions have increased in 
the past three years, and both total and specific emissions will continue to grow in the near future. This is primarily due to the implementation of the extensive investment programme based mainly on natural gas in Russia.
Measures to reduce CO 2 emissions
Reducing emissions is achieved by increasing the use of energy sources with low or zero emissions and by improving energy efficiency. In line with its strategy, Fortum is focusing on nuclear and hydro power and on energy-efficient combined heat and power (CHP) production.
Emissions trading and the use of 
Kyoto mechanisms are also important climate actions at Fortum (read more on pp. 27  – 28). 
Capacity upgrade programmes 
are under way at Fortum’s co ­owned 
Oskarshamn (Fortum’s share 43%) and Forsmark (23%) nuclear power plants in Sweden. Fortum’s share of the planned additional capacity is about 290 MW. The capacity upgrade and modernisation projects proceeded in 2010, but commis­sioning the additional capacity has been delayed. Fortum is helping to resolve the problems related with the commission ­
ing by utilising the know ­how gained in 
the modernisation of Finnish nuclear power plant units. In the upcoming years Fortum’s nuclear power capacity in Fin ­
land will grow by about 400 MW with the commissioning of the Olkiluoto 3 plant. 
Hydropower refurbishment projects 
were completed at Montta, Finland, and at Långströmmen, Frykfors and Höljes, Sweden. The annual additional energy from these plants is about 20 GWh. Fortum’s hydropower refurbishment programme will increase electricity pro ­
duction capacity by 10 – 20 MW per year 
by 2015. 
CHP plants that utilise partly biofuel 
for energy production were commis­sioned in Częstochowa, Poland, and in Pärnu, Estonia. A biomass­ fuelled heat ­
ing plant was commissioned in Hanko, Finland. 
Fortum made investment decisions 
on a biomass- and waste-fired CHP plant in Klaipeda, Lithuania, and a new waste ­
fired unit in Brista, Sweden. The Klai ­
peda plant is the first waste-fired plant in the Baltic Rim area. The target at the Värtan plant in Sweden is to increase the share of renewable energy sources from 45% today to 70% by 2015. According to the preliminary plans, the plant will commission a unit using bio ­oil, among 
other fuels. Carbon dioxide emissions
70
60
50
40
20
1030
0
07 08 10 09ELECTRICITY GENERATION BY 
ENERGY SOURCE 2007–2010, TW h
  Other
  Peat
  Biofuels
  Coal
  Gas
  Nuclear
  Hydro60
50
40
20
1030
07 08 10 090HEAT PRODUCTION BY ENERGY SOURCE 2007–2010, TW h
  Other
  Peat
  Oil
  Waste
  Heat pumps and electricity
  Biofuels
  Coal
  Gas1) In this report, CO 2-free energy production refers to hydro, nuclear, wind, solar and wave power, which do not 
generate emissions in the production phase, and the use of biomass energy and the thermal energy generated by 
heat pumps from ground, water system or waste heat.   Read more about CO 2 emissions reduction at www.fortum.com/sustainability36 EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 In August 2010 Fortum announced 
its acquisition of a 40% share in one of 
Europe’s biggest wind power projects, in Blaiken in North Sweden. The onshore wind farm’s capacity is 250 MW and the plan is to build the farm in phases by 2015. In Finland Fortum has five onshore wind power projects under planning: Bergö (15 MW), Kuolavaara-Keulakkopää (54 MW), Kalajoki (60 MW), Joukhais ­selkä (60 MW) and Ii (24 MW). Addition ­
ally, plans for a wind power test farm are under way in Loviisa, Finland. 
Fortum and Seabased Industry 
received a favourable decision from the Swedish Energy Agency for investment support for a full ­scale wave energy 
project on the western coast of Sweden. The support requires EU approval. After completion, the 10 ­MW production plant will be the world’s biggest wave energy power plant. 
Along with the emissions reduction 
measures implemented at production plants, Fortum has worked to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions, or carbon foot ­
print, of its business travel and business properties since 2007. 
Cutting emissions by  
improving energy efficiency 
Energy efficiency is a key factor in energy production – from both an economic and environmental perspective. The aim in combustion ­based production is to 
utilise the fuel as efficiently as possible. CHP production is energy efficient and achieves an overall efficiency of up to 90%. CHP accounted for about 30% of 
200
150
100
50
0
06 07 08 09 10SPECIFIC EMISSIONS OF ELECTRICITY 
GENERATION2006–2010, gCO
2/kWh
  5-year average, EU
  2020 target (5-year av.), EU(1
  Fortum total, including Russia
  EU4184155189
107
64
41134
1)  Target adjusted at beginning of 2011 to 
cover next ﬁ  ve years.45
40
3035
2025
1015
5
0
06 07 08 09 10323
373
382 3
36
342SHARE OF RENEWABLE SOURCES IN 
ELECTRICITY GENERATION 2006–2010, % 
  Biofuels and other renewable sources
  Hydropower40
3035
2025
1015
5
0
06 07 08 09 10117317
268
6
15
107SHARE OF RENEWABLE SOURCES IN HEAT PRODUCTION 2006–2010, %
  Heat pumps and other renewable sources
  Biofuels250
200
150
100
50
0
08 07 06 09 10SPECIFIC EMISSIONS OF HEAT PRODUCTION 2006–2010, gCO
2/kWh
  2020 target, EU(1
  Fortum total, including Russia
  EU189 187184177180205213205
1)  Target was replaced with speciﬁ  c 
emissions of total production target as of 2011.FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy 37   Fortum’s total electricity production in 
2010 and about 70% of heat production. 
Fortum’s primary energy consump­
tion in 2010 was 166 TWh, of which indirect energy consumption was 7 TWh. Indirect energy includes the electricity, heat and steam acquired from elsewhere for own use or for production. More information about the energy use and calculation methods is available on For­tum’s web site.
The implementation of the energy 
analyses, training and technology measures related to Fortum’s 2008 – 2016 energy-effi  ciency programme continued in 2010. The goal of the programme is to improve energy effi  ciency in power plants in Sweden, Finland, and Great Britain by 600 GWh per year. The main focus is on improving power plant effi  -ciency and on capacity upgrades of CO
2­
free production. About 30 projects will be implemented every year. Among the energy-effi  ciency improvement projects implemented in 2010 were hydropower refurbishment projects, the Ecotuning project at the Kauttua power plant, and a project to boost effi  ciency of the Inkoo and Meri­Pori power plants’ own use of energy. 
Fortum is participating in the Euro­
pean electricity sector’s Energy Wisdom programme and reports about its projects that improve energy effi  ciency and reduce greenhouse gases to the programme. Read more: www.eurelectric.org. 
In 2010 Fortum and the Chely­
abinsk Region Administration signed a Memorandum of Understanding on extensive cooperation in the area of energy effi  ciency. The largest operation in the programme is the automation and upgrade of the Chelyabinsk district Fortum’s power plant in Joensuu has pro-
duced electricity and heat for the region for 25 years. The new 30 MW biomass-fuelled heating plant, commissioned in the second half of 2009, was built adjacent to the power plant to produce district heating. It replaces the oil-based production of smaller heat plants in the area. 
The heating plant signifi  cantly reduces the 
CO
2 and particle emissions and their envi-
ronmental impacts. The reduction in CO 2 
emissions is about 21,000 tonnes per year.
The heating plant uses forest chips and for-
est industry by-products acquired locally.
Acquiring the fuel also provides signifi  -
cant employment opportunities in area. The renewed fuel receiving system and storage area enable the use of diverse forest-based biofuel.New 
biomass-fuelled heating plant produces eco-friendly district heat
30
2025
15
10
5
0
06 07 08 09 10CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS 
2006–2010, M t CO2
  Russia
    Emissions not included in the emission 
trading in the EU
   Emissions under the Emission Trading 
Scheme in the EU7.70.5
13.8
9.71.0
14.6
7.20.6
9.8
10.50.5
9.80.6100
80
60
40
20
06 07 08 09 100668489
75
69SHARE OF CO2-FREE ELECTRICITY 
PRODUCTION 2006–2010, %heating system, which will reduce energy 
losses in the area by over 30% as well as signifi  cantly decrease fuel consumption and emissions. Fortum also intends to implement several technological improvements to increase the effi  ciency of heat and electricity production at its plants in the Chelyabinsk area. 
In December 2010 Fortum and the 
Federal State Organisation Russian Energy Agency also signed a Memo­randum of Understanding in the fi  eld of energy effi  ciency and innovations. According to the agreement, the parties will aim to strengthen their cooperation in combined power and heat production, the development of environmental issues and the advancement of energy-effi  cient technologies.  
In addition to improving the energy 
effi  ciency of energy production, Fortum aims to also improve the effi  ciency of electricity distribution by reducing distribution losses. Losses from grids in 2010 amounted to about 1.5 TWh. Close to 90% of the electricity acquired to com­pensate for the losses was CO
2­free. 
Climate-benign products and 
services 
Fortum is building a low­carbon society 
by offering products and services that can help mitigate climate change also in other sectors of society. 38 EnviROnMEnTal RESPOnSibiliTy  FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 In 2010 all electricity sold to residen­
tial customers in Finland was CO 2­free 
and was generated entirely by hydro­
power. For an additional fee, customers could also choose electricity produced entirely by wind power. The origin of electricity produced by hydropower and wind power is certifi  ed with the “Ekoen-ergia” eco­label by the Finnish Associa­tion for Nature Conservation or with a European guarantee of origin. In Sweden all Fortum’s customers with a Fortum 
The European Com-
mission is every year granting the European Green Capital award to a city that is most successful in climate issues. The fi  rst city to be granted the award was Stockholm in 2010. 
Fortum’s work in the production of district heat, district cooling and electricity has had a signifi  cant impact on Stockholm’s success – and the project is ongoing. Cur-rently 80% of the buildings in the city use Fortum’s district heat. The CO
2 emissions of Stockholm area heat 
production have decreased by more than 60% since the 1980s, thanks to the switch from individual house heating to district heating. Also the production of combined heat and power has been increased. In the same time period, the production of electricity and heat has more than dou-bled. Today nearly 80% of the fuel used is renewable or recycled material. 
Fortum is also helping to make transporta-
tion more eco-friendly. We are collabo-rating with the City of Stockholm in the Plug-in project, which is researching the use of electric vehicles, the recharging of batteries and the infrastructure required by electric vehicles.Stockholm – 
European Green Capital 2010
Enkel agreement automatically received 
Bra Miljöval eco­labelled electricity. Other residential customers received 100% CO
2­free electricity. In Sweden, cus­
tomers could choose electricity produced by hydropower or wind power for an additional fee. Also Fortum’s electricity products for business customers are CO
2­free. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
Fortum reports greenhouse gases related to its operations in accordance with the principles of the Greenhouse Gas proto-col recommended by the Global Report-ing Initiative (GRI). The reporting covers direct and indirect CO
2, CH 4, and N 2O 
emissions, categorised by scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3 emissions. 
Of Fortum’s greenhouse gas emis­
sions, 82% are direct CO
2 emissions 
(scope 1), which are generated when burning fossil fuels to produce electric­ity and heat. Additionally, the direct emissions include the CO
2 emissions 
of company cars. The share of indirect emissions from electricity, heat and steam purchased from outside sources (scope 2) is 0.3% of all greenhouse gas emissions. Indirect emissions from the production and transportation of fuels, from employee air travel and from the use of our products (scope 3), account for 18% of greenhouse gas emissions. 
The share of carbon dioxide of CO
2 
equivalent emissions is 88% and the share of other greenhouse gases (CH
4 
and N 2O) is about 12 per cent. 
  Read more about energy consumption at 
www.fortum.com/sustainability    30
25
20
10
515
0
08 09 10
  Scope 3 (other indirect emissions)
   Scope 2 (indirect emissions from 
purchased electricity and heat)
  Scope 1 (direct emissions)17.922.125.60.20.1
0.35.15.7
4.1DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS 2008–2010, Mt CO
2 equivalent
FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010 EnviROnMEnTal RESPOnSibiliTy  39   Climate change mitigation is one of the 
energy sector’s biggest challenges globally. The energy sector’s share of global CO
2 
emissions is 60 – 70%, and emissions will have to be reduced by 30 – 40% by 2030 in order to limit the rise in the earth’s temper-ature to 2°C compared to the pre-industrial level. By the middle of the century, an emissions reduction of as much as 80 – 90% will be necessary.
The effi  cient use and production of 
energy, CO
2-free energy production forms, 
and carbon capture and storage (CCS) are the energy sector’s key solutions for miti-gating climate change. Of these, according to the IEA, the biggest emissions reduction will be achieved by 2050 with energy effi  ciency.
Commitment to mitigating 
climate change 
Energy has a central role in building a low-
carbon future, and the energy sector has taken a proactive approach in addressing climate change mitigation and has formu-lated visions, shared goals and road maps to a low-carbon future. In 2009 Fortum and 60 other European electricity companies signed a declaration in which the sector aims for a carbon-neutral power supply by the middle of the century. Fortum’s long-term aspiration is to be a CO
2-free power 
and heat company.Emissions development 
within the next decade
Fortum’s CO 2 emissions were 25.3 million 
tonnes in 2010. Close to 60% of these 
originated from Russia, where energy production is based on fossil fuels, natural gas (95%) and coal (5%). Russia’s legisla-tive and political operating environment related to the climate issue differs signifi  -cantly from that of Europe. Fortum aims to actively develop the operating environ-ment related to better energy effi  ciency in Russia, thereby making it possible to reduce emissions. 
However, new capacity based on the 
decided investment programmes in Russia will increase Fortum’s annual emissions by about six million tonnes. Improvements in energy effi  ciency can reduce annual emis-sions by hundreds of thousands of tonnes. The commissioning of new capacity will increase Fortum’s specifi  c CO
2 emissions 
in Russia in the medium term. The current investment programme extends to 2014. Consequently, specifi  c CO
2 emissions of 
Fortum’s overall energy production are likely to grow during this period.
Fortum’s ongoing investment pro-
gramme in Europe focuses on nuclear and hydro power and on combined heat and power (CHP) production. The new produc-tion capacity in Europe is mainly CO
2-free. Emissions targets and 
emissions trading advance emissions reductions
Fortum has had separate targets for carbon 
dioxide emissions from electricity and heat production since 2007, and the emissions are reported quarterly. Target-setting was renewed in 2010 so that it now covers all of Fortum’s operating countries and 100% of direct emissions. The target has been defi  ned as specifi  c emissions from total energy production. A target was also set for energy effi  ciency. The company’s goals for the next fi  ve years, as fi  ve-year averages, are:
• S p e c i fi c  C O 2 emissions from power generation 
in the EU area: <80 g/kWh
• S p e c i fi c  C O 2 emissions from total energy pro-
duction <200 g/kWh
• Energy effi  ciency: total effi  ciency of combus-
tion: energy production divided by the primary energy of fuel input >70%
In the EU area 90 – 95% of Fortum’s emis-
sions are included in the EU’s emissions trading scheme (ETS). It is a cap-and-trade scheme with a lowering cap for emissions, so the ETS achieves emissions reductions and the price of EU emissions allowances encourages investments in low-carbon and emissions-free energy production. As a general rule, there are no free emissions allowances for electricity production in the 2013 – 2020 period. There are derogations only for plants in Poland and the Baltic countries. The amount of free emissions allowances for heat production will also sig-nifi  cantly decrease. Fortum’s free emissions allowances for the 2013 – 2020 period will be 30 – 40% of the corresponding amount for the 2008 – 2012 period.
Long-term aspiration for a 
CO 2-free energy system
Fortum believes that the future energy 
system will be based on CO 2-free electricity 
production and energy effi  ciency. The energy system will gradually shift from today’s tra-ditional power plant technologies based on limited energy sources and fuel combustion to production forms based on inexhaustible and emissions-free solar energy. 
In addition to direct solar electricity 
and heat, the solar economy also includes inexhaustible, renewable and emissions-free solar-based energy forms, such as hydro, wave and wind energy as well as geothermal heat and carbon neutral bioenergy. Solar energy technology is advancing quickly, and the use of solar energy for small-scale solutions is already cost-effi  cient in many countries that have plenty of sunshine. In the solar economy, electricity is produced in places where the conditions are the most favourable in terms of the primary energy source, Roadmap to a CO 2­free future
Fortum’s long-term aspiration is to be a carbon dioxide-free power and heat company. In 2010 
Fortum drafted a Roadmap to a CO 2-free future. The Roadmap describes Fortum’s vision of the future 
energy system as well as Fortum’s actions and development work to achieve its aspiration.40 EnviROnMEnTal RESPOnSibiliTy  FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010   and it is stored and transferred even long 
distances. The development of smart grids is a prerequisite.
However, changes are slow in the capital-
intensive energy industry, and the transition towards the solar economy will happen in phases. Signifi  cant interim solutions along the development path towards the pure solar economy include traditional emissions-free production forms, like nuclear energy and high-effi  ciency technologies, like gas- and multifuel-based CHP. In addition enhanced energy effi  ciency plays a key role. Traditional power plant technologies are likely to be needed still for a long time, and they can lead to signifi  cant improvements in energy effi  ciency and emissions reductions. Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is also a necessary interim solution.
Fortum’s strategy is consistent with its 
vision of the future energy system, and Fortum’s business development is based on CO
2-free nuclear and hydro power and 
on energy-effi  cient CHP production. The ongoing investment programme in Europe focuses on these technologies, and signifi  -cant growth is expected in these strategic areas. Fortum is increasing the use of local fuels, like waste-derived fuels and forest biomass, in CHP production.
Research and development activities 
are focusing on advanced CHP and nuclear power technologies and on the most promis-ing solar-economy energy solutions (e.g. solar and wave power). Fortum is developing new biofuels (e.g. pyrolysis oil) for use at CHP and heating plants.
Implementing the company’s strategy 
will gradually lead to the long-term aspira-tion of being a CO
2-free company. However, 
progress will take time because investment cycles are long. The fundamentals of the energy system will not change signifi  cantly during the next 10 – 20 years, even though new innovations will most likely be adopted. Along with technology development, changes in energy markets and energy policy are central. Social and political accept-ance, which ensures a stable, consistent and market-driven investment environment, is an absolute requirement for the new invest-ments needed to achieve climate targets. 
Enabler of a low-carbon society
In addition to changes in energy produc-tion, mitigating climate change requires signifi  cant emissions reductions in other industry sectors. Fortum wants to build a low-carbon society in collaboration with other sectors of society. Fortum believes that electricity will have a signifi  cant role in tomorrow’s society and that it will replace the use of traditional fuels. 
Fortum is developing solutions to 
reduce the climate impacts of energy use in housing, transportation and electricity distribution. Tomorrow’s eco-cites will be based on smart grid solutions, eco-effi  -cient construction, electric transportation and sustainable heating solutions. Already today smart meters are helping consumers monitor electricity consumption and con-serve electricity.
New types of energy-effi  ciency 
services, smart grids, distributed energy systems and large-scale infrastructure for recharging electric vehicles are the cornerstones of the sustainable energy system Fortum is building. Fortum is tak-ing an active role in realising sustainable cities and in developing the necessary technologies. Fortum offers its customers eco-effi  cient heating and cooling solutions and climate-benign electricity and heat products.   
The next spread “Towards an emissions-free future” 
describes Fortum’s vision of the future energy system and Fortum’s actions and development work to achieve its aspiration.FORTUM SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010  EnviROnMEnTal RESPOnSibiliTy  41   Towards an           emissions­free future
Towards an           emissions­free future
Towards an           emissions­free future
The traditional energy system is based primari-
ly on limited energy sources and the com-bustion of fuels and applies traditional power plant technologies. Production is adjusted with load-following and peak-load power plants based on electricity demand. Fuels are often transported long distances from the site of sourcing to the energy production plants. The produced energy is transmitted relatively short distances from the production plant to the point of usage. The energy production effi  cien-cy – energy produced divided by the primary energy of fuel input – of condensing power plants is only about 40%, but the effi  ciency of combined heat and power production (CHP) can be as high as 90%. The carbon dioxide emissions caused by production depend on the carbon content of each fuel source.
Fortum uses a diverse range of energy sources in its production. In 2010 the shares of different energy sources were: natural gas 40%, hydropower 18%, nuclear power 18%, coal 10%, biofuels 6%, oil 2%, waste fuels 1%, peat 1%, and heat pumps, wind power and other sources totalling 4%. In 2010 electricity produced at CHP plants accounted for some 30% of the total electricity production and CHP heat accounted for some 70% of total heat production. Fortum’s total effi  ciency of combustion was 68% in 2010.
TRaDiTiOnal EnERGy PRODUcTiOn:
EXHaUSTiblE FUElS anD PRODUcTiOn THaT bURDEnS THE EnviROnMEnT
The technology used today already boosts the 
effi  cient use of resources and reduces emis-sions. In this transition phase, the emphasis is on the traditional emissions-free production forms, like hydro and nuclear energy, and the high-effi  ciency technologies, like gas and multi-fuel CHP, which increase effi  ciency and decrease emissions. Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is also a central technology in the transition phase. Energy effi  ciency – both in production and in energy use – is emphasised. The role of new, renewable energy forms in production will still be minor in the near future: with the exception of hydropower, other pure solar-economy production forms are still in the development phase and will require signifi  cant support from society. Changes in the energy production system are slow, and the transition towards an emissions-free future will happen gradually. 
Fortum’s strategy is based on strong know-how in nuclear and hydro power and in CHP production. More than 80% of Fortum’s electricity production in Europe is already based on nuclear and hydro power. Fortum is among the world’s leading experts in CHP production and the fourth biggest heat producer. The company uses a wide range of fuels, and the bio-based and other local fuels, such as waste, will become more signifi  cant in the years ahead. Fortum is developing multi-fuel CHP solutions that enable the use of a variety of fuels. Tracking the development of new renewable energy sources and increasing our own competence is an important part of Fortum’s research and development activities.
TRanSiTiOn PHaSE: EnERGy-EFFiciEnT, lOW-EMiSSiOn PRODUcTiOn FORMSTowards an           emissions­free future
The future energy system – the solar economy 
– is based on a completely emissions-free and inexhaustible energy source. In the solar economy, energy from the sun is utilised either directly as solar electricity or heat, or indirectly as hydro, wave, wind and bioenergy, and geo-thermal heat. The future energy system has an important role in securing the availability of natural resources for future generations. According to the IEA, the signifi  cance of electri-city in tomorrow’s society will grow, and it will replace the use of tradi tional fuels. In the solar economy, the electricity load adapts to produc-tion. Real isation of the future energy system requires the development of smart grids.
Fortum’s mission is to create energy that improves life for present and future gener-ations. Fortum is researching technologies that might be future breakthroughs in ener-gy production and is participating in several projects to develop solar-economy techno-logy. Fortum believes that tomorrow’s eco-cities will be based on smart grid solutions, eco-effi  cient construction, electric transpor-tation and sustainable heating solutions, and is participating in the development of them.
SOlaR EcOnOMy: inEXHaUSTiblE anD EMiSSiOnS-FREE, 
SOlaR-baSED PRODUcTiOn FORMS
Towards an           emissions­free future
Towards an           emissions­free future
directly as solar electricity or heat, or indirectly 
as hydro, wave, wind and bioenergy, and geo-
thermal heat. The future energy system has 
an important role in securing the availability 
of natural resources for future generations. 
According to the IEA, the signifi  cance of electri-
Emissions to air
Energy production’s most significant 
environmental impact is created in the combustion of fuels in power and heat ­
ing plants. Greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, generated in the combustion process contribute to climate change. Particles and heavy met ­
als are harmful to nature and also pose a health risk. Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides have an impact on acidification.
In 2010 Fortum’s energy production 
emitted 36,700 tonnes of nitrogen oxides (NO
x), 20,700 tonnes of sulphur dioxide 
(SO 2) and 16,800 tonnes of particle emis ­
sions.
Sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and 
particle emissions from Fortum’s Euro ­
pean production plants have decreased significantly in recent decades as a result of advancements in flue-gas cleaning technology and combustion process control. About 55% of the flue-gas emis ­
sions (SO
2 and NO x) and about 90% of the 
particle emissions originated from the Russian operations. The most signifi ­
cant source of particle emissions, 9,400 tonnes in 2010, is the Argayash plant in Russia. The EHS action plan has esti ­
mated the potential for reducing particle emissions at the plant to be as high as 80%. The fastest improvement measure is to switch to a better grade of coal, the use of which started in 2010. The change received Fortum’s Innovation Award in January 2011.
Waste waters and emissions  
to water systems
Energy production impacts on water systems are mainly caused by thermal load, the release of solids, and nitrogen, phosphorus and heavy ­metal emissions. 
In 2010 Fortum used a total of 2,746 mil ­
lion cubic meters (m
3) of water, of which 
the majority, 2,436 million m3, was used 
as cooling water. The thermal load on the water systems was 82 petajoules (PJ), of which the Loviisa nuclear power plant accounted for 54 PJ. The thermal load on water systems is reduced by utilising thermal energy whenever possible. This also reduces the need for cooling water.
In Russia the wet method is used to 
pump ash from coal-fired power plants into ash basins. Waste waters from the basins are directed into water systems. The water consumption is quite large and the impurity concentration permit levels set for the Chelyabinsk CHP ­1 plant 
were exceeded 12 times during the year. To correct the situation, a closed water circulation system was installed in 2010 to recirculate the water (which is used to transport the ash) back to the power plant. The impacts of the change on waste water emissions will be monitored in 2011, and a decision on any additional improvements needed will be made based on the outcome.
Emissions to water totalled about 449 
tonnes: 440 tonnes of solids, 2.1 tonnes of oil, 5.8 tonnes of nitrogen, and 1.2 tonnes of phosphorus. Of the solids emissions, 70% were at the Meri ­Pori plant; the rea ­
son for the exceptionally large emissions was an accumulation of solid material in the delay basin.
  Read more about the power plants’ emissions at  
www.fortum.com/sustainability
40
35
2530
20
15
10
5
0SO2, NOx AND PARTICLE EMISSIONS 2008–2010, 1,000 tonnes
  2010
  2009
  2008SO2 NO x Particles16.720.729.536.7
16.6 16.8
10.631.4
14.625
20
1015
5
0SO2, NOx AND PARTICLE EMISSIONS BY COUNTRY 2010, 1,000 tonnes
  Particles
  NO x
  SO 2Russia Finland Other countries11.315.5
7.4
0.6 2.0 0.7 3.421.3
12.0Emissions to air and water
40
35
2530
20
15
10
5
0SO2, NOx AND PARTICLE EMISSIONS 2008–2010, 1,000 tonnes
  2010
  2009
  2008SO2 NO x Particles16.720.729.536.7
16.6 16.8
10.631.4
14.625
20
1015
5
0SO2, NOx AND PARTICLE EMISSIONS BY COUNTRY 2010, 1,000 tonnes
  Particles
  NO x
  SO 2Russia Finland Other countries11.315.5
7.4
0.6 2.0 0.7 3.421.3
12.0FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy 44   Fortumin kalanviljelylaitoksilta  
lohta ja taimenta
Solids (t) Oil (t) Nitrogen (t) Phosphor (t) Heavy metals 
(kg) Chemical 
oxygen 
demand (t) Biological 
oxygen 
demand (t) Thermal 
load (PJ)
2010 4 4 0    2.1   5.8   1.2   3 4 0    368   4 . 7    82   
2009 205 10.5   7.5   0.9   Not available 120   4 . 9    73   
2008 227   3.8   5.5   0 . 4    Not available 108   4 . 7    67   EMISSIONS TO WATER 2008−2010Hydropower is a renewable and efficient 
energy source. However, hydropower production impacts water flow and the ecosystems of flora and fauna dependent on the aquatic environment. By supporting biodiversity and by improving the habitats for fish in particular, the environmental impacts of hydropower can be reduced.
Fortum’s fish farm near the Ljusnan 
hydropower plant raises salmon and trout. Sigvard Uppman (pictured) is the one in charge of the farm’s operations.
Why do we have a fish farm in Ljusne 
Strömmar?
Hydropower on the Ljusnan river has 
changed the conditions in fish habitats. The naturally flowing water has become a reservoir and fish can no longer spawn and reproduce as they used to. Our new facility is in a good location and we don’t have to transport the fish. They get from here to the sea on their own.
What are the year’s most important 
events in fish farming?
The male and female fish needed for 
breeding are captured in July  – August. The 
fish can remain in the pools until they are ready to spawn. In October we strip the eggs from the female fish and fertilise them with the milt from the male fish. About 500,000  – 700,000 baby fish are hatched 
annually. In April  – May we release about 
200,000 young salmon and trout, or about 25 tonnes of fish, into the water system.100 years of fish farming Impacts on nature
Environmental impacts of 
hydropower
Renewable and emissions ­free hydro ­
power has an important role in reducing 
the total environmental impacts of For ­
tum’s electricity production. Hydropower is also necessary as regulating power for the electricity production system. On the other hand, hydropower affects the aquatic environment and other use of water systems. The construction of hydropower and its production trans ­
form the natural conditions of water systems through the fluctuations in flow and water levels. 
Permit conditions for power plants 
and lake regulation define the limits for water level and flow variations. The per ­
mits also define obligations to prevent and compensate for other environmental impacts. In addition, in Sweden and Finland Fortum has voluntarily worked with authorities and local interest groups to agree on and implement addi ­
tional restrictions and other projects to improve the environment and the use of the water systems (read more on p. 46).
An example of the voluntary meas ­
ures in Finland are the target values for water levels set for the regulated lakes of the Oulujoki river system, values that are more stringent than required in the permit, and the Oulujoki multiple use agreement. Oulujoki is being restored based on the needs of other users of the river system, like fishermen and residents along the shores. In 2010 the Iso Kauvansaari flow water habitat in Vaalankurkku was restored, and plan ­
ning of the fish passes along the Oulujoki river continued. The fish pass project continued the stocking tests of juvenile salmon, studied the downstream migra ­
tion of the juvenile salmon and started a three-year fish restoration project in the Utosjoki river. The restoration plan for the Nimisjärvi dam was completed at the turn of the year.
In Sweden Fortum has set volun ­
tary target values for water levels, the so­called soft limits, in several water 
systems. These water systems have been selected on the basis of social and envi ­
ronmental values, such as fishing and recreational use (read more on p. 46).
Impacts on biodiversity
Fortum’s impacts on biodiversity are often local and related to the use of land and water areas, for example to hydropower production and electricity distribution. Indirect impacts arise e.g. from the acquisition of biomass, peat and other fuels.
Fortum’s biodiversity guidelines set 
the principles for taking biodiversity into consideration. In addition to legislative requirements, Fortum protects biodi ­
versity through a variety of voluntary measures.
Fortum’s Environmental Fund sup ­
ports projects that reduce the adverse environmental impacts from hydro ­
power production and support biodiver ­
sity in built ­up water systems.
45 EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Fortum’s Environmental Fund supports pro -
jects that reduce the adverse environmental 
impacts of hydropower production and sup -
port biodiversity in built-up water systems. 
A unique, natural diversion channel was built 
in Eldbäcken, Sweden, to bypass a power plant. A diverse habitat for fish and fresh-water pearl mussels will be created in the channel. The project will be implemented together with Swedish universities during 2009  – 2013.
In 2010  – 2012 meadows and flood plain 
forests are being restored along the lower portion of the Dala river in Sweden.
The habitat for the trout population in 
Sweden’s Bulsjö river was improved by running more water in the river. The pro -
ject was implemented in 2004  – 2010 in col -
laboration with local fishermen, authorities and Tranås Energi. In Finland a project is under way to study migratory fish routes, smolt migration to the sea and success in fish restocking. The project is headed by the Finnish Game and Fisheries Research Institute in 2010 – 2013.
Enhancing the habitat for the salmon popu -
lation and the endangered fresh-water pearl mussel in the Mustionjoki river in Finland was studied in 2009 – 2010. 
Funds for Fortum’s Environmental Fund come from the sales of “Ekoenergia” eco-labelled electricity in Finland and Bra Miljöval-labelled electricity in Sweden. At the end of 2010 the fund had a total of EUR 1.6 million. The Fund’s targets of research are chosen in collaboration with national nature conservation organisations.Environmental fund promotes 
biodiversity
Wastes, by-products and recycling
The waste generated by energy produc ­
tion mainly consists of various kinds of 
ash, bottom slag and gypsum created as a by ­product of the desulphurisation 
process. About 803,000 tonnes of ash and 37,600 tonnes of gypsum were generated in 2010. About 36% of the ash was gener ­
ated at Finnish plants, 32% in Russia and 26% in Sweden. In Europe waste and by­products are utilised and recycled as 
efficiently as possible. In Russia ash is stored in basins because, beyond build ­
ing embankments for ash basins, it doesn’t have other usages, and the wet ash­handling makes utilisation more 
difficult. In 2010 the ash recycling rate at Fortum was 59% and gypsum 92%. 
All of the gypsum goes to the gyp ­
sum board industry. Fly ash was used in the construction material industry, as made-up ground and in backfilling mines. New solutions for the use of ash were developed in collaboration with dif ­
ferent parties. In 2010 a product devel ­
opment project was launched in which fly ash from the Meri-Pori power plant is further refined into ultrafine fly ash (UFFA), which can replace cement. This also reduces CO
2 emissions. In 2010 ash 
from biomass ­fuelled plants started to be 
used as forestry fertiliser in Finland. In Poland two agreements were made with the construction industry for utilisation of the ash from the Częstochowa power plant commissioned in 2010. 
Meri-Pori’s fly ash received the E-label 
in 2010, meaning it can be used as filler in asphalt. The REACH
(1 registration 
process for coal ash and mixed material ash and for gypsum was carried out in Finland at the end of November 2010. Remaining waste that can’t be 
utilised is deposited in landfills or intermediate storage. In 2010 about 328,000 tonnes of ash and 3,000 tonnes of gypsum were piled. The new Waste Tax Act that came into force in Finland in 2010 raises costs, thus increasing the pressure for utilisation. In Fortum’s view, the utilisation of by ­products should be 
promoted in every way e.g. as made ­up 
ground or in road construction.
Waste created in conjunction with 
the construction and retirement of power plants and distribution networks is handled in accordance with each country’s legislation. Waste volumes vary by year based on e.g. activities like power plant construction. About 1,250 tonnes of waste was generated in grid maintenance and construction; 63% of the waste was recycled and 37% ended up in landfills.
In 2010 Fortum’s operations gener ­
ated a total of 25,600 tonnes of waste (excluding gypsum and ash deposited in landfills), 11,700 tonnes of which was hazardous waste.
Final disposal of nuclear waste
In 2010 Fortum used 25 tonnes of uranium as fuel at the Loviisa nuclear power plant; this created a correspond ­
ing amount of high ­level radioactive 
nuclear waste. In addition, about 250 cubic meters of low ­ and intermediate ­
level radioactive waste was created in production.
According to Finnish legislation, the 
final disposal of nuclear waste created in Finland must remain in Finland and the power plant company is responsible for the nuclear waste management. The Loviisa nuclear power plant and Fortum’s Wastes and by ­products 46 EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 EUR million 2010 2009
Balance sheet items 
Nuclear power-related provisions 625 570
Share of State nuclear waste management fund 625 570
Legal liability and share of State nuclear waste fund
Nuclear waste management liability in  
accordance with Finland’s Nuclear Energy Act944 913
Fund target 886 830
Fortum’s share of State nuclear waste management fund 843 786NUCLEAR POWER-RELATED ASSETS  AND LIABILITIES  2009−2010600700800900
500
400
200
100300
0
08 09 10
  To landﬁ  ll
  Recycled
Reported based on the amounts leaving the 
plant.460
408467223328
190ASH HANDLING 2008–2010,
1,000  tonnes
6070
50
40
20
1030
0
08 09 10
  Hazardous waste
  To landﬁ  ll
  Recycled
Includes gypsum by-product. 
Reported based on the amounts leaving the plant.26.934.940.92.9
7.511.7WASTE HANDLING 2008–2010,
1,000  tonnes
8.88.311.3co­owned nuclear power plants have the 
world’s top class solutions for the final 
disposal of nuclear waste in Finland and Sweden. Low ­ and intermediate ­level 
nuclear waste is disposed of in the repos ­
itory built at Hästholmen in Loviisa. The expansion of the final disposal repository was launched in 2010. Additionally, a project was started to complement the handling systems for liquid waste. The aim is to complete the project by 2014.The final disposal of spent nuclear 
fuel from Fortum’s and TVO’s nuclear power plants is handled by Posiva Oy, established and owned by the companies. According to plans, highly radioactive spent fuel will be placed in Posiva Oy’s final disposal repository at Olkiluoto in Eurajoki. The ‘Onkalo’ research cave is currently under construction. In 2010 the excavation work progressed to the final disposal depth of 420 meters. The repository and the related encapsulation plant are expected to be ready for use in 2020.
In accordance with the updated 
Nuclear Energy Act, Fortum submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Employ ­
ment and the Economy at the end of June on the nuclear power liabilities of the Loviisa nuclear power plant. The amount of liability is based on a technical plan drafted every three years. As a result of the technical plan updated in 2010, the amount of legal liability increased, because the upcoming costs related to the intermediate storage and final dis ­
posal of spent nuclear fuel are expected to rise. The legal liability at the end of 2010 was EUR 944 million.
In Sweden Fortum participates in a 
final disposal project for nuclear waste through its holdings in Forsmarks Kraftgrupp AB (FKA) and OKG AB. The Swedish legislation for nuclear waste management liability is similar to Finn ­
ish legislation. Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Company (SKB) was established in Sweden to implement the final disposal of the spent nuclear fuel from the nuclear power plants cur ­
rently operating in Sweden. In 2010 SKB prepared to submit a permit application to authorities for the construction of a final disposal repository. SKB has been engaged in researching a technically reliable and economically feasible final disposal concept for more than 30 years. 
In Sweden provisions for nuclear 
waste management costs are made by paying fees into a fund based on the amount of electricity production. Fortum has given the Swedish Nuclear Waste Fund guarantees on behalf of FKA and OKG to cover its share of ownership. By decision of the Swedish Government, the total amount of guarantees decreased in June 2010 to EUR 287 million.
The nuclear power ­related provisions, 
legal liability and Fortum’s share of the Finnish Nuclear Waste Fund are pre ­
sented in the table below. Nuclear waste management liabilities are reviewed in more detail on pages 118–119 and 125 of Fortum’s Annual Report 2010.
1) REACH: EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy 47   The Saimaa ringed seal is one of the 
world’s most endangered seals. Fortum and the Finnish Association for Nature Con -
servation are long-time partners in work -
ing to protect the Saimaa ringed seals. 
Every year 20 – 30 Saimaa ringed seals die 
in fishing nets. Replacing fishing nets with 
fish traps is the fastest and most efficient way to protect the seals. Fortum organises fish trap swap events for different fishing co-operative members in the Saimaa basin. In return for a fisherman’s voluntary com -
mitment, we give them a high-quality fish trap. Close to 400 fishermen have traded in their fishing nets for a fish trap during the swap events organised by us in 2008 – 2010. 
The swap events will continue in 2011. 
The University of Eastern Finland is 
researching the issues that are important for the protection of Saimaa ringed seal. Fortum has supported this research pro -
gramme since 2007. So far, five GPS devices have been donated to the Saimaa ringed seal research team; the devices provide information on the movement of the seals. Switching to traps 
to protect Saimaa ringed seal
160
140
100120
60
40
2080
0100107151EHS EXPENSES 2008–2010, 
EUR million
  EHS operating costs
  EHS investments08 09 10Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risks and impacts are 
analysed regularly and measures are defined for them in conjunction with annual planning. Risk assessments are also made on a project-specific basis. Units with ISO 14001 certification man ­
age their environmental risks and their preparedness to operate in exceptional and emergency situations in compliance with the requirements of the standard. The sustainability assessment procedure is applied to all significant corporate acquisitions and to company invest ­
ments. 
Fortum has evaluated the liabilities 
relating to past operations and has made the necessary provisions. In 2010 the provisions for any future remedial costs concerning environmental damage amounted to a total of EUR 12 million.
Environmental, health and safety 
(EHS) expenditures
Fortum’s EHS expenditures are costs 
caused by measures that directly or indi ­
rectly reduce the environmental impacts of Fortum’s operations or improve opera ­
tional safety, regardless of whether the measures are mandatory based on legis ­
lation or permit conditions or whether they are voluntary.
EHS investments refer to investments 
that reduce the environmental impacts of Fortum’s operations or improve opera ­
tional safety.
In 2010 Fortum’s investments in 
environment and safety were a total of EUR 91 million (2009: EUR 61 million). The investments were mainly related to new CHP investments. Operating costs related to environment, health and safety were EUR 60 million (2009: EUR 46 million). Included in the costs are e.g. the use and maintenance of environmen ­
tal protection equipment and systems, emissions and environmental monitor ­
ing, decontamination of polluted soil, maintaining and developing biodiversity, development of management systems for EHS issues, research and development work related to improving the manage ­
ment of environmental impacts, and the necessary environmental impact assess ­
ment reports and permit applications. The figures are illustrative because the calculation principles for EHS expenses and investments are not completely uni ­
form throughout Fortum. 
Environmental risksFORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  EnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy 48   “Fortum has been producing electricity with 
nuclear power at Loviisa for over 30 years. The plant has operated reliably and safely, and its operations haven’t caused any harm or danger to the local residents or surroundings. The Loviisa power plant not only has a good safety level, it also has a high level of availability on an international scale; in 2010 the availability was 91.1%. Radioactive releases have been just a fraction of the limits set by authorities. The only noticeable environmental impact is the effect of warm cooling waters on the local waterways. The impacts on the waterways are local and they don’t have an impact on the condition of the Gulf of Finland,” says Power Plant Manager Satu Kataja (pictured).
The annual outages are executed safely 
and with high quality to ensure safe and trouble-free operations. In 2010 the annual outage of Unit 1 at the plant lasted 25 days and Unit 2 was down for 40 days; it was the shortest outage time for Unit 2 for the 8-year maintenance. About 8,700 maintenance and modification tasks were performed during the maintenance to improve the plant’s availability, efficiency and reliability. The modernisation work on Unit 2 achieved an electricity capacity upgrade of about 2 MW and now more electricity is produced with the same energy. The increase corresponds to the annual energy consumption of about 900 single-family homes heated with direct electricity. The capacity upgrade avoids about 13,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions annually if the same amount of electricity were produced with coal.
“Fortum is the biggest private employer in the 
Loviisa region. The nuclear power plant has 500 employees and more than 100 permanent contractors. We work in close collaboration with the local community. It is important for Fortum to engage in genuine interaction with the local people and players,” says Satu. “The energy attitudes surveys that are conducted annually indicate that Loviisa residents trust Finnish nuclear power know-how and widely approve the use of the current plants and the construction of new nuclear power capacity in Loviisa”, Satu summarises. 
How is the plant kept safe?The Loviisa nuclear power plant has been 
designed so that it won’t endanger people or the environment in normal operating circumstances or in design-basis accident situations. This must be the outcome, even if the personnel were to make a mistake or mechanical failures were to occur. Nuclear safety is based primarily on passive, successive barriers to prevent nuclear fuel from spread -
ing. The nuclear fuel in the reactor is contained within gas-tight fuel rods. The second barrier is formed by the reactor’s primary circuit, and the third by the gas-tight containment build -
ing. In addition to this, the power plants are equipped with multiple active safety systems, such as emergency cooling systems, and mul -
tiple redundant systems to secure the supply of electricity. Also authorities make regular inspections to make sure that the design prin -
ciples are realised and that the technical condi -
tion and use of the systems are appropriate.
In addition to functioning safety systems, 
special attention is also given to the compe -
tence and safety knowledge of the person -
nel. In 2010 Loviisa power plant employees spent a total of almost 4,000 days in training, equalling 7.5 training days per person. At Fortum, the safety and quality policy for nuclear power operations steers the devel -
opment of nuclear safety.
Safety is a priority in decision-making and in 
the planning and execution of work. In addi -
tion to comprehensive guidelines and internal quality control, in 2010 Fortum established an independent unit to supervise the develop -
ment of nuclear safety and quality control in Fortum’s nuclear power operations.
“Fortum uses several indicators to develop 
safety. One such indicator is the total radia -
tion dose of personnel. Compared to the  
four-year sliding dose average, the collective dose has decreased by two per cent. Also the other indicators related to personnel, environ -
ment and nuclear safety are important”, notes Satu.
How to know the risks?Comprehensive safety management includes 
the systematic, long-term work to improve radiation, plant and occupational safety. The work to enhance safety is continuous: we make different levels of risk analyses, examin -
ing issues at deeper and deeper levels, and studying probability and potential outcomes. We assess whether the risk levels are accept -
able or if measures are required. 
Among other things, probabilistic risk analysis 
(PRA) is used to evaluate the safety of Fortum’s Loviisa power plant. The analysis is used as the basis for making plant modifications that reduce the risk of an accident.
Most of the work done at the nuclear power 
plant is similar to that of other industries and involves the same occupational safety factors. The injury frequency rate at the Loviisa power plant (own personnel and contractors) is low. 
Fortum is a strong nuclear power expert
In 2010 three absence-related injuries occurred to our own personnel at the plant.
What if something happens?The probability of a serious nuclear accident 
is very small and not expected to happen at the plant. Nevertheless, a detailed rescue plan has been designed for such incidents, and preparations for external threats have also been made at the plant.
In the event of a nuclear accident, there 
would be time to seek protection, and the accident would be communicated through the alarm systems, radio and other media. Drills are held regularly to prepare for accident situations. In 2010 an extensive, collaborative drill on actions and manage -
ment in an accident situation was held with various authorities at Loviisa.
FORTUM S US Tain abili Ty RepOR T 2 010 env iR OnMenTal  ReSpOnSibil iTy 49   As a result of globalisation, 
the world’s economies are becoming increasingly dependent on one another. The internationalisation of operations and the international use of labour resources are imperative for the more equitable distribution of well­being. Socially sustainable globalisation requires long­term development of labour resources and assurance of a safe work environment.FORTUM’S GOAL 
<1 INJURY RESULTING IN AN ABSENCE 
(1 <1
1) per million hours workedMEGaTREnD: 
GlObaliSaTiOnFORTUM SUST ainabili Ty REPORT  2010  51
Human resources management
Fortum’s human resources manage ­
ment and daily work are guided by the 
company’s human resources policy, which is based on the company’s shared values and Code of Conduct and applied throughout the Group. The implementa ­
tion of the policy is monitored through employee surveys, annual performance and development reviews, and through the use of other feedback channels. The different sub ­areas of the HR policy have 
been further defined with Group-wide and unit- and country-specific guide ­lines. The Head of Fortum’s HR function is a member of the Group’s Management Team.
Human resources  
management goals
The focus areas of Fortum’s HR manage ­
ment for 2010 – 2012 were defined in 2010. 
The goal is to develop and harmonise HR processes in all countries of opera ­
tion, develop competence and resource planning, improve employer image, and talent and successor planning.Responsibility  
for personnel and 
society
Fortum’s goal is to be a preferred employer that 
engages competent employees at all levels. Taking care of employees is a priority for Fortum. Fortum believes that good leadership is fundamental to employee well-being, commitment and performance and to ensuring the achievement of the company’s strategic goals.
Employment and personnel
In 2010 an average of 11,156 employees 
(2009: 13,278) worked at Fortum. The big ­
gest number of employees was in Russia, on average 4,551 employees. Fortum’s personnel statistics by operating country are presented on the following page. Sub ­
contractor employees worked at Fortum sites for a total of 1,080,000 days during the year. The figure is based on the job-costs estimates and the average hourly rates. The figure has been calculated on the basis of an 8-hour work day.
The number of permanent employees on 31 December 2010 was 10,307 (2009: 11,332), i.e. 97.4% (2009: 97.6%) of total personnel. The percentage of fixed-term employees was 2.6% (2009: 2.4%). During the year 1,052 new employees joined Fortum. The number of terminated employment relationships was 1,954. Divestments reduced the number of personnel by a total of 344 (2009: 1,204). There were 62 employees on interna ­
tional assignment.
In situations of organisational 
restructuring, Fortum negotiates with personnel representatives in compliance with each country’s local legislation and contractual procedures. In situa ­
tions involving personnel reductions, Fortum aims primarily to support the re­employment of personnel. This is done 
e.g. by working with local authorities and by offering other services supporting re­employment (e.g. relocating and out ­
placement support).
The average age of Fortum’s perma ­
nent employees in 2010 was 44 years (2009: 46); the share of employees over 50 years was 36% (2009: 38%).
Key behaviours support 
performance and growth management
In 2010 Fortum launched the Leading 
Performance and Growth initiative, which aims to support the implementa ­
tion of the strategy and to develop the corporate culture. The initiative focuses on four key behaviours: to challenge each other, to co ­create, to coach and to 
celebrate together. These key behaviours help to create an open work environ ­
ment where all employees understand the importance of their own job and the responsibility they have for their own and the work community’s performance. 
During the first phase all Fortum 
employees are participating in events in which the key behaviours are discussed; the aim of the discussions is to ensure an understanding of the updated strat ­
egy and how the goals are related to one’s own work. In 2010 there were 32 events held for supervisors; the events will continue at the team level in 2011. Fortum employees also had the oppor ­
tunity to discuss the key behaviours and strategy with senior management at the Fortum Dialogue events. Additionally, an 
23%17%6%
14%40%EMPLOYEES, 31 DEC 2010, 
10,585 employees
Other
ESDHeatPower
Russiaemployee forum about key behaviours 
and strategy was opened on the intranet.
The implementation of the strategy 
and the new key behaviours will be monitored with the Sensor survey; the survey aims to measure progress in the achievement of the goals of the Leading Performance and Growth programme and the adoption of the key behaviours at the team level. The results of the semi ­annual survey support the teams in 
developing their operations. Sensor was first conducted in January 2011. 
The Fortum ­wide employee survey, 
Fortum Sound, focuses on measuring employee engagement. It was last con ­
ducted in 2009. Fortum’s engagement index was 60%, compared to the global reference norm of 66%. Based on the results, five areas of development were selected: management trust, confidence in the future, social responsibility, col ­
laboration across unit boundaries, and a sense of being appreciated. The survey response rate was 81%. In 2010 employee satisfaction in the ESD and Power divi ­
sions was studied through small ­scale 
Pulse surveys, the results of which were reviewed by the respective management teams of the divisions. The next Group-wide Fortum Sound survey will be con ­
ducted in 2012.
Competent personnel a 
prerequisite for success
Fortum’s success is based on the con ­
tinuous development of operations and 
personnel. Personnel development is supported through annual performance and development reviews, personnel training, and internal job rotation. In line with its HR policy, Fortum aims to create attractive career and Lower universityUniversity
30%25%0.5%
4%
6.5%34%LEVEL OF EDUCATION, 31 DEC 2010, 
permanent employees
Compulsory
Vocational
CollegeDoctorate52 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 development opportunities for individu ­
als to continuously grow their profes ­
sional skills and know ­how. 
Employees go through annual per ­
formance and development reviews 
that aim to commit and motivate the personnel, engage them in the strategy, business goals and operating plans, and improve operational planning, workplace atmosphere and flow of information. In Russia the process covers all individuals at the management level and some at the expert level.
Personal or team goals are set in the 
performance and development reviews; the achievement of these goals affects the amount of the employee’s incen ­
tive bonus. Permanent employees at Fortum are included in the incentive programme, except for some Polish and Russian employee groups and those who are included in some other similar type of incentive system (e.g. power plant pro ­
ductivity programmes).
The leadership skills of supervisors 
are being developed with the supervisory induction programme adopted in 2010. Completion of the programme is manda ­
tory for all individuals transitioning to a supervisory position from either 
2010 2009 2008
Power 1,819 1,916 3,520
Heat 2,394 2,552 2,318
ESD 1,487 1,699 1,971
Russia 4,294 4,855 7,262
Other operations 591 591 508
Total 10,585 11,613 15,579PERSO nnEl by DiviSiOn , 31 D EcEMbER 
Finland Sweden Russia Estonia Poland Norway Other 
Personnel at year-end 2,609 2,257 4,289 350 633 137 310
Personnel, average 2,743 2,361 4,551 360 669 140 332
Number of new employment 
relationships (1430 297 253 31 8 4 29
Number of employment relationships ended 
(2521 466 725 38 129 10 65
Personnel expenses, 1,000 euros 212,021 181,190 69,213 7,433 10,326 11,021 15,569
Per person, 1,000 euros 77.3 76.8 15.2 20.6 15.4 78.8 46.9FORTUM ’S PERSO nnEl STaTiSTicS FROM  2010, by c OUnTRy OF OPER aTiOn
1) Includes summer workers
2) Includes operations sold, outsourced operations and summer workersinside or outside the company. The 
programme is in use in the Nordic coun ­
tries and will be implemented in other countries in 2011. All new employees will participate in the standard induc ­
tion programme, Fortum Passport. The programme includes a feedback survey conducted four months after the start of employment. It is used to monitor the implementation of the programme and to develop its content.
Additionally, Fortum offers its per ­
sonnel several internal leadership train ­
ing programmes to support the various development needs of personnel. The Fortum Manager training programme is designed for all supervisors in need of basic skills related to daily management. Basic skills used in different areas of supervisory work and Fortum’s practices are also reviewed in the Master training programme. The Fortum Expert pro ­
gramme is tailored to the experts’ needs in managerial, communication and col ­
laboration skills.
Fortum uses the People Day process 
to identify strategically important know ­
how and to plan development. In the second half of 2010 Fortum started creat ­
ing the new talent concept. The goal is 
1,800
1,4001,600
1,0001,200
600800
400
0200
–24 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–PERSONNEL AGE DISTRIBUTION,  31 DEC 2010, permanent employees
3189731,0241,2751,4001,5321,660
1,367
758FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 53   The first Fortum Forerunner 
Trainee programme got under way at the beginning of 2009 with 13 new graduates from six countries. The next 18-month programme started at the beginning of 2011.
The university graduates selected 
for the Trainee programme have a degree in technology or econom -
ics, they are internationally ori -
ented and interested in developing themselves and the energy sector. A permanent employment contract is signed with all programme par -
ticipants; upon conclusion of the Trainee programme, the individual continues working within the divi -
sion they have already become familiar with.
The participants in the first 
programme were from Finland, Sweden, Poland, Russia, Latvia and Lithuania. Anders Karlsson (pictured) from Sweden worked part of the time at the head office in Finland. ”I worked with process development as part of a team consisting of workers from different countries. This was definitely the most challenging work – but also the most fun – that I’ve done so far.”
Working as a process developer, 
Anders got to head his own projects towards the end of the Trainee programme. ”The projects have been beneficial opportunities for hands-on learn -
ing, and the project manage -
ment training within the Trainee programme has supported the practical work”, he says. Good experiences with first Trainee 
programme 
to respond to the company’s current and 
future competence needs and to develop and retain employee competence.
Equality a cornerstone of 
well-being
In line with its Code of Conduct and 
HR policy, Fortum respects the equal rights of employees. Fortum believes that diversity is a competitive advantage for the company and a way to attract talent to the company. The equal and fair treat ­
ment of employees is also a cornerstone of well ­being and working capacity.
Fortum promotes equal treat ­
ment and opportunities in recruiting, remuneration, development and career advancement opportunities, regardless of the employee’s race, religion, political views, gender, age, nationality, sexual orientation, marital status or possible disabilities. Any form of harassment is forbidden and is addressed immediately. Fortum has in use in Finland and Swe ­
den separate guidelines for workplace harassment and discrimination. In 2010 there were no cases of discrimination reported.
In 2010 women accounted for 29% 
(2009: 30%) of Fortum’s total personnel. Women accounted for 27% (2009: 30%, includes Russia) of management teams at the Group and division level. 
In line with its HR policy, Fortum 
offers all its employees a competitive incentive system. Salaries and wages are based on laws and agreements, and are compliant with established practices in each country. Salary level is based on personal work performance, compe ­
tence grade, and on defined competence requirements. In Finland pay equality for men and women in white ­ and upper ­white ­collar positions has been moni ­
tored as a part of the equality plan since 2005. Comparisons in the ‘workers’ per­sonnel group have not been possible due to the small group sizes. In 2009 the sal ­
ary differences between male and female white ­collar employees was just under 
7 percentage points, on average, and the dispersion was 3 – 11 percentage points. 
The differences are partly explained by age and seniority differences. Similar differences in salaries were not observed in the upper ­white ­collar employee group for either gender. Similar studies have not been made in other countries.
Employer image
In 2010 Fortum stepped up its invest ­
ments to improve its employer image and in student collaboration, and in the uniform, Group-wide Onboarding process. Employer image development is monitored with employer image surveys and induction programme feedback surveys. Fortum improved its ranking in Universum’s 2010 survey of employer image. Among technology students, Fortum ranked sixth in  
popularity as an employer in Finland  
(2009: 9) and 34th in Sweden (2009: 44).
Collaboration between 
management and personnel representatives
Fortum respects its employees’ freedom 
of association and collective bargain ­
ing, but it doesn’t monitor the degree of unionisation of its employees. In all countries where it operates, Fortum 54 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 The winners of Fortum’s Innovation Award 
2010 were announced in February 2011. The purpose of the award is to inspire all employees to actively initiate ideas and innovations that increase the efficiency of current operations, create growth, promote sustainability, and secure long-term busi -
ness and technology opportunities.
The first prize (50,000 euros/person) was 
awarded to the Power Division’s Pauli Dern -
jatin, Kati Savolainen and Antti Heinolainen: “Method and burner for the combustion of lean gas in a power plant boiler.”
The winning team’s initiative is an excep -
tional solution for the combustion of gas, 
created during the gasification of biofuels and waste, in a power plant boiler. The invention could have an impact on For -
tum’s CHP solutions-based growth. It also improves flexibility in the use of fuels. The invention is protected by the recently submitted European patent application, through which Fortum can use the innova -
tion in its own plants and licence it to other players in the sector.
The shared second prize (10,000 euros) 
was awarded to the Heat Division’s Ara Lehtinen: “Improvements in district heating operating models.”
Another shared second prize (10,000 euros/
person) was awarded to the Russia Divi -
sion’s Kirill Maximov, Ivan Mescheryakov, Denis Pokrovskiy, Mikhail Popov and Natalia Alekseeva: “The use of eco-friendly coal in OAO Fortum’s Argayash CHP plant.”
Third prize (5,000 euros) was awarded to 
the Power Division’s Markku Lahti: “Two-dimensional modelling of underwater habitat.”A forerunner through creativity 
and innovationapplies local collective bargaining agree ­
ments in compliance with the scope of 
each respective agreement.
In Finland Fortum’s employee repre ­
sentation system is site ­ and company ­
specific, and representatives are selected by personnel group. The system is funda ­
mentally identical in Sweden.
Group collaboration meetings in 
Finland are held at least twice a year in conjunction with the Group’s financial statement and interim reports. Collabo ­
ration between personnel representatives and Group management also in Sweden takes place in the Council (Sverigerådet) that convenes twice a year. The collabora ­tion forms are based on the agreement made between the company and person ­
nel representatives. 
As a rule, the Fortum European 
Council convenes once a year, and in May 2010 it had participants from Finland, Sweden, Poland, Estonia and Great  Britain. 
Issues on the Council’s agenda 
include the Group’s financial state ­
ments, strategy and amendments, future 
outlook for Group production, employ ­
ment, productivity and cost structure, and other fundamental changes taking place in the operations, as well as general issues related to the company’s practices.
ACCOUNTABILITY
• We know the needs of our cus­
tomers and other stakeholders.
• We take responsibility for our actions and strive for the best performance.CREATIvITY
• We take initiative and encourage one another to find innovative solutions.
• We continuously develop our­selves and are open for change.
RESPECT
• We appreciate and support each other.
• We share knowledge, cooperate and discuss openly.HONESTY
• We act with high ethics and integrity.
• We are reliable and deliver what we promise.FORTUM’S vALUESFORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 55   Fortum’s occupational health care is 
organised in all countries of opera ­
tion in accordance with local laws and regulations. In 2010 Fortum introduced a uniform model for reporting occupa ­
tional health care indicators, and it will be gradually adopted in all countries of operation. The occupational health care indicators presented in this report are still primarily for Finland and partly for Sweden. Comparison figures from 2009 are not available in all cases.
In Finland Fortum’s occupational 
health care is focused on identifying work ­related hazards and risks, prevent ­
ing them and communicating about them. Occupational health care in Swe ­
den focuses on preventive care, but, con ­
sistent with Swedish practices, does not cover the medical treatment of illnesses. The organising of occupational health care consistent with the Fortum model is just in the development phase in Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries. Today, however, employees in Russia are within the sphere of a medical expenses insur ­
ance plan and can use private medical services. Also each production plant in Russia has a healthcare station with nursing-level first-aid services. 
In 2010 an average of 2,700 employees 
were within the sphere of Fortum’s occu ­
pational health care; about 75% of them used the company’s own occupational health care services and about 25% used contracted health clinics. The total costs of Fortum’s own occupational health care in Finland were about EUR 1.1 million. In Finland the occupational health care costs per person, calculated from the share paid by Fortum, were 501 euros and in Sweden 99 euros.
Fortum employees in Finland have 
the option to join the Enerkem insurance fund. The fund offers benefits in accord ­
ance with the Finnish Health Insurance Act and additional benefits in accordance with its own regulations. Over 90% of Occupational health and safety
Fortum’s target is to ensure a safe work place 
for employees and service providers. Fortum continuously invests in the well-being and safety of its employees and contractors at its sites. Fortum’s Finnish employees participate 
in the fund. Other countries do not have a similar practice in place.
Focus on prevention and 
occupational well-being
Fortum’s occupational health care 
service emphasises the significance of preventive activities in advancing the well­being of the work community. Work 
well­being and work safety are regularly 
addressed also in occupational safety committees, which operate in line with local legislative requirements and repre ­
sent all personnel groups. 
In 2010 preventive activities 
accounted for 36% of the patient visits in Finland. Prevention was the focus of the all occupational health care activities in Sweden.
Sleep and stress management are 
a key theme in promoting workplace well­being in Sweden in 2011. In Finland 
Fortum will launch a three ­year, work 
well­being programme with Varma 
Mutual Pension Insurance Company. The programme content and focus areas will be confirmed in early 2011.
ForCARE well-being programme
The ForCARE occupational well ­being 
programme launched in 2010 also focuses on well ­being at work. Its goal 
is to promote working capacity, occupa ­
tional safety and workplace well ­being. 
The ForCARE programme provides a uni ­
form model for early intervention and absenteeism practices. The goal of the intervention model and the communica ­tion about working capacity is to reduce sickness ­related absences by developing 
the work and the work environment and to promote working capacity.
Research promotes working 
capacity in control rooms
In 2010 Fortum launched the Core 
research project in collaboration with Aalto University. The goal of the research project is to ensure an inspiring work environment that promotes the working capacity of control room employees and, at the same time, increases the useful life of production plants. The research project aims to create a new Fortum control room concept and guidelines for the designing of control rooms. The Core research project is part of the ForCARE programme.
Sickness absences
Data on sickness absences was collected only for Finland and Sweden in 2010. The ForCARE programme will expand the systematic collection of sickness absence data to all countries of operation in 2011. The programme will expand to Russia in 2012. There was a total of 9,281 days of sickness absences in Finland and Sweden in 2010 (2009: 10,597). Fortum’s goal is to decrease sickness absences in the long term by monitoring, investigating and eliminating the causes of sickness­related absences.
Work injury reporting covers all 
Fortum employees as well as contractors working at Fortum’s sites. Occupational safety issues are discussed in more detail 56 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 on pages 57 – 59. In 2010 there were 13 
cases of occupational diseases under 
review; one was determined as being entitled to compensation. The others were still under review at the end of the year. Suspected occupational diseases are related mainly to noise and possible exposure to asbestos.
Preventive occupational health 
care adds to work years
In 2010 a total of 93 (2009: 86) Fortum 
employees in Finland and Sweden tran ­
sitioned to age ­related retirement. In 
Finland 19 employees started receiving a disability pension.
Fortum encourages employees to 
remain in the working world. In 2010 Fortum had 758 employees over the age of 60.
Safety management
Fortum’s safety management is based on laws and regulations, as well as on Fortum’s safety principles and Group-level requirements and safety guidelines, which are supplemented with divi ­
sion- and site-specific instructions. Line management is responsible for safety management.
In addition to ISO 14001, the goal is 
to have OHSAS 18001 certification of all operational management systems. At the end of 2010 27% of Fortum’s operations were OHSAS 18001 certified. Certifica ­
tion covered the Power Division’s Nordic operations as well as German and Great Britain operations, excluding the opera ­
tion and maintenance activities of Sul ­
lom Voe. In the Heat Division, operations in Finland, Poland and Lithuania, and some in Estonia, were certified. The goal is to get certification for the Heat Divi ­sion’s Latvian and Swedish operations and the Russia Division’s operations in Russia in 2011. The ESD Division doesn’t have OHSAS 18001 certification. A coun ­
try-specific list of certification coverage is presented on page 2.
Fortum is developing safety man ­
agement and target ­setting based on a 
principle of continuous improvement. Development of the safety manage ­
ment system in 2011 is focused on a clear reduction of serious accidents, realisation of the Group-level minimum requirements drafted at the end of 2010, and on the precise implementation of the agreed development programmes and actions.
Safety issues are part of Fortum’s 
incentive system. The goal in 2011 is to standardise the way safety issues are fac ­
tored into the incentive system.
Safety targets and results
Fortum has defined one Group-level safety target: a lost workday injury frequency of less than one (LWIF <1) per million working hours for own person ­
nel. In addition, all divisions have shared targets for contractor LWIF, number of safety observation tours made by manag ­
ers, safety reporting, fires, leaks, and implementation of corrective measures. Just like environmental targets, also the realisation of safety targets is monitored in monthly, quarterly and annual report ­
ing. Leaks and fires during 2010 are presented on page 34.
 
All-time best safety level in 
European operations
In reporting injuries, Fortum complies 
with the principles of the United States Occupational Safety & Health  In early 2010 Fortum set out to develop a 
comprehensive model to support individ -
ual employees and the work community in different working situations. As a result of this goal-oriented work, the ForCARE well-being model was created.
“ForCARE is the common denominator 
of all the support Fortum provides for working capacity and well-being of its employees. In addition to occupational safety, the model also includes occu -
pational health and well-being,” says Fortum’s Chief Occupational Health Physician, Lotta Autio (pictured).
ForCARE ensures the same practices and 
ways of operating and equal treatment for all Fortum personnel, regardless of organisation or location.
At the individual level, ForCARE’s goal is 
to promote and maintain the personnel’s working and functioning capacity during all phases of their career and to make work well-being an integral part of super -visory work. Supervisor awareness about the importance of well-being in terms of business operations has increased; they are coaching their own subordinates and teams so that the ForCARE well-being model becomes familiar to everyone.
Work well-being is everybody’s 
business
ForCARE was adopted in Finland in 
autumn 2010 and the model will be rolled out to all of Fortum’s countries of opera -
tion over the next two years. It will be customised according to each country’s legislation in collaboration with local occupational health organisations, the HR department and management.
“At Fortum we believe that it pays to 
promote well-being. It benefits everyone: employees, the employer and society as a whole. We want work well-being to be something that is part of the daily rou -
tine,” says Lotta Autio.A comprehensive approach to 
improving employee well-being
FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 57   Administration (OSHA) and the ILO’s 
Practise on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases (1995) to the extent that they conform with the legislation in Fortum’s countries of operation. The lost workday injury frequency per million working hours for Fortum’s own personnel was 2.4. Thus the target of LWIF <1 was not achieved. However, the all ­time best result was 
achieved in European operations: the injury frequency decreased from 2.4 to 2.2, and the accidents resulting in an absence dropped from 29 to 24. As part of the environment, health and safety (EHS) action plan, transparency in reporting was a focus in Russia. This was reflected in the increase in the injury frequency from 0.8 to 2.6. Fortum personnel had a total of 769 days of absence caused by work injuries, 544 of these days were in the Russia Division. There was a clear drop in the figure for own personnel Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF), which includes minor injuries not requiring an absence: from 6.0 to 4.6. 
Fortum’s target is to avoid accidents 
resulting in a fatality. There was one accident resulting in the fatality of a Fortum employee in Russia in 2010. The accident was investigated in accordance with Fortum’s guidelines. Corrective measures included improvements in training and induction and in pre ­work 
risk analyses. Also work station safety was enhanced by replacing railings and work platforms.
Fortum’s safety management  
encompasses own personnel as well as contractors working at Fortum’s sites.  
10
8
246
0
08 09 10LOST WORKDAY INJURY FREQUENCY 
(LWIF) 2008–2010, CONTRACTORS
8.2
6.5
5.010
8
246
0
08 09 10LOST WORKDAY INJURY FREQUENCY (LWIF) 2008–2010, FORTUM PERSONNEL
4.3
2.4 2.42010 2009 2008 (2
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) (1, Fortum personnel 2.4 2.4 (24.3
Lost workday injuries, Fortum personnel 45 37 63
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) (1, contractors 5.0 6.5 (28.2
Lost workday injuries, contractors 43 51 47
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) (1, Fortum personnel 4.6 (26.0 (29.4
Fatalities, Fortum personnel 1 0 0
Fatalities, contractors 0 2 1
Number of safety observation tours 8,790 (28,480  (28,730
Number of improvement proposals and near miss-reports 4,440 (24,080  (24,320KEY SAFETY FIGURES 2008−2010
1) Per million working hours
2) Excludes Russia Division58 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 In 2010 we completed big power plant 
projects in Pärnu, Estonia, and Częstochowa, Poland. Occupational safety was an impor -
tant – and successfully accomplished – goal in both projects. There was only one injury resulting in absence during the projects.
Safety was a factor in both projects, 
even as early as in the partner selection phase. We arranged safety training and all employees, including the contractors’, participated in it. Only those who passed the safety exam received an access card to the construction site – and even then only with the proper protective gear.
Safety deviations were addressed straight 
on, right from the start. Supervisors made observation tours and the operations were supported by inspection rounds by Fortum’s safety experts. The projects had a full-time EHS manager, who supported the contractors’ site supervisors by overseeing and directing the implementation of safety instructions for the duration of the projects.
The Częstochowa project received Fortum’s 
annual Safety Award as well as an award from Polish authorities. The high level of occupational safety sparked pride among the people participating in the project: a safe way of working reflects good profes -
sional skills.Safety is priority in Pärnu and 
Częstochowa power plant projects A clear improvement was achieved in 
contractor safety; the LWIF for contrac ­
tors decreased from 6.5 to 5.0.
With the exception of the ESD Divi ­
sion, the proactive indicator targets (safety reports and initiatives and safety observation tours) were achieved.
Significant improvements in 
safety of investment projects
One of the 2010 development pro ­
grammes focused on the safe imple ­
mentation of major investments. The 
programme was very successful: a total of just one injury resulting in an absence occurred in the Częstochowa and Pärnu power plant projects implemented in 2010. The Częstochowa project won the “Safest construction site” award given by local authorities as well as Fortum’s internal Safety Award. 
Fortum’s safety efforts in 2010 were 
also recognised in a competition organ ­
ised by Latvian authorities. Fortum was awarded for the use of safety observation tours in proactive safety management.
Other development programmes in 
2010 included the management safety training, improving the safety manage ­
ment system for the Heat Division’s small heat plants in Finland, and the safety programmes implemented by the Power Division. The new “365 Safe Days” safety culture programme covering the entire Power division was launched at the end of 2010 and will be implemented in 2011.
Russian EHS action plan 
Fortum’s target is to bring health ­ and 
safety ­related performance and manage ­
ment in Russia closer to the level of the plants in Europe. A comprehensive EHS action plan drafted for 2009 – 2015 is guiding the development of operations and the target ­setting, and its implemen ­
tation is monitored by a separate steer ­
ing group (read more on p. 35).
The EHS action plan progressed in 
2010 as planned. Safety management and practices were improved by arranging Fortum safety training, in which some 2,000 individuals took part, by adopting the safety observation tours, by using the Fortum model to investigate noncon ­
formities and accidents, and by regularly reviewing EHS issues in the Management Team.
Contractor safety was improved 
by placing Fortum’s safety experts at construction sites, by improving instruc ­
tions, and by including safety require ­
ments in contractor agreements.
Elimination of the asbestos risk 
is one of the goals of the EHS action plan. About 600 tonnes of asbestos was removed during the year. New asbestos guidelines were adopted and technical enhancements were made to improve the safety of asbestos work. 
In the power plant environment, 
good protective properties are required also in workwear. Consequently, all of OAO Fortum adopted workwear that is consistent with Fortum’s requirements.
FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 59   Fortum’s Supplier Code of Conduct 
defines the basic sustainability require ­
ments Fortum has set for suppliers of services and goods. The Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and it is divided into four sections: business practices, human rights, labour standards and the environment. 
In procurement management Fortum 
applies the so-called 50,000-euro rule. It calls for supplier screening (written questionnaire and verification of credit) and the attachment of the Supplier Code of Conduct to any procurement agree ­
ments exceeding 50,000 euros. By the end of 2010 the guideline had been taken into use in all operating countries. 
If the supplier screening turns up 
any issues for which Fortum wants more detailed clarification, the supplier is sent an extended supplier questionnaire. Both questionnaires are based on the Supplier Code of Conduct and contain the following sub ­areas:
• General information about the business, includ -
ing the scope of the Code of Conduct, compliance 
with laws, anti-corruption policies
• Labour standards, including terms of employ -
ment, freedom of association, child labour, forced labour, non-discrimination
• Occupational health and safety, including training, protective equipment and gear, risk assessments, monitoring systems, instructions for subcontractors
• Environment, including management systems, impact assessments, monitoring systems
• Quality, including management systems, sub -
contractor quality control
 
In 2010 over 80% of the services and goods procured by Fortum were pur ­
chased from goods suppliers operating in Europe. In 2011 Fortum aims to develop risk­focused monitoring methods for 
suppliers of services and goods and to start auditing services and goods suppli ­
ers also from a perspective of sustain ­
ability. 
The auditing will be a part of the pro ­
curement function’s normal work prac ­
tices and will be implemented primarily by Fortum’s own professionals and, if needed, by an independent third party.
NGOs interested in origin  
of raw materials
Fortum’s goal is to thoroughly respond to questions from NGOs and to have an open dialogue on issues raised by differ ­
ent interest groups. In late 2010 Finn ­
watch published a study of the origin of the coal used in Finland and the ethical monitoring systems used by energy com ­
panies. In the study, Finnwatch noted that Fortum has the most comprehensive Supply chain management
Fortum’s supply chain management is based on the Supplier Code 
of Conduct for services and goods suppliers and a questionnaire-based screening of suppliers. When needed, Fortum conducts a more extensive screening that can include audits by Fortum or its independent representative at the services and goods supplier’s site.ethical guidelines of the energy compa ­
nies in the comparison and is the only 
company developing an ethical monitor ­
ing system of suppliers.
In Sweden Fortum Värme par ­
ticipates in the WWF Global Forest and Trade Network (GFTN) through GFTN Sweden. Fortum Värme’s long ­term goal 
is for all wood material used in Swedish power plants to come from reliably certi ­
fied forests. 
Fortum’s goal is to increase the share 
of certified wood material in all coun ­
tries of operation, e.g. in conjunction with the renewal of agreements.
Fortum Värme also participates in 
the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). As a collaborative body of palm oil producers and consumers as well as NGOs, the organisation has developed sustainable palm oil criteria. Its goal is for the sustainable production and use of palm oil. In 2010 Fortum Värme’s energy production used about 19,000 cubic meters of fractions that are residues of palm oil production. All residual prod ­
ucts of palm oil used for energy produc ­
tion in Fortum Värme come from RSPO member companies.
Fuel for the Loviisa nuclear power 
plant is acquired from Russia. Fortum has long ­term experience in collabora ­
tion with fuel suppliers, and Fortum knows the conditions and level of opera ­
tions at the mines, concentration plants and fuel plants.FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 60   Fortum Värme is a participant in the WWF 
Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) through GFTN Sweden. The GFTN is WWF’s initiative to eliminate illegal logging and drive improvements in forest management. Net -
work members are committed to promoting responsible forestry and credible certifica -
tion. For more information on the GFTN see www.gftn.panda.org.
As a renewable natural resource, wood has 
a significant role in our aspirations towards CO
2-free emissions. In Sweden the majority 
of the wood used by Fortum Värme comes from the Baltic countries and Russia and some originates from Sweden and Finland.Fortum Värme has annual targets to increase the amount of wood fuel acquired from certified forests. In practice the work means setting higher standards for goods suppli -
ers and traceability along the entire supply chain, all the way back to the forest. Success requires that buyers, suppliers and subcon -
tractors have an adequate knowledge and understanding of what sustainable forest management means. They also must have administrative systems to enable the success -
ful monitoring of wood origin.
Fortum Värme uses more than 400,000 cubic 
meters of wood chips and 300,000 tonnes of pellets at its plants every year. Responsible wood fuel procurementFortum interacts with millions of people through 
its businesses. They assess Fortum’s activities and performance in sustainability. As a responsible company, Fortum engages in a dialogue with the stakeholders and strives to find a balance regarding the different expectations.Dialogue with stakeholders
Stakeholder analysis
In spring 2010 Fortum conducted a com ­
prehensive stakeholder analysis in which 
Fortum’s most important stakeholders were defined within internal workshops and the most important areas of sus ­
tainability for our stakeholders were mapped. Additionally, an independent party was commissioned to survey key stakeholders about their expectations of Fortum’s sustainability activities in Finland, Sweden and Poland. According to the analysis, Fortum’s most important sustainability areas are:• Climate change mitigation
• Reliable energy distribution
• Nuclear safety and the handling and final  
disposal of nuclear waste
• Renewable energy sources and sustainable 
energy solutions
• Energy-efficiency solutions for customers
• Fair and transparent energy pricing
• Customer satisfaction
• Long-term profitability 
• Responsibility for local communities
• Emissions into the environment
• Responsible business practices 
  Read more about stakeholder expectations at  
www.fortum.com/sustainability
61 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Collaboration with lobbyists and 
organisations
As an energy ­sector expert, Fortum feels 
obligated to express its views on energy 
policy issues and to offer its energy ­
sector expertise also to decision ­makers 
and various organisations. Fortum engages in an active dialogue about key issues in the energy sector and publishes position papers on significant topics rel ­
evant to its operating environment.
At the EU level and in countries 
where it operates, Fortum is involved in 68 lobbying associations and organisa ­
tions; the main ones being: Eurelectric, Euroheat & Power, FORATOM, Finnish Energy Industries ET, Svensk Energi, Svensk Fjärrvärme, International Energy Agency (IEA) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. In 2010 lobbying efforts focused on the construction of additional nuclear power in Finland, Fortum’s carbon capture and storage (CCS) project, renewable energy, the EU’s new energy policy initiatives, and active lobbying work in Brussels.
Fortum participates in the Northern 
Dimension Business Council, which supports collaboration between the lead ­
ing companies in the EU and Russia, and facilitates a dialogue with political decision ­makers in the EU and Russia. 
In June 2010 Fortum participated in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum and, in September in the first Russian ­European Business Forum, 
organised by the Association of European Businesses. Fortum also participated in the European Economic Congress in Katowice, Poland.
Nuclear power discussion in 
Finland and Sweden
Nuclear power became a topic of public 
discourse in 2010 in Finland and Swe ­
den. It was a topical subject in Finland extent of the overhead and underground lines in use.
The average useful life of an electric ­
ity network is 50 years. When building a new grid, customer needs and sustain ­
able community planning are taken into consideration. In grid construction For ­
tum favours underground cables rather than overhead lines. Grid reliability is improved also by replacing overhead lines with underground cables and by moving power lines away from forested areas.
Grid automation also improves the 
reliability of electricity distribution. In 2010 Fortum installed about 200 remote ­
controlled disconnectors that allow the operations centre to quickly locate and isolate malfunctions and thus reduce the number of customers affected by an outage and the average length of outages. The new smart meters will help For ­
tum to locate malfunctions faster than ever. And the two ­way communication 
capabilities of the meters will enable the operations centre to pinpoint malfunc ­
tions by usage site.    
  Read Fortum’s position papers at  
www.fortum.com/publicaffairs
  Additional information about Fortum’s 
activities in energy-sector organisations at 
www.fortum.com/sustainability   Fortum’s customer councils in Lohja, 
Espoo, Järvenpää and Salo, Finland, meet several times every year. About one hundred people take part, and we collect feedback from them about our services. In the customer councils, we address current issues related to electricity use, and we brainstorm and test new products and services.
Through the years we have worked with 
our customer councils to develop the pric -
ing model for our electricity agreements and the environmental attributes of our agreements.
In 2010 we mapped customer wishes 
regarding customer communications. Based on the results, we have developed our online communications for customers alongside the traditional correspondence with customers.
In 2011 we will use the councils to help map 
customer expectations on future energy services. We are working with the council participants to find ways to boost the efficient use of energy through services related to energy use and monitoring.
We are planning to expand our customer 
council activities to new municipalities.Customer 
councils develop products and services
because of the processing of the applica ­
tions for a new nuclear power plant. In 
May 2010 the Finnish Government gave Fortum a negative decision ­in­principle 
on a third nuclear power unit in Loviisa. The company proposed that the new nuclear power unit be realised as a combined heat and power plant, and the heat utilised in district heating for the Helsinki metropolitan area. According to a study commissioned by Fortum, the district heat option would reduce Finland’s carbon dioxide emissions by 6 – 7% per year. Fortum is participating in 
Teollisuuden Voima’s Olkiluoto 4 nuclear power plant project, which received a favourable decision ­in­principle. 
In Sweden the dialogue targeted 
the availability of nuclear power plants, and new nuclear power legislation was approved that allows old reactors being decommissioned to be replaced with new ones. A capacity upgrade programme is currently under way at Fortum’s co ­
owned Oskarshamn and Forsmark power plants. Fortum’s share of the planned additional capacity is about 290 MW.
Excellent electricity distribution 
reliability
Fortum’s electricity distribution reliabil ­
ity is 99.9%, but Fortum is continuously 
working to improve its level of reliability. Fortum uses international indicators (SAIDI and CAIDI) to measure electric ­
ity distribution reliability. In 2010 the system average interruption duration indicator (SAIDI) per customer was 104 minutes, 19 minutes of which was planned outages. The customer average interruption duration indicator (CAIDI) was 62 minutes. Fortum’s indicators in Sweden and Finland are at the average level. The indicators of different compa ­
nies are not fully comparable because they depend on the grid area and the 62 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Energy price a topic of discussion
In 2010 energy pricing became a topic 
of discussion particulary amongst customers. Fortum has participated in the discussion by describing the Nordic electricity market’s operations and the electricity price formation in the mar ­
kets (read more on p. 21). Additionally, customer service employees received training in communicating the factors that affect electricity price.
In Sweden the Swedish Competition 
Authority announced in November 2010 that it had discontinued its investigation of Fortum’s pricing of district heat in Stockholm. The authority noted, among other things, that the real price of dis ­
trict heat in Stockholm had decreased by 1.5% during 2005 – 2010.
In Finland the Finnish Energy 
Industries did a district ­heat price com ­
parison that included also Fortum. In the unweighted national price comparison, Fortum’s district heat prices in its main district heating areas of Espoo and Joen ­
suu were cheaper than the average price for district heat in Finland. According to the comparison, energy-efficient district heat produced in combined heat and electricity plants is clearly more econom ­
ical than separate heat production.
In summer 2010 Fortum engaged in 
an active dialogue with local communi ­
ties in Russia about energy pricing and the tariff structure.
Listening to customers
Fortum sells electricity to private cus­tomers only in the Nordic countries; it has distribution customers in the Nordic countries and Estonia. Fortum meets with customers at customer events and publishes a customer magazine. In Fin ­
land Fortum also organises customer councils, eight of which were held in 2010 (read more on p. 62).
Private customers can direct ques­
tions related to energy and energy conservation to Fortum’s energy guides. In Sweden about 150 energy guides have been trained to help customers in energy conservation and in sustainable energy solutions. Additionally, customers can use an online energy simulator to try out ways to use energy more efficiently in their own home. In Finland questions can be submitted through Fortum’s web site.
Customers in Finland, Sweden and 
Norway also have access to an ombuds ­
man, whose main priority is to look after the interests of consumers at Fortum and to develop the company’s operations in a more customer ­friendly direction.
Collaboration with NGOs
Fortum collaborates with environmental organisations regarding the eco ­labelling 
of electricity products and participates in projects related to environmental conservation and maintaining biodiver ­
sity. Some of the funding for the projects comes from the sales of eco ­labelled Eko ­
energi and Bra Miljöval electricity (read more on p. 46).In the second half of 2010 the origin 
of coal became a topic of public discourse after Finnwatch published a study of Finnish energy companies. Read more about the results of the study on page 60.
Engaging with the community, in 
person and on the web
Fortum participated in many public 
events in 2010. In Sweden Fortum was part of the Almedalen event in July. The annual event brings together more than 10,000 participants interested in cur ­
rent issues related to the environment, climate and energy. Fortum presented its sustainable energy solutions at the event and sought political support for invest ­
ments in CO
2­free production. 
At the Suomi Areena event in Pori, 
Finland, Fortum showcased, among other things, electricity production and a smart grid, solutions for eco ­living, and 
wave power technology under develop ­
ment. 
Sustainable urban living was dis­
cussed at Stockholm’s Energy Sympo ­
sium 2010.KEy STaKEHO lDERS
FortumCustomers
Services and goods 
suppliers 
Investors and 
shareholders
Authorities and 
decision-makersPublic, media and 
non-governmental 
organisationsLocal communities Energy-sector 
organisations
PersonnelFORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 63   Fortum’s Värtan combined heat and 
power (CHP) plant is prominently located in Stockholm. Even though the plant is one of the most efficient and cleanest coal utilising production plants in Europe, the plant’s use of coal is fuelling a discussion among non-governmental organisations and customers. 
In autumn 2009 a group of environmen -
tal activists became interested specifically 
in the Värtan plant. Activists operating under a movement called ‘Shut it Down’ created a Facebook page and initiated a demonstration against the use of coal at Fortum’s Värtan plant. In addition to meeting with the group, Fortum Värme’s Environmental Manager engaged them in a dialogue on Facebook.Through the Facebook dialogue that lasted until spring 2010, Fortum was able to com -
municate more extensively about district heat production and about its plans to phase out the use of fossil fuel. 
Fortum is testing a variety of biofuels and 
the aim is to replace half of the coal with biofuels. 
We believe that a dialogue with our 
stakeholders is necessary and beneficial to everyone. By keeping an open and candid dialogue going on Facebook, we success -
fully reached our stakeholders and our critics.‘Shut it Down’ dialogue with 
stakeholders in social mediaIn Poland Fortum took part in the Euro ­
pean Sustainable Transport Week project 
by arranging a family event showcasing e.g. electric motoring. Fortum supported the energy conservation efforts of its Wroclaw customers through a campaign about energy efficiency and environmen ­
tal awareness. Fortum is a member of the Wroclaw for the Climate project, which aims to make Wroclaw a model city of eco­friendliness in Europe by developing 
transportation, energy solutions, water conservation and waste management.
In Finland and Sweden Fortum 
monitors the discourse in social media. Social media is also utilised in various campaigns. In 2010 Fortum introduced a social media guide that contains guidelines for employee activities in social media.
Communicating with different 
stakeholders through media 
Media representatives are an important 
stakeholder group for Fortum; at the same time, media provides a channel for dialoguing with other stakeholders. The aim is to respond to media requests as quickly as possible and to organise regular press conferences and one ­on­
one meetings with senior management and experts as well as press visits to power plants. In 2010 Fortum published 67 stock exchange releases and Group releases. In addition to these, local releases were published in Fortum’s countries of operation.Fortum’s communications function 
is guided by the company’s communica ­
tions principles, the most important of which are impartial, correctly timed and open communication. Fortum’s communications activities are governed by obligations of listed companies and insider guidelines.
Projects with local communities
Fortum actively collaborates with local communities in the municipalities where it has power plants. Open ­house days at 
power plants have been held for local residents, and the company has worked with local municipalities on lighting projects. Fortum collaborates with the cities of Espoo and Stockholm to promote future energy-efficient living and electric motoring (read more on pp. 17 and 35). Fortum also partnered with Stockholm in 2010 during its year as European Green Capital. In 2010 Fortum started collaborating with the town of Kurikka in Finland to promote the adoption of electric vehicles and to boost energy efficiency.
In Russia Fortum and the 
Chelyabinsk Region Administration have agreed on energy-efficiency collabora ­
tion. Additionally, in December 2010 For ­
tum and the Khanty ­Mansi Autonomous 
Region Yugra signed an agreement on social and economic collaboration (read more on pp. 27 and 38). Both agreements strengthen the collaboration between the parties in energy production in the area and in energy efficiency.64 SO cial RESPO nSibiliTy FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Urban sites in need of lighting can be 
voted on by residents. The winning sites receive energy-efficient and eco-friendly lighting.
Fortum is responsible for the construc -
tion costs in the projects. The cities are 
responsible for maintaining and ser -
vicing the infrastructure. The lighting projects have demonstrated that safe and comfortable urban environments can be created also energy efficiently. The new energy-efficient, long-lasting light bulbs help cities save money because they consume less energy and require servicing less often.
In Finland voting has been held in 
Joensuu and Loviisa; in Sweden there have been several lighting projects carried out in Stockholm. In 2011 one lighting project will be completed in Loviisa, and a vote will be held for a new site to illuminate in Espoo.Voting for a 
brighter future
Surveys provide information about 
stakeholder expectations
Fortum regularly surveys the expecta ­
tions of stakeholders, both at the Group 
and division level, and uses the feedback to develop operations. Fortum also carries out sector-specific comparison studies to better understand the key sustainability expectations targeting the energy sector and the different players’ responses to them.
Fortum monitors the satisfaction and 
loyalty of private and business customers through regular EPSI customer satisfac ­
tion surveys in Finland and Sweden. In the 2010 EPSI survey, Fortum received the best rating in Finland in the qual ­
ity of service and in Sweden in meeting customer expectations. Fortum’s poorest rating in Finland was in customer loy ­
alty, and in Sweden in the price ­quality 
ratio.
Starting in 2011, customer surveys 
will be replaced, at least partially, by the new, annual One Fortum survey, which standardises Fortum’s collection of data about different stakeholder expecta ­
tions of Fortum. The One Fortum survey will also explore stakeholder opinions about sustainability. The survey will be conducted in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, and the Baltic countries, and for the Power Division also in Germany and Great Britain. 
In Finland Fortum has partnered 
with Teollisuuden Voima since 1983 in the research of public opinions on energy policy issues through the annual Finnish Energy Attitudes study. Fortum’s special municipality in the study is Loviisa; the survey is used to map the views residents have on nuclear power and Fortum’s activities locally.
Some of the survey results are pub ­
lished by the Finnish Energy Industries at www.energy.fi 
In Finland and Sweden Fortum also 
monitors the development of the com ­
pany’s overall recognition and corporate image compared to its competitors in the monthly Brand tracking study. Fortum uses PR Barometer to annually map jour ­
nalists’ opinions of Fortum and satisfac ­
tion with its communications activities.
The Veiksel river in Poland flooded in May 
2010, taking out entire villages. The cities of Juliszew and Sady were badly flooded, but with Fortum’s help the damage was reduced.
The flood waters sat several meters 
high in homes and buildings, almost completely saturating concrete walls. We wanted to help people save their homes, so we brought in 30 industrial hot-air blowers. 
The effectiveness of the blowers sur -
prised everyone. One blower was able to 
remove 20 litres of water from the walls in 24 hours. One house was completely dried in less than a month and, because all 30 blowers were running 24/7, it was possible to dry out almost all of the homes during the summer. 
The city residents were grateful for the 
assistance, and we gained good feedback about a smart way to operate in the area. Without the blowers, it would have been much more difficult to save the homes.Fortum helped 
to repair flood damage in PolandFORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy 65   Independent Assurance Report 
To the Management of Fortum 
Corporation
We have been engaged by the Manage ­
ment of Fortum Corporation to perform 
a limited assurance engagement on the information on economic, social and envi ­
ronmental responsibility disclosed in For ­
tum Corporation’s Sustainability Report 2010 for the reporting period of January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 (hereinafter “Sustainability information”).
Management’s responsibility
The Management of Fortum Corporation is responsible for preparing the Sustain ­
ability information according to the reporting criteria as set out in Fortum Corporation’s internal sustainability reporting guidelines, the Global Report ­
ing Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version G3, as well as AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 issued by AccountAbility.
Practitioner’s responsibility
It is our responsibility to present a con ­
clusion on the Sustainability informa ­
tion based on our work performed. This assurance report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engage ­
ment. We do not accept, nor assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Fortum Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached.
We have conducted the assurance 
engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial informa ­
tion”. The ISAE 3000 ­standard requires 
compliance with ethical principles as well as planning and performing the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on whether any matters have come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Sustainability information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. 
In addition, we have conducted our 
work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. For conduct ­
ing a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed with Fortum Corporation the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 requires planning and performing of the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on whether any matters have come to our attention that would cause us to believe that Fortum Corporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (inclusivity, materiality and respon ­
siveness) and that the Sustainability information would not be reliable, in all material respects, based on the reporting criteria.
We have not been engaged to provide 
assurance neither on the information on economic and social responsibility inso ­
far as it has been in the scope of work performed by Deloitte & Touche Oy, nor on amounts or other disclosures relating to the prior reporting periods presented in the Sustainability information.
In a limited assurance engagement 
the evidence ­gathering procedures 
are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves perform ­
ing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the Sustainability information. The proce ­
dures selected depend on the practition ­
er’s judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability information. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the follow ­
ing procedures:
• Conducting interviews with senior management 
of Fortum Corporation to gain an understand -
ing of Fortum’s targets for sustainability as part of the business strategy and operations.
• Conducting interviews with key personnel from various organizational levels of Fortum Corpo -
ration to gain an understanding of stakeholder expectations towards Fortum Corporation, Fortum’s responses to those expectations as well as stakeholder engagement.
• Assessing Fortum Corporation’s materiality determination process and evaluating the results of this process.
• Performing a media analysis and an internet search for references to Fortum Corporation during the reporting period.• Visiting Fortum Corporation’s Head Office as well as one production unit in Sweden and one production unit in Finland.
• Conducting interviews with employees respon -
sible for the collection and reporting of sustain -
ability information at group and division, as well as site level at the production units where our visits took place.
• Inspecting relevant documents and systems for gathering, analyzing and aggregating the Sus -
tainability information as well as performing tests on a sample basis.
• Assessing the data consolidation process of the Sustainability information at Fortum Group level.
• Assessing how Fortum Group employees apply Fortum Corporation’s reporting guidelines and procedures.
 
Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engage ­
ment nothing has come to our atten ­
tion that would cause us to believe that 
Fortum Corporation would not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles.
Furthermore nothing has come 
to our attention that would cause us to believe that Fortum Corporation’s Sustainability information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria, or that the Sustainability information would not be reliable, in all material respects, based on the reporting criteria.Translation from the Finnish original66 a SSUR ancE REPORT  FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Our assurance report should be read 
in conjunction with the inherent limita ­
tions of accuracy and completeness for 
corporate social responsibility informa ­
tion. This independent assurance report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting Fortum Corporation’s performance in relation to its principles of sustainability.
Observations and 
recommendations
Based on our limited assurance engage ­
ment we provide the following observa ­
tions and recommendations in relation 
to adherence to the AA1000 Account ­
Ability Principles.  These observations and recommendations do not affect the conclusions presented earlier.• Regarding Inclusivity:  Fortum  
Corporation has an extensive  
stakeholder engagement process in place and has identified a broad range of relevant stakeholders.  
We recommend that Fortum  
Corporation further develops the systematic management of the stake ­
holder engagement process and that the process is coordinated centrally.   
• Regarding Materiality:  Fortum Cor ­
poration has processes in place to determine the materiality of sustain ­
ability issues. We recommend that the processes and criteria applied to assess materiality of sustainability issues are further systematized and documented. • Regarding Responsiveness:  Fortum 
Corporation is committed to being responsive to its stakeholders, which is evident from the ongoing and wide ­ranging communication on 
sustainability issues in media, forums as well as other forms, such as the Sustainability Report. However, we recommend that Fortum Corporation spells out more clearly its actions as a result of specific issues raised by its stakeholders.
Practitioner’s independence and 
qualifications
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ own Global 
Independence Policy is applicable to PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, its part ­
ners and professional staff, including all members of the assurance engage ­
ment team.
Our multi ­disciplinary team of 
sustainability and assurance specialists possesses the requisite skills and experi ­
ence within financial and non-financial assurance, sustainability strategy and management, social and environmental issues as well as knowledge of the energy industry to undertake this assurance engagement.
Helsinki, March 8th, 2011
PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy
Sirpa Juutinen  Maj­Lis Steiner  
Partner Director, Authorised Public Accountant
Sustainability & Climate Change  Sustainability & Climate Change
FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010  aSSUR ancE REPORT  67   2010 2009 2008
Sales, EUR million  6,296    5,435    5,636   
Operating profit, EUR million  1,708    1,782    1,963   
Comparable operating profit, EUR million  1,833    1,888    1 , 8 4 5    
Income from customers, EUR million (1 6 , 4 3 2     6,016    6 , 4 2 4    
Investments in growth, maintenance, productivity and 
investments due to legislation, EUR million (1 
1,162    933    
2,261   
Purchases from suppliers, EUR million (1 2,923    2 , 4 3 6    2,787
Employee compensation, EUR million (1 507    4 9 5     587   
Income and production taxes, EUR million (1 634    4 6 6     581   
Dividends, EUR million  888 (2    888    888   
Earnings per share, EUR 1.46  1 . 4 8     1 . 7 4    
Return on capital employed 11.6% 12.1% 15.0%
Emissions subject to EU’s ETS, million tonnes CO 2 9.7  7.7    7.2   
Free emissions allowances in EU’s ETS, million pcs 5.6 5.5 5.9
Environmental and safety investments, EUR million 91 61 60
Support for society, EUR million 5.2 2 Not available 
2010 2009 2008
Average number of employees 11,156  13,278    1 4 , 0 7 7    
Number of employees, 31 December 10,585  11,613    15,579   
of whom permanently employed  10,307    11,332    1 5 , 0 6 4    
Average duration of employment, years 13  1 4     15   
Female employees 29% 30% 29%
Females in management (127% 30% 33%
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF), Fortum personnel (2 2 . 4     2 . 4     4 . 3    
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF), contractors (2 5.0    6.5    8.2   
Fatalities  1    2    1   
OHSAS 18001 -certified operations (% of sales)  2 7 %    Not available Not available 2010 2009 2008
Carbon dioxide emissions, million tonnes CO 2  25.3    21.8    17.6   
Sulphur dioxide emissions, tonnes SO 2  20,700    1 4 , 6 0 0     16,700   
Nitrogen oxide emissions, tonnes NO x  36,700    3 1 , 4 0 0     29,500   
Particle emissions, tonnes  16,800    10,600    16,600   
ISO 14001 -certified operations (% of sales) 86% 87% 89%
Specific CO 2 emissions of power generation, g/kWh  189    155    1 3 4    
5-year average in the EU, g/kWh 69 59 74
Specific CO 2 emissions of heat production, g/kWh  213    205    205   
Specific CO 2 emissions of total production, g/kWh  196    172    157   
Total efficiency of combustion 68% 67% 69%
Share of CO 2-free energy in power generation 66% 69% 75%
Share of renewable energy in power generation 35% 36% 38%
Share of renewable energy in heat production 18% 17% 19%
Energy consumption, primary energy, TWh 166 152 126
of which indirect energy consumption, TWh 7 3 5
Utilisation rate of gypsum 92% 91% 89%
Utilisation rate of ash 59% 65% 71%
Environmental non-compliances  21    17    16   
Water consumption, million m3 2 , 7 4 6     2 , 4 5 8     3 , 4 9 2    
of which cooling water, million m3 2 , 4 3 6     2,390    3 , 4 0 2    
Thermal load on waterways, PJ  82    73    67   EcOn OMic RESPO nSibiliTy KEy FiGURES
SOcial RESPO nSibiliTy KEy FiGURESEnviROnMEnTal RESPO nSibiliTy KEy FiGURES 
1) Based on the cash flow statement.
2) Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM on 31 March 2011.
1) Covers Division and Group Management Teams.
2) Injuries resulting in an absence of at least one day per million working hours.Of the lost workday injury frequency figures, the Russia Division is included only in 2010.Key Figures68 KE y FiGURES  FORTUM S USTainabili Ty REPORT  2010 Contact information
Ulla Rehell
Vice President, Sustainabilitytel. +358 (0)10 45 29251fax +358 (0)10 45 24781e­mail: ulla.rehell@fortum.com Pirjetta SoikkeliVice President, Internal and  Sustainability  Communicationstel. +358 (0)10 45 32240fax +358 (0)10 45 24781e­mail: pirjetta.soikkeli@fortum.com
Feedback
We welcome all feedback on the report at sustainability@fortum.com.Sustainability information
Graphic design and illustrations: Neutron Design
Production and coordination:  Miltton Oy
Photographs:  Getty Images (inner front cover, 1, 12−13, 30−31, 50−51), 
Corbis (18−19), Topi Saari (cover), Shutterstock (26), Stefan Sjödin (35, 39, 
45), Tomi Parkkonen (7, 65 on the left), Jussi Eskola (29), John  Nurminen Foundation (34), Juha Taskinen (48), Ari Haimi (49), Fortum (other  photographs)
Paper: Invercote Creato 300 g, Galerie Art Matt 130 g
Printing:  Lönnberg Oy 2011SUSTainabiliTy REPORT 2010
Glossary with the 
abbreviations and terminology used in the reportInformation online
Sustainability informationThe Fortum corporate website was ranked as number one of the stock­listed Nordic companies in the Hallvarsson&Halvarsson Webranking 2010 survey. Among the European companies Fortum was ranked fi  fth. Fortum Corporation
Keilaniementie 1, Espoo | POB 1 | 00048 FORTUM | FINLANDtel. +358 (0) 10 4511 | fax +358 (0) 10 45 24447 | www.fortum.comDomicile Espoo, Business ID 1463611-4The theme of this report is next generation energy. 
We believe that future energy systems will be based on carbon dioxide­free electricity production and energy effi  ciency. At present, we already offer sustainable solutions, which help to reduce emissions, make more effi  cient use of resources and secure energy availability.  You can also read about how we act as a good corporate citizen as well as how we take care of our employees and surrounding communities. We enter the new decade with a renewed strategy that has sustainability at its core.  