Sustainability
Annual Report 2013Table of contentsTable of contents
Sustainability                                                   3
Sustainability Approach                                                    4
Key management topics in 2013                                                      6
Sustainability target setting                                                              7
Targets and results                                                                          8
Sustainability indexes                                                                    12
Our business                                                                   13
Solar economy production forms                                                    17
Nuclear power                                                                               20
Thermal energy                                                                              24
Power distribution                                                                         26
Heat distribution                                                                            28
Electricity and heat sales                                                               29
Purchasing                                                                                    30
Generating economic value for stakeholders                                  35
Our stakeholders                                                            40
Stakeholder collaboration                                                              43
Support for society                                                                         54
Stakeholder views                                                                          55
GRI Section                                                                     59
Sustainability management                                                            59
Reporting principles                                                                       61
Assurance                                                                                      63
GRI index                                                                                      64
Economic performance indicators                                                  74
Environmental performance indicators                                          79
Social performance indicators                                                        91
Assurance statement                                                                    104Acronyms, quantities and units used in the report                       106
Contact information                               107
Legal notice                                                    108
Annual Report 2013 Table of contents
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
2Fortum's Annual Report 2013Fortum's Annual Report 2013
Fortum is an energy company highly committed to sustainability. Catering to the versatile needs of our
customers, we generate, distribute and sell electricity and heat and offer related expert services.
SustainabilitySustainability
Sustainable business is our competitive advantage. We produce and distribute environmentally-benign
electricity and heat, and offer customer-driven energy products and services. We interact with millions of
people on a daily basis and build a sustainable energy future together with our various stakeholders.
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
3Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum's strategy. In its operations, Fortum gives balanced consideration to
economic, social and environmental responsibility.
Our economic responsibility includes
competitiveness, performance excellence
and market-driven production, which create
long-term value and enable profitable growth.
We aim for performance excellence. A
company that is financially strong is able to
shoulder its responsibility for the
environment, take care of its personnel, meet
the needs of its customers and support the
development of the entire society.The efficient use of resources and the need
to mitigate climate change are emphasised in
our environmental responsibility. Our know-
how in CO 2-free hydro and nuclear power
production and in energy-efficient CHP
production plays a key role in this. Through
research and development activities, we are
creating prerequisites for environmentally
benign energy solutions.Our social responsibility includes being a
good corporate citizen and taking care of our
own personnel and the surrounding
community. Our innovations and the secure
supply of power and heat support the
development of society and increase well-
being. We promote well-being and safety in
the work community, respect for individuals
and mutual trust, and responsible operations
in our supply chain and in society in large.
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
4Management modelManagement model
Sustainability management at Fortum is
strategy-driven and is based on the
company's values, the Code of Conduct, and
the policies and their specifying instructions
defined at the Group level. We comply with
laws and regulations. In addition to our
values, all of our operations are guided by
good governance, effective risk management,
adequate controls and the internal audit
principles supporting them.
At Fortum, responsibility for issues related to
sustainability lies with division and Group
function management, and, ultimately, the
President and CEO and the Board of
Directors. The Board of Directors has not
appointed any of its members specifically
conversant in sustainability and thus in
itsdecision-making relies on the information
and expert statements provided by the
Fortum Management Team and the Group's
sustainability experts. Fortum's corporate
governance is discussed in the Governance
section of the Annual Report 2013.
Sustainability
management at Fortum
is strategy-driven and
line management has
clear responsibility in it.Corporate Sustainability unitCorporate Sustainability unit
The Corporate Sustainability unit is
responsible for coordinating and developing
sustainability at the Group level. In 2013,
Corporate Sustainability was part of
Corporate Finance. In addition to business
divisions, Sustainability unit closely
collaborates with the other units of Corporate
Finance: Risk, Mergers and Acquisitions,
Strategy, Purchasing, and Internal Audit units.
Also the cooperation with the Legal, the
Communications and the Corporate Relations
units is part of everyday activities. The head
of Corporate Finance, Fortum's Chief
Financial Officer, reports to the CEO and is a
member of the Fortum Management Team.
The CFO also participates in Fortum's Board
meetings.
The Corporate Sustainability unit manages
the Group's Environment and Health and
Safety (EHS) network. Corporate
Sustainability is a member of the Group's
Finance Forum dealing with investments and
gives sustainability approval (environmental,
occupational health, safety and social
impacts) for all significant investments,
acquisitions and divestments as part of
Fortum's investment evaluation and approval
procedure. In addition, Corporate
Sustainability plays a central role in the
Group's market outlook and public affairs
processes and supports investor relations
with its expertise.In February 2014, Fortum announced
areorganisation of its business structure as
of 1 March 2014. Along with this change part
of group level functions were administratively
located in business divisions. Corporate
Sustainability will become part of Heat,
Electricity Sales and Solutions division. The
head of this division will report to Fortum's
Chief Operating Officer (COO) and is a
member of the Fortum Executive
Management.
Line managementLine management
responsibilityresponsibility
Fortum's line management is responsible for
sustainability management, and the
realisation of targets is part of Fortum's
incentive system .
Read more aboutRead more about
•Sustainability target setting
•Sustainability management
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
5Key sustainability management topicsKey sustainability management topics
in 2013in 2013
In accordance with our sustainability policy, we continuously improve our operations by assessing our impacts
and by considering sustainability in our whole business value chain.
During the year the development of
sustainability management focused on three
key areas:
•Systematic handling of sustainability-
related issues at the Board level
•Assessment of the impacts of Fortum's
activities on human rights
•Development of tools for country and
partner risk assessment from
sustainability perspective
In June 2013, Fortum's Board of Directors
supplemented its working order with the
approval of Fortum Corporation's
Sustainability Policy, sustainability target
setting and follow-up as well as review of
Fortum's Sustainability Report. In the same
meeting the Board approved Fortum's
renewed Sustainability Policy. In December
2013, the Board approved the Group's
sustainability targets for the year 2014 and
the sustainability components included in
both the short-term (STI) and long-term (LTI)
incentive schemes.
Fortum has included the UN Guiding
Principles (Protect-Respect-Remedy
framework) on Business and Human Rights in
its procurement processes and has
implemented a raise a concern channel for
misconduct reporting. In 2013, Fortum
included the assessment based on
those principles as part of a systematic
country and partner risk assessment. During
the year the most significant country
assessed was India. In addition to country
risk assessment, altogether around twenty
potential partners were assessed.
Climate at the top ofClimate at the top of thethe
agendaagenda
Among the global sustainability challenges,
climate change mitigation is one of the most
relevant issues for Fortum. In 2013, Fortum
actively promoted a market-based energy and
climate policy regarding the future EU targetsetting, the emissions trading scheme and
the functioning of the internal energy market.
In July, Fortum made a proposal to reform the
ETS using a so-called automatic supply
adjustement mechanism. The proposal was
followed by an extensive dialogue with
several governmental organisations and
politicians in the EU and member states.
During the year Fortum joined three
international business initiatives promoting
the role of business in climate change
mitigation: Caring For Climate Initiative under
the UN Global Compact, Single Target 2030
Initiative and twelve CEOs' Initiative for better
energy policy.
In 2013, Fortum joined
three international
business initiatives
promoting the role of
business in climate
change mitigation.
Development actionsDevelopment actions
The long-term development of the operational
sustainability performance based on
continuous improvement continued. New
topics investigated included Fortum's water
balance, definition and mapping of
environmental liabilities and extended
auditing of social responsibility issues among
contractors. A common procurement
model and safety requirements for
contractors were implemented during the
year.
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
6Sustainability target settingSustainability target setting
The Fortum Management Team decides on Fortum's sustainability approach and Group-level sustainability
target setting, which guide annual planning. The targets are approved by Fortum's Board of Directors.
The divisions define detailed targets and
develop action plans supporting the
achievement of the targets, and they ensure
that sustainability goals are included in the
business goals. Group-level key sustainability
indicators are reported quarterly. Safety and
environmental incidents and indicators
measuring the reliability of power distribution
and the availability of CHP plants are
reported monthly. The Fortum Management
Team regularly monitors the achievement of
the targets in its monthly meetings and in
quarterly performance reviews. As of the
beginning of 2013, results of the
sustainability indicators have been regularly
reported to Fortum's Board of Directors.
Sustainability targets are based on the
continuous improvement of operations. The
renewed targets, which came into force atthe beginning of 2013, emphasise Fortum's
role in society and measure not only
environmental targets, but also Fortum's
reputation, customer satisfaction, and the
security of supply of power and heat. As of
the beginning of 2014, the target setting was
adjusted by adding contractors' injury
frequency to the corporate targets and
expanding the CHP plant availability target to
cover the whole Group (in 2013, Heat
Division only).
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum
employee and are part of Fortum's short-term
incentive scheme. The 2013 incentive
scheme included an index that was based on
theOne Fortum survey and measured
Fortum's reputation among the general public
and customers. The index approved by the
Board of Directors for 2014 measures lostworkday injury frequency for Fortum
employees and contractors, the number of
major EHS incidents and Fortum's ability to
improve its performance in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Assessment.
Sustainability targets
affect every Fortum
employee and are part of
Fortum's short-term
incentive scheme.
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
7Sustainability targets and resultsSustainability targets and results
Fortum's sustainability targets consist of Group-level key indicators and division-level indicators. In addition to
these, Fortum has set targets for Group-wide projects, such as supply chain monitoring, promoting work well-
being, and minimum requirements for the environment, occupational health and safety. In 2013, we improved
our performance in regard to many indicators, but a couple of targets were not achieved.
Group sustainability targets and performance in 2013
TargetStatus at the
end of 2013 Remarks for 2013
Reputation indexTarget result 69.6 in One Fortum
Survey (long-term target >70) 69.8
Customer satisfaction index (CSI)CSI divisional scores at level “good”
(70-74) in One Fortum Survey 61-77Customer satisfaction improved in 4 out of 5
customer segments. Power Solutions
business area achieved the target.
Environmental responsibility
Specific CO 2emissions
Electricity production in the EU < 80 g/kWh, 5-year average 66 g/kWhEmissions in 2013 were 70 g/kWh. 5-year
average was up from 60 g/kWh in 2012.
Total production (electricity & heat, all
countries) < 200 g/kWh, 5-year average 186 g/kWhEmissions in 2013 were 196 g/kWh. 5-year
average was up from 179 g/kWh in 2012.
5-year average has been increasing since
2008.
Energy efficiency
Total efficiency of combustion
(Definition: produced energy divided by
the primary energy of fuel) > 70%, 5-year average 66%Efficiency in 2013 was 61%. 5-year average
was down from 67% in 2012. 5-year average
has been decreasing since 2008.
Major EHS incidents < 40 Fortum-wide 51
(Fires, leaks, explosions, INES1)events exceeding level 0, dam safety
incidents, environmental non-compliances)
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
8Social responsibility
Security of supply
SAIDI2)< 110 minutes 220 minutesHigh SAIDI was caused by severe storms in
the Nordic countries in December
CHP plant availability in Europe > 92% 94%
Occupational safety
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF)3),
Fortum personnel < 1 1.1
1)International Nuclear Event Scale
2)System Average Interruption Duration Index
3)LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency per one million working hours
Other sustainability targets and related performance in 2011-2013
Target 2013 2012 2011
Occupational safety
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF)1), Fortum
personnel < 3.0 2.8 3.4 3.5
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF)2), contractors < 3.5 4.8 3.8 3.2
Number of fatalities, Fortum personnel 0 0 0 0
Number of fatalities, contractors 0 1 1 1
Number of lost workday injuries, Fortum personnel - 20 29 29
Number of lost workday injuries, contractors - 76 57 45
Number of safety walks 8,920 16,644 17,507 15,324
Number of improvement proposals and near-miss
reports 7,800 21,876 6,362 10,087
Supply chain management
Supplier audits 93)13 10 -
1)TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency per one million working hours
2)LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency per one million working hours
3)Three suppliers in risk countries/division, excluding ESD Division
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
9Our key areas of developmentOur key areas of development
Environmental responsibilityEnvironmental responsibility
indicatorsindicators
Our key environmental responsibility
indicators, specific CO 2emissions and
energy efficiency, are embedded in the core
areas of our strategy: CO 2-free hydro and
nuclear power production and energy-
efficient combined heat and power
production. We use these key indicators to
measure our ability to respond to two major
global sustainability challenges: mitigating
climate change and improving resource
efficiency.
In terms of environmental targets, however,
the situation is challenging. Our fuel use
efficiency and our specific CO 2emissions
from total energy production have developed
unfavourably during the past five years,
although we are still on the better side of the
target level. Specific CO 2emissions from
total energy production have been on the rise
with the increased use of fossil fuels. Our
Russian investment programme in its original
form was factored into our target of <200 g/
kWh set in 2010. However, the higher than
initially planned use of coal has led to higher
emissions than anticipated. Our goal in the
upcoming years is to reverse the growth
trend in specific emissions. In this regard, the
plan in 2014 is to find emissions reduction
opportunities for our biggest sources of
emissions in Russia.
During the last five
years, the overall
efficiency of fuel use and
the specific CO 2
emissions from total
energy production have
developed unfavourably
in regard to our targets.
The overall efficiency of fuel use has
decreased because of the increase in
condensing power production; consequently,
we have not reached our 70% target. The two
gas turbine power plants commissioned in
2013 at the Nyagan plant in Russia were the
primary contributors to the increase in
condensing power production. Powergeneration at the Inkoo coal-fired condensing
power plant in Finland ended in
February 2014, which will reduce some of our
condensing power production. Additionally,
Fortum has two big CHP plants under
construction: in Chelyabinsk, Russia, and in
Stockholm, Sweden. Their commissioning, in
2015 and 2016, will contribute to improved
efficiency of fuel use.
The total number of major EHS incidents, a
category that covers fires, leaks of over
100litres, explosions, nuclear and dam
safety incidents, and environmental permit
non-compliances, was 51; the target was 40.
To some extent, the reasons for exceeding
the target can be attributed to changes in
definitions and in reporting practices.
However, incidents increased in some
projects and exceptional situations.
Improvement measures for these incidents
are local, such as better management of
changes in projects and the development
programme for the Heat Division's Swedish
functions. Corrective measures also include
e.g. renovation projects to reduce
transformer oil leaks and modifications to
Russian plants to reduce waste water permit
violations.
Social responsibility indicatorsSocial responsibility indicators
Of our key social responsibility indicators, the
security of supply of energy reflects Fortum’s
role in securing reliable energy supply for
society. Safe operations and a good level of
safety are demonstrations of professional
operations and the level of expertise.
With regard to social responsibility indicators,
we did not achieve our targets in security of
electricity supply or in contractor work safety.
Due to the severe storms in December, the
System Average Interruption Duration Index
(SAIDI), which indicates reliability of
electricity distribution, was double compared
to our target.
With regard to social
responsibility indicators,
we did not achieve our
targets in security of
electricity supply or in
contractor safety.Our preparedness to respond to storm
damage improved significantly, and repairs
were completed more quickly than before.
However, power outages affected a large
number of customers, and as a result the
SAIDI was high. Construction of a weather-
proof grid continues; the aim is to have about
half of our customers in Finland and nearly all
of our customers in Sweden within the
sphere of weather-proof power distribution by
the end of 2014.
The number of improvement proposals and
near-miss reports increased considerably due
to high activity in the Heat and Russia
Divisions and the clarification of reporting
practices in the Russia Division.
Despite many development measures, the
lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) for
contractors worsened and was 4.8 (2012:
3.8). In 2013, there was one fatal accident
involving a contractor employee at the
Chelyabinsk CHP-2 plant in Russia. In
February 2014, a contractor employee died in
an accident in power distribution in Sweden.
Additionally, the number of contractor
accidents increased from the previous year.
Most of the units and projects were able to
improve contractor safety, but the weak
development in a few of the organisations led
to an unsatisfactory overall result.
The biggest challenges were the construction
and renovation projects in Russia and
Sweden, and the electricity transmission
repair and modification work mainly in
Finland.
Contractor safety is a major challenge and
will remain a focus area in 2014. To improve
the situation, existing development projects
have been continued and new projects have
been launched. A common contractor
management model was adopted Fortum-
wide in 2013. To emphasise the importance
of contractor safety, LWIF for contractors
was made one of the Group-level
sustainability key indicators for 2014.
Contractor safety is also a more prominent
part of Fortum's incentive schemes.
Additionally, the auditing of issues related to
social responsibility was expanded among
contractors.
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
10Corporate sustainability targets in 2014
Target
Reputation index Target result 70.8 in One Fortum Survey
Customer satisfaction index (CSI) CSI divisional scores at level “good” (70-74) in One Fortum Survey
Environmental responsibility Target
Specific CO 2emissions
Electricity production in the EU < 80 g/kWh, 5-year average
Total production (electricity & heat, all countries) < 200 g/kWh, 5-year average
Energy efficiency
Total efficiency of combustion
(Definition: produced energy divided by the primary energy of fuel) > 70%, 5-year average
Major EHS incidents < 35
(Fires, leaks, explosions, INES1)> 0 events, dam safety incidents, environmental non-compliances)
Social responsibility Target
Security of supply
SAIDI2)
- Sweden < 100 min
- Norway < 96 min
CHP plant availability > 95%
Occupational safety
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF)3), Fortum personnel < 1
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF)3), contractors < 3.5
1)International Nuclear Event Scale
2)System Average Interruption Duration Index
3)LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency per one million working hours
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
11Sustainability indexesSustainability indexes
Expert assessments of sustainability and good rankings in significant sustainability indexes are important to
Fortum because they support the development and continuous improvement of our operations.
In 2013, Fortum achieved its all-time highest
scoring in the Carbon Disclosure Project's
(CDP) Climate Disclosure Leadership Index: a
full 100 points. In the Climate Performance
Index Fortum's result was A- in scale A-C.
Fortum shared the first place in CDP's Nordic
climate index. With its peak scoring, Fortum
would have shared a top ranking also in the
global index. Because the company's market
capitalisation was below the threshold for
inclusion among the 500 largest companies
worldwide, it was only assessed in the Nordic
index.
Fortum was awarded a Prime Status (B-)
rating by the German oekom research AG.
Fortum is listed in the STOXX Global ESG
Leaders indexes, which list global leaders in
terms of environmental, social and
governance criteria, and in the NASDAQ
OMX's and GES Investment Service's OMX
GES Sustainability Finland index, which
compares the leading companies listed on
the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and their
corporate responsibility.
In December Fortum was listed in ECPI®
Indices. ECPI is a rating and index company
dedicated to ESG (environment, social,
governance) research.Fortum is included in the Sustainability
Yearbook 2013, published by the SAM Group.
The assessment included more than 2000
companies, with the top 15 per cent in each
sector earning a spot in the yearbook.
Fortum achieved its all-
time highest scoring in
the Climate Disclosure
Leadership Index: a full
100 points.
During 2003-2013 Fortum was listed in the
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, but
was excluded for 2013-2014. In the 2013
ranking, the industry classification was
changed. Fortum's performance scores
remained at the level of the previous year, but
due to the new industry classification Fortum
did not make the index.
Honourable mention for ourHonourable mention for our
sustainability reportsustainability report
Fortum's Sustainability Report 2012, received
an honourable mention at the CorporateResponsibility Reporting Competition in
Finland. Altogether 140 companies
participated in the competition. Fortum was
given special credit for a clear and balanced
report, the review of the supply chain and its
impacts, and also for comprehensive
reporting of its tax footprint. The report was
also characterised as clearly structured and
reader friendly.
Annual Report 2013 Sustainability Approach
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
12Fortum's business activities cover the production, sales and distribution of electricity and heat as well as
energy-sector expert services. Investments and fuels make up a big part of Fortum's purchases.
We produce electricity and heat in an
environmentally benign manner using
versatile energy sources . We distribute
energy to our customers while taking into
consideration long-term, sustainable
community planning. We sell electricity and
heat and energy-sector expert services .
Energy production, distribution and use result
in many kinds of environmental impacts.
Some of them are global and extensive by
nature, some regional or local. The biggest
environmental concerns are related to
climate change, acidification, diminishing
natural resources and biodiversity.
Fortum takes into consideration the entire life
cycle of its energy products and reduces the
environmental impacts of its operations by
applying best practices and the best available
technologies, using natural resources in a
responsible manner, and efficient operating
and maintenance processes.Fortum takes into
consideration the entire
life cycle of its energy
products and aims
atminimising the
environmental impacts
of its operations as part
of the daily business.
Fortum's investments pursue a financially
profitable balance that provides the
possibility to increase capacity and reduce
emissions. In line with our strategy, we invest
in carbon dioxide-free hydro andnuclear
power production and in energy-efficient
combined heat and power (CHP) production.We produce economic added value for our
stakeholder groups. We support the
functioning of society by e.g. compensating
debt investors and shareholders, paying
taxes, employing people and supporting non-
profit activities.
As part of our daily business, we strive to
minimise the negative environmental impacts
of our operations. We act responsibly, and we
aim to ensure that our business partners act
responsibly and comply with our Code of
Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct.
Read moreRead more
•Fortum's energy production in different
countries
•Impacts of energy production and use
(PDF)
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
13Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
14Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
15Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
16Solar economy production formsSolar economy production forms
Fortum's diversified production portfolio utilises several solar economy energy forms in an environmentally
benign way. In addition to hydropower, these include bioenergy, solar power, wind power and energy
produced by heat pumps. Fortum is also actively researching many future solar economy production
technologies, such as wave power.
HydropowerHydropower
Hydropower is Fortum's most significant renewable electricity production form. About one third of Fortum's
annual electricity production is hydropower; the share fluctuates yearly based on the hydrological situation. In
2013, our hydropower production was18.0 TWh, i.e. 26% of the company's electricity production.
Fortum's hydropower production capacity in
the Nordic countries is about 4,600 MW. At
year-end 2013, we owned or co-owned 159
hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland.
Fortum has production control of 139 of
them. The power plants with the largest
capacity are located on the Dalälven,
Indalsälven and Ljusnan rivers in central
Sweden and on the Oulujoki, Kemijoki and
Vuoksi rivers in Finland.
Hydropower refurbishmentsHydropower refurbishments
Refurbishments and power upgrades increase
the efficiency and production of our
hydropower plants without additional
environmental load. Modernisation ofmachinery and equipment improves
efficiency, occupational safety and
operational reliability. The risk and extent of
oilspills and fires is reduced through
refurbishments.
Hydropower
refurbishments increase
the efficiency and safety
of power plants and
reduce environmental
risks.During 2013, refurbishment was completed
at the Pyhäkoski power plant in Finland and
the Edsforsen and Hansjö power plants in
Sweden. In Sweden, refurbishment continued
at Gammelänge power plant and new
projects started at the Noppikoski, Väsa and
Skedvi power plants. The refurbishments
completed during 2013, produced 12 MW of
additional capacity, which equals
approximately 24 GWh annual power
generation.
Reducing environmental impactsReducing environmental impacts
The most significant environmental impacts
of hydropower are caused by the
construction of plants and dams and the
dredging of riverbeds. Hydropower can alter
river systems, shorelines, and the routes and
natural flow rates of rivers. Regulating the
level of water in lakes and rivers affects the
aquatic habitat as well as other uses of the
water systems. Fortum actively participates in
mitigating the impacts of hydropower and in
research related to the impacts of
hydropower.Regulation of water systemsRegulation of water systems
Because of hydropower production, the flow
ofwater systems is regulated both on
anannual level and in the short term. Annual
regulation includes the storage of flood
waters and shifting of water discharges to
winter time when electricity consumption is
high. Short-term regulation means regulating
the discharges during the day to correspond
with electricity demand.
The permit conditions for Fortum’s
hydropower plants and lake regulation definethe limits for surface water levels and flow-
rate variations in the water systems. The
permits also define obligations to prevent and
to compensate for other environmental
impacts. As a result of careful operation,
Fortum’s hydropower plants had only
onesignificant permit non-compliance in
2013.
In the Oulujoki water system in Finland,
Fortum worked with the local Centres for
Economic Development, Transport and the
Environment to find ways to develop the
regulation of the entire water system in an
effort to reduce the kind of flooding
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
17experienced in summer 2012. As part of the
development work, shoreline property
owners, residents and other water system
users were asked about their experiences
with water regulation.
Fortum invested EUR 2.4
million to compensate
for the impacts of
hydropower production
on the fish industry.
Fish stockingsFish stockings
To compensate for the environmental
impacts of hydropower production on the fish
industry , in 2013 Fortum restocked about
265,000 salmon and sea trout smolts, and
267,000 sea whitefish smolts in Finland.
In inland water systems, lake trout,
landlocked salmon, pike perch, European
grayling and whitefish were restocked basedon plans drafted in cooperation with fishery
collectives. About 520,000 salmon and
rainbow trout smolts and 50,000 eels were
restocked in Sweden’s water systems.
Water system restorationWater system restoration
Voluntary projects also helped to lessen the
environmental impacts of hydropower. In
Finland, the fish habitats in three sections of
the Vuoksi river between the Tainionkoski
and Imatra power plants were restored. The
restoration projects were funded by proceeds
from the sales of EKOenergy-labelled
hydroelectricity. In the Oulujoki water system,
restoration of the Kiantajärvi flood plain areas
continued. The restoration will improve the
migrating and nesting conditions for birdlife
as well as the recreational use of the area.
As a result of the restoration work carried out
in the surroundings of the Krokströmmer
plant in the Ljusnan river in Sweden, trout
can migrate to Valvtjärnsbäcken creek to the
freshwater pearl mussel habitat. In 2013,
Fortum also participated in migratory fish
research by, e.g., modelling the movement ofmigrating fish in dammed rivers. Research in
the Klarälven river focused on improving the
survival of smolts as they migrate down the
river.
Improving dam safetyImproving dam safety
Fortum is continuously improving the safety
of its hydropower plant dams , and the
condition of the dams is monitored in
accordance with the safety inspection
programmes approved by the dam authority.
In Sweden, Fortum’s refurbishment project of
the Höljes dam launched in 2012 is
continuing; it launched a refurbishment
project at the Spjutmo dam in 2013. The
Höljes dam is one of the biggest dams in
Sweden, and during the project the dam will
be refurbished to meet the current
requirements for dam safety. The project is
the biggest of the ongoing investment
projects in Fortum’s hydropower production
and is scheduled for completion during 2015.
BioenergyBioenergy
Fortum utilises both solid biomass and liquid biofuels in CHP production and in heat-only production. These
fuels include e.g. forest chips and other wood-derived fuels and vegetable and animal oils and fats. In
addition, part of the municipal and industrial waste burned is bio-based.
In 2013, Fortum used a total of 6.8 terawatt-
hours (TWh) of biomass and biofuels,
accounting for about 5% of our primary
energy use. The amount increased by 11%
from 2012.
Solid biomass and liquid biofuels are used in
Fortum's CHP production and in heat-only
boilers in Sweden, Finland, Poland and the
Baltic countries. During the year four new
CHP plants utilising biomass and waste, were
inaugurated in Klaipeda (Lithuania), Jelgava
(Latvia), Järvenpää (Finland) and Brista
(Sweden).
Additionally, the production of bio-oil based
on pyrolysis technology started in November
at the Joensuu CHP plant in Finland.
Construction of a 410 MW bio-CHP plant
started at Värtan, Stockholm, in January
2013. The plant is expected to be in
operation in 2016 and will be one of the
world's largest bio-fuelled CHP plants.Fortum's plant to be
commissioned in 2016 in
Stockholm will be one of
the largest bio-fuelled
CHP plants in the world.
Increasing the use of bioenergy was
researched at many power plants. At the
Värtan power plant in Sweden, testing the
use of olive stones in the fuel mix continued.
Altogether 12,200 tonnes were burned and
their share in the fuel used was 2%. At the
Czestochowa CHP plant in Poland, the share
of biomass, both forest and agricultural, in
fuel use was one third during 2013.
Fortum is also a leading user of municipal
waste in the Nordic and Baltic countries. The
use of waste fuel amounted to 2.8 TWh
(2012: 2.3). Utilising municipal waste is anessential part of sustainable waste
management because it can reduce the
amount of waste that would otherwise end up
in landfills. It is also environmentally benign
since the energy content of the waste can be
utilised thus reducing the need for other
energy sources.
The sustainability, especially the carbon
neutrality and renewal, of biomass is subject
to intense debate in the EU. Fortum
participated in the discussion on this topic
and has established its position and actions
to ensure sustainable use of bioenergy in its
operations. Fortum is a member in several
international networks and organisations
promoting the sustainable sourcing and use
of bioenergy.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
18Fortum is involved in
several international
organisations promoting
the sustainable sourcing
and use of bioenergy.
Heat pumpsHeat pumps
Fortum utilises waste heat from wastewater and thermal energy from sea water, among other energy sources,
toproduce heat and cooling energy. Energy produced by heat pumps replaces the use of fossil fuels.
Fortum produces district heating and cooling
based on heat pump technology in
Stockholm, Sweden, and Espoo, Finland. In
Stockholm Fortum operates 17 large-scale
heat pumps in two separate locations. At the
Hammarby plant seven heat pumps with a
total capacity of 225 MW use sewage water
to produce heat for the district heating
system, and at Värtan/Ropsten a total of 10
heat pumps with a capacity of 256 MW use
sea water to produce heat and cooling.
Heat pumps utilising excess heat from
customers are used in the Open District
Heating pilot in Sweden.
Waste heat is being utilisedWaste heat is being utilised
In Espoo, Finland, Fortum is building a new
heat pump station near the Suomenoja power
plant. The heat pump station uses the waste
heat from the purified wastewater from the
near-by wastewater treatment plant beforethewater is released into sea. The
station produces some 300 GWh heat,
corresponding to the annual consumption of
roughly 15,000 single-family homes. Heat
pumps also cool the wastewater, thus
reducing the environmental impact of the
wastewater treatment plant. The heat will be
utilised in the district heating network in the
Espoo area.
In Espoo, Finland,
Fortum is building a heat
pump station to produce
district heat from heat in
wastewater. Production
of the plant equals the
annual consumption
of15,000 single-family
homes.The heat pump will significantly reduce the
local emissions from district heat production.
The annual CO 2emissions will decrease by
about 150,000 tonnes compared to the use
of fossil fuels. The construction work on the
heat pumps started at the end of 2013, and
they will be commissioned at the end of
2014.
A heat pump is an energy-efficient and
climate-benign production form that doesn't
generate emissions in the production phase,
with the exception of possible minor losses of
refrigerants or heating medium from the
pump equipment. The environmental impacts
from the use of heat pumps originate from
the production of the electricity used by the
pumps.
Solar powerSolar power
Fortum is gradually moving from the research phase of solar energy to commercial use. Solar power
technologies are developing rapidly and the use of solar energy is already cost efficient in sunny areas on
asmall scale.
In 2013, Fortum started solar power
production in India by acquiring a 5.4-MW
solar power plant in the state of Rajasthan,north-western India. The annual production is
about 9 GWh. Our short-term ambition is to
build a small photo-voltaic solar portfolio inorder to gain experience in different solar
technologies and in operating in the Indian
power market.Biomass Waste2011 2012 2013051015Use of biomass and waste in
2011-2013, TWh
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
19There have been solar energy demonstration
and research projects ongoing for several
years in Fortum. At the beginning of 2012,
asolar business team was started at Fortum.
The team analyses the solar energy marketand technology development and
assesses potential business concepts.
Fortum sells solar power kits in the Nordic
countries. Fortum's Solar Kit is a turnkeysolution including solar panels installed at the
customer's facilities. Fortum is also
committed to buying the surplus electricity
from the customer.
Wave powerWave power
Fortum has been developing wave power since 2007, and currently we have three ongoing projects. We believe
that wave energy will be one of the production methods in the future energy system.
In spring 2013, Fortum, the French large-
scale maritime enterprise DCNS and AW-
Energy signed a development agreement in
wave power research and development. As
part of the agreement, the companies will
develop a joint 1.5-MW wave power
demonstration project in Bretagne, France.
The project is based on the WaveRoller™
technology of AW-Energy. Fortum is
responsible for project development and will
be the owner of thedemonstration park.
Fortum is also a partner in the Finnish wave
energy technology company AW-Energy. TheWaveRoller™, developed by AW-Energy, can
generate electricity from the bottom waves of
the sea. Three WaveRoller™ units with a total
output of 300 kilowatts have been tested
during the past years offshore in Peniche,
Portugal.
Fortum and the Swedish Seabased AB are
currently building a demonstration wave
power park in Sotenäs, on the west coast of
Sweden. If all the planned phases are
constructed, it will be one of the world's
largest wave-power demonstration projects
and will have a 10-MW output. The initialphase 1, capacity of 1MW, is currently being
constructed. The project is scheduled for
completion in 2014.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum's wave power development
Wind powerWind power
Throughout the 2000s, Fortum has been developing several wind power projects in Finland and Sweden.
Fortum's current wind power capacity of approximately 30 MW originates from associated companies in
Sweden and Finland.
Fortum's wind power capacity originates
mainly from its minority share in BlaikenVind
AB in Sweden. Upon completion, Blaiken
wind park will have a capacity of 250 MW,
making it one of Europe's largest land-based
wind farms. Commercial production of thefirst phase of Blaiken wind power park started
in the first quarter of 2013. In Finland,
Fortum also has minority interests in Ab
Öskata Vind Närpes -Öskatan Tuuli Närpiö
Oy, and a one-fourth interest in TVO's one-
megawatt wind turbine in Olkiluoto.In 2013, Fortum divested two permitted sites
in northern Finland (Kuolavaara-Keulakkopää
and Joukhaisselkä), and shares in Tunturituuli
Oy. In early 2014, Fortum announced that
itsold the Tohkoja wind power project in
Kalajoki, Finland.
Nuclear powerNuclear power
Nuclear power has a central role in Fortum's energy production. In 2013, Fortum's nuclear power production
was23.7 terawatt-hours (TWh), i.e. 34% of the company's electricity production. Fortum is also a significant
provider of nuclear consulting services.
In Finland, Fortum owns and operates the
Loviisa power plant . In addition, we have a
26.6% share in Olkiluoto's two reactors and a
25% share in the third reactor under
construction.In Sweden, Fortum has a 22% share in
Forsmark's power production and a 43%
share in Oskarshamn's power production.
Fortum's nuclear power production capacity
is 3,276 MW.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
20Safety and availabilitySafety and availability
Fortum has long experience in the responsible operation of nuclear power. The safety of Fortum's nuclear
power plants is at a high level and we continuously develop the safety and availability of the plants based on
the principle of continuous improvement.
In 2013, our Loviisa power plant
produced 8.04 TWh of electricity, which was
about 9% of the electricity production in
Finland. The load factor describing the
availability of the nuclear power plant was
92.5%, i.e. excellent by international
standards. The availability of pressurised-
water reactors globally was 83% in 2013. In
the annual maintenance outage, both units
underwent a so-called refuelling outage, with
no major alterations or repairs carried out. In
addition, there were three repair outages.
During the year, the Loviisa power plant
recorded two incidents impacting safety
(level 1 on the INES scale used by the
International Atomic Energy Agency). The
incidents did not cause any danger to people,the environment or the power plant.
According to the IAEA definition, INES 1
incidents do not pose a risk but do indicate a
lack of safety provisions.
The load factor at the
Loviisa power plant was
92.5%, whereas the
global average for that
particular reactor type
was 83%.Availability in co-owned plants was good,
excluding Oskarshamn units 1 and 3. The
prolonged repairs and availability problems at
Oskarshamn 1 continued until the start-up of
the plant in January 2014. A problem
requiring a plant modification was discovered
in autumn in the Oskarshamn 3 turbine plant;
this will limit the plant's output until the
spring 2014 annual outage.
In December 2012, the Swedish Radiation
Safety Authority (SSM) placed the
Oskarshamn nuclear power plant under
special supervision. The operational
improvement programme launched at the
plant progressed as planned in 2013.
Continuous development of nuclear safetyContinuous development of nuclear safety
Nuclear safety and, in particular,
preparedness for extreme external
events, were actively discussed after the
Fukushima accident in 2011. Consequently,
the European Union launched nuclear power
safety assessments, the so-called stress
tests. In addition to these, national safety
assessments have also been carried out.
Based on the work done during and after the
stress tests, the European Commission
released a proposal for the renewal of the
Nuclear Safety Directive in summer 2013.
The new directive proposal is under review by
the Council of the European Union.
According to the safety assessments carried
out in 2012, the design basis for Fortum's
nuclear power plants in Finland and Sweden
are proper in terms of external events. The
most important development measures at the
Loviisa power plant are related to the
planning of air-cooled cooling towers that are
independent of seawater and improved flood
protection in case of the very improbable
exceptionally high seawater level.
Planning of these measures continued, and
they will be implemented within the
framework of the annual investmentprogrammes. A decision was made to
construct a new air cooling system
independent of seawater cooling during
2014. The new system will improve the
plant's preparedness for extreme conditions
when seawater for some reason becomes
unavailable for its normal cooling function.
The cooling system
independent of sea water
to be built at Loviisa
power plant in 2014 will
improve the plant's
preparedness for
extreme events.
In Sweden, the Oskarshamn and Forsmark
plants have presented their safety
improvement plans to the Swedish Radiation
Safety Authority. The authority will require the
plants to have, e.g., independent emergency
feed water systems and a stronger focus on
analysing the aging of the plants.Development measures inDevelopment measures in
20132013
We are developing the safety of our nuclear
power plants in line with the principle of
continuous improvement. The risks related to
heavy lifts were reduced and an alternative
cable connection was added for the
emergency diesel generator engine at the
Loviisa power plant. We also launched the
Loviisa power plant's periodic extensive
safety assessment, the results of which will
be submitted to Finland's Radiation and
Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) during 2014
and 2015.
The goal of Fortum's R&D related to nuclear
power is to ensure first-rate nuclear safety
and nuclear waste management as well as
good efficiency of fuel use. In addition to its
own research programmes, Fortum
participates in Finnish national research
programmes and in the development of
Swedish nuclear power research.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
21Modernisations and capacity upgradesModernisations and capacity upgrades
The efficiency and power capacity of both units at the Loviisa nuclear power plant have been increased during
the past by the modernisation of the plant, and the work will continue during the next few years. Power
upgrades are being carried out also in our co-owned plants in Sweden.
A decision has been made to modernise the
Loviisa power plant's high-pressure turbines
in 2014–2017. Additionally, the plant's eight
moisture separators and reheaters will be
modernised in 2015-2017. The
modernisations will increase the plant's
nominal output by a total of 29 MW. These
are examples of projects we are undertaking
to ensure the reliable electricity production ofthe plant units to the end of their operational
lifetime.
Projects related to capacity upgrades
continued at the Oskarshamn and Forsmark
nuclear power plants. The test-run period of
the Forsmark 2 capacity upgrade that had
been postponed to spring 2013 was
completed as planned in May. During theyear the plant's nominal output increased
from 996 MW to 1,120 MW. Oskarshamn 2
unit was shut down at the beginning of June
to implement preparations for modifications
to improve safety and for capacity upgrades.
Reducing nuclear power's environmentalReducing nuclear power's environmental
impactsimpacts
Carbon dioxide-free nuclear power has an important role in mitigating climate change. Under normal
conditions, nuclear power production does not have any health or environmental impacts.
Nuclear power's most significant factors are
related to nuclear safety, nuclear waste
management, and the impacts of cooling
waters.
The most significant environmental impact of
a nuclear power plant during operation is the
increased water temperature in the
immediate vicinity of the plant as a result ofcooling water, when seawater cooling is used.
In 2013, the Loviisa power plant's thermal
load on the sea was 15.7 TWh. Based on
temperature measurements, the cooling
water has raised the surface water
temperature by 1-2 degrees within a 1-2
kilometre radius of the cooling water
discharge location.The thermal load on the sea could be
reduced by making the nuclear power plant a
combined heat and power plant. This would
increase the power plant's energy efficiency
by several tens of per cents. So far, this type
of solution has not been realised in any
country on a large scale.
Nuclear waste managementNuclear waste management
Both radioactive and conventional waste is generated in nuclear power production. The solutions for final
disposal of nuclear waste from the Loviisa nuclear power plant and from Fortum's co-owned nuclear power
plants are in the forefront in the world.
The waste generated in the operating of a
nuclear power plant is treated within the
sphere of either conventional (non-
radioactive) or radioactive waste
management. As in a normal work
environment, conventional waste is
generated in, e.g., the transportation of
goods and in office work. Depending on its
activity, radioactive waste is sorted into either
low-, intermediate- or high-level radioactive
waste.The Loviisa power plant's low- and
intermediate-level radioactive waste is
disposed of in the underground repository
built in the plant area. A periodic safety
assessment of the repository was made in
2013. Separate facilities for
decommissioning waste will be built in the
repository in due course. Final disposal of
decommissioning waste will be subject to an
environmental impact assessment followed
by a corresponding licensing procedure that
was carried out for the final repository for
operation and maintenance waste.The finalising of the liquid waste storage and
solidification plant continued. The plan is to
commission the solidification plant by 2016.
High-level radioactive nuclear waste will be
stored at the Loviisa power plant before it will
be disposed of in the nuclear waste final
repository to be constructed in Olkiluoto,
Eurajoki.
After use in the reactor, the fuel assemblies
are removed and stored, first in deep water
basins inside the reactor building for a few
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
22years and then in water basins in an interim
storage.
Final disposal of nuclear wasteFinal disposal of nuclear waste
In Finland and Sweden, the producers of
nuclear waste are responsible for
management and final disposal of the nuclear
waste and for the related costs.
The practical implementation of the final
disposal of spent nuclear fuel from the
Loviisa and Olkiluoto nuclear power plants is
handled by Posiva Oy , which is co-owned by
Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj. Spent
nuclear fuel will be placed in Olkiluoto's final
repository in Eurajoki. Posiva submitted its
construction licence application for a final
repository for spent nuclear fuel to the
Ministry of Employment and the Economy at
the end of 2012. During 2013, additionalreports have been submitted in response to
the special questions that emerged during
the authority's review of the construction
licence. Readiness to start the final
repository operations is estimated to be
around 2020.
In Sweden, Svensk Kärnbränslehantering AB
(SKB) handles the final disposal of the
existing plants' spent nuclear fuel. In March
2011, the company submitted an application
for a construction licence for an
encapsulation and final disposal facility; the
application is under review by the authorities.
The final repository is planned to be in
Forsmark. Disposal operations could bestarted after construction and testing period
inlate 2020's.
In 2013, Fortum updated the technical plans
and cost estimates related to nuclear waste
management in Finland. The plan and cost
estimate include also the decommissioning of
the plant.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Loviisa nuclear power plant's nuclear
liability
Nuclear consulting servicesNuclear consulting services
Fortum's nuclear expertise is recognised worldwide. We provide nuclear safety and waste management services
and system supplies in various nuclear technology areas for the nuclear power industry.
New breakthroughs were made in the
commercialisation of Fortum's nuclear power
expertise in 2013. We signed a collaboration
agreement with the Russian State Atomic
Energy Corporation ROSATOM and with the
British Rolls-Royce Plc in the area of nuclear
power development. The collaboration will
jointly investigate the feasibility of
ROSATOM's VVER-type reactors for the UK
new-build programme. During the first phase,
the partners will launch preparatory work
towards Generic Design Assessment of a
VVER-type power plant and preparations
forplant licensing. Fortum's contribution to
the project is, for example, its specialexpertise in nuclear safety and nuclear waste
management.
We also continued supplying ion exchange
materials to the American EnergySolutions
LLC in Japan. The ion exchange materials are
being used to purify the radioactive waters at
the damaged Dai-ichi power plant in
Fukushima, Japan. Since 2012, Fortum has
delivered thousands of kilos of ion exchange
materials in granulated form in order to purify
the radioactive waters of the nuclear power
plant.Fortum has delivered ion
exchange materials
worth of dozens of
million euros in order to
purify the radioactive
waters in Fukushima,
Japan.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
23Thermal energyThermal energy
Fortum produces electricity and heat from a versatile mix of fuels in thermal energy production. Most of our
thermal energy production consists of combined heat and power production (CHP) units; in addition, we have
condensing power production and heat-only boilers (HOB). In 2013, our thermal energy production was
27.0 TWh of electricity and 39.7 TWh heat.
We have 28 CHP production facilities in
Finland, Sweden, Russia, Poland, the Baltic
countries and in Great Britain. In 2013,
CHP plants accounted for 33% (2012: 32%) of
our total power production and 83% (2012:
79%) of our total heat production.
Fortum has condensing power plants in
Finland and in Russia. Fortum has two coal-fuelled condensing power plants in Finland:
Inkoo and Meri-Pori. The new gas-fuelled
Nyagan power plants in Russia are
condensing plants. In 2013, condensing
power production accounted for 6.7% of our
total power production.
Heat-only boilers serve as reserve units or
peak-load boilers during the coldest time ofthe year. Fortum has heat-only boilers in
almost all its operating countries. In 2013,
heat-only boilers accounted for 17% of our
total heat production.
Combined heat and powerCombined heat and power
Combined heat and power production (CHP) is one of the cornerstones in Fortum's strategy. We produce
energy in CHP plants in eight countries. We utilise versatile and flexible energy sources in our CHP production.
Fortum produces heat, steam and
electricity in its CHP plants. The majority of
district heat is produced at CHP plants.
Fortum's long-term aim is to replace heat-
only plants and old CHP units with new CHP
plants. In 2013, a total of four new CHP units
started production: in Järvenpää, Finland; in
Brista, Sweden; in Jelgava, Latvia; and in
Klaipeda, Lithuania. The new plants added
86MW to the production capacity of our CHPelectricity and 225 MW to our CHP heat.
Preparations for three major CHP
investments, a biomass CHP plant in
Stockholm, Sweden, and two natural gas CHP
units in Chelyabinsk, Russia, continued.
In normal operation, the Järvenpää CHP unit
uses only biomass, mostly forest chips or
forest industry by-products like saw dust and
bark. The biomass is local, typically harvested
from within 100 km of the unit. Theinvestment reduces the CO 2emissions of
heat production in the area by 70%. The plant
can also use peat or natural gas when
needed.
The Klaipeda CHP unit is the first waste-
fuelled power plant in the Baltic countries. It
uses municipal and industrial waste and
biomass. The Klaipeda CHP unit replaces old,
natural gas-fired capacity and reduces annual
CO2emissions by 100,000 tonnes.
Diverse use of fuelsDiverse use of fuels
Fortum utilises a diverse and flexible mix of
energy sources in its CHP production and
aims at increasing the use of renewable fuels .
In 2013, the fuel mix in CHP production
consisted of natural gas 76%, coal 13%,
waste-derived fuels 3%, biomass and
bioliquids 7% and peat 0.6%. Increasing the
use of bioenergy was researched and
implemented at many of Fortum's existing
power plants. Additionally, Fortum increased
the use of biomass by starting up two new
biomass-fuelled CHP plants in Järvenpää,
Finland, and in Jelgava, Latvia.
Fortum is a major user of municipal waste in
the Nordic and Baltic countries. Utilising
municipal waste is an essential part ofsustainable waste management because it
can reduce the amount of waste that would
otherwise end up in landfills. Fortum
increased the use of waste-derived fuels by
starting up two new municipal waste-fuelled
CHP plants in Klaipeda, Lithuania, and in
Brista, Sweden. CHP improves energy
efficiency
CHP has an important role in enhancing
resource efficiency, as it substantially
increases the efficiency of primary energy
use. Almost 90% of the primary energy of fuel
can be utilised in the CHP process.
The total efficiency of a CHP unit can be
further increased with a so-called CHP+solution where a third product, like liquid fuel,
is produced in addition to electricity and heat
production. An example is the pyrolysis
technology-based CHP plant in Joensuu,
Finland, which produces OTSO bio-oil and
increases the plant's efficiency due to
increasing heat production. Plant was
commissioned at the end of 2013. Bio-oil will
replace fossile-based oil in Fortum's own
heat-only boilers and in heating plants of our
customers.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
24Availability of CHP plants at aAvailability of CHP plants at a
good levelgood level
High availability enables the efficient and safe
use of a power plant, reliable energy delivery
and reduced environmental impacts. Since
the beginning of 2013, Fortum has made the
availability of its CHP plants one of its
sustainability performance indicators. In2013, the availability was 94% and the target
> 92%.
Fortum's target is to continuously improve
plant availability and reliability. Several
improvement projects are under way. For
example, an availability improvement
programme focusing on both technical
improvements and competence building was
started in Russia. The Zabrze CHP plant inPoland, started using gas instead of coal dust
in the start-ups and managed to reduce the
number of start-up's. In Sweden, the project
targeting improved plant availability through
preventive maintenance was continued.
Condensing powerCondensing power
Fortum produces condensing power in Russia, Finland and Sweden. In the Nordic countries, c ondensing power
works as peak load power and as reserve capacity for other power generation; consequently, the annual
condensing power generation also fluctuates considerably depending on the market situation.
Condensing thermal power plants
produce electricity only, and therefore the
efficiency of primary energy use (typically
40-45%) is lower than in CHP production (up
to 90%).
During 2013, Fortum operated two coal-
fuelled condensing power plants in Finland:
the Meri-Pori and Inkoo plants. Powergeneration at the Inkoo power plant ended in
February 2014.
The share of condensing power production in
Fortum's electricity production will increase
significantly in the next few years due to the
new Nyagan gas-fuelled units in Russia.
These units are located in an area where heat
production cannot be utilised on a largescale. Other Fortum plants in Russia, also
produce some condensing power.
Reducing environmental impacts of thermalReducing environmental impacts of thermal
energyenergy
Thermal energy production is based on the combustion of fuels, and its most significant environmental
impacts are related to flue-gas emissions, emissions to water, and wastes and by-products, like ash and
desulphurisation products.
The impacts of thermal energy production on
the environment can be reduced with the use
of various combustion and flue-gas cleaning
technologies and by fuel switching. The main
way to reduce the environmental impacts of
thermal energy production is to switch from
fossil fuels to renewable fuels. This reduces
especially carbon dioxide and sulphur
dioxide emissions, and, depending on the
combustion technique, there is also a
reduction in nitrogen oxide.
The overall efficiency of fuel use in CHP
production is high compared to that
ofcondensing power production. Therefore
the emissions per produced energy unit are
lower than in condensing power production,
and CHP reduces the environmental impacts.
In CHP production, the need for cooling wateris minimal and thus the thermal load into
water systems is significantly reduced.
Emissions to airEmissions to air
The environmental impacts of thermal energy
plants are regulated by plant-specific
environmental permits, which set limitations
for emissions and obligations for monitoring
and reporting emissions. In 2013, Fortum
continued preparations for the investments
needed to fulfil the new emissions
requirements set by the Industrial Emissions
Directive (IED) in the EU countries. The IED
tightens the emissions requirements for
practically all of Fortum's thermal power
plants (CHP plants and condensing power
plants) from 2016 onwards.In Russia, actions continued to use better
quality coal within technical and contractual
limitations at Fortum's thermal power
plants. Thishas resulted in reduced sulphur
dioxide and particle emissions per used ton
of coal. Boiler efficiency was improved
through boiler modifications at a couple of
power plants.
Our key environmental responsibility
indicators, specific CO 2emissions from total
energy production and efficiency of fuel use,
developed unfavourably in spite of
improvement actions. Specific CO 2emissions
from total energy production have been on a
continuous rise with the increased use of
fossil fuels during the last five years. The
emissions, however, are lower than the target
level of 200 g/kWh. The overall efficiency of
fuel use has decreased during the last five
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
25years because of increased condensing
power production, and we have not reached
our70% target.
Utilisation of waste and by-Utilisation of waste and by-
productsproducts
In 2013, the utilisation rate for ash was 48%
(2012: 51%) and for gypsum 99% (2012:
89%). Gypsum utilisation rate in 2012 has
been recalcuated based on reclassification of
desulphurisation products. At Fortum's plants
in Europe, by-products and waste are utilised
and recycled as efficiently as possible.
Gypsum is used as raw material in
theplasterboard industry. Fly ash is used in
the construction material industry, road
construction, land filling and mine filling. The
Joensuu power plant applied for a permit tobuild a noise reduction wall around the plant
area using ashes from the plant. A project to
get CE labelling for the bottom ashes from
Fortum's plants started during the year.
In Russia, ash is stored in ash basins because
there is no demand for ash utilisation.
Impact on water systems to beImpact on water systems to be
further reducedfurther reduced
The impacts of thermal power plants on water
systems result from the thermal load of
cooling water, the release of solids, and
nitrogen, phosphorus and heavy metal
emissions. Wastewater from power plants is
treated mechanically, chemically or
biologically before being released into watersystems. The wastewater from certain plants
is led into municipal wastewater networks.
In recent years, Fortum's Russian power
plants have had repeated exceedings of
wastewater permit conditions. Actions to
improve the situation continued in 2013, but
the number of exceedances remained at the
2012 level. The actions included changing
theanticorrosion agent, and separating and
reducing the water flowings through the
ashponds of the coal-fired plants. In addition
studies were started to install better oil
separation systems. Possible investment
decisions will be made in 2014.
Power distributionPower distribution
The reliable delivery of energy is a priority for Fortum. When developing the distribution network, we take into
consideration customer needs and long-term, sustainable community planning.
Fortum owns and operates regional and local
electricity networks and supplies electricity to
about 1.6 million customers in Finland,
Sweden and Norway. The total length of the
company's electricity network is
approximately 160,000 km, which is four
times the circumference of the earth. In
2013, 42.4 TWh electricity was transmitted in
Fortum's networks.In December, Fortum announced that it has
sold its electricity distribution business in
Finland to Suomi Power Networks Oy, which
is owned by a consortium of Finnish pension
funds Keva and LocalTapiola Pension
together with international infrastructure
investors First State Investments and Borealis
Infrastructure.Fortum expects to complete the divestment
process during the first quarter of 2014,
subject to the necessary regulatory approvals
as well as customary closing conditions.
Fortum is also evaluating the possible future
divestment opportunities within the electricity
distribution business country by country.
Improving reliability of electricity distributionImproving reliability of electricity distribution
Electricity distribution reliability is becoming increasingly important for society using a lot of electricity. The
needs of consumers and society alike demand efficient communications in power outages.
Fortum continuously invests in network
updates and maintenance and in further
improving security of supply. In 2013, the
Distribution business area invested a total of
EUR 260 million in Finland, Sweden and
Norway. Fortum invested in smart meters,
underground cables, overhead lines and
substations. Network automation for the
critical parts of the grid also has been
increased. Through its electricity network
investments, Fortum aims to make the
network smarter and to decrease and shorten
power outages.Legal requirements forLegal requirements for
security of supplysecurity of supply
The Electricity Market Act, that came into
force in September 2013, in Finland sets new
requirements for the security of electricity
supply. The duration of a power outage
caused by a storm cannot be longer than six
hours for urban areas and 36 hours for rural
areas.
Electricity distribution companies must meet
these requirements by 2028 at the latest. The
new Electricity Market Act, also obligatesdistribution network owners also to inform
network users in outage situations and to
provide an estimate about the duration and
extensiveness of the outage.
Several severe storms inSeveral severe storms in
autumnautumn
Finnish electricity distribution networks were
hit by four severe storms in late autumn. In
many areas the storms were of the same
magnitude as those experienced in
December 2011. As a result of the storm
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
26damage, at one point 145,000 Fortum
customers were without power. The majority
of the power outages were caused by strong
winds toppling trees onto overhead power
lines. The mild and rainy conditions in late
autumn had saturated the ground so it was
soft and the trees were susceptible to falling
onto power lines. However, the impacts on
electricity users were smaller than was the
case in the storms in 2011.
Communicating customers has improved and
the repairing of outages has become quicker.
In terms of the autumn storms, the
communication about the outage was
successful. Fortum customers received
information through e.g. text messages,
mobile applications and the website.
Due to severe storms in December, the
system average interruption duration index
(SAIDI) per customer was double our target.
The SAIDI in Fortum's network was220
minutes (2012: 103), and the customer
average interruption duration index (CAIDI)
was115 minutes (2012: 61). Fortum has set
country-specific SAIDI targets for 2014:
Sweden <100 minutes and Norway <96
minutes.Due to severe storms in
December the system
average interruption
duration per customer
was double our target.
Construction of weather-proofConstruction of weather-proof
network continuesnetwork continues
In 2012, Fortum launched the VahvaVerkko
project in Finland aiming to improve reliability
of electricity distribution. The target is to
have about 280,000 Fortum customers
(almost half of our customers) within the
scope of weather-proof electricity distribution
in Finland by the end of 2014. The long-term
goal is to cut the number of power outages in
half and to double the number of customers
currently within the scope of weather-proof
distribution in Finland by 2020.
Decisions on this long-term project will be
made by Suomi Power Networks Oy. Fortum
signed a contract on the sales of thedistribution network in Finland with Suomi
Power Networks Oy in December 2013.
In Sweden, the SäkraNät network investment
programme launched in 2006 continued. The
initial target of the programme was to cut the
outage times for Fortum's customers in the
rural network areas by half in five years. This
target was reached in 2010 but the
programme is still continuing. By the end of
2013, approximately 740,000 Fortum's
customers (82% of customers) in Sweden live
in areas with a weather-proof electricity
distribution network.
In addition to underground cabling, the
reliability of electricity distribution will be
improved by moving power lines from the
forests to the roadsides and by increasing
electricity distribution automation. It is easier
and faster to repair power lines that run along
roads than those in the middle of a forest.
With electricity distribution automation, fault
locations can be isolated as quickly as
possible and power restored to customers
outside the area affected by the fault.
Smart meteringSmart metering
The installation of smart meters for customers is a significant step towards demand-side management. The
modern network enables customers to track and actively influence their consumption.
A smart grid gives electricity users better
opportunities to influence their own energy
consumption. In essence, this means flexible
electricity transmission that adjusts to
demand fluctuations. In the third quarter of
2013, Fortum finalised the installations of
smart electricity meters for its approximately620,000 electricity network customers in
Finland.
In Sweden, Fortum already finalised the
installations of new meters for all its
customers. The installation of new meters in
Norway is planned to begin in 2015. A totalof 100,000 households and small businesses
in Fortum's electricity network area will be
connected to the new system by 2018.
Reduction of environmental impactsReduction of environmental impacts
Construction, use and maintenance of the energy distribution network impact the surrounding environment.
Environmental impacts are reduced through careful operational planning and technology solutions and by
practicing environmentally benign ways of operating.
When planning an electricity distribution
network, the impacts on land use, the
landscape and nature are taken into
consideration. Through the planning, zoning
and permit processes, the aim is to find the
best solution for society for securing
electricity distribution.In the construction phase of a distribution
network, environmental impacts are caused
by e.g. the removal of trees, and by
construction traffic, noise and dust. Waste
and environmental aspects are taken into
consideration in the contractor selection
process, and environmental impacts arereduced through careful operational planning
and by practicing environmentally benign
ways of operating.
The distribution network is inspected,
maintained and renewed regularly.
Improvements in electricity distribution
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
27reliability are achieved with underground
cabling, the use of isolated overhead lines, by
moving power lines from the forests to the
roadsides and public areas whenever
possible, by clearing power line corridors and
by introducing automation in critical parts of
the network.
Underground cabling also protects
biodiversity and reduces the impact on the
landscape and birds. Bird collisions arereduced by mounting marker balls on
overhead lines and landing perches on poles.
Efforts are made to recycle waste material
that is created in the construction and
renewal of distribution networks. In 2013,
Fortum's distribution operations created
3,900 tonnes of waste, 75% of which was
recycled and 25% was disposed of in landfills.
Contaminated soil areas from transformer oil
leaks are cleaned as quickly as possible. Newtransformers sit on oil trays to prevent oil
from seeping into the environment in the
event of an accident. In Norway, the aim is to
use biodegradeable oil in transformers
located in groundwater areas.
Heat distributionHeat distribution
Heat produced in CHP plants and heat-only boilers is transferred to consumers in the district heat network.
Smart metering and control systems as well as open, two-way district heat networks are new types of solutions
in the development of heat distribution.
Fortum owns and operates about 1,200 km
of district heat network in Finland, 2,400 km
in Sweden, 860 km in Poland, 300 km in the
Baltic countries and 480 km in Russia.
Additionally, in Stockholm Fortum owns the
world's most extensive district cooling
network, which consists of 204 km and has a
capacity of 350 MW. In Espoo, Fortum also
has a small local district cooling network
of1.5 km.
The environmental impacts of district heat
distribution occur in the network construction
phase. They are temporary in nature and
common to other construction projects in
society. With the exception of occasional
water leaks, there are no environmental
impacts arising from the use of district heat
networks.
Uninterrupted heat deliveryUninterrupted heat delivery
An uninterrupted supply of district heat is
important, particularly in the cold weatherconditions of the North. Fortum is
continuously improving the reliability of its
district heat networks by repairing faults
found during scheduled maintenance and by
investing in new network when needed.
As a result of interruptions caused by various
reasons, district heat customers in the Nordic
countries are without heat supply for only 1-2
hours per year on average. About half of the
interruptions are caused by damage to the
network and the work to repair it, and half are
for some other reason, like network
refurbishment work and connecting new
customers to the district heat network. In
general, new connections and district heat
network branching can be implemented
without interrupting heat distribution. When
doing repair work that will cause an
interruption in distribution, the aim is to
schedule the work outside the heating
season.Reduction of heat losses inReduction of heat losses in
RussiaRussia
In Russia, Fortum produces more than 90% of
the heat demand of the cities Tyumen,
Chelyabinsk, Tobolsk and Ozersk. Fortum is
aiming to build modern and energy-efficient
heat distribution systems in the cities within
its operating area. Refurbishment measures
can reduce heat losses from district heat
networks by 20-30%.
Fortum continued the modernisation of the
Chelyabinsk district heat network
infrastructure in 2013. Development of a
modern heat distribution network also
continued in Tyumen.
Smart meteringSmart metering
Smart metering and control systems give also heat network customers the opportunity to influence their own
heat consumption. With smart meters, consumption data is received in real-time and heat consumption
monitoring is more efficient.
All Fortum's district heat customers in
Finland and Poland are within the sphere of
smart metering. In Sweden, the majority ofcustomers are also within the sphere of smart
metering. In Latvia and Estonia, the target isto finalise the automated meter reading
system by the end of 2014.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
28Open district-heat networkOpen district-heat network
Making the district-heat networks two-way enables consumers to sell the surplus heat to the network. Utilising
theheat that would otherwise be lost reduces energy costs and the carbon footprint of the energy system.
The opening of the district-heat network is
technically simple and does not require any
major investments. The biggest change is in
thebusiness logic and mind-set. An open
district-heat network makes it easier to
use,for example, solar energy in heat
production. Buildings, industrial processes
and production plants generate a lot of wasteheat, and individual households sometimes
produce surplus heat energy.
The open district heating launched by Fortum
in Stockholm, Sweden, is a novel solution for
heat recovery and energy recycling. The
recovered energy is used to heat residential
homes and to produce hot tap water across
the city.In Espoo, Finland, Fortum has launched the
nation's first open district-heat network pilot.
Fortum's new energy solution enables the
use of waste heat from the Espoo Hospital in
the district heating of the city. This solution
reduces the environmental impact of district
heating.
Electricity and heat salesElectricity and heat sales
Fortum sells electricity and heat to private and business customers. More and more customers are requiring a
guarantee of origin for the electricity they buy, i.e. information about the way the electricity is produced.
Fortum is one of the leading sellers of CO 2-free and guarantee-of-origin-labelled electricity in the Nordic
countries.
Fortum is one of the leading electricity sales
companies in the Nordic countries. The
company markets and sells electricity to
1.2million customers in Sweden, Finland and
Norway. In 2013, the company sold a total
of12.1 terawatt-hours (TWh) of electricity
(2012: 12.1).
Fortum's heat sales were 43.1 TWh (2012:
46.1). Fortum is the Nordic countries' leadingseller of district heat. In all Fortum sells
district heat in eight countries and has
40,000 district heat customers. In Russia the
company has more than 250 major
customers, mainly industry and residential
housing companies.
The new smart solutions Fortum has
launched in the markets in recent years give
customers better opportunities to controltheir electricity consumption and reduce their
costs. As a small-scale producer, a user of
Fortum's solar panel kit can sell the surplus
electricity to Fortum. The Fortum Fiksu
product sold in Finland, decreases customer
costs by choosing the day's lowest hourly
spot prices to heat the water boiler.
Climate-benign electricity productsClimate-benign electricity products
In 2013, all electricity sold to private
customers in Finland was CO 2-free, produced
by hydropower and wind power. The origin of
hydropower and wind power was guaranteed
with European Guarantees of Origin or with
the EKOenergy label of the Finnish
Association for Nature Conservation.
In 2013, all electricity in Sweden was sold
with an environmental value. Customers canchoose either the Fortum Enkel product,
which is electricity produced from a mix of
wind power and hydropower, or they can
choose either wind or hydropower. The
Fortum Enkel product has the Swedish
Society for Nature Conservation's Good
Environmental Choice (Bra Miljöval) label.
Electricity sold as a 100% wind power or
hydropower product is based on the
European Guarantee of Origin certificate.In Sweden, customers who don't choose eco-
labelled electricity receive electricity
produced with nuclear power, which is
carbon dioxide-free in the production phase.
Also customers in Norway are offered CO 2-
free electricity produced 100% with
renewable energy.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
29Climate-benign heat productsClimate-benign heat products
Fortum sells heat to companies,
municipalities and private customers. Fortum
is a leading provider of heat in Nordic
countries and fifth largest in the world. In
2013, Fortum sold 43.1 TWh of heat, of
which 24.1 TWh in Russia.
A climate-neutral heat product is available for
district heating customers in Finland andSweden. This product allows customers to
purchase international emission reduction
units and offset the greenhouse gas
emissions of district heating.
In 2013, Fortum introduced new products for
district heating customers in Sweden and
Finland. Customers and co-ops can now
choose between different products based ontheir consumption profile and preferences.
New service and maintenance products for
the district heating system were also
introduced in 2013.
Energy-efficiency products and servicesEnergy-efficiency products and services
In 2013, Fortum continued to offer new
products and services that improve energy-
efficiency.
The Fortum Kotinäyttö (home display) shows
the household's electricity consumption in
real-time. Real-time information makes it
possible to identify the most significant
opportunities to save energy.
Two Fortum Fiksu products were launched in
2013. One of the products is targeted at
customers who have electric hot water
heating. The product automatically shifts the
heating of the water boiler to the hours whentheelectricity price is lowest. This levels out
consumption peaks and helps customers to
reduce their electricity bill. An electricity
agreement with hourly-based pricing makes it
possible to take advantage of the lowest
hourly rates.
In October 2013, a new version of Fortum
Fiksu was introduced for oil heaters. Fortum
Fiksu for oil heating switches the heating
system hour by hour between oil and
electricity depending on which energy form
ischeaper at that time.Customers can also buy solar panels from
Fortum. With the Fortum Aurinkopaketti
(solar kit) connected to the grid, customers
can produce some or all of their electricity
and sell the produced electricity exceeding
their own consumption to Fortum at a Nordic
wholesale electricity price.
Fortum actively promotes the adoption of
electric vehicles and develops solutions that
enable the smart charging of electric vehicle
batteries based on the electricity market
situation and price.
PurchasingPurchasing
Fortum is a significant purchaser of goods and services. Investments and fuels make up a big part of Fortum's
purchases. In 2013, Fortum had about 13,300 suppliers of goods and services (2012: 15,200). Our
purchasing volume was EUR 4.1 billion (2012: 4.2).
Of our purchases, EUR 1.3 billion (2012: 1.6),
targeted investments. The biggest
investments were made in Sweden (EUR 497
million) and Russia (EUR 435 million).
Along with investments, fuels
(EUR 1,085 million in 2013) make up a
significant part of Fortum's purchases. We
purchase fuels from international and local
suppliers. Our fossil fuel purchases totalled
about EUR 864 million (2012: 910), biomass
and bioliquids about EUR 155 million (2012:
130), and nuclear fuel about EUR 66 million
(2012: 20).
The rest of our purchases (EUR 1.7 billion in
2013) consist of other operational goods and
services. The figure includes electricity
purchased by the Electricity Sales business
area from the Nordic wholesale electricitymarket for retail sales. Purchases of other
goods and services are related to those used
in operation and maintenance and to other
services, like IT, marketing and travel.
More than half of the purchasing volume,
excluding the purchases from the Nordic
wholesale electricity market, was purchased1,284
1,0851,688
Investments (1,284) Fuels (1,085)
Other purchases (1,688)Purchases, EUR million
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
30from suppliers operating in Europe, mostly in
Finland, Sweden and Poland. This does not
include electricity purchases from the Nordic
wholesale market. About 40% of the totalvolume of purchases came from risk
countries. These purchases mainly consisted
of fuel purchases and the Russia Division's
local purchases in Russia.
Purchases1)excluding investments in 2011-2013
EUR million 2013 2012 2011
Nordic countries 1,685 1,612 1,903
Russia 813 769 692
Poland 143 161 148
Estonia 29 36 64
Other countries 103 99 44
Total 2,773 2,677 2,851
1)Includes purchases of fuel, power and other materials and services.
InvestmentsInvestments
In 2013, Fortum continued its strategy-based investments in energy-efficient combined heat and power
production and carbon dioxide-free energy forms.
In 2013, Fortum's capital expenditures and
investments in shares totalled EUR 1,299
million (2012: 1,574). Investments, excluding
acquisitions, were EUR 1,284 million (2012:
1,558), of which EUR 449 million (2012: 482)
targeted CO 2-free* production. During the
year biomass-fuelled CHP plants were
inaugurated in Järvenpää and Jelgava, and
waste-fuelled CHP plants in Brista and
Klaipeda. In addition, a bio-oil production
plant was commissioned at the Joensuu CHP
plant.In hydropower, Fortum continued
refurbishments of its hydropower plants in
Finland and Sweden.
Fortum acquired the Amrit Solar power
station in India. Two gas-fired power plant
units in Nyagan were commissioned as part
of Fortum's investment programme in Russia
in 2013.
In 2013, investments in nuclear power
continued through capacity upgrades at our
co-owned plants at Forsmark andOskarshamn in Sweden. In Finland, Fortum
participates in Teollisuuden Voima Oy's
Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant, which is
under construction, and in the Olkiluoto 4
project, which is in the design phase. These
are financed mainly with shareholder loans.
Fortum's investments in 2013, are described
in detail in the Financials .
*)includes: hydro, nuclear, wind, wave and solar
power as well as electricity and heat production from
bioenergy and waste-derived fuels.
Sustainable management of supply chainSustainable management of supply chain
Fortum expects its business partners to act responsibly and to comply with the Fortum Code of Conduct and
Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2013, Fortum continued sustainability-related supplier audits. Altogether 13
audits were conducted.
TheFortum Code of Conduct provides the
basis for ethical business conduct, and
Fortum's Supplier Code of Conduct sets the
basic sustainability requirements for suppliers
of services and goods. The Supplier Code of
Conduct is based on the principles of the
United Nations Global Compact and is
divided into four sections: business practices,
human rights, labour standards and the
environment. The Supplier Code of Conductis implemented in all Fortum's operating
countries and is included in purchase
agreements exceeding EUR 50,000. In the
Russia Division suppliers must sign a
commitment to follow the Supplier Code of
Conduct, in order to be able to participate in
competitive negotiations.
Fortum has been a member of the Bettercoal
initiative since 2012. The aim of theBettercoal initiative is to promote the
principles of sustainable development in coal
mining. Bettercoal Code, adopted in 2013,
sets expectations for ethical, social and
environmental performance in coal
production. In coal purchasing, Fortum
follows the principles defined in the
Bettercoal Code.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
31In 2013, several activities, including the
renewal of relevant corporate instructions,
definition of common EHS requirements and
development of the contractor evaluation
process, were carried out to improve
contractor EHS management.
Pre-selection and supplierPre-selection and supplier
audits to support assessmentaudits to support assessment
We assess the level of operations of our
business partners through pre-selection and
supplier audits. Pre-selection includes a
supplier questionnaire and verification of
credit. The supplier questionnaire is used to
identify general and sustainability-related
practices, and it helps suppliers to
understand Fortum's expectations for
compliance with the Supplier Code of
Conduct. The supplier questionnaire also
helps to identify potential high-risk suppliers
and thus the need for further actions. In 2014
the aim is to harmonise Russia Division's pre-
selection with the Corporate instructions.
The audit assesses the supplier's compliance
with the requirements in Fortum's Supplier
Code of Conduct. Audits are always done on-
site and they include production inspection,
employee interviews and review of
documents and records. If non-compliances
are found, the supplier makes a plan for
corrective actions and we monitor the
implementation of it.From non-compliances toFrom non-compliances to
corrective actionscorrective actions
In 2013, Fortum's goal was to audit three
risk-country or otherwise risky suppliers in
each division. Fortum's classification of risk
countries is based on the ILO's Decent Work
Agenda, the UN Human Development Index,
and Transparency International's Corruption
Perceptions Index. Altogether thirteen audits
were conducted and they included suppliers
both in risk and non-risk countries who are
either in a direct contractual relation
withFortum or act as a subcontractor to
Fortum's supplier. The goal was reached in all
divisions except ESD. In the ESD Division,
audits were not started due to the
assessment of the electricity distribution
business future alternatives.
The most significant non-compliances
brought out in the supplier audits were
related to occupational safety, overtime
hours and management of sub-suppliers.
Based on the audit results, in some cases, an
agreement with a supplier has not been
renewed or the co-operation with the supplier
has been put on hold until the supplier has
made the needed improvements. In June
2013, an audit conducted on a contractor
revealed significant shortcomings and the
work was put on hold immediately until the
major shortcomings were corrected. A re-
audit of the contractor was conducted at the
end of summer to assure that the corrective
actions were done.The most significant
non-compliances brought
out in the supplier audits
were related to
occupational safety,
overtime hours and
management of sub-
suppliers.
In 2014, Fortum will continue with the
supplier audits; the goal is to audit at least
fifteen suppliers or partners. Contractors will
also be within the scope of the audits.
Suppliers to be audited will be selected based
on risk or significance of the contract.
Own personnel as auditorsOwn personnel as auditors
Fortum's own personnel are responsible for
the supplier audits. Auditors receive 1.5 days
of internal training, during which they review
the requirements of the Supplier Code of
Conduct, the sub-areas to be audited, and
the tools to be used to verify compliance with
the requirements. After the training, supplier
audits are started together with an
experienced auditor. Our goal is to train
auditors from different divisions and
operating countries. In 2013, we trained a
total of 11 auditors from Poland and Sweden.
In addition, five persons have received
auditor training on the Social Accountability
(SA8000) standard.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
32Supplier audits conducted by Fortum 2013Supplier audits conducted by Fortum 2013
Responsible fuel purchasingResponsible fuel purchasing
Fuels represent a significant purchasing category at Fortum, EUR 1,085 million in 2013 (2012: 1,057).
Increasing attention is being paid to the origin and responsible production of the fuels in purchasing.
Natural gasNatural gas
The natural gas used in Fortum's operations
in Russia, the Baltic countries and Finland
originated from Russia, where the gas is
purchased from several suppliers. Gas used
in Poland originated mainly from Russia, but
part of the gas was sourced from Poland. Gas
used in Sweden's operations originated from
Norway. In Great Britain, Fortum purchases
natural gas from the national gas network
and it originates mostly from the Britain and
Norwegian gas fields in the North Sea.
CoalCoal
All of the coal used by Fortum in Finland and
Sweden originated from Russia despite one
shipment from Poland. Coal used in Poland
mainly originated from Poland, but there were
also small amounts imported from the Czech
Republic. Fortum's Russian power plants
used coal from Russia and Kazakhstan.
Fortum has been a member of the Bettercoal
initiative since 2012. The aim of the initiative
is to promote the principles of sustainable
development in coal mining. In 2013,Bettercoal reached a major milestone as a
new code was adopted by the members of
the organisation. The Code sets expectations
for ethical, social and environmental
performance in coal production. The
compliance will be assured by the supplier's
self-assessment, which were started at year-
end 2013, and mine assessments performed
by independent third-party assessors.
Fortum's representatives tested the self-
assessment tool with a Polish coal supplier at
year-end 2013.
Biomass and bioliquidsBiomass and bioliquids
The majority (95%) of the biomass used by
Fortum consisted of wood pellets, wood chips
and industrial wood residues that originated
from Finland, Sweden and Estonia. Other
types of biofuels were acquired from, for
example, Brazil and Malaysia.
Fortum has recognised the challenges related
to the origin of biomass and other biofuels
and develops measures to verify the
traceability and sustainability of fuels. In
2013, a verification system was established
for the bio-oil production in the bio-oil plant
integrated with Fortum's Joensuu powerplant. The compliance with sustainability
criteria according to the law of biofuels and
bio liquids is proven through the verification
system. It is estimated that the Energy
Authority will approve the system in the first
quarter of 2014.
Fortum actively
participates globally in
the dialogue about
responsible fuel
purchasing with
companies in the sector
and with stakeholders.
The Dutch non-governmental organisation
SOMO published a report in June 2013
discussing the biomass purchasing policies
and the transparency regarding the origin of
biomass in the energy companies operating
in the Netherlands. Based on the report
Fortum evaluated its practices and considers
them sufficient for the time being. Fortum's
goal in 2014 is to start gathering data on the
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
33volume of certified wood-based biomass used
as fuel in Finland and Sweden.
In Sweden, Fortum's subsidiary Fortum
Värme is a participant in the WWF Global
Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) through
GFTN Sweden. Additionally, Fortum Värme
has been a member of the Roundtable of
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) since 2005 and
became a member of the Forest Stewardship
Council (FSC) in 2012.UraniumUranium
The fuel assemblies used at Loviisa's power
plant are completely of Russian origin. The
fuel supplier acquires the uranium used in the
fuel assemblies from various mines. The Dalur
uranium mine received ISO 14001
environmental certification in September
2012. The supplier's goal is to get
certification also for the other mines
supplying uranium to Fortum. The zirconium
material manufacturing plant and the plant
responsible for manufacturing uranium oxide
pellets and fuel assemblies also have ISO
14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification.Fortum carries out regular reviews of the
quality, environmental, and health and safety
management systems of its nuclear fuel
suppliers and the manufacturing of nuclear
fuel assemblies. In summer 2013, as in the
previous year, Fortum's experts reviewed the
fuel supplier's uranium mine in Russia. The
Krasnokamensk mine (JSC PIMCU) strives for
certification of management systems for
quality, environment, and occupational health
and safety by the end of 2015. In 2013, the
mine focused on developing its occupational
health and safety systems based on the
DuPont model.
Origin of fuels used at Fortum in 20131)
Fuel Country of origin
Biomass Sweden, Finland, Estonia
Coal Russia, Poland, Kazakhstan, Czech Republic
Natural gas Russia, Great Britain, Norway
Uranium Russia
Oil Russia
Peat Finland, Estonia
1)The biggest countries of origin based on the purchasing volumes in 2013
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
34Generating economic value forGenerating economic value for
stakeholdersstakeholders
Fortum is a significant economic actor in Finland, Sweden, Russia, Poland, Norway and the Baltic countries.
We continuously monitor the impact and added welfare of our operations.
The most significant direct monetary flows of
Fortum's operations come from sales
revenue from customers, procurements from
suppliers, compensation to investors and
shareholders, growth and maintenance
investments, employee wages and salaries,
and payments of taxes.
Our operations also have indirect economic
impacts. The Finnish State owns 50.8% of
Fortum's shares, and we contribute to a
functioning society by, among other
things, paying taxes and dividends. These
secure the basic functioning of Finnishsociety and build well-being. Investments and
the procurement of goods and services
provide employment both locally and outside
our operating areas. The wages and taxes
paid have a positive impact on local
communities.
The graphic beside presents Fortum's
monetary flows by stakeholder group in 2013
and examples of the generation of added
value. With mouse-over on the stakeholder
groups you can find additional information on
Fortum's direct and indirect economic
impacts on different stakeholders.Taxes borne in our
operating countries
totalled EUR 644 million
in 2013. The largest
share of taxes borne was
for the state of Sweden,
EUR 382 million.
Generation of added valueGeneration of added value
(values from 2012 in parenthesis)(values from 2012 in parenthesis)
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
35PersonnelPersonnel
•Operations are concentrated to the
Nordic countries, Russia and the Baltic
rim area
•Fortum employed an average of 10,246
(10,600) people
•Fortum develops the competence and
performance of its employees through
skills and leadership training and through
job rotation
•Wages and bonuses impact private
consumption, and taxes paid by
personnel have an impact on the
generation of social well-being
Public sectorPublic sector
•Fortum's income, property and
production taxes totaled about EUR 588
(587) million
•Support for society totaled about EUR 3.2
(5.8) million
•Fortum supports social development and
well-being by paying taxes and social
security costs
•Fortum supports research in the natural,
economic and technical sciences within
the energy sector
Investors and shareholdersInvestors and shareholders
•132,072 (124,451) shareholders, the
Finnish State owns 50.8% of Fortum
•Dividends EUR 888 (888) million were
paid
•About 73.8% of dividends was paid to
Finnish shareholders•Fortum's total shareholder returns have
outperformed its European peers during a
five-year period
•The dividend income on the Finnish
state's shares has an impact on
maintaining both short- and long-term
social welfare
InvestmentsInvestments
•Majority of growth was made in Heat and
Russia Divisions
•Almost all of the planned investments in
Europe target CO 2-free production
•Maintenance, productivity and legislation-
based investments were EUR 794 (848)
million
•Growth investments were EUR 492 (588)
million
•Research and development expenditure
was EUR 49 (41) million
•Fortum's investments develop e.g. safety,
production capacity, energy efficiency,
local infrastructure and electricity
distribution reliability
•Fortum's investments create business
opportunities as well as jobs for suppliers
of goods and services
SuppliersSuppliers
•Fortum refines natural energy sources
into electricity and heat
•Fortum purchases fuels, goods, and
services from local and and global
suppliers
•About half of the goods and services
Fortum purchases are from suppliers
operating in Europe•Uranium, gas and majority of coal were
purchased from Russia in 2013
•Collaboration creates jobs for suppliers
and unlocks business opportunities in the
Nordic, Baltic, Polish and Russian
markets
•Collaboration, networking and
partnerships increase Fortum's
intellectual capital, enable a wide project
base and support the successful
throughput of R&D projects
CustomersCustomers
•Fortum offers electricity, heating, cooling
and town gas as well as related expert
services
•Fortum has 1.2 million private and
business customers and 1.6 million
electricity distribution customers in the
Nordic countries. Wholesale electricity
market customers in Russia.
•Fortum has district heat customers in
eight countries and tens of cities
•Fortum knows the markets it operates in
and develops competitive products and
services for its customers
•The services and environmentally-benign
products Fortum offers help to improve
energy efficiency and reduce both costs
and emissions
•Fortum develops smart grids that support
sustainable community planning
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
36Fortum as a tax payerFortum as a tax payer
Fortum's policy is to pay taxes on the production, employment, property and earnings of each of the Group's
businesses in accordance with each country's local regulations.
Fortum operates in competitive markets
where legal certainty and flexibility are both
important for the business. Fortum's
taxmanagement follows these same
priorities. The Group's tax principles support
the commercial operations of the Group, and
the implications for all taxes are considered
early in the business and decision making
process. Tax is one factor that is taken into
account when making business decisions in
order to achieve business targets and a
balanced tax position.
Fortum's operations in the various operating
countries are driven by the commercial and
operational objectives of the Group and the
need to operate the business effectively and
efficiently. Fortum's corporate functions are
based in EU countries - except for Guernsey,
where Fortum has a fully owned captive
insurance company, and the Cayman Islands,
where Fortum has a stake in the Nature
Elements Asia Renewable Energy and
Cleantech Fund L.P.
As part of safeguarding its shareholders'
interests, Fortum takes steps to mitigate tax
uncertainty by seeking tax rulings and taking
other legal action to protect its position. Theoverall aim is to organise all taxes to be able
to meet future challenges and to avoid
surprises. Tax-related uncertainties are
assessed annually in line with the Group's
taxprinciples.
Tax governanceTax governance
The Corporate Tax Team instructs and guides
the business units in all tax matters in line
with agreed tax principles. The business units
are required to follow the guidance and
controls, including risk assessments, and
reviews are in place to monitor compliance.
The key findings and actions around
taxissues and tax risks are reported annually
to Fortum's risk and audit committee.
Tax environmentTax environment
The current economic situation in Fortum's
key operating countries has created an
unstable tax environment leading to
increasing or new taxes. Interpretations of
existing tax laws may also change
surprisingly. This in turn has led tounexpected challenges for Fortum in the way
the Group is organised and how its
operations are taxed. Where there is
uncertainty, Fortum seeks to maintain its
position in line with its tax principles and
tohave dialogue with the tax authorities
where they have differing interpretations of
the law.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Subsidiaries by segment
•On-going tax appeals
•Public affairs
For every EUR 1 of
corporate tax, Fortum
pays EUR 1.69 other
taxes.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
37Tax contribution to societyTax contribution to society
Fortum is a large tax payer in its main
operating countries of Finland and Sweden.
Fortum also pays several different taxes in
other countries where it does business.
Fortum's total tax contribution is material
astaxes borne and collected have a direct
impact on the area where Fortum's
operations are located.
Fortum makes all reasonable efforts to
comply with tax rules for all the taxes that it
pays in all the countries where it operates so
that the Group makes an appropriate
contribution to the communities where it
does business.
Statutory corporate income tax rates have
recently decreased in Finland, Sweden and in
some other Fortum's operating countries.
Meanwhile, especially real estate taxes have
been increasing in Sweden. Changes in
statutory corporate income tax create
bigfluctuations in the effective tax rate, even
though the total tax rate is steadily
increasing.
For 2013, Fortum's effective tax rate, was
14.7% (2012: 4.7%) and the total tax rate
33.8% (2012: 29%).
Read more aboutRead more about
•Income tax Other payments to and fromOther payments to and from
the public sectorthe public sector
In addition to taxes borne and taxes
collected, Fortum has other compulsory tax-
like payments to the public sector, payments
thatare not compensation related to any
service or commodity. For example, in 2013
Fortum had EUR 56 million (2012: 55) in
compulsory pension contributions foremployees. Fortum has alsoreceived
financial support from the public sector in the
form of production-related subsidies,
investments, R&D and other significant grants
(over EUR 0.5 million) worth EUR 9million
(2012: 3). The figure excludes free
emission allowances and electricity
certificates.
Fortum is also a significant dividend payer.
The Board of Directors' proposal to increase
the dividend for 2013 by 10% would result in
EUR 89 million more in income for the State
of Finland.
Tax transparencyTax transparency
Fortum aims for improved transparency in tax
reporting and increased understanding of the
Group's tax footprint. The company makes all
reasonable efforts to communicate relevant
tax related information accurately and at the
correct time to tax authorities, investors and
other stakeholders. Fortum recognises the
importance of open communication about its
main tax-related information, such as audits
and appeals.36.9
29.46.526.60.6
Corporate income tax (36.9)
Production taxes (29.4)
Employment taxes (6.5)
Taxes on property (26.6)
Cost of indirect taxes (0.6)36.2
13.545.15.2
Net VAT (36.2) Payroll taxes (13.5)
Excise taxes (45.1)
Withholding taxes (5.2)
Taxes borne by country and type in 2013, %
1.1 0.1 1.5 1.0 0.0 0.0 2.2 1.6
7.3
34.3
71.366.80.2
26.00.0
10.11.6
7.6
18.412.137.7
35.50.0
9.8
29.7
34.8
8.812.55.8
6.90.0
6.4
60.3
23.1
0.07.656.3
31.697.7
72.1
Cost of indirect taxes Taxes on property Employment taxes Production taxes Corporate income taxFinland Sweden Russia Poland Estonia Norway Netherlands Othercountries020406080100
19.1
18.5
27.235.2
Dividend distribution, Finnish State (19.1)
Dividend distribution, Other shareholders (18.5)
Taxes borne (27.2)
Taxes collected (35.2)Taxes borne, % Taxes collected, %
Economic value distribution, %
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
38Read more aboutRead more about
•Deferred income taxes
•Press releases
Taxes borne in 2012-2013
Finland Sweden Russia Poland Estonia Norway NetherlandsOther
countries Total
EUR million 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Corporate income tax1)105 97 89 93 -1 1 1 2 1 1 2 0 31 7 11 2 239 203
Production taxes2)51 49 133 140 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 188 193
Employment taxes 3 4 29 28 5 4 1 1 1 1 2 2 0 0 2 1 43 41
Taxes on property 13 12 131 86 19 19 5 5 0 0 1 1 0 0 2 2 171 125
Cost of indirect taxes 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 3 3
Total 174 164 382 347 25 26 8 9 2 2 5 3 32 8 16 6 644 565
Excluding custom duties
1)Corporate income tax includes current taxes booked as cost for the year and adjustments to the previous year's current taxes.
2)Production taxes include also production taxes and taxes on property paid through electricity purchased from associated companies.
Taxes collected in 2012-2013
Finland Sweden Russia Poland Estonia Norway NetherlandsOther
countries Total
EUR million 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Sales VAT 455 543 861 767 370 324 49 60 19 14 56 50 1 1 48 45 1,859 1,804
VAT on Purchases 403 488 657 608 373 328 35 51 14 18 35 38 0 2 43 67 1,560 1,600
Net VAT3)52 55 204 159 0 0 14 9 5 0 21 12 1 0 5 0 302 235
Payroll taxes 52 54 39 41 11 10 3 4 0 1 3 3 0 0 5 4 113 117
Excise taxes 158 156 181 166 0 0 0 0 0 0 35 33 0 0 2 2 376 357
Withholding taxes 42 39 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 43 40
Total 304 304 424 366 11 10 18 14 5 1 59 48 1 0 12 6 834 749
3)If net VAT is negative, included as zero. In 2012 Fortum reported VAT in the table as gross amount for input and output VAT. The gross amount of taxes collected was EUR 3,918
million in 2012.
Annual Report 2013 Our business
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
39Fortum interacts with millions of people through its business operations. Collaboration and dialogue with
different stakeholder groups helps us to assess and meet the expectations that important stakeholder groups
have towards our company. We report openly about the stakeholder collaboration and impacts of our
operations.
Important stakeholdersImportant stakeholders
Local communities' expectations Fortum's actions
•Plant safety
•Elimination of noise and emissions
•Safeguarding biodiversity and recreational use of nature
•Support and donations to local communities
•Dialogue and collaboration•Management of ourrisks and operating in line with our Code of
Conduct , policies and instructions
•Infrastructure and plant safety investments
•Good employer and neighbour
•Active and open communication
•Meetings with local residents and customers
•Support for local community activities
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
40Customers' expectations Fortum's actions
Customer relationship and products
•Safe and reliable electricity company
•Good service
•Fair pricing; straightforward and accurate billing
•Support for efficient and smart energy use, environmentally
benign products
Energy production and distribution
•Delivery reliability of energy
•Efficient energy production
•Responsible operations in society
•Real time disturbance communicationOur products and customer relationship management
•Products that meet customer needs
•Striving for safe, easy and long-term relationship
•Customer service development
•Services including web, social media and mobile
•Energy-conservation instructions and energy-efficiency services
•Origin-labelled electricity
•Climate-benign heat products
•Product developments with customers
Energy production and distribution, and our activities in society
•Distribution network improvements
•Effective disturbance communication
•Use of environmentally benign forms of energy
•Investments in energy efficiency
Services and goods suppliers' expectations Fortum's actions
Fortum's business operations
•Good financial position and ability to take care of the agreed
obligations
•Responsible operations
•Good reputation (e.g. Fortum as a good customer reference)
Business relations with suppliers
•Fair and equal treatment of suppliers
•Long-term business relations
•Development of suppliers' business and products/servicesFortum's business and purchasing principles
•Compliance with the Fortum Code of Conduct , regulations and
agreements
•Professional purchasing process consistent with good purchasing
principles (including public procurements)
•Supplier pre-selection and audits
•Monitoring of reputation development
Supplier relationship management
•Systematic supplier relationship management
•Category management model in use for most significant
purchasing categories
•Joint development projects with suppliers and creation of new
business opportunities for our suppliers
General public's expectations Fortum's actions
•Activities for the good of society
•Fair pricing
•Transparency
•Reasonable financial returns and fairness in management
remuneration•Tax payment and development of the energy sector to meet
society’s needs
•Active and open communication
•Remuneration complies with the Cabinet Committee guidelines
and principles
•Support to non-profit activities
Media's expectations Fortum's actions
•Relevant, reliable and transparent communication •Active and open communication
•Easily accessible through media desk
•Continuous development of crisis communication preparedness
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
41Non-governmental organisations' expectations Fortum's actions
•Operational responsibility
•Environmentally benign investments
•Promoting renewable/efficient energy production
•Collaboration projects, open interaction and dialogue
•Reliable reporting•Active and open communication
•Publishing tax footprint
•Collaboration with Finnish and Swedish nature conservation
associations regarding our environmentally benign electricity
products
•Collaboration in responsible procurement of wood fuel material
and in sponsorship projects
•Monitoring of NGO activities and engagement in dialogue
•Third-party assurance of reports
Personnel's expectations Fortum's actions
Employment relationship
•Job security
•Equal treatment
•Performance-based wages
Working environment
•Work well-being and safe working conditions
•Opportunities for professional development
•Recognition of work contribution
•Open interactionEmployment relationship
•96.2% of personnel permanent employees
•Support for equality, respect for cultures and values of individuals
and groups
•Performance-based wages ,commitment to uniform guidelines and
tools in remuneration
Working environment
•Promotion and improvement ofwell-being andsafety
•Active development of competence , by career advancement and
job rotation
•Opportunity of personnel to influence the content of own work
•Development of leadership and management skills
•Support in change situations
•Compliance with the Fortum Code of Conduct
Energy-sector organisations' expectations Fortum's actions
•Advocating for shared interests
•Maintaining dialogue•Weadvocate on behalf of shared interests
•Position papers and views on energy-sector development
Authorities' and decision makers' expectations Fortum's actions
•Compliance with laws and regulations
•Paying taxes
•Maintaining dialogue
•Transparency and reliable reporting•Compliance management
•Payment of taxes and dividends
•Publishing tax footprint
•Active dialogue with authorities and decision makers about key
issues in the energy sector
•Active and open communication, reports assured by a third party
Investors' and shareholders' expectations Fortum's actions
•High-yield share
•Risk management
•Responsible operations•Dedicated to achievement of ourfinancial targets
•Dividends paid every year
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
42•Astable, sustainable and over time increasing dividend of 50-80%
of earnings per share excluding one-off items
•Compensation for investors as agreed
•Systematic management of risks and operations in line with our
Code of Conduct
Stakeholder collaborationStakeholder collaboration
Fortum is aware of the impacts its operations have on the surrounding society and communities. Dialogue,
feedback and good collaboration are key ways to promote mutual understanding with our stakeholders. Our
corporate responsibility includes the continuous mapping of our stakeholders' views and finding a balance
between the different expectations of our stakeholders.
Management of stakeholder collaboration at
Fortum is divided by stakeholder group
among a number of people, particularly the
heads of communications, corporate
relations and human resources, sustainability,
and the managers responsible for electricity
and heat sales, as well as several expert
areas. Fortum increasingly engages in
dialogue with its stakeholders also in the
social media in its operating countries.
Stakeholder work is managed mainly based
on the stakeholder group or the interaction
theme. Annual plans have been drafted for
the key interaction areas, like corporate
relations, and corporate and customers
communications. Fortum has an informal
Advisory Council consisting of
representatives of Fortum's stakeholder
groups as invited by the Board of Directors.
The Advisory Council aims to advance
Fortum's businesses by facilitating dialogue
and exchange of views between Fortum and
its stakeholders. During 2013, the Advisory
Council consisted of 13 representatives of
Fortum's stakeholder groups and three
employee representatives.Meetings are convened by the company's
management, and also other people may
participate in them depending on the topics
on the agenda.
We report openly about dialogues with our
stakeholders and the impacts of our
operations. In our annual reporting, we focus
on the shareholders, investors, analysts,
decision makers and the media. Our activities
are affected also by other important
stakeholder groups, such as employees,
customers, goods suppliers and service
providers, and non-governmental
organisations.
Information through surveysInformation through surveys
We work with third parties to conduct several
annual surveys regarding stakeholder group
collaboration. The aim of these stakeholder
group surveys is to help Fortum to assess the
expectations the important stakeholder
groups have for the company and to respond
to them.The surveys also provide information about
growing sustainability trends and risks to the
company's operations. We regularly monitor
and assess the public discussion in our
operating countries.
Stakeholder views are mapped and the
success of stakeholder collaboration is
measured systematically through various
surveys and feedback questionnaires. The
main surveys and questionnaires conducted
regularly are presented in the following table.
The survey results are used in business
planning and development. The feedback
received from customers guide the
development of products and services.
Additionally, our activities in national and
international organisations help to deepen
our understanding of global sustainability
issues and their connections to our business.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
43Survey/questionnaire Target groups Target countries Frequency
One Fortum Customers Finland, Sweden, Norway, Annually
Public administration Poland, Baltic countries,
Capital markets Russia
NGO:s
Opinionmakers
Personnel
EPSI customer Electricity sales Finland, Sweden, Norway Annually
satisfaction customers
surveys
PR-barometer Media Finland, Sweden, Poland, Annually
Baltic countries, Russia
Media tracking Media All operating countries Daily
Student surveys Students Finland Employer surveys by T-Media and
Sweden Universum and Uratie survey by
Talentum in Finland in 2013.
Employer surveys by Universum in Sweden.
SocialSocial mediamedia
Fortum actively participates in social media.
Our social media presence is primarily
country-specific, and there are some
differences between our operating countries
in the use of the services. Facebook and
Twitter are our main social media channels.
Additionally, we use other social media
services, like LinkedIn, YouTube and blogs.
We use Facebook to engage in a dialogue
with our customers and the general publicabout Fortum and topical issues related to
the energy sector. We have also used it to
communicate with our customers in power
and district heat outages. We use Twitter as a
communication channel and for engaging in a
dialogue with our customers, the general
public, the media, organisations and opinion
leaders, and other companies. The topics of
discussion on Twitter include our current
activities and new issues of interest in the
energy sector. We have also used Twitter in
customer communications about power and
heat outages.Read more aboutRead more about
•Stakeholders' expectations and Fortum's
actions in respond to them
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
44CustomersCustomers
Fortum has several millions of customers, and customer satisfaction is of utmost importance to us. In 2013, we
introduced numerous new consumer products, and we continued our investments to improve the reliability of
our distribution networks. We also improved communication in power outage situations and extended our
presence in social media.
Fortum has 1.2 million electricity customers
and 1.6 million electricity distribution
customers in Finland, Sweden and Norway.
We sell electricity to the Nordic power
exchange and to the Russian power
exchange. Fortum delivers heat to several
millions of people in dozens of cities in eight
countries and heat and steam to industry.We regularly assess customer satisfaction
and feedback so that we can better meet
customer expectations. We involve
customers also in the development of
products and services.
In 2013, Fortum's customer satisfaction in all
business divisions improved compared to theprevious year. In most business areas,
customer service and the price/value ratio
received the biggest improvements
incustomer satisfaction. We are continuously
developing these areas to fulfill the
expectations of our customers.
Services for electricity distribution customersServices for electricity distribution customers
In 2013, Fortum developed its customer
service channels and improved the reliability
of the distribution network.
In 2012, Fortum introduced a text message
service to provide information about power
outages to its electricity distribution
customers in the Nordic countries. In 2013,
new customers have been added to the
service. Widespread distribution disruptions
are also communicated through social media
channels and on Fortum's website.Customer communications in Finland were
improved with the introduction of an online
electricity distribution investment map in May
2013. The map shows the most significant
grid improvement projects in Finland, and
customers can quickly see Fortum's grid
improvement work in their residence area.
Fortum continued the construction of the
weather-proof network in Finland with the
VahvaVerkko project . In Sweden, the
SäkraNät project improving electricity
distribution reliability continued.In the autumn Fortum completed the
installation of smart electricity meters in
Finland. A total of 620,000 smart meters
were installed on schedule in Fortum's
electricity distribution area. During the smart
meter project, more than 40 customer
events, attended by 5,000+ people, were
held at libraries and in conjunction with
various events.
Services for heat customersServices for heat customers
Fortum is improving the reliability of its
district heating networks by repairing
malfunctions detected in regular
maintenance and by investing to new
networks when necessary. Smart metering
and control systems give district heating
customers the opportunity to influence their
own heat consumption. All of Fortum's
district heating customers in Finland and
Poland and the majority of Fortum's district
heating customers in Sweden are within the
sphere of smart metering. In Latvia andEstonia, the aim is to finalise the automated
meter reading system by the end of 2014.
In 2012, Fortum opened up the possibility for
customers in Stockholm, Sweden, to sell the
surplus heat they produce to Fortum's
heating network at market price. The service
has raised interest among customers and
several contracts were signed in 2013.
Fortum is actively developing heating services
also in Russia by modernising the heatingnetworks in Chelyabinsk and Tyumen.
Modernisation of Chelyabinsk district heating
networks continued in 2013. In 2013, a new
pipeline was built to connect Chelyabinsk
CHP-1 and CHP-2. The new pipeline will
improve energy efficiency and heat
distribution in the adjacent urban areas.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
45Consulting servicesConsulting services
Fortum's Power Solutions business area is
responsible for sales of energy production-
related consulting services and products in
competitive global markets. The offerings
range from long-term, full-scope operation
and maintenance (O&M) solutions to highly
specialised expert products and services. The
services help to secure maximum availability
and productivity as well as energy and cost
efficiency.The services are based on Fortum's long
experience and cover all forms of energy
production - from thermal, hydro and nuclear
to wind and solar power. In 2013, Power
Solutions launched its renewed Hydro power
services, and the first contracts have been
signed.
Deliveries of ion exchange materials to
theFukushima nuclear power plant in Japancontinued. Power Solutions also started
training collaboration in the UK with
Rosatom. Fortum has delivered over 750
burners worldwide to lower emissions, mainly
oxides of nitrogen (NOx). In 2013, Power
Solutions delivered low-NOx burners to
Wroclaw and Krakow in Poland. Fortum's low-
NOx burners are also used to decrease
emissions of oil shale power plants in Narva,
Estonia.
Demand-side managementDemand-side management
Fortum increases the flexibility of its
customers' electricity demand by offering
products that are based on different pricing
models and by promoting smart electricity
meters.
Distribution's sizable smart meter project is a
significant step towards promoting demand
flexibility. Replacing old electricity meters
with hourly-based meters improves load
management and increases opportunities for
energy savings. All of Fortum's distribution
customers in Finland and Sweden are
included in the sphere of smart metering. In
Norway, the planning of the smart meter
system is continuing, and the preliminarylegislation on it will take effect on 1 January
2019.
Smart meters record electricity consumption
on an hourly basis. Fortum's electricity
clients, who have a smart electricity meter,
can follow their electricity consumption on a
yearly-, monthly-, daily- and hourly-level at
Fortum's website. With the smart meters,
electricity billing is based on actual
consumption rather than the previous
estimated and balance billing. An electricity
bill based on actual consumption is easier for
customers to understand and increases
awareness about electricity use.In market-based, hourly-priced electricity
retail products in Finland, the price for
electricity is based on the hourly spot price
on the Nord Pool Spot electricity exchange.
An hourly-priced electricity agreement
combined with the hourly-based
measurement of electricity consumption
allows customers to choose the more
economical hours to use electricity.
Customers can monitor their own
consumption with Internet and mobile
services. The services help customers to see
how energy conservation efforts affect their
own consumption. This gives customers a
better picture of their electricity use and
allows them to also have an impact on it.
Electricity distribution pricingElectricity distribution pricing
Currently, pricing in electricity distribution for
the majority of business customers is based
on the electrical power used. Household
electricity distribution customers, in turn,
have the option to choose a two-time
metering and tariff, making the electricityprice lower at night. The system is particularly
suitable for distribution customers with
electrically heated water boilers. Hourly-
based monitoring of consumption will offer
opportunities also for the development of
transmission tariffs and load services. Loadmanagement services are also available for
large-volume customers.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
46PersonnelPersonnel
The aim of Fortum's personnel strategy is to promote the commitment and well-being of employees. At the end
of 2013, Fortum had 9,886 employees in 11 countries, majority of which, 4,162, worked in Russia.
In 2013, the focus was on implementing the
2013-2014 efficiency programme, developing
leadership, harmonising Group-level peopleprocesses and maintaining and developing
strategy-aligned competencies.
Human resources managementHuman resources management
Fortum aims to be a preferred employer that attracts and retains qualified employees at all levels. We believe
that good leadership is the foundation to employee engagement and performance, and we strive to create
attractive career and development opportunities to continuously grow the professional skills of individuals.
Leadership developmentLeadership development
In line with the Leading Performance &
Growth initiative launched in 2010,
leadership and the organisational culture
have been developed by integrating Fortum's
key behaviours – challenge, co-create, coach
and celebrate – into daily routines.
An important part of the transition process
has been Leadership Impact, a leadership
development programme for managers. The
main objective of the programme has been to
enhance the self-awareness of the
participants and their coaching skills; it is
believed that this will have a positive impact
on the organisational culture. In 2011-2013 a
total of 1,000 Fortum managers from
different countries participated in the
Leadership Impact programme.
The plan is to continue enhancing a coaching
culture throughout the organisation.
Managers have received coaching training as
part of the Leadership Impact programme,
and starting in 2013 coaching training has
also been arranged for other personnel.
Altogether 1,000 Fortum
managers have
participated in the
Leadership Impact, a
leadership development
programme for
managers.Various development activities related
tocoaching leadership at the organisational,
team and unit levels have also been arranged.
For example, the Heat Division in Poland has
organised workshops that have enhanced
collaboration across organisational
boundaries and have collectively pursued
solutions to business challenges.
Uniform HR processesUniform HR processes
Our aim is to adopt fair and effective people
processes at all Fortum's sites. Group-level
people processes – Manage Strategic HR
Planning, Recruit and Select Employees,
Develop Employees, Reward and Retain
Employees, and Manage Employee
Information – were defined in 2012. In 2013,
the use of Performance Development Process
was broadened so that it covers Fortum's
operating countries. The defining of other
Group-level processes continued and the
focus in 2014 is on adopting, monitoring and
further developing them.
Strategy at the individual levelStrategy at the individual level
Fortum aims to put the company's strategic
goals into practice at the team and employee
level. The key tool for implementation is the
annual Performance Development Process
(PDP).
The PDP is supported by the Career
Development Framework concept adopted in
2012; one of the goals of the concept is to
maintain and develop strategy-aligned
competencies. The model-based role and
competence descriptions will be phased in tosupport also other people processes. For
example, in conjunction with the recruiting
process renewal in 2013, role and
competence descriptions were introduced as
recruiting criteria basis and evaluation
support. In 2013, some 1,000 employees in
the Nordic countries, Poland and the Baltic
countries were within the sphere of the
competence assessments. Development of
the model will continue and it will be rolled
out to more of the organisation in 2014.
In 2013, some 1,000
employees in the Nordic
countries, Poland and
the Baltic countries were
within the sphere of the
competence
assessments.
Efficiency programme goalsEfficiency programme goals
Fortum's efficiency programme will run in
2013-2014, and it aims to strengthen the
cash flow by over one billion euros. Each
division and unit has set its own targets to
achieve the efficiency programme's goals.
The aim has been to implement possible
headcount reductions resulting from the
efficiency programme through attrition,
restructuring of vacant jobs and retirement.
During 2013, the efficiency programme
proceeded according to plan.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
47In situations of organisational restructuring,
Fortum negotiates with personnel
representatives in compliance with each
country's local legislation and contractual
procedures. The minimum notice period is
based on local legislation, collective
agreements or employment contracts, which
are compliant with local legislation and
agreements. In situations involving headcount
reductions, Fortum's priority is to support the
re-employment of personnel.
An interesting employerAn interesting employer
During Fortum's efficiency programme, the
aim has been to fill vacant jobs primarily
through internal recruiting. To support the
internal mobility of employees, Employee
Mobility practices have been developed
during 2012-2013. The internal mobility of
employees between different countries and
divisions strengthens know-how andpromotes the deployment of best practices
throughout the organisation.
Fortum strives to maintain sufficient expertise
and leadership potential with the Talent
Management Process, which was renewed in
2012. Being an interesting employer helps
Fortum in recruiting new employees. In a
survey of students and young professionals,
conducted by the employer branding
company Universum, Fortum was ranked as
the 11th most desirable employer in Finland
in 2013. In the Swedish Universum student
survey, the company ranked amongst the 30
most desirable companies among master's-
level technology students.
Summer Energy, the campaign launched
every February to recruit summer employees,
was of interest to young job seekers. 4,700
applications were submitted for the 110
summer jobs offered in Finland and Sweden.Employee engagement is measured with the
annual One Fortum survey of stakeholders
and personnel and with the Fortum Sound
employee survey, which is conducted roughly
at two-year intervals.
Fortum's reputation weakened slightly
amongst the 1,045 employees who
participated in the One Fortum survey in
2013, but it was at a higher level than in the
2011 survey. Decision on the timeschedule
of the next Fortum Sound has not been made
yet.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum employees and work conditions
Well-being at workWell-being at work
Well-being at work is supported by developing managerial work, by offering tools to support leadership and by
coaching work communities towards a work culture that recognises our key behaviours. ForCARE, Fortum's
programme for overall well-being at work, offers information and professional services in issues related to well-
being at work.
ForCARE aims to promote health, safety,
employee work capacity and work community
functionality. The programme activities are
tailored to take into account the legislative
requirements and unique cultural aspects in
different countries.
Support for managers andSupport for managers and
personnel during situations ofpersonnel during situations of
changechange
Changes and restructuring are a constant at
Fortum and in its operating environment.
Changes can be a source of anxiety and
stress for employees.
The strategic assessment of Fortum's
electricity distribution business was
completed in Finland towards the end of
2013, when Fortum announced that it will sell
its electricity distribution business to Suomi
Power Networks Oy. A total of 320
employees will transfer with the business at
closing with existing terms of employment.
During the assessment process, regular
dialogue opportunities were arranged for thepersonnel in an effort to prevent and alleviate
any assessment-related uncertainty. Twice
during the nearly year-long assessment
period, employees were asked for feedback
regarding the managers' management of
change and their communication about it.
At the work community level, employees have
been coached to update their own coping
strategies and have been encouraged to
engage in open and continuous interaction
with managers and their colleaques. The
materials in the managers' portal have
provided support for managers.
The materials will be further developed into
achange management toolbox for managers.
The aim is to create the prerequisites for
successful change that take into
consideration the organisation's special
needs. Well-being skills of new managers
have been developed with the new
managerial training programme in Sweden
and Finland.Employee responsibility forEmployee responsibility for
well-being at workwell-being at work
The ForCARE programme emphasises each
work community's responsibility for its own
work well-being and for the joint development
of the work community's well-being.
Employee well-being at work stems from
working together at the workplace. Managing
well-being at work starts with developing the
capacity of individuals to manage their own
lives and work in a healthy manner.
In 2013, the focus has been on developing
the self-management capacity of individuals.
The topics in Finland have included, e.g.,
healthy nutrition, adequate sleep and a work-
life balance.
Monitoring and assessing well-Monitoring and assessing well-
being at workbeing at work
Well-being at work is monitored with an
overall well-being at work index included in
the regular Fortum Sound employee survey.
Among other things, it measures opinions
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
48related to the openness of the dialogue in the
work community, personal accountability and
the level of challenge of work tasks. The
result of the index in 2012 was 3.88 (on a
scale of 1-5).
Well-being at work is
monitored with an
overall well-being at
work index included in
the Fortum Sound
employee survey every
second year.
In addition to the work well-being index, well-
being at work is also monitored with other
Group-level key indicators, such as sick leave,
which is tracked quarterly, and the ratio
between actual retirement age and the
statutory start of the retirement pension.
In 2013, the number of people retiring from
Fortum was 164 (2012: 137). The figure
includes age-related, early and disability
retirements. The average retirement age was
61. Fortum had 782 (2012: 769) employees
who were over the age of 60.
Workplace well-being projectsWorkplace well-being projects
A Fortum-level workplace assessment model,
developed in 2013, will be used to
commensurably determine psycho-social
factors in the work environment and work
community and their impact on well-being at
work.
The goal is for the work community to find
the key development targets for well-being at
work and safety when the risks are identifiedForCARE programmeForCARE programme
and assessed. The plan is to pilot the model
in 2-3 different countries in 2014.
Fortum's well-being at work programme
includes also country-specific work well-being
projects. The work community's – and
particularly the managers' – knowledge of the
effects of harmful stress on work productivity
is promoted with the work well-being section
included in the occupational safety training or
in training tailored to the work community.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum employees and work conditions
SafetySafety
Fortum's target is to be a company where the employees, the contractors and service providers who work for us
can come to work safely and leave for home at the end of the work shift unharmed. We believe that all work
injuries are preventable when the competence and the right attitude prevails, when potential risks are
addressed and when measures are taken to protect against them.
Contractor safety a challengeContractor safety a challenge
The systematic work to improve occupational
safety continued. The lost workday injury
frequency (LWIF) per million work hours forFortum's own personnel improved to 1.1
(2012: 1.5), which is Fortum's best-ever
result. In spite of the hard work the LWIF for
contractors increased to 4.8 (2012: 3.8).
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
49Fortum reached its best
result ever in the
occupational safety of its
own personnel.
In 2013, one fatal accident involving a
contractor's employee occured at the
Chelyabinsk CHP-2 unit in Russia. And,
unfortunately, another fatal contractor
accident occurred in February 2014 in
Distribution in Sweden. The total number of
contractor accidents also increased in
2013 compared to 2012. Most of our power
plants and projects reported improvements
incontractor safety, but, due to the
challenges in some parts of the company, the
total result was unsatisfactory. The biggest
challenges were identified in our investment
projects in Russia and Sweden and in repair
and improvement works in electricity
distribution.
The situation in plant safety worsened
compared to 2012. A new KPI, major EHS
incidents, was introduced as a Fortum-level
indicator. It combines fires, leaks over 100
litres, explosions, dam and nuclear safety
(INES) incidents, and environmental non-
compliances. During 2013, there were 51
incidents; the target was less than 40. Two
INES 1 (International Nuclear Event Scale)
incidents occurred at the Loviisa plant (2012:
3). They didn't cause any injuries to people or
damage to the plant or the environment.
Contractor safety improvementContractor safety improvement
actionsactions
A common contractor safety management
model was adopted during the year. In order
to ensure an even higher focus on contractor
safety, a contractor LWIF was included in the
Group-wide targets starting 1 January 2014.
The Electricity Solutions and Distribution
Division continued implementing of the online
training programme aimed at contractors and
the contractor assessment practice; regular
safety meetings with the contractors
experiencing the biggest performance
challenges also continued. The
implementation of common EHS
requirements for contractors continued in the
Power and Heat divisions. Additionally, safety
practices in investment projects were
improved by utilising the new project safety
manual in the CHP project in Sweden, by
developing a safety manual for small projects,and by developing a contractor evaluation
tool in Heat Finland. At the Loviisa nuclear
power plant, more focus was put on
contractor management and on
management activity and influence during the
annual maintenance period. The results were
promising: the number of contractor
accidents decreased from 8 to 2.
Unfortunately, a fatal accident involving a
contractor occurred in the Russia Division.
After the accident, contractor safety
instructions and requirements as well as daily
safety management practices at the power
plants were renewed. Improvements related
tohazardous works, such as working at
heights, were introduced. Additionally, an
improved procedure for contractor safety
audits was developed. The implementation of
these practices is monitored together with
the Corporate Sustainability unit.
Safety is about continuousSafety is about continuous
improvementimprovement
During the year we implemented many
initiatives that were developed in 2012: for
example, a new safety video and safety
handbook were introduced. Additionally,
Fortum's common "stop and think" safety
training material was updated, and a new
safety walk e-learning tool was developed.
The annual safety award was given to the
Imatra hydro-power plant in Finland for long-
term successful safety work that is based on
making safety an integral part of the
daily work, and for the culture of caring for
each other that prevails within the
organisation. Implementation of Fortum's
minimum requirements for environmental,
health and safety (EHS) management
continued. A new reporting and management
system for EHS incidents, near-misses and
improvement proposals was adopted during
the year, and its use will be extended in
2014.
In the Power Division, the work continued by
increasing management commitment and
visibility during maintenance periods and by
improving the work permit system.
In the Fortum Heat Division, the use of the
proactive safety index was started in all
countries. In Heat Poland, the integration of
the Zabrze and Bytom plants was completed
and OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001
certificates were received. The performance
of the units has remained clearly better than
before integration. The plant-safety
improvement investments continued with afocus on boiler start-up and coal handling. An
extensive safety awareness campaign both
forown personnel and contractors was
started throughout the Polish operation.
The annual safety award
was given to the Imatra
power plant,
where safety is an
integral part of the daily
work and a culture of
caring for each other
prevails within the
organisation.
The most important measures in the Heat
Baltic operations were related to the safe
commissioning of the new units in Latvia
andLithuania. No accidents or incidents took
place during the commissioning process.
Heat Finland enchanced the risk assessment
and work permit practice. The new pyrolysis
process at the Joensuu CHP plant was
commissioned without incidents.
In Heat Sweden, a comprehensive safety
culture improvement programme was
launched due to the excessive number
ofaccidents and incidents. This programme
willcontinue in 2014.
In the Russia Division the EHS action plan,
started in 2009, to improve work and plant
safety, was concluded. The ISO 14001 and
OHSAS 18001 certification process
proceeded in Russia, and District heating
operations received certification during 2013.
Asbestos removal continued during the year;
about 390 tonnes of asbestos were removed.
Other activities included improved accident
investigation, integration of the Nyagan units
into the management system of the rest of
the organisation, and "stop and think" safety
refreshment trainings. Fortum India
started implementation of the Fortum way of
operating. The first actions were
improvements to the work-place and personal
protective equipment, and a more systematic
EHS risk assessment practice.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Occupational health and safety at Fortum
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
50ShareholdersShareholders
Shareholders, investors and analysts are a key stakeholder group to us. As a listed company, Fortum's
obligation is to provide correct, adequate and up-to-date information regularly and equally to all market
participants.
Fortum Corporation's shares are listed on the
NASDAQ OMX Helsinki exchange. At the end
of 2013 Fortum had 132,072 (2012:
124,451) shareholders. The Finnish State
owned 50.8% of Fortum's shares. Of the
shares, 26.2% (2012: 25.4%) were in foreign
ownership.
In line with Fortum's principle of
transparency, the Investor Relations function
ensures that stakeholder groups receive
correct and adequate information through
regular meetings and from the Investors
section on Fortum’s website. The key values
of Fortum's Investor Relations are openness,
transparency and easy approachability.To support stakeholder group collaboration,
Investor Relations meets with investors and
analysts regularly in conjunction with the
publication of the quarterly financial
statements, at investor meetings, road
shows, and shareholders’ meetings.
Investor Relations and top management
communicate with analysts, shareholders and
potential investors also at seminars and
conferences in Finland and abroad. At events,
Fortum presents issues of topical importance
to the company and discusses them with
investors. Discussions focusing on
sustainability in particular have been
arranged with some investors.During the year, Fortum met with some 200
investor sector professionals in one-on-one
meetings or in other events. In 2013, investor
events were held in the Nordic countries,
other European countries and in the United
States and Canada.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum's share and shareholders
Suppliers of goods and servicesSuppliers of goods and services
Read more aboutRead more about
•Purchasing and investments
Authorities and energy industry organisationsAuthorities and energy industry organisations
Collaboration with authorities is important in the energy sector. Fortum engages in an active dialogue on key
issues in the energy sector and annually publishes several comments and position papers on relevant topics.
At the EU level and in our countries of
operation, we are directly and indirectly
involved in approximately 62 sector
associations and organisations. We actively
present our views on energy policy issues and
offer our energy sector expertise to decision
makers and organisations in the sector. A list
of the Energy sector organisations can be
found on Fortum's website.
Public affairs themes in 2013Public affairs themes in 2013
Fortum's public affairs activities in Finland
focused on tax issues and, in particular, on
the so-called windfall tax , as well as on the
revision of the Electricity Market Act. In
Sweden, tax issues, especially the real estate
tax on hydropower ,were also high on the
agenda.Heating costs for end-customers is a
significant issue in all the Baltic countries. We
focus on questions concerning the
competitiveness and liberalisation of district
heating as well as on other legislation
affecting the energy sector, such as different
subsidies and planned retroactive changes of
them. In Lithuania, waste management issues
are also followed closely, due to the newly
opened waste-to-energy plant in Klaipeda.
In Russia, Fortum focused on energy
efficiency and on Russian electricity and heat
market legislation. Fortum hosted several
groups of Russian federal and regional
authority representatives visiting other
Fortum countries to familiarise themselves
with the functioning of power and heat
markets. Legislation regarding the heat
market and heat pricing were most activelydebated in Russia, especially the proposed
new heat market model .
At the EU level, our representatives discussed
issues related to the EU's future climate and
energy policy targets, functioning of the
Emissions Trading Scheme and the internal
energy market, as well as the impact of
different policy targets and measures on
energy prices and hence on the
competitiveness of EU industry.
In November 2013, Fortum updated the
company's information in the Transparency
Register maintained jointly by the European
Parliament and European Commission. The
register offers information about
organisations that aim to influence EU
decision making.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
51Fortum's Corporate Relations function
reporting to the President and CEO is
responsible for all public affairs activities, andthe Group does not use third parties for
lobbying purposes.
MediaMedia
From the media's perspective, Fortum's operations are interesting particularly in the Nordic countries because
we are one of the biggest listed companies in Finland and among the biggest energy-sector players also in
Sweden.
Laws and regulations governing the
communications of publicly listed companies
set the framework for our communications.
As a listed company, we follow the rules and
recommendations of the NASDAQ OMX
Helsinki stock exchange. Furthermore, we
follow the regulations set forth in the Finnish
Companies Act and Finnish Securities
Markets Act and other relevant laws as well
as the standards of the Financial Supervision
Authority (FSA) in Finland. Fortum also
observes other recommendations for publicly
listed companies set forth by the European
Union.
We communicate openly and proactively to
ensure that our stakeholder groups have
sufficient information available about
decisions and factors that are likely to have a
material impact also on Fortum's share price.
We communicate actively and consistently
also to increase awareness about the
company's strategy and business.The State's majority ownership in Fortum also
increases the media's and the general
public's interest in the company in Finland. In
other countries where it operates, Fortum is a
foreign player in the energy sector. In line
with its communication principles, Fortum
communicates with its stakeholders in an
impartial, open and timely manner. We
engage in a continuous dialogue with the
media at press conferences, press visits,
other visits, and by giving interviews and
responding to daily media contacts.
In 2013, we continued strengthening our
crisis communication preparedness by
drafting specific, Group-wide communications
guidelines for exceptional situations related
to district heating. In March we participated
in an international crisis communications
exercise involving the Loviisa nuclear power
plant. We also boosted our social media
presence in countries where we operate.During the year we arranged a number of
local media events in all the countries where
we operate and had plant inaugurations in
Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and
Sweden. We met hundreds of media
representatives at these events. The
inauguration of the Nyagan power plant in
Russia was the biggest of the events, with
participation by over 180 media
representatives from around Russia and
Europe.
The inauguration of the
Nyagan power plant in
Russia was attended by
over 180 media
representatives from
around Russia and
Europe.
Non-governmental organisationsNon-governmental organisations
We follow the activities of non-governmental organisations and engage in a dialogue. In addition, we realise
most of our sponsorships in collaboration with organisations.
We engage in collaboration with
environmental organisations regarding the
eco-labelling of electricity products in Finland
and Sweden. We also participate in projects
related to local environmental conservation
and maintaining biodiversity . Part of the
funding for the environmental projects comes
from the sales of eco-labelled electricity.
Since 2006 Fortum has been a supporter of
the John Nurminen Foundation's Clean Baltic
Sea project that is mitigating eutrophicationof the Baltic Sea and offering maritime
solutions with the goal to prevent oil spills in
the Gulf of Finland. In 2013, the project was
granted 75,000 euros.
In Sweden, Fortum additionally sponsors the
release of salmon and trout into the waters of
Stockholm with the purpose of preserving the
unique fishing in the city centre.
Fortum participates in the Bettercoal initiative
promoting sustainability in coal mining. InSweden, Fortum is a member in the Forest
Stewardship Council (FSC), an organisation
promoting sustainable forest management,
and a participant in WWF's Global Forest and
Trade Network activities. These programmes
aim to ensure the responsible sourcing of fuel
and are primarily business-oriented
interaction.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
52Local communitiesLocal communities
Fortum collaborates closely with local communities in the municipalities where it has power plants. We are an
important employer and significant tax payer in our operating areas. Our investments also improve the local
infrastructure.
We take local communities into account in
power plant maintenance, improvement and
environmental work, and we meet with local
residents, e.g., at open-house events at
power plants.
Examples of Fortum activities with local
communities in 2013:
•In Finland and Sweden, Fortum supported
projects to reduce the adverse
environmental impacts of hydropower
production and to promote biodiversity in
built-up water systems. The company
collaborates with universities, local
authorities, fishermen and environmental
organisations. In a number of projects,
river basins are being restored and
habitats for fish and freshwater pearl
mussels are being improved. Many
projects were carried out to improve
recreational use of the Oulujoki river in
Finland, especially in terms of swimming
and boating. The projects were part of
the framework agreement within which
the municipalities of the region, Fortum
and environmental authorities
continuously work in tight cooperation.
•Fortum worked with the local authorities
of the Oulujoki watershed to study how
developing the regulation of the
watershed could reduce flooding. Many
meetings were held to give local
residents information about water
regulation and to discuss hydropower on
a more general level.
•A significant share of Fortum's
hydropower-related environmental work
targets the impacts on fish stocks.
Fortum aims to deliver information on
these impacts and on the research
projects funded by Fortum. Fortum
participates in events organised by local
fishing associations and in the activities
of the migratory fish forum.•Fortum is involved in lighting projects in
cities and municipalities. In Stockholm,
Sweden, various projects were
implemented in 2013. Energy-efficient
lighting on a popular running and walking
path in Stockholm was implemented with
support from the citizens who voted for
the location. Within the same project,
Fortum has also supported a charity
campaign by the City of Stockholm to
help homeless people.
•Fortum launched the National Clean River
Championship in which 30 tonnes of
garbage was collected during the one-day
effort along the three big river banks.
More than 1,000 young people collected
funds for their recreational activities by
cleaning up the river banks in in Fortum's
hydro power areas in Värmland, Dalarna,
Hälsingland and Härjedalen.
•The Loviisa nuclear power plant publishes
a stakeholder magazine called Naapurina
voimala (Power plant as a neighbour) and
holds regular discussions with the
residents and representatives of the city
of Loviisa, Finland.
•In the past three years Fortum has
engaged in an active dialogue with local
authorities, politicians and organisations
in France about hydropower
development. In the framework of the
French National debate on energy
transition, Fortum organised an event for
French and Nordic players to discuss
hydropower, biomass and marine
energies.
•In Russia, Fortum supported various
projects at its power plant locations in
Chelyabinsk, Tyumen, Tobolsk and
Nyagan. On a local level, we support a
children's sports school and an ice
hockey team as well as various cultural
and residential events.•The inauguration ceremony of the
Klaipeda waste-to-energy power plant
was held in May in the presence of
thePresidents of the Republics of
Lithuania and Finland. A similar
inauguration ceremony was held in
September in Jelgava, Latvia,
accompanied by the Latvian and Finnish
Presidents. The events triggered big
media coverage on combined heat and
power technology (CHP). Several groups
have visited the power plants during their
first months of operation.
•In Poland, Fortum met with local
residents in different events organised in
the municipalities where it has power
plants. Open-house events were
organised at the CHP plants in Zabrze
and Czestochowa. In four cities where
Fortum has operations (Bytom,
Czestochowa, Wrocław and Zabrze)
1000 runners participated in the Fortum
Honorary Energy Donor programme. It
lasted from March to September, and
Fortum gave a donation to a charity
organisation.
•For the third consecutive year, Fortum
supported talented Silesian children who
have grown up in difficult conditions. In
2013, 120 children participated in
workshops organised by Fortum. Fortum
also awarded scholarships for the
children.
•In Bhilwara, India Fortum has equipped
three schools providing education to
around 1,200 students with solar-
powered infrastructure. Solar panels will
meet the schools' power needs in an
efficient and sustainable way.
•In India, Fortum is also participating
World Vision’s Weconomy Start program
aiming to find a win-win sustainable
business concept to use local biomass in
Fortum’s CHP plants.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
53Support for societySupport for society
Fortum supports organisations and communities working for the common good in the countries where we
operate. The goal is for collaboration to be mutually beneficial.
In 2013, Fortum's support for activities
promoting the common good totalled about
EUR 3.2 million (2012: 5.8), of which the
share of grants awarded by the Fortum
Foundation was about EUR 432,000 (2012:
780,000). Fortum Foundation supports
research, education and development in
natural and technical sciences as well as
economics within the energy area.
Fortum is the main
financer of the solar
economy professorship
established at
Lappeenranta University
of Technology in 2013.Collaboration with universitiesCollaboration with universities
and collegesand colleges
The goal of the collaboration with universities
and colleges is to develop Fortum's business
and to promote Fortum's research and
development work and its recruiting and
training opportunities.
A solar economy professorship focusing on
the research and teaching of market
mechanisms related to a solar economy
began at Lappeenranta University of
Technology in Finland 2013. Fortum is
supporting the start-up of operations with a
75% share for a five-year period. Christian
Breyer was nominated as the first solar
economy professor.
In Sweden, Fortum is working with various
stakeholders, for example the Royal Institute
of Technology, to develop solutions for
sustainable urban living in the Norra
Djurgårdstad new residential area.
Projects include, among others, development
of smart grids and analysis of carbon
footprint in housing. Fortum also researches
with the University of Karlstad how to
improve the living conditions for fish
migration in river environments.
In Poland, Fortum has developed a research
programme for producing district cooling,
which is currently being implemented incollaboration with the Technical Universities
of Wroclaw and Czestochowa.
In Russia, Fortum has a collaboration
agreement with Ural Federal University for
further training of Fortum employees and
research collaboration in the energy sector.
In Latvia, Fortum cooperates with Riga
Technical University and Latvia University of
Agriculture, and in Lithuania, with Klaipeda
Technical School by providing internships for
students as well as by supporting energy
sector-related conferences and seminars.
Fortum's sponsorship
projects focus on youth
activities, culture and
activities to improve
liveability at the local
level.
SponsorshipSponsorship supportingsupporting youthyouth
sporting activitiessporting activities
In 2013, Fortum sponsored junior football
and junior volleyball in Finland through the
Fortum Tutor programme . The goal of the
junior football programme implemented in
collaboration with the Football Association of
Finland is to ensure each child can have an
inspiring and motivating coach. About 100
tutors mentor the junior football coaches and
provide them with useful tools for coaching.
A similar programme was launched with the
Finnish Volleyball Association in January 2014
to strengthen the coaching of junior
volleyball. The Fortum Para School Day tour,
implemented in collaboration with the Finnish
Paralympics Committee, encouraged children
and young people at dozens of schools
around Finland to engage in physical
activities within their own capacities.39
2917105
Sweden (39) Finland (29)
Russia (17) Poland (10)
Other countries (5)Environment (32)
Children and youth (26)Sports (12)Culture (6)Other (24)
Environment (32)
Children and youth (26) Sports (12)
Culture (6) Other (24)
Fortum's support to society
in 2013 by country, %Fortum's support to society
in 2013 by target, %
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
54Stakeholder viewsStakeholder views
The Fortum sustainability themes that are most important to stakeholder groups are selected on the basis of
the materiality assessment, the annual One Fortum survey, public discussion, media follow-up and the
business value chain.
Key topics 2013Key topics 2013
In 2013, the following issues important in
terms of our company's operations were
among the topics of public discussion in the
company's market areas:
Reliability of electricity distribution:Reliability of electricity distribution:
•In Finland the new Electricity Market Act
requires electricity companies to be
better prepared to handle
widespread power outages caused
bynatural phenomena. The new
Actentered into force on 1
September 2013. The new law includes
thenational legislation changes required
bythe EU's third internal energy market
package.
•Fortum’s preparedness to handle storm
situations and their aftercare was better
than in previous years. Fortum proactively
informed customers through text
messages and social media. Storm
damage repairs were carried out more
quickly than before.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum’s actions to improve weather-
proof electricity distribution in Finland.
•The reliability of Fortum’s electricity
distribution
Divestment of Finnish electricityDivestment of Finnish electricity
distribution business:distribution business:
•The strategic assessment and divestment
of Fortum’s Finnish distribution networks
has sparked an active public dialogue.
There was public suspicion that the
security of energy supply would collapse
if Fortum’s distribution networks were
sold to foreigners. Additionally, it was
assumed that divesting the networks
would automatically lead to an increase
in the electricity price for consumers.
Distrust towards foreign owners emerged,
and it was speculated that they lack the
know-how and interest to invest in a grid
in Finland.•Fortum has communicated that the
people who have taken care of the
distribution network operations so far are
the same ones who work in the new
company. The new owner is governed by
the laws of Finland and the Finnish
authority oversees its operations.
•About 20% of Finland’s distribution
network is within the scope of the sale,
so there is no impact on the security of
supply. The new foreign owners are
among the world’s largest infrastructure
investors and have experience also in
electricity networks around the world.
The authority’s oversight model
determines the profit from the
distribution business, and the new owner
operates within this framework.
Change in electricity billing:Change in electricity billing:
•With the installation of smart meters,
there has been a switch to billing based
on actual electricity consumption. In
particular, switching to hourly-based
metering, the correctness of billing after
meter replacement, and discontinuing the
instalment billing have caused
uncertainty and discussion among
customers. The bigger bill resulting from
increased consumption during winter has
come as a surprise to some people.
EnergyEnergy market functioningmarket functioning
andanddevelopment:development:
•Energy and climate policy and energy
market development were important
topics in the dialogue with the authorities
in our different operating countries and at
the EU level. Fortum has actively
participated in the preparation of the
EU’s 2030 energy and climate package
and in the related discussions.
•Fortum expects clarity and consistency
from European energy policy in the face
of the climate challenge. The company
has emphasised setting ambitious and
binding emissions target for 2030.
•Energy sector investments require a
stable and long-term policy, becausedecisions are made for the long-term and
require significant capital. Transitioning to
a low-carbon system as cost efficiently as
possible requires a well functioning,
integrated internal energy market. To
develop the internal energy market,
Fortum also suggests consideration of a
more binding target to develop a cross-
border electricity distribution network.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Carbon market development
Increased use of coal:Increased use of coal:
•Fortum’s coal use increased in Finland,
Sweden and Russia. There was an active
discussion about the increased use of
coal. The growth in the use of coal has
increased local emissions in power plant
municipalities, and the stakeholders’
concerns are warranted. On the other
hand electricity production in Fortum's
coal-fired Inkoo power plant in Finland
ended in February 2014. This has
sparked a discussion in Finland about
energy self-sufficiency. The use of coal at
Fortum’s Suomenoja CHP plant increased
by nearly 90% from 2012. In 2013, coal’s
share of the total heat production in
Espoo was about 80%. The increase in
coal use is due to the higher price for
natural gas and the decreased price for
emission allowances coupled with the
natural gas tax changes and lower
electricity prices. At the end of the last
decade, Fortum invested in a new natural
gas-fired power plant that was believed to
be competitive in the electricity and
heating markets. Unfortunately, in the
current situation, the plant operation is
not profitable.
•At the Värtan plant in Sweden, the use of
coal increased by a quarter from the
previous year, due to the better
availability of the plant and the
elimination of the CO 2tax overlapping
with emissions trading.
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
55•Fortum’s responses to the discussion
emphasise expanding the focus area from
the local level to the entire market area.
Fortum operates in the Nordic electricity
market and on the European emission
allowance market. Many internal and
external factors affect these markets.
•In the United States, the entry of shale
gas into the markets has increased gas
use and reduced coal consumption.
Europe has received a stream of more
economically priced coal, and its use has
increased. The profitability of energy
produced with natural gas has weakened,
and new gas-fired power plants have
been shut down due to unprofitability.
•In EU’s emissions trading, the emissions
cap is set at the EU level. Even though,
from a local perspective, the increase in a
single power plant’s carbon emissions is
unfortunate, the EU’s overall emissions
target will be achieved. Conversely, if the
use of fossil fuels were completely
stopped in one EU country's electricity
and heat production that is within the
sphere of emissions trading, there would
be no decrease in Europe’s emissions,
because the decrease in emissions in
that particular country would make room
for emissions growth elsewhere in the
EU.
Taxation:Taxation:
•In Finland, the power plant tax (previously
called the windfall tax) has been adopted
as of 2014. It will be applied provided
that the European Commission finds that
it is in line with the general tax principles
and regime in Finland and that it does not
include forbidden state aid to power
plants excluded from the tax. The tax
would target hydro, wind and nuclear
power plants built prior to 2004. Fortum
would be the single biggest payer of the
tax, and its share of the tax would be
about half, i.e. an estimated 25 million
euros a year. Fortum has submitted a
complaint to the European Commission
and has requested clarification whether
the tax treats companies in a similar
situation in an equal manner and whetherthe tax is prohibited State aid to plants
excluded from the tax. In April, Fortum
filed a complaint to the European
Commission in order to find out whether
the Swedish real estate tax on hydro-
plants is in line with the EU regulations
and whether the different tax levels of
real estate on renewables, such as wind-,
hydro- and bioplants, are to be
considered as state aid or not. The real
estate tax for hydro power plants in
Sweden will be increased by nearly 50%
during 2013-2018.
•In January 2014, the non-profit
organisation Finnwatch published a
report regarding the role of holding
companies in the operation of Finnish
companies. According to the report, the
20 biggest companies, based on
turnover, have over 225 holding
companies in countries that Finnwatch
classifies as tax havens. Fortum is also
included in the report. The report and the
ensuing discussion was widely
communicated in the media. Fortum was
the first Finnish company to publish its
tax footprint in the Sustainability Report
2012.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum's tax footprint
Progress and earnings expectations of theProgress and earnings expectations of the
Russian investment programme:Russian investment programme:
•Fortum’s investment programme and
earnings expectations in Russia is
regularly a source of interest for media
and investors. Fortum has announced its
target to achieve an operating profit level
(EBIT) of about EUR 500 million run-rate
in its Russia Division during 2015 and to
create positive economic value added in
Russia.
•The completion of the last units in
Fortum’s investment programme has
been delayed by some months from the
original timetable; the programme will be
completed by the middle of 2015. The
most significant part of Fortum’s Russianinvestment programme – two units at the
Nyagan power plant – were inaugurated
in September. The plant’s inauguration
was widely reported in Russian and
Nordic media.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Russia Division
Hydropower’s future in Sweden:Hydropower’s future in Sweden:
•A report published in Sweden about the
need for changes in hydropower-related
legislation sparked a dialogue about the
future of hydropower. Hydropower plants
may be forced to apply for new operating
permits, and, in conjunction with the
processing of the permits, the production
of the plants may be limited. The impact
would target the small hydropower plants
in particular. Fortum views the change as
a risk and emphasises that the use of
emissions-free hydropower is essential in
climate change mitigation, and it is of
critical importance as regulating power in
the Nordic markets. Fortum has an
ongoing hydropower refurbishment
programme to modernise plants.
Additionally, Fortum is involved in
voluntary environmental conservation
efforts to reduce the adverse effects of
hydropower and to safeguard the other
uses of water systems.
Impact of hydropower on fish:Impact of hydropower on fish:
•During the year the status of the
migratory fish stocks evoked a lot of
discussion in conjunction with, among
others, the salmon and sea trout strategy
work lead by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry.
Read more aboutRead more about
•How hydropower is involved and Fortum's
view on fishing-related issues
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
56Materiality assessmentMateriality assessment
Fortum's sustainability reporting focuses on describing operations important from the stakeholders' perspective
and their impacts. The aim is to provide reporting that is comprehensive and transparent and takes into
consideration all significant stakeholders. Our report is verified by a third party.
Fortum will move to GRI G4 reporting
during 2014 and will publish its first
sustainability report that is consistent
withthe G4 Guidelines in spring 2015. The
G4 Guidelines highlight the reporting of
aspects material to stakeholders and to
company operations. Fortum will renew its
materiality assessment in spring 2014 so that
the stakeholder expectations and information
gathered will provide the best possible
transition to G4 reporting.
Fortum previously conducted
acomprehensive stakeholder analysis in
2010. Since then, Fortum has assessed
theissues material to different stakeholders
based on the themes raised in the yearly OneFortum stakeholder survey and in the
company's dialogue with stakeholders. For
the 2013 report, Fortum also used the TVR
report, published by the TwoTomorrows
consultancy, and the Sustainability Topics for
Sectors report, published by GRI, as external
benchmarks.
Of the aspects assessed as material by
Fortum, CO 2emissions and climate change
mitigation, operational safety, security of
supply and power plant availability as well as
customer service and customer satisfaction
correspond very well with the aspects
assessed as material by TwoTomorrows. For
these aspects, Fortum has also set Group-
level targets.Fortum also has a Group-level target for
energy efficiency, one of the aspects
assessed as material by GRI. Energy
production by fuel type and especially use of
renewable energy sources are also listed as
material aspects by GRI. Fortum also believes
that future energy production will be based
on a solar economy and presents the solar
economy production forms as a category of
its own in this report.
As government subsidies are recognised as a
material aspect under economic
responsibility by GRI, Fortum has included
this information in its 2013 reporting.
Assessment of sustainability aspectsAssessment of sustainability aspects
Annual Report 2013 Our stakeholders
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
57Customer satisfaction surveysCustomer satisfaction surveys
Fortum annually measures customer and stakeholder satisfaction, as well as development of the company's
reputation and the factors that impact it, through the extensive One Fortum and regular EPSI surveys.
The One Fortum survey covers customers,
governmental bodies, capital markets, non-
governmental organisations and opinion
leaders as well as Fortum's personnel. In
2013, the survey was conducted in Finland,
Sweden, Norway, Poland, the Baltic countries
and Russia, as in the previous year. For the
Power Division, the survey also covered
customers in Germany and Great Britain. In
Finland and Sweden, the survey covered the
general public as well. In addition, Fortum
monitors customer satisfaction through
regular EPSI customer satisfaction surveys in
Finland, Sweden and Norway.
The results of the
customer satisfaction
surveys are reviewed by
Fortum's top
management and are
used for planning and
development of the
company's business.
The survey results are reviewed by Fortum's
top management and are used for planning
and development of the company's business.
In 2013, Fortum's reputation and customer
satisfaction were part of the Group's
sustainability target setting, and Fortum's
reputation among the general public and
customers were also part of the Group's
short-term incentive system (STI).
Better image among customersBetter image among customers
and the general publicand the general public
The results of the One Fortum Survey for
2013 were mainly positive in regards to
reputation and customer satisfaction.
Compared to 2012, Fortum's reputation
improved noticeably amongst the generalpublic and customers. Customer satisfaction
also increased, compared to the previous
year. Fortum's reputation has continually
gained strength over the last three years that
the One Fortum survey has been conducted.
Fortum's reputation improved not only
amongst customers and the general public,
but also amongst government
representatives. However, its reputation
slightly declined amongst capital market
operators, employees, opinion leaders and
civic organisations. Fortum's reputation is still
the highest in the opinions of capital market
operators, despite the slight downturn in its
reputation amongst this group.
In all divisions of Fortum, customers were
more satisfied than before, but the Group's
target for customer satisfaction was reached
only in the Power Solutions business unit of
the Power Division. Customer satisfaction
among the ESD Division's business
customers declined slightly after its rise in
2012.
As in the previous year, Fortum's leadership,
operations and financial performance were
given high scores. The reputation improved
the most, especially among the general
public, in two development areas identified
the previous year: Customer Orientation and
Social Responsibility. These two areas will
continue to be important targets of
development in 2014. Fortum's employer
image and reputation among the employees
also remained as development areas.The improvement in
customer satisfaction is
the result of new
customer-oriented
products and services
and our ability to provide
guidance on energy
efficiency.
The international and independent EPSI
Rating annually surveys customer satisfaction
with
electricity retail companies in Finland,
Sweden and Norway. Based on the 2013
EPSI survey, customer satisfaction with the
electricity industry improved in Finland,
Sweden and Norway. In Finland and
Sweden, Fortum's customer satisfaction rose
more than the industry average. In Finland,
Fortum was the top gainer of the year. Our
result in Norway was somewhat lower than in
the previous year. The considerable
improvement in customer satisfaction is the
result of new customer-oriented products and
services and our ability to provide guidance
on energy efficiency.
Customers value the price-quality ratio of
Fortum's products. Customer satisfaction
among private customers in Finland has
improved steadily since 2006.
Fortum's satisfaction index in Finland has
risen 2.7 index units from the previous year.
Fortum has improved its result among
business customers in Finland by nearly 10
index units.
In December 2013, an indicator measuring
Fortum's reputation among the general
public, customers and employees was
included in the long-term incentive systems
(LTI) for the years 2014-2016.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
58Sustainability managementSustainability management
Fortum's sustainability approach, management model, roles and responsibilities together with target-setting
are discussed in the report section Sustainability Approach. Fortum's governance model is discussed in the
Governance Statement 2013.
Guiding policies andGuiding policies and
international commitmentsinternational commitments
The renewal of Group-level policies and
instructions has been ongoing during
2012-2013. The renewed policies require the
Board's approval. In June 2013, Fortum's
Board of Directors approved Fortum
Corporation's Sustainability Policy. Public
policies will be available on Fortum's websiteafter the Board's approval. Our main policies
and instructions supporting sustainability
include:
•Code of Conduct
•Supplier Code of Conduct
•Sustainability policy (including
environmental, and occupational health
and safety policies)
•Human resources policy
•Group risk policy•Sponsorship steering document Group
manual on investment evaluation and
approval procedure
•Group instructions on Competition Law
•Group instructions on anti-corruption and
anti-bribery
•Group instructions for
safeguarding Fortum's assets
•Group instructions for conflicts of interest
•Biodiversity guidelines
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
59•Minimum requirements for EHS
management
Fortum respects and supports the United
Nations Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the United Nations Convention on the
Rights of the Child, and the core conventions
of the International Labour Organisation
(ILO). Additionally, Fortum recognises in its
operations the statutes of the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the
International Chamber of Commerce's anti-
bribery and anti-corruption guidelines, and
the Bettercoal initiative's Code on
responsible coal mining. Fortum has been a
member of the UN Global Compact initiative
since June 2010 and joined the UN Caring for
Climate initiative in November 2013.
Management approach toManagement approach to
economic responsibilityeconomic responsibility
Fortum's economic responsibility emphasises
strong financial performance, profitable
growth and added value over the long term. A
company that is financially strong is able to
be responsible for the environment, take care
of its personnel, meet the needs of its
customers, support the development of
society and produce added value for its
different stakeholders. Strong financial
performance and growth must be achieved in
compliance with sustainability principles and
the company's target setting. Every new
research and development project is
assessed against carbon dioxide-free and
resource efficiency criteria. Likewise, every
new investment proposal is assessed against
sustainability criteria as part of Fortum's
investment evaluation and approval
procedure. In investments we are looking for
economically viable options that enable a
capacity increase and reduced emissions.
Fortum's key financial figures are prepared
and presented in compliance with
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS). Fortum uses the information
presented in the financial statements as well
as the applicable Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) indicators for reporting economic
responsibility and discloses in its
Sustainability Report some figures that are
collected as part of the financial statement
process, but are not included in the actual
financial statements.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Economic performance indicatorsManagement approach toManagement approach to
environmental responsibilityenvironmental responsibility
Environmental responsibility at Fortum
emphasises the efficient use of natural
resources and the need to mitigate climate
change, and it highlights our know-how in
CO2-free hydro and nuclear power production
and in energy-efficient CHP production.
Research and development activities create
requisites for environmentally benign energy
solutions.
Fortum's environmental management is
based on the Group's policies and
commitments as well as the international ISO
14001 standard; the goal is for all operative
functions to have ISO 14001 environmental
certification. During the year the Zabrze and
Bytom operations in Poland and OAO
Fortum's district heat network operations in
Russia received ISO 14001 certification. At
the end of 2013, the certification rate of
Fortum's operations was 100% . The
certification rate is based on the share of
sales generated in certified operations (2013
net sales values) out of Fortum's total sales.
Key environmental performance indicators
include CO 2emissions per produced kWh,
energy efficiency and the number of EHS
incidents. EHS incidents are reported
monthly and CO 2emissions and energy
efficiency quarterly to the Fortum
Management Team and regularly to the Board
of Directors.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Environmental performance indicators
Management approach toManagement approach to
occupational health and safetyoccupational health and safety
Fortum's safety management emphasises the
company's strategic intent to create a safe
workplace for all individuals working in
Fortum's operations. We believe that all work
injuries are preventable. Safety management
is based on the Group's policies and
commitments as well as Group-level
instructions and Group-defined minimum
requirements for environmental and
occupational health and safety work.
Fortum's goal is for all operative functions to
have OHSAS 18001, occupational health and
safety certification.
At the end of 2013, the certification rate of
Fortum's operations was 73% . During theyear certification was awarded to Zabrze and
Bytom operations in Poland and OAO
Fortum's district heat network operations in
Russia. The Electricity Solutions and
Distribution (ESD) Division does not have
OHSAS 18001 certification.
In reporting injuries, Fortum complies with
the principles of the United States
Occupational Safety & Health Administration
(OSHA) and the ILO's Practice on Recording
and Notification of Occupational Accidents
and Diseases (1995) to the extent that they
conform to the legislation in Fortum's
countries of operation.
A key occupational safety performance
indicator includes lost workday incident
frequency (LWIF) for own employees which is
reported monthly to Fortum Management
Team and regularly to the Board of Directors.
Operative management receives a
comprehensive safety report covering both
own employees and contractors, monthly.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Social performance indicators,
occupational health and safety
•Well-being at work
•Occupational safety
Human resources and well-Human resources and well-
being managementbeing management
Fortum aims to have engaged and satisfied
employees. We want to create attractive
career and development opportunities for
individuals to continuously grow their
professional skills and know-how. Fortum's
Code of Conduct and HR policy guide HR
practices, which are supported by Group-level
HR processes: strategic planning, recruiting,
personnel development, performance
management, benefits and remuneration, and
career and personal data management.
We value diversity and foster fair treatment
and equal opportunity in recruitment,
remuneration, development and
advancement of employees, regardless of
race, religion, political opinion, gender, age,
national origin, language, sexual orientation,
marital status and disability. The
implementation of the HR practices is
monitored through employee surveys, annual
performance and development reviews as
well as other feedback channels.
The focus areas of Fortum's HR management
in 2013 were coaching leadership,
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
60competence management and development
aligned with the strategy, and development of
Group-wide HR processes.
ForCARE is Fortum's well-being programme
that comprehensively covers issues related to
employee well-being. The programme's goals
are to promote health and safety, support the
employees' capacity to work throughout their
career and promote the functionality of work
communities at Fortum. Each member of the
work community is responsible for their own
well-being and competence and for the
mutual development of well-being. The model
is customised according to each country's
legislation in collaboration with local
occupational safety organisations, the
personnel and management.
Well-being is monitored through sick leaves,
which is tracked quarterly and the ratio
between actual retirement and the statutory
start of the retirement age. Employee survey,
which is conducted at two-year intervals also
includes index measuring well-being.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Social performance indicators,
employees and work conditions
•ForCARE - A model for overall well-being
at work
Human rightsHuman rights
Fortum's approach to human rights is
described in Fortum's Code of Conduct,
Supplier Code of Conduct and Human
Resources policy. Fortum endorses the UN
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
UN Convention of the Rights of the Child, andthe key conventions of the International
Labour Organisation. Additionally, Fortum
recognises the statutes of the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the
International Chamber of Commerce's anti-
bribery and anti-corruption principles and
rules, and the Bettercoal initiative's Code on
responsible coal mining. Fortum has been a
member of the United Nations Global
Compact initiative since June 2010.
In 2013, Fortum included the UN Guiding
Principles (Protect-Respect-Remedy
Framework) on Business and Human Rights
as part of its systematic country and partner
risk assessment.
Supplier questionnaires and audit results
assessing the realisation of human rights are
recorded along with the corrective measures
in the supplier database, which is available to
all Fortum employees. Fortum has set a
Group target for the number of audits and
audits performed are reported quarterly to
operative management.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Social performance indicators, human
rights
•Sustainable management of the supply
chain
SocietySociety
Fortum's Code of Conduct guides our
management approach to society . Fortum
follows good business practices and ethical
principles in all of its operations. We compete
fairly and ethically and work within the
framework of applicable competition lawsandGroup competition instructions. We avoid
all situations where our own personal
interests may conflict with the interests of
the Fortum Group. Notably, we never accept
or give a bribe or other improper payment for
any reason.
We base our customer relations on honesty
and trust. We treat our suppliers and
subcontractors fairly and equally and we
choose them based on merit; and with the
expectation that they will consistently comply
with our requirements and with Fortum's
Supplier Code of Conduct.
As an active corporate citizen, Fortum offers
expert advice to decision makers and non-
governmental organisations in energy-related
issues. Fortum as a company does not
support, directly or indirectly, any political
parties or other political organisations, nor
does it participate in financing election
campaign for any candidates.
Through our business, Fortum interacts with
millions of people. According to our
Sustainability Policy, we want to develop our
operations in co-operation with our
stakeholders. Open, honest and proactive
communication and listening to our
stakeholders are important in targeting our
strategic aims. Special attention is paid to
the local communities and people around our
production plants.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Social performance indicators,
community
•Support for society
•Stakeholder engagement
Reporting principlesReporting principles
Fortum's Annual Report consists of four
parts: Financials, Annual Review, Governance
and Sustainability. The entire Annual Report
will be published online in Finnish and English
on Fortum's website.
Fortum as a company and key information on
production capacity, customers, certified
management systems and carbon dioxide
emissions is described in the Annual Review.
The Sustainability Report reviews Fortum's
operations in 2013 and also contains some
information from January-February 2014. The
2012 Sustainability Report was published inMarch 2013, and the 2014 report will be
published in March 2015.
The report is divided into four sections. The
first section describes sustainability as part of
Fortum's strategy. The second section
focuses on Fortum's business value chain
and the role of different production and
distribution forms in it. Fortum's key
stakeholder groups and their expectations
about Fortum's sustainability work are
discussed in the third section. The standard
disclosures of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) G3.1 Guidelines are presented in the
fourth section.Contact persons providing more information
related to the report can be found on the
contacts page .
Report scope and boundaryReport scope and boundary
Reporting related to operations and
management covers all functions under
Fortum's control, including subsidiaries in all
countries of operation. The consolidation
includes the parent company Fortum
Corporation and all the companies in which
Fortum Corporation has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies and in
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
61which it generally holds, directly or indirectly,
more than 50% of the voting rights. Possible
deviations to this principle are reported in
conjunction with information applying
different boundaries.
The reporting of management practices does
not fully cover Fortum's minority ownerships,
and thus the defining of the scope of
reporting is not fully compliant with the GRI
Boundary Protocol. According to the GRI
Boundary Protocol, entities with 50%
ownership or less and with significant
sustainability impacts should be included in
the management approach disclosures. In
Fortum's case, management practices of the
Olkiluoto nuclear power plant (26%
ownership), Kemijoki Oy (18% ownership in
equity capital, 64% ownership in hydropower
shares) and Turun Seudun Maakaasu ja
Energiantuotanto Oy (49.5% ownership) in
Finland and the management practices of the
Forsmark (26% ownership) and Oskarshamn
(46% ownership) nuclear power plants in
Sweden are excluded from the reporting.
Information from previous years is presented
as pro forma information, i.e., presented on
the basis of the organisation and the
functions of each year; the impacts of
ownership changes in production facilities,
for example, have not been updated
afterwards in the previous key indicators.
Capacity changesCapacity changes
New and acquired capacityNew and acquired capacity
Four new CHP plants were inaugurated in
2013: Järvenpää (Finland), Brista (Sweden),
Klaipeda (Lithuania) and Jelgava (Latvia). In
Russia, two units of the gas-fired Nyagan
power plant were commissioned. In addition,
Fortum acquired Amrit Solar power plant in
North-Western India.
The plants and capacity acquired during a
year are included in reporting starting fromthe takeover. The same principle applies to
new capacity built and new plants
inaugurated during the year.
Leased and divested capacityLeased and divested capacity
Fortum sold the Kuusamo Power Plant in
Finland to Adven Oy on 1 October 2013. The
Kuusamo Power Plant is included in Fortum's
sustainability reporting for the period January-
September. At the end of 2013 Fortum also
sold the Kauttua and Nokia power plants, and
the ownership of the Uimaharju power plant
was transferred back to Stora Enso in
accordance with the agreement signed in
1990. These plants are included in reporting
for the whole year of 2013.
Measurement and calculationMeasurement and calculation
principlesprinciples
Data for economic performance indicators is
collected from the audited financial
statements and from financial accounting and
consolidation systems.
The environmental information of the report
covers the plants for which Fortum is the
legal holder of the environmental permit.
Normally, Fortum is the majority shareholder
of such plants, but the company can be the
holder of a plant's environmental permit also
when it is a minority shareholder. In such
cases, the plant information is reported in its
entirety, but only the share of production and
emissions corresponding to Fortum's share of
ownership are calculated in the specific
emissions figures.
Fortum utilises a Group-wide database with
instructions for collecting site-level
environmental data. Sites are responsible for
data input, emissions calculations and
assurance. The Corporate Sustainability unit
compiles all data and is responsible for
disclosed sustainability information.Fortum's CO 2emissions subject to the EU
Emissions Trading Scheme are annually
verified at the site-level by external verifiers.
Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions
have been reported in accordance with the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol and based on the
Greenhouse Gas Analysis performed by an
external consultant.
Fortum's human resources (HR) management
system HeRMeS is currently used in Finland,
Sweden, Norway and Poland, excluding the
Zabrze and Bytom functions, and it is the
main system for all employee-related
personal and job data. In 2013, HeRMeS was
introduced partly also in Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania. Other social responsibility data,
such as occupational health-related data,
originates from various data systems and is
collected by the relevant contact persons and
delivered to Corporate Sustainability unit in
the format recommended by GRI.
Global Compact reportingGlobal Compact reporting
Fortum has been a member of the United
Nations Global Compact initiative since June
2010. This report describes the realisation of
the Global Compact's ten principles in
Fortum's operations. Global Compact
approves the use of the indicators in the GRI
G3.1 Guidelines in Communication on
Progress (COP) reporting. The GRI index
presents the indicators used to measure
Fortum's performance in fulfilling the
principles of human rights, labour standards,
the environment and anti-corruption.
Fortum joined the Caring for Climate initiative
in November 2013. Fortum meets the
reporting requirements of the Caring for
Climate initiative by participating annually in
the assessment in the CDP's climate change
programme and by publishing its response on
the CDP's website.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
62AssuranceAssurance
Fortum's Sustainability Report 2013 is
published online in Finnish and English and
can be read at
annualreport2013.fortum.com . The report is
based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. The
Finnish version of the Sustainability Report is
given limited assurance by Deloitte & Touche
Oy, Fortum Corporation's financial auditors.
The assurance scope covers the Finnish
version of the sustainability reporting material
presented at annualreport2013.fortum.com .
In addition to the G3.1 Guidelines Fortum has
also reported, when applicable, some of the
indicators presented in the Electric Utility
Sector Supplement of the GRI. Sector-specific additions to the G3.1 indicators have
not been acknowledged. Fortum has
conducted a self-assessment on the
comprehensiveness of the reporting, as
required by the GRI. The application level has
also been reviewed by the assurance
provider, and both parties are in agreement
that Fortum has followed application level B+
of the GRI 3.1 Guidelines. In its reporting,
Fortum has also adhered to the AA1000
Accountability Principles Standard (AA1000
APS).
The report content is not updated after
assurance, and any amendments to the
content will be reported the following year.Deloitte & Touche Oy has also provided
limited assurance for emission calculations
(Scope 1-3) based on the GHG Protocol
according to the requirements published by
CDP ( Verification of Climate Data ). The
assurance report will be delivered to CDP as
part of Fortum's CDP reporting.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Assurance statement
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
63GRI indexGRI index
● Fully reported
● Partially reported
● Not reported
STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures
Code DescriptionInclusive-
ness Section/Further information
1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation ● Annual Review/CEO's Review
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● Annual Review/Market Development
Sustainability targets and results
2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
2.1 Name of the organisation ● Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Group business structure
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Group business structure
2.3 Operational structure ● Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Group business structure
2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters ● Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Group business structure
2.5 Countries where the organisation operates●Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Fortum's operations and
market areas
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form●Annual Review/Financials 2013/The Fortum share and
shareholders
2.7 Markets served ● Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Group business structure
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation ● Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Group business structure
Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/Year 2013 in figures/Sales
and production
2.9Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure,
or ownership●Financials/Operating and financial review /Financial
performance and position/Capital expenditure,
investments&divestments of shares
Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● Sustainability/Sustainability Approach/Sustainability indexes
Fortum's Sustainability Report 2012 was selected as the winner
in the Corporate Responsibility Reporting competition in
Finland.
3. REPORT PARAMETERS
3.1 Reporting period ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.2 Date of most recent previous report ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.3 Reporting cycle ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.4 Contact information ● Contact information
3.5 Process for defining report content ● Sustainability/Stakeholder views/Materiality assessment
Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder collaboration
3.6 Boundary of the report ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
643.8Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect
comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.●Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.10Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in
earlier reports●Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.11Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,
boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.●Sustainability/GRI Section/Reporting principles
3.12 GRI content index ● Sustainability/GRI Section/GRI index
3.13Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for
the report●Assurance Statement
4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation●Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
4.2 The Board Chair's function within the organisation's management●Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
4.3 Independence of Board members●Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
4.4Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide
recommendations or direction to the highest governance body●Sustainability/GRI Section/Social performance indicators/
Employees and work conditions
The shareholders have the right to make decisions over
company matters in a General Meeting of Shareholders and to
ask questions about the issues covered in the meeting. The
operations and duties of the Annual General Meeting and the
Board of Directors are explained in the Fortum Financials.
Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
4.5Linkage between compensation for members of the Board and the
management, and the organisation's sustainability performance●Governance/Remuneration
4.6Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are
avoided●Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
4.7Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of
the members of the highest governance body and its committees,
including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity.● Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
4.8Mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles and the status of their
implementation●Annual Review/Strategy
Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
4.9Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the
organisation's identification and management of economic,
environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and
opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed
standards, codes of conduct, and principles●Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
As of the beginning of 2013, results of the sustainability
indicators are regularly reported to Fortum Board of Directors.
Financials/Operating and financial review/Risk management
Sustainability/Sustainability Approach/Sustainability target
setting
4.10Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own
performance●Governance/Corporate Governance Statement/Governing
bodies of Fortum
The Board of Directors conducts an annual self-assessment.
4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed ● Sustainability/Sustainability Approach
Sustainability assessment is part of every acquisition and
investment.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
65Financials/Operating and financial review/Risk management
4.12Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters,
principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or
endorses.●Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder collaboration/
Authorities and energy industry organisations
4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations●Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder collaboration/
Authorities and energy industry organisations
List of collaboration partner can be found from Fortum's
website
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation ● Sustainability/Our stakeholders
4.15Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to
engage●Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder views/Materiality
assessment
Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder views/Customer
satisfaction
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement ● Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder collaboration
4.17Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder
engagement●Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder views
STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs)
DescriptionInclusive-
ness Section/Further information
ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY
Aspects Economic performance and indirect economic impacts ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Market presence ● Annual Review/Market Development
Annual Review/Fortum in 2013/ Operations and market
areas
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
AspectsMaterials, energy, water, emissions, effluents and waste, products and
services, compliance and overall●Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum Sustainability Policy
Biodiversity ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum Sustainability Policy
Biodiversity guidelines
Transport ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum Sustainability Policy
Fortum's response to CDP
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/LABOUR PRACTICES
AspectsEmployment, labor/management relations, occupational health and
safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity and equal
remuneration for women and men●Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum HR Policy
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/HUMAN RIGHTS
Aspects Investment and procurement practices, indigenous rights ● Investment evaluation and approval procedure
Non-discrimination ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum HR Policy
Freedom of association and collective bargaining, child labor,
prevention of forced and compulsory labor and security practices●Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum HR Policy
Fortum Code of Conduct
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
66Fortum Supplier Code of Conduct
Assessment, remediation ● Sustainability/GRI Section/Sustainability management
Fortum HR Policy
Fortum Code of Conduct
Fortum Supplier Code of Conduct
Investment evaluation and approval procedure
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/SOCIETY
Aspects Local communities●Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder collaboration/
Local communities
Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder views
Corruption, anti-competitive behavior and compliance ● Fortum Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
Public policy ● Sustainability Policy
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Aspects Customer health and safety●Sustainability/Our stakeholders/Stakeholder collaboration/
Customers
Product and service labelling ● Sustainability/Our business/Electricity and heat sales
Marketing communications, customer privacy and compliance ● Fortum Code of Conduct
STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators
Code DescriptionInclusive-
ness Section/Further information
ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY
Economic performance
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● EC1
EC2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate
change●EC2
Financials/Strategic risks
Fortum's CDP reporting
EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations ● Governance/Remuneration/Pensions
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government●Sustainability/Our business/Generating economic value for
stakeholders/Fortum as a tax payer
Support not specified by categories.
Market presence
EC5Standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage
at significant locations of operation●
EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers ● EC6
Local purchasing volumes presented in euros, not as
percentages. A guiding policy on local purchasing is not
available.
Responsible fuel purchasing
EC7 Procedures for local hiring ● EC7
Local hiring policy not available.
Indirect economic impacts
EC8Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services
provided for public benefit●EC8
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
67On a larger scale, Fortum's investments in infrastructure –
especially in the districting heating network in Russia – can be
considered as providing public benefit, even though the
investments also have economic benefits.
Fortum's economic impacts
EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● EC9
Negative, indirect economic impacts have not been analysed.
Benchmarking has not been done.
Fortum's economic impacts
EU6Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity
availability and reliability●Fortum in Brief/Group Business Structure
Our Business/Energy Distribution
EU7Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial,
institutional and industrial programs●Our Stakeholders/Customers
EU8Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing
reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development●Our Strategy/Research and Development
EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites●Financials/Consolidated financial statements Note 30 Nuclear
related assets and liabilities
EU10Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long
term, broken down by energy source and regulatory regime●EU10
Annual Review/Market Development
Financials/Operating and financial review/Capital expenditure,
investments & divestments of shares
EU11Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and
regulatory regime●EU11
Generation efficiency of thermal plants reported for total
production, without the breakdown required in the indicator.
EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy ● EU12
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
Materials
EN1 Materials used ● EN1
EN2 Materials used that are recycled input materials ● EN2
Energy
EN3 Direct energy consumption ● EN3
EN4 Indirect energy consumption ● EN4
Primary energy sources for purchased electricity are not
exactly known.
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● EN5
EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services ● EN6
Fortum offers electricity products produced with renewable
energy sources. We also offer energy efficiency advice and
devices (e.g. home displays) which help our customers to
control their electricity consumption.
EN7Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions
achieved●EN7
Achieved reductions are not reported.
Water
EN8 Water withdrawal ● EN8
Environmental summary
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
68EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● EN9
EN10 Water recycled and reused ● EN10
Biodiversity
EN11Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected
areas●EN11
EN12Description of significant impacts of activities on biodiversity in
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value●EN12
Impacts have not been described in detail.
EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● EN13
Size of habitats has not been reported.
Reducing hydropower’s environmental impacts
Reducing the environmental impacts of energy distribution
EN14Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on
biodiversity●EN14
Reducing hydropower’s environmental impacts
Reducing the environmental impacts of energy distribution
EN15Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species
with habitats in areas affected by operations●EN15
No comprehensive study has been made on threatened
species.
Emissions, effluents and waste
EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions ● EN16
Environmental summary
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions ● EN17
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● EN18
Hydropower
Emissions, effluents and waste/Increasing the use of biomass
CHP/Diverse use of fuels
Financials/Consolidated financial statements/Note 19.2
Capital expenditure
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ● EN19
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type ● EN20
The whole list of heavy metals has not been reported, only
mercury.
Environmental summary
EN21 Water discharge ● EN21
Waste water volumes have not been reported by type of
treatment.
Reducing CHP’s environmental impacts
Environmental summary
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● EN22
Waste volumes have not been reported in detail by type of
treatment.
Reducing nuclear power’s environmental impacts
Nuclear waste management
Environmental summary
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● EN23
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
69EN24Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed
hazardous●Not relevant for Fortum.
EN25Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting
organization's discharges of water and runoff●EN25
Products and services
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services ● EN26
EN27Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are
reclaimed by category●Not relevant for Fortum.
Compliance
EN28 Compliance with environmental law and regulations ● EN28
Possible disputes have not been reported.
Transport
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting ● EN29
Measures to mitigate environmental impacts have not been
reported.
Overall
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● EN30
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
Employment
LA1Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region,
broken down by gender●LA1
Social summary
LA2 Employee turnover ● LA2
Social summary
LA3 Benefits provided to permanent employees ● LA3
Financial summary
EC3
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ●
Labor/management relations
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● LA4
Fortum does not monitor the unionisation of its employees.
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes ● LA5
Occupational health and safety
LA6Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health and safety
committees●LA6
LA7Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and
number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender●LA7
Rates of injury are not reported by country, occupational
diseases reported only in Finland.
Social summary
LA8Education and counseling to assist workforce members regarding serious
diseases●LA8
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ●
Training and education
LA10Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by
employee category●
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning ● LA11
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
70Programs for managing career endings not reported.
LA12 Performance and career development reviews, by gender ● LA12
Diversity and equal opportunity
LA13Composition and diveristy of governance bodies and employee
categories●LA13
Minority groups are not reported.
Social summary
Governance/Board of Directors
Equal remuneration for women and men
LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men ● LA14
Reported excluding Russia.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: HUMAN RIGHTS
Investment and procurement practices
HR1 Human rights screening in investment decisions ● HR1
Total number and percentage are not reported.
HR2 Suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights screening ● HR2
Percentage is not reported.
HR3Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of
human rights●HR3
Training hours are not reported.
Non-discrimination
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● HR4
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
HR5Operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and
collective bargaining may be violated●HR5
LA4
Child labor
HR6Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor,
and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor●HR6
HR
HR7Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or
compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all
forms of forced or compulsory labor●HR7
Security practices
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in aspects of human rights ●
Indigenous rights
HR9Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous
people and actions taken●
Assessment
HR10Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or
impact assessments●
Remediation
HR11Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and
resolved through formal grievance mechanisms●
EU16Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and
employees of contractors and subcontractors●EU16
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
71EU17Days worked by contractors and subcontractor employees involved in
construction, operation and maintenance activities●LA1
EU18Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have
undergone relevant health and safety training●EU18
Percentage is not reported.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: SOCIETY
Local communities
SO1Programmes that assess and manage the impacts of operations on
communities●SO1
Percentage is not reported.
SO9Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local
communities.●
SO10Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with
significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities●
Corruption
SO2Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related
to corruption●SO2
SO3Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and
procedures●SO3
Percentage is not reported.
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● SO4
Public policy
SO5Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and
lobbying.●SO5
Our stakeholders
Our stakeholders/Authorities and energy industry organisations
SO6Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,
politicians, and related institutions●SO6
EC8
Anti-competitive behavior
SO7Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly
practices●SO7
Compliance
SO8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary
sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.●SO8
EU19Stakeholder participation in the decison making process related to
energy planning and infrastructure development●EU19
Projects are not reported.
EU21Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan
and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans●EU21
Specific projects/models are not reported on a local level.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Customer health and safety
PR1 Assessment of health and safety impacts of products ●
PR2Non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety impacts
of products●
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
72Product and service labelling
PR3 Product information required by procedures ● PR3
Percentage is not reported.
PR4Non-compliance with regulations concerning product information and
labelling●
PR5 Customer satisfaction ● PR5
Our Stakeholders/Customers
Marketing communications
PR6Adherence to marketing communications laws, standards and voluntary
codes●
PR7Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations and
voluntary codes●PR7
Customer privacy
PR8Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of
customer privacy and losses of customer data.●
Compliance
PR9Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and
regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services●PR9
EU28 Power outage frequency ● EU28
EU29 Average power outage duration ● EU29
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
73Economic performance indicatorsEconomic performance indicators
Economic performanceEconomic performance
EC1 Direct economic valueEC1 Direct economic value
generated and distributedgenerated and distributed
Fortum analyses the economic impacts and
produced prosperity from its operations to
different stakeholders in its operating
countries and market areas . These include
shareholders and investors, customers,employees, suppliers of services and goods,
and the public sector. In terms of suppliers,
Fortum analyses its impact also globally,
paying special attention to risk countries .
In 2013, the difference between added value
generated and distributed to stakeholders
was EUR 1,136 million (2012: 746) for the
development of own operations.Read more aboutRead more about
•Generating value for stakeholders
•Fortum and taxation
Monetary flows by stakeholder group in 2011-2013
EUR million 2013 2012 2011
Generation of added value
Income from customersIncome from customers on the basis of
products and services sold, financial
income and income from divestment of
business activities or plants 6,539 6,398 7,192
Purchases from suppliersCash payments to suppliers of raw
materials, goods and services -3,067 -3,002 -3,272
Fortum produced added value 3,472 3,396 3,920
Distribution of added value
Employees compensationWages, salaries, remunerations and other
indirect employee costs -529 -5431)-529
Funders compensationDividends, interest and financial expenses
paid to investors -1,216 -1,514 -1,431
Public sectorIncome and production taxes paid, support
for society and donations -591 -593 -728
Distributed to stakeholders -2,336 -2,650 -2,688
Retained in business 1,136 746 1,232
1)Comparative period information for 2012 has been restated due to the accounting change for pensions.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
74Breakdown of Fortum's added value by operating country in 2011-2013
Capital expenditure Employee costs Taxes1)Total
EUR million 2013 2012 2011 2013 20122)2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Finland 266 338 239 208 221 209 153 137 250 627 696 698
Sweden 497 492 392 177 181 181 325 367 440 999 1,040 1,013
Russia 435 568 670 88 83 80 19 19 15 542 670 765
Estonia 16 10 12 5 5 7 1 1 0 22 16 19
Poland 10 19 18 15 18 21 7 10 8 32 47 47
Norway 13 36 19 15 16 14 2 2 1 30 54 34
Other countries 47 95 58 21 19 17 81 49 7 149 163 82
Total 1,284 1,558 1,408 529 543 529 588 585 721 2,401 2,686 2,658
1)Includes paid income taxes, production taxes and property taxes
2)Comparative period information for 2012 has been restated due to the accounting change for pensions.
Investments are not recognised in the
calculation of distributed added value inaccordance with GRI, but Fortum has
included investments in its own assessmentof economic impacts, as their annual volume
and impact on the society is significant.
Capital expenditure1)by country of operation in 2012-2013
Finland Sweden Estonia Poland NorwayOther
countries Total
EUR million 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Power
Hydropower 17 12 91 86 - - - - - - - - 108 98
Nuclear
power 60 53 - - - - - - - - - - 60 53
Fossil-based
electricity 2 4 - - - - - - - - - - 2 4
Renewable-based
electricity 4 1 3 27 - - - - - - - - 7 28
Other 1 1 - - - - - - - - 0 6 1 7
Total Power 84 71 94 113 - - - - - - 0 6 178 190
Heat
Fossil-based
heat 7 9 6 12 - - 2 3 - - 1 - 16 24
Fossil-based
electricity - - - - - - 2 1 - - - - 2 1
Renewable heat,
ofwhich 17 66 218 150 - - - - - - 39 87 274 303
Waste 0 0 105 106 - - - - - - 14 47 119 153
Biofuels 17 66 111 41 - - - - - - 25 40 153 147
Other - - 2 3 - - - - - - - - 2 3
District heat
network 14 12 42 33 16 10 6 15 4 21 4 0 86 91
Other 5 12 14 32 - 0 0 - - - 0 1 19 45
Total Heat 43 99 280 227 16 10 10 19 4 21 44 88 397 464
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
75Distribution 128 158 123 151 - 0 - - 9 15 - - 260 324
Electricity Sales 1 - - 0 - - - - - - - 1 1 1
Other 10 10 0 1 - - 0 - - - 3 - 13 11
Total, excluding
Russia Division 266 338 497 492 16 10 10 19 13 36 47 95 849 990
Russia
Fossil-based
electricity 387 535
Fossil-based heat 48 32
Other 0 1
Total Russia 435 568
Total, including
Russia Division 1,284 1,558
1)Includes capital expenditure to both intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Maintenance investments during 2013 in property, plant and equipment were EUR 239 million (2012: 247). Investments due to requirements
of legislation were EUR 187 million (2012: 223). Investments increasing productivity were EUR 385 million (2012: 422) and growth
investments were EUR 473 million (2012: 666).
EC2 Financial implications andEC2 Financial implications and
other risks and opportunitiesother risks and opportunities
for the organisation's activitiesfor the organisation's activities
due to climate changedue to climate change
Climate change poses both financial,
regulatory and physical risks as well
asopportunities for Fortum. As energy
production and use is the largest source of
greenhouse gases, the energy sector has a
central role in building a low-carbon future.
The energy industry has established visions
and roadmaps of the future energy system
and is prepared to invest in new climate-
benign production capacity, provided that the
related policy framework and preconditions
of society are in place.
The primary impact of climate regulation for
Fortum is the price of carbon dioxide in the
EU's emissions trading and the cost arising
from it. This also determines the financial
value for the reduction of emissions. The
price of CO 2increases the production cost of
fossil-based energy, but it also raises the
prices of energy products. The best way to
reduce the risk related to the price of carbon
dioxide is to increase CO 2-free and low-
carbon production capacity.
In 2013, about 88% of Fortum's electricity
production in the EU was CO 2-free. In 2013,
Fortum had a total of 83 (2012: 79) plants in
six member states within the EU's emissions
trading scheme. About 98% of the CO 2emissions in the EU area were included in the
emissions trading system. In 2013, Fortum
was granted 3.0 million tonnes in free
emissions allowances. The company's
emissions in the EU emissions trading
scheme were 6.0 million tonnes. Thus, in
terms of emissions allowances, Fortum
showed a deficit.
In the third, ongoing ETS period, 2013-2020,
the volume of Fortum's free emissions
allowances will decrease significantly,
because electricity production has to
purchase all allowances from the market or
auctions. Only in Poland and the Baltic
countries, Fortum's CHP plants will receive
free allowances also for electricity production
on the basis of the derogation rules of the
Emissions Trading Directive.
In Russia, Fortum's CO 2emissions are
growing in upcoming years as a result of the
increasing energy production capacity. In
Russia, carbon dioxide emissions do not have
economic value, so far. During the Kyoto
period 2008-2012, the so-called Joint
Implementation (JI) mechanism could be
utilised. Fortum implemented several projects
in this framework.
Fortum is participating in two international
climate funds, the Prototype Carbon Fund
(PCF) and the Testing Ground Facility (TGF).
In 2013, Fortum received a total 325,000
emission reduction units from these funds. Of
the emission reduction units received,
274,000 were CER units and 51,000 wereERU units. Fortum's emission reduction units
received so far total 710,000 and we
estimate that we will still receive about
300,000 units during the funds' operating
period.
Fortum is exposed to physical risks of climate
change, including changes in weather
patterns that may change energy demand
and supply from, e.g., hydropower plants.
More frequent and intensive storms may
impact the operation and maintenance of the
distribution network. Higher precipitation may
affect hydropower production, dam safety
and bioenergy supply. In addition to climate
change mitigation, Fortum is also taking
measures to adapt its operations to climate
change and to take impacts into
consideration in e.g. production planning and
in evaluating growth projects.
Concern about climate change is expected to
result in an increasing demand for low-carbon
and energy-efficient energy products and
solutions. Fortum's know-how in CO 2-free
hydro and nuclear power and in energy-
efficient CHP as well as research and
development in the future energy system and
technologies, like wave and solar energy, can
prove to be a competitive advantage. Fortum
is investing in CO 2-free production in Europe
and sees business opportunities in providing
climate-benign energy solutions for
sustainable urban living and the electrification
of transport.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
76Read more aboutRead more about
•Risks and opportunities of climate
change for FortumEC3 Coverage of theEC3 Coverage of the
organisation's defined benefitorganisation's defined benefit
plan obligationsplan obligations
Fortum's pension arrangements conform to
the local regulations and practices in eachcountry where Fortum companies operate;
these are discussed in section 32 Pension
obligations ofthe notes of the Financials
2013 .
Market presenceMarket presence
EC6 Policy, practices andEC6 Policy, practices and
spending on local suppliersspending on local suppliers
Fortum buys fuels, goods and services from
international and local suppliers. A significant
partof Fortum's procurements are related toinvestments. Fortum classifies purchases as
local for those countries in which Fortum has
operations. The most significant purchases,
excluding investments, are from the Nordic
countries (EUR 1,685 million) and Russia
(EUR 813 million).Fuels accounted for about EUR 1,085 million
of the total annual purchasing volume. Fossil
fuels accounted for about EUR 864 million,
biofuels about EUR 155 million and nuclear
fuel about EUR 66 million.
Purchases1)excluding investments in 2011-2013
EUR million 2013 2012 2011
Nordic countries 1,685 1,612 1,903
Russia 813 769 692
Poland 143 161 148
Estonia 29 36 64
Other countries 103 99 44
Total 2,773 2,677 2,851
1)Includes purchases of fuel, power and other materials and services.
In 2013, Fortum's investments , excluding
acquisitions, were EUR 1,284 million (2012:
1,558), of which EUR 449 million (2012: 482)
was for CO 2-free production. Investments
totalled 21% of sales (2012: 25%). Fortum's
investments have a significant local impact,
as they create business and job opportunities
for local suppliers and develop the local
infrastructure. The biggest investments were
made in Russia, EUR 435million (2012: 568),
and in Sweden, EUR 497 million (2012: 492).
Investments in renewable energy forms were
EUR 389 million (2012: 429).EC7 Local hiring proceduresEC7 Local hiring procedures
and proportions of local seniorand proportions of local senior
managementmanagement
Based on Fortum's definition, senior
management consists of persons who are
members of corporate function-level or
division-level management teams. Fortum's
business is global and covers several
countries. Therefore, also function- and
division-level management teams consist of
several nationalities. The Russia Division's
management team is an exeption, with oneGerman member, and the rest being
Russians.
Senior management, according to Fortum's
definition consists of 72 persons. Of these,
61% are Finns, 21% Swedes and 14%
Russians. Senior Management also includes
one Norwegian, one German and one Polish
person. In local hiring, Fortum uses
advertised recruitment and direct search
methods.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
77Indirect impactsIndirect impacts
EC8 InfrastructureEC8 Infrastructure
investments and servicesinvestments and services
provided primarily for publicprovided primarily for public
benefitbenefit
Fortum supports organisations and
communities working for the common good
in the countries where it operates. The goal is
for sponsorships to be mutually beneficial.
Collaboration in research and development
projects with Nordic universities in particular
is significant. A solar economy professorship
was established at Lappeenranta University
of Technology in Finland 2013. Fortum is
supporting the financing with a 75% share for
a five-year period.
In 2013, Fortum's support for public benefit
totalled about EUR 3.2 million (2012: 5.8), of
which the share of grants awarded by the
Fortum Foundation was EUR 432,000 (2012:
780,000). The purpose of the FortumFoundation is to support research, education
and development in natural, technical and
economical sciences within the energy
industry. In 2013, Fortum Foundation granted
scholarships to 38 students.
Fortum's investments in infrastructure –
especially in the district heating network in
Russia – provide public benefits. However, as
Fortum's investments in district heating
networks have also economic and
environmental benefits, they are not regarded
as investments for public benefit referred to
in the GRI.
The amount donated to non-profit targets is
decided by Fortum's Board of Directors.
Donations are not awarded for any kind of
political activities, religious organisations,
authorities, municipalities or local
administrations, nor are they ever part of
business agreements.EC9 Significant indirectEC9 Significant indirect
economic impacts, includingeconomic impacts, including
the extent of impactsthe extent of impacts
Fortum supports social development and
well-being by, e.g., increasing local
employment and paying taxes, salaries and
social security costs . The tax benefits Fortum
produces for society include income taxes
and taxes related to the business operations
– such as property, waste and fuel taxes.
Fortum also has pass-through taxes, such as
the value added tax, and withholding taxes,
which Fortum is obligated to collect and
report on behalf of the government.
The dividend income on the shares of the
Finnish State has an impact on maintaining
social infrastructure.
Availability and reliabilityAvailability and reliability
EU10 Planned capacity againstEU10 Planned capacity against
projected electricity demandprojected electricity demand
over the long term, by energyover the long term, by energy
source and regulatory regimesource and regulatory regime
Fortum is currently investing substantially in
new energy production capacity both inRussia and Europe. In Russia, Fortum is
committed to a EUR 2.5 billion investment
programme that will increase electricity
capacity by 2,300 MW and heat capacity by
662 MW. The last units in the programme are
scheduled for commissioning in 2015. The
Russian investment programme is based
mainly on natural gas, whereas theinvestments in Europe (~800 MW electricity
and 280 MW heat, under construction) target
mainly CO 2-free production.
System efficiencySystem efficiency
EU11 Average generationEU11 Average generation
efficiency of thermal plantsefficiency of thermal plants
Fortum has a Group-level target (>70%) for
overall efficiency of fuel-use as a 5-year
average. Efficiency in 2013 was 61.4% (2012:
64.2%) and the 5-year rolling average 65.6%
(2012: 66.9%). Fortum's target setting is
based on the present production portfolio,
planned new capacity both in Europe and
Russia, as well as planned actions for
increased efficiency and flexible fuel use.Read more aboutRead more about
•Combined heat and power production
EU12 Transmission andEU12 Transmission and
distribution losses as adistribution losses as a
percentage of total energypercentage of total energy
Fortum's power transmission and distribution
losses totalled 1.4 TWh (2012: 1.4 TWh). Thiscorresponds to 3.2% (2012: 3.3%) of the total
volume of power transmission and
distribution. Guarantees of origin (CO 2-free
electricity) were acquired for all the electricity
purchased for network losses.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Power distribution
•Heat distribution
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
78Environmental performance indicatorsEnvironmental performance indicators
MaterialsMaterials
EN1 Materials used by weightEN1 Materials used by weight
or volumeor volume
Fuel useFuel use
Fortum's materials and energy use mainly
consists of fuels. Fortum produces electricityand heat from a diverse range of energy
sources: in Europe mostly from renewable
and low-carbon energy sources and in Russia
from fossil fuels. In its operations, Fortum
aims to use natural resources efficiently and
sparingly.
Energy content of the fuels is described in
EN3.Natural gas and 58% (2012: 57%) of solid and
liquid fuels were of non-renewable origin.
Fuel consumption in 2011-2013
2013 2012 2011
Natural gas, million m37,844 7,844 7,909
Coal, 1,000 t 3,092 2,536 3,587
Biomass and biofuels, 1,000 t 2,096 1,790 1,439
Waste-derived fuel, 1,000 t 987 806 754
Peat, 1,000 t 227 269 254
Fuel oil, 1,000 t 36 49 100
Nuclear fuel, t 20 21 23
Other fuels, 1,000 t 5 4 54
Fuel consumption by country in 2013
Russia Finland Sweden PolandOther
countries Total
Natural gas, million m37,324 160 17 5 338 7,844
Coal, 1,000 t 1,152 1,290 249 402 3,092
Biomass and biofuels, 1,000 t 706 668 146 576 2,096
Waste-derived fuel, 1,000 t 75 765 146 987
Peat, 1,000 t 142 85 227
Fuel oil, 1,000 t 1 16 18 1 36
Nuclear fuel, t 20 20
Other fuels, 1,000 t 2 3 5
Other materials useOther materials use
In addition to fuels, other materials used on a
large-scale in energy production include
chemicals for flue-gas cleaning, e.g.,
limestone, ammonia and urea.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
79Use of chemicals in 2011-2013
tonnes 2013 2012 2011
Chemicals used for air pollution control 68,000 58,000 69,000
Chemicals for water treatment 13,000 13,000 14,000
Other chemicals and additives 4,500 8,600 3,200
Lubricants 540 200 470
EN2 Recycled materials usedEN2 Recycled materials used
Fortum used 987,000 tonnes (2012:
806,000) ofwaste-derived fuels in Sweden,
Finland and Lithuania. About 16,400 tonnes
(2012: 37,300) of the waste-derived fuels
used in Sweden originated from othercountries, including Norway, Great Britain and
Ireland (combustible municipal waste, EWC
191210). Fortum and the waste supplier
companies hold the licences for waste
import. Fortum is responsible for reporting its
annual imports of waste to the authorities.Recycled input materials accounted for 15%
(2012: 14%) of Fortum's fuel use volume
(excluding natural gas) and 2.2% (2012: 1.8%)
of the total energy content of fuels.
EnergyEnergy
EN3 Direct energyEN3 Direct energy
consumption by primaryconsumption by primary
energy sourceenergy source
Fortum's direct primary energy consumption
in own energy production in 2013 was140terawatt-hours (TWh) (2012: 143). The
most significant primary energy sources were
natural gas, uranium and coal. Non-
renewable energy sources accounted for 84%
(2012: 82%) of the direct consumption of
primary energy.Renewable energy sources accounted for
29% (2012: 36%) of Fortum's power
generation and 21% (2012: 20%) of its heat
production.
Direct energy consumption by energy source in 2011-2013
TWh 2013 2012 2011
Natural gas 73.6 76.0 75.6
Nuclear fuel 23.1 24.7 24.3
Hydropower 14.4 18.3 17.1
Coal 17.9 14.2 21.8
Biomass and biofuels 6.8 6.1 6.2
Waste-derived fuel 2.8 2.3 2.5
Peat 0.6 0.7 1.2
Fuel oil 0.4 0.6 1.3
Other fuels 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total 139.7 143.0 150.2
Direct energy consumption by country in 2011-2013
TWh 2013 2012 2011
Russia 72.9 74.0 69.6
Finland 39.8 38.0 49.2
Sweden 18.2 22.1 21.5
Poland 3.0 3.7 3.6
Great Britain 3.4 3.3 4.1
Other countries 2.4 1.9 2.2
Total 139.7 143.0 150.2
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
80As an exception to the generally applied
reporting boundary in this report, the figuresshown below for Fortum's power and heat
production by energy source in 2011-2013include also production from shared
companies.
Fortum's power production by energy source in 2011-2013
TWh 2013 2012 2011
Hydropower 17.9 25.2 21.0
Nuclear power 23.7 23.4 24.9
Natural gas 20.0 19.4 18.5
Coal 4.6 3.3 5.8
Biomass and biofuels 1.6 1.3 1.7
Peat 0.1 0.1 0.2
Other 0.8 0.3 0.6
Total 68.7 73.1 72.7
Fortum's heat production by energy source in 2011-2013
TWh 2013 2012 2011
Natural gas 26.1 27.0 28.6
Coal 5.7 5.3 7.2
Biomass and biofuels 5.2 4.9 5.2
Heat pumps, electricity 3.1 3.4 2.7
Waste-derived fuel 2.2 1.9 1.0
Oil 0.2 0.4 1.0
Peat 0.3 0.4 0.6
Others 0.0 0.0 1.0
Total 42.8 43.3 47.3
EN4 Indirect energyEN4 Indirect energy
consumptionconsumption
Fortum's indirect energy consumption in
2013 was 5.1TWh (2012: 4.6). The largestpart of this is electricity and heat acquired
from external sources for operating power
plants and for compensating for network
losses in power distribution.
Indirect energy use in 2011-2013
GWh 2013 2012 2011
External heat procurement 2,384 2,196 2,366
Electricity transmission and distribution losses 1,374 1,432 1,402
Other external electricity procurement 1,340 962 969
Total 5,098 4,590 4,737
A major part of the external heat originated
from the Enocell pulp mill in Finland and was
produced from biomass. Electricity is bought
from various suppliers and the exact primary
energy sources are not known. Guarantees of
origin (CO 2-free electricity) were acquired for
all the electricity for network losses.
By assuming 75% energy efficiency for power
production and 85% energy efficiency for heat
production, indirect primary energy
consumption amounted to 6.4TWh (2012:
5.8). The share of renewable energy sourcesin indirect primary energy consumption was
over 50%.
EN5 Energy saved due toEN5 Energy saved due to
conservation and efficiencyconservation and efficiency
improvementsimprovements
In combustion-based energy production,
Fortum aims to utilise the fuel as efficiently
as possible. Fortum's efficiency of fuel use
was 61% (2012: 64%), while thecorresponding target is 70% as a five-year
average.
Energy-efficient CHP production, in which up
to 90% of the energy content of the fuel can
be utilised, is Fortum's most important tool to
increase the efficiency of fuel use. CHP
plants accounted for 33% (2012: 32%) of
Fortum's total electricity production and 83%
(2012: 79%) of heat production.
The implementation of the energy analyses,
energy-efficiency training and technology
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
81measures related to Fortum Power and Heat
Oy's 2008–2016 energy-efficiency
programme continued in 2013. The goal of
the programme is to improve energy
efficiency in power plants in Sweden, Finland
and Great Britain by 600 GWh per year. The
main focus is on improving power plant
efficiency and on increasing the capacity of
CO2-free production. About 30 projects will
be implemented every year. In 2013, the
efficiency improvements resulted in energy
savings of about 50 GWh (2012: 95).
During 2013, refurbishment was completed
at Pyhäkoski power plant in Finland and at
Edsforsen and Hansjö power plants in
Sweden. In Sweden, refurbishment continued
at Gammelänge power plant and new
projects started at Noppikoski, Väsa and
Skedvi power plants.
At Meri-Pori power plant, burners were
replaced and soot blowers were refurbished
to be more energy efficient. A heat pump
project was launched at Suomenoja. The heat
pumps will be used to annually recover about
300 GWh of thermal energy from the
wastewater treated there. This thermal
energy, which would otherwise go into the
sea, equals the annual consumption of about
15,000 single family houses. The utilisation of
waste heat to heat boiler air was started in
Joensuu, and the oxygen control of heating
plants was improved in Espoo.
Fortum is participating in the European
electricity sector's Energy Wisdomprogramme and reports on its projects that
improve energy efficiency and reduce
greenhouse gases.
EN6 Initiatives to provideEN6 Initiatives to provide
energy efficient or renewableenergy efficient or renewable
energy-based products andenergy-based products and
servicesservices
Fortum is contributing to a low-carbon
society by offering energy products and
services that can help mitigate climate
change and improve energy efficiency also in
other sectors of society. Fortum provides
customers with energy advice, offers energy-
efficiency consulting and energy-saving
products, like energy consumption metering
devices (e.g. Kotinäyttö/Home Display),
heating control systems and solar panels. A
more detailed description of environmentally
benign products is given in EN26 .
EN7 Initiatives to reduceEN7 Initiatives to reduce
indirect energy consumptionindirect energy consumption
and reductions achievedand reductions achieved
Own use of energy in a power plant can be
reduced with technical modifications,
systematic and preventive maintenance, and
by training personnel in the optimal operation
and monitoring of the plant's operational
economy.Fortum has invested in automatic meter
management in power distribution in Sweden
and Finland in recent years. This improves
the quality of loss data and creates new
possibilities for load management, which in
turn reduces distribution losses.
Losses in power distribution can also be
reduced by optimising network operations,
increasing transmission capacity in lines with
the highest loads and replacing obsolete
transformers with new, more energy efficient
ones. The impact of an individual measure is
often minor and even the cumulative impacts
can only be seen over the longer term.
However, in the long term the network load
tends to grow, which makes quantification of
energy efficiency improvements difficult.
Fortum's power distribution losses
were 1,374 GWh, which is a little less than in
the previous year (2012: 1,432). The losses
accounted for 3.2% (2012: 3.3%) of total
power distribution volume. The volume of
power distribution decreased to 21.6 TWh
(2012: 26.6) and the volume of regional
power transmission to 16.3 TWh (2012:
17.3).
The volume of electricity acquired from
external sources for operating power
plants, heat boilers and district heat networks
was1,340 GWh (2012: 962). Increase is
based on more comprehensive reporting of
electricity consumption of the district heat
networks.
WaterWater
EN8 Total water withdrawal byEN8 Total water withdrawal by
sourcesource
Fortum withdrew a total of 2,460 million
cubic metres (2012: 2,210) of water, of
which the majority, 2,245 million cubic
metres (2012: 2,017), was used as cooling
water in thermal power plants. Direct sea
water cooling is applied at the condensing
power plants in Finland. When cooling water
flows through the condenser, its temperaturerises, but the volume of water remains
unchanged.
Fortum's power plants in Russia and Poland
use cooling towers where part of the water is
evaporated into the atmosphere. In Russia,
water is used also for pumping ash from coal-
fired power plants into ash ponds.
In hydropower production, all the water runs
through turbines, so the water volume and
quality remain unchanged. Hydropowerproduction is not included in the above
mentioned figures for water withdrawal.
In 2013, Fortum carried out a systematic
survey on water use at all its power plants.
Based on the survey, the water withdrawal
volumes in 2011 and 2012 were
recalculated, especially with regard to the
cooling waters at our Russian power plants.
Water withdrawal for heat pumps in Sweden
is included as of 2012.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
82Water withdrawal by source in 2011-2013
million m32013 2012 2011
Sea water 1,840 1,629 1,950
Fresh surface water 606 573 641
Tap water 8.4 8.1 8.6
Other source 5.3 0.2 0.2
Total 2,460 2,210 2,600
Water withdrawal by country in 2011-2013
million m32013 2012 2011
Finland 1,764 1,538 2,071
Russia 544 526 524
Sweden 148 143 1.2
Great Britain 2.2 2.1 2.5
Poland 0.9 1.0 0.8
Other countries 0.5 0.3 0.4
Total 2,460 2,210 2,600
Water use in 2011-2013
million m32013 2012 2011
Cooling water 2,245 2,017 2,517
Sea water to heat pumps 138 130 -
Process and auxiliary water 76 64 83
Recycled water 12.5 9.5 36
EN9 Water sourcesEN9 Water sources
significantly affected bysignificantly affected by
withdrawal of waterwithdrawal of water
Fortum withdraws sea, lake or river water.
The withdrawn volume is small compared to
the watercourse volume and flow, so none of
these water sources is significantly affected.
Water scarcity is not an issue in the operation
areas of Fortum's power plants.
Poland is Fortum's only area of operation
defined as water-stressed in the Global WaterTool of the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development. The criterion for
water stress in the tool is 1700 m3of annual
renewable water supply per person.
Fortum's power and heat plants in Poland are
mostly small and use mainly municipal tap
water. The aggregated water consumption is
about one million cubic metres annually. No
risk of shortage in the municipal water
supplies has been identified in the areas
where Fortum operates. All of our operations
in water-stressed areas have ISO 14001
environmental certification.EN10 Percentage and totalEN10 Percentage and total
volume of water recycled andvolume of water recycled and
reusedreused
The volume of water recycled was 12.5
(2012: 9.5) million cubic metres, which was
16% (2012: 15%) of the process water
intake. The majority of the recycled water
originated from the ash and wastewater
ponds at our Russian power plants.
BiodiversityBiodiversity
EN11 Location and size of landEN11 Location and size of land
holdings in areas of highholdings in areas of high
biodiversitybiodiversity
Fortum has land holdings with energy
production facilities in protected areas. In
Finland, Fortum owns 52 hectares of land in
4 protected areas near Fortum's powerplants. Some 15 hectares of protected areas
are on Fortum's land with electricity
distribution facilities. The areas consist of
natural conservation programme areas,
nature and wilderness conservation areas,
and Natura 2000 areas. In Sweden,
971hectares in 12 protected areas are
located within areas owned by Fortum near
power plants. These areas consist of Natura2000 areas and nature conservation areas. In
addition Fortum has several land holdings in
protected areas without energy production or
distribution facilities. A more comprehensive
list of Fortum's land holdings near
conservation areas is available here.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
83EN12 Description of significantEN12 Description of significant
impacts of activities, products,impacts of activities, products,
and services on biodiversityand services on biodiversity
Fortum's impacts on biodiversity are above all
related to hydropower production that Fortum
has in the Nordic countries. Consequently the
consideration of impacts and actions is
geographically restricted mainly to the Nordic
countries. Impacts are often local and mainly
linked to the use of land and water areas. In
some cases, the impacts of hydropower
production are related to dams, which
prevent fish migration and reduce the number
of rapids as habitats.
In addition, Fortum's electricity distribution
business and fuel procurement may have a
negative impact in areas of high biodiversity.
Fortum's discharges into water systems,
particularly cooling and runoff waters, have
only a minor impact on water systems and
the related habitats and aquatic biodiversity.
Utilising fuels (for example, peat and
biomass) in energy production can affect
biodiversity. Biodiversity aspects are also
taken into consideration in other fuel
purchasing . Fortum's only own fuel
production site is the bio-oil plant
commissioned in autumn 2013 in Joensuu,
Finland. Bio-oil is produced from forest chips
and other wood biomass, such as forest
industry by-products, sourced locally from the
Joensuu region.
EN13 Habitats protected orEN13 Habitats protected or
restoredrestored
Fortum took part in several habitat
restorations in 2013. In Finland, grayling and
trout habitats were restored in three
locations on the Vuoksi river. In the Utosjoki
river, a tributary of the Oulujoki river, 16
areas were restored by placing rocks in
rapids, adding gravel for spawning and
watering small dry tributaries.
Restoration of Kiantajärvi lake's flood-
meadows in Finland was implemented by
creating nesting areas for birds and fish
habitats. Almost 100 different bird species
have been spotted in the flood-meadows
during the breeding period.
In Sweden the freshwater pearl mussel was
reintroduced to the Bulsjö river. The result
and the survival of the mussels will be
followed up during 2014. Fortum also
financed the restoration of a small creek,
Valvtjärnsbäcken, a tributary to the Ljusnanriver. The restoration will increase the
freshwater pearl mussel's chances for
reproduction.
At the Untra power plant on the river
Dalälven, environmental management of the
forests in an area of 260 hectares in Fortum's
real estate has continued during the year.
Various measures have been implemented to
protect the very rich biodiversity in the forest,
meadows and water. Continuous use of
environmentally benign forest management
practices will be monitored with ecological
surveys.
EN14 Managing impacts onEN14 Managing impacts on
biodiversitybiodiversity
Fortum's Biodiversity guidelines set the
principles for taking biodiversity into
consideration and for managing the impacts
of the company's operations on biodiversity.
Fortum recognises that biodiversity is an
essential element of sustainable development
on a global and local scale.
In January 2014 Fortum joined Finnish
Business & Society's (FiBS) Corporations and
biodiversity programme, which aims to
increase companies' awareness about the
significance of biodiversity in business, help
companies understand and achieve the goals
set for the protection of natural resources,
and support companies' own development
and improvement in environmental
responsibility. Fortum is also participating in
the Master Class training within the
framework of the programme.
The main impacts on biodiversity are
assessed in the pre-feasibility phase of any
project, e.g., in hydropower projects, before
the investment decision. If an investment
project impacts a specific species, it may
result in modification to the plant design or in
the initiation of measures to preserve or
restore the ecological value. Biodiversity
impacts are assessed in depth as part of the
EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment)
process.
Fortum compensates for the environmental
impacts caused by its hydro-power
production by stocking several fish species.
General biodiversity and environmental action
plans for Finnish rivers with Fortum's
hydropower production were completed in
2013. In Sweden, the work with biodiversity
and environmental action plans is ongoing.
An inventory of possible environmental
measures in six Swedish rivers where Fortumis one of the hydro-power operators was
carried out during the year.
In addition to the legal obligations, Fortum
reduces the environmental and biodiversity
impacts of hydropower production with
voluntary environmental projects . Part of the
funds used to the projects originate from the
sales of Bra Miljöval -labeled (Good
Environmental Choice) electricity in Sweden.
In 2013, one project in Finland was financed
with funding from the eco-labelled electricity.
In 2013, Fortum spent about EUR 710,000
on various voluntary environmental projects
related to hydropower production. All
projects are typically carried out in
cooperation with authorities, municipalities
and research institutes.
In electricity network operations underground
cabling protects biodiversity and reduces the
impact on the landscape and birds. Measures
to prevent bird collisions and electric shocks
include isolation of the live parts of the
network and mounting marker balls on
overhead lines and landing perches on poles.
New power lines will be built on public areas
and roadsides whenever possible.
In biomass and biofuel purchases, Fortum
aims to increase the share of certified wood
fuel. This kind of fuel originates from
sustainable energy sources in which, e.g.
biodiversity is taken into consideration.
During 2014, Fortum's goal is to start
gathering data on the volume of certified
wood-based biomass used as fuel in Finland
and Sweden.
EN15 Species with extinctionEN15 Species with extinction
risk with habitats in areasrisk with habitats in areas
affected by operationsaffected by operations
Fortum has not conducted a comprehensive
study on the presence of species with
extinction risk in the vicinity of its operating
areas, but is continuously increasing the
awareness of the endangered species in the
vicinity of its power plants. The Saimaa ringed
seal ( Pusa hispida saimensis ) is classified in
Finland as an extremely endangered species
on the IUCN's red list. There have been a few
years when Fortum has altered water flows in
the Vuoksi river to enhance the survival of
seal pups in their nests.
One important threatened species in Finnish
and Swedish rivers is the freshwater pearl
mussel. Fortum has implemented several
voluntary projects related to restoration of
the mussel habitats. Fortum also funds
Karlstad University's research project that is
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
84producing information about the freshwater
pearl mussel reproduction and the
significance of the origin of the mussel's host
fish (trout) on the life-cycle of mussels.
A threatened sedge species ( Carex
heleonaste) grows close to the Laforsenhydropower plant on the Ljusnan river in
Sweden. To protect this threatened species,
annual maintenance work is carried out to
ensure good living conditions for this species.
In Sweden, Fortum is participating in an eel
(Anguilla anguilla ) conservation project andresearch together with seven hydropower
companies and the Swedish Agency for
Marine and Water Management (Havs och
vattenmyndigheten).
Emissions, effluents and wasteEmissions, effluents and waste
EN16 Total direct and indirectEN16 Total direct and indirect
greenhouse gas emissionsgreenhouse gas emissions
Carbon dioxide (COCarbon dioxide (CO 22))
Fortum emitted 21.4 million tonnes (2012:
20.7) of CO 2. Of this amount, 72% resulted
from the Russian operations and 16% from
Finland. The increase in CO 2emissions was
mainly due to increased condensing power
production in Finland.
The specific CO 2emissions from total energy
production rose to 196 g/kWh (2012: 177).
The five-year average, including 2013,
increased to 186 g/kWh (2012: 179).
The five-year average of the specific CO 2
emissions from total energy production have
been increasing during the last five years,
although we are still below the target level of
< 200 g/kWh. The increase in the specific
emissions is a result of the increased share of
our Russian energy production based on
natural gas and coal. In addition, use of coal
increased in Finland and Sweden in 2013.
Fortum's total and specific CO 2emissions
will further increase in the future as a
consequence of the commissioning of thenew production capacity in Russia. Moreover,
the share of coal in the fuel use of our
Russian power plants will evidently increase
due to relative prices and availability of fuels.
The specific CO 2emissions from power
production in the EU were 70 g/kWh (2012:
42) and the five-year average, including 2013,
was 66 g/kWh (2012: 60). Increase in
emissions was mainly caused by increased
coal condensing power production in Finland.
The specific CO 2emissions from Fortum's
power production are low compared to other
major European power producers. Our
specific emissions in 2012 were slightly over
10% of the average specific emissions of
European utilities, 350 g/kWh. Including our
Russian power production, our specific
emissions were slightly below half of the level
of European utilities. European reference data
for 2013 is not yet available.
Total greenhouse gas emissionsTotal greenhouse gas emissions
Fortum reports greenhouse gases in
accordance with the principles of the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol recommended by
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), where
emissions are categorised into scope 1,
scope 2 and scope 3 emissions.The reporting covers direct and indirect CO 2,
methane (CH 4) and nitrous oxide (N 2O)
emissions. Indirect emissions are calculated
using literature-based emission factors and
assumptions on different parts of the fuel
chains. Starting from 2013 the scope 3
greenhouse gas emissions have been
calculated according to the requirements of
the revised Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
Accounting and Reporting standard.
About 79% (2012: 80%) of Fortum's
greenhouse gas emissions were direct CO 2
emissions (scope 1), which are generated
when burning fossil fuels to produce
electricity and heat. Additionally, the direct
emissions include the CO 2emissions of
company cars. The share of indirect
emissions from electricity, heat and steam
purchased from outside sources (scope 2)
wasabout 1% of all greenhouse gas
emissions.
Indirect emissions from the production and
transportation of fuels, from purchased
capital goods, materials and services, from
the use and processing of our products, from
employee travel and from waste generated in
our operations (scope 3) accounted for about
20% (2012: 19%) of greenhouse gas
emissions.
Total greenhouse gas emissions, 2011-2013
MtCO 2-eq 2013 2012 2011
CO2 CH4 N2O Total CO2 CH4 N2O Total CO2 CH4 N2O Total
Scope 1 21.4 0.1 0.2 21.7 20.7 0.1 0.2 21.0 23.5 ~ 0 0.2 23.7
Scope 2 0.3 ~ 0 ~ 0 0.3 0.1 ~ 0 ~ 0 0.1 0.2 ~ 0 ~ 0 0.2
Scope 3 5.51)5.51)1.9 2.9 ~ 0 4.8 2.2 3.3 ~ 0 5.5
Total 27.2 0.1 0.2 27.5 22.8 3.0 0.2 26.0 25.9 3.3 0.2 29.4
1)In 2013 scope 3 emissions reported only as CO 2-eq, not gas by gas.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
85EN17 Other relevant indirectEN17 Other relevant indirect
greenhouse gas emissionsgreenhouse gas emissions
The refrigerants used at Fortum's heat pump
facilities are strong greenhouse gases.
Refrigerant leaks into air amounted to 5.8
tonnes (2012: 3.7), which is equivalent
to7,600 tonnes (2012: 5,100) of CO 2
emissions. The figures for 2012 have been
restated based on corrected emission
information.
SF6is used as isolation gas in switchgears at
a number of substations located in urban
areas. SF 6is a strong greenhouse gas, but
the gas volume is low and the gas is well
confined in the equipment. In 2013,
about 43kg (2012: 24) of SF 6was leaked
into the atmosphere from Fortum's
installations. This is equal to 980 tonnes
(2012: 540) of CO 2emissions.
EN18 Initiatives to reduceEN18 Initiatives to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions andgreenhouse gas emissions and
reductions achievedreductions achieved
New CONew CO 22-free and low-carbon-free and low-carbon
capacitycapacity
One of Fortum's most important measures in
curbing climate change are to increase CO 2-
free or low-carbon energy production and to
improve energy efficiency.
In line with its strategy, Fortum is focusing on
CO2-free hydro and nuclear power and on
energy-efficient combined heat and power
(CHP) production. Emissions trading is also
animportant climate action at Fortum.
During 2013, we inaugurated four new
biomass- and waste fuel-fired CHP plants in
Järvenpää (Finland), Klaipeda (Lithuania),
Jelgava (Latvia) and Brista (Sweden). The total
production capacity of these power plants is
86 MW of electricity and 225 MW of heat.
Currently we are building a 410-MW biomass-
fired CHP plant in Stockholm in Sweden. New
carbon-free and low-carbon capacity is
described in more detail in the section on
Combined Heat and Power.
Refurbishment of our hydropower plants
produced in total 12 MW of new capacity.
Modernisation and power upgrades at
nuclear power plants created 29 MW of
additional carbon-free capacity.Increasing the use of bioenergyIncreasing the use of bioenergy
Increasing the use of bioenergy was studied
at many power plants. At the Värtan power
plant, testing of the use of olive stones in the
fuel mix continued and their share of the fuel
use was 2%. At the Czestochowa CHP plant in
Poland, biomass accounted for one third of
the total fuel use.
In November 2013, Fortum inaugurated a
pyrolysis oil production plant at the Joensuu
power plant. The plant will produce 50,000
tonnes (corresponding to 200-220 GWh of
fuel energy) of bio-oil annually, and it is the
first commercial-scale demonstration plant
on pyrolysis technology. Primary raw
materials will be sawdust and forest residues.
Pyrolysis oil will replace the use of heavy fuel
oil in heat-only boilers and power plants. The
use of 200 GWh of pyrolysis oil instead of
heavy fuel oil can reduce CO 2emissions by
about 60,000 tonnes. In 2013, Fortum
received an environmental permit for the use
of pyrolysis oil at the Vermo heat plant in
Espoo.
The biomass-fuelled combined heat and
power (CHP) plant under construction in
Stockholm, Sweden, will use primarily forest
biomass, but can use a full range of other
types of biomass as well. The share of
bioenergy in fuel use at the Värtan plant will
increase from today's 45% to as high as 70%
upon completion of the plant in 2016. The
use of fossil fuels will decrease accordingly.
In 2013, Fortum used 6,787 GWh of
bioenergy (solid biomass and liquid
biofuels), an 11% increase from the previous
year.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Responsible fuel purchasing
Cutting emissions by improvingCutting emissions by improving
energy efficiencyenergy efficiency
Fortum's activities in improving energy
efficiency are described in EN5.
CCS as future abatement technologyCCS as future abatement technology
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is
expected to have a key role in energy system
transformation in the future. In 2013, Fortumparticipated in CCS research programmes in
Finland and the EU. Fortum was the main
financer of Cleen's CCS research and is
represented in the Zero Emissions Platform.
However, the feasibility of CCS still faces
major technical, economic, social and
political challenges. The current cost level of
CCS does not yet offer solid business cases
for successful investments. Fortum is
focusing on so-called second-generation CCS
concepts and technologies in its research
and considers them more promising than the
technologies researched so far. Research
areas under development are e.g. use of bio-
based fuels in district heating systems and
related carbon capture and storage.
EN19 Emissions of ozone-EN19 Emissions of ozone-
depleting substancesdepleting substances
A variety of refrigerants are used in Fortum's
heat pump facilities in Stockholm, Sweden,
and in Espoo, Finland. Emissions of
refrigerants into the atmosphere were 5.8
(2012: 3.7) tonnes, which is 13 kg (2012:
38)asCFC-11 equivalent. The figures for
2012 have been restated based on corrected
source data.
EN20 NOEN20 NO XX, SO, SO22and otherand other
significant air emissionssignificant air emissions
In 2013, Fortum's thermal energy production
emitted 32,000 tonnes (2012: 29,400) of
NOX,22,100 tonnes (2012: 19,800) of SO 2
and20,800 tonnes (2012: 16,000) of particle
emissions. Due to technical and contractual
limitations the use of lower quality coal
increased at Russian power plants, which
contributed especially to higher particle
emissions. NO Xand SO 2emissions were also
affected by increased condensing power
production in Finland.
About 69% (2012: 72%) of the flue-gas
emissions (SO 2and NO X) and about 96%
(2012: 96%) of the particle emissions
originated from the Russian operations. The
most significant source of particle emissions
(13,500 tonnes in 2013) is the Argayash
plant in Russia.
Fortum's mercury emissions into air
were 151 kg (2012: 130).
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
86SO2, NOxand particle emissions by country in 2013
thousand tonnes SO2 NOx Particles
Russia 14.0 23.1 20.0
Finland 4.1 4.9 0.2
Poland 3.7 1.6 0.6
Sweden 0.1 1.2 0.0
Great Britain 0.0 0.3 0.0
Other countries 0.2 0.8 0.0
Fortum's SO 2, NOXand particle emissions in 2011-2013
thousand tonnes 2013 2012 2011
SO2 22.1 19.8 24.9
NOX 32.0 29.4 36.0
Particles 20.8 16.0 16.6
EN21 Total water dischargeEN21 Total water discharge
Energy production's impacts on water
systems are mainly caused by the thermal
load of cooling water discharges and the
impurities in wastewater effluents. All
wastewater is conducted directly to municipal
sewage treatment plants or cleaned on-site
before being discharged into water systems.
In 2013, Fortum used a total of 2,245 million
m3(2012: 2,017) of cooling water that was
mostly discharged back to water systems.
The thermal load on the water systemswas19 TWh (2012: 17). The biggest single
water withdrawal in 2013 was at the Loviisa
nuclear power plant in Finland, where 1,390
million m3of cooling water was withdrawn
and discharged back to the sea. The thermal
load into the sea was 16 TWh. Measurements
indicate that the cooling water has increased
the temperature of surface water by 1–2 ºC
within a distance of 1–2 kilometres from the
discharge point. During the year, about two
toness of oil was released into water systems
with the waste water discharges from
Fortum's power plants. In addition, about one
tonne of oil was released into theenvironment in three separate oil leak
incidents.
In recent years there have been frequent
violations of wastewater permits at Fortum's
power plants in Russia. Corrective actions to
improve performance continued in 2013; an
anti-corrosive agent was changed and water
flows through the ash ponds were separated
and reduced at coal-fired power plants. In
addition, a study was initiated on the
installation of better oil separation systems.
Waste water emissions by recipient in 2011-2013
million m32013 2012 2011
Sea 9.9 9.1 3.9
Fresh water system 22.6 22.9 20.7
Municipal sewage 1.9 2.7 1.7
Other recipient 0.1 0.3 0.2
EN22 Total amount of waste byEN22 Total amount of waste by
type and disposal methodtype and disposal method
Fortum's thermal power plants use millions of
tonnes of solid fuels annually. Ash from
incineration and gypsum from flue gas
desulphurisation account for the clearly
biggest share of the by-products and wastes
from Fortum's energy production, over 90%
on the average.
All energy production generates normal
industrial waste, which is either recycled or
disposed of at landfill sites. Part of waste is
classified as hazardous waste and istrasported for treatment at licensed
hazardous waste treatment plants. The
volume of radioactive wastes generated in
nuclear power production is small, but special
solutions are needed in their treatment and
disposal.
The total volume of by-products and wastes
was 1,025,000 tonnes (2012: 773,000). The
increase was mainly caused by increased
volumes of ashes and contaminated soil.Ash and by-productsAsh and by-products
About 863,000 tonnes (2012: 720,000) of
ash, 29,000 tonnes (2012: 9,200) of gypsum
and 15,800 tonnes (2012: 10,100) of other
desulphurisation product were generated in
2013. About 37% of the ash was generated at
Russian plants, 22% in Sweden and 21% in
Finland.
In Europe, ash and gypsum from
desulphurisation are utilised and recycled as
efficiently as possible. In Russia, ash is stored
in ponds because it does not have other
usages, except for building embankments for
ash ponds. In addition, the wet ash handling
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
87makes utilisation more difficult. In 2013, the
ash recycling rate at Fortum was 48% (2012:
51)and the gypsum recycling rate 99%
(2012: 89%). The gypsum utilisation rate for
2012 has been recalculated after
reclassifying desulphurisation product from
Suomenoja power plant as waste and not as
gypsum.
Gypsum was utilised in the gypsum board
industry. Fly ash was used in the constructionmaterial industry, in road construction and in
backfilling mines. In Finland, the Joensuu
power plant submitted a permit application in
order to construct a noise barrier around the
power plant area. The power plant's own ash
would be utilised in construction. The CE-
marking for bottom ashes of Fortum power
plants was started in 2013.
Any remaining by-products that cannot be
utilised are deposited in landfills orintermediate storage. About 453,000 tonnes
(2012: 351,000) of ash, 290 tonnes (2012:
1000) of gypsum and 15,800 tonnes (2012:
10,100) of other desulphurisation product
were deposited in landfill sites. All
desulphurisation product from the
Suomenoja power plant is disposed of as
waste, since it has no potential for utilisation.
Ash and gypsum handling in 2011-2013
thousand tonnes 2013 2012 2011
Ash utilisation 410 369 429
Ash disposal 453 351 400
Gypsum utilisation 28.8 8.1 30.6
Gypsum disposal 0.3 1.0 0.1
Nuclear wasteNuclear waste
Fortum used 20tonnes (2012: 23) of
uranium fuel at the Loviisa nuclear power
plant and produced a corresponding amount
of high-level radioactive nuclear waste. In
addition, about 160 m3(2012: 130) of low-
and intermediate-level radioactive waste was
produced. After measuring the radioactivity,
some of the low-level waste was reclassified
as non-radioactive and was released from
control to be disposed of like other
conventional waste.
Low- and intermediate-level nuclear waste is
disposed of in the underground repository at
the power plant site in Loviisa. During2013, 38 m3(2012: 57) of low-level
maintenance waste was disposed of in the
repository. At the end of the 2013, 16% of the
current disposal capacity was in use. In 2013,
60 m3(2012: 49) of liquid waste was
produced. This liquid waste, like evaporation
waste and the ion exchange resins, will be
solidified with conrete before final disposal.
The solidification plant was in test use in
2013. The volume of the evaporation waste is
further reduced with a caesium removal
system before solidification.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Nuclear waste management
•Final disposal of nuclear wasteOther wasteOther waste
Fortum's operations generated a total
of48,800 tonnes (2012: 42,000) of waste
(excluding gypsum and ash deposited in
landfills), 7,200 tonnes (2012: 10,400) of
which was hazardous. In addition, 85,000
tonnes (2012: 3,100) of contaminated soil
was removed in building and site remediation
projects. Most of it originated from the
foundation works of the new CHP plant under
construction in Stockholm, Sweden.
Waste handling in 2011-2013
thousand tonnes 2013 2012 2011
Recycling/recovery 12.4 12.7 8.1
Landfill 29.2 18.81)16.51)
Hazardous waste recovery 2.0 4.7 -
Hazardous waste disposal 5.2 5.8 12.8
Yhteensä 48.8 42.0 37.4
1)Recalculated based on reclassification of Suomenoja desulphurisation product
EN23 Total number andEN23 Total number and
volume of significant spillsvolume of significant spills
In 2013, there were 19 spills of more than
100 litres (2012: 11) into the environment.
The total volume of the spills was about
20m3. Most of the spills were bio-oil. Thebiggest single leak was 10 m3of bio-oil at the
Hässelby power plant in Sweden.
About 5.8 tonnes of refrigerants was leaked
into the air from heat pump facilities. None of
the spills caused major environmental
impact.EN24 Transported, imported,EN24 Transported, imported,
exported, or treated hazardousexported, or treated hazardous
wastewaste
Not relevant for Fortum.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
88EN25 Water bodies andEN25 Water bodies and
habitats affected by dischargeshabitats affected by discharges
of waterof water
Fortum's discharges of waste water and
runoff have only a minor impact on waterbodies and related habitats. For a more
detailed description, see EN12 andEN14 .
Products and servicesProducts and services
EN26 MitigatingEN26 Mitigating
environmental impacts ofenvironmental impacts of
products and servicesproducts and services
Fortum's main products are electricity and
heat, the use of which does not cause direct
emissions. Indirect emissions may be caused
if electricity and heat are used in operations
that themselves cause environmental
impacts.
Fortum is building a low-carbon society by
offering products and services that can help
mitigate climate change also in other sectorsof society. Fortum's CO 2-free electricity and
heat products make it possible to reduce the
environmental impacts of our customers'
energy use (part of the customers' carbon
footprint).
In Finland and in Sweden, Fortum's carbon-
neutral heat product offers users the
opportunity to influence their CO 2emissions.
Companies can purhcase international
emissions reduction units to offset the
carbon emissions generated from the heating
they use.The CO 2emissions reduction of our
customers' energy use can be assessed by
assuming that all the electricity sold by
Fortum in Finland and Sweden (10.6 TWh in
2013) would have had the average specific
CO2emissions of the Nordic electricity mix
(258 g/kWh in 2012). Calculated this way
the CO 2emissions would have been about
2.7 million tonnes. The use of Fortum's CO 2-
free electricity generated no greenhouse gas
emissions.
ComplianceCompliance
EN28 Significant fines andEN28 Significant fines and
sanctions for non-compliancesanctions for non-compliance
with environmentalwith environmental
regulationsregulations
In Fortum's European operations, two
significant environmental non-compliances or
permit violations occurred in 2013 (2012: 0):
a release of coloured district heating water,
and an excessive water level in hydropowerproduction. In Russia, the total number of
non-compliances (12) related to discharge
water emissions stayed at the same level as
in 2012.
The amount of fines paid for discharge water
permit violations in Russia remained at the
2012 level, i.e. about EUR 1,000. The actions
to reduce the permit violations continued by
changing the anticorrosion agent, increasing
the water circulation, and separating and
reducing the water flows through ash pondsofthe coal-fired power plants. Additionally,
studies were initiated to install better oil
separation systems.
At the beginning of 2014 Fortum received a
fine of SEK 140,000 for a too low of a water
flow in 2011 at the Ljunga hydropower plant
in Sweden.
TransportsTransports
EN29 Environmental impactsEN29 Environmental impacts
of transportationof transportation
Fortum reports the greenhouse gas emissions
of its company car fleet and the company
benefit cars operated by its employees. In
2013, the CO 2emissions from Fortum's cars
were 2,500 tonnes. Fortum also reports the
CO2emissions from the flights of its
employees and offsets for the emissionsannually. In 2013, the CO 2emissions from
Fortum's air travel were 3,600 tonnes.
Together, Fortum's cars and air travel
accounted for 0.02% of the total greenhouse
gas emissions .
The indirect emissions from the shipping of
coal, oil and wood fuels have been roughly
estimated. The CO 2emissions were about
193,000 tonnes, contributing to 0.7% of
Fortum's total greenhouse gas emissions.Transporting fuels and materials by road and
rail results in emissions of SO 2, NOXand
particles. Fortum has no relevant information
on the transport equipment of the fuel
suppliers; therefore, these emissions cannot
be calculated.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
89OverallOverall
EN30 Total environmentalEN30 Total environmental
protection expenditures andprotection expenditures and
investmentsinvestments
EHS expendituresEHS expenditures
Fortum's Environmental, Health and Safety
(EHS) expenditures (EHS investments and
operating costs) are costs resulting from
measures that primarily aim to manage and
reduce the environmental impacts of
Fortum's operations or to improve
operational safety.Costs are defined as EHS costs regardless of
whether the measures are mandatory on the
basis of legislation or permit conditions or
whether they are voluntary. Costs related to
environmentally benign products and services
are also included.
In 2013, Fortum's investments in
environment and safety were a total of
EUR 69 million (2012: 63). The investments
were mainly related to health and safety, air
pollution control and dam safety. Operating
costs related to the environment, health and
safety were EUR 65 million (2012: 62). The
costs include, e.g., use and maintenance of
environmental protection equipment andsystems, emissions and environmental
monitoring, decontamination of polluted soil,
maintaining and developing biodiversity,
development of EHS management systems,
research and development work related to
improving the management of environmental
impacts, and the necessary environmental
impact assessment reports and permit
applications.
The figures are illustrative, because EHS
costs and investments are not yet itemised in
detail in cost accounting.
EHS operating costs1)in 2012-2013
EUR million 2013 2012
Environmental research 22.3 24.4
Health and safety 7.1 11.1
EHS management 4.3 7.9
Air pollution control 12.9 6.1
Waste management 5.2 4.0
Prevention and remediation of soil and water contamination 1.2 2.3
Waste water management 2.4 2.2
Other environmental protection 5.3 2.1
Environmental compensations and fines 3.3 1.8
Development of environmentally benign products and services 0.8 0.3
Total 64.8 62.2
1) Allocated data was not collected in 2011
Environmental liabilitiesEnvironmental liabilities
Environmental risks and liabilities in relation
to past actions are regularly assessed and
based on this necessary provisions are made
for future remedial costs. In most cases
environmental liabilities in relation to past
operations relate to the dismantling of
buildings and structures on contaminated
land, remediation of contaminated areas or
landscaping and after-treatment of closed
disposal areas. During 2013, Fortum
collected information on environmental risk
cases of its operations. The aim is to
categorise the identified cases and to define
the related potential provisions in 2014.
In 2013, the provisions for future remedial
costs concerning environmental damage
amounted to a total of EUR 11 million. Themain part of the provisions is likely to be used
within the next ten years.
In Sweden, third-party liabilities from dam
failures are strictly the plant owner's
responsibility. Together with other hydro
power producers, Fortum has a shared dam
liability insurance programme in place that
covers Swedish dam failure liabilities up to
SEK 9,000 million.
According to the renewed Nuclear Energy Act
in Finland Fortum submitted the proposal for
the nuclear waste management liability
regarding the Loviisa nuclear power plant to
the Ministry of Employment and the Economy
at the end of June 2013. The legal liability is
calculated according to the Nuclear Energy
Act in Finland and is decided by the Ministry
every year. The liability is based on a
technical plan, which is made every thirdyear. Based on the new technical plan, the
cost estimate was updated in early 2013.
Following the update of technical plan,
thelegal liability increased due to anticipated
increase in the future costs of interim storage
and final disposal of spent fuel.
The legal liability by the end of 2013, decided
by the Ministry of Employment and the
Economy and calculated according to the
Nuclear Energy Act, is EUR 1,059 million
(2012: 996).
Read more aboutRead more about
•Nuclear related asstes and liabilities .
•Environmental liabilities
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
90Social performance indicatorsSocial performance indicators
Employees and work conditionsEmployees and work conditions
LA1 Total workforce byLA1 Total workforce by
employment type andemployment type and
employment contract, brokenemployment contract, broken
down by region and genderdown by region and gender
In 2013, an average of 10,246 employees
(2012: 10,600) worked at Fortum . The
biggest number of employees was in Russia,4,245 employees (2012: 4,301) on average.
Subcontractor employees worked at Fortum
sites for a total of approximately 1,961,526
(2012: 1,900,000) days during the year. The
figure is based on contractors' hourly logs
and on estimates based on job costs and
average hourly rates. The figure has been
calculated on the basis of an 8-hour work
day.The number of Fortum's permanent
employees on 31 December 2013 was 9,515
(2012: 9,899), i.e. 96.2% (2012: 95.4%) of
the personnel. The number of full-time
employees was 9,264 (2012: 9,644) and
part-time 251 (2012: 255). The percentage of
fixed-term employees was 3.8% (2012: 4.6%).
Workforce by employment contract and employment type, broken down by region and gender
Finland Sweden Russia PolandOther
countries Total
M F M F M F M F M F M F
Employment contract
Permanent 1,743 645 1,335 550 2,894 1,049 496 137 464 202 6,932 2,583
Fixed-term 53 36 22 32 136 83 1 2 1 5 213 158
Employment type (permanently
employed)
Full-time 1,692 592 1,287 484 2,891 1,045 496 137 458 182 6,824 2,440
Part-time 51 53 48 66 3 4 0 0 6 20 108 143
Personnel statistics from 2013, by country of operation
Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries Total
Personnel at year-end 2,477 1,939 4,162 636 672 9,886
male 1,796 1,357 3,030 497 465 7,145
female 681 582 1,132 139 207 2,741
Personnel,
average 2,616 1,993 4,245 660 732 10,246
Personnel expenses,
1,000 euros 208,142* 177,085 87,905 14,881 40,786* 528,799*
Personnel expenses per
person, 1,000 euros 79,6* 88.9 20.7 22.5 55,7* 51.6
*) The figures have been changed after the assurance in March 2014
Personnel by division, 31 Dec.
2013 2012 2011
Power 1,709 1,846 1,847
Heat 2,102 2,212 2,504
ESD 1,348 1,379 1,417
Russia 4,162 4,253 4,379
Other 565 681 633
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
91Total 9,886 10,371 10,780
Service years1)of the permanent employees in 2012-2013, %
2013 2012
0-5 yrs. 34 35
6-10 yrs. 18 15
11-15 yrs. 10 10
16-20 yrs. 10 10
21-26 yrs. 11 11
27-30 yrs. 8 9
31+ 9 10
1)Data was not collected in 2011.
LA2 Total number and rate ofLA2 Total number and rate of
new employee hires andnew employee hires and
employee turnover by ageemployee turnover by age
group, country and gendergroup, country and genderDuring the year, 552 (2012: 878) new
employees joined Fortum and 910 (2012:
1,176) employment relationships were
terminated. Divestments reduced the number
of personnel by a total of 126 (2012: 259).
There were 36 (2012: 36) employees on
international assignment. Departure turnover
in 2013 was 9.7% (2012: 12%)Read more aboutRead more about
•Fortum's employees
Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, country and gender
Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries
New employee hires M F M F M F M F M F
no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
-25 0 1 8 1 59 18 0 0 0 3
25-29 9 4 13 3 80 26 1 0 10 4
30-34 12 1 7 3 59 13 1 0 5 2
35-39 9 2 13 4 25 8 0 0 4 2
40-44 4 0 9 1 19 8 2 0 8 1
45-49 0 2 2 1 12 2 3 1 4 0
50-54 3 1 4 1 18 5 5 1 6 0
55-59 1 0 0 0 2 1 1 0 2 1
60+ 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 8 0
New recruits, % 1.6 0.5 3.0 0.7 7.0 2.1 2.2 0.3 9.2 2.6
Finland Sweden Russia Poland Other countries
Employees leaving M F M F M F M F M F
no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
-25 1 0 2 5 25 7 0 0 4 1
25-29 10 3 3 4 37 17 2 0 14 3
30-34 19 3 13 10 34 20 4 2 17 1
35-39 17 6 14 12 37 10 2 1 10 2
40-44 17 8 16 8 27 22 5 2 11 1
45-49 10 4 16 5 28 11 7 4 15 4
50-54 13 4 10 6 34 11 5 5 8 3
55-59 18 2 13 5 32 13 11 5 8 3
60+ 16 0 19 2 27 11 5 5 16 6
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
92Departure turnover, % 5.1 1.3 5.6 3.0 7.1 3.1 6.5 3.8 20.2 4.7
LA3 Employee benefits for full-LA3 Employee benefits for full-
time employeestime employees
Inprinciple, Fortum's employee benefits are
country-specific and comply with local
legislation and the prevailing market
situation. Local market practices and
eligibility criteria are followed for typical
fringe benefits and include, for example, car
and mobile phone benefits. These benefits
are mainly for permanent employees. In
addition to fringe benefits, Fortum also
provides various employee benefits. These
include, for example, occupational health
care, longevity pay for years of service,
discounted electricity prices and recreational
and leisure activities. These benefits are
mainly for all employees.
Fortum in Finland is participating in the Tekes
EVE - Electric Vehicle Systems Programme;
employees choosing an electric company car
will receive monthly monetary subsidy. The
subsidy applies to battery electric vehicles
(BEVs) and Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles
(PHEVs).
Fortum encourages its employees to exercise
and to enjoy culture. In Finland, Sweden and
Russia, all Fortum employees can join
different personnel clubs offering activities
related to sports, nature and the arts.
In 2013, Fortum's support for employee
recreational and leisure activities in Finland
was EUR 338,387 (2012: 415,000). The
support included clubs, fitness and culture
vouchers, and activities related to vacation
homes. In Sweden, the support for clubs was
EUR 121,622 (2012: 111,100). In Poland,
support for employee fitness activities
amounted to EUR 8,860 (2012: 19,300). In
Russia, support for employee social
programmes was about EUR 200,000 (2012:
309,000).
Labour/management relationsLabour/management relations
Collaboration between employees and
Fortum management is based on local
legislation and the Code of Conduct . In
Finland, Fortum's employee representationsystem is site- and company- and division-
specific, and representatives in the co-
operation bodies are chosen by the employee
representatives from amongst themselves.
Group collaboration meetings in Finland are
held at least twice a year in conjunction with
the Group's financial statements and interim
reports.
In addition to Group collaboration meetings,
there are also division- or function-level co-
operation bodies that meet a few times per
year. The co-operation and employment
group is comprised of seven representatives
chosen from amongst the delegates. This
group holds meetings under the supervision
of Senior Vice President, Human Resources
approximately five times per year; it is the
decision making body in Finland-level
collaboration issues and it also appoints
personnel representatives for the preparation
of various development projects.
In Sweden, the system is fundamentally
identical. In Sweden, collaboration between
personnel representatives and Fortum
management at the central level takes place
in the Council (Sverigerådet) that convenes
twice a year. The collaboration forms are
based on the agreement made between the
company and personnel representatives.
Additionally, there are a significant number of
meetings held locally during the year.
In Estonia, the Working Councils convened
five times during 2013. These councils are for
co-operation between an employer and the
employees' representatives and focus on
resolving, for example, occupational health
and safety issues in the enterprise.
Additionally, there are meetings between
personnel representatives and employer
representatives on an as-needed basis.
In Poland, some 35 meetings were arranged
with the local labour union. The meetings
focused on salary- and benefits-related
issues, occupational safety, improving
collaboration, and harmonisation of benefits.
In Russia, in line with local legislation, the
collective bargaining agreement and the
Fortum Code of Conduct, division
management closely collaborates with unionrepresentatives within the labour relations
board and veteran council. These
bodies meet on an as-needed basis to
resolve various matters related to
management and employees' relations.
As a rule, the Fortum European Council (FEC)
convenes once a year. FEC is a Europe-wide
co-operation body where employees and
employer representatives meet to discuss
Fortum matters. In 2013, the Fortum
European Council (FEC) held a meeting in
May in Finland, and personnel
representatives from Finland, Sweden,
Poland, Norway and Estonia participated.
Issues on the Council's agenda included the
CEO's current review; themed workshops
included occupational health and safety, well-
being as well as improving communication
and the handling of confidential information.
LA4 Coverage of collectiveLA4 Coverage of collective
bargaining agreementsbargaining agreements
Fortum respects its employees' freedom of
association and collective bargaining, and
does not monitor the degree of unionisation
of its employees. Fortum applies local
collective bargaining agreements in all
countries where it operates, in compliance
with the scope of each respective agreement.
LA5 Minimum notice periodLA5 Minimum notice period
regarding operational changesregarding operational changes
In situations of organisational restructuring,
Fortum negotiates with personnel
representatives in compliance with each
country's local legislation and contractual
procedures. The minimum notice period is
based on local legislation, collective
agreements or employment contracts, which
are in harmony with local legislation and
agreements. In situations involving personnel
reductions, Fortum aims primarily to support
the re-employment of its personnel.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
93Occupational health and safetyOccupational health and safety
LA6 Representation in jointLA6 Representation in joint
health and safety committeeshealth and safety committees
Fortum's occupational health care is
organised in all countries of operation in
accordance with local laws and regulations.
Workplace well-being andwork safety are
regularly addressed also in occupational
safety committees, which operate in line with
local legislative requirements and represent
all personnel groups.
LA7 Rates of injury,LA7 Rates of injury,
occupational diseases, lostoccupational diseases, lost
days, fatalities anddays, fatalities and
absenteeism by area and byabsenteeism by area and by
gendergender
Fortum's performance in occupational safety
for its own personnel improved in 2013. The
lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) per
million working hours for Fortum's own
personnel decreased to 1.1 (2012: 1.5). The
result was Fortum's all-time best. There were
20 work-related injuries resulting in an
absence in 2013 (2012: 29). All of the
injuries happened to males. Fortum
personnel's total recordable injury frequency
(TRIF) per million working hours, which
includes also minor injuries that do not lead
to an absence, improved to 2.8 (2012: 3.4).
There were no fatal accidents to own
personnel during 2013. The number of
serious occupational accidents to Fortum
personnel, resulting in an absence of more
than 30 days, increased from 3 to 5. Fortum
personnel absence days resulting from work-
related injuries increased slightly from 2012
to 599 days (2012: 560).
Safety management at Fortum equally
encompasses contractors and service
providers working at Fortum sites. The LWIF
for contractors weakened from 3.8 to 4.8. In
2013, there was one contractor fatality at the
Chelyabinsk CHP-2 unit in Russia. In February2014 a fatal contractor accident took place
in electricity distribution in
Sweden. Unfortunately, both the total number
of contractor accidents and the number of
serious contractor accidents increased in
2013. There were a total of 76 contractor
accidents leading to absence (2012: 57), 15
of them were serious and resulted in
anabsence of more than 30 days (2012: 7).
Most of our organisations improved
contractor safety, but due to the challenges
in some parts of the organisation, the total
result was unsatisfactory. The biggest
challenges were experienced in improvement
and investment projects in Sweden and
Russia, and in repair and improvement works
in electricity distribution.
Contractor safety remains a major challenge
and will continue to be a focus area in 2014.
Several ongoing initiatives have been
extended and new initiatives started in order
to improve the situation.
A common contractor safety management
model was adopted during the year. In order
to ensure an even higher focus on contractor
safety, a contractor LWIF was included in the
Group-wide targets as of 1 January 2014.
Contractor safety will also have more
significance in the bonus systems.
In 2013, the proactive indicator targets
(safety reports and initiatives, completion of
the agreed actions and safety observation
tours) were achieved. The number of safety
reports and initiatives increased considerably
compared to 2012 due to the high activity in
the Heat and Russia Divisions and the more
clearly defined reporting practices in the
Russia Division.
Plant safety was somewhat worse than in
2012. A new key performance indicator,
major EHS incidents, was introduced as a
Fortum-level indicator. It combines fires,
leaks over 100 l, explosions, dam and nuclear
safety (INES) incidents, and environmental
non-compliances. Some clarifications
concerning definitions and reporting weremade, so the result is not fully comparable to
the previous years' results. The target for
2013 was to have fewer than 40 major EHS
incidents. There were 51 incidents during the
year 2013. The majority of the incidents did
not cause damage to plants or the
environment but some of the oil leaks caused
the need for soil remediation and some of the
fires and explosions resulted in short
production disturbances. During 2013, there
were two INES 1 (International Nuclear Event
Scale) events at the Loviisa plant (2012: 3).
They didn't cause any injuries to people or
damage to the plant or the environment.
Fortum strives to ensure safe and healthy
work conditions for personnel and supports
the maintenance and development of working
capacity. The monitoring of sickness-related
absences is defined at the Group-level, and
the rate of absence due to sickness was 2.5%
in 2013 (2012: 3.1%); the rate of absence
due to sickness was 2.3% (2012: 3.1%) for
males and 3.3% (2012: 3%) for females. The
sickness rate is calculated based on the
reported theoretical working hours of the
permanent employees.
In 2013, there were four (2012: 3) cases of
suspected occupational diseases in Finland.
The suspected occupational diseases are
related to noise and occurred with males. In
spring about 50 people working at the
Högdalen power-plant in Sweden, reported
respiratory track and skin symptoms. Based
on the investigation done in collaboration
with the Swedish Centre of Occupational and
Environmental Medicine (Centrum för Arbets-
och miljömedicin), the most obvious cause of
the respiratory track symptoms was the
higher than normal dust concentration
combined with cold, dry weather. The skin
irritation was most likely caused by tiny
fibreglass-like fibres. None of the employees
received permanent damage or illness.
Immediate actions were taken at the plant to
prevent a recurrence of the problem.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
94Key safety figures in 2011-2013
2013 2012 2011
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF)1), own personnel 1.1 1.5 1.6
Lost workday injuries, own personnel 20 29 29
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF)1), contractors 4.8 3.8 3.2
Lost workday injuries, contractors 76 57 45
Total recordable injury frequency, own personnel2)2.8 3.4 3.5
Fatalities, own personnel 0 0 0
Fatalities, contractors 1 1 1
Number of safety observation tours 16,644 17,507 15,324
Number of improvement proposals and near-miss reports 21,876 6,362 10,087
1)LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency per one million working hours
2)TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency per one million working hours
Sickness absence rate of the permanent employees in 2012-2013
2013 2012
Male Female Male Female
Finland 2.7 3.1 2.8 3.2
Sweden 2.3 3.7 2.2 3.9
Russia 2.0 1.9 2.1 2.2
Poland 2.6 4.6 3.5 5.0
Other countries 2.3 2.9 2.9 3.0
LA8 Education and counsellingLA8 Education and counselling
to assist workforce membersto assist workforce members
regarding serious diseasesregarding serious diseases
All Fortum employees are covered within the
sphere of Fortum's occupational health care
as required by local legislation.
Fortum's occupational health care service
emphasises the significance of preventive
activities in promoting well-being in the
company as well as employee counselling for
work-related or serious illnesses. Fortum
conducts regular examinations in accordance
with local laws; employees who are exposed
to e.g. noise, dust, radiation or perform shift
work are within the sphere of the
examinations. Occupational health care
participates also in various discussions and
assessments in the work community. The
occupational health care professionals
support management by providing
information on preventive actions as well as
alternatives when the ability to work
decreases. They also offer methods and tools
for these situations.In 2013, an average of 2,412 (2012: 2,660)
employees in Finland was within the sphere
of Fortum's occupational health care. About
90% (2012: 80%) of them used Fortum's own
occupational health care services and about
10% (2012: 20%) used contracted health
clinics. The total costs of Fortum's own
occupational health care in Finland were
about EUR 1.2 million (2012: 1.3). The
occupational health care costs per person in
Finland, calculated from the share paid by
Fortum, were EUR 569 (2012: 580).
Preventive activities accounted for 50%
(2012: 43%) of occupational health care
visits. In Sweden, all employees are within the
sphere of Fortum's occupational health care
services. 439 employees used the service
(2012: 681). Occupational health care costs
in Sweden were EUR 113 per person (2012:
130).
Fortum covers all employees' occupational
health care in Fortum's countries of operation
as required by law. In Russia, employees are
within the sphere of a medical expenses
insurance plan and can use private medical
services. Also each production plant in Russia
has a healthcare station with nursing-level
first-aid services.EU16 Policies andEU16 Policies and
requirements regarding healthrequirements regarding health
and safety of employees andand safety of employees and
employees of contractors andemployees of contractors and
subcontractorssubcontractors
Everyday work is guided by Fortum- and local-
level EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety)
guidelines. There are some 20 Group-level
safety instructions, such as instructions for
contractor management, incident
investigation, fire and electrical safety,
asbestos management, change management,
work permit system requirements, safety
management in investment projects, risk
assessment practices, deviation reporting
and EHS training. Additionally, there are
common minimum requirements also for EHS
meetings, personal protective equipment and
high-risk jobs. Local organisations address
their relevant safety issues, such as nuclear
power plant safety and dam safety, in more
detail. The instructions apply to Fortum's own
and contractor employees.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
95Read more aboutRead more about
•Safety
EU18 Percentage of contractorEU18 Percentage of contractor
and subcontractor employeesand subcontractor employees
that have undergone relevantthat have undergone relevant
health and safety traininghealth and safety training
The safety of subcontractor and contractor
employees is as important as the safety of
Fortum's own employees. Contractor safety
targets are set based on a continuous
improvement principle, safety incidents and
accidents are reported, accidents are
investigated, and safety performance
indicators are monitored on a monthly basis.
Contractor and subcontractor safety is
considered in all aspects of contractor
management – from selection and job
performance to the post-performance
evaluation. Requirements are set forth in the
corporate-level safety instructions and thepurchasing organisation's instructions, and
the local organisation can have more specific
instructions. During 2013, new requirements
for contractor safety management were
implemented. Additionally, locally, for
example in Sweden and in Russia, improved
practices were introduced after accidents
occurred.
One of the key elements in the instructions is
the requirement to provide proper induction
training and on-site orientation to all workers,
including contractors, before starting the
work. Efficient induction training ensures a
good understanding of site-specific risks,
procedures and safety requirements.
Induction training is valid for a limited period,
typically, not more than three years.
Induction training includes at least site-
specific safety requirements, rules,
instructions, work permit procedures, the
main risks of the site and how to prepare for
them, the required personnel protective
equipment, near-miss and incident reporting,
emergency response, inspections,housekeeping, fire protection, first-aid
systems, evacuation plans, and the
individuals responsible for these tasks.
Verification that the safety procedures and
requirements given in the induction training
are understood is ensured by using
interpreters, when needed, and by testing. All
of these requirements cover all types of
contractors and subcontractors.
Implementation of the training is the
responsibility of the local organisations.
In 2013, safety training for subcontractors
was again a focus. E-learning training was
used in the ESD Division and in the Heat
Division's Finland operations. In the Heat
Division's Sweden operations, the
improvement of the existing e-learning
training was started. In the Russia Division,
thecontractor safety training procedure was
improved by adding a post-training
evaluation. More than 22,000 contractors
were trained in Fortum's operations in 2013:
some 15,000 in the Russia Division, and
some 7,000 in the Heat Division, Sweden.
Training and educationTraining and education
LA11 Programmes for skillsLA11 Programmes for skills
management and lifelongmanagement and lifelong
learninglearning
Fortum offers its employees many internal
training programmes to support the various
development needs. As part of the Leading
Performance and Growth initiative, Fortum
has arranged a leadership development
programme aimed at all managers. The key
goal of the Leadership Impact programme
has been to deepen the understanding and
skills required from individuals in
management positions to lead performance
and growth. Increasing self-awareness and
developing coaching skills have been central
themes in the programme. In 2013, the main
elements of the Leadership Impact
programme were 360° assessments and aone-day training event. Since autumn 2011,
nearly 1,000 managers from all of Fortum's
countries of operation have participated in
the programmes offered in Finnish, Swedish,
Polish, Russian and English. In the future, the
same themes will be covered in a new
MASTER course, Growing Leader, targeted
mainly for new managers.
The aim of the MASTER courses offered to
Fortum managers is to improve their
competence in meeting the challenges of
supervisory work. In addition, the intention is
to harmonise and develop the way of
operating in HR processes in Fortum. The
one-day MASTER courses consist of theory,
exercises and dialogue. In 2013, the main
course themes were performance and
development discussions, recruitment, labour
laws, rewarding, growing in leadership,
working environment andconvincing performance. There was a total of
16 MASTER training days with 163
participants.
In 2013, 107 employees (2012: 324) learned
about Fortum's operations through the
Fortum Passport online onboarding
programme for new employees. The
programme covers several different topics,
including the Code of Conduct, sustainability
principles and safety. The programme also
includes a Joiner's Survey that is used to
collect feedback about and develop the
recruitment and onboarding process.
In 2013, training costs totaled approximately
EUR 5.0 million (2012: 7.9).
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
96Level of education of the permanent employees in 2011-2013, %
2013 2012 2011
Doctorate 1 1 0.5
University 37 35 34
Lower university 7 7 5.5
College 26 26 29
Vocational 22 22 21.5
Compulsory 3 3 3.5
Not indicated 4 6 6
LA12 Employees receivingLA12 Employees receiving
regular performance andregular performance and
career development reviews bycareer development reviews by
gendergender
Fortum's permanent employees in all
operating countries are within the scope of
the performance and development discussion
processes, which are implemented on a
personal and/or team level. The annual
performance and development reviews
support the employee/supervisor dialogue
about goals, achievements and opportunities
for professional development. The
discussions aim to commit and motivate
employees, engage them in the
implementation of the strategy, businessgoals and operating plans, and improve
operational planning, the workplace
atmosphere and the flow of information, as
well as promote performance and growth at
the individual and corporate level.
Personal and/or team-specific targets
aligned with Fortum's strategy are set at the
beginning of the year. At the same time, the
needed competence is verified and last year's
performance is assessed. The achievement of
targets forms the basis for incentives to be
paid. Permanent employees, who have
aminimum of three months of employment in
Fortum are within the scope of Fortum's
incentive plan. The aim is to implement a
Fortum-wide performance and development
model at all Fortum sites.The performance and development process
applies to all permanent employees, however,
the electronic tool used in the process in
2013 covered about 67% (2012: 64%) of the
personnel globally, out of which the
performance and development process was
conducted for 97% (2012: 96%). The
performance and development process was
nearly equally completed among female
employees 95% (2012: 95.8%) and male
employees 98% (2012: 96.3%). Company-
wide completion rate will be available when
all countries and employee groups are
covered by the electronic tool.
Equal opportunitiesEqual opportunities
LA13 Composition ofLA13 Composition of
governance bodies andgovernance bodies and
breakdown of employeesbreakdown of employees
Fortum promotes equal treatment and
opportunities in recruiting, remuneration,
development and career advancement,
regardless of the employee's race, religion,
political views, gender, age, nationality,language, sexual orientation, marital status or
possible disabilities. Any form of harassment
is forbidden and addressed immediately. In
Finland and Sweden, Fortum has separate
guidelines for workplace harassment and
discrimination. In 2013, there was no cases
of discrimination reported (2012: 1).
The average age of Fortum's permanent
employees in 2013 was 44 years (2012: 44),and the share of employees over 50 years
was 36% (2012: 36%). In 2013, women
accounted for 28% (2012: 28%) of Fortum's
total personnel. Women accounted for 31%
(2012: 35%) of the Group- and division-level
management teams. In 2013, the Board of
Directors comprised seven members, three of
them, including the chairman, were women.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
97Personnel age distribution of the permanent employees in 2011-2013, %
2013 2012 2011
-25 yrs. 3 3 3
25-29 yrs. 10 10 9
30-34 yrs. 13 12 11
35-39 yrs. 12 12 12
40-44 yrs. 13 13 14
45-49 yrs. 14 14 15
50-54 yrs. 15 16 16
55-59 yrs. 12 13 13
60+ yrs. 8 7 7
LA14 Ratio of basic salary ofLA14 Ratio of basic salary of
men to women by employeemen to women by employee
category, by significantcategory, by significant
operation countriesoperation countries
In line with its HR policy, Fortum offers a fair,
transparent and competitive compensation
portfolio to its employees at all levels.
Salaries and wages are based on local
legislation and labour market agreements and
are compliant with established practices in
each country. Salary levels are based on
personal work performance, on defined
competence requirements, and the market
situation in each country.In Finland, the pay equality for men and
women in white- and upper white-collar
positions has been monitored since 2005. In
2013, reporting was also conducted with
separation between personnel groups.
Previously, comparisons in the 'workers'
personnel group were not possible due to the
small group sizes.
More comprehensive HR information system
has made it possible to report pay equality
also in other countries. In 2013, a
comparison was made in seven countries:
Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway,
Poland and Sweden.The difference in average base salary
between male and female employees was
-8%. The total number of employees included
in the comparison was 4,695 of which 1,522
(32%) are female. When taking into
consideration the female share in the
comparison group, the difference in average
base salary was -3%. The differences varied
between countries, and years of service and
job grade levels also contributed to the
differences. The amount of women in diffent
levels also has an impact. The most
noticeable difference in favour for men was in
Estonia where the average years of service
for the male employees was nearly double
that of the female employees.
Human rightsHuman rights
HR1 Investment agreementsHR1 Investment agreements
that include human rightsthat include human rights
clausesclauses
A sustainability assessment is carried out for
all of Fortum's investment projects and takes
into consideration the environmental,
occupational health and safety, and social
impacts of the project. Projects requiring
approval by the Fortum Management Team
are additionally subject to an assessment and
approval by Group-level sustainability experts.
The sustainability assessment also includes a
human rights evaluation, especially regarding
new operating areas.
In 2013, Fortum implemented human rights
assessment as part of a systematic country
and partner risk.HR2 Suppliers and contractorsHR2 Suppliers and contractors
that have undergone humanthat have undergone human
rights screeningrights screening
The majority of Fortum's purchases are from
the Nordic countries. Fortum's purchases
from risk countries are 11% (2012: 5%),
excluding the Russia Division's suppliers. In
2013, Fortum conducted pre-selection on
261suppliers (2012: 264). Pre-selection
includes a supplier questionnaire and
verification of credit. Pre-selection is done
when the volume of the purchase exceeds
EUR 50,000 and, in the case of a Nordic
supplier, EUR 100,000. A supplier
questionnaire is used to gather general,
sustainability and human rights information
about suppliers. In 2014, the aim is to
harmonise the Russia Division's pre-selection
with the Corporate instruction.Fortum's Supplier Code of Conduct is
implemented in all of Fortum's operating
countries and it is included in all purchase
agreements exceeding EUR 50,000. With the
Supplier Code of Conduct, Fortum aims to
ensure that e.g. the supplier provides safe
working conditions for its employees,
complies with rules and regulations, and
reduces environmental impacts caused by its
operations.
In 2013, Fortum continued sustainability and
human rights related audits of suppliers of
services and goods; the audits assess how
the supplier meets the requirements of
Fortum's Supplier Code of Conduct. A target
was set to audit three main risk country
suppliers per division, excluding the Russia
Division. Fortum audited a total of 13
suppliers (2012: 10), around 70% of which
operate in risk countries. This represents 11%
(2012: 13%) of the risk country suppliers,
excluding the Russia Division's suppliers. The
audited suppliers have either a direct
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
98contractual relation with Fortum or act as a
subcontractor to Fortum's supplier. The
emphasis in the audits was on biofuel
suppliers and contractors.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Sustainable supply chain management
HR3 Human rights-relatedHR3 Human rights-related
training for employeestraining for employees
Fortum's online course for the Code of
Conduct includes training in human rights-
related issues.
Fortum's own personnel are responsible for
supplier audits . Auditors receive 1.5 days of
internal training, during which they review the
requirements of the Supplier Code of
Conduct, the sub-areas to be audited, and
the tools to be used to verify conformance
with the requirements. The training also
includes human rights-related issues. After
the training, supplier audits are started
together with an experienced auditor.
Fortum's goal is to train auditors from
different divisions and operating countries. In
2013, a total of 11 auditors from Poland and
Sweden were trained.
HR4 Incidents ofHR4 Incidents of
discrimination and actionsdiscrimination and actions
takentaken
In 2013, there were no cases of
discrimination reported (2012: 1).HR5 Supporting the right toHR5 Supporting the right to
freedom of association andfreedom of association and
collective bargaining in riskcollective bargaining in risk
areas, HR6 Measures taken toareas, HR6 Measures taken to
eliminate child labour in riskeliminate child labour in risk
areas and in operations ofareas and in operations of
significant suppliers and HR7significant suppliers and HR7
Measures to eliminate forcedMeasures to eliminate forced
labour in risk areas and inlabour in risk areas and in
operations of significantoperations of significant
supplierssuppliers
The majority of Fortum's purchases are from
the Nordic countries. Fortum's purchases
from risk countries are 11% (2012: 5%),
excluding the Russia Division's suppliers. In
risk country classification, Fortum utilises the
assessments of ILO Decent Work Agenda,
Human Development Index of the United
Nations and the Corruption Perceptions Index
by Transparency International. Violations
related to the environment and social issues
are more probable in these countries than in
no-risk countries.
Fortum respects employees' right to freedom
of association and collective bargaining as
well as the inviolability and integrity of labour
union representatives. In Fortum's operating
countries, freedom of association and
collective bargaining are guaranteed by law,
with the exception of India, which has not
ratified the International Labour
Organisation's (ILO) Convention on the right
to freedom of association and collective
bargaining. Fortum's functions in India have
in place the same practices as in other
countries of operation, and Fortum doesn't
limit or prohibit the right to freedom of
association.All forms of child labour and forced labour are
strictly prohibited and in violation of Fortum's
Code of Conduct. Of Fortum's operating
countries, India has not ratified the
International Labour Organisation's (ILO)
Convention on the minimum age and the
worst forms of child labour. Fortum's
functions in India require job applicants to be
of adult age.
All forms of forced labour are strictly
prohibited and in violation of Fortum's Code
of Conduct. There has been no risk related to
the use of forced labour identified in Fortum's
own operations.
In 2013, Fortum continued sustainability
related audits of suppliers of services and
goods; the audits assess how effectively the
supplier meets the requirements of Fortum's
Supplier Code of Conduct. This also includes
an assessment of the supplier's guidelines on
preventing the use of child and forced labour
and how the right to freedom of
association is realised by the supplier. Fortum
audited a total of 13 suppliers in 2013 (2012:
10), around 70% of which operate in risk
countries. This represents 11% (2012: 13%) of
the risk country suppliers. The figures exclude
the Russia Division's suppliers.
The audits conducted did not reveal non-
compliances related to child or forced labour,
nor were there any non-compliances related
to freedom of association and collective
bargaining. However, a recommendation was
given to listen to employees' wishes on
official unionisation through a trade union. In
current model, co-operation in the
workplace was conducted between
theemployer and employees without a trade
union.
CommunityCommunity
SO1 Managing impacts ofSO1 Managing impacts of
operations on communitiesoperations on communities
Open, honest and proactive communication
and listening to our stakeholders are of key
importance when striving for our strategic
aims. Special attention must be paid to the
local communities and people around our
production plants.
Fortum conducts environmental impact
assessments (EIA) in accordance with
legislative requirements. Stakeholderconsultation is part of the EIA process. The
environmental impact assessment
programmes and reports are publicly
available. In addition, relevant stakeholders
are heard in all licensing procedures.EU19 StakeholderEU19 Stakeholder
participation in the decision-participation in the decision-
making process related tomaking process related to
energy planning andenergy planning and
infrastructure developmentinfrastructure development
Fortum engages in an active dialogue about
key issues in the energy sector and is
involved in different associations and
organisations at the EU level and in countries
where it operates. Stakeholder participation
in the decision-making process related to
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
99energy planning and infrastructure
development is discussed in the section
regarding stakeholders .
EU21 Management approach toEU21 Management approach to
disaster/emergency planningdisaster/emergency planning
and response; contingencyand response; contingency
planning measures, disaster/planning measures, disaster/
emergency management planemergency management plan
and training programmes, andand training programmes, and
recovery/restoration plansrecovery/restoration plans
Fortum's Operational Risk Management
Instructions require our businesses to have
solid business continuity plans in place.Corporate Security is responsible for crisis
management development and Corporate
Communications is responsible for crisis
communication and for development of the
related emergency preparedness. Fortum's
crisis communication instructions have been
prepared for the Group, country, division and
unit level. In addition to the general
guidelines, Fortum uses separate crisis
communication guidelines for e.g. power and
heat outages and for crisis situations that
involve the Loviisa nuclear power plant. Crisis
management is the responsibility of the
respective division and line organisation.
Crises that affect Group operations are
managed at the Group-level. Testing and
updating plans is the responsibility of the
respective units.In 2013, extensive emergency training related
to nuclear accident was held. In addition to
Fortum's Management Team,
Communications, and Power Division
representatives, it also included other sectors
of the society such as the national rescue
services. In addition, training for crisis
situations due to electricity outages was held,
the most significant was joint rehearsal in the
Helsinki capital area in Finland.
CorruptionCorruption
SO2 Business units analysedSO2 Business units analysed
for corruption risksfor corruption risks
Compliance risks related to corruption are
managed as part of Fortum's risk
management and control procedures in all
Fortum's operating countries and
business units. The assessment of
compliance risks is periodic and
documented. Fortum has procedures to
ensure the prevention, oversight, reporting
and enforcement based on the requirements
prescribed in international legislation. A
systematic compliance risk assessment is
included in business plans, and follow-up is
part of the business performance review. Line
management regularly reports on the
compliance activities to the Fortum
Management Team and further to the Audit
and Risk Committee.
In 2013, Fortum's compliance processes
were further developed in terms of
compliance reporting and the assessment of
the country and partner risks. In addition to
the assessment of risks related to corruption,
the country and partner risk assessment also
includes the assessment of other
environmental, social and governance (ESG)
related risks.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Compliance management and Code of
Conduct, Governance 2013SO3 Anti-corruption trainingSO3 Anti-corruption training
Fortum's anti-corruption principles have been
included in the Fortum Code of Conduct
since 2007, and all Fortum employees have
participated in the Code of Conduct training.
The Fortum Code of Conduct was updated in
2012. At the end of February 2013, 99% of all
personnel had completed the training. The
implementation of the updated Code was
seen as completed in March 2013, and as of
April 2013, the Code of Conduct e-learning
has been part of the induction programme of
new Fortum employees.
During the year, the Group's Legal
department supplemented the training
organised in 2012 and gave training to
Fortum's Indian operations. In Russia all new
employees received face-to-face compliance
induction training. In October a Supplier
Forum was organised and compliance
training given for the top managers and key
experts of the Russia Division suppliers.
During the session Fortum representatives
confirmed their zero tolerance to corruption,
informed their counterparties about the key
compliance policies and explained how one
can report misconduct. In Poland, two
training sessions were organised on anti-
competitive behaviour.
At the beginning of 2014, extensive anti-
corruption training was started in Fortum's
different functions. The different risk profiles
of various activities have been taken into
account when planning the training. In
addition purchasing authorities of a certainmonetary value have been used as a specific
criterion.
SO4 Actions taken in responseSO4 Actions taken in response
to incidents of corruptionto incidents of corruption
Fortum has procedures to ensure the
prevention, oversight, reporting and
enforcement based on the requirements
prescribed in international legislation. Fortum
also has a channel that is available for all
stakeholders to report misconduct.
In January 2013, Fortum's Management Team
approved a Business Ethics Compliance
Reporting model based on the updated Code
of Conduct. According to the compliance
reporting model, line management regularly
reports on the compliance activities to the
Fortum Management Team and further to the
Audit and Risk Committee.
Fortum has internal procedures in place for
dealing with the potential cases of corruption
professionally, in accordance with applicable
laws and with respect to the rights and
personal integrity of the persons and parties
involved. Each incident will be first properly
investigated, including a hearing of the
relevant persons and parties, and then the
appropriate sanctions and corrective actions,
if deemed necessary, will be considered.
Furthermore, after each incident an
assessment is made regarding the need to
raise awareness of the Fortum Code of
Conduct. This can be done through e.g. e-
learning or face-to-face training in the
relevant business organisation to ensure that
employees are fully aware of what is
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
100considered appropriate conduct at Fortum
and what their responsibility is in case of non-
compliance. During the year one potential
case of malpractice targeting a Fortum
employee was identified. The police
investigation was still ongoing at the time ofpublishing this report. The incident resulted in
the termination of employment.
Based on publicly available sources, the
assessment of country and partner risks
revealed suspicion of corruption inconnection with a few potential partners.
Vagueness in relation to legal compliance
was also detected; thus no business relation
with these actors was initiated.
Public policyPublic policy
SO5 Public policy positionsSO5 Public policy positions
and participation in publicand participation in public
policy development andpolicy development and
lobbyinglobbying
As an energy sector expert, Fortum actively
expresses its views on energy and climate
policy issues and offers expert advice to
decision makers and non-governmental
organisations pertaining to the policy areas
mentioned. Fortum engages in an active
dialogue about key issues in the energy
sector and publishes position papers on
significant topics.
In 2013, a particular focus in public affairs
was on developing the EU emissions trading
and establishing the EU energy and climate
policy framework for 2030. Fortum published
position papers on, e.g. emission allowance
supply management and the EU consultation
on structural options to strengthen the EU
Emissions Trading Scheme. In 2013, we also
published a response on the Commission's
green paper and on the development of
capacity mechanisms. During the year,
Fortum representatives had several meetings
with different decision makers and officials at
the EU level and in its operating countries.Fortum's lobbying in Finland focused on tax
issues, such as the power plant tax, as well
as on the revision of the Energy Market
Actand its effects on electricity distribution.
In Sweden, tax issues related to hydro and
nuclear power were also high on the agenda.
In Poland, Fortum contributed to advancing
the energy legislation renewal. Heating costs
for end-customers is a significant issue in all
the Baltic countries. In Lithuania, waste
management issues are followed closely due
to the newly opened waste-to-energy power
plant in Klaipeda.
In Russia, Fortum focused on energy
efficiency and on Russian electricity and heat
market legislation. During 2013, Fortum
hosted a several groups of Russian federal
and regional authority representatives visiting
Sweden, Finland and Norway. The groups
were introduced to the urban planning, waste
handling systems, and heat and power
market models in the Nordic countries.
At the EU level, our representatives discussed
issues related to the EU's future climate and
energy policy targets, the functioning of the
Emissions Trading Scheme and the internal
energy market, as well as energy prices and
their impact on the competitiveness of EU
industry.In November 2013, Fortum updated the
company's information in the Transparency
Register maintained jointly by the European
Parliament and European Commission. The
register offers information about
organisations that aim to influence EU
decision making.
Fortum is directly and indirectly involved in
62 sector associations and organisations at
the EU level and in its countries of operation.
The most important are Eurelectric,
Energiateollisuus ry, Svensk Energi,
International Energy Agency (IEA), FORATOM
and EuroHeat & Power.
SO6 Contributions to politicalSO6 Contributions to political
parties and related institutionsparties and related institutions
Fortum does not award donations for any
kind of political activities, religious
organisations, authorities, municipalities or
local administrations.
ComplianceCompliance
Anti-competitive behaviourAnti-competitive behaviour
SO7 Legal actions for anti-SO7 Legal actions for anti-
competitive behaviour, anti-competitive behaviour, anti-
trust, and monopolytrust, and monopoly
In 2013, there were three final court
decisions in Russia holding the heat business
of Fortum Russia liable for abuse of dominant
position. The related fines imposed are
presented under indicator SO8. The three
cases derive from proceedings initiated
during 2012.In 2013, there was one case initiated and
decided by the Russian Federal Competition
Authority (FAS) holding the heat business of
Fortum Russia liable for entering into an
agreement that could limit competition. The
Russia Division had entered into a heat
distribution organisation agreement with
Tyumen Administration and the municipality's
heat networks operator. The FAS recognised
that certain terms of the agreement could
limit competition. There were no further court
proceedings and no fines were imposed on
the parties. The respective agreements
entered into were terminated by the parties
before implementation.SO8 Fines and sanctions forSO8 Fines and sanctions for
non-compliance with laws andnon-compliance with laws and
regulationsregulations
In Russia, the fines paid amounted to about
EUR 86,500. These court decisions are
described in indicator SO7.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
101Product responsibilityProduct responsibility
AccessAccess
EU28 Power outage frequencyEU28 Power outage frequency
Fortum applies international indicators (SAIFI,
SAIDI and CAIDI) to measure electricity
distribution reliability .The number of fault
based power outages per customer (SAIFI)
was 1.74 (2012: 1.40).
EU29 Average power outageEU29 Average power outage
durationduration
In 2013, the average duration of power
outages per customer (SAIDI) was 220
minutes (2012: 103). The average duration of
power outages caused by faults (CAIDI) was
115 minutes (2012: 61). In 2013, these
indicators (SAIDI and CAIDI) were affected by
the severe winter storms in the Nordic
countries in December. The set target for
SAIDI for 2013 was 110 minutes, meaning
that actual SAIDI was double compared to
the target.Product and service labellingProduct and service labelling
PR3 Product informationPR3 Product information
required by proceduresrequired by procedures
Fortum follows EU-based national legislation
on the origin of electricity. This requires the
electricity producer to report the origin of the
produced electricity, the CO 2emissions and
the amount of radioactive waste.
In 2013, Fortum Markets sold electricity to
residential and business customers in
Sweden, Finland and Norway. Electricity was
acquired from Nord Pool. Depending on the
type of electricity contract, customers
receive electricity generated from different
energy sources. Origin of the electricity is
declared in accordance with the European
Guarantee of Origin system.
Sources used to produce all the electricity
sold by Fortum Markets in 2012:
•36.4% renewable energy (33.3% was sold
as environmental electricity)
•58.4% nuclear power
•5.2% fossil fuels
Emissions generated in the production of
electricity sold by Fortum:
•Accumulation of spent nuclear fuel:
1.7mg/kWh
•Carbon dioxide (CO 2): 47 g CO 2/kWhDue to the Nordic reporting practice, figures
for 2013 will be available in summer 2014.
Read more aboutRead more about
•Kotitalouksien käyttämän sähkön
alkuperä (in Finnish)
•Ursprungsmärkning (in Swedish)
PR5 Customer satisfactionPR5 Customer satisfaction
Fortum monitors customer satisfaction
through regular EPSI customer satisfaction
surveys in Finland, Sweden and Norway. In
2013, Fortum reached its all-time best score
in the annual EPSI rating in Sweden and
Finland. In Norway, customer satisfaction was
slightly down compared to 2012. The longer
term customer satisfaction trend towards
Fortum has developed favourably in Finland,
Sweden and Norway. The trend has been
upward and faster than the average in the
sector.
In all three countries, Fortum's perceived
price-value has increased. In Finland,
customer loyalty was significantly increased.
In Sweden and Norway, Fortum's awareness
and brand preference remain the main areas
of improvement.
Customer satisfaction* in 2011-2013
Finland Sweden Norway
2013 71 65 69
2012 68 64 69
2011 70 60 63
* In Finland and Norway research method was EPSI, in Sweden Svenskt Kvalitetsindex
Fortum annually measures customer
satisfaction and the company's reputation
and factors affecting it also with the
extensive One Fortum survey targeting
different stakeholder groups: customers, the
general public, governmental bodies, capital
markets, non-governmental organisations and
Fortum's personnel. In 2013, the survey was
conducted in Finland, Sweden, Norway,
Poland, the Baltic countries and Russia.According to the survey, Fortum's reputation
is still the strongest within the capital
markets and remains weakest amongst the
general public. Compared to the 2012
results, Fortum's reputation among the
general public has developed favourably in
Finland and Sweden. Positive development
was also seen among government officials in
Finland and Sweden. Fortum's reputation
among its own employees weakened
somewhat. The One Fortum survey indicates
that customers in all divisions were moresatisfied than in 2012. Especially the Power
Solutions business unit in the Power Division
achieved very high customer satisfaction
levels.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
102Market CommunicationMarket Communication
PR7 Non-compliance withPR7 Non-compliance with
marketing communicationsmarketing communications
Fortum Markets AB in Sweden was found in
violation of the International Chamber
Commerce Code for Advertising and
Marketing Communication for an
advertisement from 2012 related to a winter
price offer for electricity. No fines were
levied.In November 2013, Fortum Markets AB was
issued an injunction by the Electricity
Markets Inspectorate to cease the use
ofcontract terms that had entered into force
on September 1, 2013. The grounds for the
injunction were that Fortum Markets AB had
not been clear in communicating the new
contract to the end customers prior to the
contract terms entering into force.
The inspectorate lifted the injunction in
December 2013, after Fortum Markets AB
took steps to correctly inform all affectedcustomers about the new contract terms as
well as set a new starting date for the new
contract terms to enter into force (February
1, 2014). No fines were levied.
ComplianceCompliance
PR9 Fines for non-compliancePR9 Fines for non-compliance
concerning the provision and use ofconcerning the provision and use of
products and servicesproducts and services
No such fines in 2013.
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
103Assurance statementAssurance statement
Independent assurance reportIndependent assurance report
on Fortum’s sustainabilityon Fortum’s sustainability
reportingreporting
To the Management of FortumTo the Management of Fortum
CorporationCorporation
We have performed alimited assurance
engagement on the Fortum Oyj (hereafter:
Fortum) sustainability reporting for the
reporting period of January 1, 2013 to
December 31, 2013. The information subject
to the assurance engagement is the Finnish
version of the sustainability reporting
published in the website
http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/ .
Management’s responsibilityManagement’s responsibility
Management is responsible for the
preparation of the sustainability reporting in
conformity with the Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting
Initiative and principles of inclusivity,
materiality and responsiveness as set out in
the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles
(AA1000APS). This responsibility includes:
designing, implementing and maintaining
internal control relevant to the preparation
and fair presentation of the sustainability
reporting that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
selecting and applying appropriate criteria
and making estimates that are reasonable in
the circumstances. The scope of the 2013
Fortum sustainability reporting and the
information included therein depends on the
Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability priority
areas as well as the reporting policies applied
which are set out in reporting principles .
Auditor’s responsibilityAuditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to draw a limited
(moderate) assurance conclusion on Fortum’s
sustainability reporting based on our
engagement. This assurance report has been
prepared in accordance with the terms of our
engagement. We do not accept, or assume
responsibility to anyone else, except to
Fortum for our work, for this report, or for the
conclusions we have reached. We conducted
our engagement in accordance withInternational Assurance Standard ISAE3000.
In addition, we have used the criteria in
AA1000Assurance Standard (2008) to
evaluate adherence AA1000APS (2008) for
type 1 assurance engagement. This requires
that we comply with ethical requirements and
plan and perform the engagement to obtain
limited assurance whether nothing has come
to our attention that causes us to believe that
Fortum’s sustainability reporting is not in all
material aspects prepared in accordance with
the reporting criteria.
We did not perform any assurance
procedures on the prospective information,
such as targets, expectations and ambitions,
disclosed in the sustainability reporting.
Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the
prospective information.
A limited assurance engagement with respect
to sustainability reporting involves performing
procedures to obtain evidence about the
information disclosed in the reporting. The
procedures performed depend on the
practitioner’s judgment, but their nature is
different from, and their extent is
substantially less than, a reasonable
assurance engagement. It does not include
detailed testing of source data or the
operating effectiveness of processes and
internal controls and consequently they do
not enable us to obtain the assurance
necessary to become aware of all significant
matters that might be identified in a
reasonable assurance engagement.
Our procedures on this engagement included:
•Assessing the suitability of the reporting
policies used by management and the
consistent application such policies,
including assessing of the suitability of
the reporting criteria, the inclusiveness of
the responses on the stakeholder
dialogue and the overall presentation in
the sustainability reporting;
•Conducting interviews with senior
management responsible for
sustainability at Fortum to gain an
understanding of Fortum’s targets for
sustainability as part of the business
strategy and operations;
•Inspecting internal and external
documentation and verifying to what
extent these documents and data support
the information included in the
sustainability reporting and evaluatingwhether the information presented in the
sustainability reporting is in line with our
overall knowledge of sustainability at
Fortum;
•Conducting interviews with employees
responsible for the collection and
reporting of sustainability information and
review of the processes and systems for
data gathering, amongst others the
aggregation of the data as included in the
sustainability reporting;
•Performing analytical review procedures
and testing data on a sample basis to
assess the accuracy of the presented
sustainability information;
•Site visits to selected sites in Finland and
Russia to review compliance to reporting
policies, to assess the reliability of the
sustainability data reporting process as
well as to test the data collected locally
for sustainability reporting purposes and;
•Assessing the Company’s stated
application level according to GRI’s
guidelines.
We believe that the evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our conclusion.
Observations &Observations &
RecommendationsRecommendations
Based on our limited assurance engagement,
we provide the following recommendations in
relation to the Accountability Principles
AA1000APS (2008) and GRI G3.1 principles.
The recommendations are to improve
management and reporting of sustainability in
future and do not affect our conclusions:
•InclusivityInclusivity – Fortum has a
comprehensive stakeholder inclusiveness
process in place and throughout this
process Fortum has identified a broad
range of relevant key stakeholder groups.
We recommend that Fortum continues an
open and regular dialogue with all
relevant stakeholders and further
strengthen its internal communication of
issues raised by stakeholders to ensure
they are appropriately considered across
Fortum’s decision-making processes.
•Materiality –Materiality – Fortum has a process in
place to define what matters are
important and material for Fortum´s
stakeholders. We recommend that
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
104Fortum further develops the process to
be more systematic to ensure that all
material issues are acknowledged.
•ResponsivenessResponsiveness – The report included a
significant amount of issues and how
Fortum has managed and responded to
those issues. In 2013 Fortum has further
developed balanced presentation in its
reporting and reports more consistently
on challenging aspects as well. We
recommend Fortum to maintain balanced
reporting on sustainability themes and
continue to transparently discuss issues
and events that have an impact on
aspects, material to stakeholders, over
the reporting period and in the future.
Our independence andOur independence and
competences in providingcompetences in providing
assurance to Fortumassurance to Fortum
We comply with independence and other
ethical requirements, which are included inthe Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants issued by the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants
IESBA (International Ethics Standards Board
for Accountants).
This engagement was conducted by a
multidisciplinary team including assurance
and sustainability expertise with professional
qualifications. Our team has many years of
experience in providing sustainability
reporting assurance.
ConclusionConclusion
On the basis of the procedures we have
performed nothing has come to our attention
that causes us to believe Fortum’s
sustainability reporting for the year from
January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, is
not prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting
Initiative and to the AA1000 AccountAbilityPrinciples. The reporting fulfills the
requirement of GRI G3.1 Application Level
B+.
Espoo 21.3.2013
Deloitte & Touche Oy
Jukka Vattulainen
Authorized Public
AccountantLasse Ingström
Authorized Public
Accountant
Annual Report 2013 GRI Section
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
105Acronyms, quantities and units usedAcronyms, quantities and units used
in the reportin the report
Quantities and units used in the report
Energy
1 terawatt hour (TWh) = 1,000 gigawatt hours (GWh) = 1,000,000 megawatt hours (MWh) = 1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 terawatt hour (TWh) = 3,600 terajoules (TJ)
1 terajoule (TJ) = 278 megawatt hours (MWh)
Capacity
1 megawatt (MW) = 1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts (W)
Volume
1 cubic metre (m3) = 1,000 litres (l)
1 normal cubic metre (Nm3) = 1 m3of gas in normal atmospheric pressure (1.0 bar) and temperature 0oC.
Mass
1 tonne (t) = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 megatonne (Mt) = 1,000,000 tonnes (t) = 1,000,000,000 kilograms (kg)
Acronyms used in the report
Acronym Term Definition
GRI Global Reporting Initiative International organisation promoting sustainability reporting
EHS Environment, Health and Safety -
CHP Combined Heat and Power -
LWIF Lost Workday Injury Frequency Frequency of injuries that lead to absence from work for one or more days
TRIF Total Recordable Injury Frequency Frequency of all injuries that require medical treatment
SAIDI System Average Interruption Duration IndexCumulative duration of power outages per customer in a specified time
interval
CAIDI Customer Average Interruption Duration Index Average duration of power outages in a specified time interval
SAIFI Customer Average Interruption Frequency Index Number of power outages per customer in a specified time interval
CER Certified Emission Reduction Emission reduction unit in projects under Clean Development Mechanisms
ERU Emission Reduction Unit Emission reduction unit in Joint Implementation projects
IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature -
Annual Report 2013 Contact information
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
106Contact informationContact information
Investor relationsInvestor relations
Sophie JollySophie Jolly
Vice President, Investor Relations
tel. +358 10 45 32552,
sophie.jolly@fortum.com
Rauno TiihonenRauno Tiihonen
Manager, Investor Relations
tel. +358 10 45 36150,
rauno.tiihonen@fortum.comFinancial communicationsFinancial communications
Pauliina VuosioPauliina Vuosio
Vice President, Financial Communications
tel. +358 50 453 2383,
pauliina.vuosio@fortum.com
Karoliina LehmusvirtaKaroliina Lehmusvirta
Manager, Financial Communications
tel. +358 40 581 3710,
karoliina.lehmusvirta@fortum.comSustainabilitySustainability
Ulla RehellUlla Rehell
Vice President, Sustainability
tel. +358 10 45 29251,
ulla.rehell@fortum.com
Kari KankaanpääKari Kankaanpää
Sustainability Manager
tel. +358 10 45 32330,
kari.t.kankaanpaa@fortum.com
Annual Report 2013 Contact information
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
107Legal noticeLegal notice
Terms of UseTerms of Use
The use of the website of Fortum Corporation
and its subsidiaries (together “FORTUM”)
requires following the terms of use set forth
below. You are not allowed to use
FORTUM´S website if you do not agree to
follow these terms of use.
Intellectual Property RightsIntellectual Property Rights
The entire content of FORTUM'S website,
such as text, graphics, names, images,
figures, drawings, logos icons, recordings and
software, are property of FORTUM and its
associated companies, licensors and
partners. Any rights not expressly granted
herein are reserved. Copying, transferring,
modifying, saving, publishing and distributing
the content of FORTUM'S website or part
thereof is prohibited without FORTUM'S prior
written consent. The use of FORTUM'S
website for personal, non-commercial
purposes is permitted. Documents classified
as public, such as press releases, may be
used for public communications if the source
of the information is displayed.
DisclaimerDisclaimer
FORTUM'S website and its content are
provided on “as is” basis. FORTUM does not
give any express or implied representation or
warranty with respect to the information
included in FORTUM'S website, including any
representation or warranty as to the
accuracy, completeness or reliability of the
information. Nothing included in FORTUM'S
website can be held as a binding offer or
commitment of FORTUM. FORTUM reserves
the right to modify these terms of use and
FORTUM'S website and its content or part
thereof at any time without prior notice.
FORTUM does not make any representationor warranty as to the accessibility of
FORTUM'S website.
FORTUM shall in no event be liable for any
loss or damage of whatsoever nature
including, without limitation, indirect and
consequential damage, such as loss of
revenue, loss of income, loss of profit,
business interruption or loss of data, arising
from the use of this website or its content or
the interruption or loss of data, arising from
the use of this website or its content or the
interruption or inavailability of the same.
Neither shall FORTUM be liable for any loss
or damage caused due to errors,
interruptions or inavailability of data systems
or data communications or damage caused
due to malware of viruses. If the applicable
jurisdiction does not allow the above
limitation of liability, the liability of FORTUM
shall be limited to the greatest extent
permitted by the applicable law.
The “Annual review” and “Sustainability”
sections have not been audited. The
Sustainability section has been provided
limited independent assurance by a third
party. References to the future presented on
these pages reflect Fortum's assessments at
the beginning of February 2014.
Materialisation of such assessments is
dependent on various factors, some of which
Fortum may not have an impact on, and thus
the final outcome may deviate from the
assessments presented. Fortum discloses its
outlook statement and the risks related to
the realisation of the outlook statement
separately in accordance with the applicable
laws and regulations under the specific
sections in the Operating and Financial
Review. Fortum Corporation's Financial
Statements andOperating and Financial
Review for 2013 and the related Auditor's
Report are available on this website.Information Submitted by theInformation Submitted by the
UserUser
The user of FORTUM'S website is solely
responsible for the accuracy and delivery of
information and materials submitted to
FORTUM'S website and that the user is
entitled to provide FORTUM with such
information or materials. The user of
FORTUM'S website shall take all reasonable
measures to make sure that information and
materials submitted to FORTUM do not
contain malware or viruses. FORTUM shall be
granted with a royalty-free and unlimited right
to modify, copy, publish and distribute all
information and materials submitted to
FORTUM'S website, either as such or as part
of other materials or documentation, for any
and all commercial and non-commercial use
to the extent permitted by the laws of
Finland.
Personal InformationPersonal Information
The privacy of customers' personal
information is important to FORTUM.
FORTUM complies with the applicable
legislation on personal data protection. You
may request to have your personal
information collected by FORTUM removed or
corrected at any time.
Applicable LawApplicable Law
These terms of use shall be governed by the
laws of Finland.
Enquiries and RemarksEnquiries and Remarks
Please address all enquiries and remarks
regarding these terms of use to FORTUM'S
Legal Affairs, P.O. BOX 1, 00048 FORTUM,
FINLAND, Tel. +358 10 4511
Annual Report 2013 Legal notice
This is an automatically generated PDF document of Fortum's online Annual Report and may not be as comprehensive as the complete Annual Report, which is available at http://annualreport2013.fortum.com/
108