Sustainability
 2017
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility2Highlights 2017
205  MW
of new solar power in India and 
Russia and 32 MW of new wind 
power in Norway in operation
Our circular economy  
business expanded and  we gained 1.2 million new customers, increasing our  
Nordic customer base to 
2.5 
millionA fish trap and  
transport facility  
for the Montta 
hydropower plant 
commissioned in  
the River Oulujoki,  
Finland
Energise Your Day 
wellbeing programme 
expanded to nine 
operating countries100 %
of employees completed our Safety  
& Security eLearning61% 
of our electricity 
production was CO 2-freeWe reached our energy 
efficiency improvement 
target (1,400 GWh/a  
by 2020) in advance
Our support to society  increased to 
EUR 4.9 
million, including a donation  of EUR 1 million to Finnish 
universitiesEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility3Sustainability 2017
Sustainability approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals   . . . . . . . . . . 5
Key sustainability topics.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Governance and management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Policies and commitments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Business ethics and compliance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Stakeholders   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Sustainability indexes   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Economic responsibility  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19
Economic impacts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Customer satisfaction and reputation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Supply chain management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24Environmental responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Sustainable energy production   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Climate change mitigation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Improving energy efficiency   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Circular economy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Biodiversity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Emissions into air   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Water use   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Environmental non-compliances and incidents  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46Social responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Security of supply   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Employees   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Safety and security   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Corporate citizenship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Human rights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Product responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Reporting principles and assurance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Reporting principles   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Reported GRI disclosures   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Assurance report   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Appendices
1. Sustainability management by topic
2. Fortumʼs main internal policies and instructions
Contact information
Fortumʼs 2017 reporting entity
Financials
Financials
 2017
Governance
Governance
 2017
Tax Footprint
Tax Footprint
 2017
CEO Letter
CEO letter
 2017
Remuneration
 Remuneration
 2017
 Sustainability
 2017
Sustainability Online Annual Review
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility4
Sustainability 
approachSustainability approach
The entire energy sector is undergoing a transformation  . Four 
megatrends are shaping this change: Climate change and resource 
efficiency, urbanisation, digitalisation and new technologies, and 
active customers  . These megatrends have a major impact on how 
energy is produced, sold and used  . 
Our role is to accelerate this change by reshaping the energy 
system, improving resource efficiency and providing smart 
solutions  . This way we deliver excellent shareholder value  . Our 
values – curiosity, responsibility, integrity and respect – form the foundation for all our activities  . 
Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum’s strategy  . 
Business and responsibility are tightly linked, underlining the role of sustainable solutions as a competitive advantage  . In our 
operations, we give balanced consideration to economic, social and 
environmental responsibility  .
FORTUM ʼS VISION, MISSION AND STRATEGY 
FORTUM ʼS VALUESEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility5
Sustainability 
approachOur contribution  
to the SDGsPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and compliance
Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  adopted by the 
United Nations in 2015 define international sustainable 
development focus areas and goals to 2030  . We want to do our part 
to promote the achievement of the goals in our value chain by 
increasing our positive impacts and decreasing our negative 
impacts  . The Sustainable Development Goals offer business 
opportunities as well as the opportunity to create value for our stakeholder groups  . 
As a producer of energy and circular economy solutions, Fortum 
impacts most of the Sustainable Development Goals and their 
specific targets  . In line with our strategy, we are driving the change 
towards a cleaner world  . Those SDGs for which we have the biggest 
contribution to their achievement as well as our most important ways to contribute and our related Group sustainability targets are presented in the graphic  .Fortum takes care of the working conditions and safety of its own 
and its contractors’ employees, and it requires service and goods suppliers to respect labour rights. Fortum generates economic added value to its investors, suppliers and the public sector.
Group targets in safety and sickness-related absences
Fortum advances innovations related to energy, the circular economy, 
digitalisation and electricity storage solutions, and invests in startups. Fortum develops district heating and cooling solutions.Fortum oﬀers waste and circular economy solutions which promote waste recycling and reuse. Fortum impacts urban air quality by developing charging solutions for electric vehicles and by reducing power plant emissions into the air. Fortum improves the energy and resource eﬃciency of its energy production.
Fortum oﬀers and develops new energy services for customers, improves the energy eﬃciency of its production, and invests in renewable energy, e.g. solar power in India.
Group target in security of supply
Fortum invests in CO
2-free energy production, improves 
the energy eﬃciency of its production, and develops new climate-benign energy innovations.
Group target in speciﬁc CO
2 emissions and in energy eﬃciency
All energy production has environmental impacts. Fortum aims to reduce the environmental impacts of its energy production on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity.
Group target in major EHS incidentsDrive productivity and industry transformation
Create solutions for sustainable cities
Grow in solar 
and wind
Build new 
energy venturesFortum’s strategy SDGOur contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)
Fortum supports the Sustainable Development Goals.Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility6
Sustainability 
approachOur contribution  
to the SDGsPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and compliance
Examples of measures we implemented in 2017 that promote the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Measure
7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern 
energy for all
13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts• We invested in renewable energy production: solar, wind and hydropower
• We commissioned two new solar power plants (total 170 MW) in India, and we acquired three  
solar power plants (total 35 MW) in Russia
• We invested in wind power in Sweden, Norway and Russia
• We invested in energy efficiency, e.g. at the Loviisa nuclear power plant in Finland and at  hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland
• We made a Societyʼs Commitment to Sustainable Development for 
carbon-free district heating  
in Espoo by 2030 and implemented measures reducing emissions
• We expanded our HorsePower manure bedding service from Finland to Sweden
• Our energy efficiency investments totalled 131 GWh
• We strive to realise a carbon capture and storage project in Oslo in co-operation with the City of Oslo.  If the project is realised, waste incineration in Oslo will become virtually CO
2-free.
• We started working with Futurice to develop a solution to provide easier access to solar power  
in developing countries
8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth,  employment, and decent work for all• We conducted 11 supplier audits covering work conditions and other issues
• Our entire personnel completed the new online training for occupational safety
• We renewed the Group’s EHS minimum requirements
9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialisation 
and foster innovation• We started offering private customers a virtual power plant service that balances electricity demand
• We commissioned 
the Nordic countries’ biggest electricity storage in Järvenpää, Finland
• We commissioned new district cooling in Tartu, Estonia
• We engaged in collaboration with universities in our operating countries, and Fortum Foundation awarded  nearly EUR 700,000 in grants
• We used EUR 53 million for research and development
11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns• We participate in the City of Oslo’s waste incineration in Norway through 
the restructuring of Hafslund
• We started the development of charging systems for EVs in India and Great Britain, and expanded  
our charging network in the Nordic countries
• With our company cars, we are shifting to EVs and chargeable hybrids in Finland
• We supplied emissions-reducing combustion solutions to customers in Poland and Sweden
14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 
resources for sustainable development 
15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification,  
and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss• We implemented hydropower environmental projects valued at EUR 3.7 million
•  A trap and transport facility was commissioned at the Montta hydropower plant in Oulujoki, Finland
• We tore down the Acksjön dam in Sweden, removing a barrier to migrating fish and improving  a valuable river habitat
• We made preparations for the Chain of Custody certification of wood-based biomass purchases  
that we aim to acquire in 2018Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility7
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexes StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGsKey sustainability  
topics
Sustainability 
approach
Key sustainability topics 
Long-term value 
and growth
Sustainable supply 
chainEnergy and 
resource eﬃciency
Economic beneﬁts to 
our stakeholdersClimate benign 
energy production 
and systemsReduction of 
environmental impactsSecure energy supply 
for customers
Solutions for 
sustainable cities Operational and 
occupational safety Business ethics 
and complianceCustomer
satisfaction
Personnel 
well-beingEconomic responsibilitySocial responsibility
Environmental responsibility
We have defined our most important sustainability focus areas in 
the areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility  . 
Our focus areas are based on Fortum’s and our stakeholders’ 
views of the significance of the impacts on the company and its ability to create value for its stakeholders and on the environment  . 
Our understanding of stakeholder views is based on the results of 
the extensive stakeholder survey conducted annually as well as on 
information gained through other stakeholder collaboration .  
In 2015, a total of 2,133 stakeholder representatives, more 
than 60% of them representing personnel, participated in our 
latest separate sustainability survey  . In that sustainability survey, 
decision makers, organisations, employees and the general public put special emphasis on the significance of security of supply of 
heat and electricity, management of sustainability-related risks, 
and sustainable ways of operating  . Our personnel emphasised 
the safety of operations  . The general public considered the use of 
renewable energy sources as important  . Our goal is to conduct our 
separate sustainability survey again during 2018  . 
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum employee 
Sustainability targets affect every Fortum employee and safety-related targets are part of Fortum’s short-term incentive scheme  . 
In addition to the Group-level targets, divisions have their own targets  . Fortum’s Board of Directors annually decides on the sustainability targets to be included in the incentive scheme  . The 
injury frequency for Fortum employees and for contractors was 
included in the incentive scheme in 2017  . 
The 2018 incentive scheme remains unchanged in terms 
of safety targets (the injury frequency rate for personnel and contractors), but the Board can, if it wants, take into consideration 
in the result also other safety-related incidents and especially the 
number of severe occupational accidents  . The target for severe 
occupational accidents is zero  . The weight of the sustainability 
target in the incentive scheme is 10% (2017: 10%)  . 
 Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility8
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexes StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGsKey sustainability  
topics
Sustainability 
approach
Group sustainability targets and performance in 2017
Target for the 
year 2017Status at the 
end of 2017Status at the 
end of 2016
Reputation index, based on One Fortum Survey 70.7 * 72.3 72.5
Customer satisfaction index (CSI), based on One Fortum Survey CSI divisional 
scores at 
level “good” 
(70–74) 64–76 67–79
Environmental responsibility    
Specific CO 2 emissions
Total energy production, gCO 2/kWh, 5-year average <200 188 188
Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency improvement by year 2020, base line year 2012, GWh/ a >1,400 **  1,502 1,372
Major EHS incidents 1)≤21 20 22
Social responsibility   
Security of supply
CHP plant energy availability, % >95.0 96.1 97.4
Occupational safety
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 2), own personnel ≤2.5 1.8 1.9
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), own personnel ≤1.0 1.2 1.0
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 3), contractors ≤3.5 4.2 3.0
Quality of investigation process of injuries, serious EHS incidents, and near misses Level 1.0 Level 0.75 -
Number of severe occupational accidents 4)≤5 1 5
Employee wellbeing
Sickness related absences, % ≤2.3 2.2 *** 2.3 ***
1) Fires, leaks, explosions, INES events exceeding level 0, dam safety incidents, environmental non-compliances. INES = International Nuclear Event Scale
2) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
3) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
4) Accidents leading to a fatality or permanent disability and accidents that could have caused serious consequences* The target is not comparable with the status of year 2016, because the target group is different. ** By the year 2020
*** Excluding DUON and HafslundSuccesses and development needs:
• Our reputation is strong particularly among public 
administration, opinion makers, non-governmental 
organisations and Fortum’s personnel  . 
• The target for customer satisfaction was achieved in all business 
areas, but not in retail electricity sales  . 
• We achieved our target in specific carbon dioxide emissions  .  
In 2017 , specific emissions from total energy production were 
184 gCO 2/kWh .
• By the end of 2017 , we exceeded the Group energy efficiency target (>1,400 GWh/a) at the annual level by about 100 GWh  . 
• We strive to be a safe workplace for own and our contractors’ 
employees  . In 2017 , one severe occupational accident occurred  . 
There were no accidents leading to a fatality  . 
• Mergers and acquisitions implemented as part of our growth strategy weakened Fortum’s occupational safety level that had 
been at a rather good level before  . During 2018 we will focus on 
establishing Fortum’s safety practices in our new operations  . 
• In 2017 , the focus of our auditing was on solar module suppliers in particular  . We conducted 11 supplier audits in six countries  .Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility9
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexes StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGsKey sustainability  
topics
Sustainability 
approach
Our targets for 2018 
Our sustainability targets are based on continuous operational 
improvement  . We achieved our Group target for energy efficiency in 
2017 , and for that reason we raised the target by 500 GWh  . Our new 
target for energy efficiency improvement is >1,900 GWh/a by 2020 compared to 2012  . 
We also renewed our occupational safety targets  . At the 
Group level we are focusing on monitoring the number of severe 
occupational accidents and the combined own personnel and contractor Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) per million 
working hours  . The indicator is the same as in the short-term 
incentive scheme  . The target level for the combined LWIF is on 
≤2 .1 . The target is very challenging because the realised combined 
LWIF was 2  .4 . In terms of severe occupational accidents, we had a 
target of 0 accidents by 2020  . However, in the 2018 target setting, 
Fortum’s Board tightened the target to zero already by 2018  . 
As a new indicator in 2018 we will monitor the GAP index 
measuring how well the Group’s EHS minimum requirements are realised at the power plant level  . The target is that the minimum 
requirements will be realised in practice and that there will be no serious deviations detected in terms of their compliance (target 
level 3  .0) .Group-level sustainability targets in 2018
 Target 2018 Target 2020
Reputation index, based on One Fortum Survey 73.0 Not defined
Customer satisfaction index, based on multiple measurements as defined in business plans Multiple targets Not defined
Environmental responsibility   
Specific CO 2 emissions
Total energy production, gCO 2/kWh, 5-year average <200 <200
Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency improvement by year 2020, base line year 2012, GWh/ a Target only for year 
2020 >1,900
Major EHS incidents 1)≤20 ≤15
Social responsibility   
Security of supply
CHP plant energy availability, % >95.0 >95.0 
Occupational safetyLost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 
2), own personnel and contractors ≤2.1 Not defined
Quality of investigation process of injuries, serious EHS incidents, and near misses Level 3.0 Level 4.0
GAP index, quality of implementation of EHS minimum requirements Level 3.0 Level 4.0
Number of severe occupational accidents 3)0 0
Employee wellbeing
Sickness related absences, % ≤2.2 ≤2.2
1) Fires, leaks, explosions, INES events exceeding level 0, dam safety incidents, environmental non-compliances. INES = International Nuclear Event Scale
2) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
3) Accidents leading to a fatality or permanent disability and accidents that could have caused serious consequencesEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility10
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGsGovernance and  
management
Sustainability 
approach
Governance and management
Sustainability management at Fortum is strategy-driven and is based on the company’s values, the  
Code of Conduct , the Supplier Code of Conduct , the Sustainability Policy and other policies and 
their specifying instructions defined at the Group level  . We comply with laws and regulations  . All of our 
operations are guided by good governance, effective risk management, adequate controls and the 
internal audit principles supporting them  .
Fortum’s goal is a high level of environmental and safety management in all business activities  . 
Calculated in terms of sales, 99  .8% of Fortum’s electricity and heat production operations at the end of 2017 
were ISO 14001 certified and 98  .4% were OHSAS 18001 certified  . The level of certification slightly dropped 
due to acquisitions and investments  . The divisions and sites develop their operations with internal and 
external audits required by environmental, occupational safety and quality management systems  .
Responsibilities 
Sustainability is an integral part of Fortum’s strategy, so the highest decision-making authority in these 
issues is with the Board of Directors, which has joint responsibility in matters related to sustainability  . 
For this reason, Fortum has not designated a Sustainability Committee for decision-making on 
economic, environmental and social issues  . The Audit and Risk Committee, members of the Fortum 
Executive Management, and other senior executives support the Board of Directors in the decision-making in these matters, when necessary  . 
The Fortum Executive Management decides on the sustainability approach and Group-level 
sustainability targets that guide annual planning  . The targets are ultimately approved by Fortum’s Board 
of Directors  . Fortum Executive Management monitors the achievement of the targets in its monthly 
meetings and in quarterly performance reviews  . The achievement of the targets is regularly reported also 
to Fortum’s Board of Directors  . 
Fortum’s line management is responsible for the implementation of the Group’s policies and 
instructions and for day-to-day sustainability management  . Realisation of the safety targets is a part 
of Fortum’s short-term incentive system  . Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability unit is responsible for 
coordination and development of sustainability at the Group level and for maintaining an adequate 
situation awareness and oversight regarding sustainability  .
Sustainability management by topic
Sustainability management in the areas of economic responsibility, environmental responsibility and social responsibility is described in more detail in 
Appendix 1  . Additionally, more detailed information 
about the management of different aspects and impacts is presented by topic in this Sustainability Report  .
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2017
REMUNERATION STATEMENT 2017Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility11
Sustainability 
approachGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGsPolicies and  
commitments
Sustainability 
approach
Policies and commitments
Fortum is a participant of the UN Global Compact initiative and the UN Caring for Climate initiative  . 
We support and respect the international initiatives and commitments, and national and international 
guidelines listed in the table, and they guide our operations in the areas of economic, environmental and 
social responsibility  . 
Fortum’s EHS minimum requirements were updated in 2017  . We focused particularly on updating 
contractor management practices to improve contractor safety  . We believe that our requirements are now 
clearer and more comprehendible to our collaboration partners and that will help us to achieve better 
contractor safety results, and it offers a good foundation for continuous improvement  . 
We report on the training related to the updated instructions in the sections Business ethics and  
compliance , Sustainable supply chain and Occupational and operational safety  .
The company’s Group-level policies are approved by Fortum’s Board of Directors  . The Group-level 
instructions are approved by either the President and CEO or Fortum Executive Management  . 
Fortum’s main internal policies and instructions guiding sustainability are listed in the table in 
Appendix 2  .International and national initiatives, commitments and guidelines
Economic 
responsibilityEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial responsibility
Social and 
personnel 
issues Human rightsAnti-
corruption and 
bribery
UN Universal 
Declaration of Human 
Rights   x  x  
International Covenant 
on Economic, Social 
and Cultural Rights x  x x  
International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights   x x  
UN Convention on  
the Rights of the Child   x x 
Core conventions of  
the International 
Labour Organisation   x x  
UN Global Compact 
initiative x x x x x 
UN Caring for Climate initiative  x    
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights   x x  
OECD Guidelines for Multinational 
Enterprises x x x x x
International Chamber 
of Commerce’s  anti-bribery and anti-
corruption guidelines x    x
Bettercoal initiative’s Code on responsible 
coal mining x x x x  x
Responsible advertising 
and marketing 
guidelines    x  
Environmental marketing guidelines    x  Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility12
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersOur contribution  
to the SDGsBusiness ethics  
and compliance
Sustainability 
approach
We believe there is a clear connection between high standards of 
ethical business practices and excellent financial results  . As an 
industry leader, we obey the law, we embrace the spirit of integrity, and we uphold ethical business conduct wherever we operate  .
Code of Conduct sets the basic requirements
The Fortum Code of Conduct and Fortum Supplier Code of Conduct 
define how we treat others, engage in business, safeguard our 
corporate assets, and how we expect our suppliers and business partners to operate  .
Fortum’s Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s 
mission and values and has approved the Fortum Code of Conduct  . 
The online training on the Code of Conduct is part of the induction 
programme for new employees  . The Supplier Code of Conduct is 
based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and has been approved by the Head of Procurement in collaboration with the 
purchasing steering group  .
About 95% of Fortum’s total purchasing volume, excluding 
purchases by DUON, is purchased from suppliers with a purchasing volume of EUR 50,000 or more  . Geographically they target mainly 
suppliers in Russia, Finland, Sweden and Poland  . The Supplier 
Code of Conduct is part of purchase agreements with a contract value of EUR 50,000 or more  . 
In line with the Code of Conduct, Fortum has zero tolerance 
for corruption and fraud and does not award donations to political 
parties or political activities, religious organisations, authorities, 
municipalities or local administrations  .
Compliance risks 
The compliance risks related to our business operations include the 
potential risk of bribery or corruption, fraud and embezzlement, 
non-compliance with legislation or company rules, conflicts of interest, improper use of company assets, and working under the 
influence of alcohol or drugs  . Compliance risk management is 
an integrated part of business operations, and key compliance Business ethics and compliance
risks, including action plans, are identified, assessed and reported 
annually  . This applies also to the management of risks related to 
sustainabilit y  . 
Training 
Fortum has a Total Compliance programme covering key areas of 
regulatory compliance and business ethics  . It is managed with a 
risk-based prioritisation .
Training is a fundamental part of the Total Compliance 
programme  . In 2017 , training was provided to employees working 
in the Recycling and Waste Solutions business area in Finland, 
Sweden and Denmark  . Training for employees of Fortum Oslo 
Varme and Hafslund Markets also was started  . Fortum’s Code of 
Conduct booklet was updated due to the brand renewal, and all 
Fortum employees received the booklet electronically  .
Training on the Market Abuse Regulation and insider 
regulations was provided for those management teams that had not received the training earlier  . Targeted training on internal controls 
and focusing on the process-level improvement of controls was also arranged for selected management teams and experts  . Training on 
competition law issues was provided for the functions responsible 
for sales and for the selected individuals joining Fortum through 
acquisitions  . Additionally, Anti-Money Laundering training for key 
stakeholders was arranged  .
The supplier qualification process was renewed in 2016 and the 
majority of the personnel received training back then  . Training 
events held in 2017 targeted Fortum’s personnel in the Baltic countries and Poland, as well as Recycling and Waste Solutions 
personnel in Finland, Sweden and Denmark  . 
Reporting misconduct 
In addition to internal reporting channels, Fortum has an external 
“Raise a concern”  channel  . The same mechanism is used for 
reporting any suspected misconduct relating to the environment, labour practices or human rights violations, and it is available to all stakeholders  . In Russia, Fortum has a separate compliance 
organisation in place and employees there are encouraged to use the channels provided by the compliance organisation  . They may, 
however, also use the “Raise a concern” channel should they so wish  . 
Suspected misconduct and measures related to ethical business 
practices and compliance with regulations are regularly reported to the Audit and Risk Committee  .
Suspected cases of misconduct 
A total of 178 reports of suspected misconduct were made in 2017  . By year-end, 167 cases had been closed  . About one third of 
the investigated cases were related to non-compliance with laws and regulations or with company rules, which constituted the majority of the cases  . In these cases, corrective action was taken by 
reviewing and developing existing processes and instructions and by providing training for employees  .
Fortum has zero tolerance towards alcohol and drug use  . About 
40% of the cases were related to alcohol abuse by either Fortum’s or contractors’ employees during working hours  . As a result of the 
investigations, five employment contracts were terminated either by immediate dismissal or by mutual agreement, and 12 written 
warnings were given  . There were 14 cases of misconduct reported 
to the police  . There was no cause for action to be taken in 18 of the 
cases investigated  .
No cases of suspected corruption or bribery related to Fortum’s 
operations were reported in 2017  . 
Fortum also requires its goods and service suppliers as well as 
its business partners to comply with a zero tolerance policy towards 
corruption and bribery  . As part of supply chain management, we 
requested a report from the goods and service suppliers we had knowledge of possible cases of misconduct  . We requested the 
reports to include information about e  .g . the corrective measures 
taken related to the supplier’s own operations  . The reports Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility13
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersOur contribution  
to the SDGsBusiness ethics  
and compliance
Sustainability 
approach
were considered sufficient and didn’t lead to the termination of 
a contract  . 
We deal with potential cases of corruption in a professional 
manner, in accordance with the defined compliance investigation process, in line with applicable laws and with respect to the rights 
and personal integrity of all parties involved  .
Restricting competition
There were three ongoing investigation cases in Russia in 2017  .  
Two of these cases had been initiated in the previous year  . During 
the year Fortum was not subject to any significant monetary fines 
for competition law violations  .
Other significant fines 
In Norway, Fortum Oslo Varme was ordered to pay a fine of 
NOK 150,000 (EUR 16,043) for a district heating pipe leakage that 
caused burns to a third party  . In Denmark, Fortum Waste Solutions 
OW A/S was ordered to pay a fine of DKK 60,000 (EUR 8,066) for 
a work-related accident that took place in 2016  . The handling of 
another work-related accident originating in 2015 in Fortum Waste 
Solutions OW A/S was on-going  .
FORTUM CODE OF CONDUCT
FORTUM SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCES
LABOUR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCES
INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION
FINES RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL NON-COMPLIANCES
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility14
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topicsBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGs Stakeholders
Sustainability 
approach
Our way of operating responsibly includes continuously identifying 
the views of our stakeholders and finding a balance between the 
different expectations our stakeholders have  . Dialogue, feedback 
and good collaboration are the key ways to promote a mutual 
understanding with our stakeholders  .
Stakeholder collaboration 
Collaboration with different stakeholder groups helps Fortum to assess and meet the expectations that stakeholder groups have 
towards the company  . We engage in an active dialogue with the 
different stakeholders associated with our operations  . We conduct 
annual stakeholder surveys  . We monitor and assess the public 
dialogue in the countries where we operate, and we have increased 
the dialogue with our stakeholders also through social media 
channels  . Feedback from customers drives the development of our 
products and services  . Additionally, our activities in national and 
international organisations help to deepen our understanding of global sustainability issues and their connections to our business  .
Management of stakeholder collaboration at Fortum is 
assigned particularly to communications, public affairs, group 
sustainability, the functions responsible for electricity and heat sales and energy production, as well as many of our experts  . 
Responsibilities for managing stakeholder collaboration are primarily determined by stakeholder group or interaction 
theme  . Key interaction areas, e  .g . public affairs, and corporate 
communications, have annual plans that guide the activities  .
Fortum has an informal Advisory Council consisting of 
representatives of Fortum’s key stakeholder groups as invited by 
the Board of Directors  . The Advisory Council aims to increase the 
dialogue and the exchange of views between the company and its stakeholders  .Stakeholders
Information through surveys
In collaboration with third parties, we annually conduct surveys 
regarding stakeholder collaboration  . 
The aim of these surveys is to help Fortum assess and 
respond to the important stakeholder groups’ expectations of the company  . The surveys also measure the success of our stakeholder 
collaboration .  Additionally, the surveys provide information about 
emerging sustainability trends and risks we should acknowledge  . 
We use the survey results in business planning and development 
and in identifying material aspects in corporate responsibility  .
The One Fortum survey and its results in terms of customer 
satisfaction and reputation are presented in the section 
Customer satisfaction and reputation  . As part of the One Fortum 
survey, we regularly survey what our stakeholders consider to be the 
most important areas of sustainability  .
Our stakeholder surveys
Survey Target groups Target countries Frequency
One Fortum Survey Customers
General public
Public administrationCapital markets
NGOs
Opinion leadersPersonnel
MediaFinland, Sweden, Norway, Poland,Baltic countries, Russia, IndiaCustomer satisfaction is measuredsemi-annually
Reputation is measured annually
Media tracking Media All operating countries Daily
Brand tracking General public and customers Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland,Baltic countriesContinuously in Finland and Sweden, annually in other countries
Pulse survey Own personnel All operating countries Semi-annuallyEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility15
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topicsBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGs Stakeholders
Sustainability 
approach
Most important expectations stakeholders have towards Fortum, and Fortum’s actions in response to them
Stakeholder expectations Fortumʼs actions
Lenders and 
shareholders• Long-term value creation
• High-yield share
• Responsible operations• In 2017 we continued our strategy implementation: We published an offer for Uniper shares
• We are committed to achieving our financial targets
• Our goal is to pay a stable, sustainable and over time increasing dividend of 50–80% of earnings per share excluding one-off items
• Economic, social and environmental responsibility play a key role in our business
Customers • Competitively priced products
• Useful additional services and advice
• Reliability
• Ensuring data protection• With efficient operations and high-quality products, we ensure that we are competitive and our customers feel they get their money’s worth
• In collaboration with customers, we develop new products and services, especially new digital solutions for customers 
• We deliver what we promise to our customers, and we offer constantly better customer service through different channels
• We interviewed over 4,600 customers and 3,100 other stakeholders for our One Fortum survey in 2017
• In 2017 we launched a data protection programme in order to develop personal information processing
Personnel • Equal treatment and open interaction 
• Job security and incentivising compensation 
• Opportunities for professional development 
• Occupational safety and work wellbeing• We operate in line with Fortum’s Code of Conduct, and our Values updated in 2017
• In 2017 we launched our Open Leadership concept and Leadership Principles based on positive psychology
• Our employee compensation is based on standardised principles
• We conducted training for employees and managers to support changes in the Ways of Working
• We improve safety and wellbeing: In 2017 Safety and Security eLearning and expansion of Energise Your Day Programme to new  
Fortum countries
Service and 
goods suppliers• Good financial position and the ability to take care of the agreed obligations
• Fair and equal treatment of suppliers
• Long-term business relations and development of business and products/services
• Responsible operations• We comply with the Fortum Code of Conduct, agreements and legislation 
• We conduct a supplier qualification process
• In 2017 we updated the 
Contractor management procedures in order to address challenges with contractor safety
Authorities and 
decision makers• Compliance
• Integration of sustainability with strategy and business, risk management 
• Transparency and reliable reporting
• Maintaining dialogue
• Being a constructive partner in policy developments• We comply with laws, regulations and permits
• We develop our business and the management of environmental and safety risks
• We communicate openly and we actively engage in a dialogue with authorities and decision makers about energy issues: e.g. in 2017 we 
called for 
enforced Nordic regional cooperation in energy and climate policies
• We provide authorities with constructive suggestions on legislative proposals: In 2017 we contributed e.g. to the preparation of the EU Governance Regulation by providing a proposal to assess and mitigate the impact of 
overlapping policies on the EU ETS
Media • Relevant, reliable and transparent communication • In line with our Disclosure Policy, we communicate proactively and openly. In 2017 we had a special focus on communicating Fortum’s 
strategy and on international media work.
• We communicate about issues of topical and media interest through multiple channels and we are easily accessible
• We meet regularly with media representatives
• We continuously improve our crisis communication preparedness
Energy sector 
organisations • Advocating on behalf of shared interests
• Dialogue and expertise• We advocate our shareholders’ and the sector’s shared interests and actively participate in organisational activities in our sector
• We publish position papers and views on energy-sector and policy development, and we actively communicate them in multiple media: In 2017, we published three 
Fortum Energy Reviews. 
• In addition to sector organisations, Fortum has joined several joint business initiatives promoting market-driven energy and climate policy: 
UN Caring for Climate initiative, World Bank’s Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition and Climate Leadership Council
Non-
governmental 
organisations• Responsibility for operations and risk management
• Promoting renewable energy production
• Reliable and open reporting• We develop environmental and safety risk management
• We invest in renewable energy: in 2017, a total of EUR 291 million in hydro, wind and solar power and bioenergy
• We collaborate with Finnish and Swedish nature conservation associations regarding our environmentally benign electricity products 
• We communicate actively and we report openly
Local communities• Operational safety
• Developing employment, infrastructure and recreational use
• Reducing emissions, noise and other inconveniences• We invest in infrastructure and plant safety. In 2017 we arranged an emergency preparedness exercise for hydropower in Finland
• We collaborate with local communities in all our operating countries: 
Examples of our activities in 2017 
• We reduce emissions and local environmental impactsEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility16
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topicsBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGs Stakeholders
Sustainability 
approach
Fortum’s bid for Uniper raised stakeholder interest
Fortum announced a voluntary public takeover offer  for all 
shares in Uniper towards the end of 2017  . By investing in Uniper, 
Fortum continues the capital redeployment to enable a more 
efficient use of its balance sheet and delivers on its strategic goal to 
drive productivity and industry transformation in Europe  . The offer 
period commenced in November and in early January E  .ON 
tendered its 46  .65% shareholding to Fortum  . At the end of the 
acceptance period in early February 2018 altogether 47  .12% of 
Uniper’s shares were tendered to Fortum  . The offer is still subject to 
competition and regulatory approvals  . Fortum expects to finalise 
the transaction in mid-2018  .
Fortum’s bid for Uniper is one of the biggest in the history 
of Finnish economy and it has gained a lot of attention both 
nationally and internationally  . Also many stakeholders such as 
SRI investors and non-governmental organisations have contacted Fortum to discuss the bid  . The main concern raised by the various 
stakeholders has been the strategic fit of Uniper’s fossil-based 
production with Fortum low-carbon assets and, consequently, the 
potential increase of Fortum’s carbon footprint  . Our anticipated 
role as Uniper’s biggest shareholder has also been connected with the discussions around the Nord Stream 2  .
A powerful combination to drive the 
European energy transition
Together Fortum and Uniper have the strategic mix of assets – both 
clean and secure – as well as the expertise required to successfully 
and affordably drive Europe’s transition towards a low carbon 
energy system  . Fortum’s power production is divided roughly in 
three equal parts consisting of hydropower and other renewables, 
nuclear power and gas-fired production  . Also Uniper is much more 
than a coal company  . Approximately 70% of the company’s power 
generation is based on low-carbon gas-fired generation and CO 2 
free hydro and nuclear power  . The share of the company’s CO 2 free 
production is about 20%  . Fortum’s investment in Uniper does not 
increase the total CO 2 emissions in Europe  . 
Conventional energy production continues to play an important 
role in ensuring affordable and secure supply of energy during the transition  . Furthermore, gas-fired generation, in particular, 
can respond to the increasing intermittent renewable production, providing the flexibility needed in geographies where sufficient 
hydropower resources are not available  . Fortum expects its 
investment in Uniper to deliver an attractive return that will further support us in accelerating the development and implementation of 
sustainable energy technologies  . 
Fortum continues to be fully committed to its strategy and 
sustainability targets – this has not changed  . Fortum’s carbon 
exposure (gCO
2/kWh) is already one of the lowest within the 
European power generation industry and we have a proven 
track-record on driving transition to a low-CO 2 direction .  
This is something that we consider our core competence and competitive advantage  .
Towards a low carbon energy system 
with efficient policies
Fortum is of the opinion that phasing out coal-fired generation 
to mitigate climate change is absolutely necessary, but it must be 
executed in a controlled and affordable manner  . It is the role of 
political decision makers to agree on the conditions and set up the 
frameworks that make this transition possible  . Fortum respects 
these decisions, but argues that decision-makers should provide 
a level playing field for companies operating in the integrating 
European energy market  . 
Over the year, several European countries have been discussing 
specific measures to forbid the use of coal in energy production 
to advance the transition  . However, in Fortum’s opinion, the best 
tool to phase out coal is the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS)  . 
If allowed to work properly, the ETS will drive emissions down in an economically efficient manner as it is neutral to the technology 
and location  . Should individual member states, nevertheless, 
decide to issue a coal ban, it is important that the decision-makers 
do respective changes in the ETS, so that their action lead to true 
emission reduction and not shift emissions from one country or 
sector to another  .Ensuring a responsible supply chain for coal
Fortum also acknowledges that not only the use of coal, but also the 
origin of coal is a source of concern to some stakeholders  . Fortum 
can only comment its own supply chain  . However, both Fortum and 
Uniper are members of the Bettercoal initiative, which drives for sustainable coal supply chain  . Bettercoal companies are committed 
to use Bettercoal tools in their coal purchasing  . The Bettercoal 
Code sets out the ethical, social and environmental principles and 
provisions that members of Bettercoal expect organizations producing coal in their supply chain to align with  . What comes to 
Fortum’s power plants, the 
coal  Fortum uses in Finland and 
Sweden originates from Russia  . The coal used in Poland originates 
mainly from Poland  . Fortum’s power plants in Russia use coal 
originating from Russia and Kazakhstan  .Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility17
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementSustainability  
indexesKey sustainability  
topicsBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGs Stakeholders
Sustainability 
approach
Case | NGO cooperation in India
In December 2017 the 100-MW Pavagada solar plant was connected 
to the grid in India. Thousands of migrant workers from diverse backgrounds around the country, with different religions, cultures, ethnicities, language, food habits and social rituals were involved in the construction phase. 
Parivartan, a grassroots-level NGO was brought in to help Fortum 
to draw synergy from this diversity and to ensure functionality between the workers. The Parivartan team members became a part of the community. They shared the same living conditions at the workers’ housing accommodations throughout the construction period. They started with small steps by first encouraging the workers to use good hygiene practices and gradually stepped up their efforts by sharing their knowledge about worker’s rights, the value of safety, respect for women workers, and how to use and share all the wellbeing facilities provided by the company. 
Parivartan employed many ingenious ways of communicating. 
They organized Saturday movies, and when the house was full they 
would take a break and talk about one of the topics. Separate events 
were also organised for female workers to discuss topics important to 
them. Parivartan trained workers to volunteer as, for example, hygiene inspectors, safety stewards and day care attendants for children. All aligned behaviours were rewarded. Parivartan also brought fun and games to their pitch and communicated thrugh street dramas. This approach ensured better recall and implementation of good practices at the workplace and better personal and group wellbeing. 
The results were impressive: the rate of absenteeism dropped, 
safety compliance increased, and the use of alcohol or other misconduct became nonexistent. 
Fortum’s activities have also been appreciated by the governmental 
health officials. Our well maintained housing accommodations and the 
high standards achieved in preventing diseases common in the area 
have been showcased as a benchmark for other solar developers.
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assurance AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility18
Sustainability 
approachPolicies and  
commitmentsGovernance and  
managementKey sustainability  
topics StakeholdersBusiness ethics  
and complianceOur contribution  
to the SDGsSustainability  
indexes
Sustainability 
approach
Sustainability indexes
Fortum was ranked in category A- (scale from D- to A, A being 
the highest score) and one of the top companies in the utilities 
sector in the annual CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 
rating 2017  . The rating means that the company represents best 
practices in environmental stewardship, understands risks and 
opportunities related to climate change, and implements strategies 
and approaches to mitigate and accommodate these risks and 
opportunities  . CDP is an international, not-for-profit organisation, 
which represents 827 institutional investors  . 
German oekom research AG has awarded Fortum a Prime Status (B-) rating  . Prime Status means that Fortum is among the best 
companies in its sector and fulfils industry-specific best-in-class requirements  . Oekom research AG annually assesses about 
 
3,800 companies  .
 Fortum is included in the ECPI® Indices  . These indices are used 
for benchmarking, thematic investments, risk management purposes and to create index-tracking investment strategies or 
ETF’s (Exchange-traded funds)  . ECPI is a leading rating and index 
company dedicated to ESG Research (Environmental, Social and 
Governance) since 1997  .
 
Fortum has been integrated into the Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 
120 index as of December 2016  . This index distinguishes the 
120 companies in the Eurozone region achieving the most advanced 
environmental, social and governance performances  . 
 
The assessment is based on a review of up to 330 indicators  .
 Fortum is included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices which 
list global leaders in terms of environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria  . The family of indices is made up of three specialised 
indexes for the categories mentioned and one broad index which sums up the specialized indexes  .
 
Fortum has been included in the NASDAQ OMX and GES 
Investment Service’s OMX GES Sustainability Finland index  . It 
provides investors with reliable and objective information about company performance in sustainability  . GES Investment Services 
compares leading companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and 
their responsibility in environmental, social and governance issues  . 
The 40 top-ranking companies in the assessment are included in the index  .Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices19
Economic  
responsibilityFor Fortum, economic responsibility means competiveness, 
performance excellence and market-driven production that create 
long-term value for our stakeholders and enable sustainable 
growth  . Satisfied customers are key to our success and active 
consumers will have a crucial role in the future energy system  . 
Fortum has indirect responsibility for its supply chain  . We 
conduct business with viable companies that act responsibly and 
comply with the Fortum Code of Conduct and the Supplier Code 
of Conduct  .Economic responsibility
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices20
Economic  
responsibilityEconomic  
impactsSupply chain  
managementCustomer satisfaction  
and reputation
Fortum is a significant economic actor in Finland, Sweden, 
Russia, Poland, Norway and the Baltic countries  . We continuously 
monitor the impact and wellbeing generated by our operations to our stakeholders  . The key stakeholders include lenders and 
shareholders, customers, personnel, suppliers of goods and 
services, and the public sector  .
The most significant direct monetary flows of Fortum’s 
operations come from revenue from customers, procurements 
of goods and services from suppliers, compensation to lenders, dividends to shareholders, growth and maintenance investments, 
employee wages and salaries, and taxes paid  .
Our operations also have indirect economic impacts  . The 
Finnish State owns 50  .8% of Fortum’s shares, and we contribute 
to a functioning society by, among other things, paying taxes 
and dividends  . These secure society’s basic functions and build 
wellbeing  . Investments and the procurement of goods and services 
provide employment both locally and outside our operating areas  . 
New investment proposals are assessed against sustainability 
criteria  . In terms of suppliers of goods and services, we also assess 
the global impacts, paying particular attention to suppliers of 
goods and services operating in risk countries  . The wages and taxes 
paid have a positive impact on local communities  .
 Economic impacts
Distribution of added value
Personnel
EUR 423 millionPublic sector
EUR 312 millionSuppliers
EUR 2,622 million
Lenders and shareholders
EUR 1,270 millionCapital expenditures
EUR 657 millionAcquisitions of shares
EUR 972 millionDivestments
EUR 749 million
2016: EUR 49 millionCustomers
EUR 4,643 million
2016: EUR 3,705 million
2016: EUR 334 million
2016: EUR 1,086 million 2016: EUR 599 million 2016: EUR 695 million2016: EUR 514 million 2016: EUR 2,128 millionEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices21
Economic  
responsibilityEconomic  
impactsSupply chain  
managementCustomer satisfaction  
and reputation
Monetary flows by stakeholder group in 2015–2017 (GRI 201-1)
EUR million 2017 2016 2015
Generation of added value    
Income from customers Income from customers on the basis of products and services sold 
and financial income 4,643 3,705 3,517
Divestments Income from divestment of shares, business activities or plants 749 * 49 55
Purchases from suppliers Payments to suppliers of raw materials, goods and services -2,622 -2,128 -1,623
Fortum produced added value  2,770 1,627 1,950
Distribution of added value  
Employees compensation Wages, salaries and remunerations and other indirect employee costs -423 -334 -351
Lenders and shareholders compensations Dividends paid to investors, interest, realised foreign exchange 
gains and losses and other financial expenses -1,270 -1,086 -1,119
Public sector Income and production taxes paid, support for society and 
donations -312 -514 -351
Distributed to stakeholders, total  -2,004 -1,934 -1,821
Surplus/ deficit cash 765 -307 128
Capital expenditures -657 -599 -527
Acquisitions of shares -972
 * -695 -43
Discontinued operations 1)6,457
Surplus/ deficit including investments and discontinued operations -864 -1,601 6,015
1) Includes the electricity distribution business divested in 2015.
* Divestments and acquisitions of shares are mainly related to the restructuring of the ownership in Hafslund. Further information in Financial Statements Note 38 Acquisitions 
and disposals.
In 2017 , the difference between added value generated and 
distributed to stakeholders was EUR 765 (2016: -307) million for the 
development of own operations  .
The distribution of the economic added value generated by our 
operations to the most significant operating areas is reported in the following parts of the annual reporting: 
SALES BY MARKET AREA BASED ON CUSTOMER 
LOCATION: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, NOTE 5
EMPLOYEE COSTS BY COUNTRY 
TAX FOOTPRINT 
We have included investments in our own assessment of economic impacts, as their annual volume and impact on the society is 
significant  . In 2017 we invested EUR 375 (2016: 270) million in CO
2 free energy production  . Capital expenditure by country and by 
production type is presented in the Financial Statements, Note 17  .2 
Capital Expenditure  .
Provisions related to nuclear power are covered in the Financial 
statements, Note 28 Nuclear related assets and liabilities  . Financial 
implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate 
change, as well as emissions trading are reported in the section 
Climate change mitigation  . Our pension arrangements conform 
to the local regulations and practices in each operating country; the 
arrangements are discussed in the Financial Statements, Note 30 
Pension obligations  .
In 2017 we received financial support from the public sector in 
the form of investments, R&D and other significant grants totalling EUR 1  .7 (2016: 3  .8) million  . The figure excludes free emission 
allowances and electricity certificates as well as electricity and heat price related subsidies  .Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices22
Economic  
responsibilitySupply chain  
managementEconomic  
impactsCustomer satisfaction  
and reputation
Economic  
responsibility
For Fortum, customer satisfaction and reputation are a top priority 
in implementing the company’s strategy and in growing the 
business  . We have set Group-wide targets for customer satisfaction 
and for our reputation .  
Customer in the centre 
The Group-wide Customer in the centre development programme, which was launched in 2015 with the aim of promoting a customer-
centric culture in our company, continued in 2017  . One of our 
five must-win battle (MWB) development programmes is “Put 
the customer in the centre”  . The programme contains specific 
projects to improve the customer experience and our offering, 
e .g ., by utilising the opportunities brought by digitalisation  . As an 
expanding company, it is also important to ensure that our new customers are satisfied with our services  . In 2017 we expanded 
in Norway, where Fortum acquired 100% of Hafslund’s Markets business area, which consists of several electricity retail brands  . In 
conjunction with that, Fortum gained 1  .1 million new customers, 
increasing our Nordic customer base to 2  .5 million  . 
One Fortum survey provides information  
about all stakeholder groups
We use the extensive One Fortum survey to annually measure 
customer satisfaction and our reputation and the factors that 
impact them  . The survey is conducted yearly in spring and it covers 
customers, decision makers, capital markets, non-governmental 
organisations and opinion influencers as well as Fortum’s 
personnel  . In Finland and Sweden, we also survey the views of the 
general public and media  . During autumn we also conduct a follow-
up survey among our electricity sales customers  . 
We conducted the One Fortum survey in 2017 in Finland, 
Sweden, Norway, Poland, the Baltic countries, Russia and India  . 
Over 4‚600 customers and nearly 3‚100 other stakeholders were 
interviewed  . We also monitor other publicly available research sources, but up to year-end 2017 we have defined Group targets and our identified development areas on the basis of the One Fortum 
survey results  . As of 2018 we will use multiple monitoring data to 
best accommodate the multiple electricity retail brands Fortum 
now owns after the Hafslund acquisition  .
Customer satisfaction 
In the annual One Fortum Survey in spring, our district heating customers’ satisfaction remained overall fairly unchanged and in 
most countries on a good level  . Among our retail electricity sales 
customers, the satisfaction decreased somewhat in Norway and 
in Poland, whereas in Finland and Sweden the results were stable  . 
Our Power Solutions customers ranked us a bit lower this year compared to last year, but the satisfaction is still on a very good 
level  . The Recycling and Waste Solutions unit was not part of the 
One Fortum survey in spring 2017  . In the autumn 2017 One Fortum 
follow-up survey, the results were stable among the electricity retail customers in Finland and Norway compared to autumn 2016, 
while in Sweden we improved a bit  . We saw a slight decrease in the 
satisfaction in Poland  . 
In the autumn 2017 measurement we also included new Fortum 
units in the survey scope  . Several of the acquired Hafslund Markets 
brands were measured as well as our Recycling and Waste Solutions unit, which had the highest customer satisfaction level of all 
measured Fortum units in the One Fortum Survey  . 
Our Group-level target for all business areas in 2017 was to 
achieve a customer satisfaction rating of “good”, i  .e . 70–74 on 
a scale 0–100, in the One Fortum survey  . The target was achieved 
among all business areas, but not in retail electricity sales  .
Other public customer satisfaction results 
The international and independent EPSI Rating annually surveys 
the level of satisfaction of electricity retail company customers in 
Finland, Sweden and Norway  . Customer satisfaction and reputation
Customer satisfaction 1) in 2015–2017
 2017 2016 2015
Finland
Fortum 75.6 73.3 74.7
SwedenFortum 56.1 53.4 64.4
Göta Energi 
2)64.7 62.9 64.4
SverigesEnergi 2)60.5 61.0 68.8
NorwayFortum 71.1 72.7 75.6
Hafslund Strøm 
2)68.2 70.3 66.6
NorgesEnergi 2)71.9 71.3 71.4
1) EPSI Rating in Finland and Norway; Svenskt Kvalitetsindex in Sweden
2) Brands acquired through the Hafslund acquisition Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices23
Economic  
responsibilitySupply chain  
managementEconomic  
impactsCustomer satisfaction  
and reputation
Economic  
responsibility
Reputation
Our reputation is strongest amongst opinion influencers and 
non-governmental organisations, followed by decision makers and 
our own personnel  . The biggest change compared to the previous 
year was among capital markets, where the result recovered 
significantly from the drop in the previous year  . Our reputation 
continues to be weakest among the general public  . Based on the 
survey results, we should continue our efforts to improve social 
responsibility and customer centricity and to maintain our good operational expertise  .
The Group-level target for our reputation in 2017 was a rating 
of 70  .7 in the One Fortum survey, measured as the average rating 
given by all stakeholders included in the One Fortum Survey, apart from customers  . Rankings given by customers are not included 
in the reputation index calculation because we treat customer 
satisfaction as a separate entity  . In 2017 , we achieved an average 
rating of 72  .3 among these stakeholder groups  . The target set for 
2018 (73  .0) includes the same stakeholder groups as in 2017  . 
Brand 
We also monitor brand development, i  .e . what impression 
the general public has about our brand  . The survey includes 
the measurement of, e  .g ., brand awareness, preference and 
brand attributes  . 
64–76
Customer satisfaction
Target: 70–7472.3
ReputationTarget: 70.7
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices24
Economic  
responsibilityCustomer satisfaction  
and reputationEconomic  
impactsSupply chain  
management
Economic  
responsibility
24Fortum is a significant purchaser of goods and services  . We 
actively strive to reduce the environmental impacts caused by our 
operations and to improve economic and social wellbeing  . We also 
manage risks related to our supply chain  . The aim is that open and 
efficient collaboration creates value for both parties  .
Electricity purchases increased significantly
Fortum’s purchasing volume in 2017 was EUR 3  .2 (2016: 2  .5) 
billion .  Electricity purchased from the Nordic wholesale electricity 
market for retail sales, investments, and fuel purchases accounted 
for the majority of Fortum’s purchases  . The number of electricity 
customers increased with the acquisition of Hafslund, which also 
increased electricity purchases from the wholesale markets by 40% 
compared to 2016  . 
Of our purchases, EUR 657 (2016: 599) million targeted various 
investments  . The biggest investments, EUR 173 million, were made 
in Finland  . A large share of the investments is contracted out in full 
with materials, installation and other service as well as contractor work included in the total purchase  .
Fortum’s fuel purchases in 2017 totalled EUR 564 (2016: 524) 
million  . We purchase fuels from international and local suppliers  . 
Our fossil fuel purchases totalled about EUR 498 (2016: 448) 
million, biomass fuels about EUR 48 (2016: 44) million, and nuclear 
fuel about EUR 35 (2016: 38) million  .
The rest of our purchases, EUR 2  .0 (2016: 1  .4) billion, consist of 
other goods and services  . The figure includes electricity purchased 
from the Nordic wholesale electricity market for retail sales  . The 
other goods and services purchases were related to, for example, operation and maintenance as well as to other functions, such as 
IT solutions, marketing and travel  .Half of purchases from Europe 
Half, i  .e . 50%, of the purchasing volume was purchased from 
suppliers operating in Europe, mostly in Finland, Sweden and 
Poland  . This does not include electricity purchases from the Nordic 
wholesale market  . 47% of Fortum’s purchases were from risk 
countries  . The majority of these purchases were from Russia  .
Violations related to work conditions and human rights are 
more likely in risk countries than in non-risk countries  . Fortum’s 
risk-country classification is based on the ILO’s Decent Work Agenda, the UN’s Human Development index and Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perceptions index  . 
In 2017 , we had about 16,000 (2016: 15,000) suppliers of goods 
and services  . About 1,500 of the suppliers were in risk countries  . 
Excluding the Russia Division’s local suppliers, there were about 
260 suppliers in risk countries  .Sustainable fuel purchasing 
The most significant environmental impacts of our supply chain are 
related mainly to fuels, particularly to coal and biomasses  . There 
are significant environmental aspects associated with open-pit 
coal mining, including natural resource efficiency, emissions 
to air, water and soil, and impacts on biodiversity  . Significant 
occupational health and safety risks can be related to working in underground mines  . The sustainability aspects of biomass 
sourcing are related primarily to biodiversity, but risks particularly 
outside the EU can also include, for instance, illegal logging or 
human rights violations  . 
In fuel purchasing, special attention is paid to the origin of 
the fuel and to responsible production  . In 2017 we had about 
150 suppliers in our fuel supply chain, 6% of them operated in 
risk countries  .Purchases, EUR million
 Investments, 657
 Fuels, 564
 Other purchases, 2,001Supply chain management 
Purchases 1) excluding investments, 2015–2017
EUR million 2017 2016 2015
Nordic countries 1,548 1,106 935
Russia 586 505 546
Poland 375 279 138
Other countries 56 53 58
Total 2,565 1,943 1,677
1) Includes purchases of fuel, power and other materials and servicesEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices25
Economic  
responsibilityCustomer satisfaction  
and reputationEconomic  
impactsSupply chain  
management
Economic  
responsibility
25Natural gas 
The natural gas used in Russia, the Baltic countries and Finland 
originated from several different suppliers in Russia  . The natural 
gas used in Poland originated from Poland and the natural gas used 
in Norway originated from Norway  .
Coal 
The coal used in Finland originated from Russia  . The coal used in 
Poland originated mainly from Poland  . The power plants in Russia 
used coal originating from Russia and Kazakhstan  . 
Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal initiative , and uses the 
Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the coal 
supply chain .
Biomass 
The biomass we used consisted mainly of forest residue chips, chips from roundwood and industrial wood residues that originated from 
Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries, Norway and Poland  . About 
57% of the wood-based biofuel used by Fortum in 2017 originated 
from certified sources  . The share was over 70% in Finland  .
Our goal is that 80% of the wood-based biomass fuel we use is 
certified by a third party by the end of 2020  . We also aim to apply for Chain of Custody certification for our wood-based fuel purchases 
during 2018  . 
The bio-oil plant integrated with Fortum’s Joensuu power 
plant has a sustainability system approved by The Finnish Energy Authority  . The system is used to prove compliance with nationally 
legislated sustainability criteria for bio-oil  .
Uranium 
The fuel assemblies used at the Loviisa power plant in Finland 
are completely of Russian origin  . The fuel supplier acquires 
the uranium used in the fuel assemblies from Russian mines 
in accordance with Fortum’s agreement  . In 2017 , the uranium 
originated from the Krasnokamensk, Khiagda and Dalur mines  . 
Both ARMZ Uranium Holding Co  ., a uranium producer, 
and TVEL, which is responsible for refining and manufacturing 
uranium, have environmental and occupational safety systems in 
place in all their plants  . All three uranium mines have ISO 14001 
environmental certification  . The Khiagda mine has also an 
OHSAS 18001 certified occupational health and safety management system  . The zirconium material manufacturing plant and the plant 
responsible for manufacturing uranium oxide pellets and fuel assemblies have ISO 14001 environmental management system 
certification and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety 
management system certification  . 
We regularly assess the quality, environmental, and 
occupational health and safety management systems of our nuclear fuel suppliers and the manufacturing of nuclear fuel assemblies  . 
In summer 2017 , Fortum’s representatives assessed the operations of Fortum’s Russian fuel supplier’s uranium mine  . The plant was 
in good condition technically, and its quality and environmental 
management systems were certified  .Origin of fuels used at Fortum in 2017 1)
Fuel Country of origin
Biomass Finland, Poland, Russia, Norway, Baltic 
countries 
Coal Russia, Kazakhstan, Poland
Natural gas Russia, Poland, Norway
Uranium Russia
Oil Russia
Peat Finland, Estonia
1) Biggest countries of origin by purchase volume in 2017
 
FUEL CONSUMPTION
Sustainable supply chain 
We expect our business partners to act responsibly and to comply with the Fortum Code of Conduct and the Supplier Code of 
Conduct  . Fortum’s key tools in supply chain management are 
country and counterparty risk assessments, supplier qualification 
and supplier audits  .
Codes of conduct cover basic requirements 
The Fortum Code of Conduct forms the foundation for ethical business conduct and defines how we treat others, engage in 
business, and safeguard our corporate assets  . 
The Supplier Code of Conduct includes the sustainability 
requirements for suppliers of services and goods  . The Supplier 
Code of Conduct is based on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and is divided into four sections: anti-
corruption, human rights, labour standards, and the environment  . 
The country and counterparty risk assessment follows the same structure  . 
The Supplier Code of Conduct is used in all our countries 
of operation and is included in all purchase agreements with a contract value of EUR 50,000 or more  . Training related to the 
Supplier Code of Conduct were arranged in 2017 for Fortum’s Baltic 
functions and for the Recycling and Waste Solutions personnel in 
Finland and Sweden  .Over 70%   
of the wood-based 
biofuel we used in Finland originated from certified sources.
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach Appendices26
Economic  
responsibilityCustomer satisfaction  
and reputationEconomic  
impactsSupply chain  
management
Economic  
responsibility
26Supplier qualification 
We assess the level of operations of our business partners 
through supplier qualification and supplier audits  . The supplier 
qualification is made when the purchase volume is EUR 50,000 or 
more  . In the qualification process, suppliers respond to a survey 
that we use to help determine, among other things, the supplier’s possible operations in risk countries, certified management 
systems, and the occupational safety level of the contractors  . We 
pay special attention also to anti-corruption practices  . 
If potential risks in the supplier’s operations are identified 
through the questionnaire, a more extensive self-assessment 
questionnaire may be sent or a supplier audit is conducted  . The 
extensive self-assessment questionnaire is always sent to fuel suppliers and the suppliers of Fortum India  . 
 The supplier qualification process was renewed in 2016, and the 
majority of the personnel received training in the new practices  . 
Training events were held in 2017 for Fortum’s personnel in the Baltic countries and Poland, and Recycling and Waste Solutions 
personnel in Finland, Sweden and Denmark  .
The Russia Division uses its own supplier qualification 
process that is based on Russian procurement law  . In the Russian 
operations, we set supplier requirements for business principles, ethics, environmental management, and occupational health and 
safety practices  .Supplier audits support assessments 
In supplier audits, we assess the supplier’s compliance with the 
requirements in Fortum’s Supplier Code of Conduct  . Audits are 
always done on-site, and they include production inspections, 
employee interviews, and reviews of documents  . If non-
compliances are found, the supplier makes a plan for corrective actions and we monitor the implementation of them  . 
Fortum uses an international service provider for conducting 
audits, especially in risk countries  . In Fortum’s own operating 
countries, the audits are performed mainly by own personnel  .
In 2017 , we conducted a total of 11 (2016: 13) supplier audits for 
a total of ten suppliers in China, India, Russia, Slovenia, Estonia 
and Finland .  
Most of the non-compliances identified in the audits in 
2017 were related to occupational safety, overtime hours and remuneration  . The audits conducted did not reveal non-
compliances related to freedom of association, discrimination, 
or child or forced labour, but we issued a recommendation to two 
Chinese suppliers to strengthen their practices to prevent the 
potential use of child labour  .
Fortum uses the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the 
sustainability of the coal supply chain  . Bettercoal audits are always 
conducted by a third, accredited party  . The Bettercoal Assessment 
Programme was renewed in 2017  . In the renewed programme, 
coal suppliers commit already in the initial phase to the Bettercoal 
Assessment by signing a Letter of Commitment  . In 2017 , one of 
Fortum’s Russian coal suppliers and one Kazakhstan coal supplier signed the Letter of Commitment  . One of Fortum’s Russian coal 
suppliers was audited in February 2018  . Additionally, two of 
Fortum’s coal suppliers have been audited in previous years  .Supplier audits by supplier type 
 Materials, 6
 Contractors, 3
 Fuels, 2
Supplier audits by country
 China, 4
 India, 3
 Estonia, 1
 Russia, 1
 Slovenia, 1
 Finland, 1Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility27
Environmental  
responsibilityFortum’s aim is to provide our customers with environmentally 
benign products and services  . We strive to continuously reduce the 
environmental impacts of our operations by using best available practices and technologies  . We emphasise a circular economy, 
resource and energy efficiency, the use of waste and biomass, and 
climate change mitigation in environmental responsibility  . 
Our company’s know-how in carbon dioxide-free hydro and 
nuclear power production and in energy-efficient combined 
heat and power production, investments in solar and wind 
power, as well as solutions for sustainable cities play a key role 
in environmental responsibility  .Environmental responsibility
Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility28
Environmental  
responsibilityEnvironmental impacts
Some of the environmental impacts of energy production are global 
or wide-reaching, some are regional or local  . In terms of Fortum’s 
operations, the key environmental aspects include:
• Climate change 
• Use of renewable energy sources 
• Circular economy 
• Flue-gas emissions 
• Hydropower’s environmental impacts and biodiversity 
• Fuel procurement
We manage our environmental impacts with environmental 
management systems  . 99 .8% of our electricity and heat production 
is ISO 14001 certified  . 
Climate change mitigation 
We can reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by increasing carbon 
dioxide-free energy production and the use of renewable energy 
sources, and improving energy efficiency of production  . 61% of 
the total electricity we produced in 2017 was carbon dioxide-free  . 
We made several investments and investment decisions that will significantly grow our wind and solar power production in the years ahead  .
Circular economy boosts resource efficiency 
We recycle significant amounts of waste and energy production 
by-products generated in our operations  . Additionally, our 
circular economy services separate from municipal waste 
streams substances that can be utilised as materials and for 
energy production  . 
The continuous improvement of resource and energy efficiency 
is important in terms of the sufficiency of natural resources and climate change mitigation  . In improving the energy efficiency 
of our own production, we have gained expertise that we have put to use in providing energy-efficiency services to other 
energy companies  .Advanced combustion technology 
Fuel use generates sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particle 
emissions that degrade air quality and cause acidification of soil 
and water systems  . These emissions can be effectively reduced 
with various flue-gas cleaning technologies  . Special expertise in 
combustion technology is one of Fortum’s strengths, and we have supplied our own power plants and many other energy companies 
with combustion technology solutions to reduce nitrogen oxides  .
Mitigation of hydropower’s environmental impacts
Damming rivers and regulating water systems change the natural water levels and discharges and cause changes in aquatic habitats  . 
We actively take part in research activities in the sector and 
implement voluntary and permit-based measures to develop the 
biodiversity, fish populations and the multi-use of water systems 
where we produce hydro power  .
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS BY PRODUCTION FORM
Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility29
Environmental  
responsibilityEnvironmental key figures
The table and graphs present our key targets and figures for 
environmental responsibility  .Key figures for environmental responsibility
 2017 2016 2015
Carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1), million tonnes 18.3 18.6 19.2
Sulphur dioxide emissions, 1000 tonnes 18.8 22.5 19.9
Nitrogen oxide emissions, 1000 tonnes 27.5 26.0 26.8
Particle emissions, 1000 tonnes 15.8 16.8 17.8
Specific CO 2 emissions of power generation, g/kWh 173 173 166
Specific CO 2 emissions of power generation in the EU, g/kWh 28 28 21
Specific CO 2 emissions of total energy production, g/kWh 184 184 181
5-year average, g/kWh 188 188 191
Share of CO 2-free energy in power generation, % 61 62 64
Share of renewable energy in power generation, % 30 30 34
Share of renewable energy in heat production, % 9 7 8
Energy efficiency improvement, GWh/ a 131 245 479 *
Utilisation of gypsum originated from energy production, % 100 100 100
Utilisation of ash originated from energy production, % 47 37 33
Material recovery rate of waste received from customers, % 57 - -
Water withdrawal in production operations, million m32,120 2,140 * 2,138
of which cooling water, million m31,994 2,035 * 2,060
Major EHS incidents, no. 20 22 18
of which environmental permit violations, no. 2 11 14
ISO 14001-certified operations in power and heat production, % of sales 99.8 99.9 99.9
* Figure revised
2015 2016 2017 2018220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0 Specific carbon dioxide emissions  
of total energy production in 2015–2017
 Annual specific emissions
 Specific emissions (5-year average)
 Target (5-year average) g/kWh
2015 2016 2017GW h /aAnnual energy savings achieved in 2015–2017
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
 Cumulative energy savings from 2012
 Target (year 2020)
 New target is 1,900 GWh/a by 2020.2015 2016 2017 201830
25
20
15
10
5
0 Number of major EHS incidents in 2015–2017
 Number of major EHS incidents
 Target pcsSocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility30
Environmental  
responsibilitySustainable  
energy productionCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air Biodiversity
Our energy production is based primarily on carbon dioxide-free 
hydro and nuclear power and on energy-efficient combined heat 
and power production  . In line with our strategy, we are targeting a 
gigawatt-scale solar and wind portfolio  .
Fortum’s power generation in 2017 was 73  .2 (2016: 73  .1) TWh 
and heat production 28  .6 (2016: 27  .8) TWh  . 61% (2016: 62%) of our 
power generation was carbon dioxide-free and 30% (2016: 30%) was produced from renewable energy sources  . About 9% (2016: 7%) 
of our heat production was produced from renewable, carbon-free energy sources  .
Power generation and heat production by energy source are 
presented in the accompanying tables  . The figures include also 
figures from Fortumʼs share in associated companies and joint 
ventures that sell their production to the owners on cost basis  . 
More renewable energy
We commissioned two new solar power plants in India in 2017 , in addition to the previous 15-MW solar power capacity  . The new 
solar power plants are the 70-MW Bhadla solar power plant and the 100-MW Pavagada solar power plant  . At the end of 2017 , we 
acquired the 10-MW Pleshanovskaya and 10-MW Grachevskaya solar power plants, and the 15-MW Bugulchanskaya solar power 
plant in Russia  .
Fortum has actively invested also in wind power  . At the 
beginning of 2017 , we acquired Nygårdsfjellet’s 32-MW wind power park and the licensed Ånstadblåheia (about 50 MW) and Sørfjord 
(about 90 MW) wind power projects in Norway  . Additionally, there 
were under construction the 35-MW Ulyanovsk wind power park 
in Russia, and in Sweden the Solberg 75-MW wind power park, of 
which Fortumʼs share of ownership is 50%  . Ulyanovsk, Solberg and 
Ånstadblåheia wind power parks are estimated to start production in 2018  . 
In 2017 , Fortum and RUSNANO established a 50/50-owned wind 
investment fund that was awarded the right to build 1,000 MW of wind power in Russia in 2018–2022 in the RES capacity selection auction  . The wind investment fund made a decision on Sustainable energy production
construction of the first 50-MW wind farm in Russia  . The wind 
farm is expected to start production in 2019  . 
In 2017 , the refurbishments of Fortumʼs own hydropower 
plants in Sweden and Finland introduced 8 MW of new, renewable electricity production capacity  .
New, energy-efficient production capacity
Replacement of a high-pressure turbine was carried out at the Loviisa nuclear power plant’s unit 1 during the annual outage  . This 
replacement increased the plant unit’s nominal output by 5 MW  . 
In Russia, the third new CHP unit at the Chelyabinsk GRES 
power plant was completed at the end of 2017  . The plant is fuelled 
by natural gas, and its electricity production capacity is 248 MW and heat production capacity 174 MW  . The first power plant unit 
of the same size was completed in late 2015 and the second in spring 2016  . 
Construction of the new CHP plant in Zabrze, Poland, 
continued; the plant is scheduled for completion in 2018  . The power 
plant has a maximum production capacity of 75 MW electricity and 
145 MW heat, and the plant replaces the old coal-fired plants units 
in Zabrze and Bytom  . The plant is primarily fuelled by refuse-
derived fuel (RDF) and coal  . The Russia and Poland investments 
improve the efficiency of energy production and reduce carbon dioxide and other emissions into the environment in relation to 
produced energy  .
Energy production from waste and biomass fuels
In early August 2017 , Fortum concluded the restructuring of its ownership in Hafslund together with the City of Oslo  . In the 
arrangement, Hafslund’s district heat business operations and the 
City of Oslo’s waste-to-energy company Klemetsrudanlegget AS 
(KEA) were combined into one company, and Fortum acquired 50% 
of the combined company  . Fortum has operational responsibility 
for the joint venture  .
The total heat production capacity of Fortum Oslo Varme is 
1,111 MW  . The Klemetsrud waste-to-energy plant incinerates mainly municipal waste, and the plant’s production capacity is 148 MW heat and 19 MW electricity  . Haraldrud’s heat power plant 
has a 56-MW bioboiler, a 30-MW waste boiler, a 25-MW electricity 
boiler and two 50-MW gas boilers  . In addition to the Haraldrud 
heat plant, there are nine other heat plants in the Oslo region  .
ENERGY PRODUCTION FORMS
Power generation by energy source  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 302-1)
TWh 2017 2016 2015
Hydropower  20.7 20.7 25.0
Nuclear power 23.0 24.1 22.7
Natural gas 25.3 24.3 24.1
Coal 2.6 2.8 2.9
Biofuels 0.8 0.8 0.8
Waste-derived fuels 0.3 0.2 0.1
Wind, solar 0.5 0.1 0.1
Other 1)0.1 0.1 0.1
Total 73.2 73.1 75.9
1) Peat, other 
Heat production by energy source  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 302-1)
TWh 2017 2016 2015
Natural gas 18.6 19.7 24.2
Coal 4.8 4.7 5.0
Biomass fuels 1.9 1.9 2.0
Waste-derived fuel 2.3 0.8 0.4
Heat pumps, electricity 0.6 0.3 0.3
Peat 0.4 0.4 0.3
Other 1)0.0 0.0 0.1
Total  28.6 27.8 32.2
1) Fuel oil, otherSocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility31
Environmental  
responsibilitySustainable  
energy productionCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air Biodiversity
The City of Espoo and Fortum made a commitment in 2017 to make Espoo’s district 
heating system carbon-free and CO₂-neutral by 2030. Our joint pledge to Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development has been published on the Finnish National Commission on Sustainable Development’s 
commitment2050.fi   
website. We are also participating in the national implementation of the global Agenda2030 for Sustainable Development. 
The goal will be achieved by, among other things, developing and investing 
in new energy production solutions that aim to utilise waste heat flows, biomass and recycled fuels, as well as geothermal energy when possible. Additionally, we 
are developing new solutions and services for customers and thereby enabling 
sustainable, efficient and smart energy use. In city planning, extensive energy analyses at the master and town planning level are being compiled and energy-planning expertise is being utilised to meet climate targets. Land-use planning supports low-emission lifestyles. 
Over the past four years, heat production in Espoo has already integrated a 
heat pump plant in Suomenoja utilising heat from treated wastewater, a conversion to wood pellets at the Kivenlahti heat plant, the combustion of bio-oil at the Vermo heat plant, and a thermal energy storage in Suomenoja. Additionally, we have implemented various waste heat projects, like heat recovery at Ericsson’s data centre in Kirkkonummi and heat recovery at the Espoo Hospital. In just a short period of time, these measures have increased the share of waste heat and 
biomass fuels in heat production from close to zero to more than 25%.
In 2017, we advanced the realisation of the new Kivenlahti biomass fuelled 
heat plant by submitting an environmental permit application. Our goal is to start 
construction of the new heat plant during 2018. Additionally, we have advanced other new plant investments that will make it possible to stop using coal in Espoo’s district heat production in the 2020s. 
We made significant investments in 2016–2017 to expand the district cooling 
system in the southern region of Espoo. Based on CO₂-free and environmentally friendly free cooling, the expanded district cooling system will be fully deployed in 2018. In the district cooling system the thermal energy generated in the cooling of 
buildings is recycled back into the district heating network. 
Case | Society’s Commitment: 
Carbon-free district heating  
in Espoo by 2030Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility32
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Climate change  
mitigation
Environmental  
responsibility
Our vision – For a cleaner world – defines our ambition to move 
towards a low-emission energy system and optimal resource 
efficiency  . Our main tools in climate change mitigation are 
increasing renewable energy production, improving energy 
efficiency and providing smart energy solutions for our customers  .
Risks and opportunities associated  
with climate change 
We believe that our know-how in carbon dioxide-free hydro, 
nuclear, wind and solar energy and in energy-efficient combined 
heat and power (CHP) production is a competitive advantage  . We 
expect the concern about climate change to increase the demand 
for low-carbon and energy-efficient energy products and solutions  . 
Our developing circular economy services also meet this demand, 
as the use of non-recyclable and non-recoverable waste in energy 
production replaces fossil fuel and reduces the formation of 
greenhouse gases generated from biodegradable waste at landfills  .
Our operations are exposed to physical risks caused by 
climate change, including changes in weather patterns that could alter energy demand and energy production volumes  . 
Higher precipitation, flooding and extreme temperatures may affect, for instance, hydropower production, dam safety, and 
bioenergy supply and availability  . Hydrological conditions and 
temperature also affect the short-term electricity price in the Nordic 
power market .  
Potential strategic risks are related to regulation and to the 
future energy and climate policy, which impacts decision making 
on, for example, the technology used at production plants and the 
fuel selections, such as the use of biomass fuels  . In addition to 
climate change mitigation, we also aim to adapt our operations 
to the changing climate, and we take climate change into 
consideration in, among other things, production planning and 
the assessment of growth projects  .Climate change mitigation
Towards low-emissions production 
In Europe, we produce carbon dioxide-free electricity with hydro, nuclear and wind power and at CHP plants that utilise biomass 
and waste-derived fuels  . In the EU area, 96% (2016: 96%) of our 
electricity production was carbon-free in 2017  . The rest of the 
electricity was produced mainly with coal  . We produce solar power 
in India  . 
Our electricity production in Russia is based on fossil fuels, 
mainly on natural gas  . Our new plant units in Russia are based 
on gas turbine technology, which represents the best available 
technology in natural gas combustion  . 61% (2016: 62%) of our total 
electricity production was carbon dioxide-free  .
The following investments and projects, among others, directly 
or indirectly reducing carbon dioxide emissions were completed 
in 2017:
• Bhadla and Pavagada solar power plants in India
• District heating and district cooling construction project in 
Tartu, Estonia
• Heat recovery at a data centre to Espoo district heating network in Finland 
• Replacement of the high-pressure turbine in unit 1 at the Loviisa nuclear power plant in Finland
• Refurbishments of hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland 
We have estimated that these projects will reduce annual carbon dioxide emissions by about 162,000 tonnes  . 
Projects under construction and decisions on new investments 
are described in more detail in the 
Sustainable energy production section .  Climate-benign products and services
We offer our customers a range of energy products and  
energy services to help them improve their energy efficiency and 
reduce their carbon footprint:• Carbon dioxide-free electricity products and carbon-neutral heat products
• Solar panel solutions 
• Electric vehicle charging systems 
• Real-time monitoring and optimisation of energy consumption 
The growth of renewable energy increases the need for regulating 
power to balance the energy system and the need for new storage 
solutions in the energy system  . In a service based on demand 
flexibility, customers participate with Fortum to maintain the 
power balance  . Household water heaters or house batteries can be 
used to reduce the need to start up fossil-fuel-based reserve power plants and support the use of renewable energy by balancing peak 
consumption in the electricity network  .
We are expanding our offering also by investing in startups that 
are developing new technologies  . 
 The Tartu district heating 
and district cooling system expansion project wins the Global District Energy Climate Award 2017.
Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility33
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Climate change  
mitigation
Environmental  
responsibility
Innovative fuels
Fortum HorsePower  is a service concept in which Fortum delivers 
bedding to horse stables and picks up the bedding-manure mixture 
for combustion  . In 2017 , bedding-manure mixture was collected 
from more than 200 horse stables in Finland  . Fortum combusts the 
bedding-manure mixture at the Järvenpää CHP plant, and it was delivered also to other energy companies  . The service was rolled 
out also in Sweden in 2017  . 
The Joensuu bio-oil plant produced about 11,200 tonnes of 
bio-oil, the majority of which was used at a heat plant in the Joensuu 
power plant area and at the Vermo heat plant in Espoo, Finland  .
Emissions trading 
Over 79% of carbon dioxide emissions from our energy production 
in the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries and Poland are 
within the sphere of the EU’s emissions trading scheme  . We had 
a total of 50 (2016: 45) plants in six member countries within the 
EU’s emissions trading scheme in 2017  . Fortum was granted free 
emission allowances corresponding to 1  .0 (2016: 1  .0) million 
tonnes  . Our carbon dioxide emissions within the EU’s emissions 
trading scheme were 2  .3 (2016: 2  .7) million tonnes  . In terms of the 
emissions allowances, we had a deficit and had to purchase the 
shortfall of emissions allowances from the markets  . 
Fortum’s view is that emissions trading is the most cost-efficient 
way to achieve emissions targets  . In late 2017 , a consensus was 
reached between the Commission and the Parliament regarding 
the revision of the EU’s emissions trading directive for 2021–2030; national adoption of it will start in member states in 2018  . Fortum 
expects the revision to make emissions trading more efficient and to strengthen its steering effect  . We are of the opinion that the 
proposed EU governance model should eliminate national and EU-level policy measures that overlap with emissions trading  . 
We also want to promote the establishment of a global carbon 
pricing and carbon market  . Fortum has signed the Carbon Price 
Communiqué, an international business statement for setting 
a price on carbon emissions  . We also participate in several 
international business initiatives promoting the role of business in climate change mitigation  . These include the UN Global Compact’s 
Caring for Climate initiative and the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing 
Leadership Coalition initiative  . In Finland, Fortum is a member of 
the Climate Leadership Council  .
Carbon funds
Fortum is a participant in the international Prototype Carbon Fund 
(PCF) climate fund  . In 2017 , we received a total of about 12,000 CER 
emission reduction units from this fund  . So far, we have received 
a total of 2,760,000 emission reduction units, and we estimate that we will still receive about 120,000 units during the PCF’s 
operating period  .
 FORTUM’S POSITION ON THE DEVELOPMENT  
OF THE EU CLIMATE POLICY 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 totalled 23  .3 (2016: 23  .6) 
million tonnes  . Scope 1 emissions were 18  .4 million tonnes, Scope 
2 emissions 0  .1 million tonnes, and Scope 3 emissions 4  .8 million 
tonnes  . Greenhouse gas emissions are reported on a pro forma 
basis and the figures of the comparison years have not been adjusted because of partially insufficient data  . The effect of the 
Hafslund business acquisition is estimated to be less than 2% of 
our greenhouse gas emissions  . 
Direct greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 1
The majority of our greenhouse gas emissions are generated from the use of fossil fuels in electricity and heat production  . 
 
A small amount of emissions is generated from the use of company vehicles and leaks related to the natural gas distribution  . Our 
direct greenhouse gas emissions were 18  .4 (2016: 18  .8) million 
CO
2-equivalent tonnes  . The share of carbon dioxide from our 
direct greenhouse gas emissions was 99%  . The share of Scope 1 
greenhouse gas emissions from our total greenhouse gas emissions 
was 79%  . Direct greenhouse gas emissions  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 305-1)
Mt CO 2-eq 2017 2016 2015
CO 2 18.3 18.6 19.2
CH 4 0.01 0.01 0.01
N2O  0.09 0.17 0.14
HFCs 0.00 0.00 0.00
SF6 0.00 0.00 0.00
Total 18.4 18.8 19.3
 
Direct carbon dioxide emissions by country  in 2015–2017 (GRI 305-1)
million tonnes 2017 2016 2015
Finland 1.7 2.0 1.3
Russia  15.4 15.5 17.0
Poland 0.7 0.8 0.8
Other countries 0.5 0.3 0.1
Total 18.3 18.6 19.2
 
Of the direct carbon dioxide emissions, 84% (2016: 83%) originated 
from the Russian operations and 9% (2016: 10%) from Finland  . 
Carbon dioxide emissions decreased from the previous year by about 260,000 million tonnes primarily because of the decreased 
condensing power production  . Fortum’s direct biogenic carbon 
dioxide emissions were 1  .2 (2016: 1  .3) million tonnes  . 
The calculation of greenhouse gas emissions covers carbon 
dioxide (CO
2), methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), fluorinated 
hydrocarbons (HFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6) . Carbon 
dioxide emissions as well as methane and nitrous oxide emissions 
have been calculated on the basis of plant-specific fuel data  . The 
amounts of HFC compounds and SF 6 are reported on the basis of 
the amounts of gas added to the equipment  . Specific emission 
factors of gases are based on IPCC publications  .Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility34
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Climate change  
mitigation
Environmental  
responsibility
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 2 
Greenhouse gas emissions from the production of electricity 
purchased for our own use were 102,700 (2016: 95,500) tonnes of 
carbon dioxide-equivalent  . Carbon dioxide emissions accounted 
for 99  .6% of this  . The share of Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions of 
our total greenhouse gas emissions was 0  .4% . 
69% of Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions have been estimated 
on the basis of information received from electricity suppliers  . 
The rest, including Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions in Russia, has been estimated on the basis of country-specific breakdown of 
electricity production .  
 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 305-2)
t CO 2-eq 20172017  
(Location- 
based) 2016 2015
CO 2 102,300 109,900 95,000 85,003
CH 4 75 100 76 52
N2O 370 600 375 344
Total 102,700 110,600 95,500 85,400
 
Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 3 
The majority of our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions are caused 
by the purchases of goods and services, investments and the 
production and transportation of fuels  . The transportation of waste 
received from customers also creates greenhouse gas emissions 
in our circular economy business  . Other activities (e  .g . employee 
travel and waste management) account for less than 1% of Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions  . Our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 were an 
estimated 4  .8 (2016: 4  .7) million tonnes  . The share of Scope 
3 emissions was 21% of our total greenhouse gas emissions  . 
We estimate that all our Scope 3 emissions come from fossil energy sources  .
 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 305-3)
t CO 2-eq 2017 2016 2015
Fuel procurement 4,225,800 4,347,900 4,557,000
Purchased goods and 
services 371,700 233,700 83,000
Capital goods 229,400 142,700 50,000
Other activities 17,600 17,500 18,000
Total 4,844,500 4,741,800 4,708,000
 
We report Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in accordance 
with the requirements of the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting standard  . The volumes describing 
the scope of the various activities have been obtained from our monitoring and reporting systems  .
About 18% (2016: 20%) of the purchases were excluded from the 
purchasing categories defined by Fortum’s Procurement function, 
due to insufficient reporting  . The emissions for these are estimated 
with the average emissions factor of the specified purchasing 
categories  . The specific emission factors used in calculating the 
greenhouse gas emissions are based on different literature sources  . Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility35
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Climate change  
mitigation
Environmental  
responsibility
Gas Natural 
Fenosa173 28Specific CO 2 emissions of major utilities in Europe, g CO 2/kWh electricity, 2016
Note: All figures, except “Fortum total”, include only European power generation.
Fortum’s specific emissions of the power generation in 2017 in the EU were 28 g/kWh and in total 173 g/kWh, same as in the previous year.Source: PwC, December 2017, Climate Change and Electricity (including companies with power generation only), Fortum1,000
800
600
400
200
0 
DEI
EPH
RWE
CEZ
Uniper
Enel
A2A
EnBW
EDP
Drax
SSE
Vattenfall
Eneco
Fortum total
Iberdrola
E.ON
Verbund
Fortum EU
Statkraft
188 g/kWh
Specific CO 2-emissions, 
5-year average
Target: < 200 g/kWh
2015 2016 2017 2018220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0 g/kWhSpecific carbon dioxide emissions of total energy 
production in 2015–2017 (GRI 305-4)
 Annual specific emissions
 Specific emissions (5-year average)
 Target (5-year average) Specific carbon dioxide emissions
Our specific carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1) from total energy 
production in 2017 remained at the same level and were 184 (2016: 
184) g/kWh  . The five-year average, including 2017 , was 188 (2016: 
188) g/kWh, which is below the target of 200 g/kWh  . 
The boundary for specific carbon dioxide emissions generated 
from electricity production differs from other environmental 
reporting  . The figures include also figures from Fortumʼs share in 
associated companies and joint ventures that sell their production 
to the owners on cost basis  . This electricity production is based on 
hydro, wind and nuclear power, and the production doesn’t cause direct carbon dioxide emissions  . 
In the calculation of electricity production’s specific emissions, 
CHP plant emissions have been allocated for electricity and heat using the efficiency method presented in the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol guidelines, with heat production efficiency of 90% and 
electricity production efficiency of 40%  . Our specific carbon dioxide emissions from total electricity 
production (Scope 1) in 2017 were 173 (2016: 173) g/kWh  . Our 
specific carbon dioxide emissions from power production in the 
EU area were 28 (2016: 28) g/kWh  . The specific carbon dioxide 
emissions from our electricity production, measured as g CO
2/kWh, 
are low compared to other European electricity producers  . Our  
specific emissions in 2016 were one of the smallest among European major electricity utilities  . European reference data for 
2017 is not yet available  . Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility36
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Improving  
energy efficiency
Environmental  
responsibility
Energy efficiency is a key factor in energy production – from both 
an economic and environmental perspective  . Improving energy 
efficiency at power plants refers to measures we implement to increase the efficiency of production processes or reduce the energy consumption of plants or equipment  . This enables us to produce 
more electricity or heat for our customers without increasing fuel consumption .  
The energy efficiency of power plants can be increased through 
investments and technical improvements, preventive maintenance, 
and by training personnel in the optimal operation of the plant and 
in monitoring the plant’s operating economy  . Improving power 
plant availability also increases energy efficiency, as unplanned 
plant start-ups are reduced  .
Energy-efficiency investments
In fuel-based energy production, we aim to utilise the fuel’s energy 
as efficiently as possible  . Our most important means to improve the 
energy efficiency of fuel use is to increase combined heat and power (CHP) production  . In CHP production, up to 90% of the energy 
content of the fuels can be utilised  . Separate electricity production’s 
efficiency is about 40–60%  . 
A high-pressure turbine was replaced at the Loviisa nuclear 
power plant’s unit 1 in 2017  . The replacement increased the unit’s Improving energy efficiency 
nominal output by 5 MW, which means that in an average year it can produce 40 GWh more electric energy  . The Loviisa plantʼs unit 2 
will undergo the same replacement during the 2018 annual outage  .
In addition, other projects to improve energy efficiency were 
completed in 2017:
• Refurbishments of hydropower plants in Sweden and Finland, 
27 GWh
• Heat recovery from a data centre to Espoo’s district heating network in Finland, 17 GWh
• Construction of a district cooling plant in Tartu, Estonia, 
 
12 GWh
• Installation of a preheater at the Bytom Miechowice CHP plant  
in Poland, 9 GWh 
The energy-efficiency improvement projects are calculated to 
yield an annual energy savings of about 131 GWh  .
Target was achieved
Fortum’s target has been to achieve an annual energy savings 
of more than 1,400 GWh by 2020 compared to 2012  . By the end 
of 2017 , the annual cumulative energy savings achieved was 
1,502 GWh, which exceeded the set target by about 100 GWh  . The 
target was increased by 500 GWh/a, and the new target is to achieve annual energy savings of 1,900 GWh by 2020 compared to 2012  . 
Energy-efficiency services for homes 
Fortum has introduced energy-efficiency services for private customers in Finland and Sweden  . Fortum’s customers can, for 
instance, control and optimise the heating of their homes based on electricity price and demand or they can monitor energy consumption with an in-home display  . Energy-efficiency services for businesses
Fortum’s operation and maintenance services have been improving 
the energy-efficiency of our customers’ power plants already 
for decades  . We have expanded our energy-efficiency services: 
in addition to an individual power plant, we can review the 
development of a broader urban area and the profitability and 
environmental impacts of investments related to them  . In addition 
to production, the review takes into consideration the energy distribution to customers and the changes in energy consumption  . 
Energy-efficiency services were delivered to Finland and Eastern 
Europe in 2017  . 
ENERGY-EFFICIENCY SERVICES FOR HOMES
ENERGY-EFFICIENCY SERVICES FOR BUSINESSES
Fuel consumption
The most significant fuel used in our energy production was natural 
gas, and the next highest fuel use was uranium and coal  . Our goal 
in the future is to produce increasingly more added value from biomass fuels and waste-derived fuels  . The share of waste-derived 
fuels used in energy production in 2017 increased due to the growth of our circular economy business  .
1, 502 GWh/a
Energy-efficiency 
improvement
Target: > 1,400 
GWh/a by 2020 Fuel consumption in energy production, %
 Natural gas, 62
 Uranium, 21
 Coal, 10
 Biofuels, 3
 Waste-derived fuels, 3
 Other fuels, 1
Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility37
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Improving  
energy efficiency
Environmental  
responsibility
The energy-specific fuel consumption has been calculated based on the usage volumes and fuel-specific 
caloric values measured at the power plants  . Uranium consumption has been calculated as the thermal 
heat generation in the reactors  . Russia’s share of the total fuel consumption in 2017 was about 67%  . 
Russia accounted for 99% of our use of natural gas and 51% of our use of coal  .
Energy intensity
In 2017 , our fuel consumption in electricity and heat production was 110 (2016: 111) TWh, or 394 (2016: 398) PJ  . Additionally, we acquired 479 (2016: 460) GWh of electricity from external electricity suppliers  . 
With these energy resources, we produced 53,900 GWh of electricity, 27 ,900 GWh of heat, 30 GWh of cooling, and 53 GWh of bio-oil  . The total energy consumption, calculated as the difference between the 
procured energy resources and net production, was 45,000 (2016: 47 ,900) GWh, or 162 (2016: 172) PJ  . 
In combustion-based energy production, we aim to utilise the fuel as efficiently as possible  . In 2017 , 
our average fuel use efficiency was 59% (2016: 64%)  . The decline in fuel use efficiency was due to the 
increased use of waste-derived fuels  . The efficiency has been calculated by dividing the electricity and 
heat energy produced with the fuel by the energy content of the fuel used in the production  .
The energy intensity of our own production was 1  .7 (2016: 1  .4) . The intensity figure has been 
calculated by dividing the amount of used energy resources by the total net production of energy products, including also hydropower, wind power and solar power  .
ORIGIN OF OUR FUELSFuel use by country in 2017 (GRI 301-1)
 Finland Russia Poland Estonia DenmarkOther 
countries Total
Non-renewable fuels
Natural gas, million m366 7,068  1 4  12 7,151 
Coal, 1,000 t 490 1,176 333   1,999 
Waste-derived fuel, fossil, 1,000 t 200 189 363 751
Peat, 1,000 t 132   58  190 
Fuel oil, 1,000 t 6  1   1  1 10 
Nuclear fuel, t 23 23
Renewable fuelsBiofuels, 1,000 t 371  101  486 184 1,142 
Biogas, million m
33 3
Waste-derived fuel, renewable, 1,000 t 197 231 428Fuel use in 2015–2017, energy (GRI 302-1)
petajoules 2017 2016 2015
Natural gas 246.1 247.6 272.0
Nuclear fuel 83.8 91.1 90.5
Coal 39.0 40.6 38.8
Waste-derived fuel, fossil 7.6 3.6 1.0
Peat 1.9 1.8 1.4
Other fossil fuels 0.3 0.6 0.8
Non-renewable fuels total 378.8 385.4 404.4
Biofuels 11.2 10.2 11.4
Waste-derived fuel, renewable 4.4 2.5 1.7
Renewable fuels total 15.6 12.7 13.1
Fuels total  394.4 398.1 417.5
 
Fuel use in 2015–2017, mass/volume (GRI 301-1)
 2017 2016 2015
Non-renewable fuels
Natural gas, million m37,151 6,710 8,023
Coal, 1,000 t 1,999 2,208 2,062
Waste-derived fuel, fossil, 1,000 t 751 344 97
Peat, 1,000 t 190 178 135
Fuel oil, 1,000 t 10 21 20
Nuclear fuel, t 23 20 22
Renewable fuelsBiomass fuels, 1,000 t 1,142 1,041 1,126
Biogas, million m
33 3 1
Waste-derived fuel, renewable, 1,000 t 428 225 198
 Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility38
Environmental  
responsibilityImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Circular  
economy
Environmental  
responsibility
Challenges for rapidly growing major cities and growth centres include not only the management of 
emissions but also growth in waste volumes  . Fortum’s goal is to offer expert solutions and sustainable 
circular economy services for cities  . Circular economy
By circular economy we mean that materials are utilised as efficiently as possible and hazardous 
materials are removed from circulation  . We also recover by-products and wastes generated in energy 
production whenever possible  . 
Our circular economy business has grown in the Nordic countries  . We acquired Turebergs Recycling 
AB at the end of 2016  . The business receives and processes ash and slag and recovers purified materials 
for use in infrastructure construction materials  . An important part of the business is the separation of 
metals for reuse  . The operation is concentrated mainly in the Stockholm area  .
We completed the restructuring of the Hafslund business ownership at the beginning of August 
2017  . The City of Oslo’s waste-to-energy plant Klemetsrud, which is the largest energy recovery plant in 
Norway, and the Haraldrud heat plant, which also has a waste incineration boiler, were transferred to Fortum’s ownership through the transaction  . 
Waste management services
Reliable waste management and resource efficiency are important in a society based on sustainability  . 
Fortum’s aim is to promote the transition towards a more extensive circular economy  . We offer waste 
management services for customers in the Nordic countries and Lithuania  . 
In 2017 , we received a total of approximately 1  .2 million tonnes of non-hazardous waste from our 
customers; contaminated soil accounted for 212,000 tonnes of that amount and ash 301,000 tonnes  . We 
also received about 640,000 tonnes of hazardous waste from our customers; contaminated soil accounted for 88,000 tonnes of that amount and ash 88,000 tonnes  . As much of the waste stream as possible is 
recycled, recovered or reused  . Waste that is unsuitable for recycling or reuse as a material is incinerated 
in our waste-to-energy plants  . This reduces the use of virgin fossil or renewable fuels in electricity and 
heat production  . Waste that is unsuitable for recovery is disposed of at landfilling sites  . 
Hazardous waste: 644 kt  Received wasteNon-hazardous waste: 1,168 kt SocietyRecovery of materials: 646 kt (ash, plastic, oil, metal, others)Energy recovery: 1,211 kt Final disposal: 487 kt Received and processed waste from customers in 2017
Received and processed waste from customers in 2017 1)
kilotonnes, 1,000 t Finland Sweden Denmark Norway Lithuania Total
Received waste from customers
 Non-hazardous waste 350 383 155 280 1,168
 Hazardous waste 185 222 237 644
Recovery and disposal
 Recovery of materials 2)252 335 33 23 4 646
 Energy recovery (waste incineration) 401 172 202 155 280 1,211
 Final disposal 2)240 126 11 28 82 487
1) Fortum Oslo Varme’s (formerly Hafslund’s) operations in Norway are included in all figures from 1 August 2017. 
2) Includes received waste from customers and also ash from waste incineration Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility39
Environmental  
responsibilityImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Circular  
economy
Environmental  
responsibility
Recovery of materials
Various types of waste can be reused as raw materials  . Of the waste 
received from our customers in 2017 , we recovered as materials 
about 650,000 tonnes; environmental construction materials accounted for about 362,000 tonnes of that amount, recoverable 
ash accounted for about 159,000 tonnes, and processed raw 
materials and products about 80,000 tonnes  . The material recovery 
rate of the waste was 57%  . In addition, about 226,000 tonnes 
of recoverable materials originated at Fortumʼs own power and heat plants  .
We are continuously developing activities that increase 
 
the proportion of waste materials kept in circulation:
• We refine new plastic out of waste plastic received from 
customers .  
• We pick up and process our customers’ waste oils to be refined 
and reused as industrial lubricants  .
• We recycle scrap metals generated in the maintenance activities 
of our power plants and other facilities  . We also recover 
and separate metals from customers’ municipal waste and boiler slag  . 
• We process ash and slag, sand, sludge, dredging masses and slurries from energy production and other industries for reuse in 
various types of environmental construction and earthwork  .
The Sustainable Development Forum 
of Finnish Energy selected Fortum’s Circular Economy Village project as the Climate Deed of the 2017. Municipal waste is recycled at the Circular Economy Village in Riihimäki.Hazardous waste treatment
We take hazardous waste out of circulation in a sustainable manner 
and we clean the hazardous substances from materials that end up 
in recycling by offering solutions to treat hazardous waste while also producing clean energy and ensuring a safe final disposal  . 
High-temperature incineration ensures the best available solution for the destruction of hazardous substances  .
We have three high-temperature incineration plants: in 
Riihimäki, Finland; Kumla, Sweden; and Nyborg, Denmark  . 
At these facilities, 353,000 tonnes of hazardous waste and 
390,000 tonnes of non-hazardous waste were incinerated in 2017 , 
producing electricity and district heating for the surrounding areas  .
Contaminated soil 
In 2017 , we received and treated about 300,000 tonnes of 
contaminated soil from our customers  . We directed metal, rocks, 
concrete and wood, sieved from the soil for reuse as raw materials  . 
Soil that is suitable for environmental construction is used at our own construction sites and industrial waste reception centres  . In 
addition, we treated about 140,000 tonnes of contaminated soil at 
customer sites  . 
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY PRODUCTION Waste and by-products 
Ash is a by-product of the use of fuels in power and heat production, 
and gypsum and other desulphurisation products are by-products 
of flue-gas desulphurisation  . Ash and desulphurisation products 
account for a more than 90% share, on average, of the by-products 
and waste from our energy production  . 
The maintenance of power and heat plants generates scrap 
metal and other conventional industrial waste and, to a smaller 
extent, waste oil and other hazardous waste  . We aim for the highest 
possible utilisation and recovery of by-products and waste  . The 
waste management service providers we use are properly licensed and reliable waste management companies  . 
In addition to conventional industrial waste, the Loviisa nuclear 
power plant also generates radioactive waste, which we treat in accordance with the requirements of Finnish nuclear energy 
legislation  . The volume of radioactive waste generated is small, but 
special solutions are needed in their treatment and final disposal  . 
The total volume of by-products and waste generated at Fortum’s 
power and heat plants in 2017 was about 850,000 (2016: 735,000) 
tonnes  . Of this volume, 45% was recycled or reused  . Alongside the 
growth of our circular economy business, the use of waste-derived fuels has increased and, consequently, the volume of by-products  .
Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility40
Environmental  
responsibilityImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Circular  
economy
Environmental  
responsibility
Ash and gypsum 
Ash is created in the combustion of all solid fuels  . About 70% of 
the ash from our plants operating in Europe is utilised as a raw 
material, e  .g . for the construction industry, road construction and 
soil improvement, and as backfill  . Ash from the power plants in 
Russia is stored in ash basins, because there is no demand for wet ash sludge in Russia  . 
Coal-fired power plants generate either a wet or semi-dry 
desulphurisation by-product  . Gypsum created as a by-product in 
the wet desulphurisation process at the Meri-Pori power plant in 
Finland is suitable for use as raw material for the construction 
industry  . In 2017 , 100% (2016: 100%) of the gypsum was utilised  . 
The desulphurisation product created at the Suomenoja power plant is not suitable for utilisation  . 
In 2017 , about 810,000 (2016: 695,000) tonnes of ash, 4,000 
(2016: 8,500) tonnes of gypsum, and 12,800 (2016: 12,700) tonnes of the other desulphurisation product were generated  . The increase 
in the volume of ash was due to the increased use of waste-derived 
fuels  . The decrease in the volume of gypsum was due to the 
reduction in condensing power production in Finland  . About 40% 
of the ash was generated at Russian plants, 21% in Poland and 10% 
in Finland  . The ash recycling rate was 47% (2016: 37%)
By-products that cannot be utilised are transported to the 
appropriate final disposal at landfilling sites  . In 2017 , about 
446,000 (2016: 453,000) tonnes of by-products were transported for 
landfilling, or in Russia for ash basins  . 
The reported volumes of ash and gypsum from our European 
power plants are based on the weighing of the truckloads  . Ash 
volumes at our Russian power plants are calculated on the basis of 
the ash content of the coal  . 
 Ash and gypsum handling in 2015–2017 (GRI 306-2)
t 2017 2016 2015
Ash utilisation 377,000 255,000 189,000
Ash disposal 433,000 440,000 381,000
Gypsum utilisation 4,000 8,500 2,300
Gypsum disposal 0 0 0
 
Radioactive waste
At the Loviisa nuclear power plant, low-level radioactive 
maintenance waste is disposed in Loviisaʼs repository  . In 2017 , 
19 .0 (2016: 13  .9) tonnes of low-level radioactive waste went into 
final disposal  . Intermediate-level radioactive liquid is generated 
mainly from spent ion exchange resins and wastewater from the 
controlled area  . Liquid waste is processed into solid form at the 
solidification plant for liquid radioactive waste before final disposal 
in Loviisaʼs repository  . 
High-level spent nuclear fuel is stored in an interim storage at 
the Loviisa power plant site  . In 2017 , 23  .4 (2016: 19  .6) tonnes of 
spent nuclear fuel was removed from Loviisa power plant’s reactors  . 
2 .9 (2016: 2  .5) g/MWh of spent fuel was generated per produced 
energy unit  . Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima have established 
Posiva Oy to handle the technical implementation of the final disposal of the spent fuel, and final disposal is scheduled to begin 
at Olkiluoto in Eurajoki in the first half of the 2020s  .
Other waste
Other, conventional waste generated during the operation and 
maintenance of power and heat plants is sorted, and waste that 
can be recycled, such as metal, is sent for further processing  . 
Hazardous waste is delivered to licensed hazardous waste 
treatment facilities  . 
The power and heat plants generated a total of about 34,200 
(2016: 29,400) tonnes of other waste, approximately 3,200 (2016: 2,700) tonnes of which was hazardous waste  . In addition, about 
500 tonnes of contaminated soil was removed for disposal in Finland  . The reported volumes of other waste are based mainly on 
the information provided by the waste management companies  .Waste handling in energy production plants  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 306-2)
t 2017 2016 2015
Material recovery of  
non-hazardous waste 3,100 5,500 * 8,000
Energy recovery of non-hazardous 
waste 300 300 -
Final disposal of non-hazardous waste 27,500 20,900 17,400
Material recovery of hazardous waste 200 200 90
Energy recovery of hazardous 
waste 800 300 -
Disposal of hazardous waste 2,200 2,300 1,700
Total 34,200 29,400 * 27,200
* Figure revised
 
Material recovery from demolition project  
of the power plant
Fortum decided on the demolition of the Inkoo condensation power 
plant in the end of 2016, and the demolition work started in spring 
2017  . The Inkoo demolition project is one of the biggest demolition 
projects in Finnish industrial history  . Fortum’s recycling and waste 
solutions is responsible for the demolition work  . In 2017 , a total 
of about 9,200 tonnes of waste was generated in the demolition 
project of the Inkoo power plant, and about 1,000 tonnes of it 
was hazardous waste  . About 90% of the dismantled waste was 
recovered  . In addition, about 200 tonnes of contaminated soil 
was removed  . 
NUCLEAR WASTE MANAGEMENT
FINAL DISPOSAL OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUELSocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility41
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into airSustainable  
energy production Biodiversity
Environmental  
responsibility
The degradation of biodiversity is one of the biggest environmental 
problems globally  . We need to know our impacts and dependencies 
on biodiversity and ecosystem services to be able to assess the related risks and opportunities  .
Our impacts on biodiversity
Fortum’s impacts on biodiversity are primarily related to our 
hydropower production operations in Finland and Sweden  . 
Hydropower construction and the related water regulation alter the 
conditions in water systems and thus impact the diversity of the 
aquatic habitat and, in particular, the fish population  . Emissions 
from fossil fuel-based energy production may decrease local 
biodiversity, especially in Russia  . Indirect impacts may be caused 
by, for example, large-scale procurement of biomass and other fuels  . However, our production of CO
2-free energy replaces fossil 
fuel-based energy production and thus mitigates climate change, which is globally one of the greatest threats to biodiversity  .
Fortum’s biodiversity engagement
In 2017 we updated Fortum ʼs Biodiversity Manual , which defines 
Fortum’s approach in biodiversity management  . According to the 
manual, biodiversity issues are systematically considered as part of our environmental management processes and our operations 
throughout Fortum  . The manual contains specific instructions for 
biodiversity issues in current operations, new projects, the supply chain as well as for reporting and communication  .
Sustainable use of biomass fuels has been actively debated in 
recent years  . Fortum’s position is that EU-wide, harmonised and 
binding sustainability criteria for all bioenergy is needed  . The 
EU Commission’s proposal to extend the existing sustainability 
criteria for bioliquids to cover also solid biomass and biogas is 
in line with Fortum’s position  . The proposal is included in the 
EU Commission’s legislative “Smart and Clean Energy Package” published on 30 November 2016  . Legislation is expected to be 
finalised in 2018  .Biodiversity
Fortum is a member of the Bettercoal initiative and uses the 
Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the coal supply chain  . Biodiversity aspects related to coal mining are 
covered in Bettercoal assessments  . 
We aim to improve biodiversity in connection with our 
operations, carry out biodiversity-related projects and cooperate 
with stakeholders in projects  . We assess the impacts of our 
new projects  . We offset and reduce the impacts of hydropower 
production on biodiversity  . We carried our obligatory fish care 
measures valued at EUR 1  .9 million and several types of voluntary 
environmental projects valued at EUR 1  .5 million  . 
Habitat restoration and other projects
Most of our habitat restorations and other projects improving biodiversity are related to hydropower production  . Additional 
information about our hydropower-related projects supporting biodiversity is available 
on our website  .
River strategies focus on environmentally 
effective solutions 
Based on the earlier mapping of valuable riverine biodiversity areas 
in 2015, by the end of 2017 we finalised our river strategies for all 
of the rivers where we operate hydropower plants  . The aim of these 
river-tailored strategies is to balance the increasing need for flexible 
hydropower and the needed case-by-case selected environmental 
improvements by focusing environmental actions on valuable species and habitats in the most important areas environmentally  . 
We started implementing the strategies in 2017 with the licensing of the first projects  . 
Restoring river stretches by tearing down dams
In Sweden, we tore down the Acksjön dam in a tributary of the River Klarälven  . The operation was successfully carried out in 
cooperation with local stakeholders  . The tearing down resulted in 
a new 100 m long stretch of river and the removal of a migration barrier that will benefit biodiversity  . A similar case is the Kolsjön 
dam  . An application for removal of the Kolsjön dam has been 
submitted to the environmental court  . 
In Sweden, we have mapped out and prioritised old dams that 
have low value for hydropower production, but have environmental impacts on riverine ecosystems  . The aim is to restore habitats and 
river continuum in places with biodiversity benefits  .
Restoring fish habitat 
At the River Dalälven in Sweden, we restored a 180 m-long river 
stretch in 2017  . The aim was to increase possibilities for sea trout to 
spawn in the River Dalälven  . Gravel and boulders were added to the 
river  . We carried out the restoration in cooperation with the local 
fishing organisation in Älvskarleby  . The restoration was part of the 
"Biodiversity in lower Dalälven" project, with the goal to enhance 
fish spawning of migratory fish in the River Dalälven  . The project, 
a cooperative effort between regional authorities and another hydropower company, was finalised in 2017  .
Monitoring of the River Vuoksi in Finland gave positive 
results regarding fish abundance at previously restored riverine habitats upstream of the Imatra hydropower plant  . Together 
with our cooperation partners, the City of Imatra and regional environmental authorities, the restored areas were further amended by morphological modifications in November 2017  .
Protection of red listed species
We improved the habitat of Myrstarr (Carex heleonastes),  a rare 
aquatic plant species growing downstream of the Laforsen dam in the River Ljusnan in Sweden  . The plant habitat was cleared from 
bushes and other vegetation that would suppress the Carex plants  . 
The conditions need to be maintained to safeguard the plant at 
 
the site .Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility42
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into airSustainable  
energy production Biodiversity
Environmental  
responsibility
Biomass fuels actions
Forest certification schemes will continue to play a strong role in 
verifying the sustainability of wood-based biomass  . Certified wood-
based biomass fuel originates from sustainably managed forests in 
which special attention is paid to biodiversity  . We annually collect 
data on the volume of certified wood-based biomass fuel used in our power plants in Finland, Sweden, Poland and the Baltics  . Our 
goal is that 80% of all wood-based biomass fuel we use is verified by a third party by the end of 2020  . We aim to obtain a Chain of 
Custody certificate for our wood-based biomass fuel purchasing by 
the end of 2018  .
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF HYDROPOWER PRODUCTION
We established a private 
nature conservation area in Muhos as a 100th anniversary gift to Finland.
Case | Fish trap and transport facility for Montta power plant  
in the River Oulujoki, Finland
A trap and transport facility for fish was completed in late August in 
conjunction with the Montta hydropower plant on the River Oulujoki. We use the trap and transfer facility to capture salmon and trout as they migrate upstream; it enables the fish to be efficiently and safely transported around the migration barriers. The facility correspond to the lower portion of a fishway. The fish swimming into the facility can be transferred into a 
tanker truck and transported across several power plant dams to tributaries 
upstream for spawning. Based on experiences gained elsewhere, this results in significantly more broodfish in the spawning areas than if all the necessary fishways between the sea and the spawning areas were built. Fortum has good experiences with transporting landlocked salmon in Sweden on the River Klarälven, which is harnessed for hydropower production. 
From the new trap and transport facility, fish can also be transferred into 
reservoirs for fishing, or their roe that has gone through natural selection can be taken to the Montta fish farm where Fortum produces salmon and sea trout for stocking in the River Oulujoki.
The trap and transport facility is a joint project by Fortum, the Muhos, 
Utajärvi and Vaala municipalities, the North Ostrobothnia ELY Centre, 
and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to revitalise salmon and 
trout in the River Oulujoki. The facility has special national significance because it will gain experiences for use in migrating fish projects on other constructed  rivers. 
The trap and transport facility is part of the overall conservation of 
the fish population in the River Oulujoki. Fish conservation is based on the stocking of migrating fish, strengthening the natural life cycle, and developing the quality of the stock fish. In recent years, Fortum has invested over EUR 5.5 million in the modernisation of the Montta fish farm and the construction of the trap and transport facility.Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility43
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationWater  
use BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Emissions  
into air
Environmental  
responsibility
Fortum’s activities cause various emissions into air  . Greenhouse 
gases that accelerate global climate change are generated primarily 
from the use of fossil fuels and the combustion of waste of a 
fossil origin  . 
Flue-gas emissions causing local environmental and health 
effects are generated from all incineration  . Nitrogen oxides are 
generated from the nitrogen contained in the fuel and in the 
combustion air  . Sulphur dioxide, in turn, is generated from the 
sulphur that is an impurity in, e  .g ., coal, peat and oil  . Particle 
emissions are fine-grained ash generated primarily in the 
combustion of solid fuels and waste  . Depending on the origin of the 
fuel and waste, the particles contain various heavy metals  .
Improving air quality
It is possible to decrease nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and 
particle emissions through fuel selections, combustion technology, 
and various flue-gas cleaning technologies  . Fortum has world-
class know-how in combustion technology, and we have delivered 
combustion technology solutions to reduce nitrogen oxide 
emissions to many other power utilities  . In 2017 , we implemented 
nitrogen oxides reduction projects in Poland, and bio-oil burner 
modification projects in Sweden  . 
Our Meri-Pori and Suomenoja power plants are equipped with 
a desulphurisation plant  . Our waste incineration plants located in 
Riihimäki, Finland; Kumla, Sweden; Nyborg, Denmark; and Oslo, Norway, are equipped with efficient flue-gas cleaning systems  . 
Harmful emissions to air are minimised with various filters and 
scrubbers selected on the basis of the waste to be incinerated  .
Stricter standards
The EU has set very strict limits for flue-gas emissions; meeting 
the requirements necessitates the use of best available technology 
(BAT)  . Our nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and particle emissions 
have, in fact, decreased significantly in our European production Emissions into air 
over the past decades  . Emissions limits became even stricter when 
the Industrial Emissions Directive came into force in 2016  . 
All Fortum power plants operate in compliance with the terms 
of their environmental permits, and the plants meet the new emissions requirements, for the most part  . Investments in flue-
gas cleaning process and systems will be made in 2018–2019 at the Suomenoja power plant in Finland and the Rejtana heat plant 
in Poland  . 
At Russian power plants, emissions are limited in accordance 
with Russian legislation  . The new legislation currently being 
drafted in Russia will bring stricter emissions standards in 
the future  . 
Flue-gas emissions
Our sulphur dioxide (SO 2) emissions were 18,800 (2016: 22,500) 
tonnes, nitrogen oxide (NO x) emissions 27 ,500 (2016: 26,000) 
tonnes and particle emissions 15,800 (2016: 16,800) tonnes  . 77% 
(2016: 81%) of sulphur dioxide, 81% (2016: 82%) of nitrogen oxide and 98% (2016: 98%) of particle emissions originated from 
Russian operations  . In 2017 , the most significant source of particle 
emissions, 9,200 (2016: 9,100) tonnes, was the Argayash CHP power 
plant in Russia  . 
The reporting of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and 
particle emissions from our European power plants is based on 
continuous measurement  . Other flue-gas emissions data is based 
on discontinuous measurements or are calculated using fuel 
consumption data and specific emission factors  . Specific emission 
factors are based on measurements taken at regular intervals, on information from the equipment supplier, or on regulatory norms  .
Carbon dioxide emissions are reported in the section 
 
Greenhouse gas emissions  .Flue-gas emissions in 2015–2017 (GRI 305-7)
 2017 2016 2015
SO2, t 18,800 22,500 19,900
NO X, t 27,500 26,000 26,800
Particles, t 15,800 16,800 17,800
HCl, t 960 1,180
Lead, kg 3,990 4,140
Mercury, kg 118 150 105
Cadmium, kg 96 116
Dioxins, mg 430 504Social  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility44
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Water  
use
Environmental  
responsibility
Water use
Fortum uses large volumes of water at various types of power plants 
and in district heating networks  .
Risks and opportunities related to water use
Risks related to Fortum’s water availability are relatively small and 
local, according to our assessments  . The majority of our water 
withdrawal volume is seawater for the cooling of power plants  . In 
most cases we don’t consume water; it is returned into the same 
water system from which it was taken  . India is the only country, 
where we operate in areas of high or extremely high water risk; our 
water use in India is low  . Within the policy framework, we identify 
the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive in 
Sweden as a potential risk to hydropower production  .
The Argayash CHP power plant in Russia takes water from 
a nearby lake, the level of which is regulated by pumping water 
from another lake  . The amount of additional water pumped was 
insufficient until 2017 , and the water surface level was reduced 
significantly  . New permit limits, effective in 2017 and 2018, should 
ensure water adequacy  . Fortum also has an ongoing investment 
project to increase the recycling of water  . When the investment 
is completed part of the purified water can be returned to the 
production cycle  . This will allow to take less water from the lake  . 
There are currently temporary water loading permit limits 
in force at the Russian Chelyabinsk CHP-2 and CHP-3 and the 
Argayash CHP power plants  . These power plants have agreed 
with the authorities on action plan that aims to reduce the load on waterways  . 
Improving the efficiency of water use and reducing leaks in the 
district heating network generate cost savings for us  . We monitor 
the water use of our power plants, and we implement measures 
that improve water use efficiency when needed  . With good water 
use management in hydropower production, we can optimize our 
production and control the impacts to the environment and to 
stakeholders, impacts like flooding and droughts  .In our operations we are preparing for changes in water 
availability in the future as the climate changes  . The preparation 
is related to, for example, production planning, dam safety, investment projects, the rise in the cooling water temperature, 
and flood protection  . In hydropower production planning we are 
preparing for climate change by taking into consideration changes 
in precipitation and temperature and extreme weather phenomena  . 
We are also monitoring the need for adjustments to regulation 
permits with changes in seasonal variation; one permit change is 
currently under way in preparation for autumn flooding  .
The Loviisa nuclear power plant is prepared for nature’s extreme 
phenomena and possible oil spill due to an accident at sea with a 
seawater-independent back-up cooling system including air-cooled 
cooling towers  .
Our forms of water use
The majority of Fortum’s power and heat production capacity is 
located in the Nordic countries, Russia and Poland  . The Baltic Sea 
and local fresh water systems are the most important water sources for our plants  . Municipal tap water is used mainly at CHP plants in 
major cities .
We withdrew 2,120 (2016: 2,140) million m
3 of water in 2017  . 
Seawater accounted for about 72% of this amount  . Our water withdrawal includes 8 million m3 of water delivered to customers  . 
The reported water withdrawal and water use volumes are based on measurements and on calculations of water consumption .  
Cooling water
Condensing power production requires large volumes of cooling 
water  . Cooling water accounts over 90% of our water withdrawal  . 
Fortum has two condensing power plants in Finland: the 
Loviisa nuclear power plant and the Meri-Pori power plant  . Both 
are located in coastal areas and use direct seawater cooling  . The 
Loviisa nuclear power plant withdrew and discharged back into the sea 1,372 million m
3 of cooling water in 2017  . No water is consumed 
in the process and the water withdrawn is discharged back into the sea  . The only change is an approximately 10 °C increase in the 
temperature of the cooling water  . Additionally, in Russia, Fortum 
has the Nyagan condensing power plant, which uses river water 
for cooling  . 
Condensing power is occasionally produced also at our CHP 
plants  . In most cases, the cooling water is withdrawn from a local 
water system, such as a river or lake  . In Russia and Poland, cooling 
towers are used, so some of the cooling water evaporates into the atmosphere  .Water withdrawal in production operations  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 303-1)
million m32017 2016 2015
Seawater 1,519 1,533 1,487
Fresh surface water 598 605 * 643 **
of which at fish farms 43 33 -
Tap water 2 2 4
Groundwater 0.1 0.1 0.2
Other source 0.3 0.2 4.4
Total 2,120 2,140 *2,138 **
* Figure revised
** Excluding water volumes used for fish farmingWater use in production operations in 2015–2017 
(GRI 303-1)
million m32017 2016 2015
Cooling water 1,994 2,035 * 2,060
Process and auxiliary water 115 93 * 64 **
of which at fish farms 43 33 -
Make-up water for district heat 
network 11 12 14
Water recycling 13 13 12
* Figure revised
** Excluding water volumes used for fish farmingSocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility45
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyEnvironmental non-
compliances and incidentsClimate change  
mitigationEmissions  
into air BiodiversitySustainable  
energy production Water  
use
Environmental  
responsibility
District heating network
Fortum is a major supplier of district heating in Finland, Norway, 
Poland, Russia and the Baltic countries  . Fortum has a total of about 
3,400 kilometres of district heat pipes in these countries  . Water is 
used as the heat transfer media in district heating  . Some water is 
lost through leaks that occur in the pipes, so occasionally water 
must be added to the district heating network  .
Process water 
A thermal power plant needs water in the water-steam cycle when 
electricity is generated with a steam turbine  . Because of leaks in 
the pipes, occasionally water must be added to the water-steam 
cycle  . Water is also needed in power plant auxiliary processes, for 
example in flue-gas cleaning with wet scrubber technology, and in radioactive waste handling and storage at nuclear power plants  .
Hydropower production and fish farming
We produce hydropower from water flowing in rivers in Finland 
and Sweden  . The power plants are typically located in big rivers 
that have no problems with regards to water supply  . Water is not 
consumed in our hydropower production, it is not typically directed to another water system, and the water properties are not altered  . 
However, the water system is often regulated for hydropower 
production, and the regulation changes the water flow and level 
patterns compared to their natural state  . 
We have precise knowledge of the water situation in those 
waterways where we use hydropower, and we use real-time 
hydrological forecasts in production planning  . We don’t report river 
discharges as a hydropower-related water withdrawal  . 
We farm and stock fish to offset the impacts of hydropower 
production  . The majority of the fresh water withdrawn for fish 
farming is returned into the bodies of water with only a slight change in its properties  . We have included water use at the fish 
farms in water volumes since 2016  . 
Our water use in water risk areas
According to the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, the solar 
power plants in India are the only of our power plants located in high to extremely high risk (level 3–5) areas in terms of water 
risk . The Amrit (5 MW) and the Kapeli (10 MW) power plants use 
groundwater we have purchased, and the Bhadla (70 MW) plant 
uses surface water  . Water for the Bhadla plant is withdrawn from 
the channel shared by several actors in the solar park area  . Fortum 
gets a fixed amount of its water discharge  . The Pavagada (100 MW) 
plant completed at the end of 2017 has not yet used water in 2017  . 
Water is used to clean the solar panels at our solar power plants 
in India  . India’s share of our water use in 2017 was about 6,000 
(2016: 4,000) m3, i .e . only 0  .0003% of our total water withdrawal  . 
While the water volumes are small, we aim to increase the efficiency 
of our water use in India  . We have set a target in the Indian 
solar power production environmental management system to 
discontinue the use of water for cleaning panels at our current solar 
power plants by 2020  . At the Amrit solar power plant, we have built 
an absorption basin to collect and absorb rainwater  . By improving 
the efficiency of the cleaning processes, water use at the Amrit and Kapeli power plants decreased by 11% in 2017  . We are also 
developing waterless cleaning methods for solar panels  . We will 
start a waterless cleaning pilot project in the first part of 2018  .
Wastewater
Wastewater generated at our power plants is either treated at the power plant’s own wastewater treatment plant and discharged into 
a water system or it is piped to a municipal wastewater system for 
further processing  . In Russia, the wet method is used to pump ash 
from power plants into ash ponds  . Part of the water from the ponds 
is recycled back to the power plant and part is released into a water system after sedimentation  . 
Wastewater contains solids and nutrients, like nitrogen and 
phosphor, and heavy metals  . Wastewater effluents can impact 
local water quality as well as the nutrient and oxygen balance of the water system  . Our plants generated a total of 64 (2016: 56) million 
m
3 of wastewater, of which 97% was released into the environment 
after being treated and 3% was piped to municipal wastewater treatment plants  .  
About 66% of the wastewater is discharged water from fish 
farms  . Discharged water is purified and its nutrient content is monitored in line with permit conditions  . The sludge water 
separated from the process water at the Montta fish farm in Finland has been piped to a municipal wastewater treatment plant since 
2016, which has reduced the nutrient load on the water system  .
About 1  .0 (2016: 1  .3) tonnes of oil was released into water 
systems through wastewater  .
The thermal load discharged into water systems with cooling 
water was 17 (2016: 17) TWh  . The Loviisa nuclear power plant’s 
share of this was 16 TWh  . Temperature measurements indicate that 
the cooling water has increased the temperature of surface water by 
1–2 °C within a 1–2 kilometre radius from the discharge point  . The 
reported wastewater is based on measurements and calculations  .
NURES products for purifying radioactive waters
Initially developed for the needs of the Loviisa nuclear power plant, 
the NURES products are a unique solution for purifying radioactive 
waters  . A selective ion exchange material purifies liquid waste 
more efficiently than any other alternative on the market  . In 2017 , 
we continued product deliveries globally, and, in addition to ion exchange materials, we supplied a radioactive liquid purification system to customers in Finland and Germany  .Wastewater emissions by recipient in 2015–2017 
(GRI 306-1)
million m32017 2016 2015
Sea 0.7 0.7 * 0.4 **
Fresh surface water 62 54 * 23 **
of which from fish farms 43 33 -
Municipal sewage  1.7 1.3 1.3
Other recipient 0.1 0.1 0.5
Total 64 56 * 25 **
* Figure revised
** Excluding water volumes used for fish farmingSocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility46
Environmental  
responsibilityCircular  
economyImproving  
energy efficiencyClimate change  
mitigationWater  
useEmissions  
into air 
BiodiversitySustainable  
energy productionEnvironmental non-compliances and incidents
Environmental  
responsibility
At the Group level, we monitor the number of major EHS incidents, 
which, in part, reflects the quality of environmental management  . 
In 2017 , there were 20 (2016: 22) major EHS incidents, and 10 (2016: 12) of these were significant environmental incidents  . Significant 
environmental incidents include spills of over 100 litres into the 
environment, significant environmental permit violations, and 
other environmental non-compliances that have a significant 
impact on environment  . 
Spills and leaks into the environment
In 2017 , there were 8 (2016: 1) spills and leaks of more than 
100 litres into the environment, all in the Nordic countries  . In 
Finland, there were four incidents of refrigerant leakage at the Suomenoja heat pump plant  . Also in Finland, there was leakage 
from a container of chemical waste to be transport to Riihimäki 
and a spill involving a tank of lubrication oil used at the waste-to-
energy plant  . In Sweden, a chemical leak occurred at the waste-
to-energy plant in conjunction with the emptying of the scrubber  . 
Additionally, a diesel spill took place during a transport related to the hydropower production investment project in Sweden  . The 
incidents have been investigated to find corrective measures  . The 
incidents did not have significant environmental impacts  .
Significant environmental permit violations 
There were two (2016: 11) environmental permit violations in 2017 , 
one of them in Russia and the other in Denmark  . At the Nyagan 
GRES power plant in Russia, the permit limit for the sanitary 
wastewater emissions was exceeded  . The process wastewater 
limit was exceeded at the waste-to-energy plant in Denmark  . The 
incidents have been investigated to find corrective measures  .
Environmental enquiries and grievances
Power plants receive environmental enquiries and other contacts 
every year, and they are mainly handled locally  . The aim is to 
communicate in advance about upcoming measures that have Environmental non-compliances and incidents
20
Major EHS incidents 
Target: ≤23
possible environmental impacts, for example, through local media 
and at public events  . 
Fortum’s website also has a grievance channel that our 
stakeholders can use to report problems possibly caused by our 
operations  . No new environment-related grievances were reported 
to us through this channel in 2017  .Fines
In 2017 , Fortum paid fines totalling RUB 8,000 (EUR 121) for 
permit violations involving exceeding the sanitary wastewater 
emission limits  .
BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
OCCUPATIONAL AND OPERATIONAL SAFETYEnvironmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility47
Social  
responsibilitySocial responsibility
Fortum impacts the daily lives of millions of people through its 
businesses  . Fortum’s social responsibility emphasises operational 
and occupational safety, employee wellbeing, the secure energy supply for customers, creating sustainable solutions for cities, as well as ethical business operations and compliance with 
regulations  . We engage in an active dialogue with different 
stakeholder groups and we strive to find a balance between their various expectations  .Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility48
Social  
responsibilitySocial impacts 
We want to offer a safe workplace for our employees and for the contractors and service providers who 
work at our power plants  . We promote operational and occupational safety and wellbeing in the work 
community, which are prerequisites for efficient and interruption-free production  . Our innovations 
and the secure supply of power and heat for customers support the development of society and increase wellbeing  . We offer sustainable city solutions that promote a circular economy  .
Ethical business practices and respecting internationally recognised human rights are the foundation 
of Fortum’s Code of Conduct  . We want to support responsible operations in Fortum’s supply chain and 
in all our business relationships  . Fortum’s sustainability approach also includes being a good corporate 
citizen and taking care of the surrounding communities  .
Key figures for social responsibility 
Our key figures for social responsibility are presented in the table and graphs  .
BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCEKey figures for social responsibility 
 2017 2016 2015
CHP plant energy availability, % 96.1 97.4 96.4
Average number of employees 8,507 7,994 8,009
Number of employees, 31 December 8,785 8,108 7,835
Departure turnover, % 10.5 13.0 8.6
Female employees, % 32 29 29
Females in management, % 29 25 33
Sickness-related absences, % 2.2 * 2.3 * 2.4
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 1), own personnel 1.8 1.9 1.6
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 2), own personnel 1.2 1.0 1.1
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 2), contractors 4.2 3.0 2.7
Severe occupational accidents 3)1 5 -
Fatalities 0 0 0
OHSAS 18001 -certified opeartions in power and heat 
production, % of sales 98.4 99.9 99.9
Supplier audits, number 11 13 9
Support for society, EUR million 4.9 2.9 2.9
1) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
2) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours3) Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability and an accident that could have caused serious consequences
* Excluding DUON, Hafslund
2015 2016 2017 2018Combined injury frequency (LWIF),  
Fortum’s employees and contractors
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0 
 LWIF (Fortum’s employees and contractors)
 TargetNumber of employees by country, 31 December 2017
 Finland, 2,165
 Sweden, 968
 Norway, 654
 Russia, 3,494
 Poland, 827
 Other countries, 677Fortum’s support to society by target, % 
 Environment, 27
 Sports, 19
 Culture, 13
 Children and youth, 12
 Other, 29Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility49
Social  
responsibility 
Security of supply Corporate citizenship Safety and security Employees Product responsibility Human rights
Security of supply 
A functional society requires an uninterrupted and reliable supply of energy  . Fortum is committed 
to working for cleaner energy production  . Implementing our vision – For a cleaner world – requires a 
reliable supply of economically priced energy delivered to customers as we transition towards a low-
carbon energy system  . 
Hydropower balances the growing, but weather-dependent, fluctuating production of other 
renewable energy forms like solar and wind  . The flexibility of hydropower is needed to secure the 
functionality of the energy system and the power grid and to balance fluctuations in the price of 
electricity  . 
If a sufficient supply of hydropower is not available, then adjustable natural gas power production can 
be used to balance fluctuations in renewable energy production and to secure the supply of electricity  . 
With planned preventive maintenance and condition monitoring, we ensure that our power plants 
operate reliably to produce the electricity and heat customers need  . 
Power plant availability at a good level 
We measure the availability of our CHP and hydropower plants with an energy availability indicator  . 
Energy availability is calculated by dividing the power plant’s actual production in the period under review by the theoretical maximum production  . Planned maintenance outages are not included in 
the calculation  . If the outage at a CHP plant is longer than planned, it is considered a production 
interruption, which decreases the energy availability  . The energy availability of our CHP plants in 2017 
was, on average, 96  .1% (2016: 97  .4%); the target level was over 95  .0% . 
For hydropower plants, outages due to a failure and unplanned or prolonged outages decrease the 
availability factor only if they lead to spillage  . The energy availability of our hydropower plants was 
98 .2% (2016: 98  .7%)  . 
The load factor describing the availability of the Loviisa nuclear power plant is among the best in the 
world for pressurised water reactor power plants  . The Loviisa nuclear power plant’s load factor in 2017 
was 92  .7% (2016: 91  .1%) .
Interruptions in heat distribution 
Fortum has about 3,400 km of district heating networks in Finland, Norway, Poland, Russia and the Baltic countries  . The aim is to keep interruptions in district heat distribution as short as possible by 
carrying out planned and preventive refurbishment and maintenance activities  . 
Fortum sold the Polish gas distribution company DUON Dystrybucja S  .A . in summer 2017 , because 
gas distribution is outside Fortum’s core strategy  .96.1%
CHP plant energy availability
Target: > 95.0%Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility50
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Employees
Social  
responsibility
Employees
In 2017 , an average of 8,507 (2016: 7 ,994) employees worked at 
Fortum  . The highest number of employees was in Russia, 3,710 
(2016: 3,814) on average  . The average and the year-end total 
personnel figures include 200 employees who are not included in the other figures and tables presented in this report  . These 
individuals include the civil contractors working in the Consumer Solutions division in Poland, Sweden and Norway  .
Permanent employees accounted for 95  .2% (2016: 96  .1%) of the 
personnel  . Of these, the share of full-time employees was 98  .1% 
(2016: 98  .5%)  . 
During the year 734 (2016: 476) new employees joined Fortum, 
and 855 (2016: 968) employment relationships were terminated, 
206 of which by the employer  . The number of employment 
relationships terminated due to production and financial reasons 
was 77  . Departure turnover in 2017 was 10  .5% (2016: 13  .0%)  . 
Voluntary departure turnover was 5  .4% (2016: 5  .6%)  .
With the acquisition of Hafslund, 722 new employees joined 
Fortum  . Other acquisitions and outsourcings decreased the 
number of personnel by a total of 185 (2016: 248) people  . 
Contractor employees worked at Fortum sites for a total of 
approximately 1,249,000 (2016: 1,113,000) days during the year  . The 
figure is based on contractors’ hourly logs and on estimates made 
on the basis of job costs and average hourly rates  . The figure has 
been calculated on the basis of an 8-hour work day  .2013 2014 2015 2016 201710,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0Number of employees, 31 December
Workforce by employment contract and employment type, broken down by region and gender (GRI 102-8)
 Finland Sweden Norway Russia PolandOther 
countries Total
M F M F M F M F M F M F M F
Employment contract no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
Permanent 1,461 601 542 358 369 249 2,465 910 341 220 461 195 5,639 2,533
Fixed-term 64 39 31 36 11 12 52 67 23 65 5 8 186 227
Employment type 
(permanently employed) no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
Full-time 1,453 577 529 326 353 210 2,461 909 338 217 457 189 5,591 2,428
Part-time 8 24 13 32 16 39 4 1 3 3 4 6 48 105Personnel statistics from 2017, by country of operation 
  Finland Sweden Norway Russia PolandOther 
countries Total
Personnel at year-end 2,165 968 654 3,494 827 677 8,785
Male 1,525 558 381 2,517 490 467 5,938 
Female 640 410 273 977 337 210 2,847 
Personnel, average 2,147 834 282 3,710 863 672 8,507
Personnel expenses, 1,000 euros 183,533 75,311 30,658 79,339 20,429 33,361 422,632
Personnel expenses per person, 1,000 euros 85.5 90.3 108.5 21.4 23.7 49.6 50.0Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility51
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Employees
Social  
responsibility
Diversity and equal opportunity 
We promote equal treatment and opportunities in the recruiting, 
remuneration, development and career advancement of personnel, 
regardless of the employee’s race, religion, political views, gender, age, nationality, language, sexual orientation, marital status 
or disabilities  .
Fortum is a Top 200 company included in 2017 Equileap Gender 
Equality Global Ranking  . The assessment criteria are related to 
personnel’s gender division, equal pay, work-life balance and family 
leave, and principles supporting gender equality in e  .g . recruiting 
and career development  . 
The average age of our permanent employees was 43  .6 (2016: 
44 .2) years  . The share of employees over 50 years old was 29% 
(2016: 32%)  . Females accounted for 32% (2016: 29%) of our total 
personnel  . Females accounted for 29% (2016: 25%) of the Group- 
and division-level management  . At the end of 2017 , the Board of 
Directors comprised seven members, three of them, including the Chairman, were women .  
Any form of harassment is forbidden and addressed 
immediately  . In Finland, Sweden, and India, for example, there 
are separate guidelines in place for workplace harassment and discrimination  . There were no incidents of discrimination reported 
in 2017  .
Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover (GRI 401-1)
 Finland Sweden Norway Russia PolandOther 
countries
New employee hires M F M F M F M F M F M F
age group no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
below 30 30 7 28 16 12 10 70 35 1 11 9 5 
30–50 84 31 42 19 14 8 123 75 8 9 14 10 
over 50 9 4 7 4 0 0 13 20  0 0 4 2 
New recruits, % 8.4 7.0  14.2 10.9 7.0 7.2 8.4 14.3 2.6  9.1 5.9 8.7 
           
           
 Finland Sweden Norway Russia PolandOther 
countries
Employees leaving M F M F M F M F M F M F
age group no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
below 30 11 4 14 17 1 1 54 15 4 9 2 2
30–50 40 25 17 28 2 8 215 68 7 5 14 12
over 50 14 8 8 7 0 0 163 67 1 1 10 1
Departure turnover, % 4.4 6.2 7.2 14.5 0.8 3.6 17.5 16.5 3.5 6.8 5.6 7.7
          
           
 Finland Sweden Norway Russia PolandOther 
countries
Employees leaving, 
employeeʼs initiative M F M F M F M F M F M F
age group no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
below 30 10 4 12 17 1 1 24 6 4 9 2 2
30–50 40 21 15 22 2 8 85 34 7 5 9 12
over 50 10 4 5 3 0 0 50 14 1 0 3 0
Voluntary departure 
turnover, % 4.1 4.8 5.9 11.7 0.8 3.6 6.5 5.9 3.5 6.4 3.0 7.2
           
           
Service years of the permanent employees in 2015–2017, % 
 2017 2016 2015
0–5 y. 37 33 32
6–10 y. 20 21 23
11–15 y. 10 10 9
16–20 y. 10 10 9
21–26 y. 8 9 10
27–30 y. 7 8 9
31+ 7 8 8Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility52
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Employees
Social  
responsibility
Group and division-level management, by age and 
gender, persons (GRI 405-1)
Age group Male Female
under 30 0 0 
30–50 32 7 
over 50 19 14 
 
Equal remuneration
Salary levels at Fortum are compliant with established industry 
practices in each country, local legislation and labour market 
agreements  . We remunerate personnel for achievement of 
the strategic business targets and successful implementation 
of changes  . Remuneration is based on job grade levels, job 
performance and local job market practices  .
In the incentive scheme, the maximum amount of the short-
term variable remuneration is based on the individual’s job, and the 
amount of the final incentive pay is based on the job-based salary 
level and the achievement of the goals of the business unit and 
the individual  . For the reasons mentioned above, a male/female 
comparison of the short-term incentive pay is not expedient  . 
However, the global human resources data system and the 
harmonised job grade classification system enable the examination 
and reporting of pay equality for the base salary in all our operating 
countries  . Besides the centralised HR data management system, 
a separate, local, data system is also used in Russia, and therefore 
the data on Russia’s pay equality is reported separately  . With 
the corporate acquisitions made in 2017 , the companies merged with Fortum – and for which the job grade classification and the integration of the personnel system has just started – are not 
included in the figures  . 
Our reporting covers all personnel groups except individuals 
working in blue-collar positions  . A male/female comparison in 
this group is not done because of the small group sizes  . Blue-
collar workers accounted for about 32% of Fortum’s personnel  . In 
countries where the number of personnel is small, we have reported these countries collectively under “Other countries” so that the data are not identifiable  . The figures presented are not comparable 
with last yearʼs figures because the method of calculation has been changed  .
In our operating countries, total number of personnel included 
in the comparison was 3,091, of which 1,124 (36%) were female  . The base salaries of female employees in 2017 were, on average, 18% lower than the male base salaries  . When examining the 
differences by employee group and by country, the differences 
ranged between -1% to -16%  . 
In Russia, the difference between female and male salaries was 
-19% on average  . The total number of personnel included in the 
comparison was 2,202 .
Basic salary and service years of women compared to men (GRI 405-2) 1)
CountryDifference between basic salariesDifference between 
service years
All roles, %Operational 
specialists and 
managers, %Broad operational 
professionals and 
managers, %Tactical and strategic 
leaders and middle 
management, %Average service  
years, %
Finland -3 -3 -3 -4 0 
Sweden -2  -4  -3  -1 0 
Poland -7  -16  -4  N/A -5 
Other countries 2)-14 +8 -24 N/A +1 
1) Excluding Hafslund
2) Excluding RussiaPersonnel age distribution of permanent employees by age group, gender and personnel group (GRI 405-1)
 
Age 
groupFinland Sweden Norway Russia Poland Other countries Total
Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female
b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w b w
under 30 34 84 2 50 3 93 1 74 4 67 0 42 234 73 13 88 0 16 0 64 22 15 0 20 297 348 16 338
30–50 177 701 8350 25 244 1188 28 194 2163 817 657 137 423 62 117 1118 124 118 9106 1,233 2,031 158 1,348
over 50 121 344 3188 25 152 2 92 14 62 0 42 432 252 113 136 76 70 2 35 113 69 11 49 781 949 131 542
b = blue-collar, w = white-collarEnvironmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility53
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Employees
Social  
responsibility
Employee-employer relations 
Fortum’s business operations are developed and strengthened in 
good collaboration with employees  . We believe that the successful 
management of business is built on relationships of trust between 
management and employees and on the free flow of information  . 
Fortum respects employees’ freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining  . 
In our operating countries, freedom of association and 
collective bargaining are guaranteed by law  . The exception to 
this is India, which has not ratified the International Labour 
Organisation’s (ILO) Convention on the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining  . In India, we comply with the 
same practices as in other countries of operation, and we do not limit or prohibit the right to freedom of association  . 
We apply local collective bargaining agreements in compliance 
with the scope of each respective agreement in all our operating countries  . Collective bargaining agreements cover nearly 85% of 
Fortum’s employees in our biggest operating countries and range 
from 6% coverage in Latvia to about 100% in Finland, Sweden and 
Russia  . There are no collective bargaining agreements in Lithuania, 
Poland and India  . Employment contracts are based on local 
legislation and on the company’s human resources policy  .Fortum European Council 
Fortum European Council (FEC) is Fortum’s Europe-level 
cooperation function in which personnel and employer 
representatives meet  . FEC convenes, as a rule, once a year  . In 2017 , 
the Fortum European Council (FEC) held a meeting in Poland, 
and personnel representatives from Finland, Sweden, Poland, 
Estonia and Denmark participated  . The Council’s meeting focused 
on, among other topics, Fortum’s strategy, corporate culture, leadership, wellbeing and safety  . In addition to Fortum European 
Council meetings, local level meetings are held several times a year 
in different countries based on need  .
Restructuring situations 
In situations of organisational restructuring, we negotiate with 
personnel representatives in compliance with each country’s 
local legislation and contractual procedures  . In situations 
involving personnel reductions, we want to primarily support 
the reemployment of the personnel  . 
In restructuring situations, the length of the obligatory 
negotiation period depends on the scale of upcoming changes 
and varies in Fortum’s different operating countries  . The shortest 
period for obligatory negotiations is three weeks (Finland) and the longest is 90 days (India)  . There is no statutory obligatory 
negotiation period in Sweden, Norway and Lithuania  . 
The minimum notice period is based on local legislation, 
collective agreements or employment contracts, which are in 
harmony with the local legislation and agreements  . 
In situations involving personnel reductions, we offer 
outplacement services on a per case and per country basis, and, in cooperation with local unemployment authorities or service 
providers, we investigate the possibilities to arrange vocational or other training enhancing employability  . Retraining for employees 
who continue working is arranged based on organisational and 
individual needs  . In situations involving personnel reductions, the 
content of the support package that we offer is decided based on local needs  . The financial compensation of the package is usually 
based on the years of employment at Fortum  . 
Employee wellbeing 
Our operating environment is constantly changing, and we want 
to support our personnel in the change by paying special attention 
to work wellbeing  . In line with our new leadership principles, the 
development of work wellbeing supports the work environment and 
corporate culture, which helps our employees to succeed  .
Energise Your Day wellbeing programme  
expanded to new operating countries 
The goal of the work wellbeing model, ForCare, is to promote 
the health and occupational safety of our employees and the 
functionality of the work community  . Operating under the ForCare 
model since 2016, the Energise Your Day wellbeing programme 
aims to support and encourage all Fortum employees to maintain 
and improve their overall wellbeing  .
In 2017 the Energise Your Day programme was expanded, and 
is now under way in nine of our operating countries  . The Energise 
Your Day programme starts with a self-assessment-based wellbeing survey; close to 4,700 Fortum employees have responded to the 
survey  . The response rate is 73%  . Based on the responses, the 
most sought after support and tools are for recovery and stress 
management  . 
Based on the wellbeing survey results, employees are offered 
various wellbeing services, such as lectures, coaching clinics, campaigns and other wellbeing activities  . Self-management, stress 
management, recovery, nutrition and physical activity are among the themes  .
 
We promote wellbeing at the workplace also through what is 
called an early-support model  . We increase open communication 
between employees and supervisors by discussing and mapping the 
reasons for absences  . Nearly 4,700 Fortum employees responded to the wellbeing survey. Based on the results, 
we offered physical fitness, recovery, stress management and other support to personnel.
Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility54
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Employees
Social  
responsibility
Occupational safety and health care
Occupational safety and health care are organised in our 
operating countries in line with local legislative requirements  . The 
occupational safety committees represent all personnel groups, 
and they regularly address issues related to occupational safety and 
workplace wellbeing  . 
All our employees are within the sphere of occupational health 
care  . We emphasise the significance of preventive activities in 
promoting wellbeing in the company  . The occupational health 
care costs per person in Finland, before the share reimbursed by Kela (The Social Insurance Institution of Finland), were EUR 533 
(2016: 460)  . 
Fortum conducts regular examinations of its personnel in 
accordance with local laws  . Employees who in their work are 
exposed to e  .g . noise, dust, radiation or who perform shift work 
are within the sphere of the examinations  . Occupational health 
care also participates in various discussions and assessments in the work community  . The occupational health care professionals 
support supervisors by providing information on preventive actions as well as alternatives when the ability to work decreases  . 
Occupational health care also offers methods and tools for these situations  .In 2017 , the percentage of sickness-related absences (excluding 
DUON and Hafslund) was 2  .2 (2016: 2  .3), which is better than the 
target level of ≤2  .3 . For males, the percentage of sickness-related 
absences was 1  .9 (2016: 2  .1) and for females 2  .9 (2016: 3  .0) . The 
sickness absence rate is calculated based on the reported working 
hours of the permanent employees  . The percentage of sickness-
related absences for Hafslund was 3  .0 . In addition to expansion 
of the Energise Your Day occupational wellbeing programme, the 
management of sickness-related absences was one of our focus areas in 2017  .
There was one (2016: 8) case of suspected occupational disease 
in Finland  . The case was related to noise and involved a male 
employee  . The case was determined to be non-occupational  .
An indication of the good management level of working capacity 
and workplace wellbeing at Fortum is the average retirement 
age, which was 62 (2016: 62) years  . In 2016, the average effective 
retirement age in the earnings-related pension scheme in Finland 
was 61  .1 years (Source: Finnish Centre for Pensions)  .Employee development 
Our goal is to be a forerunner in the future energy system  . This 
means that our corporate culture must evolve to be more flexible and agile  . That is why we have drafted new Leadership Principles 
and have updated our company’s Values  . 
Our Open Leadership framework is based on views and input 
received from the Fortum Sound employee survey, Fortum Summit, 
Fortum European Council (FEC), and Must-Win-Battle development 
programmes, among others  . This input emphasised the need 
for more collaboration between units as well as an environment 
fostering innovation and smart risk-taking  . Based on feedback 
we received, there is a need within the teams to better understand how the daily work advances the implementation of our company’s 
strategy  . Open Leadership aims to address these issues  .
FORTUM’S LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES
BELIEVE THE BEST IN OUR PEOPLE
We believe in our people, which empowers them to believe 
in themselves, grow and exceed their own expectations.
WANT THE BEST FOR OUR PEOPLE
We create a work environment and company culture that help our people thrive.
EXPECT THE BEST FROM OUR PEOPLE
As we believe in our people and provide them with a good work environment, we can expect them to deliver results.  We are confident they will even exceed our expectations.
Our Leadership Principles promote openness and curiosity towards 
the world, our customers, the industry, and each other  .2.2%
Sickness-related absences
Target: ≤ 2.3%Sickness absence rate of permanent employees  
in 2015–2017 (GRI 403-2)1), %
2017 2016 2015
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Finland 2.2 2.6 2.4 3.5 2.3 3.5
Sweden 2.8 8.0 2.6 6.3 3.1 5.3
Russia 1.5 1.5 1.8 1.6 1.7 2.0
Poland  2.7 3.1 2.6 3.8 4.1 6.5
Other 
countries 2.5 2.3 2.2 3.5 1.8 3.2
1) Excluding: DUON, Hafslund
Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility55
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Employees
Social  
responsibility
Our Values form the foundation for our corporate culture and guide 
our decision-making  . Fortum’s Values have withstood the test of 
time, and that is why we updated only some elements of our Values so that they are in even better alignment with our strategic context and our situation  . Our updated Values are:
CURIOSITY 
We question the status quo and have the courage to explore.
RESPONSIBILITY
We have a strong sense of responsibility.
INTEGRITY
We believe in transparency.
RESPECT
We greatly value each other and all our stakeholders.
Our Leadership Principles and our Values have already been introduced and discussed in various management meetings and 
in other unit and team meetings  . Leadership Principles have also 
been a central part of seminars and training events that have been arranged in conjunction with the Ways of Working project  . The change in our working culture and the move of the 
headquarters into a new multi-space office require learning on the part of the personnel and the ability to renew ways of working  . 
The purpose of the Ways of Working change management 
trainings, launched in late 2017 , is to offer tools to support better 
collaboration and self-leadership  . The target group of the training 
includes all the employees and their managers who are moving to the new premises  .
The total number of all training hours in 2017 was 62,189 (2016: 
39,129)  . The Safety and Security eLearning aimed at all Group 
personnel contributed to the increase in the number of training 
hours  . Training costs in 2017 totalled EUR 3  .6 (2016: 3  .1) million  .
Performance and development discussions support 
the achievement of targets and professional growth
We support employee development through the annual 
performance and development discussions; all employees are 
within the scope of the annual discussions  . 
The main target of the performance and development 
discussion is to ensure that the employee has clear targets that align with the business as well as the competencies supporting the achievement of the targets and professional growth  . 
The achievement of the targets forms the basis for payment of 
incentives  . All employees who have a minimum of three months 
Training hours in 2017 (GRI 404-1)
 Total number  
of training hours  
for employeesAverage training 
hours per 
employeeTotal number  
of training hours  
for femalesAverage training 
hours per femaleTotal number  
of training hours  
for malesAverage training 
hours per male
Finland 51,027 25 12,608 21 38,419 26 
Blue-collar 8,465 25 441 34 8,024 24 
White-collar 42,562 25 12,167 21 30,395 27 
Other countries 1) 11,162 5 3,643 5 7,519 6 
Blue-collar 2,817 6 110 5 2,707 7 
White-collar 8,345 5 3,533 5 4,812 5 
Total 62,189 15 16,251 12 45,938 17 
1) Excluding: Russia, Hafslund in NorwayLevel of education of the permanent employees  
in 2015–2017, %
Level of education 2017 2016 2015
Doctorate 1 1 1
University 40 43 41
Lower university 8 7 6
College 19 24 27
Vocational 18 17 21
Compulsory 3 3 4
Not indicated 11 5 0of employment in Fortum are within the scope of Fortum’s 
incentive plan  . 
Faster feedback from personnel 
In 2017 we adopted a new, quick pulse survey tool  . By asking ten 
questions we can measure personnel engagement and satisfaction  . 
The tool replaces the previously used Fortum Sound employee 
survey, and it will be conducted every six months  . The employees 
and supervisors see the survey results immediately after the 
feedback is given  . 
The survey conducted in October 2017 had a response rate 
of 69%  . According to the results, 68% of the personnel feel a 
commitment to the company  . Based on the survey results, the 
personnel feel that Fortum is an innovative company and pursues new ways to operate  . There is a clear connection seen between one’s 
own work duties and the company’s targets, and the respondents felt that they can trust management’s decisions  . 
Targets of development included increasing the collaboration 
between the divisions and units, encouraging smart risk-taking, and decreasing the decision-making hierarchy  . Open Leadership 
aims to have an impact on these issues  .Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility56
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Employees Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Safety and security
Social  
responsibility
Safety and security
For Fortum, excellence in safety is the foundation of our business, 
and safe performance is a sign of professionalism  .
Occupational and operational safety 
We strive to be a safe workplace for our employees and for the 
contractors and service providers who work for us  . We believe that 
all work injuries are preventable when competence and the right attitude prevails, when potential risks are addressed and when 
measures are taken to safeguard against them  . Good operational 
safety is an absolute prerequisite for safe and efficient operations in 
terms of the employees and the environment  . 
In 2017 , we had the following Group-level key safety indicators: 
• Injury frequency (TRIF* and LWIF**) for own employees and (LWIF) for contractors
• Number of severe*** accidents 
• Major environmental, health and safety (EHS) incidents 
• Quality of investigation process of occupational accidents, 
major EHS incidents and near misses 
Fortum’s Board of Directors has approved the following 
amendments for 2018: at the Group-level, the LWIF combined (own employees and contractors) will be used as the main safety 
indicator  . Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) for own 
employees will be used as a follow-up indicator  . In addition, the GAP index measuring compliance with the Group’s minimum 
requirements for EHS management is a new Group safety indicator  .
The safety targets apply to all Fortum employees and are part of 
the Group’s 
short-term incentive plan  .
Safety improvements needed 
2017 was a challenging year in terms of occupational safety  . The 
safety performance of our employees is still at a relatively good level but exceeds the lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) target level of 1 .0, and we have not been able to reduce the number of contractor 
accidents  . 
The LWIF for both own employees and contractors has 
increased mainly due to the integration of Recycling and Waste 
Solutions, where the safety actions implemented on the ground 
have not yet resulted in an improved safety performance  . 
As a result, only the total recordable incident frequency (TRIF) 
for own employees and the number of severe accidents met the set target level  . The LWIF for own employees per million working 
hours was 1  .2 (2016: 1  .0) and the TRIF was 1  .8 (2016: 1  .9) .
The LWIF for contractors continues to be our main challenge  . 
The LWIF for contractors per million working hours was 4  .2 (2016: 
3 .0), and we did not achieve the target of ≤3  .5 . The same challenge 
applies to the combined LWIF (own employees and contractors): the result was 2  .4 (2016: 1  .8), exceeding the target of 1  .9 . However, 
we can be pleased that there have been no accidents leading to a fatality in Fortum’s operations in the last three years  . 
Our target defined in 2017 is to reduce severe accidents to zero 
by 2020  . We had one severe accident in Russia in 2017; our target 
for the Group was ≤5  . Consequently, Fortum’s Board of Directors 
amended the target and we are now aiming for zero severe accidents 
already in 2018  . 
In reporting accidents, we comply with the principles of the 
United States Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) and ILO’s Practices on Recording and Notification of Occupational 
Accidents and Diseases to the extent that they conform with the legislation in Fortum’s countries of operation .
* TRIF: Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours 
** LWIF: Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours, absence of one or more working days or shifts, excluding the day the accident happened *** Severe accident: Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability and an accident that could have caused serious consequences100%
of the personnel completed the 
Safety and Security eLearning.
Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility57
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Employees Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Safety and security
Social  
responsibility
Operational safety 
We track major environmental, health and safety (EHS) incidents 
as a Group target; these incidents cover fires, leaks >100 litres into 
the environment, explosions, nuclear and dam safety incidents, and environmental non-compliances  . There were 20 (2016: 22) 
EHS incidents in 2017; the target was ≤21  . There was one (2016: 0) 
INES event exceeding level 0 (INES = International Nuclear Event 
Scale)  . The incidents did not cause significant harm to people, 
operations or the environment  . 
Common guidelines steer our operations 
Fortum has Group-level EHS instructions and minimum requirements that set requirements for all the operations for which 
we have operative responsibility  . The requirements are updated 
regularly, and the divisionsʼ performance in complying with the 
revised requirements is assessed yearly  . 
The two proactive KPIs (Quality of EHS incident investigations 
and GAP index) introduced in 2017 help ensure compliance with the Group minimum requirements for EHS management and thus 
reduce the risk of improper work practices  . They also ensure a timely 
investigation of incidents, the sharing of lessons learned, and reduce the risk of repeating the same mistakes again  . Both of these proactive 
KPIs are also internal control points of the EHS processes  . 
A Safety and Security eLearning programme, compulsory 
for all personnel, was launched in spring 2017  . The training for 
Fortum Executive Management took place already in January 2017  . 
By year end, all personnel had completed the e-learning  . In 2018, 
Fortum will also introduce external safety training for both the 
management level and key individuals leading safety work as well as 
for the most challenging business areas in terms of safety  .
A development project addressing contractor safety was carried 
out during the year  . New tools were developed to assess contractor 
safety performance as part of the supplier qualification process 
and to evaluate their safety practices in a more systematic manner 
during work  . The project also included benchmarking with 
leading European companies to assess best practices in contractor management  . Key persons were trained on the new tools and 
implementation of them will continue during 2018  .Key safety figures in 2015–2017 (GRI 403-2)
 Target 
2018Target 
2017 2017 2016 2015
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 1), own personnel ≤2.5 1.8 1.9 1.6
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 2), own personnel and contractors ≤2.1 ≤1.9  2.4 1.8 1.7 
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 2), own personnel ≤1.0 1.2 1.0 1.1
Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF) 2), contractors ≤3.5 4.2 3.0 2.7
Lost workday injuries, own personnel    17 14 15
Lost workday injuries, contractors   42 27 29 *
Severe occupational accidents 3)0 ≤5  1 5
Fatalities, own personnel  0 0 0
Fatalities, contractors  0 0 0
Major EHS incidents 4)≤20 ≤21  20 22 18
1) TRIF = Total recordable injury frequency, injuries per million working hours
2) LWIF = Lost workday injury frequency, injuries per million working hours3) Fatality or an accident leading to permanent disability and an accident that could have caused serious consequences
4) Fires, leaks, explosions, INES events exceeding level 0, dam safety incidents, environmental non-compliances. INES = International Nuclear Event Scale
* Including contractor injuries of the divested Distribution business
Occupational accidents, accident frequencies and absence days due to occupational accidents in 2017  
by region and gender (GRI 403-2)
 Finland Sweden Norway Russia Poland Others
Own personnel       
Occupational accidents causing absence, men  6 0 1 1 3 5
Occupational accidents causing absence, women   0 0 0 1 0 0
LWIF, men   2.2 0.0 3.4 0.2 4.4 5.8
LWIF, women  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.0
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for men, days  30 0 1 43 87 62
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for women, days  0 0 0 15 0 0
Contractors       
Occupational accidents causing absence, men  24 6 1 0 5 3
Occupational accidents causing absence, women  1 0 2 0 0 0
LWIF, men and women 1) 13.2 6.5  24.5  0.0 2.2 1.7
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for men, days  268  98 2 0 76 7
Absence from work due to occupational accidents for women, days  2 0 48 0 0 0
1) Contractor hours not available by genderEnvironmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility58
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Employees Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Safety and security
Social  
responsibility
We will continue our efforts to improve safety 
Our goal is to continuously improve the safety of our operations  . 
Our target for LWIF combined (own employees and contractors) for 
2018 is 2  .1 (2017: 1  .9) . Setting a higher numeric target than in 2017 
might seem controversial, but it is challenging considering that the 
actual result in 2017 was 2  .4 . Achieving the target of 2  .1 requires 
robust safety improvement actions and implementation of Fortum’s EHS minimum requirements  . 
Excellent occupational safety continues to be a promise we want 
to keep also in the years ahead  . We are committed to achieving the 
contractor safety level target (LWIF ≤2  .0) by 2020  .
Corporate security 
Through corporate security, we strive to ensure the uninterrupted 
continuity of business and the safety of people, information, 
our assets and processes in normal and exceptional situations  . 
Uninterrupted energy production and distribution is important 
both for Fortum’s business operations and for an energy-dependent 
society  . Our Corporate Security unit is responsible at the Group level for personnel and operational security; cyber security 
and data security are also within the scope of the unit’s areas of responsibility  .
Securing personnel and business safety 
Compliance with the minimum safety requirements improves 
our operational ability to withstand and recover from disruptions 
and thus reduces unplanned maintenance outages and improves productivity  . 
We assess risks related to people, business and information 
in all geographical areas where Fortum has potential operations and business travel  . Risks impacting the company and business 
operations may be related to political situations, terrorism, crime, conflicts and business partners  . 
Corporate security is improved also by gaining a deeper 
understanding of the security situation so that we can anticipate 
and prevent risks before they materialise  . 
Cyber security 
Security with the information we handle and with our IT 
systems ensures that we can meet society’s and our customers’ 
expectations  . Our cyber security programme is currently 
divided into data, IT and digital services security and security of automation systems  . The aim is to ensure the production and 
distribution of power and heat and the functioning of new digital services, like Internet of Things applications  . 
In IT security, we aim to ensure the accessibility, integrity and 
confidentiality of critical information  . We also take seriously our 
compliance with the regulations related to the protection of 
personal data  . Customer data protection is discussed in the 
Product responsibility section .
We actively engage in collaboration with authorities and other 
stakeholders to understand and prevent new and growing cyber threats  . We launch campaigns to increase employee awareness of 
security risks  . We promote ways of operating that take employee 
information security into consideration by, e  .g ., providing 
guidelines and online training  .Contingency planning 
The main disaster and emergency situations we prepare for are 
related to our critical operations, such as power plant and dam 
safety and securing other operations  .
For dam and nuclear safety, emergency preparedness 
obligations in Finland and Sweden are based on regulatory provisions; likewise, there are terrorism-related preparedness 
obligations in Russia  . Otherwise, emergency preparedness 
obligations prescribed by authorities are of a general nature  . Based 
on its own risk assessments, Fortum independently defines the crisis and exceptional situations it prepares for and drafts action 
plans for .  
Fortum’s crisis and emergency management instructions 
are prepared for Group, division and site levels  . The testing 
and updating of the crisis management and continuity plans 
are the responsibility of each division and line organisation  . 
Crises impacting Group operations more broadly are managed 
at the Group level  . Crisis communication instructions have been 
prepared for e  .g . power and heat outages and for the Loviisa 
nuclear power plant  . Corporate Security is responsible for crisis 
management development, e  .g ., for organising rehearsals and 
supporting planning  . Group Communications is responsible for 
crisis communication .
In 2017 , an emergency preparedness exercise for hydropower 
production in Finland was held  . The annual emergency 
preparedness exercise related to a nuclear power accident was held at the Loviisa power plant  . 
20
Major EHS 
incidents
Target: ≤ 211.8
TRIF own 
employees
Target: ≤ 2.5
Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility59
Social  
responsibility 
Safety and security Employees Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Corporate citizenship
Social  
responsibility
Corporate citizenship 
Social responsibility is a cornerstone of Fortum’s operations  . Our 
operations impact the local communities where our power plants 
are located, and we engage in many kinds of collaboration with 
local stakeholders  .
We support activities promoting the common good in society, 
including the work of organisations and communities in our operating countries  . Fortum’s Policy for Sponsoring and Donations 
was revised in December 2017  . According to the policy, Fortum’s 
sponsoring will focus on the wellbeing of children and youth, 
renewable energy projects, R&D and innovations supporting 
Fortum’s strategy, recycling, recovery and reutilisation  . For 2017 , 
we are reporting support for society pursuant to the categorisation 
based on the previous version of the Sponsoring and Donations 
Policy  . Fortum also engages in significant collaboration with 
different research and development projects, particularly with 
Nordic universities  .
We actively participate in 
national and international  
organisations  . Public affairs and collaboration with authorities are 
a priority in the energy sector  .
Local impacts and collaboration with  
local communities 
We are an important employer and significant tax payer in our 
operating areas  . In addition, our investments improve the local 
infrastructure  . Of our energy production forms, hydropower has 
the most significant impacts on local communities and local 
forms of land use  . Hydropower construction and use may alter the 
fluctuation range and rhythm in the discharge and water level in waterways as well as the fish fauna  . These changes impact fishing, 
recreational use, and boating  . We mitigate and compensate the 
adversities caused by hydropower production through numerous measures, such as stocking fish and building boat launch ramps  .
We communicate openly, honestly and proactively, and we 
engage in a dialogue with the stakeholder groups located in 
the vicinity of our power plants  . We carry out collaboration projects with local communities  . We conduct environmental 
impact assessments (EIA) for our projects in accordance with legislative requirements  . The hearing of stakeholders is part of 
the EIA process  . In addition, relevant stakeholders are heard in all 
permit procedures  . 
Examples of our activities with local communities in 2017: 
• We arranged open-house events at power plants in different countries of operation; thousands of locals attended the events  .
• We continued publishing the Naapurina ydinvoimala (Nuclear power plant as a neighbour) magazine in Loviisa, Finland, 
and maintained an active dialogue with local residents and representatives of the city of Loviisa  .
• In Riihimäki, Finland, an active dialogue with local residents is supported by a cooperation council convening twice a year  .
• 
Projects  aiming to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts 
of hydropower were under way in Finland and Sweden in collaboration with municipalities, research facilities, fishermen, universities and environmental organisations  . For example, the 
River Oulujoki restoration and multi-use framework agreement was renewed for 2018-2021 in Finland  . Within the agreement, we 
continue improving environmental conditions and recreational 
use of the river with local partners  . In Sweden, we finalised a 
multiannual, cooperation research project in on migratory fish in River Klarälven  . 
• We held the fifth River Clean-Up for sports clubs in Sweden  . More 
than 1,700 children and adults raised money for sports activities 
by collecting 17  .5 tonnes of trash along the banks of four rivers 
(Dalälven, Klarälven, Ljusnan and Gullspångälven) where 
Fortum has hydropower plants  .
• We continued supporting local communities with several 
projects in the vicinity of the Kapeli and Amrit solar power plants 
in India  . Among other things, Fortum has improved water and 
electricity supply in the villages as well as supported local schools by building a new classroom and furnishing the kitchen 
for providing lunch for the children  . In three villages in the vicinity of the Bhadla power plant, a 
community development  
programme  was started  . The programme includes a Self Help 
Group for local women and provides drinking water through a “ Wat er ATM” .  
• We support the communities in power plant areas through 
various donations  . In Poland, e  .g ., we supported workshops and 
scholarships for talented children raised in difficult conditions and installed solar panels on the rooftop of a kindergarten  . In 
Russia, we supported medical care for children with serious 
diseases  . In Finland, elementary schools in the Hausjärvi 
and Riihimäki region were supported to join "Vihreä lippu" sustainable development programme  .
Support for society 
As part of Finland 100, the centenary of Finland’s independence, 
Fortum made donation of EUR 1 million to four Finnish 
universities  . Fortum Waste Solutions distributed a total of 
EUR 120,000 in grants to five environmental management research 
projects  . The grant, awarded by the company’s environmental 
scholarship fund, is the largest research grant in the industry 
to be awarded by a company on an annual basis  . In 2017 , our 
support for activities promoting the common good totalled about EUR 4  .9 (2016: 2  .9) million  .
Fortum Foundation supports research, education and 
development in the natural, technical and economical sciences 
within the energy industry  . Fortum Foundation is not part of 
Fortum Group  . The grants awarded by Fortum Foundation in 2017 
were about EUR 696,000 (2016: 675,000)  . 
The goal of the collaboration with universities and colleges 
is to develop Fortum’s business, promote energy-sector 
research and development, and foster Fortum’s recruiting and 
training opportunities  .Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility60
Social  
responsibility 
Safety and security Employees Product responsibility Human rights Security of supply
 Corporate citizenship
Social  
responsibility
Examples of our collaboration with universities and colleges in 
different operating countries: 
• In Sweden, there is a multi-year project under way that 
aims to offer sustainability-related training to more than 4,000 educators  . Fortum’s collaboration partners in the project 
are Pedagog Värmland, Karlstad municipality, engineering and consulting company ÅF, and Chalmers University of Technology  . 
• In Estonia and Lithuania, Fortum is a member of the Baltic Innovative Research and Technology Infrastructure (BIRTI), 
which coordinates collaboration between universities, scientific 
institutes and entrepreneurs  .
• In Latvia, Fortum is taking an active part in the THERMOS 
(Thermal Energy Resource Modelling and Optimisation System) 
project  . It is an EU Horizon 2020-funded research project 
that will provide advanced energy system data and models to 
make heat network planning faster, more efficient, and more 
cost effective  . 
Sponsorship projects 
In 2017 , we continued sponsoring the coaching of children and youth in football, volleyball, basketball, and track and field  . 
Through the Fortum Tutor programme, we offer tutors to support coaches in their daily work as well as financial support for teams 
to train new coaches  . Fortum Tutor operates in Finland and in the 
Baltic cities where Fortum has power plants  . In 2017 , we were the 
main partner for the world’s largest junior volleyball tournament in 
Finland  . Fortum Power Cup attracted thousands of junior players 
and their coaches for outdoor games  .
The Fortum Honorary Energy Donor mobile app has been in 
use in Poland  . It encourages people to engage in physical activity  . 
The distance covered during a physical activity can be converted 
into energy, for which Fortum makes a financial donation to 
selected charities  .Fortum’s support to society by target, % 
 Environment, 27
 Sports, 19
 Culture, 13
 Children and youth, 12
 Other, 29Fortum’s support to society by country, %
 Finland, 38
 Sweden, 4
 Norway, 10
 Russia, 43
 Poland, 2
 Other countries, 3
In 2017, more than 1,500 school kids in Tyumen, 
Chelyabinsk, and other cities in the Chelyabinsk region completed the “AboutEnergy” educational programme sponsored by Fortum. The goal of the programme is to teach children to use resources efficiently and to foster an ecological mindset.
During the school year, 67 classes in 20 schools in the 
participating cities and the districts took the total of more than 2,000 lessons under this programme. The most active students were invited to a closing event in Chelyabinsk. They passed a final exam on the course they completed and took part in various activities. There was also a Jeka computer game tournament – a game developed by the Housing and Utilities Foundation to teach and promote energy saving skills.
Fortum first launched the “Culture of the new 
generation: energy saving and efficiency” project in 2015. The “AboutEnergy” programme has been praised by local 
educators and the Ministry of Education and Science of 
the Chelyabinsk region. Along with theoretical studies, it includes workshops, excursions, creative competitions and environmental campaigns.Case | AboutEnergy 
educational programme  in Russia Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility61
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Employees Product responsibility Security of supply
 Human rights
Social  
responsibility
Human rights 
Fortum supports and respects internationally recognised human 
rights, which are included in the key human rights agreements  . Our 
own operations have a direct or indirect impact on the realisation of the human rights of our own personnel, those working in the supply chain, and members of local communities  .
Management of human rights issues and personnel 
training 
Our goal is to operate in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, and to apply these principles in our 
own operations as well as in country and partner risk assessments and supplier audits  . Fortum’s approach to the management of 
human rights issues is described in more detail in 
Appendix 1:  
Sustainability management by topic, Human rights  . 
Fortum’s Corporate Sustainability unit is responsible for 
coordinating and developing sustainability, including human rights issues, at the Group level  .
The online course for Fortum’s Code of Conduct includes 
training in human rights-related issues  . The course is part of the 
induction programme for new employees  . The Supplier Code of 
Conduct includes human rights requirements and they are reviewed 
as part of the Code of Conduct training  . Trainings were arranged in 
2017 for Fortum’s Baltic functions and for the Recycling and Waste Solutions personnel in Finland and Sweden  .
In 2017 Fortum participated in the Ministry of Economic Affairs 
and Employment and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs’ round table 
discussions about the human rights issues of Finnish companiesʼ operations located in risk countries  . Non-governmental and labour 
market organisations also participated in the discussions  . The 
discussions resulted in a joint 
statement  that was published in 
conjunction with a stakeholder event in March 2018  .Assessment of human rights impacts
A sustainability assessment is carried out for our investment 
projects and takes into consideration the environmental, 
occupational health and safety, and social impacts of the project  . 
The sustainability assessment includes a human rights evaluation, 
especially in new operating areas  . A human rights assessment is 
also part of the systematic assessment of country and counterparty risks when planning a project  .
The process has two parts: a light and a deep assessment  . A 
light assessment is done for all new countries in which one of our business units is planning the sales of products or services, and 
it is based on publically available sources  . In 2017 , 14 of these 
assessments were made  . One deep assessment was made  . 
Fortum’s supplier audits cover the most important human rights 
aspects related to purchases  . The supplier audits conducted in 2017 
and their results are described in more detail in the section 
Sustainable supply chain  .
Identified impacts on human rights, corrective 
measures and grievances 
All forms of child and forced labour are strictly prohibited and in 
violation of Fortum’s Code of Conduct  . Of our operating countries, 
India has not ratified the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) 
Convention on the minimum age and the worst forms of child 
labour  . Our functions in India require job applicants to be of adult 
age . We have not identified risks related to the use of forced labour 
in our own operations  . Support of employees’ right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining are discussed in the 
section Employee-employer relations  .
Internal reporting channels used for reporting any suspected 
misconduct relating to labour practices or human rights violations are defined in Fortum’s Code of Conduct  . In addition to internal 
reporting channels, Fortum has an external “Raise a concern” 
channel which is available to all stakeholders  . There were no grievances related to human rights, labour rights 
or discrimination filed through formal grievance channels in 2017 , 
nor were there any grievances carried over from the previous year  .Fortum participated in 
the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs’ round table discussions about the human rights issues of companies.
Environmental  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility62
Social  
responsibility 
Corporate citizenship Safety and security Employees Human rights Security of supply
 Product responsibility
Social  
responsibility
Product responsibility 
Fortum is a clean energy company that provides customers 
with electricity, heating and cooling as well as smart solutions 
to improve resource efficiency  . Our ambition is to engage our 
customers and society to drive the change towards a low-carbon 
energy system and optimal resource efficiency  . 
Fortum is the third largest power generator and the largest 
electricity retailer in the Nordic countries  . We are one of the world’s 
largest producers of heat  . We also offer district cooling, energy 
efficiency services, recycling and waste solutions, and the largest 
electric vehicle charging network in the Nordic countries  .
Guarantee-of-origin-labelled and renewable 
electricity 
Hydro and nuclear account for two-thirds of our electricity 
production, making us one of the Nordic countries’ leading sellers 
of carbon dioxide-free and guarantee-of-origin-labelled electricity  . 
All the electricity we sold to household customers in Finland and 
Sweden in 2017 was renewable and carbon dioxide-free hydro, wind 
or solar power  . The origin of the electricity was guaranteed with 
European Guarantees of Origin  . A guarantee of origin is proof that 
the electricity has been produced from renewable energy sources  . 
Some of the electricity we sell is also guaranteed with the pan-European EKOenergy label granted by environmental organisations 
and, in Sweden, with the Bra Miljöval label  .
Services to customers 
In recent years Fortum has introduced many new services 
that reduce environmental impacts and give customers better 
opportunities to control their electricity consumption and costs  . 
The sustainable solutions we offer to growing urban areas in 
energy production, traffic and waste management also support 
a circular economy  . The number of consumers participating in 
energy production is growing  . The solutions offered by Fortum for 
this area are related to home automation, smart EV charging, local energy production and storage, and flexible demand  . Additionally, we offer diverse expertise services for energy systems, electricity and heat production and for the process industry  . 
Marketing communications and customer data 
protection 
Our goal is to present products and services truthfully in all our 
marketing and communication materials  . We strictly follow 
responsible marketing communication guidelines, and we do 
not present misleading statements  . In statements regarding 
environmental issues, we follow the regulations for environmental marketing  . 
In 2017 Fortum received from the Finnish Energy Authority 
one request of further clarification as regards a marketed product  . 
The Finnish Energy Authority also sent a separate request to add 
missing information on the Authority’s web pages  . The requested 
information was provided within the set timeframe  . The Swedish 
Consumer Agency as well as the Energy Market Inspectorate 
in Sweden requested Fortum to implement some changes in its 
marketing communication  . Fortum is in the process of implementing 
the requested changes  . The Energy Market Inspectorate also ordered 
an injunction in the case, which Fortum has appealed  . 
Data protection legislation has been amended in recent years  . 
In 2016 the EU published the Data Protection Regulation, which will take effect in May 2018  . We have prepared for the regulation to 
take effect by launching a data protection programme, and several development projects for personal information processing have 
been started in conjunction with it  . In 2017 the Data Protection 
Ombudsman initiated an enquiry against Fortum Markets A/S in 
Norway  . Due to a software failure, some data classified as personal 
data were mismanaged  . The software functionality has been 
corrected, but the case was pending at the year end  .
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND REPUTATION 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICESEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilitySustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility63
Reporting principles  
and assurance 
Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI disclosures
Reporting principles 
We report on sustainability in this Sustainability Report and in the 
Online Annual Review  . Non-financial reporting, in line with the 
Accounting Act, is included in the Operating and Financial Review in the 
Financials  . Additionally, we describe sustainability-related 
governance practices in the Corporate Governance Statement, and 
strategy and the CEO’s view in the CEO Letter  . Our reporting entity 
also includes the Tax Footprint  .
In our sustainability reporting, we follow the integrated 
reporting principles, and we apply specific disclosures of the GRI 
Sustainability Reporting Standards we have identified as material  . 
We gain information about our stakeholders’ views through 
the One Fortum survey, the stakeholder sustainability survey and 
other stakeholder collaboration .  Our selection of material topics is 
based on Fortum’s own and our stakeholders’ views regarding the 
materiality of the impacts  . 
We report sustainability information annually in Finnish and 
English  . In our annual reporting we describe Fortum’s operations 
in 2017 as well as some information from January–February 2018  . 
The previous reporting was published in March 2017 , and our next reporting will be published in February/March 2019  . In addition to 
the annual reporting, we report on our sustainability activities in Fortum’s interim reports  . 
Reporting scope and boundaries 
Reporting related to operations and management covers all 
functions under Fortum’s control, including subsidiaries in all 
countries of operation  . The figures for power and heat generation 
and investments include also figures from Fortumʼs share in 
associated companies and joint ventures that sell their production 
to the owners on cost basis  . Possible deviations to these principles 
are reported in conjunction with information applying different 
boundaries  . A list of Fortum’s subsidiaries is included in the 
Financial Statements  Note 40 Subsidiaries by segment  .
Information from previous years is mainly presented as pro 
forma information, i  .e . on the basis of the organisation and the functions of each year; the impacts of ownership changes in production facilities, for example, have not been updated 
afterwards in the previous figures  .
The company AB Fortum Värme samägt med Stockholms stad 
(Fortum Värme, at present Stockholm Exergi) is classified in the Financial Statements as a joint venture and is consolidated with 
the equity method  . Fortum Värme is not included in Fortum’s 
sustainability targets and indicators nor in the descriptions of 
management practices  . Fortum Värme’s sustainability information 
is available in Fortum Värme’s sustainability report  . 
Fortum completed the divestment of its Distribution business 
on 1 June 2015  . In this report, the information for 2017 and 
2016 and, as a general rule, also for 2015 does not include the 
Distribution business  . 
On 4 August 2017 , Fortum concluded the restructuring of its 
ownership in Hafslund ASA with the City of Oslo  . Sustainability 
information relating to Hafslund Markets’ and Fortum Oslo 
Varmeʼs operations is included in Fortum’s reporting as of 
1 August 2017  . 
On 28 July 2017 , Fortum concluded the divestment of its 
100-per cent shareholding in the Polish gas infrastructure company DUON Dystrybucja S  .A, which is included in the sustainability 
reporting up to 30 June 2017  .
Exceptions to the accounting practice are presented in 
conjunction with each figure  .
Capacity changes 
Fortum commissioned unit 3 (248 MW electricity and 174 MW heat) of its Chelyabinsk GRES combined heat and power (CHP) 
plant in Russia in November 2017  . During 2017 Fortum acquired 
or commissioned 205 MW of solar power capacity in India and 
Russia and 32 MW of wind power capacity in Norway  . Through the 
Hafslund ASA ownership restructuring, 19 MW of electricity and 
1,111 MW of heat production capacity was transferred to Fortum  . The commissioned and acquired capacity during the year is included in the reporting starting from their commissioning  .
Measurement and calculation principles
Data for economic performance indicators is collected from the 
audited Financial Statements and from financial accounting and 
consolidation systems  . 
The environmental information of the report covers the plants 
for which Fortum is the legal holder of the environmental permit  . 
In such cases, the plant information is reported in its entirety  . An 
exception is the calculation of specific CO 2 emissions and fuel use 
from the Meri-Pori power plant, where the calculation covers only 
Fortum’s share of production and emissions as specified in the 
operation agreement between Fortum and Teollisuuden Voima Oy  . 
Fortum utilises a Group-wide database with instructions for 
collecting site-level environmental data  . Sites are responsible 
for data input, emissions calculations and the accuracy of the 
information provided  . The Corporate Sustainability unit compiles 
the data at the Group level and is responsible for the disclosed 
sustainability information .
Fortum’s CO 2 emissions subject to the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme are annually verified at the site-level by external verifiers  . 
Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions have been reported in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol on the 
basis of the Greenhouse Gas Analysis performed by an external 
consultant  .
Fortum’s human resources (HR) management system is used 
in all Fortum’s operating countries and is the main system for employee-related personal and job data  . In Russia, the employee 
data system covers mainly superiors  . In addition, Russian 
operations have their own, local data system  . Other social 
responsibility data, such as occupational health-related data, originates from various data systems  .Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilitySustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility64
Reporting principles  
and assurance 
Reporting principles Assurance report Reported GRI disclosures
Designated individuals collect the information and deliver it to the 
Corporate Sustainability unit primarily in the format recommended 
by the GRI Standards  .
Assurance
Deloitte Oy has provided limited assurance for the  
1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 reporting period for emissions calculations (Scope 1–3) based on the GHG protocol according to 
the requirements published by CDP (Verification of Climate Data)  . 
Global Compact and Caring for Climate reporting
Fortum has been a participant of the United Nations Global 
Compact initiative since 2010  . In our sustainability report, in 
conjunction with the description of environmental responsibility, 
social responsibility and business ethics, we describe the 
realisation of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact initiative 
in our operations in 2017  . We use the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards disclosures to measure compliance with the principles 
of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-
corruption .  
Fortum joined the UN Caring for Climate initiative in 2013  . 
Fortum meets the reporting requirements of the Caring for Climate 
initiative by annually participating in the assessment in the CDP’s 
climate change survey and by publishing its response on the CDP website  .
Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilitySustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility65
Reporting principles  
and assurance 
Assurance report Reporting principles  Reported GRI disclosures
Reporting principles  
and assurance
Reported GRI disclosures
This Sustainability Report 2017 references the following Disclosures from the GRI Topic-specific Standards presented in the table  .
All the standards are from the 2016 version  .
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SECTION
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103-1 Explanation of the material topics Sustainability approach /  
Key sustainability topics
Appendix 1: Sustainability management 
by topic
Additionally reported by topic
103-2 The management approach and its 
components Sustainability approach / Governance 
and management
Sustainability approach / Policies and 
commitments
Appendix 1: Sustainability management 
by topic
Sustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
Environmental responsibility / 
Environmental non-compliances and 
incidents
Social responsibility / Human rights
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Appendix 1: Sustainability management 
by topicAdditionally reported by topicDISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SECTION
ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY
GRI 201: Economic performance
201-1  Direct economic value generated and 
distributedEconomic responsibility / Economic 
impacts
201-2  Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeEnvironmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation  
Financials / Operating and financial 
review / Risk management
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Financials / Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements / 30 Pension 
obligations
201-4  Financial assistance received from 
governmentEconomic responsibility / Economic 
impacts
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruptionSustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
205-2  Communication and training about 
anti-corruption policies and proceduresSustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
205-3  Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions takenSustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior  
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Sustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
Nuclear Plant Decommissioning  
103  Management Approach Financials /  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements / 28 Nuclear related 
assets and liabilities
System Efficiency
EU11  Average generation efficiency of thermal 
plantsEnvironmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Energy intensityEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilitySustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility66
Reporting principles  
and assurance 
Assurance report Reporting principles  Reported GRI disclosures
Reporting principles  
and assurance
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SECTION
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
GRI 301: Materials
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental responsibility  / Improving 
energy efficiency / Fuel consumption
301-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental responsibility  / Improving 
energy efficiency / Fuel consumption
Environmental responsibility / Circular 
economy
GRI 302: Energy  
302-1  Energy consumption within the organisation Environmental responsibility  / Improving 
energy efficiency / Fuel consumption
Environmental responsibility / Sustainable 
energy  production 
Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Energy intensity
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency / Energy intensity 
302-4  Reduction of energy consumption Environmental responsibility / Improving 
energy efficiency
GRI 303: Water
303-1  Water withdrawal by source Environmental responsibility / Water use
GRI 304: Biodiversity
 304-3  Habitats protected or restored Environmental responsibility / BiodiversityDISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SECTION
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas 
emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Environmental responsibility / Climate 
change mitigation / Greenhouse gas emissions
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO
X), sulfur oxides (SO X), 
and other significant air emissionsEnvironmental responsibility / Emissions 
into air
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
306-1  Water discharge by quality and destination Environmental responsibility / Water use
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental responsibility / Circular 
economy / Waste and by-products
306-3  Significant spills Environmental responsibility / 
Environmental non-compliances and 
incidents
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsEnvironmental responsibility / 
Environmental non-compliances and 
incidents
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment  
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken Economic responsibility / Supply  chain 
management / Sustainable supply chainEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilitySustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility67
Reporting principles  
and assurance 
Assurance report Reporting principles  Reported GRI disclosures
Reporting principles  
and assurance
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SECTION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social responsibility / Employees
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social responsibility   / Employees / 
Employee-employer relations
GRI 401:  Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility / Employees
GRI 403:  Occupational Health and Safety
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesSocial responsibility / Safety and security 
/ Occupational and operational safety
Social responsibility / Employees / 
Employee wellbeing
 GRI 404: Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per 
employeeSocial responsibility / Employees / 
Employee development
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social responsibility / Employees / 
Employee development
404-3  Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career development reviewsSocial responsibility / Employees / 
Employee development
GRI 405:  Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1  Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social responsibility / Employees / 
Diversity and equal opportunity
Governance / Corporate governance 
statement / Board of directors
405-2  Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menSocial responsibility / Employees / 
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 406: Non-discrimination
 406-1  Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenSocial responsibility / Employees / 
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right 
to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining may be at riskSocial responsibility   / Employees / 
Employee-employer relations
Economic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
GRI 408: Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of child labor Social responsibility / Human rightsDISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SECTION
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Social responsibility / Human rights
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsSocial responsibility / Human rights
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Social responsibility / Human rights
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningSocial responsibility / Human rights
GRI 413: Local Communities
413-2 Operations with significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on local 
communitiesSocial responsibility / Corporate 
citizenship
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenEconomic responsibility / Supply chain 
management / Sustainable supply chain
GRI 415: Public Policy    
415-1 Political contributions Sustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsSocial responsibility / Product 
responsibility
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic areaSustainability approach / Business ethics 
and compliance
Social responsibility / Employees / 
Diversity and equal opportunity
Social responsibility / Human rights
Social responsibility / Product 
responsibility
Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response
103 Management Approach Social responsibility / Safety and security 
/ Corporate security
AccessEU30 Average plant availability factor
Social responsibility / Security of supplyEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilitySustainability 
approach AppendicesEconomic  
responsibility68
Reporting principles  
and assurance 
Reported GRI disclosures Reporting principles  Assurance report
Reporting principles  
and assurance
Independent limited assurance report  
on Fortumʼs Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2017
To the Management of Fortum Corporation
We have been engaged by Fortum Corporation (hereafter: Fortum) 
to provide a limited assurance on Fortum’s Fossil Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (hereafter: GHG Emissions) broken down by scope 1, 2 and 3 for the reporting period of January 1, 2017 to December 31, 
2017 (hereafter: GHG Emissions Disclosures)  . The information 
subject to the assurance engagement is presented in the section “Greenhouse gas emissions” of Fortum’s sustainability reporting 
2017 (hereafter: GHG Reporting)  .
Management’s responsibility
Management is responsible for the preparation of the GHG 
Reporting in accordance with the reporting criteria as set out in 
Fortum’s reporting principles and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (hereafter: GHG Protocol)  . This responsibility includes: designing, 
implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the GHG Reporting that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
selecting and applying appropriate criteria and making estimates 
that are reasonable in the circumstances  .
Assurance provider’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the reported GHG Emissions Disclosures within Fortum’s GHG 
Reporting based on our engagement  . Our assurance report is made 
in accordance with the terms of our engagement with Fortum  . We 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Fortum for our work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we 
have reached .  
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410 to 
provide a limited assurance on performance data  . This Standard 
requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited assurance 
whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe 
that the GHG Emissions Disclosures have not been presented, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria  . 
We did not perform any assurance procedures on the 
prospective information, such as targets, expectations and 
ambitions, disclosed in the GHG Reporting  . Consequently, we draw 
no conclusion on the prospective information .  
A limited assurance engagement with respect to the GHG 
Emissions Disclosures involves performing procedures to obtain 
evidence about the reported GHG Emissions  . The procedures 
performed depend on the practitioner’s judgment, but their 
nature is different from, and their extent is less than, a reasonable 
assurance engagement  . It does not include detailed testing of 
source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls and consequently they do not enable us to obtain the assurance necessary to become aware of all significant matters that 
might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement  .
Our procedures on this engagement included:
• A review of management systems, reporting and data 
compilation processes
• Selected interviews of persons conducting scope 1, 2 and 3 
analysis and data owners
• Review of assumptions and emission factors used in calculations
• Analytical testing of consolidated data
• Testing of source data on spot check basis 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion .
Our independence, quality control and competences
We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies which address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of the International 
Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as independent assurance providers and in particular preclude us from taking financial, commercial, 
governance and ownership positions which might affect, or 
be perceived to affect, our independence and impartiality and from any involvement in the preparation of the report  . We have 
maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year and there were no events or prohibited services provided which 
could impair our independence and objectivity  . 
Deloitte Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality 
control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements  . This engagement was 
conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance and sustainability expertise with professional qualifications  . Our team 
is experienced in providing sustainability reporting assurance  .
Conclusion
On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information 
subject to the assurance engagement is not prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the GHG Protocol or that the GHG 
Emissions Disclosures are not reliable, in all material respects, with 
regard to the reporting criteria  . 
Our assurance statement should be read in conjunction with 
the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness of the GHG Reporting  . 
Helsinki 28 February 2018
Deloitte Oy
 Reeta Virolainen  Lasse Ingström
 Authorized Public Accountant  Authorized Public AccountantEnvironmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approachEconomic  
responsibility69
AppendicesAppendix 1: Sustainability management by topic 
Sustainability management in the areas of economic responsibility, environmental responsibility and 
social responsibility is described in the accompanying tables  . Additionally, more detailed information 
about the management of different topics and impacts as well as about the measures, processes and projects is presented by topic in this report  . Fortum’s “Raise a concern” channel has been described in 
the section Business ethics and compliance  . The purpose of the sustainability management approach is 
to ensure our operational compliance and to avoid, mitigate and compensate the adverse impacts from our operations and to increase the positive impacts  . 
Management of economic responsibility
Description
Targets and 
approach For Fortum economic responsibility means competitiveness, performance excellence and market-driven production that creates long-term value for our stakeholders and enables sustainable growth. Satisfied customers are key to our success and active consumers will 
have a crucial role in the future energy system. Fortum has indirect responsibility for its 
supply chain. We conduct business with companies that act responsibly. 
Each new research and development project is assessed against the criteria of carbon 
dioxide emissions reduction and resource efficiency. Likewise, new investment proposals are assessed against sustainability criteria as part of Fortum’s investment assessment and approval process. In our investments we seek economically profitable alternatives that 
provide the opportunity to increase capacity and reduce emissions. 
We measure financial performance with the return on capital employed (target: at least 
10%) and capital structure (target: comparable net debt/EBITDA around 2.5). The realisation of financial targets in 2017 is reported in the Financial performance and 
position section of the 
Financials. 
Policies and 
commitmentsThe financial management system is based on Group-level policies and their specifying instructions, and on good governance, effective risk management, sufficient controls and 
the internal audit principles supporting them. Other key elements steering financial management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments and in 
Appendix 2. 
Responsibilities The CFO and the Group’s Financial unit, division management, and ultimately the CEO 
and the Board of Directors are responsible for issues related to finances and financial 
statements and for broader financial responsibility issues. Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section 
Governance and  
management. 
Monitoring and follow-upThe Board decides on the company’s financial targets as a part of the annual business planning process. Realisation of the targets is monitored on monthly basis both at the division level and by Fortum Executive Management. Fortum’s management monitors the 
realisation of financial targets quarterly as part of the business performance assessment, 
and key indicators are regularly reported to Fortum’s Board of Directors. Financial key indicators related to investments are monitored in divisions’ investment forums and by 
Fortum Executive Management. We report regularly on the direct and indirect financial 
impacts on our most important stakeholder groups. Fortum also uses the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards indicators to measure economic responsibility. Management of environmental responsibility 
Description
Targets and approachFortum’s aim is to provide its customers with environmentally benign products and services. We strive to continuously reduce the environmental impacts of our operations by using best available practices and technologies. We emphasise a circular economy, resource 
and energy efficiency, the use of waste and biomass, and climate change mitigation in our 
environmental responsibility. 
Our company’s know-how in carbon dioxide-free hydro and nuclear power production 
and in energy-efficient combined heat and power production, investments in solar and wind power, as well as solutions for sustainable cities play a key role in environmental responsibility. We measure the realisation of the environmental responsibility with the 
following indicators, for which we have set 
Group-level targets:
• Specific CO 2 emissions
• Energy efficiency
• Major EHS incidents
• Quality of investigation process of occupational accidents, major EHS incidents, and 
near misses
• GAP index, quality of implementation of EHS minimum standards (2018)
Additionally, we have a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits. 
Policies and commitmentsEnvironmental management is based on Fortum’s Sustainability Policy. Other key elements steering environmental management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments and in Appendix 2.
We assess environmental risks as part of the Group’s risk assessment process. Risk 
assessment process is reported in the section Operating and financial review/Risk management of the 
Financials.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance and  
management.
Monitoring and follow-upThe Group’s key indicators are reported regularly to Fortum’s Board of Directors and are published in Fortum’s Interim Reports. Major EHS incidents are reported monthly, specific carbon dioxide emissions and the quality of investigation process are reported quarterly, 
and energy efficiency improvements as well as the GAP index are reported annually to 
Fortum Executive Management. 
The divisions and sites follow and develop their operations with audits required by 
environmental management systems. Internal and external auditors regularly audit our ISO 14001 standard-compliant management system. 
The CO
2 emissions of plants within the sphere of the EU’s emissions trading scheme are 
audited annually on a per plant basis by an external verifier accredited by the emissions 
trading authority. The verification addresses the reliability, credibility and accuracy of the 
monitoring system and the reported data and information relating to emissions. The plants must annually submit to the authorities a verified emissions report of the previous calendar 
year’s carbon dioxide emissions.
Our supply chain monitoring system covers also environmental responsibility and is 
presented in the section Management of social responsibility: Human rights.We map our stakeholders’ views annually with the One Fortum survey and with separate 
sustainability surveys.Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approachEconomic  
responsibility70
AppendicesManagement of social responsibility: Employees
Description
Targets and 
approachWe aspire to be a responsible employer who invests in the development and wellbeing of our employees. We aim to be a safe workplace for our employees and for the contractors and service providers working for us.
We measure the realisation of the social responsibility with the following indicators, 
for which we have set 
Group-level targets:
• Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF), own personnel (2017)
• Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF), own personnel (2017)
• Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF), contractors (2017)
• Lost workday injury frequency (LWIF), own personnel and contractors (2018) 
• Number of severe occupational accidents
• Quality of investigation process of occupational accidents, major EHS incidents, and near misses
• GAP index, quality of implementation of EHS minimum standards (2018) 
• Percentage of sickness-related absences 
Policies and commitmentsSafety management is based on Fortum’s Sustainability Policy. Other key principles steering labour practices and safety management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments and in Appendix 2. 
We assess safety risks as part of the Group’s risk assessment process. Everyday 
safety management is guided with about 20 Group-level Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) instructions.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section 
Governance and management.
Monitoring and follow-upFortum employee and contractor injury frequencies and the number of serious occupational accidents are reported monthly to Fortum Executive Management. 
The Group’s key indicators are reported regularly to Fortum’s Board of Directors and 
are published in Fortum’s interim reports. The divisions and sites follow and develop their operations with audits required by safety and quality management systems. 
Internal and external auditors regularly audit our OHSAS 18001 standard-compliant 
management system.
Work wellbeing, indicated as a percentage of sickness-related absences is reported 
to the Fortum Executive Management every quarter. In addition, work wellbeing is monitored through other Group-level indicators, such as the ratio between actual retirement age and the statutory start of the retirement pension. Feedback about the 
personnel’s wellbeing and work satisfaction is received also from wellbeing survey as 
part of the Energise Your Day programme and from employee survey. 
We map our stakeholders’ views annually with the One Fortum survey and with 
separate sustainability surveys.Management of social responsibility: Human rights
Description
Targets and approachFortum supports and respects internationally recognised human rights, which are included in the key human rights agreements. Our goal is to operate in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
Our social responsibility includes taking care of our own employees and the 
surrounding communities. We advance responsible operations in our supply chain and more broadly in society. 
We have set a Group-level target for the number of supplier audits. Targets related 
to our own personnel are presented in the section Management of social responsibility: Employees.
Policies and 
commitmentsKey elements steering human rights management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments and in Appendix 2.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance  
and management. 
Monitoring and follow-upThe key tools for monitoring the impacts of human rights are country and partner risk assessments, supplier qualification, and supplier audits. A sustainability assessment is 
carried out for our investment projects and takes into consideration also human rights. The assessments are presented to Fortum Executive Management and to the Board of 
Directors when needed. 
Fortum has set a Group target for the number of audits, and the audits that are 
conducted are reported in our interim reports. For coal, we use the Bettercoal Code and tools in assessing the sustainability of the supply chain.
Monitoring systems related to our own personnel are presented in the section 
Management of social responsibility: Employees.
We map our stakeholders’ views annually with the One Fortum survey and with 
separate sustainability surveys.Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approachEconomic  
responsibility71
AppendicesManagement of social responsibility:  
Business ethics (incl. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery)
Description
Targets and 
approachWe believe that an excellent financial result and ethical business are intertwined. We follow good business practices and ethical principles in all our operations. We work 
within the framework of competition laws and Group competition instructions. We avoid all situations where our own personal interests may conflict with the interests of 
the Fortum Group. Notably, we never accept or give a bribe or other improper payment 
for any reason. 
Our customer relations are based on honesty and trust. We treat our suppliers and 
subcontractors fairly and equally. We select them based on their merit and we expect them to consistently comply with our requirements and with Fortum’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Policies and commitmentsKey elements steering social and compliance management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments and in Appendix 2.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance  
and management.
Monitoring and follow-upSuspected misconduct and measures related to ethical business practices and compliance with regulations are regularly reported to the Fortum Executive 
Management and to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee. 
Fortum has a 
grievance channel available to all stakeholder groups for the 
reporting of misconduct.
Monitoring systems related to the supply chain are presented in the section 
Management of social responsibility: Human rights.Management of social responsibility: Product responsibility
Description
Targets and 
approachUninterrupted supply of energy is necessary for a functioning society. We ensure the reliable operation of our power plants with preventive maintenance and continuous monitoring. 
Our goal is to present products and services truthfully in all our marketing and 
communication materials. We strictly follow responsible marketing communication guidelines and the regulations for environmental marketing. We assume responsibility 
for customer data protection and comply with the valid regulations related to the 
handling of customer data. We have set Group-level targets for the energy availability of CHP plants and for customer satisfaction and reputation indices.
Policies and 
commitmentsKey elements steering product responsibility management are presented in the section 
Policies and commitments and in Appendix 2.
Responsibilities Our sustainability responsibilities are presented in the section Governance  
and management.
Monitoring and follow-upThe Group’s key indicators are reported regularly to Fortum’s Board of Directors and are published in Fortum’s interim reports. 
Figures related to the availability of power plants are reported monthly to Fortum 
Executive Management. 
Customer satisfaction is monitored annually with the One Fortum survey. The results 
of the survey are presented to Fortum’s management and they are used to develop the 
business.Environmental  
responsibilitySocial  
responsibilityReporting principles  
and assuranceSustainability 
approachEconomic  
responsibility72
Appendices Economic 
responsibilityEnvironmental 
responsibilitySocial responsibility
Social and 
employee 
matters  Human rightsAnti-corruption 
and bribery
Values x x x x x
Code of Conduct x x x x x
Supplier Code of Conduct x x x x x
Disclosure Policy x x
Group Risk Policy x x x x x
Sustainability Policy (including environmental, and health 
and safety policies) x x x x x
Minimum Requirements for EHS Management x x x
Biodiversity Manual x
Group Manual for Sustainability Assessment x x x x
Human Resources Policy x x
Leadership Principles x x
Accounting Manual x x x
Investment Manual x x x x
Group Instructions for Anti-Bribery x x x
Group Instructions for Safeguarding Assets x x x
Group Instructions for Conflicts of Interest x x x
Anti-Money-Laundering Manual x x x
Compliance Guidelines for Competition Law x x x
Security Guidelines x x x
Policy for Sponsoring and Donations x x x x
Group Instructions for Compliance Management x x x x xAppendix 2: Fortumʼs main 
internal policies and instructions guiding sustainability
SUSTAINABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION ON OUR WEBSITEContact information