At Fujifilm, we are continuously innovating —  
creating new technologies, products and services  
that inspire and excite people everywhere.
Our goal is to empower the potential and expand the horizons 
of tomorrow’s businesses and lifestyles.
We take an open and flexible attitude to innovation, combining our own original 
technology with human resources, expertise and technology from around the world.Through this powerful synergy, we rapidly and nimbly develop new solutions that address the true needs of our global customers.
[Health]  ................................................................. 17
[Daily Life]  ............................................................. 21
[Environment]  ......................................................... 24
[Working Style]  ....................................................... 2616
Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and working style through our products and services.38
Enhance the CSR framework supporting the corporate activities across the value chain. 28
Solve environmental issues within business processes actively.
[Priority issue 1]  
Promote Global Warming Countermeasures  .................. 30
[Priority issue 2]  Promote Resource Recycling
 ..................................... 34
[Priority issue 3]  Ensure Product and Chemical Safety
 ........................... 36
<Promotion policy 2 > Topics  ...................................... 37[Priority issue 1]  Raise Compliance Awareness and  Ensure Risk Management
 .......................................... 40
[Priority issue 2]  Develop and Utilize Diverse Human Resources
 ............... 45
[Priority issue 3]  Enhance Value Chain Management  from the Viewpoint of CSR
 ........................................ 48
<Promotion policy 3 > Topics  ...................................... 51FUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016 ............. 14Other CSR Activities  ....................................... 53
Social Contribution Activities  .................................. 53
Products and Services which Reflect  Our Customers’ Views
 ........................................... 56
Data and Information  ...................................... 59
Compliance and Risk Management  .......................... 60
Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)  .............. 61
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)  .............................. 62
Environmental Aspects  .......................................... 63
Domestic and International Appraisals  ...................... 67
Sustainability Accounting  (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting,  Environmental Accounting)
 ..................................... 68
Independent Assurance Report  .................................. 70
Third-Party Opinion  ................................................. 71
Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview ......... 72
Editorial Policy  ....................................................... 73Top Commitment  ............................................... 4
Corporate Governance  ............................................ 10
CSR Management  ................................................... 11
<Stakeholders Communication> Topics  ........................ 13
1Promotion
policy
2Promotionpolicy
3Promotionpolicy1Promotionpolicy
2Promotionpolicy
3Promotionpolicy1Promotionpolicy
2Promotionpolicy
3PromotionpolicyCONTENTS
To celebrate the 80th anniversary, the Fujifilm Group unveiled its new corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation,” 
which seeks to continue creating new technologies, products and services that inspire and excite people everywhere,  and empower the potential and expand the horizons of tomorrow’s business and lifestyle. We es-tablished VISION 2016, our Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainable Value Plan 2016, our Medium-Term CSR Plan based on this slogan. We believe that resolving the various social issues in society through its business activities present opportunities for our business growth and at the same time will contribute to society. By creating “new value,” we continue to contribute to the sustainable development of society.Digital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systemsDocument
solutionsHighly
functional
materials
Medium-Term CSR PlanSustainable
Value Plan 2016
Social ValueCorporate Slogan
Medium-Term Management PlanVISION2016
Economic ValueHealthcare
The Fujifilm Group’s Business  ..................................... 6
Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  ...... 8
Corporate Philosophy/Vision/ 
Charter for Corporate Behavior  .................................... 9
3 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 2FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015We Will Seize the Opportunity to 
Provide Value that is Truly Valuable
Achieving certain growth from a 
global viewpoint based on local onsite capabilities
In fiscal 2014, the Japanese economy was improved 
despite the increase in the consumption tax. This im-provement was supported by measures implemented 
by the government and the Bank of Japan. Against this backdrop, efforts by companies to significantly ex-pand their revenues were successful. For fiscal 2015, we must maintain this trend by making use of the ex-pertise of the public and private sectors.
Outside of Japan, the U.S. economy has been 
stable while the EU is facing uncertainties, and the growth of emerging economies has slowed down. China in particular, which has been leading global eco-nomic growth, is showing a decrease in its economic growth rate and we must pay attention to the effects of this movement.
Due to the rapid advancement of information tech-
nologies, the Japanese economy and the global econ-omy are now influencing each other more rapidly and have unquestionably become inseparably connected.
The Fujifilm Group operates across the world 
and has bases in 40 countries, with overseas sales accounting for about 60% of the total. Consequently, we need to monitor both the Japanese economy and the global economy, keep check on the influence they have on each other, and incorporate the findings in our business management rapidly.
In contrast to economic globalization and stand-
ardization, people’s lifestyles and values are becoming more diversified. The key to understanding diversified market needs and creating new businesses and new value is the astute abilities of onsite employees work-ing locally in each region. To ensure the steady growth of business amid dramatic changes in the economy and society, we need to think globally and make use of the abilities of individual employees working locally in each region.
Accomplishing VISION 2016 
The Fujifilm Group celebrated the 80th anniversary of its founding last year and made a fresh start under its new corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation” to contribute to the development of a sustainable socie-ty by creating new value that will meet real customer needs and by resolving social issues. In VISION 2016, our new Medium-Term Management Plan, we set the Top
Commitment
following business targets: sales of 2.630 trillion yen, 
an operating income of 220 billion yen, net income of 120 billion yen, and ROE of 7%.
To achieve these targets, we have positioned 
“Healthcare,” “Highly Functional Materials,” and “Document Solutions” as our core businesses to drive growth in the Group, and have been proactive in pro-moting sales, creating new products, and investing in these businesses. We are working to boost profitability in all our businesses, and in fiscal 2014, the first year of our Plan, we achieved consolidated sales of 2.492 tril-lion yen (a year on year increased 2.2%), an operating income of 172.4 billion yen (an increased of 22.4%), and a net income of 118.6 billion yen (an increased of 46.4%), thus making a favorable start to the plan.
We are expanding our “G-up” activities to increase 
the capabilities of individual employees working onsite, and making the entire Group more competitive.
The business environment is constantly changing, 
but we will make concerted efforts across the Group to achieve VISION 2016, capitalizing on the abilities of our onsite employees.
Fostering CSR activities to make a 
bigger contribution to solving social issues
Last year, prior to the start of VISION 2016, we 
launched our Sustainable Value Plan 2016 (SVP 2016), 
our Medium-Term CSR Plan. In SVP 2016, we made a commitment to implementing new CSR activities in addition to giving consideration to the environment and society in our business processes, including cre-ating value for society and contributing to resolving so-cial issues. We are involved in a range of activities and working to create new businesses based on this Plan.
For global warming, which is a major priority for 
the international community, we are proactively reduc-ing CO
2 emissions by promoting sales of anti-global 
warming, highly durable photovoltaic backsheets, generating our own electricity on our business sites, and implementing energy-saving measures in our of-fices and factories.
In the healthcare field, we are strongly committed 
to the regenerative medicine business to meet unmet medical needs. In fiscal 2014, FUJIFILM Corporation released materials necessary for cell cultivation for re-generative medicine onto the market as a reagent for research use. We also made Japan Tissue Engineering Co., Ltd., the only Japanese company to have obtained government approval for regenerative medi-cine products, and announced our intention to acquire Cellular Dynamics International, Inc., a world leader in iPS cell technology. By combining these companies’ technologies with the findings on collagen and engi-neering technologies we have accumulated over our many years engaged in the field of photography, we will further expand our business in the field of regen-erative medicine. We will continue to make use of the wide range of technologies possessed by our Group and encourage collaboration with a range of organiza-tions and companies to develop and spread products that are valuable to society as we steadily implement SVP2016.
Aiming to cut lead times by half
The year 2015 is the deadline year for the eight U.N. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which include the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger. In September this year the United Nations will announce the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be reached by 2030. Also in December 2015, the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) will be held for the parties to discuss and make agree-ments on their new greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2020 onwards. All peoples, organizations and companies in the world need to make increasingly swift efforts in their respective capacities to solve the problems of our societies, which are becoming more serious every year.
At the start of this fiscal year, I sent a message to 
employees to encourage them to reduce lead times by half. It is critical to take prompt action in this constantly changing economic environment and in the face of a variety of interwoven social problems. There is no time to lose if we want to solve global warming and other issues. We must become the first runner keep provid-ing society with new value without delay that we have created through innovation. This is what the Group aims to do through its “Value from Innovation” initiative.
“Sustainable development” is a shared hope of 
humankind, and companies also need to struggle to-wards it as going concerns. In the Fujifilm Group we will foster constant innovation in every process of our business activities and provide society with propi-tious new value without delay in pursuit of sustainable development.
August 2015
Shigetaka KomoriChairman and Chief Executive Officer
4FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 5 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Business /f_ields in which
we can exert our
technological strengths
and offer high added valueDigital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systemsDocument
solutionsHighly
functional
materialsHealthcareBusiness /f_ields in which 
social demand is strong
and high growth
can be expectedThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
The Fujifilm Group regards the following six businesses as its priority business fields: health-
care, highly functional materials, document solutions, graphic systems, optical devices, and digital imaging. These are fields in which we can demonstrate our strengths in terms of tech-nology and market position. These fields are also in high social demand, and, therefore, we can expect high growth. Health, energy, and information are the key social elements today to support a sustainable society, and there are many related issues to be addressed. Our health-care, highly functional materials, and document solutions businesses are closely linked to these elements—which is why we have positioned these three businesses as core businesses to drive our overall enterprise.
Through the promotion of our Medium-Term Management Plan “VISION 2016” created 
under our corporate slogan “Value from Innovation,” we hope to deepen the coordination between business growth and resolution of social issues and to work to become a company that continues to contribute to the society through our sustainable growth.
In November 2014, the Fujifilm Group enacted its Medium-Term 
Management Plan, VISION 2016. Under our new corporate slo-gan, “Value from Innovation,” created to coincide with the 80th year anniversary of its foundation, we understand that solving a variety of social issues by creating new value through our leading-edge and proprietary technology is its opportunity for business growth. Concretely, we plan to expand our market by providing products that fully meet customer needs focusing on our business fields of healthcare, highly functional materials, and document as the growth drivers. We also intend to improve our profitability in all businesses by improving productivity. With these efforts, we aim at achieving sales of 2.63 trillion yen and an operating profit of 220 billion yen, the highest in our history, in FY2016. We also plan to enhance the shareholder returns to achieve Return On Equity (ROE) from 4.2% in FY2013 to 7%. 
In VISION 2016, the Fujifilm Group declared that we will en-
hance our business portfolio where stable growth in the medium to long term can be expected and aim to be a company that can contribute to society with sustainable growth.VISION 2016, a Medium-Term Management Plan for FY2014 to FY2016  
aiming for further growth and increased corporate value
Concept of VISION 2016,
the Medium-Term Management Plan
Firm and strong management base
Stable generation of pro/f_it and cash
Enhancement of shareholder returnsPro/f_itability improvement
in all businesses
Improve proﬁtability by im-proving productivity and efﬁ-ciency in every corporate activity while maintaining business scale and advan-tages.Accelerate growth of
core businesses
Expand sales, market share, and operating income using growth drivers of Healthcare, Highly Functional Materials, and Document business ﬁelds, with new product launches. Strategic use of M&A. 
Achieve record-high pro/f_its and improve ROE
Further increase of pro/f_it by utilizing cash that can be
generated stably and be a company that can successfully
contribute to society with sustainable growth.Ful/f_ill its business portfolio to realize
stable growth in medium to long term
FUJIFILM Middle East FZE ●●FUJIFILM Europe GmbH
●
●●
●FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox (China) Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. FUJIFILM Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Australia Pty. Ltd.FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation
FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda.
●26  companies
6 companies
61  companies48  companiesEurope Area
North America Area
Latin America Area Middle East/Africa Area
Asia Paciﬁc AreaChina/Hong Kong/Taiwan/Korea Area
41  companies
3 companies■Overseas   As of March 31, 2015
As a global company with 273 consolidated companies inside and outside Japan, we are expanding our business in many countries and regions across the world. Not only our sales networks but also our production systems are globalized with factories in the Netherlands, the U.S., China, and several other countries. Businesses expansion is also accelerating in the rap-idly growing emerging countries, including BRICs, Turkey, Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
Healthcare
●Medical systems (X-ray diagnostic 
imaging systems, endoscopes, etc.)
●Pharmaceuticals (low-molecular phar-
maceuticals and biopharmaceuticals)
●Regenerative medicine
（autologous cultured epidermis/cartilage）
●Life sciences (functional cosmetics and 
supplement products)Highly functional materials
●Flat panel display materials
(film materials for LCDs)
● Industrial materials and electronic 
materials
(non-destructive testing equipments, semiconductor processing materials, new materials, etc.)Document solutions
●Office products and office printers
●Production services 
(digital printing systems)
●Global services 
(solution proposals through company docu-
ment and business process improvement)
Digital imaging Optical devices Graphic systems
●Electronic imaging 
(digital cameras)
●Photo imaging 
(photographic films, photo books, and film processing/printing services)●Optical devices
(TV camera lenses/cine lenses, lenses for security cameras and camera modules for smartphones)●Materials and equipment for  graphic arts 
(CTP plates)
●Industrial inkjet printers and inks
6 7 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015
The roots of CSR are the trust of stakeholders and consideration for the environment
The Fujifilm Group’s business originated with photographic film, a product for which lots of clean water and 
fresh air are essential to the manufacturing process. It is also a product which requires customers to “buy on trust,” since they cannot try it out beforehand. Thus, for the Fujifilm Group, an approach which emphasizes environmental conservation and maintaining the trust of stakeholders has been a major premise at the very foundations of our business activities. This approach is the starting point for our corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities and continues to be passed down within our group, as the Fujifilm Group’s “DNA.”
Fujifilm Group established a current Corporate Philosophy and Vision following the shift to a holding com-
pany structure in 2006. Founded on the spirit of contribution to advancement of society, improved health, environment protection and enhancement of the quality of life of people, by providing top-quality products and services with open, fair and clear workplace culture and leading-edge, proprietary technologies, we have established the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct and implement them thoroughly throughout the Group.
In the Charter for Corporate Behavior, we uphold five principles, including “Respect for Human Rights,” 
while in the Code of Conduct we define compliance as “more than simply not breaking the law and acting correctly in the light of common sense and ethics,” and declare that all Group employees, including senior executives, will conduct themselves in line with these action guidelines.
Moreover we have made the following statement to encourage all Fujifilm Group employees to commit 
themselves to the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in their daily business operations: The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to corporate social responsibility is to contribute to the sustainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.
In 2014, we revised the Approach to CSR in order to identify the social challenges and more actively seek 
their solutions under the new corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation,” established to coincide with our 80th anniversary.We will follow this new approach and slogan in further promoting our CSR activities.Fujifilm Group’s Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR)
FUJIFILM Ashigara site located in an 
environment blessed with copious clean air and water, and its water source and water conservation forest
Marking the 80th anniversary of its foundation on January 20, 2014, the 
Fujifilm Group established a new corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation,” and a brand statement. This slogan and brand statement were created after elaborating the idea of “the ideal future for the Fujifilm Group” based on comments submitted from our employees across the world in our pro-motion year. We intend to promote our approach to expanding our potential to the future, such as resolving social issues through our innovative “tech-nology,” “products” and “services.”
In FY2014, we conducted a campaign to reinforce our brand worldwide 
to disseminate the concept and aim of the slogan and statement to every employee so that they can contribute to realizing “Value from Innovation” in their work roles.
Major internal and external activities to promote and realize  
“Value from Innovation”
•   Corporate advertisements in newspapers, magazines, and websites in and out of Japan
•   Questionnaire to employees (Response from 11,300 individuals in Japan and overseas on 
brand image etc.)
•   Publication and distribution of related leaflets
•   Commencement of the Innovation Idea Proposals Program that can be used by all em-
ployees across the world
•   Publication of interviews with the management of each business division Let’s begin “Value 
from Innovation!” on in-house magazines and intranet across the world
•   FUJIFILM Value from Innovation Award (award scheme within the Group)Leaflets Innovation—Taking the First 
Step Forward and Value from Innovation distributed to employees to deepen their understanding of the concept of “Value from Innovation” and encourage positive action.Working to manage the brand through a corporate slogan, 
“Value from Innovation” 
FUJIFILM Value from Innovation Award 
to boost morale among employees by celebrating teams and employees who make an outstanding achievement in different workplaces Corporate advertise-ment in newspapers and magazines (made in both Japanese and English)The Fujifilm Group’s Approach  
to CSR
The Fujifilm Group’s approach to corporate 
social responsibility is to contribute to the sus-tainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sin-cere and fair business activities.
We will not only fulfill our economic and legal 
responsibilities,
but also:1.   endeavor to understand global as well as local envi-
ronmental and social issues and create value to ad-
dress these issues through our business activities.
2.   continue to evaluate the environmental and social 
impact of our business activities and strive to im-prove the performance while increasing our positive impact on society.
3.   constantly reassess whether our activities are re-
sponding adequately to the demands and expec-tations of society through proactive stakeholder en-gagement with our stakeholders.
4.   enhance corporate transparency by actively disclos-
ing information.Ethical conduct on the basis of
the rules for Corporate Behavior
[ Corporate Philosophy ]
Sustainable
Society
Creating
new valueCorporate Slogan
FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016[Medium-Term CSR Plan]Creating new technologies, 
products and services that inspire 
and excite people everywhere 
to empower the potential and 
expand the horizons of tomorrow’s 
businesses and lifestyles
Solving social 
issues through 
our business 
activitiesConsidering 
society and the 
environment in 
our business 
processes
■The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR
1. A Trusted Company
We develop and provide socially beneficial products and services 
of the highest quality using advanced and original technologies in a safe and responsible manner. Based on an open, fair and clear corporate climate, we create new values in a spirit of appropriate competition and fair dealing, continually striving to satisfy custom-ers and other stakeholders and earn their trust. 
2. Social Responsibility
We communicate with customers, local communities, sharehold-ers and other members of society, conduct appropriate and fair disclosure of corporate information, comply with laws, regulations, and other rules, and uphold public order and morals. As good corporate citizens, we strive to correctly understand and respect local cultures and customs and to actively engage in public inter -
est activities, especially those that contribute to local community development.3. Respect for Human Rights
We respect and protect fundamental human and labor rights set out in international declarations. We reject the use of forced labor or child labor in any form.
4. Global Environmental Conservation
Recognizing that positive involvement in the resolution of environ-mental issues is an essential part of a corporation’s social role and activities, we act voluntarily and proactively to help preserve the global environment.
5. Vibrant Workplaces
We strive to develop the skills of all employees, to provide safe and comfortable workplaces, and to respect diversity, individuality and differences.Charter for Corporate BehaviorWe will use leading-edge, proprietary technologies to provide top-quality products and services that contribute to the advancement of culture, science, technology and industry, as well as improved health and envi-ronmental protection in society. Our overarching aim is to help enhance the quality of life of people worldwide.
We will create new values by integrating our distinctive and leading-edge 
technologies as well as turning out proprietary technologies to continue pro-viding top-quality products and services that cultivate customer trust and satisfaction.
Through these efforts we will transcend past boundaries of “Imaging and 
Information” to advance the development of culture, science, technology and industry across society and furthermore improve human health and protect the environment.
Our new corporate philosophy is based on the recognition that our mis-
sion, through our sustained corporate activities, is to significantly contribute to the realization of a society in which all people across the world can lead lives that are abundant in spiritual as well as material wealth with a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction.Anchored by an open, fair and clear corporate culture and with leading-edge, proprietary technologies, Fujifilm is determined to remain a leading company by boldly taking up the challenge of developing new products and creating new values.
We will create an open, fair and clear workplace culture that 
allows us to discern objective facts in a sincere and straight-forward manner, make rational decisions, and continuously take on challenges with courage.
With this corporate culture, we will further hone our 
leading-edge, proprietary technologies and develop innova-tive products and services that gain customer trust and pro-vide satisfaction to remain a vigorous company, consistently creating new value and exercising pioneering leadership.Corporate Philosophy Vision
 Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior (full text)  
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/philosophy/conduct/index.html Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct 
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/philosophy/law/index.html
8 9 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015
Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Corporate Governance
FUJIFILM Holdings has positioned the board of directors as 
the organization for determining basic Group management policies and strategies and other important matters relat-ing to business execution, as well as supervising the im-plementation of business affairs. The company’s Articles of Incorporation stipulate that the board can consist of up to 12 directors. Currently, the board has 12 directors, includ-ing two outside director. To better clarify their missions and responsibilities, the directors have a one-year term of office. The attendance of outside directors to the board of direc-tors meetings held during the term ended March 2015 was 83% (10 meetings in total). Additionally, FUJIFILM Holdings has adopted an executive officer system to facilitate speed-ier business execution. Executive officers carry out business affairs in accordance with the basic policies and strategies formulated by the board of directors. Meanwhile, FUJIFILM Holdings has adopted a remuneration system under the stock option program* to make its directors and executive of-ficers, excluding outside directors, share a mutual interest—the effect of stock price fluctuations—with its shareholders. In this way, the directors and executive officers are in actual fact encouraged to have stronger drive and morale toward achieving higher corporate value.
* Stock option program: Company’s program whereby directors or employees 
are granted a right to purchase the company stock as a part of compensa-
tion for their work, at a price established in advance and within a designated period of time.
FUJIFILM Holdings has adopted a system of Audit & 
Supervisory Board, which currently consists of four members, including two outside members. Each Audit & Supervisory Board member attends the board of directors, while full-time members attend all Management Council meetings in order to assess our overall business operations.
The attendance of outside auditors to the Board of 
Directors meetings held during the term ended March 2015 was 100% (10 meetings in total). Also, the attendance of outside auditors to the Audit & Supervisory Board meetings held during the term ended March 2015 was 100% (10 meet-ings in total). In addition, FUJIFILM Holdings has the Internal Audit Division with a staff of eight, which is independent of the business execution divisions. The division is responsible for auditing the Group companies, in cooperation with or sharing tasks with the internal audit divisions of such compa-nies, in order to assess and verify that the execution of these processes is fair and valid.Corporate Governance Structure
Audit▼Corporate Governance Structure
Business Execution
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. TOYAMA CHEMICAL CO., LTD. FUJIFILM CorporationExecutive Of/f_icers Internal Auditing UnitManagement CouncilPresident, Representative Director & COOChairman, Representative Director & CEOBoard of Directors
◎Determination of Group management policies and strategies
◎Decision of important matters relating to business execution
◎Supervision of business executionShareholders’ Meeting
Audit & Supervisory
BoardIndependent
Auditors
PersonnelCorporate
PlanningGeneral
AdministrationCorporate
R&DLegal CSRPublic Relations/
IRCompliance & Risk Management
CSR Committee
Fujiﬁlm Group Charter for
Corporate BehaviorConsultation Of/f_ices
Fujiﬁlm Group Code of Conduct
Various GuidelinesCSR Division
(Secretariat)For further details of the Corporate Governance,  
please refer to
 
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/governance/index.htmlCSR Management
We established our Approach to CSR in 2006 in view of the 
importance of CSR in achieving sustainable growth in an age of tumultuous changes in the business environment, and of its value not only to top management but to each and every employee. Subsequently, seven policy statements (the Green Policy, Social Contribution Policy, Guidelines for Biodiversity, Procurement Policy, Quality Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Global Security Trade Control Policy) have been established and implemented.
The Fujifilm Group established the CSR Committee 
chaired by the President of FUJIFILM Holdings. The Committee takes decisions to promote the CSR activi-ties of the entire Group. The CSR Department of FUJIFILM Holdings, which is the Secretariat of the CSR Committee, is responsible ensuring rigorous CSR management by the Fujifilm Group. The CSR Department prepares the ground for various activities, discloses information outside, com-municates with stakeholders, supports the CSR activities of Group companies, and audits the CSR activities of the entire Group.
The CSR department in each Group Company prepares 
and implements specified plans according to the overall Group CSR plan. It reviews the annual results and reports on activities to the FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Committee. The Group as a whole moves our CSR activities forward with a sense of unity.
Companies conduct their activities while interacting and maintaining relations with a wide variety of stakeholders, and it is important to listen carefully to their various views and expectations. At the Fujifilm Group, we ensure that we make appropriate information disclosures as well as verifying, at various opportunities, whether or not our business activities are responding to the demands and expectations of all our stakeholders, and reflecting our findings in our business ac-tivities. To ensure that our stakeholders’ views are reflected in our CSR activities, we also review them in our Sustainability Report.In addition to opinions relating to our CSR activities as a whole, regarding priority issues such as the promotion of anti-global warming measures, the promoting body for each issue conducts briefings on the content of the activities and presents the respective report to external parties, to receive their advice and evaluation.* Looking back over our activi-ties and obtaining the views of external parties in this way provides a good opportunity to reexamine our activities. We plan to continue these efforts to make them better activities in the future.
*See pages 33, 47, 70, 71.The Fujifilm Group’s CSR Promotion System and Related Policies
Communication with Stakeholders
The Fujiﬁlm Group’s Approach to CSRFujiﬁlm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code of ConductFujiﬁlm Group Corporate Philosophy and Vision
Fujiﬁlm Group
Social Contribution
Policy
Adopted April 2008Fujiﬁlm Group
Guidelines
for Biodiversity
Adopted June 2009Fujiﬁlm Group
Procurement Policy
Revised March 2015Fujiﬁlm Group
Quality Policy
Adopted January 2010Fujiﬁlm Group
Occupational Health
and Safety Policy
Adopted January 2010Fujiﬁlm Global
Security Trade
Control Policy
Adopted May 2015
*Visit our website for each PolicyAdopted April 2002Fujiﬁlm Group
Green Policy
(Environmental Policy)* “Corporate Philosophy and 
Vision”
 “Charter for Corporate 
Behavior and Code of 
Conduct”
 “Approach to CSR”
 (See page 9 and website.)▼The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR and Related PoliciesOperating CompaniesFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
CSR department of the operating companiesTo fulﬁll CSR:
●Formulate and implement CSR activity plan
●Ensure thorough compliance and conduct risk management●Promote communication with stakeholders
●Report CSR measures to FUJIFILM Holding’s CSR Committee● Apply policies and strategic objectives 
(determined by the CSR Committee across the entire Fujiﬁlm Group)
● Implement and manage progress of priority issues and initiatives as determined by the CSR Committee across the Fujiﬁlm Group
● Support the Fujiﬁlm Group’s CSR activities (collect information and conduct analysis and evaluation)
● Promote public information disclosure and dialogues with stakeholders
● Audit the Fujiﬁlm Group’s CSR activitiesFUJIFILM
CorporationFuji Xerox
Co., Ltd.TOYAMA CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.FUJIFILM Business
Expert CorporationCSR Committee
●Deliberate and decide basic policies　 ●Deliberate and decide priority issues and initiatives
Chairman: President of FUJIFILM HoldingsFor CSR-related items of 
the Fujiﬁlm GroupCSR Committee Secretariat
(CSR division of FUJIFILM Holdings function)
Shared Services Company▼The Fujifilm Group’s CSR Promotion System
10 11 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fujifilm started the G-up activity in 2012 to clarify “what” should be undertaken 
by each department and individual staff members to resolve workplace issues with aim of reinforcing the frontline working skills. President Nakajima holds the Opportunity for Dialogue across the world in order to promote the G-up concept through explaining the background, aim, and his intention behind the activity face-to-face with employees, and also to listen to what the employees think about the President’s ideas. By 2014, nearly 50 sessions had been held in do-mestic and overseas business sites and affiliated companies with almost 5,000 attendants. The number of his visits to overseas subsidiaries alone reached 10, demonstrating the President’s eager -
ness for close com-munications with the company’s staff. 
The Fujifilm Group holds Environmental Communication Meeting 
in different business sites in Japan to disclose information about our environmental conservation activities as a member of local community and also to receive comments from community mem-bers. In FY2014, Fujifilm Kyushu (FFQ) held its first Environmental Communication Meeting with the help of Kikuyomachi Town in Kumamoto Prefecture, where the company is located. 
The meeting, divided into Parts 1 and 2, was attended by 
some 30 people, including local residents. Part 1 comprised an ex -
planatory presentation and factory tour, and Part 2 was a discus -
sion led by Dr. Ryota Shinohara, Honorary Professor, Prefectural University of Kumamoto as moderator, and with Dr. Daisuke Ueno, Associate Professor, Department of Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Saga University as chemical substance Environmental Communication Meeting to directly 
exchange opinions with local stakeholders
advisor. The meet-
ing attendants in -
cluded local junior high school stu-dents who actively submitted a number of questions.
Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory held its regular Environmental 
Communication Meeting in February 2015 for the residents in Onakazato region in Fujinomiya City, Shizuoka Prefecture. The meeting welcomed 56 attendants, including the environmental officers of Shizuoka Prefecture and Fujinomiya City, as well as local community members and junior high school students. This resulted in more active discussions than usual. This meeting marked its 10th anniversary and our efforts are highly valued as one of few companies in the prefecture that continue such en -
vironmental communication in the local community. We plan to increase the opportunities for communication with local govern -
ment bodies and other companies in the area to promote further interaction with the community from the environmental viewpoint. 
The Fujifilm Group is planning to continue to hold 
Environmental Communication Meetings to exchange opinions with the local communities and further promote our environmen-tal and safety activities. 
The social interest in CSR is increasing in China, therefore pub-lishing information about Fujifilm Group’s efforts in solving social challenges in China is important in terms of both communica-tion with customers and improvements of the corporate brand. In response to this social trend, Fujifilm (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (FFCN) published its own Fujifilm China Sustainability Report 2014 for the first time in December 2014. The Report presents the article “Realizing Sustainable Growth Along with China” and a number of specific examples of nine group companies’ contribution in the sustainable devel-opment of society through providing a variety of values to every stakeholder in China, including FFCN.
 Fujifilm China Sustainability Report 2014   http://www.fujifilm.com.cn/sustainability/fujifilm_china/report/index.htmlFujifilm China issued its own Sustainability Report 2014, summarizing activities in China
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. (U.S.A.)
FUJIFILM North America Corporation (U.S.A.)
FUJIFILM Europe GmbH (Germany)
 FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda (Brazil)
▼The Fujifilm Group’s Communications with Stakeholders★: Further details are included in the Sustainability Report.Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
CSR Management
Main StakeholdersMain Issues and  
Areas of ResponsibilityMethods of Communication
CustomersWe have a diverse range of customers, 
from individuals, businesses, corporations to government offices, etc., since we have business deployed all over the world, and we offer such a wide lineup of products, ranging from digital cameras and cosmetics to office printers, medical systems, medicine, highly functional materials and equipment and materials for graphic arts.● Securing the safety and quality of 
products
● Design for the Environment ★page 32
● Provision of appropriate information on 
services & products
● Improvement of customer satisfaction 
levels ★page 56
● Customer response & support  
★page 56● Customer Center (liaison office for responding to 
inquiries)
● Usability evaluation meetings and monitor surveys
● Customer satisfaction surveys
● Questionnaires at product purchase
● Showrooms, exhibitions
● Holding seminars
● Websites and social media
EmployeesEmployees working for the Fujifilm Group total approx. 80,000 people in 273 companies. They are active all over the world and their composition by country is Japan 49.3%, the U.S. 7.8%, Europe 6.0% and Asia 36.9% (as of end-March 2015).● Ensuring occupational health and 
safety ★page 43
● Respect for human rights ★page 44
● Utilization and training of human 
resources ★page 45
● Respect for diversity ★page 46● Providing opportunities for dialogue with top 
management
● Personnel management division liaison & 
interviews
● Compliance & Sexual Harassment Helpline
● Regular meetings between the company and labor 
unions/Health & Safety Committee
● Intranet; in-house magazines
Shareholders 
& investorsFUJIFILM Holdings has 122,486 shareholders, characterized by a high proportion of overseas and institutional investors. Foreign companies constitute40.2% of our shareholders, while Japanese financial institutions account for 32.8% (as of end-March 2015).● Maintenance and expansion of 
corporate value
● Appropriate redistribution of profits
● Timely & appropriate information 
disclosure
● Measures for Socially Responsible 
Investment (SRI) ★page 67● General shareholders meetings/Business report 
briefings/Briefings for investors
● IR conferences/Individual meetings
● Annual reports/Shareholder communications
● IR information website
● Liaison office for responding to inquiries (Corporate 
Communication Office)
Transaction 
partnersThe Fujifilm Group conducts transactions worldwide with suppliers of raw materials and components and retailers of our products, etc.● Thorough implementation of fairness & 
transparency in transactions
● Promotion of CSR issues in the supply 
chain, such as human rights and the environment 
★page 48● Briefings to suppliers (on green supply, 
management of chemical substances contained, etc.)
● CSR questionnaires (self-audited)
● Website for exclusive use of transaction partners
● Regular discussions with partners
● Liaison office for responding to inquiries (in each 
procurement and sales division)
Future  
generations  
& local  
societiesThe Fujifilm Group has bases in approx. 40 countries across the world and conducts its activities by treating the local culture and customs with respect, as well as putting efforts into educational support for future generations.● Contribution activities which make use 
of our main business strengths  
★page 53
● Respecting local culture & customs 
and environmental conservation  
★page 53
● Prevention of fires and accidents in the 
workplace
● Educational support for future 
generations ★page 53● Environmental communication meetings/Factory 
tours
● Community volunteer activities
● Regular discussions with local governments (city 
hall, mayor, community association presidents, etc.)
● Liaison offices (at each factory & office)
● Dispatch of lecturers to the academic organization 
& endowed chairs
● Environmental education activities in cooperation 
with NGOs & NPOs
Government 
organizations 
& industrial 
associationsThe Fujifilm Group has businesses in countries all over the world. Each of these businesses belongs to several industrial associations and has active relations with the respective government organizations, including participating in collaborations and information exchanges, etc.● Legal compliance ★page 40
● Joint research & development and 
cooperation in public policy aimed at the resolution of social issues● Participation in various industrial committees
● Participation in the development of industry 
guidelines
● Announcement of public comments through 
industry associations
● Joint research & development of government or 
industry association
● Proposals aimed at the resolution of social issues
NGOs &  
NPOsWe are conducting dialogues with NGOs & NPOs who are actively aiming for a sustainable society, for the resolution of social issues and environmental conservation.● Dialogue, collaboration and support 
aimed at the resolution of social and environmental issues 
★page 11● Obtain views on the Sustainability Report
● Participate in stakeholder dialogue
● Administration committee of Public Trust Fujifilm 
Green Fund
● Review meetings on various CSR issues
● Afflicted area support activities with NPO
Tokyo Service Station moved to Tokyo 
Midtown in 2014IR information on the web Activities with the local community(Fujifilm Kyushu’s 
Sakura Festival )In-house magazines for internal communicationFactory tour in an environmental  
conservation facilityPresenting the Fujifilm Group’s  environmental efforts
Wastewater treatment process explained  in the Fujinomiya Factory“Opportunity for Dialogue” offered by President Nakajima  
to disseminate the G-up activity across the worldStakeholder Communication
12 13 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Social Background & Basic Approach
At present, global warming and other environmental issues 
are in a state of crisis. In addition, social issues such as hu-man rights and social disparity are becoming ever more seri-ous. This in turn drives society to expect global corporations with greater influential power to take actions towards resolv-ing such issues. At the same time, corporations are changing their approach to CSR by taking the initiative in identifying and solving social issues as an opportunity for their renewed growth, rather than simply reacting to regulations and re-quests. Thus, the relationship between CSR and business activities is becoming closer than ever.
Since the Fujifilm Group’s first Medium-Term CSR Plan 
was created in 2007, immediately after FUJIFILM Holdings was established, we have promoted CSR activities in a sys-tematic manner. This latest plan—our third—reflects the idea of “Contributing to solving social issues through products, services, and technologies.” We enhance collaboration be-tween our business activities and social issues under the heightened expectation for the global companies to solve the worsening environmental and social issues. By this re-flection, we embody our CSR Approach, “to contribute to the sustainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.” In addition to resolving social issues through its innovative technologies, products and services in the four priority areas related to the driving forces that VISION 2016 focuses on (healthcare, highly functional materials and doc-ument solutions), the company will reinforce and expand by aggressively tackling environmental issues in its business ac-tivities and its CSR basis for activities on a worldwide scale.
The Fujifilm Group aims to be a company that contrib-
utes to “the sustainable development of society” by actively creating “new values” to resolve the various social issues that we face.Under the corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation,” established to coincide 
with our 80th anniversary, the Fujifilm Group has created a new Medium-Term CSR Plan covering FY2014 to FY2016, titled,“Sustainable Value Plan 2016” (SVP 2016), and commenced work on its implementation. Through SVP 2016, we are actively putting our Approach to CSR into practice: “to contribute to the sustain-able development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.”
FUJIFILM
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Solving social issues through business activitiesFUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Conscious on environmental and social impact within business processesEnvironmentHealth Daily Life
Working
          Style
Promotion
policy2Promotionpolicy3Promotionpolicy1
Contribute to solving social 
issues concerning the environment, 
people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products 
and services.
Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.1. Promote communications 
that transcend the 
information barrier
2. Promote diversity1. Improve accessibility to medical services
2. Contribute to identifying diseases at an 
early stage
3. Response unmet medical needs4. Promotion of health and contribution to 
beauty1. Contribute to creating a safe 
and secure society
2. Contribute to enriching 
humanity and relationships
1. Global warming 
countermeasures 
2. Response to water 
problems
3. Response to energy 
issues
1. Promote global warming 
countermeasures
2. Promote resource recycling3. Ensure product and 
chemical safety1. Raise compliance awareness 
and ensure risk management
2. Develop and utilize diverse 
human resources
3. Enhance value chain 
management from the 
viewpoint of CSREnhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.Creating the Triple Promotion Policy
1. Clarifying the Basic Policies
The latest Medium-Term CSR Plan clarified the focus of our 
CSR activities by reviewing previous CSR activities and in-vestigating trends in society and other companies’ activities. In addition to continuation and reinforcement of the exist-ing CSR activities, “Exhaustive governance and compliance and reduction of impact on environment and society” and “Keeping an extended view across the value chain, life cycle, and world-wide,” we have made it clear in the Basic Policies that we will expand the scope of “Actively aim to solve social issues through our business activities,” which was already in operation.
2.   Extracting Social Issues Based on Business Strategy
In extracting the social and environmental issues to address, we listed approximately 130 items based on ISO 26000 (in-ternational guidelines for social responsibility of business and organizations), the GRI Guidelines (international sustainability reporting guidelines), and the primary issues faced by other companies in the same industry and corporations with ad-vanced CSR practices.
Also, we discussed the possibility of contribution to solv-
ing social issues among all business divisions, and clarified the possible products, services, and technologies by each division.
3. Evaluation of Materiality
As it is difficult to evaluate materiality of both “measures to solve social issues through business” and “conscious on en-vironmental and social impact” in the same manner, we took two approaches for evaluation.
1) Solving social issues through business activities
We created a matrix of social issues and our products, ser -
vices, and technologies that may contribute to solving such issues. Next, the size of potential contribution as well as the size of impact on society, were assessed to identify the social issues.
2)   Conscious on environmental and social impact within 
business processes
With the participation of E-Square Inc., a professional CSR 
consultancy, the social issues identified are rated on two axes; from the social point of view (how important society be-lieves the resolution of the issue is and what society expects the Fujifilm Group to do about it) and the corporate point of view (impact on business strategy, brand and reputation) and mapped on five levels. Issues that were rated four or higher on both axes were organized and reviewed as suitable ex-pressions and defined as priority issues.
4. Planning, Review, and Approval
We set a goal for each priority issues. The environmental and HR divisions of operating companies which promote each priority issue played a central role to quantify their goals by looking back over its activities. Priority issues and Materiality Mapping for Extracting Priority Issues
5
4
3
2
1
1 2 3 4 5
Materiality for Fuji/f_ilm Group
Promotion 1 related items Promotion 3 related items Others Promotion 2 related itemsSocial interests and requestsExpand
the scopeContinue &
reinforce
Maintain &
reinforce
Company-wide
effortsExpand
the scopeFY2007-2009Medium-Term
CSR Plan
FY2010-2013Medium-Term
CSR Plan
FY2014-2016New Medium-Term
CSR Plan
Priority issues
(Legal compliance and taking responsibility
as a corporate citizen)
● Solve social issues 
through business activities 
actively● Across the value chain, 
product lifecycles, and 
world-wide● Thorough implementation 
of sound corporate 
governance and compliance
● Reduction of impact on 
environment and society
Matrix on Social Issues and Fujifilm Group’s Products, Services, 
and Technologies
Business fields Social issues Medical PharmaceuticalsHighly 
functional 
materialsDocument 
solution・・・・
EnvironmentReduce CO 2 emissions ●● ●●●●● ●●●●
Energy issues ● ●●● ●●●
・・・・・・ ●● ●
Exhaustion of resources ● ●●
・・・・・・ ● ●●
HealthImprove accessibility to medical services●●●●● ●●
Identify diseases at an early stage ●●●●●
・・・・・・ ●●●
Reduce doctor’s burden ●●
・・・・・・ ● ● ●
Daily LifeEnrich humanity and relationships ●● ●●●●
Create a safe and secure society ●●● ● ●
・・・・・・ ● ●
・・・・・・ ●
Working stylesPromote communications ●●●
Promote diversity ●● ●
・・・・・・ ●
・・・・・・
Medium-Term CSR Plan were discussed and formulated at 
the CSR Committee chaired by the President of FUJIFILM Holdings. 
In order to assure accuracy of data on the environment and 
society featured in the Sustainability Report, activities in FY2014 underwent third-party verification. (See page 70.) We will now further our activities throughout the Group to-wards achievement of the Medium-Term CSR Plan.
15 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 14 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, 
daily life, and working style 
through our products and services.
page 17 page 21 page 24 page 26FUJIFILM
Sustainable Value Plan2016
Environment Health Daily LifeWorking
        StylePromotion 
policy 1
1. Promote communications 
that transcend the 
information barrier
2. Promote diversity1. Improve accessibility to 
medical services
2. Contribute to identifying 
diseases at an early stage
3. Response unmet medical 
needs
4. Promotion of health and 
contribution to beauty1. Contribute to creating a 
safe and secure society
2. Contribute to enriching 
humanity and relationships1. Global warming 
countermeasures 
2. Response to water 
problems
3. Response to energy issuesContribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services.
In Sustainable Value Plan 2016, the Group plans to realize its CSR policy “to corporate 
social responsibility is to contribute to the sustainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities” by addressing 11 social issues through innovative technologies, products and services in the four priority areas of the Health, Daily Life, Environment and Working Style.Health
In the drive to become a total healthcare company, the Fujifilm 
Group has been promoting action on organizational reinforce -
ment in recent years, including developing high-performance medical equipment and M&A.
In the field of medical systems, we gained a solid market 
response especially for our medical IT systems and diagnostic ultrasound system, etc. In 2014, we also participated actively in symposia held in emerging nations, especially in Latin America, to contribute to the advancement of clinical examination tech -
nologies in such nations. Additionally, our own technology that realizes the early detection of influenza has been applied in the development of a diagnostic system realizing rapid diagnosis of the Ebola virus disease that spread not only in West Africa but also in various nations last year, chiefly among medical care work -
ers. We are directing great energy into its further development.
In regenerative medicine, Japan Tissue Engineering Co., 
Ltd. was made a consolidated subsidiary in 2014. Also, Cellular Dynamics International, Inc., the world leading company in iPS cell development and manufacturing became a wholly-owned subsidiary in May 2015. In the area of pharmaceuticals, we acquired the vaccine manufacturer, Kalon Biotherapeutics, LLC, in 2014 through its US subsidiary, expanding the scope of the contract manufacturing of biotech pharmaceutical products. In new drug development, we are working on the development of a strong pipeline through collaboration with the world’s top-class research organizations. In the document field, we support the work efficiency in medical services and contribute to speed up clinical trial for new drug development.
 
Future Prospects
In medical systems and document fields, Fujifilm Group will pro-vide assistance for more accurate and rapid diagnosis and boost efficiency in medical care through a wider expansion of its busi -
ness operations in the counties including emerging nations. In the life sciences field, we will expand the lineup of functional products that utilize our technologies to separate ourselves from compet -
ing companies. In pharmaceuticals and regenerative medicine, products will be developed with increasing speed through organ -
izational strengthening, including M&A, to promote further growth in various business fields.Digital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systems Document
solutionsHighly
functional
materials社会課題
高齢化、 医療費増大
アンメッ トメディカルニーズ
etc.
HealthcareSocial 
IssuesRelated 
Business 
FieldsAging society,
increased medical costs,
regional divide in medical care,
response to healthy life expectancy,
unmet medical needs, etc.
2012 20 years latermillion
peoplemillionpeople
1422[Estimated cancer onset across 
the world]
Source: World Cancer Report 2014, World Health Organization (WHO)
Despite continuously advancing medical 
care, many illnesses still have no definitive treatment. For example, the cancer death rate is increasing across the world and the number of patients is growing ever larger, particularly in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. There is a desperate need for early diagnosis and treatment of diseases in emerging countries, in addition to finding effective treatments.Priority issue 1  Improve accessibility to medical services
Targets: (1)   Improve the medical environment in emerging countries
 (2)   Increase medical check opportunities in disaster or emergency 
situations and improve diagnostic accuracy
 (3)   Increase the medical check opportunities and improve diagnostic 
accuracy by reducing the burdens on doctors
Priority issue 2  Contribute to identifying diseases at an early stage
Target:   Disseminate medical diagnosis systems with improved accuracy and less 
physical burden on patients
Priority issue 3  Response unmet medical needs
Target: Develop medicines for diseases without effective treatments
Priority issue 4  Promotion of health and contribution to beauty
Health is the most personal and important topic for people, yet there is a range of associated 
problems, such as disparities in medical access, shortage of doctors, increasing burden on 
medical workers, and surging medical costs. The Fujifilm Group started producing X-ray film in 1936, soon after the company’s establishment. Since then we have been a long-term contributor in the field of medical diagnosis. Our medical business has recently expanded into the Prevention and Treatment fields, as a part of a strategic move to -
wards the group’s growth. We are continuously striving to widen our contribution to promoting people’s health and welfare. In this new CSR Plan, we set out four priority issues based on the scale of our contribution to help solving the social challenges, identified through reviewing all the products, services, and technologies that we possess.●Medical systems  
(X-ray diagnostic imaging 
systems, endoscopes, etc.)
●Pharmaceuticals  
(low-molecular pharmaceuti-cals and biopharmaceuticals)
●Regenerative medicine  
(autologous cultured epidermis/cartilage)
Basic Approach
Outline of Activities in FY2014●Life sciences  
(functional cosmetics and supplement products)
●Global services  
(solution proposals 
through company document and business process improvement)
17 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 16 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fujifilm (FUJINON at the time) became the first in the world to de-
velop a digital endoscope in 1984 and has since been develop-ing epoch-making endoscopes, including less painful transnasal endoscopes, double balloon endoscopes to allow the examina-tion and treatment of the entire small intestine, for which it is very difficult to insert an endoscope.
Fujifilm’s endoscope systems are divided into two types: one 
using xenon lamps and the other using laser light (LASEREO). In 2012, we released LASEREO as the world’s first endoscope using laser as a light source. The product’s biggest feature is the laser illumination technology that combines two kinds of laser light of different wavelengths: white light suitable for normal ob-servation and laser light for short-wavelength narrowband light* observation. This technology is coupled with our proprietary im-aging technology to increase the visibility of the lesion. In 2014, we added a transnasal type to the peroral type, and included the Linked Color Imaging (LCI) function to emphasize minor color variations in the mucous membranes in the standard functions to support the diagnosis of inflammatory disorders.
Fujifilm will continue to meet the needs of doctors and pa-
tients, advancing the development of endoscopy to contribute to the early detection and treatment of a range of diseases.Develop endoscopes using proprietary technologies 
to contribute to the early detection and treatment of diseases while minimizing the invasion on patientsPriority  
Issue
2
* Narrowband light (light in a narrow wave-
length band) is used for image observation in LASEREO and emphasizes the contrast of microvessels on the mucosal surface.
Regenerative medicine 
represents a new medic-al technology to recover the functions of damaged organs by transplanting cells and tissues. It is ex-pected to expand med-ical possibilities to meet medical needs that have not been met due to the lack of effective treatment methods and also to give an alternative to the transplantation of organs. 
In 2014, two laws (Act on the Safety of Regenerative Medicine and Revised Pharmaceutical Affairs Act) were put into force as part of the measures implemented by the Japanese government to support the industry, and the clinical application of iPS cells was started, making the year an important one for the progress of regenerative medicine in Japan. The world is now paying attention to the country, which is moving toward implementation of regenerative medicine.
The Fujifilm Group is a top runner in the field of regenerative 
medicine. Japan Tissue Engineering (J-TEC), one of its consoli-dated subsidiaries, is the only company to market regenerative medicine products such as autologous cultured epidermis and autologous cultured cartilage in Japan. The Group also launched the extracellular matrix Cellnest as a reagent for research use, based on the collagen technology accumulated in the photo business, and applied the results to develop the CellSaic tech-nology as a new transplantation form to increase the effect of transplantation in regenerative medicine. We have thus made contributions to the development of regenerative medicine. In March 2015, we signed an agreement to acquire US Cellular Dynamics International, Inc., a world leading developer and manufacturer of iPS cells. In the future we will expand our busi-ness domain to include regenerative medicine using iPS cells, thereby accelerating measures to meet unmet medical needs.
Accelerate the development of regenerative 
medicine, backed by enforcement of the Act on the Safety of Regenerative MedicinePriority  
Issue
3Following the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease (EVD) mainly in 
Western Africa in 2014, the first case of the disease outside Africa was confirmed in Europe and preventing the spread of EVD is becoming a critical issue for the international community. In order to prevent a wide-scale outbreak of EVD in the future, it is critical to identify EVD patients at an early stage and implement initial re -
sponse measures to break the chain of infection, while advancing the commercialization of anti-EVD vaccines and drugs. 
Fujifilm applied its silver amplification technology, tradition-
ally used in the development process for photographs, to the development of a diagnostic system that can detect even a very small amount of influenza virus in the initial stage of develop-ment, and announced the system in 2011. The system can easily be used to get a diagnosis in a mere three and a half to 15 minutes and the error-free automatic detection by the ma-chine has been highly evaluated. It is therefore increasingly being adopted by medical facilities. The technology can be applied to diseases other than influenza and the company aims to apply it more widely to contribute to the early detection of various infec-tious diseases existing across the world.
To this end, Fujifilm concluded a joint study contract for a 
rapid diagnostic system for EVD with BIOASTER*, which is an ad-vanced French public research institute specializing in infectious diseases and microbiology. The joint study is being conducted by the two parties as an international industry-and-government cooperation project. The current EVD examination method has been implementable only at limited places and by limited ex-perts, and also takes several hours for completion. To increase the safety and speed of the examination by making it possible to do it at the place where an infection is reported, the company is working to create a simple, quick, small-sized, and port-able diagnostic system. 
Also, it has been 
announced in an interim analysis report by the French Institute of Health and Medical Research (Inserm) based on the results of clinical trials conducted in Guinea that the anti-influenza virus drug Avigan, developed by TOYAMA CHEMICAL, a group com -
pany, shows potential in treating Ebola patients. Fujifilm will fully cooperate with the French and Guinean governments and the re -
lated Japanese authorities to establish an EVD treatment method.
Fujifilm will continue to cooperate with a range of related or -
ganizations that share the goal of solving the world’s public health problems, making full use of the diagnostic and treatment know-how accumulated in the Fujifilm Group’s health care business.
* BIOASTER is a public institute that conducts research into infectious diseas-
es and microbiology, funded by Lyon Biopole (industrial cluster in the field of infectious diseases located in Lyon, France), the Pasteur Institute known as a world-class research institute, Inserm, and other French research institutes.Priority  
Issue
2Priority  
Issue
3Helping to solve the world’s public health 
problems—Research to develop a rapid diagnostic system for the Ebola virus disease
Through catalytic 
accumulation of silver around gold particles of only 50 nm, the conventional virus marker, Fujifilm managed to increase the marker size 100 times within one minute, enabling easier virus detection
Conventional methodSilver
Amplification method推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services.Promotion policy 1
Extracellular matrix used for cell culture in a reagent: “Cellnest recombinant peptide based on human collagen type I” (released in Dec 2014)The double balloon endoscope for small intestine was developed as a world first in 2003. The EN-580XP , which was released in February 2015, provides a higher performance. For example, the diameter of the tip is 1 mm smaller than the conventional model to reduce the physical burden on patients.A slight difference in the mucosal color are emphasized on the display.
LCI 
emphasizes differences in the chroma and hue degree of the mucosal surface.
Image provided by Kawasaki Medical SchoolColors important 
for the diagnosis of inflammation are concentrated in the red color area and are difficult to differentiate.
The creation of new drugs in fields that lack effective treatment 
is an important social challenge. Fuji Xerox helps boost the ef-ficiency of clinical trial*
1 operations by utilizing its accumulated 
know-how on document solutions for the management of both paper and digital documents. As a result, Center for Clinical Trials, Japan Medical Association*
2 adopted the Company’s clin-
ical trial document management solution in the system that they launched full scale in September 2014.
▼Overview of the Clinical Trial Document Support System 
and Range of Applications of the Fuji Xerox SolutionSupporting the networking and digitization of clinical trial operations for speedier development of new drugs Priority  
Issue
1
Medical facilities conducting clinical trials are shifting their over -
all operations from the conventional paper-based methods to 
paperless in order to promote higher efficiency. However, there have been challenges to face in this shift, including the high cost of the new system introduction, changes that have to be made to the operational processes, and compliance with the regulations on the management of electronic media, which required stan-dardization of formats and management rules between related organizations. The Center for Clinical Trials has worked to meet these challenges in cooperation with industry groups and others based on the use of the cloud-based Clinical Trial Document Support System. Fuji Xerox’s document management solution is used in this system to manage original documents in electronic form (electronic record storage function). The solution enables organizations using Clinical Trial Document Support System 5.0 to manage original documents electronically rather than in paper form, leading to the reduction in the cost of storing clinical trial paper documents and in turn to higher operational efficiency.
Fuji Xerox will continue to offer a range of healthcare solu-
tions to contribute to the early development of drugs and to higher-quality medical services.
*1 Research study of drugs or medical equipment before they can be com-
mercialized.
*2 Promotes the development of a platform for clinical trials in Japan as part of the Large Scale Clinical Trial Network Project, a clinical trial promotion program subsidized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan.
Clinical trial 
sponsors
Medical 
institutions for 
clinical trials
Common functionsSingle sign-on
Access controlManage original electronic 
materials
Master controlAttach e-signatures
User managementManage documents
Prepare for auditsInput support using standard 
forms
- Input support
- Management standard forms- Import/export - Management of documents 
attached to standard formsIRB information management
- Manage IRB meetings information
- Publicize/Manage IRB meeting 
agenda
- Create/manage IRB meeting 
minutes
- Manage IRB materials
Portal
- Portal management 
- File sharing between clinical trial 
members
- File sharing within an 
organizationClinical trial information 
management
- Accept user applications 
- Manage clinical trial information- Manage organizations- Manage persons in charge
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 19 18Injectable antibiotic products have been supplied mostly in 
glass bottles called vials and the “preparation,” or dissolving the drug in saline solution for infusion, is troublesome. Accordingly, among busy medical facilities where many patients are taken care of on a daily basis, it has been strongly desired to improve the operational efficiency.
It is the “double-bag kit” that meets such needs. The drug 
and saline solution are sealed separately in bags, with each bag divided by a barrier, and when administered, the solution cham-ber is pressed to break the barrier and dissolve the drug to the solution. Compared with vials, the bags are more easily prepared (the drug dissolves in the solution quickly) and prevent contam-ination of bacteria or foreign materials since the preparation is completed within sealed bags. Conventional bag kits have alum-inum film on a drug chamber to protect the drug from oxidation and moisture absorption, and the film has to be removed before administration. For non-film type, drying agents are packed in the drug chamber.TOYAMA CHEMICAL and Fujifilm cooperate 
in developing a double-bag kit to improve operational efficiency in medical facilities
Preparation of the 
double-bag kitPriority  
Issue
1
In February 2015, TOYAMA CHEMICAL began to manufacture 
the double-bag kit. The product is innovative in that it has both high resistance against oxidation and moisture without alum-inum film or drying agents thanks to “transparent super high barrier film” developed by Fujifilm and convenient high visibility of the contents. We will continue developing products like this to contribute to reduce the burden on medical facilities and im-prove their service quality.
推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services.Promotion policy 1
Saline 
solutionDrug
2.   The barrier 
breaks
1. Press
In an aging society where the average lifespan is extending, people are getting more interested in methods to prolong their healthy life expectancy.* One of these methods that uses antioxi-dants to curb aging is attracting much attention.
Salmon and crabs look red because of the natural red 
pigment called “astaxanthin,” which belongs to the group of carotenoids that includes beta-carotene and is about 1,000 times more powerful than coenzyme Q10 and about 550 times more powerful than vitamin E. It is widely known to be a highly effective antioxidant, but it is difficult to use because it is not water-soluble, and not absorbable or resistant to heat and light.
FUJIFILM Corporation noticed astaxanthin as a result of 
conducting research into antioxidants for photo film over 80 Support health through astaxanthin and 
salacia: antioxidants developed in photo film research
Mitigates stress and prevent diseasePrevents brain aging and brain disease
Prevents spots 
and wrinklesProtects muscle cells and fosters earlier recovery from fatigue
SkinBrain
Eye
Muscles
Liver
CellEffects of astaxanthin
Mitigates eye strain and protects the eyes from ultraviolet rays
Supports 
liver functions
Prevents the oxidation of cells, cancers and diabetesEffects of salacia
Treats
rough
skinIncreases
immunityPrevents
anemiaTreats
constipation Prevention and
improvement of 
lifestyle-related
diseasesSalacia
Sugar blocker
Diet Intestinal regulationPriority  
Issue
4
years, and developed nano-astaxan-
thin, which is a better antioxidant and more permeating and absorbing, by using its unique nano-technology to meet the challenge. 
To prolong healthy life expect-
ancy, it is critical to implement pre-ventive measures against diabetes, hypertension and other lifestyle-related diseases, which is also effective in pre-venting obesity. “Salacia” is a natural in-gredient that serves as a rather effective sugar blocker, and Fujifilm focused on this substance. Salacia has long been used in India and Sri Lanka as a miracle 
plant to treat diabetes and had been found to have various other effects as well, but it was difficult to manufacture pills containing the effective ingredient in high concentration. Fujifilm applied the technologies it has accumulated in photographic research to make pills containing the ingredient in high concentrations and also at high quality.
Fujifilm will continue to contribute to the health of people 
by developing supplements and skincare products based on its proprietary technologies developed in the field of photography.
* The World Health Organization (WHO) proposed the concept of healthy life 
expectancy in 2000. In Japan, the difference between the average lifespan and the healthy life expectancy is 9.13 years for men and 12.68 years for women.Daily Life
社会課題
高齢化、 医療費増大
アンメッ トメディカルニーズ
etc.
Digital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systems Document
solutionsHighly
functional
materialsHealthcareSocial 
IssuesRelated 
Business 
Fields Safety & security,
relationships, life ful/f_illment,
preservation of arts and 
culture, etc.
[The ratio of depression patients 
in global population]
Source: World Health Organization (WHO), 2012
In our modern “stressed society,” people 
from children to senior citizens suffer from numerous stresses. Stress is believed to have a huge influence on depression and other modern ailments and in the increase in the number of suicides. In order to build a healthy and sound society, in addition to providing safety and security for everyday living, we need to reaffirm the importance of communication between people and within regions to provide psychological support.
Photography, the original business of the Fujifilm Group, has the power to preserve mem-
ories of events and help us to lead fulfilling lives. This belief was reinforced by the “Photo 
Rescue Project” organized during the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake. With our Tono Mirai Zukuri College, conceived as part of the recovery assistance activities, we are exploring directions we can take in the future to revitalize local communities. Photos and documents can revitalize communication and preserve our cultural her -
itage for future generations, and our hope is that we can develop new products and services and promote their wider use in society. The safe storage of digital data is important in allowing members of society to preserve their ties with other people, thus enriching life in a society that is safe and with fewer accidents and less crime.The number of patients
with depression worldwideApprox.
%5
million320
In the imaging field, the quality of the premium digital cam-
era, “X Series, ” and the replacement lenses earned acclaim 
and are steadily growing in sales. In the World Cup Football Tournament held in Brazil in 2014, Fujifilm Group was recog-nized not only for the outstanding quality of its products but also for global coordination within the group and succeeded in having FUJINON lenses chosen as the official TV lens prod-
ucts. Its recording media also draws attention with long-term storage of large amount of data. Its instant photo system is generating sales around the world chiefly among young peo-ple who are now very familiar with photography using digital cameras and smartphones. Also, we have proposed a wide range of value-added printing, such as the Year Album and 
Shuffle Print, to add color to the lives of people, and which have won a positive response. In 2014, Fujifilm’s one-time-use recyclable camera, “Fuji Color QuickSnap,” was selected as one of the “Essential Historical Materials for Science and Technology*” (nickname: Future Technology Heritage) by the National Museum of Nature and Science of Japan. 
 Future Prospects
“QuickSnap” was truly Fujifilm’s pride and foremost example of “Value from Innovation” 29 years ago. Fujifilm will continue to expand the scope of attractiveness in photography and printing in the age of digital photography and smartphones, encouraged by the recognition of the company’s activities and technologies. On the other hand, the new demand is expanding such as system to storage large amounts of data for long period and multilingual services corresponding to increasing the number of foreigners coming to Japan. The Fujifilm Group will provide the innovative products and solu-tions responding to diversified value and lifestyle.
* Essential Historical Materials for Science and Technology: Materials that are 
classified as “representing important historical materials that show the de-velopment of Japan’s science and technology and holding important sig-nificance to be handed down to the next generation,” as well as “having a remarkable impact on people’s lives, the economy, society, and culture.” Fujifilm has now had three of its products—its videotape and digital camer -
as—registered in 2010 and 2013.Priority issue 1  Contribute to creating a safe and secure society
Target:   Disseminate products that contribute to long-term storage of important 
information, crime prevention, and improve information security and 
social infrastructure safety
Priority issue 2  Contribute to enriching humanity and relationships
Targets: (1)   Contribute to handing down important cultures and artworks 
 (2)   Develop solutions to invigorate the community engagement (3)   Disseminate photographic products that store memories in tangible 
forms and enrich people’s lives
●Global services 
(solution proposals 
through company doc-ument and business process improvement)●Photo imaging 
(photo books and film processing/printing services)
●Optical devices
(TV camera lenses/cine lenses and lenses for security cameras)
●Recording media
Basic Approach
Outline of Activities in FY2014
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 21 20As part of the continued efforts since its foundation to spread 
and develop the culture of photography, FUJIFILM Corporation is fostering a “Photo Renaissance” activity. We have been cre-ating and communicating fundamental values of Photography; shooting, preserving, displaying and gifting since 2013, based on the concept of enriching people’s life with photography.
In February 2014, we opened WONDER PHOTO SHOP in 
Harajuku, Tokyo as our first direct marketer based on the con-cept of a new photography shop in the age of smartphones. The spread of smartphones enables more people to take photos whenever they want. Photos are now used as a tool of com-munication and are also being increasingly used by the young as gifts. The experimental WONDER PHOTO SHOP provides cus-tomers with new value-added print services to meet the needs of the smartphone age. These include the “Shuffle Print” service to create a commemorative print composed of multiple photos, the creation of can badges and iPhone cases. 
Couples and friends between their teens to 30s account for 
a large percent of the visitors, and sixty five percent of print or -
ders are from stored images on their smartphones. At WONDER PHOTO SHOP , photos are increasingly printed for use as gifts. This new demand for photos is attracting much attention, not only the photo industry but the others, such as gifting goods retailers, make study visits from both inside and outside Japan.
We will spread these new ideas and possibilities for enjoy-
ing photography to photo shops and also to the other retailers globally.Develop photo-based communication by 
offering proposals to enjoy photography in this age of smartphones
Organization of a workshop for photographers to communicate the joys of photography 
to participants (The photos show workshops held in Turkey and Thailand)WONDER PHOTO SHOP provides new experimental print services, such as the live performance of making photo goods shown at upper right, and holds a range of events. At the world’s largest photo exhibition, photokina 2014, held in Germany in September 2014, a temporary WONDER PHOTO SHOP was exhibited inside the booth to publicize it to the world.Priority  
Issue
2
In its priority themes, Fuji Xerox includes solution to problems 
faced by local communities it comes into contact with through its business operations, and opened Tono Mirai Zukuri College in Tono City, Iwate Prefecture in April 2014 as a result of three years of activities. The city served as a logistical support base for the areas afflicted by the Great East Japan Earthquake.
The College was launched under a project that uses Fuji 
Xerox’s communication technology to identify problems with and reach consensus over the development of Tono City, and based on the results of repeated dialogue between the city, its citizens and NPOs. Fuji Xerox is constructing and managing the College’s programs in cooperation with Tono City with the aim of encouraging exchange between people in developing the city. The College is located in buildings that used to house Tsuchibuchi Junior High School and is attracting attention as an example of the effective use of a former school building.
In fiscal 2014, which was the first year for the College, activ-
ities were focused at the following aims:• I nvite more people to the CollegePromote exchange between people: Invite more people to the college mainly from the Tokyo metropolitan area.Participation by local citizens: Inform local residents of the College programs and stimulate their interest in them.• I mplement programsIncrease the number of participants by implementing programs that invite people from outside to take on challenges together with local residents.• Estimate the available management resources
Examine the system and budget needed to run the College throughout the year and use the results as an indicator of activ-ities for the next fiscal year.Programs are im-plemented by about 70 organizations, and include first-rate programs provid-ed jointly with local municipalities and research institutes. The number of par -
ticipants exceeded the initial target of 2,000 to reach 3,569 (including 1,823 who stayed overnight). Implementing the programs has brought results. For example in one of the programs, local junior high school students broadened their outlook by studying with com-pany employees and students from both Japanese and overseas universities. Some participants also stayed with local residents as part of the programs. This was well evaluated by participants. The programs have thus had good results and the number of local participants, which was initially small, increased toward the end of the term, together with an increase in local recognition for the programs.
In fiscal 2015, the number of people involved in the College 
will be increased to enhance the management foundation, and studies on how to build a business model based on specific ex-amples will be carried out. To this end, Fuji Xerox aims to imple-ment 11 programs in the three areas of exchange, lifestyle/cul-ture, and industrial creation. The company will encourage more people to participate in the programs to achieve good results.
Through the College project, Fuji Xerox has gained the 
know-how to identify and solve problems by using communi-cation technologies, and it will be able to use this in other areas.
Tono Mirai Zukuri College, established to create 
value through government-industry-academia cooperation jointly with local communities
Company Government
Local
communityFulﬁlling
life
New
ideaIndependent
leader
Passing on
the cultureAttractive
product
Identifying
problems
based on
facts
University
(Upper)   University of Tokyo Innovation 
Summer Program
(Middle) Joint future creation program
(Bottom)   Human resource development 
for next generationFiscal target Verification for full-scale operationEnhancement of the management 
foundationCreation of a specific business 
model
Management 
target●   Public recognition of the Mirai Zukuri 
facilities through the College  programs
●   Trial implementation of programs to  
solve the problems identified 
●   Enhancement of the management  
resources●   Further promotion of the College use 
(inviting more companies to make exchanges through the College)
●   Visualize the effects of the College by 
actually solving problems
●   Make proactive comments based on 
a media strategy●   Offset expenses against revenues 
(excluding personnel expenses)
●   Incorporate the College management 
organization and conclude a man-agement agreement
●   Press releaseFY2014 FY2015 FY2016▼Value to Local Community
Priority  
Issue
2
▼College Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2014
Major programInspections/
meetingsSurveys & researchCooperation & 
exchangeProject 
implementation
TotalUse of the facilities for inspections/meetings Conduct surveys on specific themes based on an understanding of the present situation in Tono and the disaster-afflicted areasIdentify problems through exchange between local residents and outsidersImplement specific projects to solve the problems
Exchange between people and differ-ent industries・ Various events
・ Joint future creation program34 2 4 40
Company training ・ Training in how to identify problems 1 3 4
Municipal cooperation・ Research program on emergency logistical 
support bases
・ Tono forum7 1 1 9
Research & educa-tional facilities・ University of Tokyo Innovation Summer Program
・ Hosei University’s regional cooperation program1 7 3 11
Green tourism・ Study tour of the afflicted areas
・ Future of satoyama where people live with 
horses2 2 4
Co-hosted with an external organization・ Marunouchi Asadaigaku (project implemented by the agricultural training center)1 1 2
Total 42 7 18 3 70推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services.Promotion policy 1
The spread of digital devices has made companies and research 
institutes recognize the importance of creating new value for business/research by analyzing a large amount of data and ar -
chiving materials and images that have scientific and historical value. Accordingly, the need to store highly value-added data in a safe, efficient and cost-saving manner is increasing.Store a range of the world’s valued data for the 
future—Technology to archive a large amount of data safely and efficiently for many years
Management media
Operational costManagement system Security
ProblemSystem (hardware and others) discontinuationProblem
Problem ProblemMedia failure
Disasters including 
earthquakesIncrease in data volumeData retrievable in the 
required media formatHighly reliable storage on magnetic tape
Storing both the entrusted 
originals and duplicatesReasonable pricing with no upper limit of data volumePriority  
Issue
2Priority  
Issue
1
Fujifilm launched a data archive service named “d:ternity” in April 
2014, in which we record and save valuable data entrusted to us by customers on magnetic tape for long periods. Magnetic tape can be stored for a long time without the need to energize the medium with an electric current during the period, and this helps minimize the electricity cost and reduce CO
2 emissions.
To meet social needs for the long-term storage of a large 
amount of data, Fujifilm is working on developing technology to further increase the recording capacity of magnetic tape with its unique technology using BaFe magnetic particle. In recognition of this, IMAGICA Corp. launched an archive storage service for images with Fujifilm, and also Kadokawa Corporation concluded an agreement with Fujifilm to archive digitally restored data for the movie “Rashomon,” directed by Akira Kurosawa.
We obtained ISO/IEC 27001: 2013 (the international stan-
dard on information security management systems) certification for d:ternity, and this demonstrates that the service provides high security. Fujifilm will continue to provide reliable services and solutions to meet the needs for archive storage of data that is valuable for customers and society.▼Problems of Data Storage for Long Periods and 
Relevant d:ternity Services
22 23 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fuji Xerox is developing and providing products and services 
that help minimize the greenhouse effect, upholding its target of reducing CO
2 emitted by customers by 7 million tons yearly 
by 2020.
Fuji Xerox has been leading the print industry with its on-
demand publishing systems which allow users to make prints in the necessary quantities whenever they want, thereby reducing the print inventory and wasted sheets. The new compact belt roll fuser, which was developed for the color on-demand publishing system Versant
TM 2100 Press (released in May 2014), enables the The on-demand publishing system VersantTM 
2100 Press provides dramatically improved 
environmental performancePriority  
Issue
1
compact product to achieve print productivity of 100 pages-per-
minute while downsizing by about 50% in terms of both body size and weight compared to the Company’s existing product. This leads to a reduction of 3,738 kg-CO
2 emissions* per unit. It 
will continue to promote on-demand publishing systems which contribute to reducing environmental impact as well as meeting the needs of small-lot printing of various materials in Japan and the Asia-Pacific markets.
The product received the “Minister’s Prize, the Ministry of 
Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan” of the Eco-Products category at the 11th Eco-Products Awards, organized by the Eco-Products Awards Steering Committee. This award is the top honor of the Eco-Products category. The product also won the Good Design Awards 2014 held by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion.
* CO 2 emissions during the manufacturing and transporting of parts while de-
veloping a product. Uses Fuji Xerox’s own primary unit to calculate the CO 2 
emissions from the weight of a product.The printing industry consumes water, energy, chemical agents and solvents in large amounts and is required to implement measures to protect the environment. The industry, however, includes a lot of smaller businesses, who cannot invest in en-vironmental protection immediately. “Green printing with high productivity” is therefore a global challenge.
Against this backdrop, FUJIFILM Corporation unveiled 
FUJIFILM SUPERIA, a resource saving solution for offset print-ing, and began promoting sales of this product across the globe. The solution provides five types of resource savings: savings on materials (paper, chemical agents, etc.), savings on man-hours (reducing the processes and time to delivery), savings on energy (reducing the use of electricity and gas), savings on emissions (waste chemical agents and VOCs), and savings on water (re-ducing water use), thereby providing good and stable environ-mental performance while helping increase profitability steadily. We will promote the sales of this product together with sales 
Officially unveiled SUPERIA 
at PRINT CHINA 2015 held in China in April 2015
Promoting sales in South Africa since 2014 (Photo shows an event held to introduce the product)Helping the global printing industry reduce 
its environmental impact through a solution that embraces five types of resource saving
Area-supervising sales bases Sales networkGermanyU.K.
MoroccoTurkey
IndiaThailandChina
Malaysia BrazilCanada
U.S.A.
AustraliaJapan
Philippines
Vietnam
South AfricaUAEFranceItalyRussia▼Globally Expanding FFGS Sales BasesPriority  
Issue
1Priority  
Issue
2
of the Fujifilm Global 
Graphic System (FFGS), not only in Western countries that are mak-ing progress with en-vironmental protection, but also in Asia and other emerging economies where people are raising their environmental awareness. 
SUPERIA comprises multiple solutions, and the process-
less CTP system eliminates the need for alkali development, gum washing or any other form of processing. It has been high-ly evaluated as an extremely resource-saving solution for offset CTP and has been introduced in about 3,000 companies (450 in Japan) to date. In May 2015 we released a more advanced next-generation processless CTP plate to the Japanese market, and by request, released one for use by newspaper companies in July–-Japan’s first. We are thus meeting a range of resource saving needs.Environment
According to the latest report from the United Nation Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC), it is likely that temperatures will increase by approximately 4°C by 2100 
without additional mitigation and CO 2 emissions continue to rise. Global warming is becoming ever more serious 
and remains as one of the most important issues to address across the world. The water risk is another serious issue in focus. The Fujifilm Group aims to help resolve these environmental challenges through changing our working styles and products towards low environmental impact, including highly functional materials and magnet-ic tape utilizing applied photographic film development and production technologies.
As the leading company in high-performance films, the 
Fujifilm Group is now applying the technologies cultivated in photo film to development and sales in various fields in order to reduce environmental impact.
In its action against global warming, we contributed 
to the reduction of CO
2 emissions by 10.75 million tons in 
FY2014 (compared to 2005) with the target of a CO 2 reduc-
tion of 20 million tons by FY2020 compared to 2005. Those products with a particularly high contribution effect are data storage media LTO tapes employing the new generation of Barium-Ferrite (BaFe) magnetic particles that has been 
used widely by our cus-tomers since it’s introduc-tion in 2012, as well as the IT solution for medical clinics, SYNAPSE. The photovoltaic backsheet launched in 2012 was rec-ognized for cutting down environmental impact and improving the product life of photovoltaic modules, receiving the Japan Association for Chemical Innovation’s FY2014 Green & Sustainable Chemistry Award of the Minister of the Environment. Also, we highly contributed to lower environmental impact such as CO
2 reduction with expanding sales of mobile and 
cloud solutions in document field.
 Future Prospects
The ion exchange membrane and gas separation mem-brane are now in the final phase to adopt in commercial products after having many field tests in various regions. In particular, the ion exchange membrane won recognition in Europe and other markets as a product that addresses the problem of water shortage, which has grown into a glob-al concern. Drawing on the Group’s solid infrastructural technologies and core technologies, we plan to contribute to resolving such increasingly grave environmental issues, through the launch of innovative new products that meet market needs on a timely basis while at the same time en-gaging in the “co-creation” of value with our customers.
▼Amount of CO 2 Reductions for 
Customers FY2014 ResultsPriority issue 1  Global warming countermeasures
Target: Reduce CO 2 emissions by 20 million tons by FY2020 (compared to 2005)
Priority issue 2  Response to water problems
Target: Reduction and restriction of water pollution
Priority issue 3  Response to energy issues
Target: Contribute to generating energy with low environmental impact社会課題
高齢化、 医療費増大
アンメッ トメディカルニーズ
etc.
Digital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systems Document
solutionsHighly
functional
materialsHealthcareSocial 
IssuesRelated 
Business 
Fields Global warming,
exhaustion of resources,
energy issues, etc.
[Share of low-carbon energy in 
electricity supply]
Source: Working Group III Fifth Assessment Report, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
Global warming raises atmospheric and 
water temperatures change, negative impact on water resources and ecosystems, and se-rious damages to human society. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions, one cause of global warming, is now a common challenge across the world. Energy-saving, power generation from non-carbon sources, and promotion of low-carbon energy are said that the key solutions.
Present 2050% % 30 80
●Office products and 
office printers
●Global services 
(solution proposals through company document and business process improvement)● Industrial materials and electronic materials, etc
(development of new materials, etc)
●Materials and equip-ment for graphic arts 
(CTP plates)
Basic Approach
Outline of Activities in FY2014推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services.Promotion policy 1
05001,0001,5002,00010 kiloton-CO 2
2014 2020 (FY)Target 20 million
54%
Fuji Xerox 
Fujiﬁlm
Water 
saving
Reduced emissionsEnergy savingMan-hour savingMaterials saving
Improved 
productivity
Eco- 
friendliness
Compact and lightweight 
on-demand publishing system with high productivity at low cost
24 25 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fuji Xerox has distributed tablets to engineers in charge of maintenance 
services across Japan since April 2013, and started up “COMPASS,” a system enabling safe access anywhere (ie. from customer site) and use of necessary information even away from the office.
All customer information necessary during a service visit (includ -
ing information from the sales department and call centers), which is automatically gathered and distributed by the database can be accessed and viewed on COMPASS. At the same time, digitalizing service reports intended for the client and data entry to the database system can be completed at once at customer site, elimin -
ating the need to return to office to do such work. This has reduced maintenance work, by approximately 5 minutes per service vis -
it, and generated a surplus of 100 hours per Engineer each year, dramatically improving service productivity. At the same time, appli -
cations have been developed for Engineers to study and brush up their skills and also for easy diagnosis of client problems. The extra time is now used for communications with clients, allowing Engineers to enhance Maintenance service process reform 
leads to greater productivity and an upgrade in work skillsPriority  
Issue
1Priority  
Issue
2
their skills as “Customer Solution Engineers,” creating opportunities 
for following sales projects. The company has already customized COMPASS for the introduction into service divisions of companies in other industries. The new workstyle realizing both convenience and outstanding security was covered in the media as examples of “Unity of Words and Deeds”(Genko-Icchi). We will continue to utilize COMPASS so as to be “engineers who can consult everything regard -
ing to the maintenance service.” 
▼Maintenance Service Process Reforms with COMPASS SystemThe results at T-CUBE have been employed in increasing assistance to customers in implementing such work-styles. We offer solutions adapted to existing issues and objectives, based on what the employ -
ees actually experience in the work environment, such as creation of an environment where employees “can work any time and anywhere” by utilizing thin clients and universal layout and stockless paper for document reduction based on specific office diagnoses.
Fuji Xerox wields strength from its extensive experience of ap -
proach to work-style reforms, both in success and failure over many years. Additionally, there is “document communication,” the com -
pany’s own solution for the effective management of documents 
through consolidation of paper and digital data in the transmission, sharing, and stor -
age of information, which is fundamental to efficient communications. These accom -
plishments have led to building customer trust, with seminars being held every month and individual counseling meetings being requested. Several tens of projects in this area are underway. The expertise that Fuji Xerox has accumulated is expected to bring about positive reforms in the work-styles for all of society.Fuji Xerox has engaged in research and practice focused on work-style reforms for more than 20 years and has been proposing “New Work-Styles” based on its experiences. With the advances in ICT in recent years, work that had been restricted to designated places, such as the business office, has become possible anywhere, and the work -
place has gained a broader and more flexible definition. Additionally, new working styles are gaining greater social attention because many companies are now aspiring to new working styles on their office transfers, as the clue to resolving management issues regarding im -
proved productivity, cost reduction, and a boost in sales capabilities.
A typical example of such new work-styles is the activity under -
way on the 6th floor of the Roppongi T-CUBE Building. Fuji Xerox consolidated its urban sales division at this location in 2004. With office renovation in 2011, reform was implemented for greater vital -
ity and communication and we succeeded in upgrading productivity. Work-style reforms implemented 
over the years to become solutions for all of society
The latest example of work-
style reforms is a practice at Nihonbashi office, which opened in May 2015
▼Implementations at Roppongi T-CUBE with Work-Style ReformsPriority  
Issue
1Priority  
Issue
2
推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services.Promotion policy 1
TravelMaintenance
records
Get
informationWork associated
maintenance services* Work at ofﬁce Work outside * Process streamlined by introducing COMPASS
Maintenance
and
sales recordsDiagnosis to
restorationRestoration
Diagnosis to
restorationRestoration
Solution proposal for
inconvenience of clientsPromoting communication solution Delete
recordsPrevious
work
process
Work
process
after
introducing
COMPASSAssign
engineer
Assign
engineerPreparation
for service
visitGet
informationTravelMaking
reports/
Reporting Making
visit
recordsTravelInput
information after
returning to
ofﬁceOfﬁce
workPreparation for servicevisit
Get informationMaking reports/
Making service
visit records TravelOfﬁce
workOfﬁce Concept “People gathering and moving around”
Anyone can work anywhere Safety & security Efﬁciency Ofﬁce servicesItems introducedImproved
pointsMobile working
Shared spot ofﬁce
Thin clientPhysical security
Information security
IT infrastructure solutionStockless paper 
Free address/non territory
Document communication● Open communication
● Room for collaboration 
with clients
● Touchdown seat 
arrangement, spot ofﬁce
● IP PBX 
● Wi-Fi networking
● Open working (home 
working), etc.● Vital record management
● IC cards
● Monitors
● Wi-Fi network encryption & 
authentication
● Other workers’ eyes 
(openness) etc.● Universal layout
● Free address
● Shared meeting rooms 
● Reduction of personal 
paper documents
● Concentration of multi 
functional printers etc.● Digitized contract 
documents (example of 
vital record management) 
● Easy multipoint TV 
conference
● Scanning services
● Plasma posters etc.Working
        Style
社会課題
高齢化、 医療費増大
アンメッ トメディカルニーズ
etc.
Digital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systems Document
solutionsHighly
functional
materialsHealthcareSocial 
IssuesRelated 
Business 
Fields Working disparity,
reduction in workforce,
diversity etc.
The recommendation on the Nairobi Forward-
Looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women adopted by the UN Economic and Social Council in 1990 was for “the ratio of women in leadership positions to increase to at least 30% by 1995.” In Japan in 2003, the Headquarters for the Promotion of Gender Equality announced that it hopes for “the ratio of women in leadership position to at least reach roughly 30% by 2020.” Although the 30% ratio is an international target, the figure has not been achieved in many areas in Japan. Diversity that allows a wide variety of people to work and for women to play an active role is an important issue that must be addressed urgently.
[The ratio of women in leader-
ship positions by 2020 ]
2003 decision by the Headquarters for  
the Promotion of Gender Equality
The Fujifilm Group has brought evolution to communications in society through a fusion of 
familiar paper data with digital data and on to a seamless integration with cloud services and 
mobile solutions. Access to and the sharing of information in various forms with ease and without any conscious awareness of the digital divide expands the possibilities for different services and working styles in every possible place—in offices and government organizations and in education and medical care. By giving value to communi -
cation with the focus on people, Fujifilm will continue to support a wide range of working styles for the new age.
Fuji Xerox is offering solution services aimed at creating an 
environment in which people are able to work in ways that suit their own individual circumstances, regardless of location or time.
In fiscal 2014, Next Generation Managed Print 
Services were introduced in Japan and part of the Asia-
Pacific region, designed to go beyond simple optimization of the customer's output environment and create business process automation and workstyle reform. Solutions for im-proving business efficiency and document management are being implemented for government and municipal offic-es, and local governments and in the medical care and phar -
maceutical product fields.
Furthermore, we have launched new solution services 
and multifunction printer/production printers that support mobile working. The cloud services Working Folder and Scan Translation Service have undergone reinforcement to boost coordination with Fuji Xerox’s various cloud servic-es and upgrade convenience. DocuWorks Mobile which realizes seamless integration of multifunction printers or Working Folder also boosts collaborative work and projects through the smooth distribution of documents and informa-tion utilities.
Future Prospects
Through presenting the experiences in resolving our own management issues, we will identify management issues for our customers, and develop new products and solu-tions services to create new workstyles that utilize ICT cloud technologies.
At the same time, we will work on making changes in 
our own workstyles and business operations through new forms of communication that make use of various devices and systems that will offer to customers solutions based on our own accomplishments.Policy target
%30Priority issue 1    Promote communications that transcend the information 
barrier
Target:   Promote solution services to enhance communications inside and outside 
the company and widely notify details of case studies
Priority issue 2  Promote diversity
Target:   Create and expand practical working environment solutions that enable 
people to work wherever and whenever to suit individual’s skills and 
lifestyle needs
●Office products and office printers
●Production services 
(digital printing systems)
●Global services 
(solution proposals through company docu-
ment and business process improvement)
Basic Approach
Outline of Activities in FY2014
26 27 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015page 30 page 34 page 36FUJIFILM
Sustainable Value Plan2016
Promotion 
policy2Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.
Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.
1. Promote global warming 
countermeasures2. Promote resource 
recycling3. Ensure product and 
chemical safety
29 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 28 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015The Fujifilm Group has been working on reducing the environmental impact of its 
business processes for many years. In Sustainable Value Plan 2016, “global warm-ing countermeasures,” “resource recycling” and “product and chemical safety”—the three themes that are particularly closely linked to the Group's business activi-ties and wield a major social impact—have been designated priority issues.Material
recyclingElectricity...1,210 million kWh
Oil*8..........................53.6 ML
Natural gas *9.......227 million m3
Water .......... 48.4 million tonsI
N
P
U
T
R
E
C
Y
C
L
EO
U
T
P
U
T
Resource extracting,
transporting, reﬁning,
synthesizing, processing,
and materials transportingProcurement
Electricity used,
Oil and gas used,
Water usedR&D/
Manufacturing
Heavy oil and
gasoline used,
Electricity usedTransportation
Electricity used,
Water usedUse
Waste combustion
recycling energyDisposal/
RecyclingAtmospheric
emissionsAtmospheric
emissions
* PET: Polyethylene terephthalate    
 TAC: TriacetylcelluloseDischarged
water
CO2*2.......1,231 kilotons
VOC ...........0.90 kilotons
SOx.................26.7 tonsNOx..................486 tonsSoot ................5.92 tonsWater *
6..........44.7 million tons
BOD *7..................... 48.3 tons
COD *7...................... 139 tons
Total nitrogen *7......... 223 tons
Total phosphorus *7.... 5.26 tons
Aluminum, 
aluminum alloy... 139 kilotons
Silver .............. 0.380 kilotonsPaper (used for 
products).......... 46.9 kilotons
PET*................. 30.3 kilotons
TAC*................ 42.1 kilotons
Others ............... 186 kilotonsCO
2*1.... 2,147 kilotonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2*3.... 441 kilotonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2*4.... 749 kilotonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2*5.... 188 kilotons
84.3 million tonsWaste
material
70.0
kilotons
Amount of
cyclic water
used *10Direct control over
the Fujifilm Group’s
environmental burdens
Material
recycling
Aluminum, PET,
Silver, TACElectricityThe Fujifilm Group is working towards recognizing the social 
and environmental impact through the material flow system summarized resource inputs and emission from our corpo-rate activities in all business process—from material pro-curement, manufacturing, transportation, to usage and final disposal. Understanding the entire picture of such impact caused by our activities throughout the value chain is helping us to accelerate our efforts towards realizing a sustainable society.
 Fujifilm Group Green Policy (Environmental Policy)   http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/greenpolicy/
 *1 Environmental burdens due to raw materials procurement (CO 2 
emitted during the process of extracting, transporting, refining, 
synthesizing, processing, and transporting raw materials) is calcu -
lated for the main raw materials procured.
 *2 Environmental burdens due to product manufacture is calculated based on the total amount of energy (electricity, petroleum, and gas) consumed in the production process.
 *3 For the calculation of environmental burdens due to product transportation, estimates are made based on domestic and over -
seas transportation methods and distances traveled. The typical amount of CO
2 emissions per unit of weight and distance for each 
method and correction factors such as the yield rate are multiplied by the weight of the raw materials procured.
 *4 For copy machines, printers, and fax machines, environmental burdens due to use of products is calculated as energy consump -
tion for a 5-year period for the machines installed this year. For other products, the estimated number of machines in operation is multiplied by typical energy consumption. *5 Environmental burdens due to product disposal is calculated based on the estimation of stress on the environment caused by the disposal of the raw materials procured.
 *6 Wastewater released as a result of business activities
 *7 Volume released to public water
 *8 Total of heavy oil A, heavy oil C, kerosene, light diesel oil, and gasoline (Amounts of the petroleum-based products are summed after appropriated energy conversions, and the total is expressed in terms of the amount of heavy oil A.)
 *9 Total of natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), urban gas, bu -
tane, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (Amounts of the gases are summed after appropriate energy conversions, and the total is expressed in terms of the amount of urban gas.)
*10 This includes the amount of water used in a cyclic manner.
(For the above, data from the input-output table and other sources are used to obtain CO
2 emissions per unit of output.)
28 29 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Sites using the Fujifilm Group’s wheeling of 
electric power with in-house co-generation system (As of March 2015): Fujiﬁlm Fujinomiya 
Factory (power 
generation site)
: Fujiﬁlm sites
: Sites of Fujiﬁlm 
afﬁliated companies
: Fuji Xerox sites
CO2
30Target%
reduction
CO 2 emissions
in FY2020
(relative to 2005)
▼CO 2 Emissions across the Entire Product Lifecycle
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
2005
Base year2011 2012 2013 20142016 20201,8281,4873651.112257
616
464
1,338
2,197226190
709
404
1,318
2,058749188
441
1,305
2,147534203
449
1,190
2,1694011385,0494,841
615
646
1,338
2,2652535,118
4,6814,756
4,544
3,525
423
929
1,634Procurement
Emission TradingManufacturing Transportation
DisposalUse
-74CO 2
(kt-CO 2/year)
Medium-term
targetTarget(FY)Medium-term target
Target relative
to FY2005
30%
reductionPromote Global Warming 
CountermeasuresPriority
issue1
Reduce CO 2 emissions from the entire 
product lifecycle by 30% compared to 
FY2005 by FY2020 Target
The Fujifilm Group has been promoting activities to reduce CO 2 emissions by setting management indicators for 
CO 2 emissions across the entire product and service lifecycle (from material ”procurement,” product “manufac-
turing,” “transportation,” “use” and “disposal”), not only within our Group. We set the target of “reducing CO 2 
emissions for the entire lifecycle of products by 30% by FY2020 (relative to FY2005)” in April 2010, and we are con-
tinuing to actively reduce CO 2 emissions in our Group as a whole. Since FY2012, we also calculate CO 2 emissions 
based on the Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (“Scope 3”),* and report related information as required. We also carry out development of environmentally conscious products based on “Rule for Design for Environment (DfE), ” 
with which we review the degree of achievement in product performance to the target set in the design stage. These efforts should contribute to the further reduction of CO
2 emissions. 
* Scope 3: Refers to one of the scopes that are targets for calculation and reporting on greenhouse gas emissions by companies. Scope 3 refers to indirect emis-
sions, such as material procurement, manufacturing, transportation, use, disposal, as well as employees’ commuting and business travel. Scope 3 calculation is based on the General Guidelines on Supply Chain GHG Emission Accounting released jointly by METI and MOE.Basic Approach
推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 2
02,400
1,9001,400
900400
Disposal Use Transportation Manufacturing Procurement188749
4412,147
Emission tradingOthers
Aluminum
PET
TAC1,231CO2 (kt-CO 2/year)
Copiers
Printers
Fax machinesOthers
Medical equipments
MinilabGas
Petroleum
Electricity Copiers
Printers
Fax machinesTotal stress on the environment
4,756  kt-CO 2/year
6,000(kt-CO 2/year)
5,000
4,0003,0002,0001,000
0
FY20135,3295,137
FY20145,289
16%
11%3%5%
54%
4%Purchased goods
and services
Capital goods
Upstream transportation
and distributionWaste generated
in operationBusiness travelEmployee commutingUpstream
leased assetsProcessing of
sold productsUse of sold productsEnd-of-life treatment
of sold productsDownstream leased assets
Fuel and energy-related activitiesDownstream
transportation
and distribution
FY201210%
15%75%
16%10%74%Scope 3:
Other
indirect
emissions
75%
13%12%
Scope 1: Direct emissions
Scope 2: Indirect emissions resulting from 
energy usage
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions▼Energy Strategy Promotion Committee▼Fujifilm Group’s Main CO 2 Reduction Measures
Energy Strategy
Promotion Committee
Functional Film ProductionCooperation
Other Production/Ofﬁce
Energy procurement
Energy saving technologies
Wheeling system of electric powerChaired by 
Corporate VP in charge of CSRProduction Subcommittee of 
the Fuji Xerox Environmental Committee
Workplace Activity Teams
Cross-section Activity Teams▼FY2014 Results for Fujifilm Group
▼CO 2 Emissions 
(Scope 1, 2, 3)▼FY2014 Result of GHG Scope 3 Emissions for Fujifilm GroupAction area Relevant stage Principal CO 2 reduction measures
Development and dissemi -
nation of products with less environmental impactProcurement,  
use and disposal●Multifunction devices (copiers, printers, faxes) with less energy consumption (document field)   
●Energy saving medical diagnostic equipments (medical field)  ●Non-processing CTP plates 
requiring no developing solution (graphics systems field)
Reducing CO 2 emissions at 
factories and officesManufacturing●Fuel shift from heavy fuel oil to gas (Japan)  ●Use of methane gas generated at waste disposal 
sites as fuel (United States)  ●Wind power generation at factory site (Netherlands)  ●Introducing 
Solar Power Generation (United States, Netherlands)  ●Developing and introducing energy-saving 
technologies such as waste heat collection and steam collection (production sites in Japan, West -
ern nations, China, etc.)  ●Reducing the usage of energy that is not directly linked with production 
output (production sites in Japan, Western nations, China, etc.)  ●Wheeling of electric power with 
in-house co-generation system for 16 sites (Japan)  ●Usage of energy storage battery to reduce 
peak time electricity consumption (Japan)
RecyclingProcurement,  
disposal●Recycling for scrap aluminum from the production of PS/CTP plate and developing and expanding 
the use of a collecting & recycling system of used PS/CTP plate (graphics systems field) 
Efficient distribution Transportation●Paths optimization  ●Improving loading ratio  ●Promote modal shifts  ●Using light and compact 
packaging  ●Promoting eco-driving  ●Milk Run procurement system for components (China)
CO2 Emissions Reduction Across the Product Lifecycle
In FY2014, despite our Group’s production output exceed-
ing that of the base year, FY2005, the Group’s overall CO 2 
emissions were reduced by 293,000 tons (6%) from the base year level. However, CO
2 emissions from the entire group 
increased by 1.6% compared to FY2013. Although we have maintained a downward transition since FY2011, there was a 4% increase in the procurement stage due to greater pro-duction of major products. Also, a further increase occurred in the transportation and use stages through an increase in sales of copiers and multifunction devices. 
On the other hand, CO
2 emissions in the manufacturing stage were reduced by 1% compared to FY2013 despite the production increase. Compared to the base year of FY2005, we have reduced CO
2 emissions in the manufacturing stage 
by 12%, under conditions in which the CO 2 emission coef-
ficients of the electric power utilities in Japan*1 increased by 
34% compared to FY2005. This was achieved by efforts to improve the energy usage efficiency at our facilities, through promotion of energy-saving measures across the group companies, enhanced utilization of in-house co-generation system in Japan, and utilization of renewable energy in over -
seas sites. We were also able to reduce emissions by 1% compared to FY2013 in the disposal stage by cutting waste and promotion of Zero Waste Emissions. Further, we have participated to the Carbon Neutral Project led by the Ministry of the Environment and offset equivalent to 1.6% of CO
2 uti-
lizing our carbon emission credits (see page 37). 
Continuous Promotion of Energy Strategy 
The Fujifilm Group founded the Global Warming Prevention Committee in FY2007 to work on achieving significant improvements in production energy intensity and CO
2 
emissions per unit production at six major factories in Japan. We have also conducted the Energy Cost Reduction Project, including overseas companies and factories, since FY2010 to reduce energy and CO
2 emissions through enforcing 
energy-saving measures (targets of both activities were achieved in FY2012). In FY2013, such energy management schemes were renewed and restarted as the Energy Strategy Promotion Committee, now giving them control over energy procurement and supply across the company. In FY2014, we continued deploying group-wide energysaving measures, such as energy reductions that is not directly linked with production output (fixed amount of energy used regardless of the production and standby energy consumed during non-production), as well as rolling out of new energy-saving measures across the group. We also actively promoted group-wide energy-saving activities in offices as well as production processes to ensure implementation of energy-saving measures. As a result of these efforts, we improved per-unit energy use by 5%, resulting an entire annual energy cost saving effect equivalent to approx. 6%. 
Also, we started utilizing the wheeling of electric power with in-house co-generation system*
2, immediately after its 
enforcement in Japan in April 2014 following the revision of the Electricity Business Act, as our new energy measure in FY2014. Using this system, we supply the power generated in the Fujinomiya Factory to 16 sites among our group com-panies, simultaneously contributing to alleviating the peak demand to the power grid, a scheme introduced by the re-vised Act on the Rational Use of Energy, and to a reduction in electricity costs.
 
Future Prospects
In FY2015, we plan to further expand energy-saving measures across the Fujifilm Group and revise their manner of operations in order to continuously reduce energy-derived CO
2 emissions. At the same time, we will re-assess the 
energy-saving scenario to achieve the medium-term target set for FY2016 and the FY2020 target, as well as considering new targets after FY2020. For the Energy Strategy, we will expand our wheeling of electric power with in-house co-generation system to a greater number of business sites in FY2015, and plan and promote more utility measures ahead of the legal enforcement, including reform of the power and gas systems for a better future. 
*1 CO 2 emission coefficients:  
In Japan, we referred to the CO 2 emission coefficients for electric power 
utilities shown on the Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s website for 
the greenhouse gas emission calculation and reporting scheme every year.  
For overseas, we referred to CO 2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012 
(IEA).
*2 Wheeling of electric power with in-house co-generation system: The 
wheeling of electric power with in-house co-generation system enables a company to distribute electricity generated within the company to the company’s closely related business sites for non-profit purposes, using the electricity networks owned by utility companies. Using this system, the Fujifilm Group distributes power generated in Fujinomiya Factory equally to the group’s 16 business sites.Global Warming 
CountermeasuresOutline of Activities in FY2014Related Data and Information Environmental Aspects Page 64
30 31 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fujifilm’s Enthusiasm in Problem Solving and 
High Level of Awareness as a Responsible Global Corporation in the 21st Century 
In this age when everyone is being urged to create 
and implement countermeasures against global warming, the Fujifilm Group has set itself a significant challenge of a 30% reduction in its CO
2 emissions 
compared to FY2005 levels by FY2020. This effort is targeted at CO
2 emissions reduction across the 
product lifecycle, and some results have already been seen in the manufacturing stage—despite an increase in production quantities. This is a praise-worthy achievement in today’s severe business environment.
Among FY2014 activities, one notable topic is 
the commencement of the new Medium-Term CSR Plan, Sustainable Value Plan 2016. As a variety of global issues become evermore serious, it is highly appropriate and novel for a CSR plan to focus on Health, Daily Life, and Working Style, in addition to the Environment itself. From the Group’s declaration of “taking an initiative in solving social issues through innovative technologies, products, and services,” I can see their enthusiasm to challenge problem solv-ing, as well as their high level of awareness as a re-sponsible global corporation in the 21st century. 
The year of 2015 is one of the most important 
years in terms of anti-global warming activities. This is because a new international framework of CO
2 
emissions reduction will be adopted in the COP21 to be held in Paris in December. In such an impor -
tant year, it would be truly wonderful if the strong leadership of the Fujifilm Group could help “hold the increase in global average temperature below 2°C,” which is a longing common to all mankind.推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 2
Stress-free
operationHigh
environmental
performance
(no waiting)(TEC*)
RealGreen (Real energy efﬁciency)
Virtually zero waiting time between sleep mode
and copy/scan mode minimizes user stress.
*Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC) : The amount of power consumed by ofﬁce 
equipment, such as printers and copiers over a conceptual week (ﬁve days of operation 
and repeated sleep/power-off mode, plus two days of sleep/power-off mode).Smart
WelcomeEyesSmart Power SavingHigh speed recovery
from the sleep mode
Output function
becomes ready
during operationBecome
operable
immediatelyAutomatic
recovery
Eco-friendly technologyRule for Design
for Environment
(DfE)
<Fuji/f_ilm>All new products
and upgrading
products
The 11th
Eco-Products
Awards
<Fuji Xerox>Minister’s Prize,
the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry
▼Progress of “Design for Environment”Third-Party Opinion on “Promoting Anti-Global 
Warming Measures” OPINION
Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi
Special Advisor
UNEP Finance Initiative
Profile
In addition to being involved in UNEP FI, Mr. 
Sueyoshi has served in various positions, such as committee member on various types of councils on the Central Environment Council, advisor to Kawasaki City and Kagoshima City, part-time lecturer at the University of Tokyo Graduate School. He also works as an external member of the board to companies and engages in efforts to raise awareness on environmental issues and the social responsibility of companies on TV, in newspapers, published works, and lectures.
FY 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Formulation
of rulesRevision
(Addition
of biodiversity
conservation)
Revision of rules
(Visualization of
targets & assessment)
Formulation of
water footprint
calculation
guidelinesMaking internal
system to
respond to ABS
Contribution to
20 million ton
CO2 reduction
in 2020
Contribution
to response
to water risksImplementation and utilization
Implementation and utilizationFormulation of
calculation guidelines
for environmental
contribution effect
Formulation
of rules
Provision of
information on
chemical substancesSelf audit
Ecoleaf Carbon footprint
PLATE to PLATE label (Type II)
*Joint Article Management Promotion ConsortiumIntroduction of JAMP * mechanismsRevision
of rulesRevision
of rulesRevision
of rules
Promote steady operations
(Obtain information from suppliers, deploy overseas)Overall
design
for
environment
Management
of chemical
substances
contained
Promote
environmental
labelingImplement for all new products and upgrade products (FF)▼RealGreen Concept Design for 
EnvironmentOutline of Activities in FY2014
Fujifilm
Fujifilm has been working on reducing environmental impact 
for its all new and renewed products according to “Rule for Design for Environment” since 2003. 
In FY2014, we started a new effort based on the policy 
of Contribution to Solving Social Issues through Products and Services, stated in our new Medium-Term CSR Plan. We set up the target to “reduce CO
2 emissions by 20 million tons 
by 2020 (compared to 2005)” and we are making progress towards this target by visualizing the results of social contribution through our environmental efforts. Visualization is attained by calculation based on internal guidelines to Calculate the Environmental Contribution for the Reduction in CO
2 Emissions*1 over nine case studies, including our 
specially developed magnetic tapes for storage media. We also listed and organized about 40 candidate projects that may contribute in CO
2 emissions reductions, including those 
still in the stage of development in the R&D Divisions. Our environmental efforts also cover water usage, which is now a focus of the world’s attention. We commenced visualization of water usage across the product lifecycle for four case studies, mainly in the Graphic System Business area, based on the internal guidelines to calculate the water footprint established in the previous fiscal year. We plan to enhance the product coverage of such water usage visualization, publically disclose the visualized data as environmental information, and utilize it to develop products with water conservation features. 
In October 2013, the Global Guidelines to Contribute in 
GHG Emissions Reduction*
2 was internationally published. In 
order to promote understanding of the guidelines and spread their use in Japan, the Japan Chemical Industry Association published the Global Guidelines Supplement*
3 in March 
2015. Fujifilm participated in the creation of this supplement as a working group member, making suggestions in creating concrete examples of applying the guidelines using simpler languages. 
 Future Prospects
Fujifilm will create the roadmap to achieve the FY2020 tar -
gets to contribute to CO 2 emissions reduction and continues 
to strive for the attainment of such targets. Also, concerning water usage, we will expand the product coverage of water usage visualization and promote the development of prod-ucts to conserve water resources and provide the environ-mental information. 
Fujifilm continues, not only to working for internal envi-
ronmental activities, but also for external working groups by actively involving ourselves in disseminating an environmen-tally conscious approach across the whole of society.
*1 The internal guidelines to Calculate the Environmental Contribution for the 
Reduction in CO 2 Emissions: A compilation of approaches and methods 
to visualize contributions to CO 2 emissions reduction in a quantitative 
manner across the product lifecycle, including the stage of customer 
usage. 
*2 Global Guidelines to Contribute to GHG Emissions Reduction: The 
“world’s first global guidelines to calculate the contribution to GHG emissions reduction in a value chain,” published in October 2013 by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Chemical Sector project based on the Guidelines to Calculate Contributions to CO
2 
Emissions Reduction (in Japanese) published by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. 
*3 Global Guidelines Supplement: A publication supplementing the above 
guidelines with an easy-to-understand explanation of the following as-pects, together with concrete examples: definitions of chemical product level and end-use level in a value chain, scope of contribution products, definition of contribution significance, how to specify service life, how to choose data to be used, and other notes.Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox is working on cutting its environmental impact both 
in terms of hardware and software, in order to minimize our products’ impact on global warming. Under the concept of RealGreen, product development is proceeds with atten-tion given to both reducing the global environmental impact through energy conservation, etc., and paradoxically, to the pursuit of the values of comfort and convenience. Eco-friendly technologies have been introduced for new models in all product lineups. By replacing older models, we are seeking to reduce power consumption when customers use our products.
In FY 2014, Versant
TM 2100 Press, the color on-demand 
publishing system received the “Minister’s Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry” of the Eco-Products cat-egory at the 11th Eco-Products Awards, organized by the Eco-Products Awards Steering Committee (see page 25). 
Use of efficient remote servicing is being promoted for 
product inspection and maintenance. Specifically, customers subscribing to our Remote Service EP-BB service contract receive firmware updates remotely, in order to reduce the number of visits to customer sites. In FY 2014, these activi-ties have picked up speed, with the introduction of a remote inspection system that forecasts the timing of parts replace-ments and fault prediction in order to optimize the timing for inspections. As a result, the number of visits has been cut down by roughly 45% over the previous year and this has reduced CO
2 emission generated by vehicle use.
 Future Prospects
In the future, the company plans to provide its customers and society with outstanding environmental values through environmentally-friendly products and solutions services through eco-friendly technologies that the company had de-veloped over its history.
Response to the third-party opinion
We sincerely appreciate your high evaluation on the Fujifilm 
Group’s target of “reducing CO 2 emissions across the 
entire product lifecycle by 30% compared to FY2005 by FY2020,” and on our initiative toward “solving social issues through our business” declared in the Medium-Term CSR Plan, Sustainable Value Plan 2016. 
The Fujifilm Group will continue its existing CSR 
measures, such as energy saving activities in manufacturing; enhancing the wheeling of electric power, which we started last year; and utilization of renewable energies, including wind and solar power. We will also be enhancing anti-global warming measures through our products and services to continue our efforts as a Group to achieve more challenging CSR targets. 
(
CSR Group, Corporate Planning Division, FUJIFILM Holdings )
32 33 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 2
Water source in FUJIFILM Ashigara FactoryPromote Resource RecyclingPriority
issue2
(1)   Reduce volume of waste generated by 8% compared to  
FY2012 by FY2016
(2)   Reduce material input per unit by 10% compared to FY2012  
by FY2020 (Create an input control system by FY2016,  such as setting indices per unit and verifying the efficacy)
(3)   Maintain water usage per sales (water input per unit)  
at FY2012 levelsTargetResponse to Water Risks
Since our establishment, the 
Fujifilm Group has been working toward water usage reduction and water recycling. In FY2013, we set the medium-term target of “maintaining water usage per sales (water input per unit)* at FY2012 levels” in order to ad-dress the water risk, which is now of growing concern and achieved the target of FY2014. We believed that our water risk was low as our production sites with high water usage are all located in Japan, where water is abundant. However, in FY2014, we identified our group sites with relatively higher water risk through visual-ization using a matrix with two indices: “water stress” and “impact on company business in terms of water usage.”
*=Water usage/revenue
 Future Prospects
We are pursuing our efforts in water usage reduction and water recycling by maintaining the level of water usage per unit set as the medium-term target and implementing water risk countermeasures in our group sites according to their water risk levels and actual business operations. We are also planning to survey and reduce water usage in our suppliers and customers.
▼Fuji Xerox Reduction of New Resource Input through 
the Reuse of Parts* 
(Total for Japan, the Asia-Pacific Region, and China)
01,0002,0003,0004,000(t)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY)2,272 2,361
2,0002,875 2,916
*CO 2 emission reduction achieved through the use of recycled parts. This represents 
the amount of CO 2 emissions that would have been generated at the production 
stage with the manufacture of new parts, if recycled parts had not been used.Product
development
Recycle and reuseReduce waste to minimum in productionDesign products which generate minimal waste
[Promotion of effective use of resources][Reduce loss in production][Design for Environment]
Reduce loss in production and reduce the occurrence of defectsConsider the 3Rs, “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle”
Manufacturing
Treatment of
emissions
Comprehensive efforts to promote waste reduction
and effective use of resourcesImproving the quality of recycling (Heat recovery     Material recycling), 
and the reusing of resources in products▼Outline of Measurements for Waste Reduction  in Fujifilm Group
Japan
Water Stress Map: Mapping Fujiﬁlm Group’s water usage into 2025 Water Stress Map (UNEP)China/AsiaEurope North America
South CarolinaThe Netherlands UK
Suzhou Province ShanghaiHebei Province 88%3%5% 4%
–500 m3 
500–1,000 m3
1,000–1,700 m3
1,700–4,000 m3
4,000–10,000 m3Scarcity
Stress
Sufﬁcient quantities
10,000 m3–Annual water availability per capita for 2025(       shows size of water usage)Fujiﬁlm
Fuji Xerox▼Water Usage per Unit 
(usage/revenue)
▼Assessment Map of the Impact of Water Resources on Company Business3.0
2.82.62.42.22.01.81.61.41.21.0 (Million tons/year_100 million yen)
2012 2013 20141.942.022.38
(FY)Target
Target achieved
1123456
2 3 4 5 6 7High Middle
MiddleLow
Low
Assessment of water usage & business risks
: Worksites (production sites & non-production sites)Degree of impact on company businessAssessment of locations in water stress regions
Watershed environmental risks
HighRecycle rate of
recovered used
products
<Fuji Xerox>99.5More
than% at
all sites
Zero emission rate for
all regions (Japan, US,
Europe, and China).
<Fuji/f_ilm>90%More
than
▼2025 Water Stress Map and 2013 Fujifilm Group’s Water UsageThe Fujifilm Group has always been aware of the importance of effective use of natural resources, as the main 
raw material for photographic film, the main product at the time of our establishment, is the precious natural resource, silver, and to which lots of clean water and fresh air are essential in manufacturing. Since our establish-ment, we actively continue with our efforts to reduce the amount of virgin resources, such as by reducing water usage, recycling and reusing water, recovering and reusing silver, and establishing a resource recycling system for multifunction devices and copiers, etc. We are conducting efforts to use resources effectively and reduce waste through measures which take into account the total lifecycle of a product, by considering the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) in the product design, reducing loss at the manufacturing stage, collecting, reusing and recycling used products, and recycling or converting into valuables.Basic Approach
Measures to Reduce Waste
The Fujifilm Group is making comprehensive efforts to use 
resources effectively and reduce waste throughout the entire lifecycle of its products, from design to manufacturing and disposing. We think carefully about the most effective ways to use resources and reduce waste as much as possible, by considering reduction of resources in products and recy-cling after use in the design stage, and reducing losses at the manufacturing stage. Meanwhile, we are concerned about waste emitted necessarily in manufacturing too, and since FY2011 we have been involved in project as Fujifilm Group to convert waste in manufacturing into valuables and raise the value of these valuables. In addition to activities at production sites, we have expanded to wastes in office and warehouse for transportation, promoted our measure in the scope of our business activities overall.
Regarding waste in office, we have improved used 
paper recycling by roughly 20% in the Tokyo metropolitan and Kanto regions through consolidated management by the Group’s shared company. At distribution warehouses, plastics used for packaging have previously been disposed of as waste due to the low volume and wide variety. Starting at the end of October 2014, these plastics have been gath-ered by area for sorting and collecting by a contractor ser -
vice. Such efforts are expected to generate value for roughly half of the plastics collected, thus cutting down waste out-put. With these activities, we were able to cut down waste by 9% in FY2014, achieving the Medium-Term Target of reduc-ing volume of waste generated by 8% compared to FY2012 by FY2016 two years early. Outsourced waste disposal cost had also been reduced by 28% by end of FY2014 (compared to FY2010). Reduction of waste to be disposed of by simple incineration/landfill (zero emission) is underway on a global scale. In FY2014, the Group achieved zero emissions of over 90% for all regions (Japan, US, Europe, and China).
 
Future Prospects
We are progressing continual waste reduction and utilization of resources, following cost reduction through group-wide optimization. We are also considering a higher targets for waste output.
Measures to Zero Landfill from Products
At Fuji Xerox, based on the approach that “used products are not waste products but valuable resources,” we have been introducing resource recycling activities aiming for Infinite Zero Landfill*
1 through the maximum use of resources by col-
lecting used products and reusing and recycling*2 them. We 
have achieved Zero Landfill from the collected used products in Japan by recycling them as a part of other products. We also established resource recycling systems equivalent to that in Japan in China and the Asia Pacific region based on the idea that we have same responsibility to reduce environ-mental impact in all the regions where we conduct business as a global corporation. As a result of such efforts, we have been maintaining more than 99.5% of resource recycling rate, which is the target rate for Zero Landfill, in all of our business areas*
3 since FY2010.
As for new resource inputs, we managed to reduce 
these by 41 tons in FY2014 from the previous year. However, we expect that it will be more difficult to retain such a reduc-tion rate of these inputs against the increase in the amount of products and parts due to advancements in downsizing and weight reduction in products and consumables.
 
Future Prospects
We are progressing with the further utilization of resourc-es and reductions in environmental impact to enhance the “quality” of recycling, such as by improving the working en-vironment in dismantling processing bases while maintaining Zero Landfill in all of our business operation areas. 
*1 Definition of “Zero Landfill”: Reduction of simple incineration or landfill to 
under 0.5% of total waste output.
*2 Reusing: Either parts are reused as they are, or their materials are reused.  
Recycling: Components that could not be reused are recycled as a 
resource for other purposes.
*3 Japan, China and the Asia PacificOutline of Activities in FY2014Related Data and Information Environmental Aspects Page 65
34 35 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fujifilm Holdings was selected as one of the businesses for the 
FY2014 Carbon Neutral Certification Model Project, and eventu-ally received the Carbon Neutral Certification in its headquarters building and three other major office buildings. The company’s carbon neutral* status (zero CO
2 emissions) was achieved by the 
Clean Development Mechanism defined in the Kyoto Protocol, offsetting the entire amount of FY2013 CO
2 emissions (13,043 
tons) including those derived from fuel and electricity usage (Scope 1 and 2), as well as from paper usage, waste emissions, business travel, and employee commuting (Scope 3). 
We have actively installed a number of energy-saving meas-
ures in offices, such as usage of LED desk lights along with the activities to raise environmental awareness among employees. Acquirement of Carbon Neutral Certification offsets the remain-ing CO
2 emissions by utilizing Certified Emission Reductions 
(CER) credits gained from hydroelectric power generation in de-veloping countries and other contributions. Such CO
2 emissions 
offset also helps anti-global warming measures in developing countries. We will further accelerate the global warming counter -
measures to achieve the FY2020 CO
2 emissions reduction tar -
get through the united effort of all group companies. 
* Carbon neutral: A scheme that can offset the entire amount of GHG emis-
sions from the activities of a business or other organization with the amount of the organization’s GHG emissions reduction made in other areas. The Carbon Offset refers to the system that can offsets a part (or all) of GHG emissions. Japan’s Ministry of the Environment started the Carbon Offset Scheme in 2012 to promote and support offsetting or neutralizing GHG emissions. Achieving zero CO 2 emissions in four major office 
buildings by utilizing Carbon Neutral CertificationPriority  
Issue
1
推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進Solve environmental issues 
within business processes actively.FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 2
* Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP): A cross industry organiza-tion established in 2006 to ensure smooth communication and management of infor -
mation on chemical substances contained in products throughout the supply chain.Procurement
Acquiring, managing and communicating information on 
chemical substances (using the JAMP* framework)Manufacturing SalesFujifilm Green Procurement Standards
Chemical 
productsFunctional  
material productsElectrical and 
electronic products
Upstream Midstream Downstream●Raw  
materi -
als
●Mix-
tures
●Parts
●Compo -
nentsEnvironmental 
safety manage-ment of chemi-cal substances
Management 
of chemical substances in productsEnsure Product and Chemical SafetyPriority
issue3
Contribute to “Minimization of adverse effect to 
environment and human health from chemical substances in production and usage by FY2020”Target
Classifi-
cationClassification criteria Management practice
C0Prohibited by laws and regulations and 
management policy(Prohibited)
C1Discontinue usage, reduce amount of usage or reduce emissions based on management policy (hexavalent chromium, formalin, and dichloromethane, etc.)Discontinue usage, or reduce amount of usage or emissions
C2●Notifications and/or approval is required 
by laws and regulations
●Particularly hazardous (carcinogen, explosive, etc.)
●Limited handling based on management policy (lead compounds, etc.)Enclose or restrictive 
management
C3Specified laws or regulations applied, or having specified hazardsManagement based on risk assessment
C4 Classification other than C0 to C3General management (management based on SDS and laws and regulations)
SSpecially managed substances: No relevant laws, regulations or hazards data but potential risk is concerned.Start research for replacement or reduction of usage amount, emission or exposure▼Classification Criteria for Chemical Substances and Management Practice Based on the Classification
(Classificati on criteria: Hazard, laws and regulations in Japan and overseas, and management policy)Because the Fujifilm Group manufactures a wide range of products such as chemical products, functional mate-
rials, optical devices, office equipment, and medical equipment, etc., we have established and implement man-agement rules according to the respective composition and manufacturing processes of our products, from the perspective of management of the handling of chemical substances and management of information on chemical substances. Since 2010, in our Medium-Term CSR Plan, we have been making efforts for the priority issues of establishing and disseminating the framework to acquire, manage, and communicate information on chemical substances contained in products along the supply chain and enhancing our system to acquire information on laws and regulations in each country and region around the world accurately, and to ensure response efficiently.
Management of Chemical Substances 
Fujifilm classifies and manages the chemical substances used 
in its business according to applicable laws and regulations, as well as their hazard and the company’s management policies. For chemical substances identified as possessing a certain hazard level, it is mandatory to assess the risks from the sub -
stance prior to its use and according to how it is to be used. The revised Industrial Safety and Health Act will be enforced in Japan in Spring 2016, and this will make an assessment of human health risks mandatory when using substances spec -
ified by the Order for Enforcement of the Industrial Safety and Health Act (as Dangerous or Harmful Substances Subject to Labeling, etc.), which is currently only a recommended effort. With this institutional change in sight, in FY2014, we enhanced our current methods to assess risks from chemi -
cal substance use in production, and developed them into a method to quickly provide assessment results that take into account a wider scope of chemical substance usage—not only in production, but also in research and development. 
Based on the chemical substance information system in -
stalled in Fujifilm in 2009, Fuji Xerox also started using the infor -
mation management system that centrally tracks the chemical substance information from all affiliated companies in order to comply with increasing chemical-related laws in a definite and efficient manner. Fuji Xerox is in the process of installing the system at its domestic and overseas sites in FY2014.
Future Prospects
We will plan to utilize this new risk assessment method in FY2015 after making adjustments to ensure its consistency with details of the revised Industrial Safety and Health Act. 
Management of Chemical Substances in Products
As a part of the reinforcement of our efforts to appropriately manage chemical substances in products, Fujifilm is making progress in spreading use of a system to manage chemical substances in products across its supply chain utilizing the Outline of Activities in FY2014Basic Approach
information communication tools provided by the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP)*. In FY2014, we expanded this system from Japan to other Asian countries (see page 37). To ensure compliance to related laws, in FY2012 Fuji Xerox revised the chemical substance audit method so that we could learn how chemical substances are managed by busi-ness partners and they could understand the problems, if any. 
In FY2013, this new auditing system was enforced at all 
Fuji Xerox business partners. In FY2014, the company started offering support and instructions to business partners that do not achieve the required standard to improve chemical man -
agement levels across the entire spectrum of business partners.
 Future Prospects
Fujifilm will expand this system JAMP provided to the Group companies in Asia. In FY2015, we plan to implement the sys-tem across the supply chain through regular briefings for our business partners and offering various forms of support that take account of individual partners’ actual situation, aiming to continue supplying products that boast highly-managed chemical substance usage. 
Fujifilm Electronic Materials 
USA, Inc. responsible for the manufacturing and sale of materials for semi-conductor devices has 
made great success in the reduction of waste output and con-version of waste into valuable substances. By recycling a num-ber of waste solvents that had been disposed of in the past, the company was able to provide them as a product used in semiconductor manufacturing processing . Waste solvents from the factory in Mesa, Arizona, were recycled and commercialized in cooperation with its client company. This process converts what was basically waste into an application that generates value. Furthermore, the company uncovered a market for mixed solvents as another byproduct, which were previously  waste solvents. At present, roughly 90% of the waste solvents are be-ing sold as products or secondary products.
This resulted in the recycling of 169 tons of waste solvents 
that had undergone waste treatment and at the same time a re-duction in cost of more than US$16,000 (¥1.76 million*) in 2014.
Fujifilm consolidated all of its waste treatment contractors 
for its US plants in 2013 and taken other actions towards zero emission in the US, where action in this area lagged behind ef-forts in Japan and Europe. The company plans to engage in vari-ous other recycling activities towards the global implementation of resource recycling.
* Converted at the rate of ¥110 to the US dollarUS plant promotes conversion of waste into 
valuable substances and recycles 169 tons of waste solventsPriority  
Issue
2
Many countries are currently reinforcing their laws and regula-
tions concerning chemical substances used in products, such as the RoHS directives and REACH. To ensure compliance with such laws and regulations, Fujifilm uses the information communication tools offered by the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP). Utilizing the chemical substance 
management system also Management of chemical substance usage 
information across the supply chain started in China
Briefing on the chemical substance man-
agement tool to business partnersPriority  
Issue
3
offered by JAMP in conjunction 
with the information communi-cation tools, we share informa-tion on the chemical substances used in our products with overseas subsidiaries. We are also enlarging the scope of the system and tool usage throughout the supply chain. 
This expansion was made to Asian countries in 2014. 
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. which is our lar -
gest production site in China, held a briefing session for local business partners. With the agreement of the partners attended the meeting, we started gathering chemical substance informa-tion using the JAMP system and tools with common information sharing formats. We are now working together with our busi-ness partners to collect and publish this chemical substance information.
36 37 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015page 40 page 45 page 48Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.FUJIFILM
Sustainable Value Plan2016
Promotion 
policy3
1. Raise compliance 
awareness and ensure 
risk management2. Develop and utilize 
diverse human resources3. Enhance value chain 
management from the viewpoint of CSREnhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
For continuing and sustainable growth, a business corporation is required to not only 
fulfill its economic and legal responsibilities but also regard its responsibilities toward various stakeholders. In the Sustainable Value Plan 2016, “Compliance and Risk Management,” “Human Resources,” and “Value Chain Management” are identified as priority issues for maintaining Fujifilm Group’s sustainable corporate activities.Fujiﬁlm Group
Procurement
Policy
[Basic]
Fujiﬁlm Group CSR Procurement GuidelinesRespect for basic human rights, elimination of discrimination, prohibition of 
non-humanitarian treatment, workers’ rights, prohibition of forced and child labor, restraint on extended work hours, wages, privacy, and occupational safety and healthThe Fuji/f_ilm group will conduct its procurement based on the basic concepts listed below, while building mutual trust and respect with suppliers.
1. We will engage in ethical trading in compliance with laws, regulations and social norms, paying 
full considerations to perspectives including human rights, environment, occupational health and 
safety.
2. We will treat all bidders with fairness and ensure that they are given the same level of information 
when preparing quotations. We will provide trading opportunities to all domestic and overseas suppliers, and actively consider procurement from newcomers.
3. We will conduct procurement activities with reputable and reliable suppliers which are selected 
from comprehensive perspectives including quality, price, delivery time, technical capabilities, CSR activities and business continuity.
 Note that ‘procurement’ under this policy covers not only the procurement of parts and materials 
for products, but also various trade activities such as procurement of indirectly related materials, maintenance and management service of facilities.
Respect for human rights
Active communications, information disclosure, fair trade, prohibition of abuse of superior status, prohibition of corruption, offer of unfair beneﬁts, severance of ties with antisocial forces, compliance with export/import laws and regulations, quality & product safety, protection of conﬁdential information, intellectual property rights protection and preservation of personal information environmentOpen, fair and clear 
business activities
Promotion of green purchasing, prevention of global warming, waste control, 
prevention of environmental pollution and preservation of natural resourcesPreservation and protection 
of the environment
Management system and internal/external communicationDevelopment of management systems and schemes
ManualsRequests to
Suppliers
Important 28
CSR items in
four categoriesProcurement R&D/Manufacturing Transportation Use Disposal/RecyclingFujiﬁlm Group’s Main CSR ActivitiesPromote Global Warming Countermeasures Page 30     Ensure Product and Chemical Safety Page 36
Raise Compliance Awareness and Ensure Risk Management Page 40     Social Contribution Activities Page 53
Promote Resource Recycling Page 34
Biodiversity Conservation Page 50Promote Resource
Recycling Page 34
Biodiversity
Conservation Page 50
Develop and Utilize
Diverse Human
Resources Page 45Products and Services
which Re/f_lect Our
Customers’ Views
Page 56Enhance Value Chain
Management from
the Viewpoint of CSR
Page 48▼CSR Activities Promoting throughout the Value Chain
The Fujifilm Group established its Charter for Corporate 
Behavior, Code of Conduct, and Approach to CSR and promotes CSR through sincere and fair business activities. In order to expand and strengthen our activities, it is necessary to collaborate all processes, procurement, manufacturing, transportation, use, and disposal throughout the value chain.
In March 2015, the Fujifilm Group revised the Procurement Policy and presented the “Requests to Suppliers” in an effort to enhance value chain management. We will keep recog-nizing social effect through our business activities and our responsibilities, and aspire for establishing a sustainable val-ue chain with mutual growth through understanding and im-plementation of these activities not only within the Group but also by our business partners.
39 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 38 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
Charter for Corporate Behavior 
and Code of ConductRaise Compliance Awareness and Ensure Risk ManagementPriority
issue1
(1)   Maintain 100% awareness of major risks and full-scale performance of 
awareness-raising schemes
(2)   Ensure offering health promotion opportunities to employees
(3)   Be aware of risk of human right issues across the Fujifilm GroupTargets
The Fujifilm Group interprets compliance as “more than simply not breaking the law and acting correctly in the 
light of common sense and ethics.” We believe that we achieve compliance by responding flexibly with a keen sen-sibility to the needs of society. A lack of awareness of compliance often leads to increased risk. Consequently, compliance and risk represent two sides of the same coin. A dedicated department in each operating company of the Fujifilm Group manages risks in a comprehensive and integrated manner, recognizing that promoting compli-ance and managing the risks associated with business operations is a single continuum. We steadfastly advance compliance and risk-management activities across the Group, with our two operating companies, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, overseeing their respective affiliates in Japan and overseas.
The Fujifilm Group ensures compliance with laws and regulations, including those related to respect for basic 
human rights, which is the most fundamental compliance item, as well as for occupational health, the basis for all business activities. 
 Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct/Compliance Statement http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/philosophy/law/Basic Approach
Related Data and Information Compliance and Risk Management Page 60Compliance Outline of Activities in FY2014
Fujifilm Group
As a set of fundamental policies, we have formulated the 
Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct. We have also established the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct to better guide each employee to act and behave in compliance with laws, regulations and social ethics and make it clear that we give the first priority to compliance in our business activities. We have established a division that is exclusively responsible for promoting compliance and in-stilling a compliance based mindset throughout the Group within each of our principal operating companies: FUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. 
<About the anti-corruption matters>
The Fujifilm Group has never been investigated by administrative 
authorities concerning any anti-corruption matters.We also maintain offices to provide consultations and sup-
port communications regarding infringement issues both within and outside the operating companies. This effort is meant to facilitate the early detection of illegal or improp-er behavior and ensure prompt and appropriate response measures. All the communications and information are kept confidential and reported to the CSR Committee chaired by the president of FUJIFILM Holdings.
Establishment of
foundation at each company
● Formulation of a Code of 
Conduct for Employees
● Launch of body (committee) in charge of issue
● Opening of helpline/consulting facility
● Start raising employees’ awareness, education, and monitoring through awareness surveys and brie/f_ing sessionsEstablishment of foundation
for the entire Fujiﬁlm Group
● Foundation of FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Committee
● Revision of Group’s Corporate Philosophy and Charter for Corporate Behavior, and formulation of Vision and Code of Conduct and raising awareness
● Expansion of initiative to Group companies outside Japan● Foundation of FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Committee
● Revision of Group’s Corporate Philosophy and Charter for Corporate Behavior, and formulation of Vision and Code of Conduct and raising awareness
● Expansion of initiative to Group companies outside JapanResponses to
individual priority issuesImplementation of the
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
● Introduction of anti-corruption rules
● Review of risk issues against large earthquakes and a possible eruption of Mt. Fuji
● Establishment of a system to ensure no relations with antisocial forces
● Introduction of information security measures and guidelines
etc.● Review and clari/f_ication of serious risks for the Fuji/f_ilm Group
● Strengthen measures to raise awareness on rules and regulations 
etc.FY1997 to FY2005 FY2006 to FY2008 FY2009 to FY2013 FY2014 to FY2016▼Measures Implemented for Compliance and Risk ManagementFujifilm
Fujifilm regards the promotion of compliance and risk man-
agement as a single activity and centrally manages and conducts related efforts through the Compliance and Risk Management Division (CP&RM), which is dedicated solely to the activity.
The company provides managers of its Group compa-
nies with compliance education concerning information secu-rity, harassment, export matters, and other items every year, and what the managers have learned is then communicat-ed at their workplaces to raise awareness among all Group employees. Also, for its bases outside Japan, Fujifilm fosters compliance in consideration of the actual local situation.
In response to the recent enhancement of anti-corruption 
laws across the globe, Fujifilm introduced anti-corruption rules to its Group companies in April 2014 and has since been regularly carrying out in-house audits to ensure compliance with these rules.*
 
Future Prospects
Fujifilm will conduct onsite compliance audits also at its bases outside Japan and increase transparency regarding compliance. In FY2015 the company plans to conduct an opinion survey targeting all employees, with a view to checking the level of their compliance awareness and identifying the compliance-related problems faced by employees. Fuji Xerox
At Fuji Xerox, we have laid down our Action Guidelines re-lating to ethics and compliance, and we are working to en-hance the system and its mechanisms in order to embed it in the actions of each and every executive officer and em-ployee. With worldwide action to strengthen and implement laws on the prevention of corruption, the company and all domestic subsidiaries established related regulations in FY2013. In FY2014, implementation was completed for the entire Group, including overseas companies. 
In compliance training, we annually conducted the web-
based training aimed at the prevention of misconduct and harassment, as well as the “Legal Risk Assessment Test,” which is an educational tool concerning general legal affairs for employees, jointly developed by FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox. Rank-based compliance training is also being upgraded. In addition to group training for newly appointed managers, we have developed a web-based train-ing program (educational video) in FY2014 for all managers.
 
Future Prospects
For the further implementation of effective training, programs covering the laws essential for new businesses and glob-al business activities are being upgraded to improve legal awareness and ensure a full understanding of basic legal knowledge among all employees, including those in over -
seas subsidiaries.
General Affairs
DepartmentLegal Affairs
Department Human Resources
Department
Organization of Fuji Xerox and its afﬁliatesEthics and Compliance Committee
Ethics and Compliance CommitteeCSR CouncilBusiness execution
(President)Board of Directors
Internal Audit
& Analysis
DepartmentBoard of
Corporate
Auditors
Purposes/Roles/Responsibility
Management
toolsCommunication/
EducationMonitoring
Risk management/
Information disclosure● Business rules
● Guidelines● Training on laws
● Prevention of 
misconduct● Job function
● Designated department
Audit/CorrectionProblem presentation/
Whistle-blowing
Overseas SitesDomestic SitesEthics and Compliance Management Rules(1) Serious complaints about products 
(including PL issues)
(2) Environmental risks
(3) Safety risks outside Japan(4) Export-related risks(5) Risk of personal information leaks(6) Risk of corporate attacks(7) Disaster-related risksPrompt decisions and responses made by seven study groups for:
● Information security and protection of 
personal information
Formulation and implementation of advanced safety management measures
● Compliance with laws concerning 
antimonopolies and subcontractingEstablishment of in-house rules and regular in-house auditing
● Strict export control
Improvement of in-house system for steady and efﬁcient export controlTotal Risk Management Committee Compliance Committee
Secretariat Secretariat
General Manager of Compliance and
Risk Management DivisionGeneral Manager of Compliance and
Risk Management DivisionGeneral Manager
of Compliance
and Risk
Management
Division
Responses to major priority issues
● Anti-corruption measures
Introduction of in-house rules to ensure appropriate business activities
● Measures to ensure transparency in relationships 
with medical facilities and othersFormulation of guidelines to ensure transparency in business activities and disclosure of related information (since FY2014)
● Bioethics
Fostering bioethics through ethical examinations on life science-related research and businessRoles:
CSR Division
Compliance 
and Risk
Management
DivisionRoles:
1. Prevention of the actualization and 
expansion of risks
2. Undertaking preparatory measures
3. Implementation of preventive activities1. Dissemination of the Fujiﬁlm Group Charter 
for Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct
2. Follow-up to the dissemination of the Code of 
Conduct
3. Response to violations to the Code of Conduct
Chairman: Chairman
● Vice chairman: President
● Regular committee members:
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for CSR 
management
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for 
consolidated corporate management
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for general 
administration
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for legal affairsExecutive ofﬁcer responsible for PRChairman: President
● Vice chairman:
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for CSR 
management
● Regular committee members:
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for consolidated corporate management
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for personnelExecutive ofﬁcer responsible for general 
administration
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for legal affairs▼ Compliance and Risk Management Promotional Organization 
(Fujifilm and its affiliates)▼ Corporate Ethics and Compliance Promotion 
System (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
40 41 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
Large
Small
Low HighImpact on business
Occurrence frequencyOccurs rarely
or by chanceOccurs once in
the next 10 yearOccurs once in the
next several yearsOccurs once in
the next 1 yearOccurs frequently
(high occurrence rate)Wide range suspension of business for one week to one month
Pullouts or pullbacks due to loss of trust by customers, society, etc.Risks managed by the Fuji Xerox’s management
Suspension of operations for one to several daysReported by some medias/Occurrence of injured person, etc.Risks managed by umbrella organization
Risks managed by departmentsCompliance and Risk
Management DivisionSet up at each
Fujiﬁlm afﬁliateExternal compliance
consulting facility*SupervisorEmployees of Fuji/f_ilm
SupervisorEmployees of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliates
Employees of Fuji/f_ilm Employees of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliatesPresidents of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliatesGeneral Manager of Supervising
Division in Fuji/f_ilm
Secretariat of Total Risk Manageme nt Commit tee
(General  Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
*External compliance consulting facility is set up for employees in case 
where, for whatever the reason, they feel they cannot directly report to 
company or supervisor, even if they ﬁnd risk-related information.Secretariat of Compliance Committee
(General Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
Compliance consulting facilityInternal consulting
facility
Corporate Executive CommitteeSecretariat
General Affairs
Department
CSR Department
Human Resources
Department
Corporate Strategy
Department Risk Management CommitteeCSR CommitteeRelated Data and Information Compliance and Risk Management Page 60Risk ManagementOutline of Activities in FY2014
Fujifilm Group 
Each operating company establishes and maintains its 
own appropriate risk management systems. Following pre-scribed procedures, the operating companies report their risk management activities, including preventive measures and countermeasures against materialized risks to the CSR Committee secretariat. With regard to significant risks in Group operations, the CSR Committee takes a group-wide perspective in examining appropriate countermeasures and effecting their implementation. As a holding company, FUJIFILM Holdings supervises business execution by sub-sidiaries from the standpoint of its shareholders, while also conducting operations common to the Group in a unified, efficient and appropriate manner.
Fujifilm
Fujifilm has been implementing countermeasures against companywide risks, which we identified based on the risks faced by each division and set as common issues. In FY2011, in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake and the disaster scenarios envisioned in the event of an eruption of Mount Fuji, an earthquake occurring directly un-der the Tokyo Metropolitan Area or a massive interrelated earthquake (Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai earthquakes along the Nankai trough), we reviewed its companywide risks to supplement and strengthen its countermeasures.
In FY2014, we conducted training for the risk manag-
ers in each Group organization to raise our risk management awareness and capabilities to deal with such risks. We are also enhancing the measures for employees visiting or liv-ing in developing countries on business as part of our effort to strengthen risk management for the safety of employees outside Japan (see page 51). Further, all employees were given E-learning opportunities to maintain and increase their information security levels and deepen their understanding of information security rules and guidelines on specific activities to be undertaken. 
 
Future Prospects
Fujifilm will continue to identify priority risk issues through the PDCA cycle and formulate and implement specific action plans.
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox places a priority on actively managing risk, not just in emergencies, but also in its daily business operations, based on ALL-FX Risk Management Rules. Potential risks are managed based on occurrence frequency and impact on management. Responsibilities and authority, formulation and implementation of countermeasures are set out to each risk. In risk management, we select priority issues, with attention given to changes in social and business conditions, the status of our business operations, the occurrence frequency, impact on management, etc. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, we have developed emergency response policy for major natural disasters and are continuously working on BCP reinforcement activities. As for the pandemic outbreak, the measures to the spread of contagious diseases are being implemented based on emergency response guidelines. In information security, we will focus on measures to targeted attacks and enhancement of the security management system of our service contractors.
 
Future Prospects
We will work on improving the initial response to prepare for the occurrence of large-scale natural disasters and will continually enhance risk response to prevent information security risk.
▼ System of Collect Information on Risk and Compliance 
Consulting (Fujifilm)
▼Risk Management System (Fuji Xerox)
▼Risk Map for Risk Management (Fuji Xerox)Not Smoking
Campaign90Approx.
persons
stopped
smokingCost for occupational
health and safety1,567millionyenRelated Data and Information Sustainability Accounting Page 69Occupational Health and 
Safety/Promotion of HealthOutline of Activities in FY2014
Fujifilm Group
In order to implement its vision of maintaining its position as 
a leading company by Creating New Value, the Fujifilm Group deems it important to ensure that employees can work with vigor and in good health both physically and mentally at their workplaces. In the Group, however, we suffered further cases of decrease labor productivity and an increase in medical costs, and in response we established a group-wide health promotion council composed of the Group companies’ personnel departments, industrial doctors, and the Fujifilm Group health insurance association in July 2013. The council has since been conducting activities focusing on four areas: prevention of serious lifestyle-related diseases; quitting smoking; mental health; and prevention of overwork. KPIs were set for each area and we are fostering collaboration between the related organizations.
In FY2014, based on the results of the continued 
Not Smoking　Campaign, we established a permanent stop-smoking assistance program in April 2015. We also added “measures against cancers” to our priority areas for health promotion and opened the Nishiazabu Medical Center (see page 51) to raise the cancer detection rate among em-ployees as part of further enhancements to our health pro-motion activities.
Fujifilm
Fujifilm is working to provide employees with safe and com-fortable workplaces based on the safety policies and plans set out for each business site. Specifically, the members of the Occupational Safety and Health Committee, includ-ing factory managers, make regular patrols of the facilities, assess risks to ensure the inherent safety of equipment at the design stage, conduct emergency drills against fires and earthquakes with the participation of all employees, and pro-vide employees with education on hazard prediction (KY) and risk assessment concerning chemical substances. We also provide employees with safety education and expands the target of hands-on risk seminars to include the employees of our affiliates. In the seminars, participants have a virtu-al experience of what it would be like to “get caught by a machine” and “getting an electrical shock” to increase their sensitivity to risks. 
From FY2015, in consideration of the fact that flammable 
materials are often in use, Fujifilm is now preparing a hands-on seminar on the prevention of explosions to have virtual experience of fires and explosions caused by flammable ma-terials. Moreover, for the prevention of similar accidents at its affiliates, we developed an initiative to centrally manage all accident-related information horizontally and gave important tips to all affiliates to help them prevent similar accidents.
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox and its affiliates and sales companies are conducting activities with an aim for realization of safe and pleasant workplace, and health of employees both physically and mentally. To prevent work accidents, each factory investigated the cause of the accidents through the activity of safety and health committee, examined preventive measures of recurrence and continuously raised employee awareness. As a result, in fiscal 2014, the number of work accidents per 1,000 employees was 1.01 cases (decreased 1.64 cases compared with the previous fiscal year) for Fuji Xerox (unconsolidated) and the number of work accidents was 10 cases (decreased 15 cases) which included 0 cases of accident that required absence from work (decreased 11 cases). 
As health-promoting action, we introduced ban on 
smoking during working hours and are improving the medical examination system which will lead to the early detection of cancer.
 
Future Prospects
We plan to implement the Group employees’ medical and health data integration project launched in January 2014 at Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox in FY2015, and then at our affiliates and sales companies in Japan in FY2016. We expect that integrating the data managed separately by each business site, industrial doctor, and the health insurance associa-tion into one database will foster more appropriate use of the data and have a positive effect on our health promotion measures, health instructions by industrial doctors, and self-care activities by employees. 
At Fujifilm, we will also deploy the group-wide measures 
to share important tips for accident-related information to overseas factories in FY2015. And at Fuji Xerox, to prevent serious work accidents that requires absence from work, we will continuously boost greater risk awareness and heighten sensitivity to work accidents prevention through safety and health committee of each factory.
Hands-on Risk Seminars
42 43 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
Respect for Human Rights Outline of Activities in FY2014
We believe that respect for basic human rights is a funda-
mental aspect of our compliance and we have clearly stat-ed our commitment to it in the “Fujifilm Group’s Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct.” Group company employees are required to sign their names on a declaration found at the end of the Code of Conduct. At the same time, to deepen their understanding of human rights, we have training programs aimed at engendering respect for human rights and eliminating discrimination.
In consideration of due diligence in human rights, 
FUJIFILM Holdings has been participating in the Japan CSR Consortium, managed by the Caux Round Table Japan since 2012. We are studying on human rights risks within the company, in response to deliberations at international conferences and public comments. In the workshop held in FY2012, Fujifilm identified important human rights issues in the industry with other participants, in accordance with “identifying the human rights issues and expectations relevant to business” under the Human Rights Guidance Tool created by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI).
In FY2013, the important human rights issues in each 
business identified during the previous year were explored from the perspective of the value chain, to foster an understanding on what particular human rights issues are likely to be connected to the activities of each business division. In the third year FY2014, in response to the public comments in the previous year, we worked on the assessment of the potential connection between human rights issues and business choosing the 16 global risks that have a very close inter-relationship and highly likely to impact business, from among the 31 global risks that the World Economic Forum*
1 had been identified in the Global Risk 
Report. Through this, greater understanding was achieved concerning the reasons for the importance of human rights issues in each business and the deep connection between social issues and environmental issues.
Furthermore, in FY2014 Fujifilm continued to participate 
in the Conference on CSR and Risk Management*
2 for the 
second year to engage in discussions with various other corporate participants concerning CSR risks that business corporations must recognize in human rights due diligence. Discussions were made referring to existing management tools and based on case studies of business enterprises facing human rights risks in their supply chains.
In FY2014, Fujifilm has implemented annual self-
assessment questionnaire related to business activities for all Japanese and overseas affiliates, which has included items related to human rights issue and our future activities in the Group.
 
Future Prospects
For a greater understanding of human rights due diligence, Fujifilm will continue to actively adopt outside opinions and joint studies with other companies, in addition to our own opinions and continue our activities to raise awareness of the importance of human rights issues within the Group.
*1 World Economic Forum: Nonprofit foundation established in 1971 in 
Geneva, Switzerland. It is an international organization working on the 
improvement of the global situation in close cooperation with all major international organizations, as an independent and impartial body not tied to any special interests.
*2 Conference on CSR and Risk Management: Organized by the Caux 
Round Table – Japan and the UN Working Group on the Issue of Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises. This conference was the fourth workshop that the Global Corporate Community of Practice (GCOP) held around the world. GCOP is an intercompany global platform formed to develop and share best practices in human rights due diligence and risk management. Seventeen companies participate, including a think tank and others involved in chemicals, automotives, heavy industries, trading, information communications, printing, apparel and textiles, and logistics.Human rights issues  
considered important  
for the chemical industryConcrete issues
Core operation/Supply chain
Health and safety in the 
workplace●Risks of skin injuries and cancers posed by the 
use of chemical materials.
Community
Use of natural resources●Progressive increase in discharge and leak of 
hazardous materials, water and air pollution 
at manufacturing sites as well as during transportation.
Community
Voluntary relocation 
consultation and compensation●Inadequate compensation on relocation may 
create tensions with local communities when 
developing sites, which may endanger the safety of both corporate and community members.
Key human rights issues 
in pharmaceutical sector Concrete issues
Core operation/Supply chain
Labor conditions●The use of chemical compound or/and 
pharmaceutical products is likely to endanger the 
health and safety of employees.
●During the clinical development stage of 
pharmaceutical production, the health and 
safety of study participants may not be managed properly at contact research organizations.
Community
Use of natural resources●Sourcing natural compounds may possibly 
heighten tensions between companies and local 
communities.
Community
Community investment●Having positive impacts on public health such 
as rising awareness on diseases and ensuring 
access to medicine. 
Society and government
Relations with poor human 
rights record●Support for public health in state/local 
community may be misused for their political 
purposes such as propaganda
Consumer issues
Health and safety of patients●Taking positive actions towards the fight against 
counterfeit medicines
●Report delay on adverse drug reactions and delay in recall may endanger health and safety of 
patients.▼Key Human Rights Issues in the Chemical and Pharmaceutical SectorsFUJIFILM Global Leadership SeminarDevelop and Utilize Diverse Human ResourcesPriority
issue2
Build a working environment with diversity*1 that enable 
all workers*2 to exert their individuality
*1: Create systems to develop human resources and utilize them to the most suitable positions
*2: Domestic and foreign workers, and female, elderly, or disabled employeesTarget
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY
Training for 
overseas subsidiaries
FUJIFILM WAY
Global Regional1st GLS 2nd GLS 3rd GLS
Continuous measures
*GLS: Global Leadership Seminar    *RLS: Regional Leadership SeminarHold once a year4th GLS
FUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
management 
level in North 
America and 
ChinaFUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
directors in 
North America 
and China
FUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
management 
level in EuropeCompany-wide 
implementation in 
China/Asia Paciﬁc 
regionEurope and 
North America 
1st RLS
Start training for 
managers and 
general employees
Start training in Asia 
Paciﬁc regionHR training costs
in FY20142,655million
yenThe Fujifilm Group aims at realizing its corporate slogan “Value from Innovation” by challenging the dramatic 
changes occurring in the business environment with courage. Further, to accelerate the creation, development, and global expansion of prospective businesses listed in the Medium-Term Management Plan, VISION 2016, it is important to create an environment to develop the human resources to drive such acceleration and enable them to exert their diverse capabilities to the maximum. For these purposes, we are giving a top priority to developing global and executive talent with high level of skills in thinking and acting on their own in global society, and are actively reforming and expanding our businesses for the next generation. We are now implementing the systems to identify, develop, and promote human resources based on an international viewpoint across the Group.Basic Approach
Human Resources 
DevelopmentOutline of Activities in FY2014Related Data and Information Personnel and Labor Pages 61, 62
 Sustainability Accounting Page 69
Fujifilm
Fujifilm is working on human resources development strate-
gically in order to cultivate each employee’s strengths and characteristics and maximize their abilities. In such training, “strengthening the mind” and “strengthening work process-es” are particularly valued. For young employees in their first three years in the company, senior staff members play roles as mentors to support them to set their action targets to acquire self-reliant action skills and learning through ex-periences from repeatedly attaining their targets. For more experienced employees and managers, training is given to encourage their self improvement and enhance their abil-ity to complete projects by closely involving the others. In FY2014, a variety of training was held under the themes of “reinforcing key management talent,” “reinforcing careers,” “reinforcing young human resources,” “training for promotion candidates,” “functional reinforcement (R&D, production, sales, and staff),” “career design for female workers,” “diver -
sity management,” and “enhancing communication skills.” 
The efforts in cultivating global talent, which started 
full operations in FY2011, focus on scheduled training to develop global skills and mindsets, and creating oppor -
tunities for employees to work globally under the concept of “Development and use of talent regardless of nationali-ty or gender, etc.” Other training offers practical contents, including organized training for those employees appoint-ed to overseas positions, and overseas onsite training to learn from the actual experience in local workplaces. For employees of overseas subsidiaries, we are conducting the FUJIFILM Global Leadership Seminar for management level employees and other programs to disseminate the FUJIFILM WAY. The Regional Leadership Seminars, programs for re-gional management level employees, were provided in China in FY2014, in addition to North America and Europe. The FUJIFILM WAY training program was also offered in the Asia Pacific areas, and the trainings were conducted in the six countries of Germany, Netherland, the U.S., Brazil, China, and Singapore in FY2014.
 
Future Prospects
We continue establishing the system to identify, develop, and promote excellent talent worldwide in FY2015.
▼Fujifilm’s Training for Overseas Subsidiaries
With participants of the 2014 Conference on CSR and Risk Management
44 45 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
Great Expectation for Further Promotion 
on Work Style Innovation with Appropriate Target Setting and Acceleration on Expanding Global Measures
The Fujifilm Group lists “Effective Utilization and 
Training of Human Resources” as one of its priori-ty CSR issues. In concrete terms, they are actively promoting female employees to higher positions and reorganizing their employment system to suit the ag-ing society through the activities including Work Style Innovation. 
At the same time, I would like to point out two 
issues to be addressed in their CSR activities. One is that the company should establish a way to track the progress of its targets for the activities by setting appropriate KPIs. Disclosing this level of activity data is very advanced. This is why I would like the Fujifilm Group to push another step to announce their com-mitment and publish their future plans concerning how to connect their CSR activities to its corporate value utilizing these KPIs. 
The other point is that I would like the Group to 
accelerate their overseas CSR activities at the same speed as the global expansion of their business. For example, the Fujifilm Group is keen on its group-wide health management. I would like the Group to expand this activity to include their overseas subsidiaries. A global-scale health management should reduce sick leaves by employees, as well as the companies’ healthcare costs. I believe that this will produce a win-win result for both the business and its employees. 
Response to the third-party opinion
In order to continue to offer high value to customers in this 
fast-moving social environment. It is important to increase productivity by enabling our diverse employees to work happily and effectively utilizing their individual strengths. The Fujifilm Group has been reinforcing its human resource de-velopment system to empower each and every employee, and we appreciate your positive comment on our efforts. 
As you pointed out, we agree that it is important to vis-
ualize the progress of our activities to gain feedback to help us proceed even more effectively. We also plan to enhance our employees’ health and business growth from the global viewpoint as a new challenge. We are keeping our focus on human resource development so that diverse employees can continue their skills development to exert their profes-sionalism to the fullest extent, aiming to lead this towards solutions to various social issues. 
(Human Resources Division, FUJIFILM Holdings)OPINION
Mr. Mitsuo Ogawa
President
Craig Consulting
Profile
A specialist in organizational theory, Mr. Ogawa offers CSR consultations to create corporate value. His recent publications include, CSR—Increase Your Corporate Value— and Changes Brought by ISO26000 to Business (both published in Japanese by Nikkei Inc.). He is a member of the Human Resources Development Committee hosted by Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.
● Launch of training by all Fuji Xerox
● Construction of a change leader 
development system by all Fuji Xerox● Full launch by 
all Fuji Xerox2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Fuji Xerox ★
★
★Launch of training programs in each company for change leader development
Integrated 
all Fuji Xerox development Afﬁliates and sales 
companies in Japan
Afﬁliates and sales 
companies overseas (Asia & Oceania)
Diversity ensuring
costs in FY20141,088millionyen
Costs to create easy-to-
work environment
in FY20141,323millionyenFuji Xerox
The human resources that Fuji Xerox is seeking are those 
who can “think and act on their own” with the ability to adapt to changes and generate revolutions. To ensure that each employee can develop their competencies in a self-reliant, self-directed way and create careers in which they can sense their own growth, Fuji Xerox as a company implements a range of measures, including personnel training and edu-cation. Following on from the previous year, Fuji Xerox held problem solving training in FY2014 across the Company and domestic affiliated companies in order to foster a workplace climate conducive to resolving issues based on a consist-ently scientific approach. We also continued reform of the education systems for job type training (research, develop-ment, production, SE, CE, and sales) and rank-based train-ing (new graduates, young workers, leaders, and managers).
Fuji Xerox is also working on acquiring and educating 
human resources who can lead our business globalization to accelerate business expansion in the Asia Pacific market and beyond. Concretely, we employ and utilize human re-sources of many different nationalities, and provide programs to reinforce the global competence of the next generation of leaders. In FY2014, overseas job training was reinforced. Such changes included increasing the number of tempo-rary staff members in training, setting up long-term courses, expanding the conditions for domestic affiliate company em-ployees to apply for training programs, and accepting train-ees for overseas work training.
 
Future Prospects
In FY2015, we are focusing on reinforcement of management skills, problem solving skills to address business challenges, and global business skills in order to continue our efforts in developing human resources who contribute to Fuji Xerox’s sustainable growth.▼
Development of the Global Leaders and Change Leaders
Related Data and Information Personnel and Labor Pages 61, 62
 Sustainability Accounting Page 69Realization of Diverse 
Ways of WorkingOutline of Activities in FY2014
Fujifilm
We continue to engage in efforts to facilitate diverse ways 
of working. In 2007, we implemented the F-POWER Project aimed at creating an environment where female employees can demonstrate their maximum capabilities. Holding sem-inars and arranging a system for balancing work and child-care, we established a base to support female employees to participate actively. We enhanced the work-life balance support systems, including nursing care leave and family care leave in 2010, exceeding the legal requirements. Some measures were introduced to encourage the smooth return to the workplace for female workers who took childcare leave in 2013. One of them was the rule to ensure the principle that female workers would be able to return to their previous workplace after their childcare leave so that their career is not interrupted by their life event and continue to utilize their established experience and special skills. Other measures include online courses for employees on childcare leave to acquire knowledge and skills at home, and a special online program to provide the information necessary for returning to work. We also introduced a company re-entry system to enable employees with established careers and experience to return to the company after they had left the company for unavoidable circumstances.
In 2014 we promoted the Work Style Innovation cam-
paign across the company aiming to encourage diverse em-ployees to exert their abilities (see page 52), and held training on career design for female employees, as well as a diversity management training for the managers of female staff.
 
Future Prospects
We continue to offer human resources development, enhance work-life balance support systems, and foster a workplace culture where female staff can pursue long-term careers and develop themselves through their jobs, and work without worry of interruption from life events such as marriage, birth, and childcare, exerting their abilities to the maximum.
Career Design Seminar held mainly for female workers as a 
part of the Work Style Innovation campaign30(%)
0510152025
2012 2013 2014 (FY)26.424.8
2.8 2.8 2.7Overseas afﬁliated 
companies
Only Fuji Xerox
Domestic afﬁliated companies28.1
5.8 5.14.2* Re-calculated after 
excluding the number of managerial retirement for only Fuji Xerox
* Changed job rank 
classiﬁcation partially for manager level in FY2013 for overseas afﬁliated companiesFuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox aims to be a company where all can deliver their 
full potential regardless of gender, nationality, disability, or age. To realize this, the company adopts an employment strategy that values diversity and offers a flexible working style to enable such diverse human resources to exercise their skills to the optimum. 
We have been including the opinions of female 
employees in our systems to ensure a good work-life balance, and encouraging them to come back to work after marriage or childbirth since our foundation. As a result, this has become a company standard for employees to continue their work utilizing all available support schemes. In FY2014, the job return rate of female workers who took childcare leave reached 97.5%, and difference in the lengths of service between male and female employees became smaller showing 20.3 years for male and 16.0 years for female. Further, the total number of users taking fertility-treatment leave introduced in 2012 reached nine, showing that the employees are now actively using the innovative flexible working environment available to them. As for the promotion of female job advancement, we established a plan to boost the ratio of managerial positions held by women from 5.8% in FY2014 to 14.0% and are working actively to achieve this target (see page 51). Our efforts in FY2014 included selecting female advancement promotion officers from each of the domestic affiliate companies, sales companies, and Fuji Xerox Korea, where female participation in decision making (percentage of women managers) is insufficient, to accelerate female advancement across the Fuji Xerox Group. 
Fuji Xerox is also working hard on the employment 
of people with disabilities and the advancement of older employees.
 
Future Prospects
Fuji Xerox understands that the essence of achieving a good work-life balance is not only providing “support for employ-ees to fulfill both work and family life,” but also the “work style reforms” based on “productivity improvement across the en-tire organization through preparing resources to improve em-ployees’ morale and empower their ability to the maximum,” as well as the “realization of flexible working styles to sup-port the diverse values of each employee.” Founded on this understanding, we continue to reform employees’ mindsets and encourage new actions. 
▼Ratio of Women in Executive and Managerial Positions 
(Fuji Xerox and affiliated companies)Third-Party Opinion on “Develop and Utilize 
Diverse Human Resources”
46 47 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
Fuji Xerox’s CSR Management Guidelines for 
Suppliers and CSR Self-Check ListEnhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRPriority
issue3
(1)   Identify the CSR status of major suppliers and notify 
FH’s expectation and improvement requirements
(2)   Ensure compliance with legislation  
concerning biodiversity in procurementTargets Start Examination
in Response to
Conﬂict Minerals
2010Revision of
the Fujiﬁlm Group
Procurement
Policy
2015
The Fujifilm Group is implementing the Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy to ensure procurement from the view-
point of CSR based on a recognition of the importance of CSR and corporate ethics. 
The Group aims to achieve growth along with its suppliers through business activities, and to this end deals 
with suppliers in a fair and appropriate manner, while helping them deepen their understanding of the importance of promoting CSR activities across the supply chain. We are thus enhancing partnerships with our suppliers’ un-derstanding to fulfill our CSR.
 Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy   http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/procure.htmlBasic Approach
Enhancement of CSR 
Procurement ActivitiesOutline of Activities in FY2014
▼Progress in Procurement from the Viewpoint of CSR
FY2007-FY2008 FY2009-FY2010 FY2011-FY2012 FY2013-FY2014
FUJIFILM HoldingsFY2009
●   Establishment and 
announcement of Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy
●   Review of details of the 
survey on the greenness of companies●   Revision of the Fujifilm Group 
Procurement Policy
Fujifilm●   Survey on the situation of each 
procurement department, and launch of taskforce by relevant staff●   Awareness-raising about the 
Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy
●   Implementation of first pilot 
survey
●   Collection of replies to the 
survey, and tabulation, evaluation, and feedback of the results, and improvements/corrections (using PDCA)●   Implementation of second pilot 
survey●   Survey based on new web 
system and review of survey details
●   Expansion of survey targets
●   Establishment of internal 
guidelines to deal with the issue of conflict minerals
Fuji Xerox●   Launch of procurement 
activities from the viewpoint of CSR targeting major suppliers in Japan, China, and South Korea, starting with the procurement of materials
●   Start of visiting suppliers by a 
specialist team for procurement from the viewpoint of CSR, and expansion of survey targets to include transportation companies●   Launch of CSR seminars for 
senior executives of suppliers
●   Establishment of PDCA 
cycle in the field of material procurement at domestic and overseas suppliers and for working with transportation companies in Japan●   Establishment of Paper 
Procurement Regulation Standards
●   Start of visiting by those 
responsible for procurement to all supplier sites in China●   Expansion and enhancement 
of procurement measures from the viewpoint of CSR outside Japan (in China and transportation companies overseas)
●   Launch of procurement from 
the viewpoint of CSR in Vietnam
●   Launch of measures 
concerning the issue of conflict mineralsFollow-up and monitoring in 
line with the progress of the 
implementation processFujifilm Group
Reviewing the procurement activities conducted from view-
point of CSR since 2000, we revised the Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy strengthening in the point of CSR to re-spond the increasing social demand (see page 39). In addi-tion, we summarized the activities that we expect our sup-pliers to conduct from viewpoint of CSR in the “Requests to Suppliers” and disclosed the document to the public.requests for CSR audits from our customers and sincerely worked on the improvements according to the customers’ comments.
For suppliers, Fujifilm checked the CSR situations of 58 
suppliers to our major procurement division, who had kindly responded to the request for CSR self-check at the end of FY2013, and of other 59 companies in Japan and overseas who supply parts, materials, and OEM products to the di-vision of Fujifilm. Based on the results, we asked some of the suppliers to make improvements in their CSR activities. Fujifilm is thus enhancing management from the viewpoint of CSR across the supply chain through the communication with our Group companies, and suppliers.
 
Future Prospects
Fujifilm plans to introduce our Procurement Policy and other materials to our suppliers in Japan and overseas and ask them to perform CSR self-checks with new items added to encourage them to conduct CSR activities in line with the Policy.
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox is working to foster procurement from the view-point of CSR regarding not only production materials but also paper and transportation, in consideration of the envi-ronment, human rights and corporate ethics.
In FY2014, we continued reinforcing procurement from 
the viewpoint of CSR in the countries where our major pro-duction sites are based. We focused particularly on com-municating with the management of our business partners, and presented the Business Partner Top Seminar in Japan, China, and Vietnam. 
In the field of production materials, where we have been 
promoting the CSR approach since 2007, the effectiveness has been established particularly in China. At Fuji Xerox Shenzhen, assessment visits were conducted by a team of specialists, including procurement, HR management, gen-eral affairs, legal affairs, and CSR, in order to give advice on the performance level of the CSR activities of business partner in their workplaces. We have confirmed that such advice has now started to make a contribution to their stable business operations. To further this positive effect, Fuji Xerox Shenzhen has enhanced a structure of the specialist team to increase the number of visiting partners. 
In the field of logistics, we strengthened instructions to 
overseas business partners who showed low assessment scores in their self-check of the previous fiscal year. As a result of this reinforcement, the percentage of partners who indicated 90% or more matching ratio in the priority issues in the checklist now exceeded 90%, which is our target figure. Also, in the indirect materials field, we dispatched a specialist team to service providers that operate the Fuji Xerox sites. Finally, the FY2014 CSR performance in paper procurement was assessed in the meeting attended by the paper pro-curement and sales managers inside and outside Japan, and confirmed 100% compliance with paper procurement rules, as was achieved in the previous year.
 
Future Prospects
Demand for reinforcement from the viewpoint of CSR (par -
ticularly on human right issues) by NGOs and international or -
ganizations based in the U.S. and Europe is now increasing. Considering this global backdrop, we are reassessing the actual situation in our production sites in the aspects of en-vironment, human rights, labor, and corporate ethics, and are amending any problems identified. We also intend to in-crease opportunities for our business partners to learn from our CSR activities in the labor, environmental management, and HR development areas at production sites through CSR procurement. We build a robust supply chain by reinforcing CSR procurement based on the mutual trust with our busi-ness partners. Through CSR management at production sites and the CSR procurement approach applied to busi-ness partners, we will establish stable production and pro-curement that is firmly rooted in each production site.
Response to Conflict Minerals
Fujifilm has declared that it will not use any minerals mined or refined by illegal practices or take any part, directly or indirect-ly, in supporting such illegal activities. The company also par -
ticipates in the working group on Responsible Procurement of Minerals formed by JEITA*
1 to help the industry to resolve 
the issue of conflict minerals. 
Further, Fuji Xerox has clearly declared in the basic pol-
icy for procurement transactions that we are sincerely ad-dressing the issue of conflict minerals. Although Fuji Xerox is not registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we participate in the working group on Responsible Procurement of Minerals organized by JEITA and conduct surveys in order to cooperate with the survey conducted by customer companies which registers SEC, as well as clarifying the absence of any involvement of armed groups in our supply chain by investigating the origins of all the minerals used. In the FY2014 survey, the response rate to the questionnaire to our primary partners increased from the previous year to 92.4% and no involvement of any armed group was identified. 
 
Future Prospects
Also, in FY2015, based on the internal guidelines and through receiving support from suppliers, Fujifilm will con-tinue to work on obtaining information on conflict minerals and increase the information accuracy by using the conflict mineral reporting template provided by CFSI*
2 (former EICC/
GeSI template), enabling us to make more precise reports on the issue to customers.
Fuji Xerox will aim to improve the response rate and ac-
curacy of the survey in FY2015. 
*1 Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association 
(JEITA): This industry organization aims to foster the sound production, 
trade, and consumption of electronic devices and components, thereby contributing to economic development and cultural promotion in the country.
*2 
Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI): This international private sector or-ganization supports companies in addressing the issue of conflict minerals.Fujifilm
In FY2014, self-evaluations were undertaken at 35 affiliates 
in Japan and 61 overseas concerning human rights and la-bor management (prohibition of child labor and forced labor, working hours, wages, respect for the freedom of associa-tion and the right to bargain collectively), occupational health and safety, environmental preservation, and business ethics (information security and whistle-blowing and so on). Based on the results, Fujifilm checked the progress of CSR activities conducted by the Group as a whole. We also responded to 
48 49 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Fuji Xerox established a 
plan to boost the ratio of managerial positions held by women from 5.8% in FY2014 to 14.0% in FY2020 and is working 
actively to promote female job advancement. Our promotional measures included the Diversity Forum, designed to identify obstacles to female workers achieving advances in their jobs from the viewpoint of actual female workers in the frontline. The forum identified four issues: (1) working hours, (2) flexible working styles, (3) awareness among female workers, and (4) awareness in the work place, and formulated appropriate countermeasures for each issue. In FY2013, as countermeasures for obstacles Fuji Xerox works on several measures to 
promote female job advancementPriority  
Issue
2
(1) and (2), the entire company worked to implement a highly 
productive working method (maximizing the work results within the standard working hours), as well as home-working and remote-working systems. 
In FY2014, the Female Business Leader Advancement 
Promotion Program, a seminar for female candidates for execu-tive positions, was held to encourage them to advance into even higher job rank classifications and was attended by 35 man-agers. We have implemented the programs such as exchanges with roll models inside and outside of the company, development of mindset for senior management through mentors, and com-mitment of carrier planning. We will expand these programs to nominate female management candidates and offer educational programs for them. 推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.
Watashi-no
Shizenkansatsuro
competition
<Fuji/f_ilm>30For
by 2014years
<Fuji Xerox>Participate training
sessions for nature
guides until 2014400Approx.
employees
Conﬁrming level of own 
and others’ awareness and sharing perspectives on the issue
● Conducting a 
questionnaire within the 
Group  
● Holding study groups and 
dialogue with 
stakeholders, etc.FF: Fujiﬁlm   FX: Fuji Xerox
2005 to 2008
Clariﬁcation of the Fujiﬁlm Group’s stance and strategy
● Formulation and 
enactment of the Fujiﬁlm 
Group’s policy on biodiversity conservation
● Activities to enlighten and 
raise awareness among 
employees2008 to 2009
Launch of concrete measures
● Incorporation of 
“Biodiversity Conservation” 
into the Fujiﬁlm Group’s Design for Environment for all products (FF)
● Survey on land use for 
biodiversity conservation 
(FX)2010 to 2011
Formulation of targets for the next level
● Constructing measures to 
the Nagoya Protocol 
● Expanded procurement criteria for its paper 
supplier in an aim to conserve biodiversity (FX)2012 to 2014 Guidelines for Biodiversity  
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/creature.html
Rice Paddy Assistance Team, the Fujifilm Kyushu’s activities 
since FY2010Related Data and Information Environmental Aspects Page 65 Biodiversity 
ConservationOutline of Activities in FY2014
▼History of Biodiversity Conservation MeasuresMain activities for biodiversity conservation
• Activities to conserve the water source at each factory
• Co-sponsoring training courses for Nature Conservation Educators
Since FY2001, Fuji Xerox has been holding training courses 
jointly with the Nature Conservation Society of Japan, which have been attended by more than 400 employees in total.
• Support to the Monitoring Site 1000
We have been providing high sensitivity negative film for 
sensor cameras used in surveying mammals since 2007.
• Rice Paddy Assistance Team
Regional collaboration activities to preserve groundwater in 
Minami-Aso village. FUJIFILM Kyusyu has been participating in these activities since FY2010.
• Support to projects by NPOs and NGOs involved in 
education on biodiversity conservation for the next generation
Kikigaki Koshien , Watashi-no Shizenkansaturo  Competition, 
Kankyo Nikki , Midorino komichi  etc.
• Support to the Biodiversity Action Award Japan
We have been providing digital camera for the prize winners 
as “Fujifilm Award” through the Japan Committee for UNDB (United Nations Decade on Biodiversity) that host the Award.Since its foundation, the Fujifilm Group has engaged in a wide 
range of environmental protection activities for the conserva-tion and protection of biodiversity, based upon philosophy of “environmental consciousness and environmental protec-tion are at the core of our corporate activities,” as we have  needed lots of water and clean air to produce photographic films. In 2009, we clarified our guideline for cross-group ef-forts to biodiversity conservation and introduced the “Fujifilm Group Basic Concepts and Action Guidelines for Biodiversity Conservation” (hereafter, “Guidelines for Biodiversity”). Based on this policy, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox independently work on a number of biodiversity conservation activities related to their respective businesses. 
More concretely, Fujifilm included biodiversity conserva-
tion in the Rule for Design for Environment (DfE), while Fuji Xerox started surveys on land use for purpose of biodiversity conservation at production and product development sites. In 2012, we reviewed our biodiversity approach under the four key elements of factories, products, social contribution, and communication, in order to secure implementation of bi-odiversity conservation activities linked with our businesses. (See page 65.)
In FY2014, for the Nagoya Protocol on Access and 
Benefit Sharing for Genetic Resources (ABS), Fujifilm par -
ticipated in the Taskforce Committee led by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry in Japan to obtain the latest information on related topics.
At Fuji Xerox, where paper is an essential commodity, 
the Committee for Socially Responsible Paper Procurement  was held annually as it was last year, and reconfirmed the provision system for paper that customers can use with peace of mind. Fuji Xerox has also started the review for its overseas paper supplier audits.
 
Future Prospects
We will promote the construction of reliable measures for the domestic procedures toward the enforcement of Nagoya Protocol in Japan, and strengthen the management for pa-per procurement to our suppliers.Along with the Fujifilm Group’s global business expansion, more 
and more employees are making overseas business trips or be dispatched to emerging countries in Asia, South America, Middle East, and Africa. At the same time, a number of terrorist incidents targeting Japanese people have also occurred, and now we are facing the serious issue of how we can secure the safety of our employees working overseas. 
In order to reinforce safety risk management for overseas 
employees, we have clarified the roles of the Compliance and Risk Management Division, HR Division, and local subsidiaries in cases of emergency and their related communication routes. This allows us to act flexibly according to the type of incident. Based on public news, warnings from Ministry of Foreign Affairs and local consulates, we submit our own travel alerts for em-ployees in advance. If any incident that may cause some risk occurs, we keep on track with local safety information and give a high priority to securing the safety of Japanese employees—who may have a relatively low sense of risk—in such areas. 
Prior to appointment to overseas positions, we provide safe-
ty training to employees depending on the destination in order for them to learn the skills to “protect themselves through their own judgment,” as well as raising their safety awareness. We con -
tinue to reinforce employees’ response skills to emergencies by enhancing our action manuals and providing emergency drills. Overseas safety risk management 
reinforced by sharing public security information via communication networksPriority  
Issue
1
The decreasing productive population and increase in the costs 
of social security are becoming a social issue in Japan. Thus, maintaining and enhancing employees’ health are one of the most important issues for a corporation. 
The Fujifilm Group opened the Nishiazabu Medical Center in 
the Fujifilm Nishiazabu Headquarters in July 2014. The center is equipped with the company’s latest medical systems and equip-ment, including transnasal endoscopes, mammography equip-ment, and colonoscopes. Endoscopy can directly inspect the inside of the digestive system and take tissue samples if neces-sary. It is more accurate than an X-ray screening and is effective for the early identification of cancer in the stomach, esophagus, and colon. The transnasal endoscopes that Fujifilm has de-veloped minimize the discomfort of examinees compared to oral endoscopy. The highest cause of death among the Japanese is cancer and it is very important to identify it in its early stage Nishiazabu Medical Center opened for 
employees’ health enhancement and  cancer screening
Fujifilm’s latest medical systems are installed, including endoscopy systems, mammogra-
phy equipment, and an ultrasound diagnosis system.Priority  
Issue
1
for effective treatment. The opening of this medical center of-
fers an easy-to-access opportunity for employees who require endoscopic examinations, contributing to increasing the cancer discovery rate and early treatment. 
The center is equipped not only with endoscopic systems 
but also with our cutting-edge medical systems, and also func-tions as a show room. 
50 51 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015推進方針1事業を通じた社会課題の解決FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
事業プロセスにおける環境 ・ 社会への配慮製品・サービスなどを通じて、 環境、
人々の健康・生活・働き方に関する
社会課題の解決に貢献環  境健  康 生  活
働き方1. 地球温暖化への対応
2. 水問題への対応3. エネルギー問題への対応1. 医療サービスへのアクセス向上2. 疾病の早期発見への貢献
3. アンメッ トメディカルニーズへの対応4. 健康増進、 美への貢献 1. 安全、 安心な社会づくりへの貢献2. 心の豊かさ、 人々のつながりへの貢献
1. 情報の壁を越える
 コミュニケーションの促進
2. ダイバーシティーの促進
1. 地球温暖化対策の推進2. 資源循環の促進3. 製品 ・ 化学物質の安全確保1. グローバルなコンプライアンス意識の向上と
 リスクマ ネジメントの 徹 底
2. 多様な人材の育成と活用3. CSR視点でのバリ ューチェーン ・
 マ ネジメントの 強 化推進方針3
企業活動を支える
CSR基盤を
バリューチェーン全体にわたり強化推進方針2
生産活動などの
事業プロセスにおける
環境課題への積極的な取組みを推進FUJIFILM  Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Promotion policy 3Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities 
across the value chain.Other CSR Activities
(1) Working style innovation
(2) Skill exertion of diverse employees
(3) Enhancement of support systems● Regularly hosted discussions and seminars for those in leading positions to 
reinforce their team management skills.
● Hosted facilitation seminars to make meetings more efﬁcient.
● Hosted a Google Festa to promote usage of Google Apps, the company’s shared software, from the viewpoint of IT tool utilization in business.
● For the purpose of increasing productivity and controlling long hour working, increased the no-overtime day from one day per week to two days.
● Hosted lectures by experts on topics concerning working style reforms and business management involving female employees.
● Hosted a seminar for employees in their 10th year in the company to identify their strengths and plan their future contribution areas.
● Hosted Career Design Seminar for female workers as their ﬁfth-year career training program. Also, hosted a Diversity Management Seminar for supervisors of such female staff.
● Conducted trials of home working system (introduced in Summer 2015)
● Increase of nursing care consultation hotlines
● Conducted questionnaire on nursing care
Group companies 
SubsidiariesStandardized globally
Mesa, U.S.Rhode Island, U.S. 
Tokyo, JapanBelgium 
Korea
Suzhou, China
Hong Kong
SingaporeTaiwanShizuoka, JapanIt is said that the product-
ive population in Japan will be halved due to ag-ing, the low birth rate, and the overall population de-
crease. For a Japanese company to maintain and reinforce its competitiveness against this severe backdrop, it is important to create an environment where people eager to work can exert their strength dynamically—regardless of their gender or age. To become a company that promotes each employee’s potential, Fujifilm started the company-wide Work Style Innovation cam-paign to create a corporate culture in which diverse employees can develop their own strengths and produce results through efficient ways of working. 
Concretely, we continuously act on the following three prin-
ciples: (1) Working style innovation (individual employees make their own arrangements to increase their productivity and results per hour); (2) Skill exertion of diverse employees (utilize employ-ees’ strengths in their work regardless of gender or age); and (3) Enhancement of support systems (to enable flexible ways of The Work Style Innovation campaign to 
become a corporation where diverse employees work to the fullest extentPriority  
Issue
2
working in order to support their child care or caring other family 
members). We aim to create a synergy effect through fully utiliz-ing these three principles.
In recent years, a responsible supply chain management has been regarded as an important part of CSR activities. Particularly in the electronics industry, the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct* is becoming an international standard of supply chain management.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Co., Ltd. (FFEM) operates 
businesses related to semiconductor manufacturing processes across the world. The company has manufacturing and sales networks in Japan and other Asian countries as well as in the U.S. and Europe. This means that over the last several years the company has received an increasing number of audit requests, particularly from customers outside Japan. Such audit requests are mainly document-based and sets of self assessment ques-tionnaires are used as tools. Some tools are not compatible with the EICC auditing tool, and there have been cases consisting of nearly 700 questions. We struggled to respond to these audits, especially in the early stage, as we could not understand the purpose of some of the questions due to the different employ-ment practices and labor systems inherent in a Japanese cor -
poration, which do not necessarily match with global standards. Now, however, we have gained a better understanding of such audit questionnaires after experiencing numerous audits, and this has helped us to improve the audit response procedure and reduce the burden of such auditing. In FY2014, we managed seven onsite audits (six overseas and one domestic) and 66 document audits concerning product/service quality and CSR . 
FFEM is a supplier, and at the same time, the company is in 
a position of its supply chain management, which is an important EICC audit item. FFEM has over 120 domestic material suppliers 
▼FFEM’s Global Supplier ManagementFUJIFILM Electronic Materials (FFEM) advancing 
procurement from the viewpoint of CSR in electronics equipment and material industryPriority  
Issue
3
that are subject to auditing. In FY2014, FFEM standardized its 
supplier auditing tool from varied tools among different manu-facturing sites, and 15 onsite audits were undertaken using the tool. The standardized auditing tool reduces the audit response burden on suppliers, and enables more efficient auditing. For example, the onsite audit of an overseas supplier can now be managed by our overseas group companies.
We plan to share the know-how and information acquired 
by FFEM across the Fujifilm Group in order to achieve procure-ment activities from the view point of CSR that take account of both suppliers and customers. 
* EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct: A set of 
standards to ensure that the labor environment in the global electronics sup-ply chain is safe; workers in the chain are treated with respect and dignity; and that businesses within the chain operate with proper environmental re-sponsibility and corporate ethics.
Three pillars of Work Style Innovation
Working style innovation
Each one of us tries to develop ways to increase 
productivity and results per hour!
Working style 
innovationEnhancement of support systems
Company supports flexible ways 
of working for child rearing or family member care!
Enhancement 
of support 
systemsSkill exertion of diverse employees
Utilize your strength 
in work regardless of gender or age!
Skill exertion 
of diverse 
employees
Aiming at being a company where diverse employees can  
demonstrate their skills, build their strengths, and reform our company 
culture for better productivity based upon efficient ways of working.
Pink Ribbon Movement spreads all over the world. 
(Photo: Campaign in the US)
● Social contribution through 
business operations
● Support for the education of the next generation
● Environmental conservation and biodiversity conservation
・ NGOs/NPOs   ・ Charity organizations   ・ Local communities
・ Educational institutions   ・ Public organization   ・ Employee/family● Research and education
● Culture, arts and sports
● Health
● Environmental conservationThemes (targets) Major ﬁelds
Cooperation and collaboration Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy 
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/society.htmlSocial Contribution Activities
The Fujifilm Group is committed sincerely to contributing to the sus-
tainable development of society in aspects of working together with local communities as a good corporate citizen and responding sin-cerely to the demands and expectations of those communities. In 2008 we formulated the Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy, based on which we are conducting activities focusing on the fields of research and education, culture, arts and sports, health and environmental con-servation through cooperation and collaboration with NGOs/NPOs, lo-cal communities and others and in active support of volunteer activi-ties conducted by employees.Basic Approach
The Fujifilm Group contributes to society through its busi-
ness operations while interacting proactively with local com-munities as a corporate citizen, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of society. In addition to distinctive activities utilizing the unique characteristics of the Group, such as creation of archives of cultural assets and artistic works (record storage), education aid in emerging nations, restoration of historical manuscripts and production support in publishing of large-font textbooks, we continuously im-plemented various activities in an environmental and other education assistance and in promoting coexistence with lo-cal communities. There are workshops for children to learn Outline of Activities in FY2014
the pleasures of taking photo and photography, Pink Ribbon Movement to raise awareness of the importance of early de-tection, diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer and others being organized in Asia, Europe, the United States and other parts of the world.
Moreover, internal schemes have been developed, such 
as volunteer leave, to create an environment and systems for raising the volunteer spirit among each and every employee.
We also continued these activities in FY2014. In 
addition, Fuji Xerox began providing educational materials in the Philippines to help correct disparities in child education in emerging countries. We will expand this activity to the Asia-Pacific region, including Myanmar, aiming to distribute educational materials to a total of 100,000 children over 10 years (see page 54). Also, to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Fujifilm Group held the Marche for Tohoku Recovery (see page 55) to encourage the revival of Tohoku, the Tono Mirai Zukuri College (see pages 22, 55), and other innovative activities. We will continue to conduct activities to contribute to solve social issues through our business operations, attributing importance to communications and partnerships with a range of our stakeholders.Education for future generations 3
Harmony with the local community 62Promote culture and the arts in society 
(in Japan) 813
Consideration for the international community and international cultures 8
Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs 19
Total 905Cost for social
contribution
activities*(million yen)
9Approx.hundred
million yen
* Cost for future generations, 
communities, international communities, and NPOs and NGOsSocial contribution through
business operations
Support for the education of
the future generation
Environmental conservation
and biodiversity conservationConnecting Photo Project (Fujiﬁlm)
Creating digital archives of cultural assets (Fujiﬁlm)“PHOTO IS”—30,000 person Photo Exhibition (Fujiﬁlm)Album Café (Fujiﬁlm)Restoring Ancient Manuscripts (Fuji Xerox)Pink Ribbon Campaign (Fujiﬁlm)
Photo class for young people (Fujiﬁlm)
Support for the publication of large-font textbooks 
(Fuji Xerox)
Support for the education in emerging countries  
(Fuji Xerox)
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Setsutaro Kobayashi 
Memorial Fund (Fuji Xerox)
Fuji Xerox Print Collection (Fuji Xerox)Special Olympics (Fuji Xerox)
Kikigaki Koshien  (Fujiﬁlm)
Midori-no-komichi Kankyo Nikki  (environmental diary) 
(Fujiﬁlm)“Kids’ ISO 14000” program (Fuji Xerox)
Charitable Trust Fujiﬁlm Green Fund (Fujiﬁlm)
Minamiaso Suiden Otasuke-tai  (planting rice project) 
(Fujiﬁlm)
Volunteer tree planting activity in China (Fujiﬁlm’s 
labor union)
Training sessions for nature guides (Fuji Xerox)▼Social Contribution Activities Continued by the Fujifilm Group
▼Social Contribution Activities Continued by the Fujifilm Group
52 53 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Other CSR Activities
Germany
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]
Support in activities to record 
testimonies on historic tragedies for the future
FUJIFILM Recording Media Germany GmbH sup-
ports the activities of Gedachtnis der Nation, a German organization recording testimonies of historic tragedies in Germany and other European nations. The company provides LTO tapes on a continuing basis and without charge as recording media for the valuable interviews with survivors.
Starting education for 
future generations through industrial & academic sector collaboration utilizing business activities
In partnership with Seoul Technical High 
School, the only high school in South Korea with a Graphic Arts Course, Fuji Xerox Korea Co., Ltd. has become involved in educating young people through its production ser -
vice business. The company is involved in the joint development and implementation of educational programs and has donated dig-ital printers for this purpose. 26 members of students and the persons concerned from the school visited some sites including Fuji Xerox’s Customer Co-Creation Laboratory in Japan.Korea
[Research and Education]
Joint efforts of Chinese and 
japanese staff in tree planting in Chinese deserts
Fujifilm Labor Union first started greening 
activities in the Horqin Desert of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China in 1998. Employees of Fujifilm (China) Investment Co., Ltd., along with those from affiliated com-panies and sales agencies in China joined the activity in 2006 and now more people are in-volved. Both Chinese and Japanese staff put upon full efforts to this greening activity. China
[Environmental Conservation]
Donation of portable diagnostic 
ultrasound system for improved medical care in Africa
FUJIFILM SonoSite, Inc., donates portable di-
agnostic ultrasound systems to the nonprofit organization PURE for its diagnostic ultra-sound training program in Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, and other African nations. The photo shows Dr. Henwood of PURE, engaged in training at a Liberian Ebola treatment unit.Liberia
[Health]
Workshop for developing the 
talents of autistic children through photography
FUJIFILM (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. is participating 
in workshops for the “Through the Eyes of the Autistic” project aimed at uncovering and nur -
turing the latent talents and creativity of autistic children through photography. The company provided instructions on basic photography and on outdoor photography, as well as photo exhibitions.Malaysia
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]
Educational material supply 
project aimed at supporting the correction of the education gap for children in impoverished regions
Fuji Xerox started an educational material 
supply program aimed at supporting the cor -
rection of the education gap for children in emerging nations in 2014, beginning with the Philippines. In June 2015, teaching materials were provided in Myanmar. Support is expect-ed to continue for 100,000 schoolchildren in the countries of the Asia-Pacific by 2023, maximizing the effect in corporation with other companies and NGOs.Philippines and Myanmar
[Research and Education]
Education on “what it means 
to work” through cooperation with government authorities, schools and local businesses
Fuji Xerox Osaka is involved in a program to 
educate young people through examining “what it means to work,” in cooperation with Nishinari Ward Office, local elementary schools and customers. In fiscal 2014, children from Koji Elementary School took part in a project to create articles with strips of real leather, in cooperation with a leading shoe manufacturer.Japan
[Research and Education]
U.S.A.
[Health]
Assistance in the “Special 
Olympics” for the intellectually challenged
Tennis club members of TOYAMA CHEMICAL 
Co., Ltd., are supporting the activities of the international sports organization, “Special Olympics,” which provides venues for per -
sons with intellectual disabilities to experience various training programs in sports and to demonstrate the result of their efforts, as well as presenting tennis as an enjoyable sport for everyone.Japan
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]
Addressing regional community 
issues through the “Tono Mirai Zukuri College,” created as part of disaster recovery support activities
Fuji Xerox has organized various support ac-tivities in cooperation with the city of Tono, providing lateral support to areas struck by the Great East Japan Earthquake. One ex-ample, the “Tono Mirai Zukuri College,” was opened in April 2014 through a collaboration with Tono City. The college is involved with the development and management of pro-grams that study the future of local commu-nities (see page 22 for details).
In FY2014, various programs were un-
dertaken, such as the “Research Program on Emergency Logistical Support Bases” (photo at top) and the “Joint Future Creation Program” (photo at bottom), in an effort to resolve the issues faced by local communi-ties and to co-create value through cooper -
ation between the industrial, academic, and governmental sectors.
●Activities to Support Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake
Marché for Tohoku Recovery supports disaster-struck areas through merchandise sales
The Marché (market) for Disaster Recovery is organized as a part of support activities for disaster areas, through the presentation and sale of local merchandise at company offic-es in Japan. It was originally started by the Fuji Xerox CSR Division in cooperation with the Ishinomaki Market Expansion Support Center, aimed at expanding markets and boosting sales for business enterprises that have lost sales channels through the earth-quake and tsunami disaster.
In FY2014, this support was expanded 
beyond Ishinomaki to include Tohoku as a whole, through partnerships with seven or -
ganizations in the three Tohoku prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima.
The market was also opened at the Tokyo 
Midtown head offices jointly by FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm, and Fuji Xerox. As a sup-port program in which employees can easily participate, there are plans for the markets to be held in many more business offices in the future.Support for military veterans transitioning back into civilian life, as sponsor of Warrior Hike and its “Walk Off the War” program
The Fujifilm Group companies in the US spon-
sor Warrior Hike, a non-profit organization and its “Walk Off the War” program support-ing combat veterans transitioning from their military service back into civilian life by hiking America’s National Scenic Trails. As sponsor, the companies provide digital cameras, and employees also make donations.
Japan
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]
Japan’s largest participative 
photo exhibition held for the 10th year in 2015
Fujifilm’s “PHOTO IS,” a 30,000 person Photo 
Exhibition held with the scale being expanded since 2006, is a participation-based exhibition to present the thoughts and emotions of the participants through their photos. The number of entries for the past nine exhibitions totaled 157,762, and the total number of visitors to the exhibitions, held at 29 sites aroud Japan in 2015, is approaching 2.91 million.
This photo exhibition was authorized as one 
of the corporate mécénat activities in “This is MECENAT 2014” by the Association for Corporate Support of the Arts.
54 55 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Other CSR Activities
Conduct every year
Customer Satisfaction
Questionnaire
Survey
<Fuji/f_ilm><Fuji Xerox>Color Copier Customer
Satisfaction StudySM and
Color Printer Customer
Satisfaction StudySMHighest for the ﬁve
consecutive years
* J.D. Power Asia Paciﬁc 
Japan Color Copier Customer 
Satisfaction StudySM and 
Japan Color Printer Customer Satisfaction Study
SMASTALIFT GINZA reopened after renovation in February 
2015Basic Approach
Fujifilm
Since Fujifilm deploys its businesses in a wide range of fields, 
it has a wide variety of customers, from companies and hos-pitals to regular consumers, and it responds to their views according to the special characteristics of each product respectively. Each customer center reports our customers’ proposals and requests to the respective product depart-ments, and they appraise the contents and consider them in the development and planning of new products and in im-provements to existing products and services.* Fujifilm also conducts a CS survey targeting customers who made in-quiries to the Customers Communication Center, Net Print Service Support Center, and FinePix Support Center, and in the survey conducted in FY2014 received about 1,300 re-plies. The company will make serious efforts to resolve the problems identified through the survey. 
In FY2014, Fujifilm relocated its Tokyo Service Station 
from Ikebukuro to Roppongi as a part of enhancements to the service (page 58), and also relocated ASTALIFT Ginza, the flagship store for its skincare series, ASTALIFT. The fresh-ly reopened store provides customers with a new counseling service based on a 3-D skin image diagnosis system to meet more customer needs. Fujifilm is thus improving direct con-tact points with customers to communicate with them more deeply.
*    Efforts on usability 
http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/design/
healthcare.html
Fuji Xerox
At Fuji Xerox, we believe that customer satisfaction (CS) is 
fundamental to all our corporate activities. It is important to know the demands and expectations of customers in order to enhance customer satisfaction. For this reason, we place emphasis on creating opportunities and points for commu-nication with customers, and centrally manage the direct opinions of customers through the iVOC system, which col-lects, analyzes, and stores communications from customers (All VOC) provided through the following five sources: (1) the Products and Services which Reflect Our 
Customers’ Views
As we declare in our corporate philosophy, the Fujifilm Group aims to 
provide the best quality products and services which are safe, appeal-ing to customers and provide them with peace of mind, by basing our management on “Customer Satisfaction (CS).” In order to achieve cus-tomer satisfaction, it is important to obtain the views of a wide range of customers and to have a mechanism in place for effectively reflecting these in our products and services. For this purpose, we pay special attention to communicating with our customers at customer centers which are our point of contact with them. We aim to correctly grasp their views, as well as seek to respond in a speedy, kind, accurate and fair manner, and we are constructing a system to link these views to improvements in product development and our work processes.
Efforts to Raise Customer 
Satisfaction (CS)Outline of Activities in FY2014
integrated customer support center (the main contact point 
for customers); (2) the Voice of Customer (VOC) collection system; (3) official website; (4) various market researches; and (5) the CS programs to make improvements based on the CS survey results. Fuji Xerox also collects customer opin-ions through the Customer Co-creation Laboratory, which provides the company with many opportunities to listen to the opinions of customers’ executives on their management challenges. Furthermore, within the company, we have or -
ganized a 3-layer CS system comprising ‘CS improvement committee,’ ‘CS Improvement at Customer Contact Points Committee and the Quality Review Committee’ and ‘CS Executive Meeting,’ to promote our CS activities and incor -
porates the opinions of customers in the design of products and services and in marketing activities.
In FY2014, Fuji Xerox machine-translated overseas’ 
CS information stored in the iVOC system into Japanese to help the marketing and development departments in Japan deepen their understanding of the needs and requests of their overseas customers, while increasing the convenience of the system by making it possible to search for both do-mestic and overseas data regardless of the date of creation. In addition, as a result of making a concerted effort across the company to earn even greater trust from customers, the company received high evaluations from major external rat-ing organizations.▼System for Responding to Customers (FUJIFILM Corporation and its domestic affiliates)
ISO 10002 (International Standard for Complaints Handling Management System)
Back to “Customers’ opinions”Customers’
opinionsConsiderationReﬂecting
customers’ opinionsConsultation facility (only B to C)
Requests
Proposals
Remarks
OrdersTop
management
Improving
products and
services
Adopting new
products and
servicesDivision
heads
Consideration
by relevant
divisionsMarketing
and sales
Design
R&D  
 Service Station Three in Japan: Around 20  staffCall Center for the Healthcare 
Laboratory Around 100  staff
Around 10  staffCustomers Communication CenterAround 10  staff
Domestic marketing divisions, Domestic sales companiesFUJIFILM SQUARETechnical Support Center
Around 40  staff(FINEPIX Support Center, FDi Support 
Center, FUJIFILM Mall Support Desk)
Number of
customer inquiries:
Around
330  thousand
inquiries per yearInteractive
communicationReports Feedback 
Letters, telephone calls,
e-mails, company visits,
and in retail outletsInquiries
Each consultation facility manages information 
such as comments and inquiries in a database
▼Mechanisms for Communicating with Customers (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
Top management’s CS activities
Decisions on companywide policies and methods for resolving important issues
by the Senior Vice President-chaired CS Executive Meeting, etc.Customers (ALL VOC)
Integrated customer support center
Customer Information Center 
(general contact)
Customer Contact Center
(Machine maintenance/Consumables)*Approx. 25 thousand cases
Approx. 4 million casesEmployees of Fuji Xerox and its afﬁliates
who interface with customers
VOC (Voice of Customer)
Mechanism for comprehensively collecting 
information from customers
*In FY2013, promoting multiple reception system for maintenance and consumables, the both numbers were combined.Market
researches
Appropriately
conducted
CS programs
Fuji Xerox Users 
CS Surveys
Benchmarking 
CS SurveysApprox. 92 thousand cases
Approx. 19.9  thousand casesOfficial
website
CS improvement activities by each core group
Elimination of all complaints and claims, improvement of operating processes based on
opinions and requests strengthening of product planning ability, etc.Strengthening of relationships with individual customers, elimination of all complaints and claims,
improvement of operating processes based on opinions and requests, etc.CS improvement activities at customer contact points(complaints, claims, requests, inquiries, etc.)Daily customer communication Changes in the environment surrounding
customers, economic trends, etc.Customer evaluation
Approx. 216  thousand cases
PDCA
▼Fuji Xerox’s CS Program (Improvement activities based on the CS surveys)
Complementary relationsThe Two CS ProgramsObjectives for the Use
of Survey Results
●A●C
●C●P
●A●P●D
●DCompetitive Benchmarking Program
Fuji Xerox Users CS ProgramCompany-wide improvement
activities as well as activities
by each site and function
Customers1) Competitive Benchmarking Survey
2) Fuji Xerox Users CS SurveyActivities linked to grasp the CS market position, 
enhance our strengths, and improve on our weaknesses.
Promote improvements based on customer 
evaluations and enhance relationships with individual customers.CS improvement activities 
extracted from issues
when compared with 
competitive companies
CS improvement 
activities based on 
individual customer 
evaluations▼FY2014 External Appraisals (Fuji Xerox)
The document equipment service provider segment of the 2014 Japan IT Solution Provider Customer Satisfaction Study
SM
The 2014 Japan Color Copier Customer Satisfaction Study
SM and the 2014 Japan 
Color Printer Customer Satisfaction Study
SMHighest for
the ﬁve
consecutive
yearsHighest for
the three
consecutive
yearsJ.D. Power Asia Paciﬁc
The IT Consulting/Upstream Design Services category of Customer Satisfaction Survey 2014-2015
 (August 21, 2014 issue)Top rankingNikkei Computer▼Customer Satisfaction Questionnaire Survey Results (based on telephone & written questionnaires*)▼Customer Satisfaction Questionnaire Survey Results (based on email questionnaires*)
(Customer Satisfaction Index) (Customer Satisfaction Index) 0102030405060708090100 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
2013
20142013
2014* Total for Customer Communication Center, Net Printing Service Support Center & 
FinePix Support Center
* Please refer to website for details on the method of calculating customer 
satisfaction, etc. * Customer Communication Center* Please refer to website for details on the method used to calculate 
customer satisfaction, etc.1. Telephone inquiry handling
2. Assistance with returning defective goods
3. Number of days for written documents to arrive
4. Ease in understanding the response
5. Willingness to use Fuji/f_ilm products 
in the future
6. Willingness to recommend to friends and acquaintances1. Speed of response
2. Ease in understanding the response
3. Readability of response layout
4. Willingness to use Fuji/f_ilm products 
    in the future
5. Willingness to recommend to     friends and acquaintances
56 57 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Data and
InformationOther CSR Activities
Fujifilm
In order to provide easier products to the customers, the 
Usability Design Group which is responsible for product de-sign has been assessing products based on their usability, from the perspective of “ease of use” since 2001. As well as selecting multiple assessments by users based on consider -
ation of the target and intended usage, etc. of the product, this group also conducts verification, etc. in the workplace of use. In cases of products which we plan to deploy globally, we conduct verification by country based on the differences in culture and environment, etc. and use the results of this analysis in product design. In 2014 too, we conducted usa-bility evaluation centered on medical systems, such as X-ray diagnostic imaging systems, etc. We intend to continue to pursue “ease-of-use” for customers and are proceeding with product development.Manufacturing Which Responds to the 
Needs to a Wide Variety of CustomersOutline of Activities in FY2014
Fuji Xerox
For us, “accessibility” refers to putting something that cannot 
be used in a state so that it can be used, while “usability” refers to making a part that is difficult to use more usable. We think of expanding the target customers to enable “user di-versity” as being “universal design,” and we are currently de-veloping products that aim to enable “anyone and everyone to use them by themselves.” For example, when copying, it is important that a customer can conduct a series of operations such as authentication, setting the manuscript to be cop-ied, selecting functions, output, and replacement of paper. If someone is unable to do even just one of these, they will have to give up or ask someone else for help. In developing our products, we have collected information from listening to and visiting customers, etc. We design, develop and con-duct evaluations in operability testing of products based on various internal guidelines that reflect or are in collaboration with JIS or the ISO, and enabling designers to experience for themselves simulations of operating a product from a wheel-chair or with poor eyesight.
Upper: The Open 
Innovation Hub opened in the U.S.A.Lower: The Chicago Technology Center introducing innovative products and solutionsThe Fujifilm Tokyo Service Station meets customer needs in 
both of before and after purchasing digital camera products.Stakeholder Communication
In response to the opinion of customers, “far from the station,” we moved the 
Fujifilm Tokyo Service Station operated in Ikebukuro to the second floor of the Fujifilm head office building located in Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi). On the first floor of the building is the FUJIFILM SQUARE, which comprises the Photo History Museum, a photo salon, and a “hands-on” space where visitors can experience the company’s latest products. We provide customers with a wide range of services at this facility.
In the relocated Tokyo Service Station, we provide customers with repair/
maintenance services, consulting services, seminars on how to use our prod-ucts, and a rental service for camera bodies and lenses. More than 1,000 people visit the place each month. In particular the rental service is very popular as it provides customers with the opportunity to use high-end lenses on a trial basis, and some users who enjoyed the service have later purchased the lenses they tried. The Service Station is thus helping us find new customer needs and in-crease their satisfaction.
In January 2014, Fujifilm opened the Open Innovation Hub in its head office building in Tokyo, where visitors can gain hands-on experience for a range of products and research themes of the Fujifilm Group. We use this facility as an interactive communication forum to identify the various types of problems faced by our stakeholders and to understand their ideas for the application of our technologies to meet their needs. In April 2015 we opened a similar facility in Santa Clara, California, located in the center of Silicon Valley, which is beginning to function as a hub for creating new businesses and partnerships.
In October 2014, FUJIFILM North America Corporation substantially refur -
bished its Chicago Technology Center located in Hanover Park, Illinois, where innovative products and solutions in the field of printing are presented to visitors to foster communications with customers.
Fostering stakeholder communication in the United 
StatesData and Information chiefly presents fundamental data on the 
Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities and quantitative data in the areas of personnel and general affairs, the environment, and so forth, pro -
moting an objective and concrete understanding of our activities.
Compliance and Risk Management  .................................................................... 60
Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation) ..................................................... 61Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) ......................................................................... 62Environmental Aspects  ........................................................................................ 63 Priority Targets  ................................................................................................ 63 Anti-Global Warming Measures  ....................................................................... 64 Energy-Saving Measures  ................................................................................. 64 Environment Conscious in Logistics  ................................................................ 64 Conserving Resources Measures  .................................................................... 65 Activities on Biodiversity Conservation  ............................................................. 65 Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions  ..................................................... 66 Pollution Prevention Measures  ........................................................................ 66 Legal Compliance Measures  ........................................................................... 66Domestic and International Appraisals ................................................................ 67Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and  
Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)  ...................................... 68 Consulting services by our special 
staff (free of charge), and delivering guidebooks made by the staff
58 59 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 59 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Data and Information
Compliance and Risk Management Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Intended audience (Fuji Xerox and its affiliated companies) Details 2014 results
All managerial staffImportance of Labor Management for business (Web-based training to 
disseminate the importance of Labor Management that is the foundation of business management)Once, 5,600 participants
All executive officers and employeesTraining on general legal knowledge (Web-based training for fraud/harassment as well as basic legal knowledge )Once, 24,073 participants
All employees (including contract/temporary employees)Risk Management Training (Web-based training on risk management including information security)Once, 30,000 participants
New executive officersNew executive officer training (Group training on general risk management for executives including directors’ management duties and responsibilities, corporate laws, and risk concerning general affairs, human resources, etc.)Once, 18 participants
New managerial staffNew managerial staff training (Group training such as lectures about disciplinary action and group discussions using examples to obtain general compliance knowledge that managerial staff should know)5 times, 338 participants
New employeesNew employee training (Group training for legal compliance that maintain the Basic Corporate Quality by understanding the basic CSR policies and activities)Once, 437 participants■Compliance education (Fuji Xerox in Japan)Compliance
Intended audience Details 2014 results
Executive officers (Fujifilm and its affiliates) Overall compliance (by external instructors) Once, 80 participants
Managerial personnel (Fujifilm and its affiliates)Examples of corporate misconduct, punitive actions, consulting facility,  risk reporting system, etc. (by CP & RM*)70 times, 3,300 participants
New managerial personnel (Fujifilm and its affiliates) Overall compliance (Discussions based on case studies) 7 times, 175 participants
All employees (Fujifilm and its affiliates, including agency contracted employees)Discussions based on compliance case studies (by managerial personnel) All divisions
New employees (Fujifilm)Basic knowledge of compliance, employee code of conduct, corporate rule, consulting facility, etc. (by CP & RM
*)Once, 70 participants■Compliance education (Fujifilm in Japan)
*CP & RM: Compliance & Risk Management Division of FUJIFILM Corporation
Risk Management
Certification Certified affiliates
P-Mark*1FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Techno Service Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Learning Institute Inc.FUJIFILM Imaging Protec Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Media Crest Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Service Link Co., Ltd.Certification Certified affiliates
ISMS*2FUJIFILM Global Graphic Systems  
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Software Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Imaging Systems Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Imaging Protec Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Business Expert CorporationFuji Xerox Co., Ltd.  
(Global Service Sales)
Fuji Xerox domestic sales representative and 
sales companies
Fuji Xerox InterField Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Information Systems Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Prefectural Dealers  
11 companies (12 offices)
Fuji Xerox of Shanghai LimitedFuji Xerox Korea Company LimitedFuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.Fuji Xerox Service Creative Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Eco-Manufacturing (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox (Thailand) Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. (Headquarters)■Acquisition of P-Mark and ISMS
*1 Privacy Mark (P-Mark): A mark granted by the Japan 
Information Processing Development Corporation (JIPDEC) 
to companies in which personal information is handled appropriately.
*2 ISMS: Certification regarding the overall management framework for information including personal information (Information Security Management System).Employment
LaborFY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Leave of absence 
for nursing care5 (Male 0, 
Female 5)2 (Male 1, 
Female 1)2 (Male 2, 
Female 0)5 (Male 1, 
Female 4)3 (Male 1, 
Female 2)
Leave of absence for childcare55 (Male 1, 
Female 54)34 (Male 2, 
Female 32)52 (Male 5, 
Female 47)42 (Male 1, 
Female 41)43 (Male 1, 
Female 42)
Leave of absence for volunteer work0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)
*Number of employees who began a leave of absence during the relevant fiscal year.■Number of employees taking a leave of absence*
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2013
Nursing care leave3 (Male 1, 
Female 2)5 (Male 3, 
Female 2)13 (Male 6, 
Female 7)16 (Male 9, 
Female 7)13 (Male 9, 
Female 4)
Childcare leave4 (Male 2, 
Female 2)2 (Male 1, 
Female 1)2 (Male 0, 
Female 2)9 (Male 6, 
Female 3)6 (Male 4, 
Female 2)
Child medical care63 (Male 10, 
Female 53)55 (Male 5, 
Female 50)71 (Male 11, 
Female 60)108 (Male 27, 
Female 81)48 (Male 9, 
Female 39)
Volunteer work leave0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)35 (Male 26, 
Female 9)1 (Male 1, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)
*Number of employees who began a leave during the relevant fiscal year.■Number of employees taking a care leave and volunteer work leave *
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Employment of  the challenged*1 1.77% 1.81% 1.96% 2.01% 2.12%
Re-employment*2 24 33 29 10 13
*1 Data up to April 30 for each fiscal year
*2 Re-employment refers to employees re-employed after retirement during the relevant 
fiscal year (April 1 to March 31).■Employment of the challenged and re-employment
Union members Proportion of union membership Average age of union members
4,053 73.4% 39.6
*Based on the number of regular employees (5,524)■Composition of labor union membershipAs of March 31, 2015
FY Item
2007• Revisions of the support system for encouraging a good work-life balance
• Revisions of policy on providing condolence money
2008• Revisions of the support system for encouraging a good work-life balance• Introduction of work regulations adapted to the citizen judge system
2009• Transaction from approved retirement annuity system to defined-benefit corporate pension system   • Revisions of retirement benefits   • Revisions of some employee systems
2010• Expansion of the childcare leave program   • Creation of the family care leave program   • Revisions of some employee systems   • Expansion of the child medical care leave program   • Increase in the upper limit on the number of times half-day leave can be taken
2011 • Revision of employees systems
2012• Revision of travel expenses   • Revision of employees systems    
• Revision of overseas working conditions   • Revision of re-employment after retirement
2013• Revision of work regulations, wage rules and other labor-related regulations
2014• Extension of the period of nursing care leave   • Flexible application for the flextime (for pregnant, childcare, and nursing care)   • Expansion of the domestic affiliates for secondment   • Revision of work regulations, wage rules and other labor-related regulations partly■Revisions to systems operating in accordance with agreements between the labor union and the company
As of March 31, 2015Giving 
birth and 
childcare 1.  Systems catering for pre- and post-birth requirements
 2.  Leave of absence for childcare
 3.  Use of stock leave for childcare
 4.  Systems for employment while raising children
 5.  Three-person interview at the time of returning to work from childcare leave
 6.  Child medical care leave program (1 relevant child: 6 days per year; 2 or more children: 11 days per year)
 7.  Reduced work hour program (child in the third grade or lower)
 8.  Use of stock leave for fertility treatment
 9.  Leave of absence for fertility treatment
 10.  Exemption from restrictions on non-scheduled hours worked and from work on holidays
 11.  Reinstatement to same workplace after leave of absence for childcare
Nursing 
care 1.  Leave of absence for nursing care program
 2.  Nursing care leave program (1 care recipient: 12 days per year; 2 or more care recipients: 24 days per year)
 3.  Use of stock leave for nursing care
 4.  Systems for employment while caring for a family member
Other 1.  Leave of absence for volunteer work, Using of stock leave for volunteer work
 2.  Use of stock leave for self-development
 3.  Active Life Leave 
 4.  Flextime
 5.  Discretionary labor system
 6.  Leaving the office on time (2 days per week)
 7.  Re-employment Program
 8.  Female Mentor Program■System for a good work-life balance
●In response to the 2010 amendment to Child Care and Family Care Leave Law, programs 
for supporting a balance between work and childcare or family care have been improved, and programs that exceed legal requirements are now in place, such as the improved child medical care leave program and the newly introduced family care leave program.
●Stock leave is a system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave time up to 60 days. Accumulated leave days may be used for treatment needed for personal health problems, rehabilitation, childcare, nursing care, and volunteer activities.Regular  
employees5,524<Breakdown>
General employees: 4,179  
(Male: 3,225, Female: 954)
Managerial personnel: 1,211  
(Male: 1,185, Female: 26)
Senior expert: 134 (Male: 134 , Female: 0)
Non-regular 
employees215<Breakdown>Temporary employees: 155,  Part-timers: 8,Employees re-employed after retirement: 7,  Other (Contract employees, etc.): 45As of March 31, 2015
■Composition of the Fujifilm workforce
*1 As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the 
beginning of April, 2015.
*2 Number of mid-career recruitment represents those from April 2014 to March 2015.■Recruitment
New graduate 
recruitment  
(FY2015)67*1 <Technical positions> Male 27, Female 6 <Administrative positions> Male 24, Female 7<On-site recruitment> Female: 3
Mid-career 
recruitment  2
*2Male 2■Status of regular employeesAs of March 31, 2015
Average 
ageAverage length 
of employment 
(years)Average 
number of 
dependentsAverage 
annual 
salary*1Utilization 
of paid 
leave*2Turnover 
rate*3Returning rate 
from childcare 
leave*4
Total: 
41.8
Male: 
42.0
Female: 
40.8Total: 17.6
Male: 17.3
Female: 18.91.398.5  
million 
yen56.7%Total: 
2.97%
Male: 
2.98%
Female: 
2.97%Total: 91.5%
Male: 0.0%
Female: 93.5%
*1 Average annual salary is calculated for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 
31, 2014.
*2 Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period from 
October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014.
*3 Turnover rate =
*4 Returning rate from childcare leave is calculated with the expiration date falls on April 1, 
2014 to March 31, 2015.Attrition + Retirement + Voluntary + New start for senior employees program 
Annual average number of employees at FUJIFILM Corporation (non-consolidated)
Industry average 
in parenthesis
Target: 0FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Work accident 
rate*1 0.31 (0.33) 0.00 (0.25) 0.09 (0.43) 0.11 (0.20) 0.00 (0.40)
Work accident severity*2 0.01 (0.15) 0.00 (0.13) 0.01 (0.12) 0.00 (0.01) 0.00 (0.13)■Work accident rate and work accident severity
*1 Work accident rate =                                                                                   × 1,000,000
*2 Work accident severity =                                                       × 1,000Number of employees involved in work accidents
Gross number of hours worked
Number of workdays lost
Gross number of hours worked
60 61 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Data and Information
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) Environmental Aspects
■Fujifilm FY2015 Priority Issues* Organizations covered in the environmental performance data are, as a general 
rule, those that are shown in the consolidated financial statements, and are 
significant in terms of environmental burden.
However, certain sales and manufacturing (assembly) subsidiaries are excluded.Those not shown specifically are included in the tabulation figures above. Moreover, figures for the Group total may not reflect the sum of each subtotal.
■Fuji Xerox FY2015 Priority IssuesEmployment
LaborNew graduate 
recruitment (FY2015)88*1 <Technical positions> Male 33, Female 13
<Administrative positions> Male 23, Female 19
Mid-career recruitment   43*2Male 37, Female 6
*1 As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the 
beginning of April, the number in the chart above represents new high school/junior 
college graduate recruitment (Male 0, Female 0) at the beginning of April 2015.
*2 Number of mid-career recruitment represents those from April 2014 to March 2015.■Recruitment
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Employment of persons with 
disabilities*1 1.86% 2.19% 2.08% 2.07% 2.06%
Re-employment*2517 508 485 524 506
*1 Data up to March 31, 2015
*2 Number of re-employed workers revised to real figures up to the day following the 
end of each fiscal year (March 31)■Employment and re-employment of persons with disabilitiesRegular 
employees8,961<Breakdown>General employees: 6,539 (Male: 5,358, Female: 1,181)Managerial personnel: 2,334 (Male: 2,214, Female: 120)Executive officers: 23 (Male: 23, Female: 0)Contract employees: 65 (Male: 42, Female: 23)
Non-regular 
employees736<Breakdown>Temporary employees: 223, Part-timers: 7,  Employees re-employed after retirement: 506■Composition of the Fuji Xerox workforceAs of March 31, 2015
Union members Proportion of union membership Average age of union members
6,495 72.7% 42.1
*Based on the number of full-time worker excluding executive directors (8,938)■Composition of labor union membershipAs of March 1, 2015FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Leave of absence for nursing care1 (Male 0, 
Female 1)2 (Male 0 
Female 2)7 (Male 4, 
Female 3)4 (Male 1, 
Female 3)3 (Male 1, 
Female 2)
Leave of absence for childcare
*244 (Male 5, Female 39)62 (Male 8, Female 54)52 (Male 4, Female 48)46 (Male 8, Female 38)56 (Male 9, Female 47)
Leave of absence for volunteer work
*30 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)3 (Male 2, 
Female 1)
*1 Number of regular employees (including contracted employees) who began a leave 
of absence during the relevant fiscal year (April 1 to March 31).
*2 As for leave of absence for childcare of the 2011 (Male), actual number was 7 
because there were male employees who took leaves for the same children during the relevant fiscal year.
*3 Number of employees who used the social service program.■Number of employees taking a leave of absence*1
* Data only for regular employees (non-regular employees are to be added actually)
*1 Accumulated paid leave: A system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave 
up to 60 days. Accumulated leave may be used for healthcare, childcare, nursing care, and volunteer activities.
*2 Double job program: This is not double duties by order, rather it is program, they 
are allowed engage in both their current work and work in another division through a system that matches the needs of divisions wanting to utilize senior workers’ skills and experience with the will of senior workers who wish to use their special skills or to take on new challenges.Giving 
birth and 
childcare•  Maternity leave (paid)
•  Leave of absence for childcare program (until two years old, including the 
housing cost support)
•  Program for rehiring former employees who left the company for reasons such as spouse’s transfer or childcare
•  Accumulated paid leave*1 for healthcare of employees’ family
•  Shortened working hours in pregnant and for childcare (from pregnancy to third grade of elementary school)
•  Limited off-hours work for childcare (until sixth grade of elementary school)
•  Limited late-night work for childcare (until six grade of elementary school)
•  Special leave for supporting the wife during her childbirth period (first child’s birth: 2 days; second child’s birth and thereafter: 5 days)
•  Leave of absence for birth support (one year leave system for fertility treatment)
Nursing 
care•  Leave of absence for caring for a family member (maximum 2 years)
•  Shortened working hours for caring for a family member
•  Limited off-hours work for caring for a family member
•  Limited late-night work for caring for a family member
•  One-day nursing care leave
•  Accumulated paid leave*1 for caring for a family member
Other•  Flextime
•  Homeworking system
•  Continuous service award special vacation; “refresh vacation”
•  Social service system (leave of absence program for employees participating in socially beneficial activities)
•  Accumulated paid leave*1 for volunteer activities
•  Leave of absence for education
•  Leave of absence for senior theme (support for senior employees’ second career)
•  Flexible work schedules (support for senior employees’ second career)
•  Double job program*2 (support for senior employees’ second career)■System for a good work-life balance
All those systems provide for generous leave beyond that required by law.
■Revisions to systems operating in accordance with agreements between the labor union and the company
As of March, 2015
FY Item
2007 •   Implementation of comprehensive secondment system
2008 •   Revisions to travel expense regulation
2009 •   Introduction of work regulations adapted to the citizen judge system
2010 •   Revision to the program for supporting childcare and family care
2011•   Revisions to work system on April 1, 2012 in accordance with 
agreements between the labor union and the company
2012•   Introduction of irregular working hours support system for developers and SEs
•   Revision of the employment and evaluation criteria for post-retirement re-employees
2013 •   Introduction of on-site irregular working hours support system for SEs
2014•   Introduction of new work style (co-working hour system, homeworking system, remote working system for domestic sales)■Number of employees taking a care leave*1, and  
total number of volunteer work leave
* Data only for regular employees (non-regular employees are to be added actually)
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Nursing care leave*228 (Male 21, 
Female 7)26 (Male 17, 
Female 9)27 (Male 15, 
Female 12)26 (Male 16, 
Female 10)26 (Male 17, 
Female 9)
Childcare leave*3 226 (Male 89, 
Female 137)237 (Male 86, 
Female 151)197 (Male 72, 
Female 125)284 (Male 97, 
Female 187)298 (Male 86, 
Female 212)
Volunteer work leave*4
(total number of days )27 (Male 18, 
Female 9)
(83 days)118 (Male 94, 
Female 24)
(530 days)50 (Male 38, 
Female 12)
(135 days)15 (Male 11, 
Female 4)
(54 days)18 (Male 12, 
Female 6)
(47 days)
*1 Number of regular employees (including contracted employees) who began a leave 
during the relevant fiscal year (April 1 to March 31).
*2 Number of employees taking leave of nursing care leave under the “accumulated 
paid leave (nursing care for family members),” “nursing care for family members” and “one-day nursing care leave” programs
*3 Number of employees taking childcare leave under the “accumulated paid leave (child healthcare)” and “child medical care” programs
 As a program equivalent to childcare leave, special leave (of 5 days at most) is 
granted for care of the eldest child at the time of birth of the second child. In fiscal 2014, 59 male employees took leave under this program.
*4 Volunteer work leave shows the number of employees who took “accumulated paid 
leave (volunteer activity)” and the number of days spent for such activities.■Status of regular employeesAs of March 31, 2015
*1 Average annual salary is not publicly disclosed.
*2 Turnover rate =
*3 Returning rate from childcare leave is calculated with the expiration date falls on April 
1, 2014 to March 31, 2015.Attrition + Retirement + Transfer + New start for senior employees program
Number of employees at Fuji Xerox (non-consolidated)+  
annual average number of assigned employeesAverage ageAverage length 
of employment 
(years)Average 
number of 
dependentsAverage 
annual 
salary*1Utilization 
of paid 
leaveTurnover rate*2Returning rate 
from childcare 
leave*3
Total: 44.8
Male: 45.7
Female: 39.8Total: 19.7
Male: 20.3
Female: 16.01.16—  
million 
yen62.3%Total: 3.7%
Male: 3.8%
Female: 3.4%Total: 98.0%
Male: 100.0%
Female: 97.5%
■Work accident rate and work accident severity
*1 Work accident rate =                                                                                   × 1,000,000
*2 Work accident severity =                                                       × 1,000Number of employees involved in work accidents
Gross number of hours worke d
Number of workdays lost
Gross number of hours workedIndustry average 
in parenthesis
Target: 0FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Work accident rate*10.19 (0.23) 0.55 (0.20) 0.31 (0.25) 0.11 (0.18) 0.00 (0.16)
Work accident 
severity*2 0.01 (0.00) 0.01 (0.01) 0.00 (0.01) 0.00 (0.00) 0.00 (0.13)Priority Targets
Priority Issues Strategies
1. Contributing to resolving 
environmental issues through 
products and services
• Measures against global warming*1
• Water resource conservation
• Energy
*1   Target: Reducing CO 2 emissions by 20 
million tons by FY2020Develop and disseminate products and services that contribute to resolving environmental issues. (CO 2 emission reduction, 
water issues, energy issues)
•   Quantifying Fujifilm’s contribution to CO 2 emissions reduction based on the Environmental Contribution Effectiveness 
Guidelines to convey our efforts to customers.
•   Quantifying the effects of Fujifilm’s contribution to resolving water resource issues based on the Water Footprint Guidelines 
to convey our efforts to customers.
2. Promoting the reduction of energy 
costs through measures against global warming*2 and efficient energy 
use
*2   Target: By FY 2020, reduce CO 2 
emissions throughout the life cycle 
of products by 30% based on the standards set in FY 2005① Continually promote CO 2 emission reduction at each of the stages of product lifecycle (procurement, manufacturing, 
transportation, use, disposal).
② Conserve energy so as to contribute to resolving energy issues and promote the reduction of energy costs.
•   Maximizing the use of in-house power generation facilities (by improving their operation efficiency and wheeling electricity 
generated in-house).
•   Achieving the optimal combination of various energy sources for regional and environmental conditions both inside and 
outside of Japan.
•   Continue to promote and deploy energy saving measures in production processes and at offices.
③ Draw up Fujifilm’s policy on the promotion of measures against global warming from 2020 and beyond.
3. Promoting the efficient use of 
resources① Use resource efficiently by promoting the 3Rs: Reduce-Reuse-Recycle.
② Reduce waste (by yield increase, reuse of manufacturing waste, conversion of waste into valuables etc.).
③ Promote the concept of Zero Waste Disposal at main production sites both inside and outside of Japan.
④ Promote the effective use of water resources (saving water to reduce the amount of water use per unit of production).
⑤ Determine main products’ indices per unit, and verify their validity.
4. Ensuring product and chemical safety① Continue dissemination of approaches and systems to the supply chain concerning management of chemicals in products.
•   Improve the systems for management of chemicals in products at production sites in Asia.
② Continue to improve the systems for ensuring product compliance to comform to diversification of products. 
•   Standardize criteria and procedure to assess product compliance. 
•   Conduct product compliance assessment from the early stage of product development.
③ Conduct safety assessment based on the product safety policy and relevant procedure. 
•   Review the systems for acquiring and communicating information on product safety.
5. Value chain management from the view 
point of corporate social responsibility① Improve Ethical Sourcing investigation for suppliers.
② Have each of the group companies carry out self CSR assessment and improve their CSR performance.
③ Continue appropriate response to survey concerning the conflict mineral issue.
④ Ensure procurement assessment on biological resources and meet requirements under the Nagoya Protocol on Access and 
Benefit-Sharing (ABS).
6. Environment and safety risk 
management① Promote efforts for environmental and safety issues on a global scale.
•   Maintain systems for strict compliance to meet legal requirements and voluntary control limits.
•   Maintaining and strengthening waste management and waste processing governance.
•   Strengthening systems for promoting the occupational safety and health and increasing employees’ awareness on health.
② Continue to control and maintain the level of VOC emissions generated from the production process.
7. Information disclosure and 
communication of relevant information① Promote efforts for environmental and safety issues on a global scale.
•   Maintain systems for strict compliance to meet legal requirements and voluntary control limits.
•   Maintaining and strengthening waste management and waste processing governance.
•   Strengthening systems for promoting the occupational safety and health and increasing employees’ awareness on health.
② Continue to control and maintain the level of VOC emissions generated from the production process.
8. Employee education① Educate and train employees in the areas of environment, chemicals, product safety, occupational safety, etc.
② Continue implementing employee awareness campaigns on the need to reduce environmental burdens.
Priority Issues Strategies
1. Controlling global warming
*Greenhouse gas reduction target by 2020
(1)   By FY2020, 30% reduction in CO
2 
emissions during the company’s overall lifecycle stage from the level in FY2005
(2)   Reduce CO
2 emissions at 
customers by seven million tons by FY2020① Contribute to help reduce CO 2 emissions from customers’ office and factory by providing energy saving products & solutions 
② Reduce CO 2 emissions by installing the new energy-efficient equipment and improving productivity in production process at 
the development and production sites 
③ Reduce CO 2 emissions in office by reforming employees’ work style
④ Reduce CO 2 emissions by improving efficiency in the product logistics
2. Preservation of natural resources① Establish the next generation eco-friendly structural material technologies, such as biomass 
② Reduction of resource input with lighter equipment 
③ Curb use of new resources by recycling used parts 
④ Reduction of waste output and recovery of valuable substances at production and product development sites
⑤ Reduce water usage in production and product development sites
3. Reduction in environmental risk from 
chemical substances① Reinforce measures against laws and regulations to reduce chemical substance risks from products (observing RoHS, 
REACH, etc.) 
② Reinforce management structure to expand chemical substance management system to overseas sites 
4. Preservation of ecosystems and 
biodiversity① Promote sustainable paper procurement concerning for forest ecosystems
② Participate in Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB)
5. Improvement of the infrastructure for promoting environmental targets ① Reinforce systems to grasp environmental performance data
② Reinforce measures to respond proactively to environmental regulation
62 63 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Data and Information
Conserving Resources Measures
Environment Conscious in Logistics
Activities on Biodiversity Conservation(thousand kiloliters)■Breakdown of consumption of heavy oil, etc.  
(Fiscal 2014)* 
*Consumption in manufacturing onlyHeavy oil Kerosene Light oil Gasoline
Japan 48.4 1.5 0.1 0.0
Overseas 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.3
Group total 48.4 1.5 0.9 0.3■Annual changes in energy consumption*1
2014 2005
(Base year)05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,000(TJ)
(FY)2,273235
5,130
3,928
8,081
8,177272427,824
2011 20101,935
5,217
9,877
2,784
7,00826,848
20122,132
5,220
9,509
2,587
6,35325,825
26
20132,176
5,525
8,978
2,553
6,47525,733
39381,758
5,583
8,334
2,232
6,38924.096 24,333
1,781
5,603
8,391
2,059
6,223Overseas, gas*3
Overseas, heavy oil, etc.*2
Overseas, electric power
Japan, gas*3
Japan, heavy oil, etc.*2
Japan, electric power
*1 Per unit calorific value 
is based on the Energy 
Conservation Act.
*2 Total of heavy oil A, 
heavy oil C, kerosene, light oil and gasoline
*3 Total of natural gas, 
liquefied natural gas (LNG), city gas, butane and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)Environmental Aspects
■FY2014 water usage by region
Japan
88%Asia/Oceania
excl. Japan & ChinaChina 3%
Europe 4%
America 5%0.2%■Fujifilm Group’s water usage
Water
input Wastewater
discharge
RecycleUse
Factories
Products
Social
contribution
CommunicationBiodiversity conservation
Enlightenment for 
FF/regionContribution by 
fund/goods/laborProducts for 
biodiversity conservationMinimum in marketConservation of 
resourcesConservation in 
regionMinimum impact
◎Domestic education program within the Fujiﬁlm Group   
○Communication meeting with region○Contribution through fund (Fujiﬁlm Green Fund)   ○Cooperation with region or NPOs and NGOs
○Support for environment education projects for the next generation
○: Measure related to biodiversity conservation (on going)  ◎: Measure related to biodiversity conservation (middle target: plan)  ●: Measure indirectly related to biodiversity conservationDirect contribution (monitor etc.)●Indirect contribution via CO 2 reduction (Solar cell etc.)●Energy saving products   ◎Resource saving / product recycling◎CSR procurement (connect to BD)
◎ABS (TMR: Total Material Requirement)○Cultivation   ○Springs   ○Rice ﬁeld (biotope), (Greening)●Chemicals cont.   ◎Waste water cont.   ●Air pollution   
●CO2 emissions   ○Wastes   ◎Land useGrasp/measure 
for impact● Minimize impact in manufacture [Defense]
● Contribution to maintain/recover on biodiversity [Offence]■CO2 emissions*
FY2005 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Japan/Manufacturing1,084 884 937 918 903 894 886 
Japan/Non-manufacturing28 29 28 24 25 31 28 
Overseas/Manufacturing345 291 342 367 384 352 349 
Overseas/Non-manufacturing30 30 28 29 26 42 42
Group total 1,487 1,233 1,335 1,338 1,338 1,318 1,305
* Calculation method: Calculation of CO
2 emission by energy usage specified in the Act 
on the Rational Use of Energy. Emission coefficient by electric power utility used for 
purchased power.(kt-CO 2/year)
■Activities on biodiversity conservation -online-* Organizations covered in the environmental performance data are, as a general 
rule, those that are shown in the consolidated financial statements, and are significant in terms of environmental burden.
However, certain sales and manufacturing (assembly) subsidiaries are excluded.Those not shown specifically are included in the tabulation figures above. Moreover, figures for the Group total may not reflect the sum of each subtotal.
Anti-Global Warming Measures
* Calculation method: Calculation of CO 2 emission by energy usage specified in the Act 
on the Rational Use of Energy. Emission coefficient by electric power utility used for purchased power.■2014 CO 2 emission by region* (manufacturing)(kt-CO 2/year)
CO2 emission
Japan 914
OverseasAmericas (USA, Canada & Brazil) 157 
Europe (Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, UK & France) 90
China 112
Asia excl. China & Oceania (Australia, South Korea, 
Singapore, etc.) 33   
Group total 1,305 
Energy-Saving Measures
■Annual changes in total CO 2 emissions in 
domestic logistics*
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Total CO 2 
emissions40,936 41,450 44,278 47,075 45,633 
* Total CO 2 emissions are calculated as the amount of CO 2 emitted by FUJIFILM 
Logistics Co., Ltd. in its logistics activities for the Fujifilm Group companies. Since 
FY2006, we shifted calculation method to the method based on revised Energy Conservation Law (travel distance of empty cars not included in calculations, etc.).(tons of CO
2/year)■Annual changes in domestic transport volume *
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Transportation volume 164 175 194 186 181
* Range of transportation volume is calculated within the range of ownership in 
compliance with reporting under the Revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy.(million tons/kilometer)
■Annual changes in container and packaging material* used 
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Total consumption 19.0 18.5 18.2 16.3 15.5
* Total of corrugated paper boxes, paper materials, paper containers, metal materials, 
plastic molds, plastic film/sheet and glass used.(thousand tons/year)■Annual changes in amount of CO 2 reductions and reduction 
rates through transportation efficiency improvements* (Domestic distribution)
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Amount of CO 2 reductions  
(tons of CO 2/year)7,004.0 6,969.9 7,753.6 6,353.7 11,403.5 
CO2 reduction rate (%) 14.8 14.4 14.9 11.9 20.0 
* In the fiscal year 2014, we enforced our activities for CO 2 reductions in collaboration 
with a specified consigner. Major reduction initiatives, which proved effective, include 
starting modal shifts (road transport to sea transport ) in FY2014, as well as improving carrying efficiency by double stacking during transport and enhancing gasoline mileage by eco-driving. The amount was a total figure of each facility’s CO
2 reduction measure.CO2 reduction rate (%) =Amount of CO 2 reductions
Total CO 2 emissions + CO 2 reductions■Annual changes in reduction in export packaging material 
weight* (Cumulative total)
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Packaging material reduction rate 5.7 3.4 10.1 15.5 9.3
* Total weight of export packaging materials handled by FUJIFILM Logistics in fiscal 2014 
was 1,348,502.0 tons. Weight was reduced by 138,294.2 tons, with yearly reduction 
rate of 9.3%. (%)
Packaging material reduction rate (%) = Weight reduced
Total material weight + weight reduced■Annual changes in waste generation*1,  
recycling & final disposal *2
01020304050607080
2014 (FY) 2013 2012 2011 2010(thousand tons/year)
16.1
1.0
25.8
29.09.1
1.1
30.9
29.27.3
0.7
31.5
30.671.9 70.3 77.1 70.0
6.8
1.0
32.1
33.072.9
7.6
2.5
35.0
32.0Final waste disposal: 
Overseas
Final waste disposal: 
Japan
Recycled volume: 
Overseas
Recycled volume: 
Japan
*1 Processed by external service providers
*2 Simple incineration or landfill disposal
■Main recycling methods for waste products
Waste product Recycling method
Plastics (sorted) Pallets, pipes, clothing, heat insulation materials
Plastics (mixed)/Filters Blast furnace fuel
Magnetic tape Blast furnace fuel, tatami mat material, heat insulation materials
Aluminum hydroxide Aluminum sulfate (flocculant for water treatment)
Inorganic sludge, polishing agent Cement, roadway material, construction materials
Organic solvent Paint thinner
Acids and alkalines Neutralizer
Mixed flammable waste products Solid fuels, electricity and hot water productionFluorescent lamp Glass wool
Batteries Zinc, smelt iron
Left over food, raw garbage, organic sludge Fertilizer, animal feedDocuments, empty boxes Recycled paper
Iron, aluminum, copper, etc. Smelt metal■Annual changes in valuable resources* 
* Valuable resources sold to the third party.(thousand tons/year)
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Japan 56.8 54.6 37.8 33.6 33.6 
Overseas 21.2 21.3 28.4 27.2 30.1
Group total 78.0 75.9 66.1 60.9 63.7■Annual trend in water usage, recycling and discharge as 
wastewater
60.0
58.056.054.052.050.048.046.044.042.040.0200180160140120100
80604020
0(million tons/year)
(per usage %)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY)53.254.154.6
52.7
49.7 49.4
48.5 48.4
44.755.5161.6
151.3185.2
174.1Usage Group total Discharge *1 Group total Recycle rate *2
141.7
*1 Includes water, rainwater, etc. used in the business activities
*2 Recycle rate including cooling water usage
64 65 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Data and Information
Environmental Aspects Domestic and International Appraisals
Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions Pollution Prevention Measures
Legal Compliance MeasuresSee pages  21 24 25 57
■Reductions in VOCs atmospheric emissions*  
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
Category Name of substanceReduction 
(tons)Reduction rate in comparison 
to previous fiscal year (%)
Substances requiring reporting under the PRTR LawDichloromethane 4 5
Substances voluntarily controlled by the companyMethyl alcohol 28 11
Ethyl acetate −16 −31
Methyl ethyl ketone 2 7
Acetone 1 3
*Reduction in volumes in fiscal 2014 compared with actual levels in previous year■Annual changes in atmospheric emissions of VOCs
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Japan 10.3 10.1 7.6 6.9 6.9
Overseas 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.9 2.1
Group total 12.1 11.9 9.5 8.8 9.0(hundred tons/year)
■Storage and management of devices/equipment containing PCBs* (FY2014)
* Based on the law related to PCB waste. Only materials containing the high 
concentrated PCBs
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/site/pcb.html
(in Japanese only)Types of equipment containing PCBs UnitStoring and managing amount
Japan Group total
High voltage transformers Quantity 18 32
High voltage condensers Quantity 297 387
PCB oil waste, etc. kg 188.1 188.1 
Fluorescent lamp stabilizers Quantity 14,225 14,225
Low voltage condenser excluding fluorescent lamps Quantity 117,092 117,092
Low voltage transformer Quantity 20 20
Rags, etc. kg 914.4 914.4
Other devices Quantity 14 14■Response to the PRTR Law (Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)
In addition to those substances that must be reported under the PRTR Law (Pollutant 
Release and Transfer Register Law), Fujifilm controls another 10 items on a voluntary basis, primarily substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association as requiring au-tonomous monitoring, and has been endeavoring to reduce those emission on consolidat-ed basis. Data (usage volume, atmospheric emissions volume, emission into public water, volume going into sewage water, volume moved outside of facilities, and volume recycled) on substances used in amounts of one ton or more per year by Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates may be found on the following Fujifilm website.
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/site/atmosphere/prtr.html
 (in Japanese only)■Annual changes in volume of atmospheric emissions
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
SOx emissionsJapan 18 22 20 21 22
Overseas 6 1 1 4 5 
Group total 25 24 20 25 27 
NOx emissionsJapan 445 470 391 450 424 
Overseas 41 40 66 74 61 
Group total 486 510 457 523 486 
Soot particle emissionsJapan 2.7 3.0 5.9 5.7 5.0
Overseas 1.3 0.7 0.6 6.9 0.9
Group total 4.1 3.8 6.5 12.7 5.9
Atmospheric emissions 
of specified CFCs*CFC-11 1.13 0.10 0.20 0.00 0.21
CFC-12 0.04 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 
*Group total, below the limit of detection = 0(tons/year)
■Annual changes in water contaminant burden & emissions*1
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Total amount of COD*2Japan 84.1 93.2 85.0 85.2 82.3
Overseas 15.3 21.7 24.4 31.3 57.0
Group total 99.4 115.0 109.5 116.5 139.4
Total amount of BOD*3Japan 45.5 46.7 43.6 43.3 38.3
Overseas 5.5 6.2 2.9 1.6 10.1
Group total 51.0 52.8 46.5 45.0 48.3
Total amount of nitrogen emissions Japan 282.3 254.5 259.0 246.5 223.3
Total amount of phosphorous emissionsJapan 9.1 5.2 2.5 3.4 5.3
*1 Effluent release into public water bodies
*2 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand): An indicator of water pollution. COD indicates 
the amount of oxygen consumed when water-borne pollutants (primarily organic 
contaminants) are oxidized upon the introduction of an oxidant.
*3 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand): BOD is a way to measure the degree of water 
pollution, and indicates how much oxygen in the water is being used by organisms to decompose contaminants by looking at the reduction in oxygen in the water.(tons/year)
■Surveying and remediating soil and underground water pollution  
(FUJIFILM Corporation and its domestic affiliates/Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates)
The Fujifilm Group autonomously conducts environmental surveys on soil and underground water pollution. Regarding substances that are used at manufacturing facilities and that are subject to environmental limits set by regulations, the Group rigorously manages the usage and storage of such substances and monitors the concentrations of such substances in underground water. We are prepared to deal with any unforeseen pollution incidents in a timely fashion.
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/site/leakage/
(in Japanese only)
  http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/company/csr/stakeholder/environment/target.html
(in Japanese only)
Company/site name: FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc., Mesa (USA)
Description Exceeded ammonia emissions
ResponseDefects were found in the ammonia detection device, and replaced with new. 
Regular maintenance will be conducted.
*Relatively minor violations have been excluded.■Responses to environment-related complaints and legal violations in FY2014*■Legal compliance and reports on complaints in FY2014
In 2014, there were four violations of environment-related laws (of which three were over -
seas) and four customer complaints (of which two were overseas). The major issue involved 
in these violations was equipment installation without prior notification—the measures against this has already completed. 
Japan Overseas Group total
Number of legal violations (number of cases solved) 1 (1) 3 (3) 4 (4)
Number of complaints (number of cases solved) 2 (2) 2 (2) 4 (4)■Ranking and status of SRI audit
FUJIFILM Holdings has received the following eval -
uations by external organizations as a corporate 
group that proactively promotes CSR actions toward sustainable development. It is included in the Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) index listed below. Also listed right are evaluations of FUJIFILM Holdings in domestic and international ranking surveys.Survey Evaluation for FUJIFILM Holdings
9th CSR Corporate Ranking (2015, Toyo Keizai, Inc.) 1st out of 1,305 companies (576.4 points)
18th Nikkei Environmental Management Survey 
(sponsored by Nikkei Inc.)10th out of 419 manufacturers;  
1st in the petrochemical field for the eighth consecutive year
8th JUSE Quality Management Level Research (Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers)4th out of 192 companies;  
1st in the machinery and precision equipment field 
Nikkei Brand Survey 47th out of 560 companies
CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Score of 94, Rank of B
Recipient Name and description of the award Awarding entity
FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationThe Selection Committee’s Special Prize, the 18th Environmental Communication Awards,FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Ministry of Environment,  Global Environmental Forum
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation 6th best place, Randstad Award 2015 and 1st place in the university and post-graduate section Randstad Japan
FUJIFILM Corporation/Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Good Design Awards 2014 (Fujifilm’s 9 major products such as A4 LED full-color printer) Japan Institute of Design Promotion
FUJIFILM Corporation/Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.The Commendation for Science and Technology by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Prizes for Science and Technology Development Category (Development of inkjet ink having excellent image fastness/Development of the induction heating (IH) fusing technology that delivers both convenience and energy conservation)Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
FUJIFILM CorporationEnergy Conservation Grand Prize 2014, Reviewer’s Prize of the Successful Case of Energy Conservation Category (Wheeling of electric power with in-house power system to reduce peak time electricity consumption)The Energy Conservation Center, Japan
FUJIFILM CorporationThe 46th Ichimura Prizes in Industry—Main Prize (Development and mass production of a large capacity data tape that uses barium ferrite magnetic particles)The New Technology Development Foundation
FUJIFILM Corporation The Prize of invention (Invention of effective moisturizer containing human-type nano ceramides) Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation
FUJIFILM Corporation QuickSnap resistered as Essential Historical Materials for Science and TechnologyNational Museum of Nature and Science of Japan
FUJIFILM CorporationThe 61st Annual Okochi Memorial Grand Technology Prize, Mass (Production technologies of large capacity data tape cartridge that use barium ferrite magnetic particles)Okochi Memorial Foundation
FUJIFILM CorporationFujinomiya Factory received Award for Excellence in green factory from the Director-General of the Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade and IndustryMinistry of Economy, Trade and Industry
FUJIFILM CorporationThe 63rd Chemical Society of Japan Chemical Technology Award (Negative-Tone-Imaging (NTI) Process for the manufacture of semiconductor devices)The Chemical Society of Japan
FUJIFILM CorporationThe 14th Green and Sustainable Chemistry AwardAwarded by the Minister of Economy, Trade and IndustryJapan Association for Chemical Innovation
FUJIFILM Techno Products Co., Ltd.2014 Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity (implementation of countermeasures and dissemination)Ministry of the Environment
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Co., Ltd. Excellent Performance AwardTaiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Minister’s Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry at the 11th Eco-Products Awards The Eco-Products Awards Steering Committee
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.The 8th ASP-SaaS-Cloud Consortium (ASPIC) Chairman Special Prize at the 8th ASP-SaaS-Cloud Award 2014ASP-SaaS-Cloud Consortium (ASPIC)
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. The IT Consulting/Upstream Design Services category of Customer Satisfaction Survey 2014-2015 Nikkei BP
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.Highest in 2014 IT Solution provider Customer Satisfaction Index Study
SM
Highest in 2014 Japan Color Copier Customer Satisfaction Index StudySM 
Highest in 2014 Japan Color Printer Customer Satisfaction Index StudySMJ.D. Power Asia Pacific, Inc.
Fuji Xerox Advanced Technology Co., Ltd. WorldStar Award in the WorldStar Competition World Packaging Organization (WPO)
TOYAMA CHEMICAL CO., LTD. 2014 Prize for CreativityMinistry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. 2014 Gold Award Greenwood Metropolitan District
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. 2014 SC Industrial Water Quality Achievement AwardWater Environmental Association of South Carolina (WEASC)
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc. Preferred Quality Supplier Award Intel Corporation
FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V. Milieucafé award (Environment Café award) Milieucafé (Environment Café )
FUJIFILM Belgium NV RAY-CUP Fost Plus
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) NV Preferred Quality Supplier Award Intel Corporation
FUJIFILM Speciality Ink Systems Ltd. Sustainable Innovation Awards 2014 British Coatings Federation (BCF)
FUJIFILM Speciality Ink Systems Ltd. Manufacturing Champions Awards 2014 British Coatings Federation (BCF)
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Limited Gold Medal for Occupational Health & SafetyThe Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA)
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems (Suzhou)  Co., Ltd.Green Company of Suzhou citySuzhou Film Medical Equipment Technical Research and Engineering Center■Appraisals and awards in FY2014 
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index
 FTSE4Good Global Index
 RobecoSAM  
Sustainability Award  2015
Morningstar Socially Responsible Index 
(As of June 2015)
66 67 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015Data and Information
Sustainability Accounting  
(Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)
Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting
Environmental Accounting■Overview of FY2014
●Expenditure on improving working conditions and for socially ben-
eficial activities for different stakeholders is summarized.
●Efforts are made to create a worker-friendly environment through expanding educational seminars and supporting mental healthcare programs.
●For local communities, expenditure includes a donation to build the Japan Photographic Preservation Center and a product dona-tion to the Nature Conservation Society of Japan. In the promotion of art and culture, expenditure includes Fujifilm Square as the base for preservation and communication concerning photographic cul-ture, as well as for photo contests.<Period of coverage>
FY2014 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015)
<Scope of labor environment and social benefit accounting>
70 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm 
and 19 Fujifilm affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 47 Fuji Xerox affiliates, and TOYAMA CHEMICAL)
<Basic items>
●Objectives of labor environment and social benefit accounting
These accounts are prepared to allow the Fujifilm Group to keep up with its activities for improving the working environment of its employees and the amounts spent for social contributions by preparing data on these activities from an economic perspective.
●Accounting method
The expenditures (including investments) for the year have been added up to arrive at the figures shown. These figures do not include depreciation. Figures for personnel training and social contributions may overlap with figures in the Environmental Account as well.
■Overview of FY2014
●Environmental conservation costs
Overall costs were increased by 2%. Approximately 5% of total 
costs was for facility investment and 95% was expenditure. This ratio is almost the same as the previous year.
[Facility investments]
Reduced approx. 28% year-on-year. This is due to the drastic drop in investment into facilities related to plants.
[Expenditure]
Expenditure was increased by ¥1.8 billion or 4% year-on-year, through efficient measures in workplace. R&D costs occupy approx. 40% of the entire expenditure.
●Environmental conservation benefits
The economic effect grew 1% to ¥1.3 billion year-on-year internally an externally.
[Internal economic effect]
Reduced by 14% year-on-year.
[External economic effect]
Rise in benefits for customers led to a marked increase of ¥4.1 bil-lion or 3% year-on-year.<Period of coverage>
FY2014 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015)
<Scope of environmental accounting>
72 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm 
and 19 Fujifilm affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 49 Fuji Xerox affiliates and TOYAMA CHEMICAL)
<Basic items>
●Objectives of environmental accounting
(1)   To provide accurate quantitative information on volumes and economic 
effects to interested parties inside and outside the Group
(2)   To provide numerical environment-related information useful for decision 
making by management and supervisors at the working level
●Accounting method
Based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition)” published by the Ministry of the Environment in Japan.
(1)   Depreciation is calculated in principle according to the straight-line method 
over a three-year period.
(2)   When costs include expenditures for both environmental and non-
environmental purposes, the portion relating to non-environmental 
purposes has been excluded.
(3)   Economic impact within the Group: The difference in value terms from 
the previous year in fines for polluting and usage of energy, raw materials, water, and other resources is accounted for, as well as the real impact of recovery, recycling, and other measures in value terms for the year in question.
(4)   Economic impact outside the Group: The difference in value terms from the 
previous fiscal year has been shown for SOx, VOCs, and CO
2. For recy-
cling, the anticipated benefit in value terms has been shown for the year in question.
■Customer benefits
The customer benefits were calculated in amounts through compar -
ing the use of a new product purchased by the client with the envi-
ronmental burden when the customer uses an older product.
Total benefits to customers for FY2014 increased by ¥4.1 billion 
or 4% over the previous year. Greater use of energy-saving equip-ment, such as combination of EA-Eco Toners and IH Fusing, or high-density magnetic memory materials in office printers increased the power-saving effects.ProductAmount
FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
1.   High-density magnetic memory 
materials 5,597 3,987 7,710
2.   Pre-sensitized aluminum plate not 
using plate-making film65,212 75,333 74,967
3.   Film for LCDs: WV films 14,797 11,769 9,605
4.   Digital color multifunction device and 
printers22,943 24,656 27,585
Total 108,549 115,745 119,867(million yen)Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting
Environmental Accounting■Breakdown of labor environment and social benefit accounting(million yen)
Stakeholder GoalCost totals
FY2013 FY2014
EmployeesWork health and safety 1,643 1,567
Personnel training 2,757 2,655
Protect diversity 917 1,088
Develop a workplace in which 
employees can work comfortably1,210 1,323
CustomersEnsure appropriate customer response and safety274 282
Future generations Education for future generations 24 3
Communities (local society and government)Harmony with the local community 116 62
Promote culture and the arts in society  (in Japan)883 813
International communityConsideration for the international community and international cultures42 8
NGOs and NPOs Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs 14 19
Suppliers Consideration for products 50 59
Total 7,928 7,880■Volunteer activities during working hours
*Volunteer activities
Calculated based on the hours spent on volunteer activities, such as area clean-up, working hours, the salary equivalent to that of those hours, and cost of the activities.FY2012 FY2013 FY2014
Hours spent on volunteer activities 4,700 7,210 1,435
Volunteering cost 12 million yen 19 million yen 4 million yen
(million yen) ■Environmental accounting for FY2014
Environmental conservation costs Environmental conservation benefits
Capital investment Expenses Economic impact inside the Group Economic impact outside the Group
FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014
1.   Costs incurred within the 
business site 1,995 1,307 8,376 7,793
    (1)   Environmental damage 
prevention 327 237 2,058 2,034Reduced pollution levy 0 0Reduction in SOx 
emissions*10.000 0.000 
Reduction in volume of SOx emissions -2 tons -1 tons
Reduction in volume of NOx emissions -21 tons 40 tons
Reduction in VOC emissions
*218 2
Reduction in volume of VOC 53 tons 5 tons
    (2)   Global environmental 
protection1,487 1,068 4,022 3,506 Energy conservation 1,654 505Reduction in CO
2 
emissions*352 9
Reduction in volume of CO
2 emissions 61 kilotons 10 kilotons
    (3)   Resource recycling 181 1 2,295 2,254Reduced raw materials and resources used9,832 8,590Reduced waste materials through reuse and recycling
*4
Reduced volume*616,900
169.0 kilotons16,900
169.0 kilotonsReduced water resource consumption*5 628 882
Recovery and recycling
   Silver 1,453 1,109
   Polymeric materials 590 451
   Aluminum materials 119 122 Reuse of aluminum 
materials
Reduced volume of CO
2 emissions27 24
   Others 389 231 30 kilotons 20 kilotons
2.   Upstream/downstream costs      Recovery from the market0 0 7,293 7,348QuickSnap recovery, Parts recovered from used equipment5,630 5,630
3.   Cost of management 
activities 50 71 7,894 9,134
4.   Research and development 
costs 617 592 15,964 17,464Customer benefits are shown in the table on page 68.115,745 119,867
5.   Costs for social programs 55 6 486 61
6.   Costs for handling 
environmental damage
    Pollution levies22 9 44 43
Total 2,739 1,985 40,057 41,845 20,295 17,521 132,742 136,802
*1 SOx emissions reductions: ¥13/ton
 Bidding price of SOx emissions credits offered by the United States Environmental 
Protection Agency in March 2015 (US$0.11/ton).
*2 VOC emissions reductions: ¥350,000/ton
 From the “Economics Evaluation Report on Countermeasures for Harmful 
Atmospheric Pollutants” issued by Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, February 2004.*3 CO
2 emissions reductions: ¥907/tons
 Trading price of EU emissions credit 2015 futures (€6.8/ton) at the end of March 
2015.
*4 Landfill costs for the waste product (¥100/kg).
*5 Water resource consumption reduction: ¥200/ton for clean water supply, ¥200/ton for sewage water times the reductions amount.
*6 Volume of recycle and valuable resources in generated industrial waste
68 69 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015At the beginning of Top Message, the chairman explained 
the necessity of achieving the 2016 targets of the Medium-Term Management Plan laid out last year and the activities organized from a new perspective in the Sustainable Value Plan (SVP) 2016. However, the world is presently undergoing dramatic changes, as he mentions in the latter half of his message. 
Likewise, drastic changes are about to begin in 
Japan’s business environment and in society. Though be-lated, the Japanese Version of the Stewardship Code has been established by the Financial Services Agency, and a Corporate Governance Code has been introduced by the Agency and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. I expect the way business enterprises deal with these will hugely affect their future.
In order to achieve the target of the G7 countries and 
of the Abe cabinet to cut GHGs by more than 80% in 2050 over the 1990 level and to comply with the political decision to curb the rise in global average temperatures to 2°C or less as agreed internationally, GHGs must be reduced by 100% or further to subzero emissions by 2100. In order to address this, I look forward to the devel-opment and announcement of a business vision for 2050 or targets for 2030, although they do not need to be numerical figures.
Although the announcement of targets for 2020 and 
later is commendable, I would like Fujifilm to commit itself to “targets” not as something that must be realized with-out fail. Many Western business enterprises are setting “goals” without any target year, expressing their commit-ment in their policy direction. I believe this is an alternative that should be considered in developing the medium- to long-term strategy expected under the Corporate Governance Code.
With global environmental regulations and restrictions 
being laid down today for society a few decades ahead, businesses will not be able to exist by merely conducting “business as usual.” A change in the business model—in other words, innovation—is necessary. And this is what should be expected of an advanced business like Fujifilm. The company stands at the leading edge in Japan for establishing its 2020 target for CO
2 emissions reduction 
and announcing the results of its efforts. However, this approach is still rooted in the 20th century. Japanese businesses lag behind the top businesses in Western nations in terms of policy commitments to achieving zero CO
2 emission.
In SVP 2016, CSR is discussed in universal terms, not 
limited in time to three years. The activities putting this into practice are impressive. The various performance in-dicators demonstrate success. With this much achieved, I believe that Fujifilm will win high ratings from ESG* inves-tors if the company introduces narrative to its longer-term strategy. It must be noted also that integrated thinking, combining financial data with non-financial information on the environment, etc., is important. With many institutional investors signing up to the Stewardship Code and ESG investment already a mainstream form in Europe, I believe the trend will take root in Japan in the near future. There will also be a growing risk of “not buying” the products and services by client companies from the ESG perspec-tive. For this reason, I believe Fujifilm should deploy ESG aggressively as a source of competitiveness and make more dramatic progress in its effort to “integrate business and social issues.”
In climatic change and biodiversity, two areas where 
humankind is causing serious problems, I believe the lat-ter is an issue replaceable with the problem of resource circulation for a manufacturing business. In this respect, Fujifilm’s activities in resource recycling and reusing, waste handling and in the value chain are impressive and should continue be at the vanguard in the development of a cy-cling society. The concept is being discussed in Europe with the term “Circular Society.”
Fujifilm also speaks explicitly of the importance of di-
versity, aiming to become “a company where employees of diverse backgrounds are able to show their strengths,” and of improvements in performance, which I evaluate highly as uncommon among Japanese businesses. However, I would like to see it in the data on performance, goals, etc., for the entire group.
The company’s performance in the field of social con-
tribution is also impressive. In the future, I hope that it will work on tie-ups with NGOs and consider engagement in the relevant SDG items to be adopted by the UN in September that would lead to business opportunities.
* ESG investment: A form of investment that places emphasis not only on 
financial data but also on non-financial data on the environment, society and governance as items in measuring corporate value. Investment takes place on the assumption that ESG are risk factors for business enterpris-es, but at the same time investment return factors that bring long-term advancement in corporate value. (Definition by the author)Toshihiko Goto
Chief Executive Officer, 
Sustainability Forum Japan
Profile
Serves as Chairman of the Sustainable Management Forum of Japan, Board Member of Global Compact Network Japan, director and executive advisor of Japan Sustainable Investment Forum, Director of Green Finance Organization and directorships at various other organizations. He is also a national committee member for ISO/TC207, SCI, SC4, a judge for the Environmental Communication Award and Chairman of the Workshop for the Information Disclosure Infrastructure Developing Project, and serves as chair or member of various other committees of the Ministry of the Environment (MoE). He had graduated from the Faculty of Law, the University of Tokyo.Independent Assurance Report
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation commissioned SGS Japan Inc. to conduct an independent assurance of the envi-
ronmental and social data contained in its Sustainability Report 2015. Please refer to our website for further details.
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/verification/index.htmlThird-Party Opinion
70 71 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015-2550
25
0
201420132012(Billions of yen)
(FY)
−0.83.6
05001,0001,5002,0002,500
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
05010015002505007501,000
201420132012
02505007501,000
0255075100
02505007501,000
0255075100■ Consolidated revenue* ■ Consolidated operating 
income (loss)
■ Consolidated operating income
■ Consolidated revenue* ■ Consolidated operating income
(Billions of yen)
■ Consolidated revenue*
(Billions of yen)■ Consolidated operating income
(Billions of yen)200(Billions of yen)1,012.2*After elimination of intersegment transaction
*After elimination of intersegment transaction
*After elimination of intersegment transaction■ Consolidated revenue
(FY)(Billions of yen)
(FY)
201420132012 201420132012 (FY) (FY)
201420132012 201420132012 (FY) (FY)(Billions of yen)373.6
346.0
(Billions of yen)856.5933.9361.081.2
72.972.9
1,132.5■ Proportion of consolidated 
revenue by region (FY2014)■ Proportion of consolidated revenue by operating segments (FY2014)
2,217.12,195.32,492.6
2,440.0
2,214.7
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (FY)
172.420.7
953.6 1,178.0
112.9140.8
114.1
136.4
Japan
41.2 %Imaging 
Solutions
14.5 %
Document Solutions
47.3 %Information Solutions
38.2 %
The Americas
18.7 %Europe
11.6 %Asia and others
28.5 %*Following organizational changes carried out in the ﬁrst quarter of FY2013, the optical device 
business was moved from Information Solutions to Imaging Solutions. In accordance with this change, the numerical values for FY2012 has been restated.
■ Proportion of revenue 
by business (FY2014)Imaging Solutions
Photo Imaging
67%
Optical Devices and 
Electric Imaging
33%
■ Proportion of revenue
by business (FY2014)Information Solutions
Healthcare
41%Ofﬁce and Industry 
Electronic Materials etc.
10%
FPD Materials
14%Recording Media
5%
Graphic Systems
30%
■ Proportion of revenue 
by business (FY2014)Document Solutions
Ofﬁce Products
44%Others
11%
Production 
Services
13%Global Services
16%
Ofﬁce Printers
16%101.3
96.0
75.9Proportion of consolidated employees 
by region (FY2014) (as of March 31, 2015)
7.8%The Americas 6.0%Europe36.9 %Asia and others
49.3 %Japan
FUJIFILM Corporation Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.TOYAMA CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.FUJIFILM Business
Expert CorporationShared service company Operating companiesHolding company
100% 100% 75% 66%FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries SubsidiariesFujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview
●Fujifilm Group Organization Overview (as of March 31, 2015)●Holding Company: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Company name: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Representative: Shigetaka Komori
Head office: Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052, JapanEstablished: January 20, 1934
Capital: ¥40,363 million (as of March 31, 2015)
Employees: 120 (as of March 31, 2015)Consolidated employees: 79,235 (as of March 31, 2015)
Consolidated subsidiaries: 273 (as of March 31, 2015)
  http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.html For information about the consolidated subsidiaries of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, please visit:
We welcome your comments to improve our future reports. We would appre-
ciate your participation in the questionnaire accessible from the following URL:
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/report/
questionnaire/index.htmlhttp://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/index.html
●Process of creating the report●Editorial Policy
Communication (using tools such as dialogue meetings, surveys, and inquiries)
Daily business operation (CSR activities)Publishing
the 2014 reportAugust 2014
Publishing
the 2015 reportAugust
Receiving
improvement
proposals from
third partiesFormulating the
editorial policyInterviewing
individual
departmentsReceiving
third-party
opinionsOctober December February to July 2015 June to AugustStakeholders
FUJIFILM Holdings
Group companiesUse as
communication toolsUse as
communication toolsIncorporation of
improvement
proposalsUse as
communication toolsUse as
communication toolsIncorporation
of opinions
Collection and provision of informationEconomic
Environmental Social(including governance)
(including governance) (including governance)
Disclosed in 
the Sustainability
Report (PDF)
Disclosed on the website
(HTML)
Importance of information to the Fujiﬁlm GroupImportance of information to stakeholders
HighHigh
Lowdisclosed as
IR information
disclosed as
CSR informationdisclosed as
CSR information■Report on economic aspects
■Report on social and 
environmental aspects
Sustainability Report 2015Annual Report 2015
Online Version
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/investors/annual_reports/2015/index.html
IR Site (website)
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/investors/index.html
CSR Site (website)
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/sustainability/index.html
●Period covered by the report
Fiscal year 2014 (April 1, 2014–March 31, 2015) is covered in the performance data. With 
regards to the contents of activities, wherever possible, we have conveyed the most recent trends, including activities in FY2015.
●Organizations covered by the report
The Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, FUJIFILM Corporation and its affiliates, Fuji Xerox and its affiliates, TOYAMA CHEMICAL, and FUJIFILM Business Expert)
◎Major consolidated companies are shown on page 72 and on our website.
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.html
◎Quantitative information about personnel and labor affairs is nonconsolidated data for FUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji Xerox.
◎The scope of Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting is shown on page 68. The scope of Environmental Accounting is shown on page 68.
◎The scope of environmental aspects is shown on page 63.
●Date of publication
August 2015 (next report: August 2016, previous report: August 2014)●Referenced guidelines
◎Japan’s Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version)
◎GRI: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4)
◎Japan’s Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 Version)
◎ISO 26000: Social Responsibility
●Supplemental information regarding reported matters
◎The term “employees” refers to all employees, including managers, general employees, and part-time staff. The term “company employees” indicates employees (full-time staff). To further ensure the accuracy of the report, the terms “regular employees” and “non-regular employees” (temporary staff, part-time staff, others) have been used sepa-rately as required.
◎The operating company, Fuji Xerox, issues a separate sustainability report. Please refer to that report for details on the activities of Fuji Xerox.
[GRI Guidelines (G4) Comparison Table] (In accordance-Core)
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/report/guideline/index.html
[ISO 26000 Comparison Table]
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/report/iso26000/index.htmlFUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report 2015 was edited with a ma-
jor emphasis on our CSR activities, which have high relevance to both the Fujifilm Group and its stakeholders in the areas of environment and society among the three aspects generally involved in a corporation’s activities. The main article in the Report concerns FUJIFILM Holdings’ Medium-Term CSR Plan, Sustainable Value Plan 2016 (SVP 2016), which runs from FY2014 to FY2016 and was created based on “Value from Innovation,” the Fujifilm Group’s slogan. 
SVP 2016 is composed of three promotion policies. Policy 1 is 
“solving social issues through business activity,” which is our new ini-tiative. We have introduced active efforts under this initiative across the four areas of Health, Daily Life, Environment, and Work Style, which were chosen through a materiality assessment. Policy 2 concerns our continuing efforts in reducing environmental impact from our business processes; and Policy 3 involves CSR management enhancement across the entire value chain, which is the foundation of corporate ac-tivity. Not only describing our CSR activities in text, we have also paid attention to visual effects and layout to present the activity contents and their progress in an easy-to-understand manner by using icons to emphasize the important points, color codes to distinguish the articles related to each policy, and clear diagrams of activity progress.
Further, additional references and data for related activities are 
also covered for completeness. We also published a comparison table between ISO 26000 and GRI on our website to increase accessibility to CSR-related information through Internet searches. Finally, this year we requested the independent assurance on our environmental and social activity data, in addition to the conventional third party opinion, in order to ensure the accuracy of the reporting.
Each Fujifilm Group company, including Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, 
has its own CSR website for active disclosure of information concern-ing their CSR activities. For more details of the Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities, please refer to each company’s official website. 
72 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015 73Date of publication: August 2015
© 2015 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation◎ About the art works on the front cover
The Fujifilm Group is recording and storing cultural and artistic works in the 
form of photos and images to pass on to future generations. We do this as part of our social contribution through our business. Thanks to coopera -
tion from the Nara National Museum, we are presenting works owned by the museum on the front cover of this report.
The establishment of Nara National Museum was first planned in May 1889 by the 
government of the day as one of three imperial museums, the others being in Tokyo and Kyoto; it actually opened in April 1895. Nara National Museum marks the 120th anniversary of its foundation in 2015. FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2015
Senmen Gaj ō,  
Fan-shaped Paintings
Nara National MuseumIndividual items from the top:
Peonies and small birdsBamboo in snowAutumn plants and small birdsPhoenixes on paulownia 
In Japan, in the Heian period (794–1192), 
fans featuring beautiful paintings with mo -
tifs from popular stories of the day became widespread among the aristocracy. Such fans were also exported to the continent during the Heian period and Muromachi period (1336–1573). For the front page of this year’s report, four such fans were cho-sen featuring the theme of “nature” from the numerous fan-shaped paintings owned by Nara National 
Museum.
Photo courtesy of Nara National Museum
Nara National Museum
50 Noboriojicho, Nara, Nara Prefecture 630-8213, Japan
Phone: 050-5542-8600http://www.narahaku.go.jp/english/index_e.html
■Please address inquiries on this publication to:
CSR Group, Corporate Planning Division
Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052Tel.: +81-3-6271-2065 Fax: +81-3-6271-1190http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/contact/index.htmlFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Guideline Comparison Tables
ISO26000 / GRI GuidelineAttached 
Reference─ 1 ─ISO26000 Comparison Table
ISO26000  
Core SubjectsIssues Pages in this Report 2015
Organizational 
GovernanceOrganizational Governance Top Commitment
Corporate GovernanceCSR Management
《Promotion policy 3 》 [Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk Management
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSR
◆Web Site
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/governance/index.html
◆Annual Rrport
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdfP. 4-5
P. 10P. 11-12P. 40-44 
P. 48-50 
—
—
 
Human Rights 1. Due diligence
2. Human rights risk situations
3. Avoidance of complicity4. Resolving grievances5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups6. Civil and political rights7. Economic, social and cultural rights8. Fundamental principles and rights at work《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk Management
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRSocial Contribution ActivitiesPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 40-44 
P. 48-50 P. 53-55
P. 61P. 62
Labour 
Practices1. Employment and employment relationships
2. Conditions of work and social protection3. Social dialogue4. Health and safety at work5. Human development and training in the workplace
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 2］  Develop and Utilize 
Diverse Human Resources
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 45-47 
P. 48-50 P. 61
P. 62
The 
Environment1. Prevention of pollution
2. Sustainable resource use3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Environment］
《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2］  Promote Resource 
Recycling
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Ensure Product and 
Chemical Safety
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRSocial Contribution ActivitiesEnvironmental AspectsSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social 
Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 24-25
P. 28-29 
P. 30-33 P. 34-35 P. 36 P. 48-50 P. 53-55
P. 63-66P. 68-69
Fair Operating 
Practices1. Anti-corruption
2. Responsible political involvement3. Fair competition4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain5. Respect for property rights
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk Management
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRCompliance and Risk ManagementProducts and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views
◆Web Site: Approach to Intellectual Property
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/rd/property/index.htmlP. 40-44 
P. 48-50 P. 60
P. 56-58
—
Consumer 
Issues1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair 
contractual practices
2. Protecting consumers’ health and safety
3. Sustainable consumption4. Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute 
resolution
5. Consumer data protection and privacy6. Access to essential services7. Education and awareness《Promotion policy 1 》 Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
Concerning the Environment, People’s Health, Daily Life, and 
Working Style through our Products and Services
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Health］
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Daily Life］
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Environment］
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Working Style］
Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views
◆Web Site: Application of Integrated Management System
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/activity.html
◆Web Site: Quality Policy
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/quality.htmlP. 16-17  
P. 17-20
P. 21-23P. 24-25P. 26-27P. 56-58
—
—
Community 
Involvement and Development1. Community involvement
2. Education and culture3. Employment creation and skills development4. Technology development and access5. Wealth and income creation6. Health7. Social investment《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Health］
Social Contribution ActivitiesSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social 
Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 17-20
P. 53-55P. 68-69FUJIFILM Holdings has created a comparison table to verify if the information is disclosed in accordance with the seven core subjects 
of “ISO26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility” published in November 2010.─ 2 ─GENERAL STANDARD 
DISCLOSURESIndicators Pages in this Report 2015
Strategy and AnalysisG4-1Statement from the most 
senior decision-maker of the organizationTop Commitment P. 04-05
G4-2Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunitiesFujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
◆Web: Medium-term Management Plan
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/vision/index.htmlP. 08-09
—
Organizational ProfileG4-3 Name of the organization Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview P. 72
G4-4Primary brands, products and/or servicesThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview
◆Web: Business Field
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/field/index.htmlP. 06-07P. 72
—
G4-5Location of the organization’s 
headquartersFujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview P. 72
G4-6Number and names of countries where the organization operatesTop Commitment 
The Fujifilm Group’s Business
◆Web: Group Companies
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.htmlP. 04-05P. 06-07
—
G4-7Nature of ownership and legal 
formFujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview
◆Web: Group Companies
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.htmlP. 72
—
G4-8 Markets servedThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
Fujifilm Group Organization and Business OverviewP. 06-07P. 72
G4-9Scale of the reporting 
organizationPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview
◆Web: Business Overview
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/factsheet/index.htmlP. 61P. 62P. 72
—
G4-10 Details of workforcePersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)Fujifilm Group Organization and Business OverviewP. 61P. 62P. 72
G4-11Percentage of total employees 
covered by collective bargaining agreementsPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) P. 61P. 62
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain
《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 3 》 Enhance the CSR Framework Supporting 
the Corporate Activities across the Value Chain
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRP. 28-29 
P. 38-39 P. 48-50 
G4-13Significant changes during the 
reporting periodFujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview P. 72
G4-14Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organizationCSR Management
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Ensure Product and 
Chemical Safety
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk ManagementP. 11-12
P. 34-35 
P. 36 P. 40-44 
G4-15Externally developed charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures （International Council of Chemical 
Associations (ICCA), Japan Chemical Industry Association）
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk Management (Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP))
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSR (Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA))P. 30-33  
P. 40-44 
 
P. 48-50 
 
G4-16Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 3］  Ensure Product and 
Chemical Safety
《Promotion policy 2 》 TopicsP. 30-33 
P. 36 P. 37GRI Guideline (G4) Comparison Table (GRI Content Index for “In Accordance”)
The Report is in accordance with the CORE of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4).─ 3 ─Identified Material Aspects 
and BoundariesG4-17All entities included in the organization’s financial statements or equivalent documentsFujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview
◆Web: Business Overview
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/factsheet/index.htmlP. 72
—
G4-18Process for defining report content and BoundariesCSR Management
FUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016Editorial PolicyP. 11-12P. 14-15P. 73
G4-19All the material Aspects identified 
in the process for defining report contentFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016 P. 14-15
G4-20Report the Aspect Boundary within the organizationThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
Fujifilm Group Organization and Business OverviewEditorial PolicyP. 06-07P. 72P. 73
G4-21Report the Aspect Boundary 
outside the organizationThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
Fujifilm Group Organization and Business OverviewEditorial PolicyP. 06-07P. 72P. 73
G4-22The effect of any restatements of 
information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatementsN/A N/A
G4-23Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect BoundariesN/A N/A
Stakeholder EngagementG4-24Stakeholder groups engaged by the organizationCSR Management P. 11-12
G4-25Basis for identification and selection of stakeholdersCSR Management P. 11-12
G4-26Approach to stakeholder engagementCSR Management
Stakeholder CommunicationP. 11-12P. 13
G4-27Key topics and concerns raised 
through stakeholder engagementCSR Management
《Promotion policy 2 》 Response to the Third-Party Opinion
《Promotion policy 3 》 Response to the Third-Party Opinion
Third-Party OpinionP. 11-12
P. 33P. 47P. 71
Report ProfileG4-28Reporting Period for information 
providedEditorial Policy P. 73
G4-29 Date of most recent report Editorial Policy P. 73
G4-30 Reporting cycle Editorial Policy P. 73
G4-31 Contact point for questionsAddress inquiries on this publication to:
◆Web: Contact Sustainability
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/contact/index.htmlBack cover
—
G4-32Report the ‘in accordance’ option chosen, content index, and external assurance reportIndependent Assurance Report
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/verification/index.
html
Editorial Policy
GRI Guideline (G4) Comparison Table (GRI Content Index for “In 
Accordance”)P. 70
— 
P. 73— 
G4-33Organization’s policy and current 
practice with external assurance of the reportThird-Party Opinion
Editorial PolicyP. 71P. 73
GovernanceG4-34Governance structure of the 
organizationCorporate Governance P. 10
G4-35Process for delegating authority for sustainability topics from the board to senior executives and other employeesCorporate Governance P. 10
G4-37Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topicsCorporate Governance
◆Web: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/governance/index.htmlP. 10
—
G4-38Composition of the board and its committeesCorporate Governance
◆Web: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/governance/index.htmlP. 10
—
G4-39Whether the chair of the board is also an executive officerCorporate Governance
◆Web: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/governance/index.htmlP. 10
—─ 4 ─GovernanceG4-40Nomination and selection 
processes for the board and its committeesCSR Management
◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdfP. 11-12
—
 
G4-42Board’s and senior executives’ 
roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to sustainability impactsCorporate Governance
CSR Management
◆Web:  Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/governance/index.html
◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdfP. 10
P. 11-12
—
—
 
G4-43Measures taken to develop and 
enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topicsCorporate Governance P. 10
G4-44Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topicsCSR Management P. 11-12
G4-45Board’s role in the identification and management of sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities, and in the implementation of due diligence processesCSR Management P. 11-12
G4-46Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topicsCSR Management
◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdfP. 11-12
—
 
G4-47Frequency of the highest 
governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunitiesCorporate Governance
◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdfP. 10
—
 
G4-48Highest committee or position 
that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are coveredCSR Management
FUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016P. 11-12P. 14-15
G4-49Process for communicating 
critical concerns to the highest governance bodyCorporate Governance
◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdfP. 10
—
 
G4-50Nature and total number of 
critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve themN/A N/A
G4-51The remuneration policies for the board and senior executives, and the linkage between performance criteria and the organization’s sustainability objectives
◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdf—
 
G4-52Process for determining 
remuneration◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdf—
 
G4-53How stakeholders’ views are 
sought and taken into account regarding remuneration◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdf—
 
G4-54Ratio of the annual total 
compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country ◆Annual Report: Corporate Governance: Audit & Supervisory Board/
Internal Audit 
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/annual_reports/2015/
pack/pdf/Corporate-Governance.pdf— 
 
Ethics and IntegrityG4-56Organization’s values, principles, 
standards and norms of behaviorTop Commitment
The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessFujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)CSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016P. 04-05P. 06-07P. 08-09P. 11-12P. 14-15
G4-58Internal and external mechanisms 
for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk ManagementP. 40-44 ─ 5 ─SPECIFIC STANDARD 
DISCLOSURESIndicators Pages in this Report 2015
EconomicDMATop Commitment 
The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessCSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
《Promotion policy 1 》 Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
Concerning the Environment, People’s Health, Daily Life, 
and Working Style through Our Products and Services.P. 04-05
P. 06-07P. 11-12P. 14-15P. 16 
 
Economic PerformanceG4-EC1Direct economic value generated and distributedSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)
Fujifilm Group Organization and Business OverviewP. 68-69 
P. 72
G4-EC2Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Environment］
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social 
Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 24-25
P. 30-33 
P. 68-69 
Indirect 
Economic ImpactsG4-EC7Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supportedThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
Social Contribution ActivitiesP. 06-07P. 53-55
EnvironmentalDMATop Commitment The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessCSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
《Promotion policy 1 》 Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and 
working style through our products and services
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Environment］
《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 3 》 Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate activities across the value chainP. 04-05
P. 06-07P. 11-12P. 14-15P. 16 
 
P. 24-25
P. 28-29 
P. 38-39 
MaterialsG4-EN1Materials used by weight or 
volume
《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 63-66
G4-EN2Percentage of materials used 
that are recycled input materials《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
Environmental AspectsP. 34-35 
P. 63-66
EnergyG4-EN3Energy consumption within the 
organization《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 63-66
G4-EN5 Energy intensity《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 63-66
G4-EN6Reduction of energy 
consumption《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Environmental AspectsP. 30-33 
P. 63-66
WaterG4-EN8Total water withdrawal by 
source《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 34-35 P. 63-66
G4-EN9Water sources significantly 
affected by withdrawal of water《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
Environmental AspectsP. 34-35 
P. 63-66
G4-EN10Percentage and total volume of 
water recycled and reused《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 34-35 P. 63-66
EmissionsG4-EN15Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (Scope 1)《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］ Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 30-33 P. 63-66
G4-EN16Energy indirect greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions (Scope 2)《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］ Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 30-33 P. 63-66─ 6 ─EnvironmentalEmissionsG4-EN17Other indirect greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions (Scope 3)《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］ Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 30-33 P. 63-66
G4-EN18Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions intensity《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 30-33 P. 63-66
G4-EN19Reduction of greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 30-33 P. 63-66
G4-EN21NOx, SOx, and other significant 
air emissions《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 63-66
Effluents and 
WasteG4-EN22Total water discharge by quality and destination《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 34-35 P. 63-66
G4-EN23Total weight of waste by type 
and disposal method《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes Actively
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 2] Promote Resource 
Recycling
Environmental AspectsP. 28-29 
P. 34-35 P. 63-66
Products and 
ServicesG4-EN27Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Environment］
《Promotion policy 2 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Promote Global 
Warming Countermeasures
Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social 
Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 24-25
P. 30-33 
P. 68-69 
Compliance G4-EN29Monetary value of significant 
fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsEnvironmental Aspects P. 63-66
Transport G4-EN30Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce
《Promotion policy 2 》 Solve Environmental Issues within 
Business Processes ActivelyP. 28-29 
Overall G4-EN31Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by typeSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 68-69 
Supplier Environmental AssessmentG4-EN33Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions takenN/A N/A
Environmental Grievance MechanismsG4-EN34Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanismsEnvironmental Aspects P. 63-66
Labor Practices and Decent WorkDMATop Commitment 
The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessCSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
《Promotion policy 1 》 ［Working Style］
《Promotion policy 3 》 Enhance the CSR Framework 
Supporting the Corporate Activities across the Value ChainP. 04-05P. 06-07P. 11-12P. 14-15P. 26-27P. 38-39 
EmploymentG4-LA1Total number and rates of new 
employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and regionPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 61P. 62
G4-LA2Benefits provided to full-
time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operationPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 61P. 62
G4-LA3Return to work and retention 
rates after parental leave, by genderPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 61P. 62─ 7 ─Labor 
Practices and Decent WorkOccupational Health and SafetyG4-LA6Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work–related fatalities, by region and by genderPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 61P. 62
G4-LA7Workers with high incidence or 
high risk of diseases related to their occupationN/A N/A
G4-LA8Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1］  Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk ManagementP. 40-44 
Training and EducationG4-LA9Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 2］  Develop and Utilize 
Diverse Human Resources
Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social 
Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 45-47 
P. 68-69 
G4-LA10Programs for skills management 
and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 2］  Develop and Utilize 
Diverse Human Resources
Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social 
Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 45-47 
P. 68-69 
Diversity 
and Equal OpportunityG4-LA12Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversityPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 61P. 62
Labor 
Practices Grievance MechanismsG4-LA16Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanismsN/A N/A
Human RightsDMATop Commitment 
The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessCSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
《Promotion policy 3 》 Enhance the CSR Framework 
Supporting the Corporate Activities across the Value Chain.P. 04-05P. 06-07P. 11-12P. 14-15P. 38-39 
InvestmentG4-HR1Total number and percentage 
of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningN/A N/A
G4-HR2Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trainedSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 68-69 
Non-discriminationG4-HR3Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions takenN/A N/A
Freedom of Association and Collective BargainingG4-HR4Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3] Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRP. 48-49 
Child Labor G4-HR5Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3] Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRP. 48-49 
Forced or Compulsory LaborG4-HR6Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 3] Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRP. 48-49 
Security PracticesG4-HR7Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operationsN/A N/A
Indigenous RightsG4-HR8Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous Peoples and actions takenN/A N/A
Supplier Human Rights AssessmentG4-HR11Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
《Promotion policy 3 》 [Priority issue 3] Enhance Value Chain 
Management from the Viewpoint of CSRP. 48-49 ─ 8 ─SocietyDMATop Commitment
The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessCSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
《Promotion policy 3 》 Enhance the CSR Framework 
Supporting the Corporate Activities across the Value ChainSocial Contribution ActivitiesP. 04-05P. 06-07P. 11-12P. 14-15P. 38-39 
P. 53-55
Local 
CommunitiesG4-SO2Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communitiesN/A N/A
Anti-corruptionG4-SO4Communication and training on anti–corruption policies and procedures
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1] Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk ManagementP. 40-44 
G4-SO5Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1] Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk Management
Compliance and Risk ManagementP. 40-44 
P. 60
Anti-
competitive BehaviorG4-SO7Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes
《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1] Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk ManagementP. 40-44 
Compliance G4-SO8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations《Promotion policy 3 》 ［Priority issue 1] Raise Compliance 
Awareness and Ensure Risk Management
Environmental AspectsP. 40-44 
P. 63-64
Product 
ResponsibilityDMATop Commitment 
The Fujifilm Group’s BusinessCSR ManagementFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
《Promotion policy 1 》 Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
Concerning the Environment, People’s Health, Daily Life, 
and Working Style through Our Products and Services
Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ ViewsP. 04-05P. 06-07P. 11-12P. 14-15P. 16 
 
P. 56-58
Customer 
Health and SafetyG4-PR1Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvementProducts and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views P. 56-58
Product and Service LabelingG4-PR5Results of surveys measuring customer satisfactionProducts and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views P. 56-58
Regarding “Pages in this Report”:
N/A: When those indicators have little relation with the Fujifilm Group’s business or there is no need of management.