Sustainability Report 2008Editorial Policy
FUJIFILM Holdings issues a sustainability report every year to
inform stakeholders about the corporate social responsibility(CSR) activities of the Fujifilm Group. In 
FUJIFILM Holdings
Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 , the style of disclosure
was changed from a stakeholder approach to a CSR-issuesapproach. Primarily, it documents the Group’s efforts in fiscal2007 with focuses on matters of interest and concern to stake-holders and CSR issues in the Medium-term CSR Plan of theFujifilm Group.And since the Fujifilm Group operates 13 businesses in 26countries around the world, the report includes more detailedinformation about efforts by overseas companies and Fuji Xeroxin addition to actions taken by Fujifilm.
Period covered by the report
Fiscal year 2007 (April 1, 2007—March 31, 2008) is covered in the per-formance data. With regards to the contents of activities, whereverpossible, we have conveyed the most recent trends, including activitiesin fiscal 2008. 
Organizations covered by the report
The Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm and its affiliates, FujiXerox and its affiliates)•Major consolidated companies are shown on page 95. •Quantitative information about personnel and labor affairs is non-con-
solidated data for Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox. 
•The scope of Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting is
shown on page 79. The scope of Environmental Accounting is shownon page 85.
Referenced guidelines •Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines—
Towards a Sustainable Society (Fiscal Year 2007 Version)
•GRI: Sustainable Reporting Guidelines 2006•Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Accounting Guidelines
(Fiscal Year 2005 Version)
Supplemental information regarding reported matters •Different subjects for the Fujifilm Group, Fujifilm and its affiliates, and
Fuji Xerox and its affiliates are used in this report for the sake ofaccuracy. For the scope of these subjects, please refer to page 95. 
•The term “employee” refers to all employees, including managers,
general employees, and part-time staff. The term, “company employ-ees,” indicates full-time staff. To further ensure the accuracy of thereport, the terms “regular employees” and “non-regular employees”(temporary staff, part-time staff, others) have been used separatelyas required. 
•
The operating company, Fuji Xerox, issues a separate sustainability report.
Please refer to that report for details on the activities of Fuji Xerox.Since fiscal 2003, the Fujifilm Group has conducted CSR activ-
ities and disclosed information referring to the approach of theAA1000 Series. We utilize this framework to properly alignCSR activities with the preparation of this report. The contentof this report as well as the CSR efforts of the Fujifilm Grouphave been evaluated by a third-party organization before beingprovided to stakeholders. Starting with this report, FUJIFILMHoldings requested a review by the BSI Management SystemsJapan K.K. in accordance with the AA1000 AssuranceStandard to ensure a proper evaluation of the Group’s CSRactivities against stakeholder expectations and requests andto make certain that these activities are appropriatelyreflected in this report.Utilization of the AA1000 FrameworkFujifilm Group and stakeholders
Market
Societies (local and worldwide)
EnvironmentTransaction
partnersEmployeesShareholders
and investors
Customers
Future
generations
Communities
Fujifilm Group
Suppliers
NGOs/NPOsIndustrial
associations,
Government
organizations,
Business partners
(universities, doctors,
others)Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
Medium-term CSR Plan Highlights 264 CSR Activities Report
Data and InformationIn addition to Fujifilm Group’s products and technologies, this feature
highlights two priority areas of VISION75, our medium-term managementplan, under the theme, “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” as upheld in thecorporate philosophy. “Response to Climate Change” and “CSR Activitiesin China” are also detailed as part of our Medium-term CSR Plan.
Medium-term CSR Plan Highlights report on the progress of activities in
four challenges that are priority areas for the Fujifilm Group’s CSR, includ-ing the formulation of policies, planning, the creation of a framework, andissues focused on in fiscal 2007.The CSR Activities Report features the Fujifilm Group’s extensive CSRefforts organized by theme. Activities that the Fujifilm Group regards asimportant are discussed as well as stakeholder interests.
This section contains basic information about CSR activities and quan-titative information regarding environmental aspects, personnel andlabor affairs. 
*Items included in Data and Information section are shown on P.75 and respective pages.CONTENTS
Compliance
Risk ManagementFacilitating Personnel Development and 
Achievement at Fujifilm
Facilitating Personnel Development and 
Achievement at Fuji Xerox
Creating a Safe, Healthy Workplace for All EmployeesToward Enhancing Customer SatisfactionFujifilm Group Green PolicyEnvironmental Burdens of the Fujifilm Group
Stakeholder Dialogue (Reducing Environmental Burdens)
GRI Guideline Comparison Tables
The Scope of This Report
Domestic and International AppraisalsDissemination of Investor Relations Information/
Disclosure of CSR Information, Editorial Postscript91
Evaluation Results Based on AA1000 Assurance Standards 92
Fujifilm Group Business Overview 94
9596
97Initiatives in the Medical Field
Initiatives in the Printing Field
Stakeholder Dialogue (Eco-printing)
Related page Page 79: Communication with stakeholdersRelated page
Page 28: Steps for Promoting CSR Activities and Progress Evaluation
Related page
Page 92: Evaluation Results Based on AA1000 Assurance StandardsResponse to Climate Change
CSR Activities in China8Fujifilm Group Technologies and R&D 6
12
16
20
Steps for Promoting CSR Activities 
and Progress Evaluation
Enhancing stakeholder dialoguesStakeholder Dialogue 
(Biodiversity—A Dialogue with the Future Generation)
Stakeholder Dialogue (Biodiversity—A Dialogue with Experts)
Stakeholder Dialogues 2008
Group Company’s Stakeholder Dialogue (Logistics)
Response to New Trends
Strengthened Information Disclosure28
Strengthening Governance 30
Stakeholder Dialogue (Human diversity)34
36
Compliance with Environmental Laws 
and Regulations38Design for Environment
Chemical Substance Management 
for Safety and the Environment
Chemical Content ManagementEffective Waste Management and RecyclingSustainable Use of WaterBiodiversity Conservation
Contributing to Society
Working Together with Local Communities4245
46
48
50
525456
58
6062
646667
70
73Editorial Policy
Top Commitment 2
40
743 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 2 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008We thrive on change.
To meet the challenges of changing times,
we adapt and innovate.
Responding to the expectations of
society and creating connections to
the future are the fundamental principles
of our corporate management.
In last year’s sustainability report, I reported that the entire
Fujifilm Group was working in concert to realize a robust corpo-rate constitution and to create a new business structure towardour Second Foundation. These efforts, that is, the fundamentalreform of the Fujifilm Group, are still underway. It is the respon-sibility of top management to complete this project as quicklyas possible.On the other hand, reform itself is a never-ending process. Toaddress the changing times and meet the demands and expec-tations of society to create new value, we must firmly deter-mine the course we should take and constantly reformourselves as well as the overall enterprise with a spirited enthu-siasm for new challenges. Metabolism is a function that enables all living things to live andgrow. Sometimes living things must even change their morphol-ogy and functions to survive in the face of new environmentalchallenges. Just like living things, a company, its organizations,functions, and individual employees cannot remain stationary.We must continue to evolve with courage and conviction.The Fujifilm Group achieved its highest ever sales (¥2,846.8 bil-lion) and operating income (¥207.3 billion) in fiscal 2007.However, we must never forget our commitment to constantlytackle difficulties and carry through with firm determination; wecan never simply rest on our laurels or bask in the approval ofsociety. In fiscal 2007, we completed large-scale structuralreforms for the Imaging Solutions Business that had been ourcore operation. At the same time, we selected and concen-trated management resources into priority business domains,through such efforts as aggressive capital investment in high-functional materials such as FPD (flat panel display) materialsand our entrance into the pharmaceutical business with theacquisition of Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd. To overcome change,it is vital to have the courage to face great pain and hardshipand the composure to see the situation through along withdrawing up effective strategies and tactics. I believe the following four conditions are necessary to proceedwith these reforms. The first is direction. It is particularly impor-tant to clearly declare where we are heading. Second, we muststeadfastly undertake challenges and carry through without giv-ing up. Third, employees as strong individuals. All our employ-ees should be professionals capable of demonstrating theircompetence in any setting. Finally, an efficient organizationthat is slim and muscular. With these conditions combined, wecan overcome any difficulties and create new value.In my New Year’s message for 2008, I declared, “Fujifilm willbecome a company that produces great people before produc-ing great products.” Every society, nation, and company con-sists of people, and these individuals hold the key to their ebband flow. Therefore, fostering personnel is critical for connect-ing the past, present, and future, that is, to be sustainable. Various jobs are intricately interwoven in a company, and eachone offers an opportunity for learning and growth. Every personworks in accordance with his or her duties and responsibilities,demonstrating all their capabilities, including sensitivity, criticalthinking, enthusiasm, fortitude, the ability to act, cooperation,sincerity, dignity, and so on. This repeated cycle shapes per-sonal growth and transformation. Regardless of age, experi-ence, gender, and nationality, human resources represent thetrunk of a massive tree, the company. I am convinced the path-way to the future lies in human resources with corporate cul-ture conducive for nurturing them, appropriate systems andmechanisms, and proper training and guidance.
TOP COMMITMENT
We thrive on change To meet the challenges of changing times, 
we adapt and innovateHuman resources connect the past, present 
and future
A company has no significance if it does not benefit society.
Therefore, people and organizations that can respond tochanges in the times and circumstances and meet the expecta-tions of society are absolutely necessary. These people andentities are required not only to respond to changes but toembrace them as opportunities. Furthermore, diversity, encom-passing a wide variety of knowledge and experience, multifac-eted viewpoints and ways of thinking, and various roles andvalues, supports an ever-changing world. The world has beensustained through changes brought about by this diversity, andit indicates affluence and facilitates generational change. Thisis also the essence of biodiversity, which is being increasinglyrecognized, along with climate change.I believe the significance of variety, the essential concept ofdiversity, is the key for CSR management. There is no sustain-ability without change, and this sustainability is jeopardizedwithout diversity. We are steadfastly focused on addressingchange and diversity because these will nourish the future.Change and diversity are the nourishment 
of the future
Shigetaka Komori 
President and Chief Executive Officer, FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation 
and Chairman, Group CSR CommitteeWe will use leading-edge, proprietary technologies to provide top-
quality products and services that contribute to the advancement ofculture, science, technology and industry, as well as improved healthand environmental protection in society. Our overarching aim is tohelp enhance the quality of life of people worldwide.Fujifilm Group Corporate Philosophy
Fujifilm Group Vision
Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate BehaviorAnchored by an open, fair and clear corporate culture and with lead-ing-edge, proprietary technologies, Fujifilm is determined to remain aleading company by boldly taking up the challenge of developing newproducts and creating new value.
In addition to pursuing profit through fair competition, corporations
must make a contribution to society at large. To this end, the FUJIFILM
Group, in its corporate activities in Japan and abroad, respects
human rights, observes both the spirit and the letter of all laws andregulations and international rules, and, acting in a socially responsi-ble manner, works independently toward the sustainable develop-ment of society and the FUJIFILM Group companies, in accordancewith the following five principles.
1. A Trusted Company
We develop and provide socially beneficial goods and services of the highest
quality using advanced and original technologies in a safe and responsiblemanner. Based on an open, fair and clear corporate climate, we create newvalue in a spirit of appropriate competition and fair dealing, continually striv-ing to satisfy customers and other stakeholders and earn their trust.
2. Social Responsibility
We communicate with customers, local communities, shareholders and othermembers of society, conduct appropriate and fair disclosure of corporate infor-mation, comply with laws, regulations, and other rules, and uphold public orderand morals. As good corporate citizens, we strive to correctly understand andrespect local cultures and customs and to actively engage in public interestactivities, especially those that contribute to local community development.
3. Respect for Human Rights
We respect and protect fundamental human and labor rights set out in interna-tional declarations. We reject the use of forced labor or child labor in any form.
4. Global Environmental Conservation
Recognizing that positive involvement in the resolution of environmentalissues is an essential part of a corporation’s social role and activities, we actvoluntarily and proactively to help preserve the global environment.
5. Vibrant Workplaces
We strive to develop the skills of all employees, to provide safe and comfort-able workplaces, and to respect diversity, individuality and differences.
Recognizing top management’s responsibility to embody the spirit of
this Charter, Fujifilm Group executives shall lead by example and pro-mote sound understanding of the Charter both within Group compa-nies and among business partners. They shall strive to continuallytake account of views within and outside the Group, establish effi-cient corporate systems, and foster high ethical standards. In the event of situations that contravene this Charter, top manage-ment shall clearly indicate both within and outside the Group itsapproach to resolving the situation and work to identify its causesand prevent any recurrence. Top management shall take accountabil-ity, promptly and appropriately disclose information, and take strictdisciplinary action when appropriate, including in regard to itself.
5 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 4 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008
Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI ; “Yomogiu ” (Quire 15), Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum
While Genji fled to Akashi, in Suma, those women under his care faced severe financial difficulties. The residence of Suetsumuhana, in particular, who truly believed Genji would return and waited single-mindedly for him, lived
in extreme poverty with her residence in ruins. On a moonlit night after an early summer shower, Genji was attracted by wisteria flowers hanging over a large pine tree and dropped by the dilapidated residence, withKoremitsu brushing away the night dew in front of him. There stood Suetsumuhana’s ramshackle home. Moved by Suetsumuhana’s sincerity, Genji vowed to take care of her the rest of her life.Fujifilm Group Technologies and R&D 6
Initiatives in the Medical Field 8
Initiatives in the Printing Field 12
Stakeholder Dialogue (Eco-printing)
Response to Climate Change 16
CSR Activities in China 20Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
In addition to Fujifilm Group’s products and tech-
nologies, this feature highlights two priority areas ofVISION75, our medium-term management plan,under the theme, “Enhancing Quality of Life,” asupheld in the corporate philosophy. “Response toClimate Change” and “CSR Activities in China” arealso detailed as part of our Medium-term CSR Plan.Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
7 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 6 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Creation of new value by integrating diverse technologies
Fujifilm Group Technologies and R&D
Our aggressive advances in R&D are generating new value and enhancing quality of life 
by integrating and deepening various fundamental and core technologies.
In addition to highly versatile funda-
mental technologies, includingorganic and inorganic materials,analysis, thin-layer formation andprocessing, imaging, software andoptics, which have been cultivatedin the field of photosensitized mate-rials and xerography, the FujifilmGroup possesses core technologiesthat lead to differentiation in termsof performance and cost. Operatingin 13 business fields, the Grouptakes advantage of its productdesign technologies that follow from the integration of thesebasic and core technologies. We apply these technologies tofurther advance and fuse R&D into the areas of highly func-tional materials, medical and life sciences, graphic arts, docu-ments and optical devices to ultimately create new value.The sustainable growth of the Fujifilm Group requires the ongo-ing creation of new businesses, as outlined in VISION75, ourmedium-term management plan, which calls for the in-depthdevelopment and expansion of fundamental and core technolo-gies. To this end, young, mid-level and expert researchers mustact in concert to address the challenges of technological revo-lution by capitalizing on their respective strengths. Fully deploy-ing existing systems, we will aggressively develop innovativetechnologies and products that lead to new ventures, whileaiming to create new areas of focus and evoking within our-selves the passion to generate new ideas.
Highly functional materials
FPD, semiconductors, recording media, 
cosmetics and life science businesses
Fujifilm’s
Core Technologies
Optical devices and systems
Medical and life science equipment business
Optical components
Optical transmission/recordingInformation systems 
and solutions
Document and digital imaging businessHighly functional fine chemicals
Film formation
Liquid crystals
Photoresists
Pigments/dyes
BiosensingFunctional film
Thin-layer formation
Molecular orientation control
Particle dispersion
Emulsification
Microcapsules
CCD devices LasersDigital imaging
Fine-processingOrganic
chemistryInorganic
chemistryPolymer Coating
AnalysisHigh-precision
processingOptics ImagingCore technology development at the Fujifilm Group
The technological presence of the Fujifilm Group
1934 Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. established 1930
1970
1980
2000
1934 Motion picture filmImaging solutions
1948 Color reversal film/still cameras
1950 1951 MicrofilmDocument solutions
1958 FUJITAC (TAC film)1954 Industrial X-ray film
1958 Color negative film
1962 Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. established 1960
1962 Copy machines
1965 Single-8 (8mm motion picture film system) 1965 PS plates (for offset printing), 
tapes for computers1963 Non-carbon paper, videotapes for broadcasting
1969 Micro filters (filtering film)
1975 Full-color copy machines
1976 High-speed color negative film
1982 Motion picture film awarded the Scientific and Technical Academy Award and an Emmy Award
1982 Information processing system over Ethernet: 8000INS
1989 Digital multifunction machine: Able Series
1990 1990 Velvia, color reversal film for professional photographers
1992 A color, full-color digital copy machine
1993 DocuTech, high-speed printing/publishing system
1999 SYNAPSE, medical imaging and information management system,
Sapientia, digital endoscope system1997 DocuWorks, document handling software
2002 Vertical cavity surface emitting laser
2003 Super CCD 
2003 Transnasal endoscope
Digital diagnostic X-ray imaging system: FCR PROFECT CS
2005 New information system: ApeosPort Series
2007 Nutritional supplements: Metabarrier and Oxibarrier2006 Functional skin care cosmetics: F Square i 
Internal care products: F Cube i
2007 Digital Minilab Frontier 700 Series1996 CTP plate, WV film1996 Digital Minilab Frontier, APS system1989 Industrial FCR1989 8mm video cameras1988 Digital still cameras1987 Xero Printer, machine incorporating print and copy functions1983 Digital diagnostic X-ray imaging system: FCR
1984 Minilab system
1984 Floppy disks
1986 QuickSnap, the world’s first one-time-use recyclable camera1977 Prescale (pressure measurement film) 1936 X-ray film1934 Plate-making filmInformation solutions
2001 Fuji Xerox transformed into consolidated subsidiary
2006 Fujifilm Group shifted to holding company structureShinpei Ikenoue
Director, Senior Vice President,
General Manager of the Research & Development Management Headquarters, FUJIFILM Corporation
In April 2006, Fujifilm established its FUJIFILM Advanced
Research Laboratories in Kaisei-town, Kanagawa Prefecture, toconsolidate four previously separate laboratories. The new lab-oratories are playing an important role as a company-wide cen-ter for unifying the development of pioneering basic and coretechnologies. We will strive to quickly create new businessesand products, led by the Advanced Research Laboratories, toopen future opportunities by conducting R&D investments onmore focused areas.Fuji Xerox will launch a new urban R&D base, nicknamed,“CITY: Collaborative Innovation Tower in Yokohama,” in MinatoMirai 21, Kanagawa Prefecture (scheduled completion: March2010). With this new site, the company’s R&D operations willbe consolidated into the existing location in Ebina and the newsite in Yokohama. Fuji Xerox will take on the challenge of gen-erating and delivering innovative value to customers by restruc-turing its R&D system with these two bases as the hub.The Fujifilm Group ’s new research system
Fujifilm Group’s fundamental technologies 
and applications
Fujifilm nutritional supplements, 
Metabarrier and Oxibarrier
Core technologies gained in the field of film 
lead the way to distinctive new productsFuji Xerox LED printhead technology
Smaller, lighter products offer high image qualitywith little or no noise or vibrationFOCUS : Research results in 2007
In October 2007, Fujifilm launched Metabarrier and Oxibarrier multi-
supplements for human health. Both supplements benefited fromcutting-edge technologies for delivering beneficial ingredient todesired part of body based on Fujifilm’s unique concept of FTD tech-nology. Metabarrier contains salacia, a plant that has long beenused in India and Sri Lanka. Salacia is now attracting attention for itsinfluences on sugar and fat properties as well as its ability toimprove the body’s internal function by bringing nutrients to benefi-cial bacteria in the intestines. Fujifilm successfully formulated highlyconcentrated salacia with stable quality. Astaxanthin contained inOxibarrier is a natural ingredient, a type of carotenoid that is 1,000times more effective than coenzyme Q10 in its antioxidant activities(according to Fujifilm research). Our original nano-emulsificationtechnology enabled the formulation of astaxanthin, along with itsprotective membrane into a water-soluble powder that is readilyabsorbed into the body.An exposure system in xerographic printers and copy machines useseither a laser ROS (raster output scanner) or a printhead that utilizesLEDs (light-emitting diodes) as a light source. While the LED print-head system provides the advantages of significantly smaller sizeand noise-free operation, there remains an issue of image streakingcompared to a laser ROS system. Fuji Xerox successfully produced acompact LED printhead with high image quality by developing aunique technology to maintain uniform light exposure and 1,200 dpiself-scanning LEDs that reduce the amount of wiring. As a result,Fuji Xerox reduced the space required for one paper tray and devel-oped copy machines that also incorporate a finisher without chang-ing the overall size.The development of this LED printhead opened the way for officemachines that adopt both digital screen technology (MACS) todeliver the tone reproduction of high-end machines and an imageprocessing technology (IE/EE) to reproduce smooth, high-resolutionletters and lines, for high image quality equivalent to or better thanlaser ROS systems.
R&D expenses by operating segment
2004 2005 2006 2007 (Fiscal year)05001,0001,5002,000 (Billions of yen)
41.9
54.4
71.732.7
67.9
81.577.0
78.521.516.9
93.4
77.2Imaging solutions Document solutions Information solutions
FUJIFILM Advanced Research Laboratories in Kaisei-town, Kanagawa Prefecture (left)
Fuji Xerox R&D base, CITY (artist’s rendering), under construction in Minato Mirai 21 (right)
Metabarrier featuring highly concentrated salacia with stable quality (left) andOxibarrier that delivers astaxanthin to desired part of body (right)Size of laser system (upper left) compared to LED printhead system (lower right)(artist’s rendering)Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
9 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 8 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Contributing to society by applying advanced technologies to medical care
Initiatives in the Medical Field
We are improving the quality and efficiency of medical care worldwide through cutting-edge diagnostic system solutions, 
which fully integrate our proprietary, high-quality medical imaging technology with advanced networking capabilities.
Japan, recognized as a country with advanced medical care, is
experiencing a surging awareness of health issues across thegeneral population as well as rising social strains in the wake ofsuch problems as an overall shortage and uneven distribution ofdoctors, a falling birthrate and an aging population. Medical carein this environment must support the early detection and treat-ment of disease, and diagnostic imaging is a tool for meetingthese needs. On the other hand, higher performance diagnosticimaging systems as well as the widespread application of newexamination tools such as CT, PET, MRI and electronic endo-scopes are generating burgeoning volumes of patient data.Consequently, the health care environment in Japan is increas-ingly drawing upon database technologies for sharing diagnosticimaging data and leveraging network capabilities to enhancetelemedicine services.As a provider of comprehensive diagnostic imaging solutions,Fujifilm is aggressively supplying systems and equipment to thefront line of medical care. SYNAPSE, our medical imaging andinformation management system, which commands the top shareof the domestic market, and C@Rna, a medical network service,play key roles. Beyond their function as comprehensive diagnos-tic systems that archive, integrate and network medical images,they also improve the efficiency of medical facilities operations.Furthermore, our telemedicine network service enhances thequality of local health care and supports new medical options,such as simplifying the process for gaining second opinions.By taking advantage of the proprietary technical capabilities ithas built up over the years, including image processing and preci-sion optical technologies, Fujifilm has actively released variousmedical systems and equipment. These new products causemuch less physical discomfort for the patient and are more envi-ronmentally friendly. In addition to the worldwide market-leadingFCR (Fuji Computed Radiography) digital X-ray diagnostic imagingsystem and our electronic endoscope system, we have recentlybeen working to further expand the field of diagnostic imagingwith a fully digital ultrasonograph system and diagnostic radio-pharmaceuticals. Linking these with SYNAPSE will provide power-ful solutions for improving the efficiency and speed ofexaminations and diagnosis with even greater precision. Fujifilmintends for these advances to further the quality of medical carearound the globe as well as in Japan.Supporting telemedicine and improving efficiency 
in examinations and diagnosis with superior imaging technology
Since first launching X-ray film in
1936, the Fujifilm Group has beenengaged in the medical business formore than seven decades. Currentannual sales from our MedicalSystems Business, including the LifeScience Business, has grown to¥290 billion (fiscal 2007), nearly10% of total Group sales.Under VISION75, our medium-termmanagement plan, we intend for thisbusiness to achieve ¥300 billion ormore in sales in fiscal 2008. To this
end, we are committed to focusing Group resources in this areaas a core business. We are developing the division into threeprimary areas: examinations (using FUJI DRI-CHEM systems ordiagnostic radiopharmaceuticals); diagnosis (medical imaginginvolving X-rays, ultrasonographs or endoscopes); and treat-ment (with therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals). Drawing on thestrength of our global sales locations, we will deliver value tocustomers and contribute to the establishment of a far-reach-ing medical infrastructure.Fujifilm Group’s Medical Systems Business
FCR XG-1
(previous model)FCR
CAPSULADifference
kWh unit ⁄ year
kgCO 2⁄U n i t & y e a r
Energy savings Cost savings
tonCO 2⁄y e a r
Yen⁄Unit&year
Yen ⁄ year—
—
4,700
18,500
222 million160
75
900
3,500
42 million1,000
470
5,600
22,000
264 millionMorphological
Diagnostic
ImagingX-ray diagnosis
Functional
Diagnostic
ImagingFCR, digital x-ray 
diagnostic imaging system
FAZONE M,
digital sonography
diagnostic imaging system
Electronic endoscope
RadiopharmaceuticalsSYNAPSE, medical imaging and 
information management system
NEXUS, endoscope, sonography and pathology system
Capsule endoscope
(Photo courtesy of Given Imaging Ltd.)X-ray diagnostic system
FCR, which boasts top share in the global market, draws on 
more than 20 years of technological development and expertise. It enhances the efficiency of diagnostic imaging and the quality of medical care by providing high-resolution image quality and greater processing capacity.
Ultrasonograph systemWe are enhancing ultrasonograph centered on FAZONE M with 
convertible functions, which reduce physical stress on the 
patient and reliably produce high-definition images.
Endoscopy system (FUJINON Corporation)
We are pursuing more robust diagnostic solutions in the field of 
gastroenterological endoscopy by providing innovative products, led by transnasal endoscopes and double-balloon endoscopes. We have also undertaken strategic cooperation with a capsule endoscope maker (April 2007).
Nuclear medicine diagnosis (FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co. Ltd.) 
Nuclear medicine diagnosis using radiopharmaceuticals can capture functional changes in organs that occur before morpho-logical changes appear due to disease. Functional diagnostic imaging is emerging as an increasingly important tool for early detection and treatment.Medical imaging and information management systemSYNAPSE, the leader in the domestic market, integrates and 
manages over a network all diagnostic images in medical 
facilities, including those from radiology, endoscopy, pathology and cardiovascular departments.
FCR CAPSULA is significantly smaller than the previous model. With an energy-saving design, it brings down electric-ity costs by ¥18,500 a year per customer and reduces CO
2 
emissions by 80%.
Synergy from Fujifilm and Fuji XeroxMedical DMS project 
Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox are conducting joint research efforts through their medical DMS (document management solution) project. The project is focused on developing a medical support system that unifies the management of massive volumes of documentation and data including patient charts in hospitals. The system is expected to facilitate the systematic, unified management of images and documents from initial readings through diagnosis and treatment.Sonography diagnosis
Nuclear medicine diagnosisCustomers benefit from FCR CAPSULAEndoscope diagnosis
Worldwide sales locations (Medical Systems Business)
(As of March 2008)
Local subsidiaries Sales distributorsBusiness domains in medical care
Prevention Examinations Diagnosis TreatmentPostoperative
careRehabilitation
ɾDRI-CHEM System
ɾDiagnostic 
radiopharma-
ceuticalsɾX-ray imaging
ɾUltrasound imaging
ɾEndoscopic imagingɾTherapeutic
radiopharma-ceuticalsToshiaki Suzuki
Corporate Vice President,
General Manager of Medical Systems Business Division, FUJIFILM Corporation
Constructing an extensive medical infrastructure
that broadly contributes to societyImproved breast cancer detection through FCR
Digital Mammography CAD
Fujifilm started early on doing research into image processing
to support breast cancer diagnosis. The company has helped toraise the efficiency and quality of diagnostic imaging by devel-oping an FCR-based digital mammography system combininghigh-definition reading technology suitable for breast cancerscreening with our own cutting-edge image processing tech-nologies. The number of those undergoing breast cancerscreening has been rising, requiring massive diagnostic work byphysicians. Fujifilm developed and introduced FCR DigitalMammography CAD, a computer-assisted breast cancer detec-tion support system, in February 2008. Fujifilm became the firstdomestic manufacturer in Japan to obtain approval for a CADsystem under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law from the Ministryof Health, Labor and Welfare. Fujifilm has also developed a pro-prietary detection algorithm for this system based on a wealthof cases from within Japan and has been able to achieve a highrate of detection for areas showing characteristics of breastcancer, including microcalcifications and masses. A high detec-tion rate supports physicians in their readings of images. Today, an estimated one out of every 20 to 30 Japanesewomen develops breast cancer, the incidence of which is ris-ing every year around the world. However, in addition to self-examinations, regular mammography screening can detectbreast cancer at an early stage, when 90% of cases can becured. Fujifilm will continue to strengthen its efforts toimprove the early detection of breast cancer and providegreater accuracy in diagnosis.
Since 2003, the FujifilmGroup has been a steadfastsupporter of the PinkRibbon Campaign, whichraises public awareness ofthe importance of earlydetection, diagnosis andtreatment of breast cancer.
Fujifilm and FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd. actively participated inPink Ribbon Festivals held on October 7, 13 and 28, 2007, inTokyo, Sendai, and Kobe, respectively. In Tokyo and Kobe, thecompanies served as special sponsors for the Pink RibbonSmile Walk 2007, the festival’s main event, and both compa-nies cooperated in the Sendai event. Around the same time, we held “Pink, Pink, Pink!,” a photoexhibition of 12 leading photographers, at FUJIFILM SQUARE,the complex showroom in the Tokyo Midtown. The exhibitionattracted a large number of visitors and heightened their aware-ness of breast cancer and the Pink Ribbon Campaign. We also held a seminar for Fujifilm employees to promoteawareness of breast cancer in the Tokyo area on September11, 2007, featuring Ms. Tomoko Nakanishi of the AsahiShimbun Company, who has encouraged the participation ofmany major organizations in the Pink Ribbon Campaign, andDr. Hideko Hiramatsu, Hiramatsu Lady’s Clinic. Over 200 menand women attended the seminar. 
In fiscal 2007, the Pink Ribbon Campaign was also actively
conducted overseas. FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc. and FUJIFILMMedical Systems U.S.A., Inc., in collaboration with LongsDrugs, promoted breast cancer awareness at the annualLongs Drugs LPGA Tournament as well as through salescampaigns for QuickSnap Pink that carried the “Images ofHealth” message throughout October in more than 470Longs Drugs stores in California, Hawaii and Nevada. FUJI-FILM U.S.A. donated 10% of sales (US$2,000) to theNational Breast Cancer Foundation. The companies havebeen continuing to raise public awareness of the life-savingimportance of mammography to detect breast cancerthrough a website that is designed to motivate over one mil-lion women to get a mammogram.
The development of our transnasal endoscope was made possi-
ble by fully leveraging FUJINON’s lens and precision opticaltechnologies and Fujifilm’s Super CCD technology. The endo-scope tip, with a diameter of 5.9 mm, can be inserted throughthe nose. Patients examined with this device experience muchless discomfort, such as nausea during insertion, comparedwith conventional endoscopes that are inserted through themouth, and are able to continue communicating with physi-cians during the examination. Consequently, these units havebecome very popular with both physicians and patients andhave already been introduced into a large number of medicalfacilities worldwide. Because its thin scope facilitates observation of target areasfrom many different angles, the transnasal endoscope is suit-able for diagnostic examinations of narrow organs, such as theesophagus, in addition to the stomach. Recently, ourtransnasal endoscopes have also been used for the earlydetection of lesions in areas ranging from the mouth to thestomach including cancers of the throat and the esophagus aswell as reflux esophagitis.FICE (FUJI Intelligent Chromo Endoscopy: Imaging diagnosisbased on spectral estimation technology) improves the accu-racy of diagnostic endoscopy. Through optical image process-ing, FICE facilitates ready identification of subtle lesions thatare difficult to detect through ordinary endoscopic exams,including the condition of tissue and appearance of blood ves-sels under mucosa. Fujifilm is currently working on jointresearch efforts with physicians to verify the benefits of thistechnology in clinical settings and establishes best practices indiagnostic methods.By developing products that combine these advanced optical,image sensor and image processing technologies, FUJINON andFujifilm are providing vital support to the diagnostic work ofphysicians, reducing the physical discomfort for patients, andfacilitating the early detection and treatment of lesions. In addi-tion, the companies will continue to contribute to the advanceof diagnostic science utilizing image processing in cooperationwith leading-edge medical institutions in Japan and overseas.
Aiding in the early detection of lesions, 
transnasal endoscopes support diagnosis using FICE
Saving more lives from breast cancer with the Pink Ribbon CampaignURL Pink Ribbon Campaign
http://fms.fujifilm.co.jp/fms/mam/html/smile_walk2007.html(in Japanese)URL “Images of Health” http://www.imagesofhealth.comRelated page Page 21: Pink Ribbon Campaign and technical supportfor mammography screening in China
Comparison of FICE image and standard image
Utilization of FICE highlights area surrounding the inflamed tissues and blood vessels ofthe esophagus, allowing precise observation and diagnosis.Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life Initiatives in the Medical Field
11 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 10 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008
Before detection using CADOperating the CAD display
After detection using CAD
Corporate TV commercial expresses 
our commitment to contribute to society through technology—“You can change the world one by one.”
“Mammography” 
The features of mammography are explained in aneasy-to-understand manner using small ladybugsas a metaphor for microcalcifications that might beearly-stage breast cancer lesions which cannot bedetected by touch.
“Endoscope”
This version illustrates the flexible and smoothoperability of FUJINON’s transnasal endoscope witha tip diameter of 5.9 mm.Pink Ribbon Campaign overseas
URL http://and-fujifilm.jp (in Japanese)TOPICSince September 22, 2007, we have been broadcasting Japan-wide a series of
television commercials focusing on the technologies of the Fujifilm Group. Thecommercials broadly express our corporate stance to contribute to societythrough our own advanced technologies in various fields, particularly medicalcare. The first and second productions were titled, “Mammography” and“Endoscope” respectively and include appearances by our employees. The com-mercials can also be viewed on our website.“Pink, Pink, Pink!” photo exhibition (left), Employees attending Breast Cancer Screening
Seminar (right)
Pink Ribbon FestivalStandard image Image processed with FICE
Pink Ribbon Campaign display tent at the LongsDrugs LPGA Tournament (above), Website callingfor one million women in the U.S. to schedulebreast cancer examinations (right)Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
13 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 12 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Advanced technologies to reduce the environmental burden
Initiatives in the Printing Field
Fully leveraging advanced technologies to reduce environmental burdens associated with expansion of the production, while meeting
growing demand for “Computer-to-Plate (CTP)” plates by reinforcing our production system to ensure a stable supply of products.Fujifilm has been involved for many years in the development,
manufacture and sales of a broad array of printing materialsand equipment, including graphic arts film, PS and CTP platesfor offset printing, plate setters, and various prepress software.We are particularly reinforcing our production and sales systemto meet rising demand for CTP plates toward boosting ourworldwide market share to 40%.
Vast quantities of lithographic film had previously been consumedin the prepress process for offset printing. The advent of the DTPsystem enabled the processing of digitized text and images onthe computer to produce the completed data. With this system,efficiency was improved, and the only film we needed to developwas the final film. This procedure is called Computer-to-Film(CTF). More recently, the development of CTF technology, whichfacilitates the direct output of digital data to prepress film, hasopened the way for the common application of Computer-to-Plate(CTP) methods for directly outputting data to a printing platewithout requiring lithographic film at all. This technologicaladvance reduced CO
2emissions by about two-thirds from a quar-
ter century ago when massive quantities of films and photo-graphic papers were used (refer to diagram below).
Fujifilm took the next step in filmless CTP with the creation of aCTP plate that does not require development processing at all,eliminating the developer effluent and CO
2emissions associ-
ated with this stage of the printing process. Looking ahead, wewill focus on improving the quality of processless CTP andencourage its widespread application as part of our efforts toaddress environmental concerns and reduce the risks andworkload associated with handling chemicals. In addition, wewill continue to pursue further technological innovation in thefield of printing to contribute to society by reducing the associ-ated environmental burdens. This report itself was produced using the state-of-the-artprocessless CTP systems.Evolution of CTP (Computer-to-Plate)
Reducing environmental burden through technological innovation
Workflow prior to DTPProgress of plate making over a quarter century and 
reduced environmental burden (CO 2)
Photo
typsetting
TypesetterColor
separation
Scanner/ 
Graphic arts camera
Processor Process camera ProcessorPhotographic
paper
developmentBlockcopyFilm
developmentProcessorFilm
development
Page make-up
Film making Image input / text input   Preparation of printing data
Scanner, digital camera, PC
Image input / text input   Preparation of printing data
Scanner, digital camera, PC
Image input / text input   Preparation of printing data
Scanner, digital camera, PCPS plate Lithographic film
Processing/coating Developing
DevelopingLithographic filmSilver recovery
after
incinerating film100
53
With CTP, film became unnecessary. 
CO2 emissions are reduced to about one-third the levels of 
using lithographic film and by 30% compared to CTF.With DTP, film is used only for final outputting.
With processless CTP, environmental burden associated with processing, such as the impact of chemical substances, is also reduced. CO
2 is reduced by 2% compared to CTP.Note 1: Figures in the graph represent CO 2 emissions indexed against workflow prior to DTP as 100%
Note 2: As aluminum cannot be reprocessed for use in PS plates, a recycling write-off 
in cascade recycling is not considered.
Aluminum plate
Developing
final
positive film
Processor Printing frameDeveloping
plate
ProcessorPrinting
Printing press Imagesetter
Exposing 
digital data 
to plate
CTP setterDeveloping
plate
ProcessorPrinting
Printing press
Exposing 
digital data 
to plate
CTP setterPrinting
Printing pressDeveloping
final
positive film
ProcessorExposing
from film
to plate
Exposing
from film
to platePrinting frameDeveloping
plate
ProcessorPrinting
Printing press
Workflow (CTF) after DTP
Workflow of current CTP
Workflow of processless CTP
0% 50% 100%Photograph
Manuscript 
37
35Prior to DTP, process 
requires lithographic film and photographic paper with an area about four times larger than a single PS plate.Global deployment of the Graphic Systems Business
Production bases Sales bases (local subsidiaries) DistributorsBeyond its support for communica-
tions such as publishing and news-papers, the printing industry is alsovital for economic and day-to-dayactivities in modern life includingareas such as packaging, financingand electronics. Thus, printing is anessential industry for enhancingquality of life, a fundamental commit-ment of our corporate philosophy.
Fujifilm has positioned its GraphicSystems Business as a priority ven-ture that provides printing equip-
ment, materials, and software for the printing industry. Tosatisfy the needs of customers for producing a wide variety ofprinted materials, we are aggressively investing in R&D and pro-duction equipment in addition to engaging in M&As. For exam-ple, worldwide demand is rising for CTP plates, which are corematerials for offset printing. Fujifilm has established four globalbases for the production of offset printing plates anchored inJapan, the U.S., Europe and China, and is implementing globalservice operations to ensure the stable and efficient supply ofhigh-quality products.We intend to achieve a 40% share of the world market throughan additional investment of approximately ¥15 billion to expandour manufacturing line in Europe, where a new one will beginoperating in 2010, and by aggressively increasing supply to therapidly growing markets in the “BRICs” and “NEXT11,” emerg-ing economies. And to keep pace with anticipated growth in thedigital printing market, we acquired the Sericol Group, whichcommands the top share of the market for UV ink for industrialink jet printers, and Dimatix, the leading manufacturer of indus-trial inkjet printer heads. We also bolstered our R&D related tocutting-edge ink jet technologies by establishing the AdvancedMarking Research Laboratories. We intend to further expandour digital printing business in cooperation with Fuji Xerox.Reinforcing our operating bases with 
an eye on the future
Related page Page 57: Stakeholder Dialogue
Books, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, securities/bonds, cards, business
forms (records), wrapping paper, printed products for construction (wall paper),metal printing (beverage cans), POP displays, printed-circuit boards, etc.Examples of printed materials and 
applications of printing technologyNobuaki Inoue
Director, Corporate Vice President,
General Manager of Graphic Systems Business Division, FUJIFILM CorporationFeature: Enhancing Quality of Life Initiatives in the Printing Field
15 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 14 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008FOCUS : Stakeholder Dialogue
TOPIC
The PX5000 Print Server, launched in February 2007, is highly
regarded in the printing industry. This print server controls digital on-demand printing, from color management to output process. Fujifilmand Fuji Xerox had previously independently offered different printservers with distinctive features. The PX5000 Print Server was bornby fusing these features from both sides. The PX5000 Print Serverrealizes the advantages of Group synergy in that the integration oftechnologies delivers high performance to customers while curbingdevelopment costs. In addition, the server is sold by both companies.Print server development project based on 
the synergy between Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox“What Fujifilm can do to encourage eco-printing”
Participant comments ● External participant  ● Internal participant
Members of the development project
DocuColor 5000 Digital Press from
Fuji Xerox, incorporating the PX5000Print ServerOn March 6, 2008, we held a stakeholder dialogue under the theme
of encouraging the widespread use of eco-printing. Participantsincluded two external experts (Mr. Jun Okuyama, Executive Directorof Eco-Insatsu-Kenkyu-kai, and Mr. Katsumi Kitanou, Chairman ofJapan Printing News Co., Ltd.) and six employees of the FujifilmGroup (Fujifilm, FUJIFILM Graphic Systems and FUJIFILMPresentec). Participants discussed eco-printing from their respec-tive positions as those who had actually placed and received print-ing orders; those who developed, produced and sold prepressmaterials and processing equipment and software; and those whoproduced printed materials.●● Customers cannot request eco-printing since there is no clear criteria for what
eco-printing is.
● The reality is that since customers demand cost, speed and quality, eco-printing
does not always meet their requirements, and it is difficult for printing companies to
recommend eco-printing.
● There is a need to establish a business model for broadening the use of eco-
printing in the market.
● Because the printing industry is based on orders received, it is more effective to
encourage customers to choose eco-printing rather than expecting too much fromthe vendors. Therefore, Eco-Insatsu-Kenkyu-kai promotes the concept of eco-print-ing to customers. 
●● It is important to have environmentally friendly production processes as well as
paper and ink. Ideally, eco-printing should be understood from four points of view:environmentally friendly materials, production processes with low environmentalburden, the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle), and energy savings. 
● The major challenge in the printing process is taking action in regard to reducing
emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). This requires collaboration amongvarious printing material manufacturers, including ink makers, in addition to effortsby printing companies.
● It is important to clearly display recycling information on printed materials at the
point they are about to be discarded. There would be no point for eco-printing if itdid not lead to reusing resources. 
● It would be difficult to spread processless CTP plates simply based on explaining
the products and their environmental performance. There is a need for improvingworkflows for easier use as well as for recommendations that include establishing aworksite environment in which it is easy and efficient to introduce them.
● Fujifilm Group has extensive capabilities for developing, manufacturing and sell-
ing total systems, from prepress materials and chemicals to software for printingequipment. I expect the Group to demonstrate and deliver the value of eco-printingto the market from a broad perspective. 
● It is important to start in-house before trying to raise public awareness. We our-
selves should promote eco-printing in the Group with clear standards for in-houseprinting and placing orders outside the Group.
Two recommendations were made to FUJIFILM Holdings as a result of this dialogue:
1. Develop a set standard for eco-printing that serves as a model for society 2. Do not just provide environmentally friendly products to printing companies; seek to make a difference in the printing industry and society by broadening the use of eco-printingBased on these two recommendations, FUJIFILM Holdings has been formulating eco-printing standards for placing printing orders.SummaryAluminum recycling is generally believed to have reached an
advanced stage. However, the substrata of PS and CTP platesfor offset printing require high-purity aluminum for sophisti-cated printability, and as a result recycled aluminum cannot beused. Therefore, the Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory had imple-mented “cascade recycling” in which several hundred tons ofwaste aluminum generated every month were used for applica-tions that did not require high purity.However aluminum refining consumes massive amounts ofelectricity. Fujifilm, believing the cyclical use of aluminum—long considered to be impossible—could lead to substantialreductions in CO
2emissions, conducted years of research
into closed-loop recycling technologies, in which waste alu-minum is recycled into a level of purity suitable for producinghigh-quality PS and CTP plates. The technology reached com-mercial viability in October 2007.The challenge is that once aluminum has been mixed with tracemetals into a low-purity alloy, it cannot be restored to high-purity by removing the trace metals. Consequently, continuedcascade recycling ultimately leads to a flood of low-purity alu-minum that cannot be re-used. At the same time, aluminum, like other metals, is also becom-ing the focus of a battle for resources in the wake of risingdemand in emerging countries. Therefore, this business is evenmore important as a means to conserve the limited supply ofhigh-purity aluminum resources for the sustainable develop-ment of the printing industry as a vital component of everydaylife. Fujifilm will continue to seize the initiative by taking thenext steps for protecting the environment and safeguarding thesustainable development of society.Significantly reducing CO 2
Closed-loop recycling system for 
waste aluminum from PS and CTP plates
● The use of recycled aluminum in the production process reduces 
CO2 emissions from metal refining to the production of PS and CTP 
plates by 74%.
● Fujifilm expects CO2 emission  reductions of up to 65,000 tons 
annually by introducing closed-loop recycling for all waste aluminum 
from PS and CTP plates generated in the Yoshida-Minami Factory. This level of reduction is equivalent to 87% of CO
2 emitted from the plant in 
2006. We reduced CO 2 emissions by 40,000 tons in 2007.Flow of closed-loop 
aluminum recycling system
Waste PS plate
(Waste aluminum)PS plate production
Shipment of
PS platesYoshida-Minami Factory
Aluminum coil manufacturer Aluminum refiner
Aluminum coil
(New bullion + recycled bullion)Aluminum alloy manufacturer
CastingMelting
Recycled bullionNew bullion
Establishing basic technologies to realize 99.5% purity—Demonstrating 
a “We Can!” attitude for overcoming every obstacleCOMMENTS
It took about four years to successfully find partner companies to
manufacture recycled bullion, including the preparation time in suchareas as technology building. Manufacturing PS and CTP platesinvolves 13 types of 99.5% pure aluminum that vary slightly in theircomposition with trace metals. However, toward the goal of obtain-ing 99.5% high-purity recycled aluminum, an extremely exacting levelof control, we had already established our own basic technology,which had transcended the conventional approaches of aluminummanufacturers. This was a great advantage for us as it enabled us todemonstrate the genuine potential for success with this project. Through ongoing discussions, we addressed concerns over qualityassurance and prepared a system for overcoming barriers such asensuring the profitability of alloy manufacturers. Furthermore, coilmanufacturers involved in the production process following the man-ufacture of the alloy generally exhibited a profound distrust in thequality of recycled bullion. To resolve this distrust, we presentedobjective data verifying the actual successes of the project. We alsorepeatedly emphasized the importance of this recycling project forthe future to protect the environment and as something that we sim-ply had to do as partners using aluminum, a nonrenewable resource.Despite the repeated process of trial and error, we now feel morestrongly than ever that we have accomplished meaningful results.
(Center front) Yoshio Ogishi, (back from
left) Masakazu Osada, Naoki Yoshikawa,Tooru Yamazaki (Engineering Manager),Production Division, Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami FactoryRelated page Page 57: Stakeholder DialogueFeature: Enhancing Quality of Life
17 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 16 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Group strategies for promoting the prevention of global warming
Response to Climate Change
In addition to shifting to alternative energy sources and improving production efficiency, the Fujifilm Group pursues strategies
to conserve energy in offices and laboratories and reduce CO 2emissions related to distribution activities and product use.
Global Warming Prevention Committee 
to ensure we meet our goals
We have set up the Global WarmingPrevention Committee as our top-level decision-making body for pre-venting global warming. Thecommittee consists of executiveofficers who are in charge of divisionoperations, including production,production technology, distribution and general administration.Led by our six major domestic chemical factories*
1in Japan, other
organizational units, such as production sites, the distribution divi-sion, Head Offices and the research division, also set up targetsand energy-saving groups, issue reports and discuss their activi-ties at Global Warming Prevention Committee meetings.
Complete visualization of energy consumption in energy-saving activities I
n addition to ongoing efforts, including the introduction of
energy-saving equipment, process improvements and the ther-mal analysis of processes using energy flow diagrams, we haveestablished a system for obtaining and visually summarizingdetailed energy consumption data for each building and process.These activities contribute to facilitating a more thorough analy-sis toward rolling out more effective energy-saving measures.The first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol began in2008 and the Fujifilm Group, with operations worldwide, isproactively addressing the issues of climate change. As we sig-nificantly revise the content of our business, we are promotingactivities to prevent global warming from a medium- to long-term perspective based on national and international laws andregulations as well as related industry regulations. We wereamong the first to make capital investments and pursue alterna-tive energies. Focused on domestic facilities where emissionsare concentrated, we have achieved significant CO
2reductions. 
Looking ahead, we will continue to reduce CO 2emissions, set-
ting clear targets and ultimately cut energy intensity by 30%from levels in fiscal 1990 and lower CO
2emissions intensity by
40% in fiscal 2012 for our six major domestic chemical facto-ries*
1. In particular, we will draw upon our experience in imple-
menting a variety of measures to help prevent global warming inlight of the rise in CO
2emissions as a result of increased pro-
duction volumes in new businesses, including flat panel displaymaterials, as well as overseas business development and expan-sion through M&As. In this feature, we will highlight measureswe have carried out in every aspect of our corporate activitiesand their impact on addressing climate change. 
CO2emissions from our six major domestic chemical factories *1
account for 57% of the emissions from the entire Fujifilm Group (ona consolidated basis) and 78% of the emissions from its domesticoperations. These factories took steps to introduce natural gas andequipment for cogeneration and energy conservation as well asprocess improvements, leading to an overall savings of approxi-mately ¥4.6 billion in the two years ending in fiscal 2007. They arecurrently expected to substantially exceed their initial targets forfiscal 2010, which call for more than a 15% lowering of energyintensity and decreases of over 25% in CO
2emissions intensity
from 1990 levels. 
In addition to this forecast, we have concluded that we mustaim for even greater improvements, particularly given our plansto increase production along with future business expansion.And much more must be done to combat global warming.Consequently, we significantly raised our targets for cuttingenergy intensity by 30% and CO
2emissions intensity by 40% by
fiscal 2012 against 1990 levels, starting in fiscal 2007.Addressing climate change through 
the implementation of all possible measures
Activities at production sitesCurrent status and future opportunities
In fiscal 2007, our production levels increased by 1.8 times,
energy consumption by 1.6 times and CO 2emissions by 1.5
times (against levels in fiscal 1990), primarily due to the expan-sion of our new flat panel display material business ( ■color
area in the graphs on page 16). We intend to reduce energyconsumption by introducing energy-saving equipment and pro-cedures while systematically curbing CO
2emissions in convert-ing to natural gas. CO 2emissions from the six major chemical
factories*1peaked in fiscal 2006 and then began to decline. Of
these factories, four ( ■) are expected to reduce CO 2emissions
in fiscal 2008 below fiscal 1990 levels. Overseas sites will workto reduce dependence on fossil fuels by utilizing biomass energyand alternative sources. We intend to continue reducing CO
2
emissions at home and abroad as our contribution to bringingdown the release of greenhouse gases across the globe.
Energy consumption (six major domestic chemical factories)
CO2 emissions (six major domestic chemical factories)1990 2000 2006 2007 2012 (Fiscal year)
1990 2000 2006 2007 2012 (Fiscal year)
Fujifilm Kanagawa Factories (Ashigara and Odawara sites), Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory and Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory
FUJIFILM Opto Materials and FUJIFILM Kyushu (main factories for new business)0
020,000 (TJ) Energy intensity (%)
(tons) CO2 emissions intensity (%)15,000
10,000
5,000
200,000400,000600,000800,0001 ,000,000
204060801000
0100
75
50
25100
100929087
70
6097
87
80Representative efforts at production sites
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.
Efforts to reduce greenhouse gases
Case Study: Project (A), using methane gas from landfills more efficientlyTOPICFUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. in Greenwood,
South Carolina, USA, is implementing a broad rangeof efforts to reduce greenhouse gases. Its factoriesare expected to cut CO
2emissions by 15,000
tons/year as a direct result of efforts, includingProject (A) outlined below. This represents approxi-mately 13% of all factory CO
2emissions; the CO 2
price is approximately € 330,000 ⁄ year* .
Before the project
Methane gas from landfills would be released 
into the atmosphere unless captured and utilized.
US factoryAfter the project
Collecting 
methane gas Preprocessing
Methane gas
in the landfill 3.2-mile
methane gas pipelineUS factory
Natural gas pipeline Natural gas pipeline
About US$280,000 About US$340,000
About €220,000 ⁄ year About €110,000 ⁄ yearAbout US$620,000
About €330,000 ⁄ year
*Calculated based on the EU-ETS price as of March 20, 2008: €21.9 ⁄ CO 2 (tons)Project (B): Project to improve 
boiler energy usage through 
such steps as changing control systemsTotal of (A) + (B) Project (A): Project to use 
landfill methane gas efficiently
InvestmentCO2 reductions About 10,000 tons ⁄ year
(Total GHG that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere: about 90,000 tons ⁄ year of CO
2)About 5,000 tons ⁄ year About 15,000 tons ⁄ year
Cost efficiency of CO 2 reduction**Calculated based on the EU-ETS price as of March 20, 2008: €21.9 ⁄ CO 2(tons)
Global Warming Prevention Committee
TOPICFujinomiya Factory introduced natural gas cogeneration
equipment* (industrial power plant with generating
capacity of 17,250kWh) that facilitates more efficientenergy use, with operation starting in June 2007.Electricity generated by this equipment accounts forabout one-third of the total energy used in the factory.Along with the natural gas equipment the factory hadalready been operating, this additional capacityincreased the ratio of natural gas to 50%, therebyreducing CO
2emissions by 13% compared to fiscal
2006. At the same time, the improved efficiency ofpower generation led to reduced fuel costs.Representative efforts at production sites
Fujinomiya Factory, FUJIFILM Corporation
Introduction of natural gas 
cogeneration equipment
*Calculated based on the EU-ETS price as of March 20, 2008: €21.9 ⁄ CO 2 (tons)Capital investment
Annual CO 2 reduction
CO2 price (estimated*)
Annual fuel cost reduction¥2.5 billion47,000 tons¥160 million¥900 million
*High-efficiency system for energy conservation that provides steam and electricity
used in the factory in balanced way with natural gas as a fuel.Natural gas cogeneration equipmentDual-Burner System
(methane + natural gas)
Related page Page 87: Environmental Aspects
*1Six major chemical factories: Fujifilm Kanagawa Factories (Ashigara and Odawara sites), Fujifilm Fujinomiya
Factory, Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory, FUJIFILM Opto Materials Co., Ltd. and FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.Approximately 30% of natural gas will
be replaced by methane (to be com-pleted by April 2009). This projectaffords three major advantages:
1. Reducing the bad odor associated
with landfill emissions
2. Reducing the volume of smog gener-
ated in the region and alleviating theimpact on climate change associatedwith methane gas (the impact ofmethane on global warming is 21times greater than CO
2)
3. Reducing the use of natural gas (more
efficient use of methane gas releasedfrom a landfill.)Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life Response to Climate Change
19 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 18 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008FUJIFILM Advanced Research Laboratories (Kaisei-town,
Kanagawa Prefecture), which opened in April 2006, hasinvested more than ¥1.6 billion through fiscal 2007 in the fol-lowing 12 energy-saving investments, achieving substantialCO
2 reductions* .
The Fujifilm Group joined Team Minus 6% and is developing a
variety of activities to increase awareness (Cool Biz, BlackIllumination and others). These efforts include turning off lightsduring lunch breaks and powering off PCs when leaving desks.
In terms of facilities, the Head Office at Tokyo Midtown is striv-ing to avoid using any more electricity than necessary throughsuch measures as introducing automatic lights-out during lunchbreaks and motion sensors. And, the Head Office at Nishiazabureduced CO
2emissions by 128 tons annually (valued at
¥440,000* ) by adopting inverter controls for cooling water
pumps and heat exchangers, controlling the number of cooling
fans, and introducing water-saving toilets, energy-saving eleva-tors and a Building Energy Management System (BEMS).Contribution to carbon fundsSince 2005, Fujifilm has been a member of the World Bank’sCommunity Development Carbon Fund (CDCF); Fujifilm plansto contribute a total of US$9 million. The fund applies theKyoto Mechanism established under the Kyoto Protocol toimplement a large number of small-to-medium scale CO
2
reduction projects, mainly in developing countries in Asia,Africa and South America.Operation of the fund for these activities is based on thephilosophy of simultaneously contributing to the environ-ment and society with due consideration to local benefits ineach region by developing infrastructures and ensuringemployment opportunities. Fujifilm’s contributions were made in support of the philosophyof CDCF. Nine governmental institutions (primarily in Europe)and 16 private enterprises (including 5 Japanese companies)have contributed to the fund and the operational policy of thefund is determined through mutual consultation between thesemembers. Fujifilm is expected to obtain emissions creditsthrough this fund of about 0.5 million tons by 2012 and is plan-ning to obtain additional credits beyond 2012. Fujifilm mayexercise its rights to use these credits to complement self-sus-taining efforts for voluntary CO
2reduction targets in Japan. 
Fuji Xerox joined to the Japan GHG Reduction Fund (JGRF)since 2004 and plans to invest a total of US$0.5 million. JGRFis the first full-fledged carbon fund in Japan with contributionsfrom 33 domestic organizations (31 private enterprises and 2public sector financial institutions). The fund has alreadystarted to obtain emission credits from a wind power genera-tion project in Argentina.Reduction of environmental burden associated with digital color multifunction devices and printers (energy-saving designs)Fuji Xerox had been operating its business with the goal ofdecreasing average power consumption per unit by half in 2005against 1997 levels. The efforts for reducing power consump-tion are still ongoing following the end of the targeted fiscalyear, and Fuji Xerox began applying in 1999 for the EnergyConservation Prize sponsored by the Japanese Ministry ofEconomy, Trade and Industry (initially sponsored by the EnergyConservation Center, Japan). Since receiving the Agency forNatural Resources and Energy Director-General’s Award in1999, Fuji Xerox has received awards for nine consecutiveyears, an unprecedented achievement in the industry.In fiscal 2007, color copy machines and digital color multifunc-tion devices, ApeosPort-
I I IC3300/C2200 and Docu Centre- I I I
C3300/C2200, and the DocuPrint C2250 color printer wereawarded the Minister’s Prize from the Ministry of Economy,Trade and Industry, under the 4th Eco Products Awards. In par-ticular, ApeosPort-
I I IC3300 achieves impressive energy sav-
ings of more than 70%*1compared to its predecessor, the
ApeosPort-I IC3300. The dramatic improvement in energy con-
servation was made possible through such efforts as the devel-opment of a standby controller to reduce power consumptionin sleep mode under 2W even when connected to a network.Moreover, the use of biomass plastic, more than 30% of whichis comprised of plant-derived constituents, for the resin compo-nents reduces CO
2emissions by approximately 16% compared
to conventional plastics (ABS resin).FUJIFILM Holdings implemented the following four cross-sectional initiatives associated with distribution across theentire Group, producing outstanding results in such areas ascost-cutting as well as reducing CO
2emissions to alleviate
environmental burdens.Fujifilm and its affiliates reduced CO
2 by 848 tons in fiscal
2007 (a 2.7% improvement over the previous year).  On theother hand, Fuji Xerox faced a significant traffic volume chal-lenge, since the company delivers copy machines and suppliesto customers in all parts of the country. In fiscal 2007, how-ever, the company worked aggressively to lower CO
2emis-
sions, leading to a reduction of 2,799 tons for the year (a 8.6%improvement from the previous year). Fuji Xerox will furtherintegrate its hub warehouses and joint delivery from its hubsand engage in collaborative distribution in air transportation,while implementing a variety of actions across the globe, suchas shifting from air transportation to marine transportation andimproving the carrying efficiency of the latter. Distribution ini-tiatives implemented by the Fujifilm Group in fiscal 2007 aresummarized below.Activities at laboratories
*Calculated based on the EU-ETS price as of March 20, 2008: €21.9 ⁄ CO 2 (tons)CO2 reductionCost benefits of 
CO2 reduction *
Fiscal 2006 3,600 tons ¥12.35 million
4,000 tons ¥13.70 million Fiscal 2007
1 Effective use of nighttime power by introducing water thermal storage system
Introduction and optimal control operations of high-efficiency
turbo refrigeration equipment
Use of nighttime power by introducing NAS batteries
Introduction of photovoltaic electricity generation (70kWh)Across-the-board introduction of city gas
Improvement of thermal insulation properties by installing rooftop gardensIntroduction of reflective glass and insulating film
Lighting control
(introduction of people sensors and high-frequency fluorescent lamps)
Introduction of ultra-high-efficiency transformers
Introduction of high-temperature-chilled water system 
Energy management through central monitoring
Substantial water conservation by introducing circulation system of 
cooling water used for experiments2
34
56
7
8
9
1011
1212 capital investments to achieve energy savings
(Advanced Research Laboratories)
Content Effects CO2 reduction
•Reduced warehouse area
•Consolidated deliveryIntegrating export warehouses 2,368.17 tons
•Control of CO 2 emission 
during driving and waitingEco Drive 561.36 tons
•Improved truck loading ratio Improved carrying efficiency 117.73 tons
•Reduction in number of trucks Changing transportation mode (modal shift, etc.) and improving distribution efficiency693.42 tonsDistribution initiatives
Voluntary reduction projects Compliance with revised Energy Saving LawPower consumption ⁄ year Electricity cost ⁄ year *
ApeosPort- I I C3300 525kWh ¥10,500
135kWh ¥2,700 ApeosPort- I I I C3300
*Calculated as ¥20 ⁄ kWhPower consumption compared to previous model
135kWh
0100200300400500600 (kWh)
ApeosPort-I I C3300 ApeosPort- I I I C330074% down525kWh(Consumption volume for 52 weeks based on TEC value)
*Calculated based on the EU-ETS price as of March 20, 2008: €21.9 ⁄ CO 2(tons)
*1 Comparison based on TEC value, simulated value of
one week of standard electricity consumption as
applied in the International Energy Star Program.ApeosPort-
I I IC3300: 2.6kW ⁄ week
ApeosPort- I IC3300: 10.1kW ⁄ week
Activities at officesIntroducing economic instruments Activities related to our products
Activities within distribution
Photovoltaic electricity generation and rooftop gardens (Advanced Research
Laboratories)
*CO 2reduction impact is estimated in comparison with conventional methods.
Water power generation in Honduras(above) and photovoltaic electricity gener-ation in Bangladesh (left)
ApeosPort- I I IC3300 series model,
recipient of the Eco Products AwardRelated pages
Page 57: Stakeholder Dialogue
Page 59: Developing Biomass PlasticsFeature: Enhancing Quality of Life
21 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 20 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Strong global commitment to social responsibilities
CSR Activities in China
The 31 Chinese subsidiaries of the Fujifilm Group are building their businesses 
while promoting environmental activities and contributing to society.
The Fujifilm Group has identified China as one of its key mar-
kets. In the 1980s, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox opened offices inBeijing and Shanghai, respectively, and have since been build-ing up their business in China. The Fujifilm Group so far hasinvested more than US$900 million for business developmentin China. Today, our total sales in China * have reached approxi-
mately ¥450 billion and our 31 affiliates have created morethan 20,000 jobs.In the course of conducting business in China, it is only natu-ral for the Fujifilm Group to demonstrate as deep a commit-ment to its corporate social responsibilities as it does inJapan. We are actively working on protecting the environment(for example, energy and resource conservation in local man-ufacturing factories, compliance with regulations governingthe chemical content of products and establishing recyclingsystems), and contributing to society (including the PinkRibbon Campaign and a voluntary tree planting program) inaddition to actively pursuing personnel development, provid-ing training, improving the working environment and ensuringworksite safety and health.Furthermore, FUJIFILM Holdings started publishing its
Sustainability Report in Chinese in fiscal 2006 to also disclose
information on CSR activities of the Fujifilm Group in China.Fujifilm Group operations in ChinaIn order to give people in China a clear understanding of theFujifilm Group’s commitment to environmental and CSR activi-ties in the midst of developing businesses across a wide rangeof fields, we invited nine members from six major Chinesemedia outlets (
People’s Daily Netcenter, Nanfang Media Group,
China Business, Guangming Daily, Xinhua News Agency and
China Business News ) to visit Japan from November 28 to
December 2, 2007. The invitation was jointly planned byFUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd. and FUJIFILM Holdings.In addition to a “talkfest” with the management of FUJIFILMHoldings, managers from Fujifilm and its affiliates explained thebusiness of the Fujifilm Group and shared CSR case studiesfrom Japan and China. Guests from the major Chinese mediafirms engaged in a lively Q&A session.Visitors from six major Chinese media organizations 
tour our head office and factories
The Fujifilm Group is also actively involved in the Pink Ribbon
Campaign for raising awareness of the importance of breastcancer screening and provides technical support to improvethe accuracy of mammography diagnosis in China. EveryOctober, which is the internationally designated month foremphasizing the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer, weconduct a Pink Ribbon Campaign in six major Chinese cities(Shanghai, Beijing, Shenyang, Hangzhou, Jinan and Tianjin). Asa part of the campaign, FUJIFILM Hong Kong Limited sponsoreda Breast Cancer Seminar organized by the RadiologyDepartment, Hong Kong Polytechnic University (held inNovember 2007 with approximately 150 in attendance), andemphasized the importance of breast cancer screening.
In fiscal 2007, Fujifilm, FUJIFILM Medical and FUJIFILM MedicalSystems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. jointly launched a project to pro-mote breast cancer screening and improve the accuracy of diag-nosis in China. The project began with representatives of fourChinese academies related to breast cancer screening and theFujifilm Group announcing the effort (April 2007, Jinan City,Shandong) and then moving the project into full swing. The Groupsubsequently cooperated in a Japan-China mammography work-shop (May and July 2007 in Japan) jointly hosted by the fourChinese academies related to breast cancer screening and aJapanese NPO, the Central Committee on Quality Control ofMammographic Screening, targeting Chinese physicians and radi-ologists, followed by the first training session on mammographicphotographing (December 2007 in China). The Group providedtechnical support for these events, including the loan of mammog-raphy equipment along with lectures and training related to diag-nosis. The Group is also helping five facilities that serve as thecentral bases for mammography diagnosis in China to becomemodel hospitals by lending Fujifilm FCR Mammography systems.Pink Ribbon Campaign and technical support 
for mammography screening in China
Company Description Points of recognition 
•Sincere management committed to complying with regulations
•Protection of the environment•Intellectual property rights
•Respecting the rights of workers
•Ongoing support for social contribution activities“Top 50 Outstanding Foreign Direct Investment Companies in Implementing CSR” selected from foreign-invested enterprises across China as of November 2007 
(China Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment (CAEFI))FUJIFILM (China) Investment 
Co., Ltd.•Environmentally friendly manufacturing processes •Developing more green space than standards requireGentle company that saves energy and resources(from the PRC Government)FUJIFILM STARLIGHT CO., LTD.•Recycling of resins and metal contained in electronic components•3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) implementation•Planting trees on factory-owned land and the Suzhou Industrial Park•Enhanced environmental protection system       •Environmentally friendly manufacturing processesIndustrial enterprise with high level of information disclosure(from Suzhou Environmental Protection Bureau)FUJIFILM Imaging Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.
22 items in three areas: the environment, management and products, including:•Acquisition of environmental management system (ISO 14001EMS)
•Reduced emissions of pollutants
•Top level waste recycling rate among domestic industries•Hygienic working environment at the production division•Elimination of prohibited substances in products and production process•Greening rate over 35%National Environment Friendly Corporation(State Environmental Protection Administration of China (SEPA))Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.Recognition by Chinese government and other entitiesChinese bases of Fujifilm Group
31 affiliated companies and 4 associated companies
Major marketing bases Group production bases
Examples of Fujifilm Group products and components 
assembled or produced at Chinese bases
The presentations and visits helped me to better understand the
business of the Fujifilm Group. The Fujifilm Group is upholdingthe corporate philosophy: enhancing the quality of life of people.The Group has concretely expressed this corporate philosophythrough the provision of products and services as well as in itscommunications and participation in local communities. Ithought that reporting on CSR activities I learned from theFujifilm Group will help Chinese enterprises to better promotetheir own CSR actions.
From a Chinese media 
representative
Lens/optical units 
for digital camerasFujinon zoom lens for day and night surveillance camerasLens/optical units for mobile phones
*Consolidated net sales by region (fiscal 2007)•FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Head Office
•FUJIFILM SQUARE (Tokyo Midtown) Showroom•FUJIFILM Advanced Research Laboratories 
(Kaisei-town, Kanagawa Prefecture)
•FUJIFILM Kyushu (Kikuyo-town, Kumamoto Prefecture): 
Production sites for films used in flat panel displaysPlaces visitedDigital cameras
Copy machines/printers
PS platesLenses/optics
Related page Page10: Pink Ribbon Campaign
COMMENTSFinePix F100fd FinePix S100FS
President & CEO Komori talking with guests from the Chinese media visiting Japan
(left) and presentation at the FUJIFILM Advanced Research Laboratories (right)
Mr. Luo Hua
Director, Vice-president, People’s Daily NetcenterFeature: Enhancing Quality of Life CSR Activities in China
23 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 22 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008In March 2006, Fujifilm analyzed the status of CSR activities* in the 37 Group companies in Japan and overseas based on a CSR self-
check sheet and identified CSR issues that should be addressed according to specific regional characteristics and business stru ctures.
In the two years since the Group shifted to a holding company structure in October 2006, the business structure of the Fujifilm Group
has undergone a significant change due to the promotion of structural reforms and other efforts. Group companies in China have par-
ticularly experienced a dramatic expansion in organizational scale and number of personnel along with the greater economic deve lop-
ment of China. Against this background, FUJIFILM Holdings conducted a survey in May 2008 to determine the progress of CSR effor ts
in major Group companies operating in China. Based on this survey, we report the CSR efforts of individual companies along with theircorporate profiles and messages from their top executives.
The CSR self-check sheet was distributed and an outline of
CSR activities determined based on the responses. The CSRSelf Check—created based on the Supplier Self-AssessmentQuestionnaire (created by EICC) *
1, Supply-Chain CSR
Deployment Guidebook (created by JEITA)*2and others—con-
sists of six fields: environmental management, occupationalhealth and safety, employment and human rights, procurement,personnel training and social contribution. Environmental management and occupational health and safety
management are conducted at a level equivalent to that of facto-ries in Japan. Therefore, no corrective actions are urgentlyrequired at this time. In response to the Labor Contract Law thatwent into effect in China in January 2008, all companies areworking to revise company regulations and provide managertraining to manage working hours and so on. The level of effort inregard to social contribution and supplier management varydepending on the company, while common challenges amongthese companies are personnel development and lowering theturnover rate. There are some cases, however, in which theturnover rate has been effectively reduced by enhancing trainingopportunities and utilizing volunteer activities to increaseemployees’ sense of belonging. FUJIFILM Holdings will encour-age application of these best practices. Furthermore, while gain-ing first hand understanding of their current CSR activities,FUJIFILM Holdings will support companies with operations inChina to promote CSR initiatives through active communicationsboth inside and outside the Group.
Based on the responses to the CSR Self Check, we conducted
top-level interviews, interviewed personnel at the worksite,reviewed documents and visited sites (environment-relatedfacilities, fuel/chemical substance management/storage facili-ties, work areas, and health and recreation facilities).
We will consider CSR promotion measures based on Steps 1
and 2 in the latter half of fiscal 2008.Implementation of CSR self-check sheet
March 2008May 2008
Starting second half of fiscal 2008Step 1
Information gatheringStep 2
Field surveyStep 3
Exploration of 
CSR promotion measures
After completing the field survey
CSR Group, Corporate Support Division, 
FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationToyohiko Hishida
Operations ManagerAkiko Gosho
Operations ManagerKoji Yokota
President
(Corporate Vice President, FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation)
Hiroshi Tanaka
PresidentREPORT
REPORTFUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.The trend toward emphasizing CSR has also been more apparent in
China. Public concern over environmental issues is high and thescope of governmental efforts and regulations is expanding. Onanother front, the people of China are extremely conscious of socialcontributions right from the start. It may be no exaggeration to saythat the general public constantly scrutinizes corporate social contri-bution as well as personal contributions. Sound and transparent cor-porate activities are basic principles of our company. We activelysupport education for the underprivileged, greening campaigns, andso forth on an ongoing basis beyond our social contributions throughbusiness operations. We are also encouraging social contribution byindividual employees. We intend toimplement and develop corporateactivities based on CSR in China.
We are working our way through many twists and turns with the con-
flict between the Japanese way (Fujifilm Way) and a variety ofChinese ways. I want to value the basic concept of contributing tosociety while appreciating each other’s merits. The Chinese govern-ment is eager to introduce international standards leading to changein various locations. For example, the Labor Law was substantiallyamended. Accordingly, we also completed an overall revision ofcompany contracts and rules. In doing this, I realized the importanceof adhering to the basics of CSR, that is, social contribution, as oneof the things we can depend on.The company emphasizes and is actively disclosing informationand communicating with stakeholders. At the same time, it ispromoting CSR activities of the Fujifilm Group in China bysimultaneously conducting CSR training for seven companiesunder its umbrella and implementing social contribution events(including the greening of Mongolia and the Pink RibbonCampaign). This year, the company is scheduled to implementcompliance training for the Labor Contract Law and the Anti-Monopoly Law.
Established: April 2001
Capital: US$213.4 million 
Location: Shanghai Head Office: 
No. 76 Pu jian Road, Pudong New Area
Other locations: Beijing, Guangzhou, ChengduAffiliated companies: 7
Business outline: Supervision of Fujifilm’s busi-
ness in China, investment, sales etc. The companyserves as the Chinese regional headquarters of amultinational company as authorized by the gov-ernment of Shanghai.
Established: October 1995
Capital: US$89.5 million
Location: Chang Jiang Road, New District, Suzhou
Business outline: Production and sales of optical
equipment, digital equipment, etc.Comment from the field survey supervisor
Step 1  Information gathering
Step 2  Field survey
Step 3  Exploration of CSR promotion measuresThe strong will of com-
pany president Tanaka,who arrived at his posttwo years ago to cre-ate a technology com-pany, significantlychanged the assemblyprocesses at this com-pany. The president and related workers analyzed the processthrough repeated discussion and significantly reduced thenumber of man-hours and improved work efficiency.Furthermore, each man-hour is “visualized” so that anyone onthe site can review man-hour performance. This makes it easyto grasp the impact individual work improvements may have onthe entire process, leading to changes in worker awareness.While reinforcing PDCA management to ensure complianceand risk management, which are priority issues for CSR man-agement, the company is committed to training Chinese engi-neers and managers who will lead the site.Comment from the field survey supervisorReport on CSR activities at Chinese sites
Vice President Xu Rui Fu promoting CSR
CSR self-check sheet
Field survey in progress in May 2008*1 URL http://www.eicc.info/downloads/
ICT_Self-AssessmentQuestionnaire.pdf*2 URL http://home.jeita.or.jp/ecb/csr/sc-csr_checksheet200608j.pdf (in Japanese)*CSR activities in eight fields: governance and compliance; personnel, employment and nurturing the next generation; occupational health and safety and disaster prevention; risk management; resource procurement; response to cus-
tomers; environmental preservation; and social contribution.Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life CSR Activities in China
25 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 24 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Nakao Ooi
PresidentREPORT
FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.
Our company is a new factory that started producing printing materi-
als in Suzhou, China, in March 2007. Under the principles of vigor,accuracy, improvement and growth, we are aiming to have employ-ees and the company grow together. Because we handle chemicals,solvents and heavy loads, we are doing everything possible toensure the safety and health of our employees while taking action tomaintain and improve the environment of the community. We focusour work every day to realize a user-oriented, best performance fac-tory here in Suzhou, based on these CSR activities.Because hydrochloricacid is used in the pro-duction line for PS platesfor offset printing, anti-corrosion measures andthe handling of drainageand exhaust significantlyimpact operating ratesand the environment. Therefore, the Environmental Protection& Security Division and the Equipment Division are workingtogether in checking, maintenance, repair and improvement ofrelated facilities. They are striving to prevent equipment failurethat leads to an interruption of operations and have achievedzero environmental accidents. One year has passed since thestart of operations, and new issues are appearing, such asimproving employee retention. The company is in the processof acquiring certification in international standards for environ-ment, quality and occupational health and safety management.In terms of suppliers, the company plans to assess its suppliesbased on cost, quality, delivery time and service, which willlater be expanded into CSR procurement.
Established: January 2005 (started production in
March 2007)
Capital: US$39 million Location: Longtan Road, Suzhou Industrial Park,
SuzhouBusiness outline: Production and sales of PS and
CTP plates for offset printingComment from the field survey supervisor
Kiyoshi Nishimaki
Director, General ManagerREPORT
FUJINON TIANJIN OPTICAL CO., LTD.
Since the company was founded, the importance of its role as a
main factory for the FUJINON head office has dramaticallyincreased. Now, our top priority is to secure QCD (Quality, Cost,Delivery) that is superior to our competitors. In the future, we willpursue efforts to earn recognition by the local community throughactivities such as further improving the working environment of thecompany and actively involving the company and its employees inactivities that can contribute to the community.
Established: November 1994 
Capital: US$17.25 million Location: Dongting Lu Factory: 24 Dongting Road,
Hexi District, TianjinXiqing Factory: 2 Hongyuan Street, XiqingEconomic Development Area, TianjinBusiness outline: Processing/assembly of lensunits for camera-equipped mobile phones, digitalcameras and liquid crystal projectorsComment from the field survey supervisorREPORT
Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.
The company has grown rapidly
as a production base for FujiXerox with production volumeincreasing more than 10 timesand the number of employeesmore than 4 times compared tofiscal 2000. As a result, the training of young workers (aged 16to 20) has become a major issue. The company is working tomotivate employees by implementing a wide range of meas-ures, including introducing an employee support system (forexample, continuing education, mental health hotline, residentindustrial doctor), planning and implementing volunteer activi-ties and amplifying benefits in addition to providing skills train-ing. Furthermore, emphasizing communication, the companythoroughly “visualized” its top message, job descriptions andtargets of individual departments, workflow and examples, andraised employee awareness. In regard to procurement, thecompany launched a CSR procurement initiative entitled,“Supplier Engagement,” and is completing the initial steps,starting from briefing sessions with business partners andcommunicating improvement requests based on self-assess-ments to the stage of onsite audits.
Established: June 1995 
(started production in May 1996)Capital: US$38 million Address: Guanlan Dahe Village, Changqing Industrial Area, Bao An Shenzhen Business outline: Development, production andsales of printers, copiers, multifunction devices, CRUand related partsComment from the field survey supervisor
Yuuji Otake
Director and PresidentREPORT
Fuji Xerox Eco-Manufacturing (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.
Our goal is to construct a “Zero Landfill System” in China so that we
can contribute to the realization of a sustainable society as well aspreserve the environment and guard against environmental risks inChina. In order to exemplify the commitment to social responsibili-ties that a company should fulfill as a member of Chinese society,the entire company will work together, under the keywords of com-munication, teamwork and speed, to implement and promote therecycling of resources and function as a model for new recyclingprojects in China.
Established: December 2006 
(started operations in February 2008) Capital: ¥609 millionLocation: Wangjiang Road, Suzhou Industrial Park,
SuzhouBusiness outline: Recycling and reuse of used
copy machines and supplies for printing, collectedvoluntarily from across ChinaIn January 2008, the Integrated
Recycling System of Fuji Xerox alsobegan operations in China followingsimilar launches in Japan andThailand. With the operation of thisfactory, a system was establishedto carry out the recycling and reuseof used products based on a unifiedstandard across all regions in whichFuji Xerox operates. Because thesuccess of this project depends on a stable collection of usedproducts, the company is striving to raise awareness and coop-erate with Fuji Xerox (China) Ltd., which sells products inChina, as well as logistics companies, while improving the col-lection rate of used products from customers. On the other front, the site is building a system for acquiringcertification of international standards (ISO 14001/ISO 9000s)within fiscal 2008. In addition, the company is also working toimprove its work environment by assessing its chemical sub-stance management with the assistance of specialists invitedfrom Japan.Comment from the field survey supervisor
With the number of employees
skyrocketing from 28 in 1995when operations started to over7,000, the company hasexpanded to run two factories atfull capacity. The Director andGeneral Manager of the companysays that cultivating existinghuman resources is the greatestchallenge for meeting severecost/delivery time demandsfrom customers. While thor-oughly managing the individual operations of local staff, thecompany has worked to enhance their capabilities throughsuch efforts as skill presentations. These activities bore fruitand the delegation of authority has advanced, allowing the res-ident Japanese staff to be reduced to three while lowering theturnover rate below the average of Tianjin. In fiscal 2008, thecompany plans to conduct company trips and recreationalactivities and improve lodging and the corporate cafeteria tofurther strengthen the overall benefit package. 
Skill presentations
Related page Page 57: Stakeholder DialogueIn order to establish a champion manufac-
turing company that is trusted by cus-tomers worldwide, the company started itsthird structural reform and formulated athree-year plan in 2008. Inheriting the DNA
of Fuji Xerox, the company is strengthening the management of CSRactivities as a priority initiative to create a sound company thatexpands the three characteristics of “strong, kind, and interesting”in a well-balanced manner. In addition to expanding deployment ofthe existing CSR activities, we will put forward additional activities,including continued efforts for environmental improvement and ini-tiatives that raise environmental awareness in cooperation with theState Environmental Protection Administration of China (SEPA) andShenzhen Municipal Government, strengthening activities concern-ing occupational health in partnership with local NPOs, and furtherexpanding the wave of CSR procurement that began last year.
Masaaki Inagaki
Chairman and President27 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 26 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Medium-term CSR Plan Highlights
Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI ; “YadorigiI I I” (Quire 45), Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum
Hachinomiya (the eighth son of the emperor), Genji’s half-brother by a different mother, had grown weary of the world and retired with his two daughters to a mountain villa in Uji, where he dedicated his life to the teachings
of Buddha. Kaoru, Genji’s son, became acquainted with Hachinomiya and deepened his friendship with him as a teacher of Buddhism. Kaoru had occasionally visited the villa over three years, and one late autumn, he visitedthe villa while Hachinomiya was away. He glimpsed the beautiful sisters playing the koto and biwa under the moon at dawn.Medium-term CSR Plan Highlights report on the
progress of activities in four challenges that arepriority areas for the Fujifilm Group’s CSR, includ-ing the formulation of policies, planning, the cre-ation of a framework, and issues focused on infiscal 2007.
Steps for Promoting CSR Activities 
and Progress Evaluation 28
Strengthening Governance 30
Enhancing stakeholder dialogues
Stakeholder Dialogues 2008Group Company’s Stakeholder Dialogue (Logistics)
Response to New Trends 34
Stakeholder Dialogue (Human diversity)
Strengthened Information Disclosure 36
Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations 38Medium-term CSR Plan Highlights
29 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 28 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Fujifilm Group’s CSR priority areas and key issues in the
medium-term can be seen in the table below. In fiscal 2007, wedisseminated the Fujifilm Group Charter for CorporateBehavior, the Code of Conduct, and the Fujifilm Group’sApproach to CSR, to establish a common foundation for theGroup’s CSR and to strengthen governance in domestic andoverseas Group companies. To ensure the success of ourmedium-term management plan, VISION75 (2007), we stead-fastly worked to comply with environmental laws and regula-tions, strengthen measures to prevent global warming (climatechange) and respond to new trends such as biodiversity as wellas improving information disclosure.In fiscal 2007, we reviewed the Fujifilm Group’s CSR efforts todate and reevaluated the relative importance of areas for soci-ety and for the Group to more sharply focus our activities goingforward. In identifying the materiality of CSR issues, we definedmedium-term challenges to be addressed taking into considera-tion the following viewpoints.We are promoting and enhancing our CSR activities by evaluat-ing materiality and implementing key initiatives.
CSR challenges identified through the above processes havebeen extremely significant for both the Fujifilm Group andits stakeholders. Key CSR issues identified to date includeenvironmental conservation—particularly greenhouse gasemissions—human diversity, biodiversity, CSR procurementand social contribution. In fiscal 2007, we focused onreviewing our approach to biodiversity conservation todetermine future actions.
Identifying materiality and appropriate responsesProgress evaluation of the Medium-term CSR Plan
(fiscal 2007)Steps for promoting CSR activitiesSteps for Promoting CSR Activities and
Progress Evaluation
In promoting CSR activities, the Fujifilm Group reviews initiatives from the perspectives of both the company and 
its stakeholders and seeks improvement by setting priorities and taking concrete action.
Related page
Page 32: Enhancing stakeholder dialogues; 
Stakeholder Dialogues 2008Related pages
Page 16: Response to Climate Change
Page 30: Strengthening GovernancePage 34: Response to New TrendsPage 36: Strengthened Information DisclosurePage 38: Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations
Self-evaluation rankings: ★ Further effort needed. ★★ Close to achieving results. ★★★ Results achieved.
Priority area
Stronger Governance(1) Dissemination of the Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR throughout the group 
inside and outside Japan★★★
★★★
★★
★★★
★★★★★★
★★★
★★
★★★
★★★
★★
★★★(2) Strengthening of PDCA management to ensure compliance and thorough risk management
(3) Strengthening  of checks on progress  of CSR activities in operating companies
(4) Improved stakeholder dialogue and application of 3rd-party evaluation to 
group companies (Especially overseas and domestic sales subsidiaries)
(1) Strengthened efforts as a global corporation regarding diversity and work safety
(2) Creation and implementation of a framework for CSR procurement(3) Conservation of biodiversity and stipulation of a basic policy on social contributions
(1) Improvement of Sustainability Report and active PR on CSR activities
(2) Effective internal use and disclosure of qualitative 
and quantitative CSR information in business results
(3) Promotion of internal systems for rapidly collecting information on product liability, 
accidents and exporting issues
(1) Compliance with REACH Regulation
(2) Enhancement of an integrated system for chemical substance management
(1) Revision and strengthening of global warming targetsKey issueSelf-evaluation
in fiscal 2007
Medium-term CSR PlanPages 30-33
Response to New Trends
Pages 34-35
Improved 
Information Disclosure
Pages 36-37
Compliance with 
Environmental Laws 
and Regulations
Pages 38-39
Stronger Measures to 
Prevent Global Warming
Pages 16–19Step 4
Improvements to CSR activities
Step 1
Understanding stakeholders’ needsStep 2
Identifying important issuesStep 3
Establishing KPIs 
(KPI: Key Performance Indicator)Steps for promoting CSR activities as they evolve through stakeholder dialogues
Are the interests of 
stakeholders understood?Are stakeholders’ views incorporated?Are reports on performance 
being made to stakeholders?Is the company maintaining 
accountability by sustaining 
ongoing dialogue with stakeholders?
Stakeholder perspectiveWhat perspective is adopted 
to make improvements?
•Increasing corporate value
•Social contribution t
hrough 
our main business
•Sustainability of societyWhat perspective is adopted to establish KPIs?
•Long-term/short-term
•Ongoing•Utilization of measurement, 
analy
sis and results in managementWhat issues are identified?
•Business
•CSR•Dif
ficulty of solutionWhat perspective is adopted to understand the needs?
•Risk hedging
•Social contribution•Creation of oppor
tunitiesCompany perspective
Implementing key initiatives Evaluating importance
High
Low
Low HighFujifilm Group priority
Stakeholder prioritySocial contribution
BiodiversityCSR procurementCO2 reduction in business operations
Reduce CO 2 in products
Human diversity
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
The Group is directing its efforts through four steps 
to formulate its basic biodiversity policy in fiscal 2008.Related page Page 67: Biodiversity Conservation•Demand and expectations of society (including the outcome of stakeholder dialogues)•Fujifilm Group’s approach to CSR •Case analysis of the Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities•Results of analysis of Group companies’ CSR activities based on CSR self-check sheet
(conducted in 2005)
•Result of recommended improvements from third parties regarding the 
FUJIFILM
Group Sustainability Report 2006 The CSR Committee of FUJIFILM Holdings oversees the Fujifilm
Group’s system for implementing CSR. The CSR Committee is adecision-making body chaired by the president of FUJIFILMHoldings to promote CSR activities across the entire FujifilmGroup. The CSR division of FUJIFILM Holdings, which serves asthe CSR Committee secretariat, supports the CSR activities ofFUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. through fivemajor functions. Each company formulates and implements aCSR activity plan in accordance with its operations, ensuresthorough compliance, conducts risk management, promotescommunication with stakeholders, and reports on CSR activi-ties to the FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Committee.
As business operations become more globalized with a growing
proportion of BtoB transactions, the Fujifilm Group must fulfillits corporate social responsibilities, which constitute the foun-dation of its corporate philosophy, while strengthening its busi-ness structure and implementing structural reforms. Therefore,the Fujifilm Group is phasing in the introduction of IMS, startingwith Fujifilm and the head offices and the marketing and salesdivision of its affiliates. IMS unifies business operations—fromincorporating management goals into operations to achievingresults—and CSR activities. Evaluations from the perspective ofstakeholders related to business operations reinforces continu-ous improvement by raising the quality of business operationsand alleviating environmental impacts as well as stimulatingsocially beneficial initiatives.Looking ahead, we will deploy best practices in IMS, whichunites the three standards of environmental management,quality management, and health and safety management, atFUJIFILM Kyushu and FUJIFILM Electronic Materials and then
expand to other production factories.CSR promotion systemMedium-term CSR Plan Highlights
31 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 30 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008FUJIFILM Holdings upholds the Fujifilm Corporate Philosophyand clarifies the Fujifilm Group’s approach to CSR as a meansfor fulfilling the social responsibilities of the company that arefundamental to this philosophy.FUJIFILM Holdings continually enforces and improves its corpo-rate governance to earn the trust of all its stakeholders. And asa holding company, we also support the management of Groupstrategy and the optimal allocation of resources.FUJIFILM Holdings has positioned its board of directors, includ-ing one outside director, as the decision-making body for thebasic policies and strategies of the Group as well as for vitalissues impacting business operations. It also controls the over-all execution of business functions. FUJIFILM Holdings has alsoadopted an executive officer system with clear responsibilitiesand authority to ensure the efficient and timely execution ofbusiness operations.To ensure that corporate management is conducted in a waythat is transparent, sound and in full compliance, corporateauditors review every aspect of business activities by attend-ing meetings of the board of directors, management councilsand other key meetings. Furthermore, an internal auditing unit that operates independ-ently from business executive units, conducts audits to evalu-ate and confirm the appropriateness of individual divisionoperations. Specific divisions oversee environmental and exportcontrol audits. Corporate auditors and the internal auditing unitjointly conduct audits and regularly confirm the status of inter-nal controls for major Group companies.In addition, FUJIFILM Holdings quickly and effectivelyreleases corporate information to maintain full accountabilitywith its stakeholders.Corporate governance perspectives CSR perspectives
Reinforcing CSR management—Introduction of IMS *Priority Area
Strengthening Governance
The progress and achievements of initiatives related to strengthening governance,
a priority area in our Medium-term CSR Plan, are detailed in the following pages.
Related page
Page 42: Compliance training for overseas comapnies
Related pages
Page 22: Report on CSR activities at chinese sites
Page 32: Enhancing stakeholder dialoguesPage 42: CompliancePage 45: Risk ManagementRelated page
Page 78:  IMS certified sitesFor CSR-related items of the Fujifilm Group
1. Deliberate and decide basic policies2. Deliberate and decide priority issues and initiatives
1. Apply policies and strategic objectives determined by the CSR
Committee across the entire Fujifilm Group
2. Implement and manage progress of priority issues and initia-
tives as determined by the CSR Committee across the Fujifilm
Group
3.
Support the Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities (collect informationand conduct analysis and evaluation)
4. Promote public information disclosure and dialogues with
stakeholders
5. Audit the Fujifilm Group’s CSR activitiesCSR Committee functionsThe Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR is to contribute to the sus-tainable development of society by putting into practice theFujifilm Group’s Corporate Philosophy, and realizing its Visionthrough sincere and fair business activities.
We will:
1. fulfill our economic and legal responsibilities, and respond to
society’s demands by contributing as a corporate citizen tothe development of culture and technology in society andenvironmental preservation.
2. constantly reassess whether our CSR activities are respond-
ing adequately to the demands and expectations of societyand whether those activities are conducted properlythrough dialogue with our stakeholders including customers,shareholders, investors, employees, local communities, andbusiness partners.
3. enhance corporate transparency by actively disclosing infor-
mation to fulfill our accountability for our business activities.The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR
CSR Committee Secretariat
(CSR division of FUJIFILM Holdings) functions
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.Shareholders’ Meeting
Board of Directors
•Determines basic Group policies and strategies
•Makes decisions on issues 
impacting key business operations 
•Oversees execution of business functionsBoard of 
Corporate AuditorsIndependent
Auditor
Business Execution
President, Representative Director
(Chief Executive Officer)
Executive Officers Internal Auditing Unit
Public Relations/IR Corporate Planning PersonnelGeneral
AdministrationLegal/CSR Corporate R&DCompliance and Risk Management
CSR Committee
Consultation
OfficesCSR Division
(Secretariat)
FUJIFILM CorporationThe Fujifilm Group’s governance structure
Management Council
Corporate PhilosophyFiscal Year PolicyPolicies of
Division Heads
Fujifilm
Quality PolicyFujifilm Group
Green PolicyLegal and 
Other RequirementsPolicy BreakdownCustomer
SatisfactionResultsCustomer
InformationImplementation and
ActionReport to Division Heads
(Discussion)
Mutual Internal Auditing
Surveillance and Analysis of 
Measurement Data
Policy Reviews
 (Corrective and Preventative Measures)Toward Sustainable Improvement
PlanPDCA
DoCheck
ActThe PDCA Cycle in IMS
PDCA
PDCA
PDCA
PDCA
QMSEMSISMS
OHSMSIMS improves overall operational
effectiveness by unifying therequired multiple management sys-tems for business operations. Inaddition, IMS leads to strengthening worksite risk managementto provide customer satisfaction and meet stakeholder expecta-tions. Internal IMS audits directly lead to greater effectiveness ofbusiness structures and systems.Takaatsu Honda
Senior Engineering Manager
CSR Div., Ecology & Quality Management Division, FUJIFILM Corporation
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Holdings
CSR CommitteeFUJIFILM Holdings
FUJIFILM Holdings, 
Corporate Support Division, 
CSR group
FUJIFILM CorporationCSR promotion 
system
*IMS: Integrated Management System encompassing several management systems, such as EMS (Environmental
Management System), QMS (Quality Management System), OHSMS (Occupational Health & Safety Management
System), and ISMS (Information Security Management System).COMMENTSMedium-term CSR Plan Highlights Strengthening Governance
33 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 32 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Stakeholder dialogues provide an opportunity for the employees themselves to review the Fujifilm Group’s CSR and to identify an d
share related issues in conversations with stakeholders. Stakeholder dialogues, which have been continuously conducted since 20 04,
are utilized to advance the Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities.
In 2008, dialogues were held under the three themes of reducing the environmental burden of products (including the expansion o f
eco-printing), human diversity, and biodiversity. The progress of these three themes were as follows:Enhancing stakeholder dialogues
Stakeholder Dialogues 2008
Stakeholder dialogues held so far in 2008 have focused on key issues (eco-printing, reducing the environmental burden of products, bio-diversity and human diversity) and were organized into six sessions. The details of each dialogue session are introduced in this report.Following through on Stakeholder Dialogues 2008
FUJIFILM Logistics organizes a dialogue with 
18 corporate partnersTOPIC : Group Company’s Stakeholder DialogueCOMMENTS
On December 6, 2007, FUJIFILM Logistics Co., Ltd, which is responsi-
ble for the logistics of the Fujifilm Group, held a second CSR dialogue.The main purposes of the dialogue are to improve the quality of safetymeasures and to strengthen a sense of mutual trust with stakeholders. 
A total of 29 people from 18 corporate partners related to logisticsin the Kanto area participated. Representing Fujifilm Logistics weresix employees, primarily from the CSR division. Two representativesfrom Fujifilm’s CSR division also attended.In addition to Fujifilm Logistics’ report on CSR efforts, the environ-ment and safety, each company presented their efforts in socialcontribution and environmental preservation as well as improvementcase studies. Another report used images captured by a driverecorder prior to an accident. Examples shared by other companieshelp to clarify and strengthen Fujifilm Logistics’ own findings, whileat the same time illuminating the future directions for improvementin the other companies. In this sense, these dialogues have becomea valuable means for exchanging information and so we will continueto hold them in the future.Dialogue positioning
Theme of dialogueStep 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5
Organizing concepts Identifying and 
sharing issuesExploring issues Finding solutions Objectively 
verifying of solutions
Reducing the 
environmentalburden of products
(including expansion of 
eco-printing)
Human diversity
Biodiversity2005
20052006
2006
20082007
200520072007
 2008
2008
(Fiscal year) 
Human diversity
Page 34April 24, 2008Reducing the environmental burden of products
Page 57May 15, 2008Biodiversity (Dialogue with experts)
Page 69May 15, 2008
Reducing the environmental burden accompanying the growth of
business, CSR procurement, the environmental burden of products,human diversity and biodiversity, all these themes discussed atFujifilm Group’s stakeholder dialogues—for which I have beeninvolved in planning and implementation for four years—are impor-tant and challenging. I deeply appreciate Fujifilm’s willingness tolead the way in providing opportunities to discuss these issues withpeople outside the company. I also appreciate the actions that havecome out of these dialogues. However, the dialogues have not yetreached the point of becoming a way for every employee who isdirectly responsible for these issues at their own worksite to exer-cise initiative in talking with outsiders and actively learn. In order toadvance from dialogue (conversation) to engagement (involvingcounterparts to gain from their strength), I expect employees toremember that they need to aggressively learn from diverse special-ties, and this is especially important for difficult challenges.
A total of six stakeholder dialogues have been held in 2008 under the three themes of
reducing environmental burdens, protecting biodiversity and promoting human diversity.Compared with the “learn and study” approach of dialogues over the past four years, thesedialogues adopted a verification style in which we objectively assessed what had actuallybeen done in business operations. The secretariat felt that this represented stepping up toa higher level of dialogue. We now expect that outsiders will express higher expectations.So we reaffirm our commitment to planning and conducting future dialogues.I have participated in FUJIFILM Holdings’ dialogues for three consec-
utive years, 2006 through 2008. I was most impressed by the com-pany’s stance to strategically utilize these dialogues as a means forencouraging CSR activities across the Group. Personnel from theworksites of both Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox have participated, particu-larly since 2007 and the transition to a holding company structure.The dialogues seem to be very successful as a group communica-tions channel for exchanging business information and reinforcing acorporate culture. However, some variance in the level of progresswas noticeable, depending on the specific area, between activitiesthat were exhibiting progress intended by the secretariat, the organ-izer of the dialogues and those activities that were not showingmuch progress. For example, environmental activities seemed tohave broadened in content and perspective with addition of outsiderpoints of view. People are ultimately the prime movers in corporateactivities. Actions focused on people exponentially accelerate thepace of CSR activities. In this sense, the management of humanresources as a global company must be a focal point for raising thestandard of actions in the future.
After participating in 
stakeholder dialogues
Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi
Senior Analyst, 
Management Strategy Research Department, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.
Comment from the SecretariatExpecting progress 
toward engagement
Mr. Hideto Kawakita
CEO, IIHOE (International Institute for Human,
Organization, and the Earth)
Odawara Soko Unyu 
Clean-ups and other social contribution and introduction of the balance score card 
NIPPON EXPRESS CO., LTD.
Environmental preservation efforts based on CSR reports
Tamaunsou Co., Ltd.
Strengthening safety controls by introducing a drive recorder
TL LOGICOM CO., LTD.
Promoting improvements in safety, the environment, and quality across the GroupContent of reports from corporate partners
Spreading eco-printing
Page 15March 6, 2008Reducing the environmental burden of products
(Environmental Forum)
Page 90March 13, 2008Biodiversity (Dialogue with the future generations)
Page 68March 28, 2008
efforts, including initiatives to promote the achievement of
women among others, and establishing a safe and healthyenvironment that supports a diverse workforce in order tooperate at peak performance over the long term, regardlessof gender, nationality, or age. Strengthening these activitieswill pave the way for further advancing personnel develop-ment across the globe and a sound work-life balance.Pages 46 to 51 in this report highlight the efforts ofFujifilm, Fuji Xerox, and overseas Group companies to pro-mote the achievement of women and a healthy work-lifebalance as well as consideration for workplace safety andthe well-being of every employee.Medium-term CSR Plan Highlights
35 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 34 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Priority Area
Response to New Trends
In this section, we report on the progress and achievements of initiatives related to the theme,
Response to New Trends, a priority area in our Medium-term CSR Plan.
The Fujifilm Group is now in its “Second Foundation,” and weare doing everything possible to strengthen our business struc-ture and reorganize the entire Group, while also laying out newstrategies for growth. We are also vigorously promoting the sus-tainable expansion of proven growth businesses and creatingnew growth ventures. For a Group that is continually changing and growing, two areasof focus have become more important than ever before:strengthening the capabilities of each individual employee andestablishing an environment that elicits outstanding perform-ances from a diverse workforce. The Fujifilm Group is imple-menting multiple personnel development initiatives forenhancing the capabilities of every employee.At the same time, the Group is aggressively pursuingStrengthening individual capabilities and 
encouraging outstanding performances from adiverse workforce as a global corporation
Related pages
Page 46: Facilitating Personnel Development and Achievement at Fujifilm
Page 48: Facilitating Personnel Development and Achievement at Fuji XeroxPage 50: Creating a Safe and Healthy Workplace for All EmployeesPage 81: Personnel and Labor (Fujifilm)Page 82: Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)
Related pages
Page 62: Chemical Content Management
Page 83: Material ProcurementPage 84: Paper and paper material procurement
Future development of human diversity
On April 24, 2008, FUJIFILM Holdings held a dialogue on the theme
of human diversity. Previous dialogues had included recurring dis-cussions on actively promoting roles for women and work-life bal-ance. In this fourth dialogue, we advanced the conversation byoffering stakeholder feedback on the results and achievements ofFujifilm and Fuji Xerox in fiscal 2007. As a result, we reconfirmedour key challenges, including the formulation of basic concepts, set-ting goals, creating a positive workplace culture and changing mind-sets to address human diversity as a group.
Facilitator:
Mr. Hideto Kawakita, CEO of IIHOE(International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth)
External participants (3):
Ms. Takako Hagiwara, General Manager, Diversity Development Dept., Corporate Human Resources, Sony CorporationMs. Mariko Kawaguchi, Senior Analyst, Management Strategy Research Dept.,Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.Mr. Mitsuyo Hanada, Professor, Faculty of Policy Management, Keio University
Participants from the Fujifilm Group (10): 
FUJIFILM Holdings: 2; Fujifilm: 2; Fujifilm Labor Union: 1; Fuji Xerox: 4; FujiXerox Labor Union: 1•Organize and present basic concepts (What is a sound work-life bal-
ance? What is diversity? What is expected when more women are able
to take on important roles? What becomes possible by strengtheningindividual capabilities?)
•Set goals (As a global corporation, broaden the scope of information
gathering and clarify our focus as a group.)
•Gather and analyze information to grasp the actual situation and actively
disclose information, internally and externally (Demonstrated progressover the years will further promote our operations)
•Create a corporate and workplace culture and change mindsets (establish
an environment that encourages the effective utilization of our systemsand frameworks)
•Reinforce a style of management that draws out the best from each employeeFujifilm Group’s challenges related to human diversityFujifilm started pursuing environmentally friendly green procure-
ment (green procured materials and green suppliers) in 2000.Since then, we have developed our green procurement systemand have responded to laws and regulations, including RoHS*
1
and REACH*2, drawing on the expertise we have gained as a
chemical manufacturer. Specifically, we have implemented chem-ical content controls and surveyed the corporate environmentthrough Web-based self-audits (electronic audits) since 2005. 
In 2006, Fujifilm incorporated a perspective of CSR procure-ment in this corporate environment survey and added itemsrelated to social concerns, such as employment and discrimina-tion. With these efforts, as well as by advancing fair and openpurchasing and procurement, we established standards for sus-tainable resource procurement and implemented other effortsto respond to requests from business partners and inquiriesfrom stakeholders in line with the recent expansion of BtoB.
We are currently further upgrading CSR procurement in collabo-ration with related divisions encompassing CSR, the environ-ment, and materials. As a part of our efforts, we are nowsetting up contact desks to respond to inquiries from suppliers.And to enhance synergies with Fuji Xerox in October 2007, thepurchase of indirect materials*
3for Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox was
integrated into FUJIFILM Business Expert Corporation *4, a FUJI-
FILM Holdings’ affiliate. This leads to reducing costs for Fujifilmand Fuji Xerox Group through such actions as the joint pur-chase of computers based on the advantage of scale. Fuji Xerox considersits partner companiesas business associ-ates who 
understand
and share Fuji Xerox’s
management policiesand perspectives onthe environment andsociety in cultivatinghealthy and sound business collaborations.
Starting in fiscal 2007, after two years of preparations, FujiXerox introduced its CSR procurement activities. CSR procure-ment asks for the cooperation of partner companies in consid-ering human rights, labor, and corporate ethics in addition toimproving quality and cost, and environmental efforts, all ofwhich have been previously requested. Starting in August 2007,the company conducted a total of five briefings with relatedclient companies including two briefings in Japan, one inIncheon, South Korea, and one each in Shanghai and Shenzhen,China. To assist in conducting a self-analysis process that clientcompanies could easily do on their own, Fuji Xerox developedand distributed management guidelines and a self-check listthat described the items requested by the company as well asbackground information for the request and case studies.Having analyzed the responses from each company and pro-vided feedback, Fuji Xerox is currently visiting client companiesone by one to exchange information on challenges encounteredat the worksite and to request improvements.By pursuing these activities in partnership with client compa-nies, Fuji Xerox is exercising its social responsibilities across theentire supply chain. At the same time, it believes these activitiesdo much more than simply avert risks; they also lead to betterQCD (quality, cost and delivery) and the sustainable develop-ment of companies and society as a whole.
Anticipating the formulation of its Guidelines for Biodiversity in
fiscal 2008, Fujifilm is focusing on the following four steps:developing our own awareness of the issues, confirming howothers view these issues, recognizing and developing a commonunderstanding of the problems, and clarifying the FujifilmGroup’s stance and strategies.
On April 2, 2007, CSR Committee of FUJIFILM Holdings adopted
the Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy, which laid out itsbasic policies in this area. Establishing a framework for CSR procurement and 
development of environmentally friendly purchasing
Clarifying basic policies on biodiversity
Clarifying basic policies on social contribution*1RoHS Directive (Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equip-
ment): Restrictions governing the use of certain harmful substances in electrical and electronic devices inEurope, and restricting the use of cadmium, mercury, lead, hexavalent chromium, and brominated fireretardants (PBB, PBDE) in electronics as of July 1, 2006.
*2REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals): More stringent control sys-tem targeting existing chemical substances and articles in Europe. As implied by the title, the regulation isintended to control chemical substances through registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction.
*3Indirect materials: facilities, equipment, construction, and expendable supplies for office and operation.
*4FUJIFILM Business Expert Corporation: a shared-service company that supports indirect operations that arecommon within Fujifilm Group companies.
Related page Page 67: Biodiversity Conservation
Related pages
Page 70: Contributing to Society
Page 73: Working Together with Local CommunitiesPage 84: Classification of social contribution activitiesCSR procurement2008 (Fiscal year) 2007 2006
Management of chemical content Toward CSR procurement (Fujifilm)
Green procurement
(Green suppliers: Attain goal of 80% green suppliers)
Purchasing policy regarding fair procurement (started in 1990)2005 2000
CSR procurement briefings with clients
FOCUS : Stakeholder DialogueMedium-term CSR Plan Highlights
37 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 36 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Priority Area
Strengthened Information Disclosure
This section summarizes our efforts to continually improve information disclosure,
another priority in our Medium-term CSR Plan.
FUJIFILM Holdings publishes its Sustainability Report every year
to share information on the Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities with
all our stakeholders. We further enriched the content in thisyear’s report by featuring specific case studies centered on pri-ority areas in our Medium-term CSR Plan. We also strength-ened CSR communications, including actively providinginformation on the scope and content of stakeholder dialoguesand Environmental Dialogue Meetings.incidents that require companywide action are discussed by theTotal Risk Management Committee or sub-committee, and quicklyand decisively handled in collaboration with related business divi-sions. Other less urgent PL incidents are discussed in regular meet-ings of the PL Committee for continuous quality improvement.Fujifilm posts customer alerts on its website whenever customernotification is necessary. In fiscal 2007, Fujifilm reported to NITE(the National Institute of Technology and Evaluation) two incidentsof product defects based on customer complaints received throughconsumer affairs centers. Neither incident, however, involved riskto the safety of customers. Looking ahead, Fujifilm will continue tothoroughly manage product safety and ensure the complete andaccurate disclosure of information.
Fuji Xerox has positioned the Fuji Xerox Product Safety KeyPrinciples as a top priority in its corporate standards. To preventthe occurrence of PL incidents in Japan or overseas, Fuji Xeroxhas implemented product safety reform across the entire productlife cycle, from planning to recycling. At the same time, the com-pany fosters employee awareness by conducting training basedon responsibility level. The basic stance for any PL incident is torespond and disclose information sincerely, fairly, and quickly.Incidents are initially reported to the escalation center throughthe PL Web and other channels. Potential risks to customer safetyand other potential risks are analyzed at special meetings, andcountermeasures are determined in line with the level of risk andurgency under the specific escalation system. A full response toeach incident must be completed within one month, and theproduct safety division provides individual divisions with detailedinformation on PL incidents so that they can be utilized to preventany recurrence right from the product development stage. Noincidents were reported from Fuji Xerox to NITE in fiscal 2007.The Fujifilm Group operates in a diversified range of businessfields. Fujifilm products play vital roles in society, in particular,they represent critical elements of information infrastructures,such as medical products including: endoscopes and X-raydiagnostic imaging systems, graphic systems for printing,recording media, highly functional materials, like flat panel dis-play materials and electronic materials, and copy machines.These products are essential for the recovery and restoration ofdisaster-stricken areas where the health needs of victims mustbe addressed and information networks reconstructed. 
Therefore, the Fujifilm Group must fulfill its responsibility to sup-ply products that are vital to public well-being and discloserelated information during disasters in addition to securing thesafety of its own employees, determining the impact on businessoperations, and taking prompt action to resume operations.
When a disaster occurs, Fujifilm sets up a disaster headquar-ters and convenes a risk response team comprised of ten sub-teams (listed below) and quickly and effectively implementscountermeasures across a wide range of areas from confirmingthe safety of employees to resuming manufacturing. The com-pany also ensures the uninterrupted provision of socially criticalFujifilm products centered on medical care and informationinfrastructures. Fuji Xerox maintains a similar system. FUJIFILMHoldings releases complete and fully integrated public reportson the status of the Fujifilm Group in time of disaster, includingthe resumption of production activities and the provision ofsocially critical products.In the future, personnel from FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm, andFuji Xerox will regularly gather to review emergency preparationand response manuals to further reinforce systems for promptlyand effectively managing risks if disaster strikes and improvingthe information disclosure.Steadily improving our sustainability report and
proactively releasing CSR informationStrengthening response to risk in the event of disasters and providing information on product supply
Effective internal utilization and disclosure of qualitative and quantitative CSR information
1. Compliance
2. Promotion of product safety measures3. Maintaining the emergency response system for product incidents4. Notifying customers of product safety information5. Providing employee education and training on product safetyFujifilm Product Safety Policy
1. Human safety 2. IT 3. PR 4. Information collection 5. Funds 6. Materials procurement 7. Logistics 8. Supply resumption 9. Affiliate companies 10. Customer support(Japan and abroad)
Risk response team at disaster headquarters (Fujifilm)1. Compliance2. Establishment of Fuji Xerox’s Action Plan3. Quality Control for Ensuring Product Safety4. Information Collection, Disclosure and Report of Product Safety Incidents5. Product Recall6. Preventive Measures of Product Safety Incidents and Employee TrainingFuji Xerox Product Safety Key Principles
Related page Page 79: Communication with Stakeholders
Related page Page 78: Product Safety Management System
URL Important information for our customers (Fujifilm)http://fujifilm.jp/important/index.html (in Japanese)National Institute of Technology and Evaluationhttp://www.nite.go.jp/index-e.htmlImportant information for our customers (Fuji Xerox)http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/news/notice.html (in Japanese)
Related page Page 45: Risk ManagementRelated pages
Page 8: Initiatives in the Medical Field
Page 12: Initiatives in the Printing FieldPage 16: Response to Climate ChangePage 66: Sustainable Use of WaterResponse after the Niigata 
Chuetsu-oki EarthquakeTOPIC
Following the Niigata Chuetsu-oki Earthquake, Niigata Fuji Xerox
Manufacturing cleared and reinforced buildings that had sus-tained such damage as collapsed ceilings and walls. At the sametime, Niigata Fuji Xerox confirmed the inventory of parts on handand resumed production three days after the earthquake, start-ing with compact printers. The production operations of seri-ously damaged facilities were shifted to other corporate factoriesand partners to quickly restore normal levels of operation.The Fujifilm Group donated a total of ¥30 million in relief aid toKashiwazaki City, Niigata Prefecture and other affected loca-tions. The Group also repaired and serviced Fuji Xerox productsat no charge.
Earthquake Disaster Aid for
Sichuan Province, ChinaTOPIC
FUJIFILM Holdings donated relief aid totaling RMB 3.75 million
(approx. ¥56 million) to the Red Cross Society of China and theChinese government for the victims of the earthquake inSichuan. The donation included medical X-ray films valued atRMB 1.75 million and the combined contributions with four othergroup companies, two in Japan (Fujifilm, Fuji Xerox) and two inChina (FUJIFILM (China) Investment, Fuji Xerox (China)).
Formulating an essential action plan 
against a pandemic influenza *and 
distributing leaflets to employeesTOPIC
FUJIFILM Holdings formulated basic measures to prepare for a
possible pandemic influenza. In addition to establishing a riskmanagement system to ensure the continuity of business opera-tions, we established prevention and stockpiling guidelines. TheGroup also set up standards of behavior at the occurrence of anoutbreak for deterring the spread of infection and distributedleaflets to employees. In this way, we prepare all possible crisismanagement measures in the event of a pandemic.
*Basic measures against a pandemic influenza: Pandemic measures against new strains of influen-
za associated with avian flu.
Earthquake occurred at 10:13 a.m., July 16, 2007
Collapsed partition and ceiling (left)July 19, 2007, manufacturing resumed and the first printer rolled off the lineone day after electricity was restored (right) In this report, we present examples of our CSR activities with
as much quantitative information as possible, which serves tofurther promote CSR activities within the Fujifilm Group whileencouraging the effective utilization of this information as refer-ence points for improvement.
Thorough product liability (PL) and 
accurate information disclosure
The Fujifilm Group not only ensures the thorough, safe manage-
ment of its products but also maintains a system for quicklyresponding and disclosing information in the event of incidentsinvolving its products. Since Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox handle differ-ent product lines, we have established separate safety manage-ment systems based on the risks related to each specificbusiness operation and market.
Product safety management at Fujifilm, including its affiliates, isimplemented rigorously and consistently based on its ProductSafety Policy and Product Safety Manual. The responsible organiza-tional entities report directly to the president, so that any neces-sary actions, even those that require companywide execution, canbe taken swiftly, firmly, and with close cooperation across theorganization. In response to the revised Consumer Product SafetyLaw, which went into force in May 2007, Fujifilm took action to col-lect and speed up communications by organizing PL reports into adatabase. The company began establishing a similar informationgathering system for overseas PL information in 2008. Serious PLMedium-term CSR Plan Highlights
39 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 38 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008In June 2007, the REACH Regulation went into force in the
European market. The regulation strictly requires enterprisesto conduct risk management activities and register the use ofchemicals, including approximately 100,000 existing chemi-cals as well as those present in manufactured products, whichhad not previously been subject to oversight. As a companyresponsible for the manufacture of chemical substances and awide variety of products, ranging from the mixing of chemicalsto the formation of final products, Fujifilm established in-housefacilities in 1975 for assessing the safety of chemical sub-stances and has been making every effort to thoroughly con-trol chemicals by investing our long-term know-how as achemical manufacturer.
In light of its achieving full compliance with the REACHRegulation, Fujifilm set up project teams in Europe and Japan tooversee the six-month pre-registration period starting June2008. We are proceeding with this effort while exchanging infor-mation with suppliers and discussing each item to be registered.We are currently registering regulated substances according tovolume by the deadlines indicated in the chart below. In addi-tion, we are obligated to notify customers regarding informationon the registration and safe use of articles containing sub-stances of very high concern (SVHC) as specified in REACH. Wehave started the first examination of articles manufactured fromchemical materials, including PS plates and photographic film,based on JAMP MSDSplus, and equipment and parts are beinginvestigated by tracking upstream to parts manufacturers.In response to strengthened regulations governing the manage-ment of chemical substances and chemical content repre-sented by REACH, RoHS *
3, and GHS, Fujifilm and its affiliates
are restructuring existing systems and databases and revisingtheir global operations guidelines. Our integrated managementsystem for chemical substances, which is currently being devel-oped, will integrate information and systems that had been sep-arately managed toward unifying the control of substances,ranging from chemical substances to the chemical content ofarticles. We will begin with the reconstruction of our controlsystem for chemical substances in 2008. We intend tostrengthen governance across the entire Group and continuallyimprove the effectiveness and efficiency of controls by sharinginformation on chemical substances with the individual compa-nies of the Fujifilm Group. 
Fujifilm has long been aggressively moving to thoroughly controlchemical substances and disclose information. In addition toreleasing MSDS for chemical products, we have taken the initia-tive to create our own Article Information Sheets (AIS) for mate-rial products including photographic film and papers, PS platesand flat panel display parts, and released them on our website.
JAMP (Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium) is across-industry organization established to unify data exchangemethods for chemical content of articles in response torequirements governing the management of chemical contentand the provision of information under the REACH Regulationenforced in Europe. As a founding member, Fujifilm has activelyparticipated in JAMP since its establishment. We also led in theadoption of JAMP MSDSplus *
4, formulated as a common chem-
ical substance information format for chemical products, andbegan making it available on our website in March 2008. Weare also preparing our response to JAMP AIS, a format for pro-viding information on the chemical content of articles, whichwas set up in June.
Note: Regarding information provision on specific chemical substances in products,
though Fujifilm has been heretofore adhering to MSDSplus and AISplus in conformitywith the guidelines of Japan Chemical Industry Association, we will adopt the JAMP for-mat toward ensuring commonality across the entire industry.Controls and collaboration, undertaken at both the global and
local levels, are essential for the company in promoting envi-ronmental activities and addressing related laws and regula-tions worldwide. At the Fujifilm Group, we implementgroup-wide efforts that include overseas subsidiaries toadvance key initiatives under the Fujifilm Group Green Policy,our medium-term environmental policy.Specifically, we have been holding Fujifilm Group InternationalEnvironment Meetings since 1991 to share information on envi-ronmental policy initiatives and responses to regulations ineach country. The planning and promotion of global environ-mental initiatives are also an important part of the meeting.
The 12th meeting was held over four days from November 5 to 8,2007, with 18 environmental representatives from 15 overseassubsidiaries and a total of 70 environmental representatives fromFUJIFILM Corporation and Fujifilm Group companies in Japan par-ticipating. At this year’s meeting, participants discussed a numberof environmental issues, such as improvements in eco-efficiency,the REACH*
1Regulation, which was enforced in Europe in June
2007, and the GHS*2system, which is increasingly being adopted
in many countries around the world. Regarding REACH, in particu-lar, participants shared the most recent details about the regula-tion and specific areas requiring clarification, such as thedefinition of “articles” (products). They also reviewed the type andstatus of surveys underway in Europe and Japan.
We will continue to enforce our governance over environmentalinitiatives by sharing information and strengthening mutualcommunication, both globally and locally, and promote environ-mental activities across the entire Group.Strengthening controls at global and local levels
Sharing information through International Environment MeetingsA shared, integrated management system for
chemical substances within the GroupDisclosing chemical content through MSDS, JAMP MSDSplus, and JAMP AIS
Responding to GHS RegulationComplying with REACH Regulation
Related pages
Page 44: Stricter governance of environmental laws and regulations
Page 58: Design for EnvironmentPage 60: Chemical Substance Management for Safety and 
the Environment
Page 62: Chemical Content ManagementPage 86: Environmental AspectsPage 90: Environmental-related complaints, examples of 
legal violations and responses in fiscal 2007Registration schedule for complying with the REACH Regulation
Enforced June 1, 2007 Started June 1, 2008 December 1, 2008 November 30, 
2010June 1, 201 1 May 31, 2013 May 31, 2018
Registration of 
substances manufactured/imported between 1 and 99 
tons ⁄ year  
Inform customers (after SVHC is identified)Existing chemical substances
Lead time Pre-registration (6 months)Registration of 
substances manufactured/imported at or above 
1,000 tons ⁄ year and other*Registration of 
substances manufactured/imported between 100 and 
999 tons ⁄ year
SVHC substances 
contained in articles
The list of SVHC 
will be published no later than two years after enforcement. Notify the European Chemicals Agency*Aquatic organism toxicity (R50/53) of substances at or above 100 tons ⁄ year and 
Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic (CMR, category 1 and 2) substances at or above 1 ton ⁄ year.
*1REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals): More stringent control system targeting existing chemical substances and articles in Europe. As implied by the title, the regulation is intended to control
chemical substances through registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction.
*2GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals): A globally unified system for classifying and labeling chemical substances. The GHS system is applied as a global guideline for classifying hazardous andtoxic substances in chemical products and labeling and extends to safety labels for chemicals and the distribution of safety data sheets as well as the display on the products.
*3RoHS Directive (Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment): Restrictions governing the use of certain harmful substances in electrical and electronic devices in Europe, and restrict-ing the use of cadmium, mercury, lead, hexavalent chromium, and brominated fire retardants (PBB, PBDE) in electronics as of July 1, 2006.
*4JAMP MSDSplus: Information sheet for chemical content proposed by JAMP, which complements MSDS in response to the REACH Regulation.
Cardboard carton reflecting compliance with GHS (left) and bottle label (right)Product safety data sheet website
(Top page) Product safety data sheet website (AIS)
URL “For safe handling of chemical products”
http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/msds/ (in Japanese)
Priority Area
Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations
In this section, we report on the progress and achievements in efforts to comply with environmental laws and 
regulations, a priority area in the Fujifilm Group’s Medium-term CSR Plan.
We have completed revising our labeling and MSDS (Material
Safety Data Sheets) for products, including those maintained ininventories, that contain regulated substances in accordancewith the revised Industrial Safety and Health Law (enforced inDecember 2006), which incorporated GHS. In addition, forproducts that are newly covered due to the revised thresholdvalues, we have improved our MSDS database system andupdated the data sheets for products including targeted sub-stances in July 2008. In regard to the labeling of products thatcontain targeted substances, we plan to completely comply bythe end of November 2008.41 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 40 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008CSR Activities Report
Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI ; “AzumayaI” (Quire 49), Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum
One autumn evening, after a long absence, Niounomiya visited Nakanokimi, who was expecting a child. In an effort to console her, Niounomiya sat near the opening to the garden and played the biwa. Nakanokimi listened
attentively for a while to his performance, as if to forget her resentment, but she wept yet again. She composed a poem express ing her feelings saying, “I can see you are tired of me by your attitude.”The CSR Activities Report features the Fujifilm
Group’s extensive CSR efforts organized by theme.Activities that the Fujifilm Group regards as impor-tant are discussed as well as stakeholder interests.
Compliance 42
Risk Management 45
Facilitating Personnel Development and Achievement 
at Fujifilm 46
Facilitating Personnel Development and Achievement at Fuji Xerox 48
Creating a Safe, Healthy Workplace for All Employees 50
Toward Enhancing Customer Satisfaction 52
Fujifilm Group Green Policy 54
Environmental Burdens of the Fujifilm Group 56
Stakeholder Dialogue (Reducing Environmental Burdens)
Design for Environment 58
Chemical Substance Management 
for Safety and the Environment 60
Chemical Content Management 62
Effective Waste Management and Recycling 64
Sustainable Use of Water 66
Biodiversity Conservation 67
Stakeholder Dialogue 
(Biodiversity—A Dialogue with the Future Generation)
Stakeholder Dialogue 
(Biodiversity—A Dialogue with Experts)
Contributing to Society 70
Working Together with Local Communities 73The general interpretation of compliance as simply adherence
to regulations can frequently lead to the pitfall that everythingis fine as long as we simply follow the letter of the law. TheFujifilm Group interprets compliance as the appropriate actionof individuals and companies in accordance with ethical princi-ples and common sense, in addition to observing the laws. Webelieve that we achieve compliance by flexibly responding witha keen sensibility to the needs of society. We steadfastly advance compliance activities across the Group,with our two operating companies, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, over-seeing their respective affiliates in Japan and overseas.
In April 2007, FUJIFILM Holdings established its Code ofConduct, which applies to the entire Fujifilm Group. The Groupsubsequently released it to all members of the Group at thecompliance information meeting held at the beginning of eachfiscal year. Then in October 2007, we distributed the 
Code of
Conduct Guidebook , which explains the Code of Conduct,
related laws and regulations, corporate rules and case studies,to deepen understanding of the Code of Conduct.
We focused on instilling the Code of Conduct throughout over-seas affiliates in fiscal 2007. We held a compliance informationmeeting for Japanese staff (managerial level etc.) at 27 overseasaffiliates in November 2007 and discussed measures for dis-seminating the Code of Conduct. As a joint effort with Fujifilm,each overseas affiliate will proceed with the compliance promo-tion plan for each overseas affiliate. The Code of Conduct andthe 
Code of Conduct Guidebook were also distributed to all of
the employees in the overseas affiliates of Fuji Xerox and stepsare being taken to ensure the guidelines are understood and fol-lowed. In addition, we will translate materials such as the 
Code
of Conduct Guidebook , notifications of punitive actions, and
case studies into English and steadily distribute them to over-seas affiliates. As part of our compliance activities in Japan, weheld seminars on compliance in November 2007 for executiveofficers of Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, and in August 2007 for execu-tive officers of company affiliates, with guest lecturer ProfessorIwao Taka from the Reitaku University graduate school.
nates?” and “Would you contact the Compliance ConsultingFacility if you face problems with laws, rules or ethics in every-day operations?” Given these results, Fujifilm strengthened itsfocus on explaining the risk reporting system and the purposeof the compliance consultation services through complianceinformation meetings and other events. As a result, responsesto these questions in fiscal 2007 showed improvement.
Fuji Xerox and its affiliates 
Fuji Xerox released Compliance Guidelines that provide outlines
of various laws and ordinances in the context of the business
operations of Fuji Xerox, such as staffing on an outsourcing basisand exports and imports. At the same time, basic training onlaws and ordinances and programs for preventing illegal prac-tices was provided in addition to education based on theEmployee Code of Conduct to more thoroughly instill the aware-ness of compliance among theemployees of Fuji Xerox and its affil-iates. As a result, nearly 100% ofemployees and executive officers ofFuji Xerox and its affiliates agreedto sign a written proclamation dis-tributed in 2007 declaring that theiractions complied with the contentof the ALL-FX Code of Conduct.This attests to the high complianceawareness of people at Fuji Xerox.Compliance
For the Fujifilm Group, compliance includes the appropriate actions of both individuals and companies in accordance
with high ethical principles and common sense, as well as strict observance of laws and regulations.CSR Activities Report
43 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 42 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Compliance in the Fujifilm Group
Fujifilm and its affiliatesFujifilm and its affiliates conduct annual compliance awarenesssurveys involving all employees. The result of the fifth surveyconducted in fiscal 2007 revealed that employee complianceawareness had improved for all questions compared with sur-vey from the previous year. Up to last year, surveys revealed arelatively low number of affirmative responses to the questions:“Would you report to the company if you discovered impropri-eties on the part of your colleagues, superiors or subordi-Raising compliance awareness
No. of sites (No. of participants)
North America 10 (40)
Europe 10 (60)
East Asia 3 (20)Overseas affiliates of Fujifilm
China 4 (58)AreaOverseas compliance training (Fiscal 2007)
Proclamation (left), ALL-FX Code of
Conduct Guidebook (center), ALL-
FX Code of Conduct (right)Compliance information meeting for overseas Group companies (left), and seminar on
compliance for executive officers of the Group companies (right)
95% 78%Questions 2006 2007
Do you keep the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior  and 
Code of Conduct  booklets in a place where you can immediately 
refer to them at anytime?
84% —
90% —
82% 68%
87% 63%83% 67%87% 76%88% 77%
88% 58%87% 64%Results of compliance awareness survey
(Fujifilm and its affiliates) 
Survey subjects: Executive officers and employees (including agency contract employees) of FUJIFILM Holdings, FUJIFILM 
Business Expert, and Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates (a total of 23, 195) Of this group, 20,268 persons responded.Do you understand the content of Fujifilm Group Charter for 
Corporate Behavior  and Code of Conduct  booklets and have you 
signed the proclamation?
Have managers at your workplace conducted a compliance 
information meeting?
Are you working with a clear understanding of laws and rules that 
are applicable to your job responsibility?
Do your colleagues, superiors and subordinates work with a 
clear understanding of laws and rules that are applicable to their 
job responsibilities?
Do your superiors place emphasis on compliance?
Has the awareness that compliance is important spread 
throughout workplace?
Do you believe there are no compliance problems at your workplace?
Would you report to the company if you discovered improprieties on 
the part of your colleagues, superiors or subordinates?
Would you contact the Compliance Consulting Facility if you face 
problems with laws, rules or ethics in everyday operations that you 
cannot resolve with managers?
Compliance training for overseas companiesTo prevent the recurrence of actions that have led to punitive
responses, the Fujifilm Group discloses the details of theactions and the content of punishment throughout the com-pany via the Intranet. Major cases of punitive actions includedviolations of traffic laws and regulations, incidents that mayhave resulted in the leakage of confidential information, andinappropriate management of corporate assets.Disclosure of punitive actions
The Fujifilm Group has long been working to ensure compliancewith the Act Concerning Prohibition of Private Monopolizationand Maintenance of Fair Trade (Antimonopoly Act). In responseto the government’s recent strengthened enforcement as wellas the necessity to create a competition (antitrust) law compli-ance structure as a part of internal control systems, the Groupconducted an overall review of the Group’s existing compliancesystem and began introducing and implementing the new com-pliance program in Group companies in Japan, the UnitedStates and Europe in October 2007.Specifically, we updated in-house rules governing compliancewith the applicable competition (antitrust) laws. We also estab-lished a compliance system under the competition (antitrust)law compliance officer (competition (antitrust) law CPO), creat-ing a structure in which every company and every division con-ducts periodic self-monitoring.In addition, based on recent trends, such as changes in thebusiness environment and the revision of the Act, we fullyrevised the 
Competition (Antitrust) Law Compliance Manual ,
which outlines the code of conduct for compliance in dailyoperations. We also conducted seminars and training sessionsat Group companies in Japan and overseas to deepen employ-ees understanding of the competition (antitrust) law, and thor-oughly instill the compliance program. Fujifilm held competition(antitrust) law seminars (a total of 50 sessions involving 1,743participants) for sales representatives, including domestic affili-ates across Japan, from October through December 2007.Fuji Xerox published the 
Compliance Guideline for the
Competition (Antitrust) Law and the company conducted a
training program for its employees and those of domestic affili-ates and sales companies. Fuji Xerox plans to adopt the com-pliance program for its overseas affiliates in Asia and Oceania. With regard to compliance with the Subcontract Act, Fujifilmreviews the status of compliance on the occasion when theJapan Fair Trade Commission or Small and Medium EnterpriseAgency conduct annual inspections of the company. We alsotake appropriate measures to dissemi-nate the provisions of the SubcontractAct. For example, we published a man-ual reflecting the amendments to theSubcontract Act in 2004 and conductedseminars for personnel in charge of pro-curement in factories and business divi-sions. Fuji Xerox also conducts periodicreviews of compliance with the Act inaddition to publishing the guidelines.
Compliance with the competition (antitrust) law
and the Subcontract ActIn Japan, exporters are required to demonstrate responsibility and
exercise judgment under the security export control system in themanagement of their export operations. Fujifilm designed its com-pliance program with the guidance of the Ministry of Economy,Trade and Industry. The company’s export controls cover all typesof commodities as well as provisions for technologies. Each divi-sion has designated a person in charge of export controls.
The basic components of export control include screening buy-ers and verifying that the exporting of commodities or technolo-gies meets regulations. Even when commodities are intendedfor commercial purposes, the end users and applications mustbe reviewed to prevent them from being diverted into militaryuse. In recent years, we have conducted exports under the U.S.Export Administration Regulations as well as the JapaneseForeign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. We will con-tinually improve our internal systems to ensure secure and effi-cient export controls by proactively disseminating informationrelated to this issue.Strengthening export controls
Competition (Antitrust) Law
Compliance ManualResponse to Air Pollution Prevention Law 
Fujifilm conducts reviews of compliance with the Air PollutionPrevention Law to strengthen these efforts and to conductmore strict control (soot, NOx and SOx). As part of theseactivities, maintenance inspections of the 10 boilers forpower generation and air conditioning were conducted in fis-cal 2007, led by staff in the Head Office with the participationof operators from each site as well as in-house advisors.Participants evaluated the current system, primarily from theperspective of compliance, incorporating lessons learnedfrom previous violations of the Air Pollution Prevention Lawrelated to soot emissions reported by other companies inJapan. Examples involve incidents of continuing to operatefacilities that are releasing volumes ofsoot in excess of regulatory stan-dards, and falsifying monitoring data.We will continue to comply with thelaw and utilize the improvements iden-tified by the reviews by applying theminto daily operations.Fujifilm, including production and sales companies, endeavorsto comply with environmental laws and regulations and is sys-tematically phasing in independent control standards to managewastes, wastewater, emissions, and soil (see table below). Forinstance, in regard to wastewater management, we convened ameeting in fiscal 2006 to cross-check the wastewater manage-ment system at each factory and laboratory. By incorporatinginto their operations the feedback and recommendations pre-sented at the meeting, each of our workplaces is striving to pre-vent or reduce emissions of waterpollutants. In addition, independentcontrol standards for the emissions oflegally regulated water pollutants arebeing established at each workplace tostrengthen emissions monitoring.Dealing with asbestos
Fujifilm has conducted surveys of asbestos contained in itsproducts (including medical equipment and graphic systems’equipment) as well as asbestos used in buildings, facilities andequipment at the production divisions of every Fujifilm site since2005. Fujifilm has no current issues related to asbestos. Thecompany will implement any necessary actions in accordancewith the rules and guidelines set forth by the government.
1. Products Fujifilm completed a survey of all products currently on sale.None of these contains asbestos. We disclose information onany products containing asbestos on the Fujifilm website. 2. Health issues and consultation 
Fujifilm has confirmed that no current or former employees expe-rience health problems related to their work.We received health consultation requests from several current andformer employees. The staff in the personnel and labor division ofeach respective site interviewed these employees and arrangedhealth consultations and check-ups; no health issues were found.The Personnel and Labor division or Health Management Centerof each site will promptly respond as necessary to any request forconsultation or examination related to asbestos. 
3. Buildings (factories, offices employee dormitories,athletic facilities, and buildings not currently in use)Fujifilm thoroughly reviewed the design drawings for companybuildings and conducted on-site inspections of areas whereasbestos might enter the atmosphere. Eleven buildings werefound to contain a total of 23 areas of potential exposure.Required work for all buildings was completed in fiscal 2005.We are currently responding to the amended legal standards(content: from 1% to 0.1%, additional types of asbestos broughtunder regulation). 4. Production facilities 
Production facilities use components that contain asbestos forheat insulation or sealing material. We believe there were noasbestos emissions from these components and, therefore, noimpact on health. 
Replacement of facility components are done in accordancewith the provisions of the work safety guidelines. We completedtesting of new components to replace the existing asbestos-containing components, and starting in fiscal 2007, onlyasbestos-free components are purchased.   5. Experimental facilities (laboratories, and the technicaland quality assurance sections)As in the inspections of our production facilities, we confirmedthat none of these facilities present health risks to workers.Every division conducted an asbestos survey of their facilities inMay 2006, and equipment is replaced or disposed of in accor-dance with required procedures.Stricter governance of environmental laws 
and regulationsCSR Activities Report Compliance
45 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 44 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Maintenance inspection for
boilers for power generationand air conditioning
Progress of strengthening environmental governance
Waste management
Wastewater
management
Atmospheric emissions
management(Overall management) Fujifilm Ecology & Quality Management Division
Soil managementFrom fiscal 2004
From fiscal 2006
From fiscal 2007
(as required)From fiscal 2007 From fiscal 2007
From fiscal 2008 (planned)
From fiscal 2008 (planned)Fujifilm sites Production companies Sales companies
(as required)Lack of awareness of compliance often leads to increased risk.
Consequently, compliance and risk management represent twosides of the same coin. A dedicated department in each operat-ing company of the Fujifilm Group manages risks in a compre-hensive and integrated manner, recognizing that promotingcompliance and managing risks associated with business opera-tions is a single continuum. In conducting risk management activities, both of the operatingcompanies, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, receive reports on risk pre-vention and incidents from their respective affiliates.Risk Management
We have designed a secure and reliable risk management system to safeguard against 
any actual or potential breach of compliance.
Risk management at the Fujifilm Group
Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates have been focusing theirefforts on the early detection and forecasting of risks. Fujifilmappoints risk managers (general manager level or higher) foreach division and each domestic affiliate to evaluate the proba-bilities of various risks and the level of impact on business oper-ations, and then to identify critical risk issues. Based on thisinformation, a concrete action plan is formulated and imple-mented within the context of actual job operations. In fiscal2007, 42 divisions of Fujifilm and 26 domestic affiliates imple-mented action plans.Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates identify areas such asproduct quality assurance, information security and disasterpreparation as key risk issues. Specifically, the companyestablished an Earthquake Response Committee in fiscal 1992and implemented measures such as introducing a system toconfirm employee safety and for maintaining a stock of emer-gency supplies in the event of a major earthquake. In fiscal2007, Fuji Xerox renovated the system for confirmingemployee safety to ensure a more immediate response.Business continuity plans (BCPs) were formulated at majorproduction sites of consumables to facilitate rapid response atthe very earliest stages of disaster.Risk preventive activities
Fujifilm and its affiliates issue the Compendium of Information
Security Case Studies , primarily based on actual information
security incidents, and distributes it to employees. In fiscal2007, we thoroughly provided usage guidelines and considera-tions for the use of USB flash drives, in particular, based onpast incidents. Fujifilm also conducted a study session for responsible adminis-trators on personal information management to reinforce themanagement of personal information handled by subcontractorsusing a case method. At the same time, we surveyed the man-agement of personal information by subcontractors and con-firmed the existence of subcontract agreements and thesecurity status of electronic data handled by subcontractors.Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates conducted an e-learning-based education program based on past incidents to preventfuture information security incidents. As part of a security cam-paign conducted in October 2007, Fuji Xerox also reviewed theimplementation of security measures for notebook PCs and USBflash drives to ensure rules had been applied thoroughly. In providing products and services to our customers, wealways place the highest priority on protecting their informa-tion assets. For serious risk incidents, we have developed andimplemented a high-level safety management measureenabling us to effectively prevent accidental leakage of infor-mation and theft by employees. Information security and 
protecting personal information
Fujifilm and its domestic and overseas affiliates promote activi-
ties to prevent or avert the emergence and spread of risk.Whenever a risk or potential risk arises, Fujifilm implements uni-fied control and response under its risk reporting system. In fis-cal 2007, 55 incidents were reported from Fujifilm and 50incidents were reported from its affiliates to the office. Three ofthese were dealt with by the Total Risk Management Committeeor appropriate subcommittee *
1. The remaining incidents were
handled within the division in which the risk arose under instruc-tions from the office. At Fuji Xerox, 23 risks were reported in fiscal 2007. Five ofthese were discussed and appropriately handled at the Risksand Ethics Conference, the top organization under the com-pany’s risk management system. The remaining incidents werehandled by the respective supervisory department, sales com-pany, or affiliate in which the incident occurred.
Response and system 
for handling the occurrence of risksWastewater processing facility
at Fujifilm Kanagawa Factory
Related pages
Page 64: Effective Waste Management and Recycling
Page 89: Volume of atmospheric emissions (Consolidated); Amount of
water pollutant emissions (Consolidated); Surveying andremediation soil and underground water pollution conditions
Page 90: Environmental monitoring; Legal compliance and reports on
complaints; Installing plumbing and tanks above ground
Related pages
Pages 76-77: Compliance and Risk Management
Related pages
Pages 76-77: Compliance and Risk Management
*1Subcommittee: A subcommittee consisting of staff from specific divisions is set up for each risk area, such as
products, the environment, overseas safety, exports, information leakage, corporate attack, and disasters. The
appropriate subcommittee immediately reviews necessary matters, including concrete actions, and overseesresponses to risks as they arise.CSR Activities ReportCSR Activities Report
47 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 46 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Announcing project content and recommendations within the company 
We held 27 briefings at six workplaces in Japan on proposals from the F-POWERProject Promotion Team, including changing mindsets related to the workstyles of female employees, backing up systematic development and growth,improving systems for balancing work and life while raising children, andstrengthening career guidance and support. (June and July 2007)Expanding provision of information for women employees We opened a special website for the F-POWER Project and disseminated infor-mation on the project as well as the childcare support system. (July 2007) 1. Changing mindsets related to the work styles of
female employeesFacilitating Personnel Development and
Achievement at Fujifilm
Fujifilm develops human resources, the driving force of our Second Foundation, and 
provides ample opportunities for people to demonstrate their full capabilities.
TOPICCOMMENTS
Offering flexible work styles, with evaluation based on social contribution 
as well as business performance
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc. offers a variety of work style options for employees with due consid-
eration for different lifestyles under the philosophy that employees are one of the mostvaluable assets of the company. To deal with personal circumstances such as raising chil-dren, caring for the elderly, acquiring academic degrees or avoiding traffic congestion,approximately 40% of our employees participate in one of the following options: flexible,part-time, summer hours, job sharing or telecommuting. The company has adopted itsown personnel evaluation program, in which employees are evaluated for their achieve-ments in volunteer and other social contribution activities as well as for factors directlyrelated to their business performance, such as productivity and efficiency and level oftrust with colleagues and customers. For the local community, the company encouragesvolunteer activities that provide business knowledge to students who are getting ready tojoin the workforce. The company currently sponsors 10 mentors. Students visit our officeat least three times during a 15-week course term. They consult with mentors on futurecareer paths and receive guidance from mentors. In addition, the company invites 30 stu-dents every year to the office to learn about our business operations.Two years have passed since we launched the F-POWER Project forestablishing a corporate culture in which female employees couldtake on more important roles. F-POWER stands for “FujifilmPositive Women Encouraging Renovation,” and embodies our desireto create a genuinely strong corporate structure at Fujifilm in whichevery woman can perform to her full potential and take on greaterresponsibilities. The team, which is primarily made up of women,has considered issues that must be addressed and have been mak-ing steady results. We will continue to firmly establish each currentinitiative and consider new initiatives while taking into accountemployee feedback and encouraging employee involvement.
From left: Ms. Janet Schiavone, Mentor, National Recruitment and
Selection Manager, FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.; Ms. Huesne Daglioglu,Westchester (New York) Community College student fromGermany; Ms. Maria Del Monte, Mentor, HR & Diversity Manager,FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.Takako Negishi
Leader, F-POWER Project Promotion TeamOperations Manager, Personnel Division, FUJIFILM Corporation
The ideal human resources at Fujifilm
Legs and hips● Grasp the facts 
and essence of the issueEyes, ears, nose, skin and sixth sense
= ability to collect information
● Grasp the essence of an issue and 
develop winning strategies 
and tacticsHead (Brain)
= analyze and formulate 
strategies and tactics
● Develop personal 
presentation capabilities 
and burnish your characterFace and Posture
= posture, attitude, intelligence 
and attractive personality
● Fully express and communicate 
one’s own ideasMouth
= ability to express and discuss
● Be interested in others, 
behave thoughtfully 
and gain understanding from othersHeart
= conscience, interest, empathy, 
and warmth
Legs and hips
● Exercise initiative, accelerate 
the pace of work and act quicklyLegs and hips
= ability to act; 
hands-on approach
● Determination with courage; 
just get started, then push throughGuts and Stomach
= courage, audacity and guts● Improve techniques and skills and 
as necessary, exercise powerArms and hands
= techniques and skills, 
exercise power plays as necessaryMessage from a member of
the F-POWER Project
Since fiscal 2005, Fujifilm has been continuously enhancing its childcare support system
under the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. InSeptember 2007, the company acquired the “Kurumin,” Next-generation Accreditationmark as company that supports employees while they are raising children.Expanded support during maternity and childcare leaves 
We created a system allowing female employees to attend seminars duringmaternity or childcare leaves. We also send to their homes documents that aredistributed internally as well as providing access to the F-POWER Project web-site. (January 2008)Improved support for female employees who return to the workplace after leaves for maternity and raising children 
We hold a three-party meeting with every female employee upon return to theworkplace. In addition, we established a system for easing the return to work byensuring that procedures are clearer and begin earlier, such as conducting apreparatory interview four months prior to the employee’s return. (January 2008)
Consultation and support system for female employeesWe opened a consulting service for female employees and started providingconsultation on balancing a career and family life, career direction and otherissues. (September 2007) Promotion teamWe established an organizational entity to take responsibility for actualizing thecontent of recommendations at each workplace and Personnel Division.(September 2007)Career design seminars We held career design seminars inviting the same lecturer to six workplaces inJapan. About 1,500 people including male employees attended. (December2007 to February 2008) New education programs 
We conducted career design seminars for general employees, a coaching pro-gram for supervisors, and a managerial seminar to guide managers in promotingthe advancement of female employees. (2007 to 2008)
Growth targets and a foundation for taking up challenge We enhanced our management-by-objective system to clarify growth targets,reinforce connections to higher-level goals, improve the supervisory approvalprocess and strengthen the involvement of supervisors.2. Backing up the systematic development and 
growth of female employees4. Enhancing career guidance and 
a psychological support system
System for supporting work-life balance after giving birth andwhile raising children We established a system including such components as reduced workinghours, the provision of lump-sum payments for the birth of children, leavesand the use of stock leave for fertility treatment. Other actions include animproved nursing care leave system and an expansion in the range of employ-ees eligible for exemption from extended working hours and holiday work.(July 2007 and April 2008)3. Enhancing the system for supporting work-life balance
while raising childrenThe Fujifilm Group has positioned the current period as its
Second Foundation, during which we are focusing on creatingand developing growth businesses. Achieving this SecondFoundation requires us to strengthen human resources and cre-ate a working environment in which diverse human resourcesperform to their maximum potential.Strengthening individual capabilities and 
eliciting outstanding performances from a diverse workforce
We strategically develop personnel to maximize the capabilities
of each individual employee. In these efforts, we place specialpriority on strengthening the mind (will) and processes (tactics).To strengthen the mind, we conduct seminars in which werepeatedly emphasize the importance of instilling a spirit ofchallenge in young employees with less than three years experi-ence at the company. We also encourage employees in mid-level and managerial positions to pursue self-improvement andcomplete tasks while involving those around them.To strengthen the processes, we train young employees toacquire basic techniques required for maximum achievementwhile training those in mid-level and higher positions toenhance their strategic and critical thinking as well as manage-ment capabilities for mobilizing others. In addition, while utiliz-ing these training sessions, we develop operational capabilitiesmainly through recurring on-the-job training.Training programs that support 
human resource development
With the goal of securing outstanding human resources as a
Group, Fujifilm Group Joint Company Seminars for new gradu-ates were held with Fujifilm, Fuji Xerox, FUJINON and otherGroup affiliates in Tokyo and Osaka in fiscal 2007 with manynew graduates attending. In addition, we acquire a wealth oftalent by employing mature workers with significant experiencein a various fields and current non-regular employees as regularemployees, as well as by re-employing retired employees.We are also implementing a number of initiatives to develop theindividual capabilities of diverse human resources for outstand-
ing long-term performance. In concrete terms, we set up the
F-POWER Project Promotion Team in collaboration with laborand management and expanded initiatives for promoting theachievements of female employees. This program is helping tocreate a corporate culture in which every employee can makemost of his or her abilities.We will continue to raise awareness in our offices and revieweach employee’s work style and operational efficiency, ulti-mately leading to an effective work-life balance. To elicit outstanding performances from 
a diverse workforceTo achieve its Second Foundation, Fujifilm expects each
employee to become a genuine professional. To this end, everyemployee must combine and strengthen all their capabilities.The required human resources realize a positive spiral, in whichthey grow through their work experience and then directenhanced capabilities to perform work with even greater value.The ideal human resources at FujifilmRelated page
Page 81: Personnel and Labor (Fujifilm)
Major achievements of the F-POWER ProjectCSR Activities Report
49 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 48 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Facilitating Personnel Development and
Achievement at Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox values each of our employees and strives to draw out their full capabilities by establishing 
an environment in which diverse employees can demonstrate their abilities.
Employees placing top priority on customer 
satisfaction and demonstrating an adventurous 
pioneer spirit, high ethical standards, joy and 
fulfillment, scientific thinking, professionalism, 
and respect for diversityStrong, kind and interesting company 
Marino Waem
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NV
Odette Cappaert
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NV
Fuji Xerox values every employee and has been developing a
working environment to draw out their maximum abilities bygradually introducing a variety of systems since the late 1980s,including childcare leave, reduced working hours for childcare,and flextime. On the basis of the Second Foundation thatFujifilm Group is pursuing, Fuji Xerox implemented aggressiveefforts in fiscal 2007 to cultivate human resources as the mainengine for the growth of Fuji Xerox.Fuji Xerox will continue to provide opportunities for employeeswith different personalities and backgrounds to develop abilitiesin an independent and self-reliant manner.Valuing each employee and utilizing 
their maximum potential Personnel development at Fuji Xerox is categorized by
employee function and area of specialization, and is centeredon basic training, management training and specialized training.Basic training is provided in stages to employees from the pointthey enter the company up to their mid-30s, and focuses onaspects that are vital for performing their job responsibilities,such as scientific thinking, finance and globalization.Management training offers techniques for personnel evalua-tion, labor management, policy management and other areas.Specialized training transfers specific knowledge and methodsrequired for each organization, such as sales and technology.A part of these training programs currently cover employees atFuji Xerox as well as its affiliates. The company is planning toexpand the scope of these programs while continually improv-ing our training and educational facilities.Training that supports personnel development
Fuji Xerox strives to create an office environment and corpo-rate culture in which every employee is able to perform to theirmaximum potential. A universal design will be applied for facilities at the researchand development site, scheduled for completion in March 2010in the Minato Mirai area of Yokohama, to establish an environ-ment in which every employee can work comfortably.We have also introduced the Second Life Program to advancethe deployment of human resources with outstanding abilitiesand enthusiasm or support their job transfers. In addition to thereemployment of retired employees, this program serves as ago-between to facilitate their reemployment with and dispatchto affiliates and companies outside the Group.
Furthermore, we are establishing an environment in which morefemale employees are able to aggressively pursue their careers.In April 2008, we improved and updated our existing childcaresupport system (e.g., improving the reemployment system for for-mer employees who had left the company to raise children andextending the period for reduced working hours for childcare.)
Looking ahead, Fuji Xerox will continue to reform its worksiteculture and promote a healthy work-life balance to allow tal-ented employees to fully demonstrate their abilities.The enhanced performance of a diverse and 
flexible workforceFuji Xerox aims to become a “strong,” “kind” and “interesting”
company. The company is strong in terms of delivering excellentproducts and services that satisfy customers and also reward itsshareholders. The company is kind in its contributions to localand global communities, environmental conservation, ethics andcorporate citizenship. As an interesting company, it provides anenvironment in which employees are able to demonstrate theircreativity with a sense of personal growth.
For a company to achieve these goals, it must have people whoare able to think and act on their own initiative and see tasksthrough to completion. Concretely, as stated in “SharedValues,” our corporate philosophy, we expect our employees toalways place top priority on customer satisfaction while demon-strating an adventurous pioneer spirit, high ethical standards,joy and fulfillment, scientific thinking, and professionalism.The ideal human resources at Fuji XeroxRelated page Page 82: Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)
Fuji Xerox regards a healthy work-life balance as an innovative change in work
styles. Advancing a healthy work-life balance will boost productivity across theentire organization by raising the morale of a diverse workforce as well as facili-tating the demonstration of each and every employee’s full potential. It alsomakes possible a more time-efficient work style that meets the specific lifeneeds of all employees. Furthermore, instilling the philosophy and value of diver-sity and work-life balance corresponds with Fuji Xerox’s personnel policy cen-tered on balancing individual abilities, jobs, and compensation with his or herrole at the core. Therefore, we recognize this as an extremely important effort.Purpose of promoting work-life balanceFor Fuji Xerox to continue existing as a corporation customers choose to sup-port, the company must create an environment for fostering the engagementand enthusiasm of a diverse workforce, one which drives the company’s busi-ness processes and exhibits its own capabilities. In this sense, our greatestchallenge for the future is to make our systems fully practical not only from theperspectives of supporting a healthy balance between work and family but alsoreinforcing the company’s competitiveness and revitalizing its human resources.
Society, individuals and corporations are undergoing rapid change, and thereforeemployees are shifting their focus from the deployment level of various corpo-rate systems to developing their own careers and a sense of personal fulfillment.They are now asking questions such as, “Am I performing to my maximum poten-tial?” and “Although the personnel system in principle treats men and womenthe same, does discrimination continue to appear in actual promotions to mana-gerial positions and opportunities to take on greater challenges?” Given this situ-ation, it is increasingly important to actively cultivate diversity and a healthywork-life balance within the framework of the overall personnel system.
Recognizing the need for management to clarify anew the basic policy to createa company in which employees work with enthusiasm and exercise their abilitieswithout restraint due to gender, nationality, age and/or life stage, we releasedthe basic principles on the practice of work-life balance in March 2007.This principle explicitly laid out Fuji Xerox’s determination to review workprocesses apply work rules based on various work-life balance options, and con-scientiously recruit and deploy workers based on various personnel qualifica-tions. It also clearly stated management’s perspective on the need for reformingthe corporate culture through the increased awareness and action of manage-ment as well as the initiatives of individual employees. In April 2008, weenhanced our childcare support system in line with this perspective. We willactively create a system to drive the review of existing work styles at our worksites and revitalize young and mid-level employees through a personnel rotationsystem as well as upgrading working rules to provide flexibility in working hoursand locations.Taking on new initiatives
The origins of Fuji Xerox’s approach to work-life balance date back to its NWW(New Work Way) campaign launched in 1988. NWW was a corporate innovationfor establishing a new vision of the company and employee work styles for the21st century. This formed the basis for Fuji Xerox’s current efforts related todiversity and work-life balance.Given this background, the goal of Fuji Xerox is to create a system that affordspractical advantages. For example, the company’s childcare system is nowwidely used to enable employees to continue working after the birth of a child asa result of ongoing improvements in its operation. The company was publiclyrecognized for its efforts by receiving the Family Friendly Corporation Award in2002 and the acquisition of the “Kurumin,” Next-generation Accreditation markbased on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the NextGeneration.Fuji Xerox initiativesPromotion of work-life balance
Fuji Xerox has been relentlessly striving to enhance its childcare support system under the
Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. The companyacquired the “Kurumin,” Next-generation Accreditation mark in April 2007 as a companythat supports employees while they are raising children.
TOPIC
Presenting Flexible Working Styles—
The Introduction of Flextime and Time Credit Systems
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NV and FUJIFILM Europe NV in
Belgium have introduced flextime and time credit systems to offergreater flexibility for individual work styles.
This system provides staff a relative level of autonomy in selecting the start
and finish times for their work day with the consent of their colleagues; alonger lunch break can also be chosen. Flextime has a short-term impactand was introduced in collaboration with the unions.Under this system, I have the opportunity to take mykids to school in the morning and can also go to ahospital without taking the day off. It is also useful foravoiding traffic congestion, since I have flexibility indeciding my working hours and the time I go to theoffice. I really hope this valuable system will continue.
I take Wednesdays off and work four days a week. I
now have time for house work and for myself as wellas more time to spend with my family. I have beenworking at the company for 36 years and I am 50years old. So reducing working hours helps me a lotin terms of my physical health, and my job does notfeel as great a burden as before. I think this is a reallyexcellent system.Flextime working hours● Comment from flextime user
● Comment from time credit user
This system was established by law and is intended to more effectively con-
trol the mid- to long-term work-life balance. People are allowed within cer-tain limitations (for example, specific criteria may not be exceeded, such asage, years of service, maximum number of participants within a depart-ment) to work less (varying from 80% to 50%) or to completely suspendtheir employment to give higher priority to family life over career develop-ment. We are flexibly applying this option, which is popularly referred to asa time credit system.Time creditFujifilm Group believes the health and safety of labor is a funda-
mental precondition for production activities. We, therefore,place strong emphasis on safety and strive to secure workplacesafety in full compliance with laws and regulations governingsafety and hygiene. We implement measures based on thesafety policy designated for each operation site, including safetypatrols by labor and management; workplace inspections andimprovement through invited external experts; safety screeningof equipment for design, installation, and operation; and disasterprevention. We also offer related employee training programs asneeded. As a result of these efforts, we have maintained thenumber of labor accidents below the industry average.
Sharing information through Safety Meetings On October 23, 2007 we held a Safety Meeting in the FujifilmKanagawa Factory with the participation of approximately 600persons, including the employees of the factory as well as ofour affiliates and onsite subcontractors. The meeting wasmainly organized by the Safety Meeting Special Committee setup in fiscal 2007. Representative efforts at each workplace anddisaster case studies were shared at the meeting along with alecture on improving mental health by Dr. Yumiko Maki of theKanto Central Hospital. Mr. Hideaki Horie, General Manager ofthe factory also spoke, “I hope all participants will furtherenhance their awareness of safety and take concrete actions.” 
Complete training for new recruits and transferredemployees, and explosion prevention training
Human resources are increasingly fluid and employment pat-terns are diversifying in line with our structural reforms cen-tered on the photosensitized material business. Under thesecircumstances, a common training manual for film material divi-sions was created at the Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory to keepeveryone current on workplace safety and health. Since April2007, we have conducted a four-phased training program fornew recruits and transferred employees during the first threemonths of their deployment.  In 2007, the company invested US$35,882 (approximately¥26.8 million) in automating an operation that was previouslydone manually. Through this effort, the company improved theworksite operations, in this case by reducing such risks as backpain, and thereby boosting employee morale.
Workplace checkups and training as a united effort of
labor and management FUJIFILM Canada Inc. (three facilities, 310 employees), ourlocal sales company, set up a Joint Health and SafetyCommittees (JHSC), represented by both management andnon-management employees, to comply with provincial lawsand to secure employees’ safety.In addition to monthly worksitecheckups, the committee con-ducts educational activities onissues such as emergencyresponse. In addition, third-partyaudits of employee health andsafety compliance are conductedfor all worksites every two years.
Initiatives to prevent chemical substance-related 
accidents and mishaps The Fuji Xerox Takematsu site, which undertakes R&D and themanufacture of toners and drums for photocopy machines,handles a large volume of chemical substances including pow-der dusts and organic solvents. We implement a variety ofmeasures to prevent accidents or disasters associated withthese chemicals, such asacquiring OHSAS 18001 certi-fication, which is a laborhealth and safety manage-ment system, in factories;assessing risk for all divisions;screening for environmentalsafety risk and explosion pre-vention when installing new equipment; and providing healthand safety training to engineering workers who work at the fac-tory sites. Regarding health and safety management for powderdusts, large volumes of which are used for manufacturing ton-ers, stringent control is exercised through our own, stricter con-centration standards along with meticulous monitoring ofworker exposure. By these actions, the company is maintaininga more comfortable working environment.
Response to lifestyle-related diseases
In response to the introduction of diagnostic criteria for meta-bolic syndrome in Japan in 2005, Fujifilm added the measure-ment of abdominal circumference to regular medicalexaminations. Based on the results, doctors, health workersand nurses provide guidance on lifestyles, centered on nutri-tion, with the goals of reducing calories, fats and salt andestablishing a more balanced menu. In addition, each of ourworkplaces exercises initiative in promoting the prevention oflifestyle-related diseases byaggressively pursuing activi-ties such as sponsoring lec-tures to raise awareness andproviding low-calorie menusat canteens.
Shortened working hours and offering opportunities 
for exercise 
At FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Singapore Pte. Ltd., each Fridayhas been designated as “ACTIVE Day.” The workday is reducedby one hour and specially qualified instructors are invited toencourage employees to exer-cise through activities like kickboxing and aerobics. TheACTIVE Day program wasstarted in September 2003,and about half of all employ-ees currently participate.
Support for mental healthIn 2002, Fujifilm set up the Companywide Physical and MentalHealth Promotion Committee involving industrial physicians andcounselors to improve employees’ mental health. The commit-tee specifically provides a health survey in accordance withemployee working hours and interviews with industrial physi-cians. An e-mental health examination system is being devel-oped so that employees can review their mental health statuson their own. We also conduct mental health managementseminars for all managers and provide in-house counselingservices by expert doctors and counselors.The consumption of organic solvents is rising due to the launchof color filter manufacturing, requiring comprehensive action toprevent explosions. In October 2007, the Special Committeeon Preventing Explosions was established. A facility for explo-sion prevention training was subsequently set up and the pro-gram was launched. Starting in January 2008, semi-annualtraining on the three factors affecting explosions (inflammablegas/vapor, ignition source, and oxygen) is provided to employ-ees who deal with organic solvents.
Onsite inspection and explosion prevention training by
outside experts In the Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory, we have continued toraise awareness of explosion prevention through the trainingprogram for new recruits and lectures by experts. In fiscal2007, a site inspection by external experts was implemented asa new endeavor to reinforce measures to prevent explosions atworksites where hazardous materials including organic solventsare used.Two outside experts, including Mr. Shonosuke Kamachi of theTechnology Institution of Industrial Safety, inspected a site, inwhich hazardous materials are used, to check for the risk ofelectrostatic discharge, offering advice to the operator andadministrator onsite. We reviewed results following the inspec-tion and shared issues that required action.
Improvement of workplace morale by reducing risks 
At FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Singapore Pte. Ltd., which mainlymanufactures chemicals for processing photos, we participatein an occupational health and safety campaign promoted by theSingapore Ministry of Labor and internally audit risk identifica-tion and provide risk education.CSR Activities Report
51 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 50 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008
Creating a Safe, Healthy Workplace for 
All Employees
Workplace safety is our highest priority; we strive to create settings in which every employee can 
maintain sound physical and mental health, with due consideration to specific operations at each workplace.
Safety Meeting in the Fujifilm Kanagawa Factory
Explosion prevention training at the Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami FactoryExplosion prevention training at the Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory
Before improvement After improvement
Before improvement After improvement
Health and safety training for engineering
workers at the Fuji Xerox Takematsu site
Example of factory mechanization (Top: production line; Bottom: material warehouse). In
both cases, plastic tanks and bags containing raw material weighing more than 20 kgwere previously carried by hand. The introduction of equipment such as hand liftsreduced the burden on employees.
Certificate on workplace health andsafety compliance issued by third-party auditor
ACTIVE DayPromotion of occupational health and safety
Related pages
Page 81: Personnel and Labor (Fujifilm)
Page 82: Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)
CSR Activities Report
53 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 52 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Toward Enhancing Customer Satisfaction
We value communication with customers and reflect their voices in the development and 
improvement of our products and services.
(CS index)Quickness of response
Clarity of response
Readability
Intent to use service 
in the future2007, Jan.—Mar.
The first half of fiscal 2007
The second half of fiscal 2007Customer satisfaction for our responses by e-mail
02 04 06 08 0 1 0 0
An example of improvement: Kassai inkjet printer papersAn example of improvement: 
Color digital multifunction devicesReflecting customer feedback on our color digital multifunctiondevices, we intend to develop products under the concept ofbeing more friendly to the environment and to people.
Customer comments
● Although displayed as “postcard size,” it cannot be used as a postcard.● Difficult to understand thickness specifications.
Resulting improvements
● Increased size and visibility of notification that product cannot be used as a postcard.● Improved display on paper for determining front and back sides.● Converted thickness specification from μm to standard mm.Customer feedback● The machine is noisy and became a nuisance when it was placed next to my desk.
Please make it quieter.
Resulting improvement● Cutting down motor noise by optimizing the control of cooling fans, we reduced the
noise level to that of black-and-white machines.
FUJIFILM SQUARE
Address: Floors 1 & 2 Tokyo Midtown, 
7-3 Akasaka 9-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo Telephone: 03 (6271)3350Open hours: 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Daily (except New Year’s break)Entrance fee: Free of charge
0 (CS index) 20 40 60 80 100Operator attitudes 
toward inquiries
Requests to return 
defective productsImpressions of postcard 
confirming receipt of goodsNumber of days 
until replies received
Contents of letters
Intent to use service 
in the future2005
2006
2007Customer satisfaction for responses 
by telephone and postTarget groups for customer satisfaction survey
Questionnaire on response by telephone and postCustomers who received their response by post from the CustomersCommunication Center between July 1 and September 30, 2007(Number of letters received: 169⁄ Response rate: 52%)Questionnaire on response by e-mailCustomers who made inquiries by e-mail via the Fujifilm websitebetween January 1, 2007 and March 31, 2008 (Number of e-mailsreceived: 341⁄ Response rate: 6.4%)
Formula for calculating CS index
CS= 100(good: +2) + (rather good: +1) + (rather poor: -1) + (poor: -2) 
(Number of responses)    2
*Voice of Customers (VOC): A system that allows internal entities to share information on customer feedback
entered into a database by sales representatives, service engineers and administrative personnel nationwidein Japan.Simplified manuals (From left: copy machine, fax and scanner)
BeforeAfter (above, enlarged view of the
improved description)
The Fujifilm Group considers customer satisfaction (CS) as the
cornerstone of management and strives to deliver the qualitythat customers expect at any given time by sincerely listening totheir opinions and incorporating their feedback into the develop-ment and improvement of our products and services. Fujifilmand Fuji Xerox, which handle different product lines, respond dif-ferently to customers depending on the specific product area.Our basic stance for responding to customers
As stated in Shared Value, Fuji Xerox and its affiliates haveidentified customer satisfaction as a top priority. Since itsestablishment, Fuji Xerox has been helping to advancecustomer business activities through the products andservices it provides.Based on this philosophy, we developed, from our foundation, aleasing business in which we lend copy machines to customersinstead of selling them, guided by the belief that customersneeded the functionality of the equipment. In this context, theongoing establishment and maintenance of relationshipsthrough effective communication is vital for recognizing whatcustomers really need and for solving their business problems.This is the starting point for our CS activities. To this end, FujiXerox and its affiliates have precisely identified genuine needsof customers, and continuously reflect this information in ourbusiness operations for ongoing improvement.How Fuji Xerox responds to customersFujifilm and its affiliates strive to both expand and ground theirmanagement system for responding to customer complaints incompliance with ISO 10002, thereby further enhancing CS andthe quality of response.
Customer Satisfaction surveys
Fujifilm conducts CS surveys targeting those who have madeinquiries to the Customers Communication Center (CCC). In fis-cal 2007, the CS index increased from the previous survey, par-ticularly in regard to response to e-mails. This appears to reflecta positive assessment of the quick, courteous and accuratereplies resulting from efforts such as the 48-hour rule, whichrequires that staff reply to e-mail messages within 48 hours. Weintend to continue making improvements in response to issuesraised in these surveys.How Fujifilm responds to customers
Effectively utilizing customer feedbackCustomers’ opinions received at the Customers CommunicationCenter are distributed to related divisions and affiliates as feed-back for improving our products and services. For example, theimproved packaging for Kassai inkjet papers in fiscal 2007 wasbased on customer comments.Showroom utilizationFUJIFILM SQUARE, a showroom complex in Tokyo Midtown,welcomes between 1,500 and 2,000 customers every day asthe public face of Fujifilm. It showcases photo-related productsand health-care products and hosts photo exhibits. Seniorconcierges (former Fujifilm employees) provide detailed infor-mation to customers including general advice on taking photo-graphs. In addition, given the large numbers of foreign visitors,several English-speaking employees are on hand to providesight-seeing information for the surrounding area.Representative customer comments include, “Despite theextensive lineup of exhibitions, the service is free, so we canjust casually drop by, which is nice.” We will maintain the user-friendly style of the showroom, and we have entered visitorfeedback onto a database sothis information can bequickly shared with relateddivisions and affiliates toimprove products and serv-ices and to enhance theshowroom as well as staffinteractions with customers.CS surveysThe overall comprehensibility of our instruction manuals hadreceived poor marks in questionnaires on products and servicesand a CS survey conducted by external research agencies.Therefore, Fuji Xerox improved the manuals by adding a simpli-fied version of the instructions, focusing on the most frequentlyused functions and illustrating how to use these functions in aneasy-to-understand manner.
Diverse strategies for improving CS
With our fiscal 2007 goal of delivering CS that is No.1 in theindustry, we concentrated on improving our products and serv-ices based on approximately 600,000 customer commentsreceived through “Voice of Customers (VOC) *.”
Related page
Page 80: System for responding to customers
(Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)
Related page
Page 80: System for responding to customers
(Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates)
FUJIFILM SQUARE
URL http://fujifilmsquare.jp/english/index.html
CS Guidelines of Fuji Xerox
1.Listening to the ‘Customer’s Voice’ is the beginning of our job.
2. Thinking of the ‘Customer’s Viewpoint’ is the basis of our job.
3. Meeting the ‘Customer’s Expectation’ is the responsibility
of our job.
4. Earning the ‘Customer’s Deep Trust’ is the joy of our job.5. Receiving the ‘Customer’s Evaluation’ is the measurement
of our job.CSR Activities Report
55 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 54 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Fujifilm Group Green Policy
The entire Fujifilm Group strives for the highest environmental quality based on 
its Medium-term Environmental Policy, the Fujifilm Group Green Policy.
Fujifilm Group Green Policy
“Sustainable development” is the most important issue for our planet, the human race, and all business entities in the
21st century.The Fujifilm Group companies around the world aim to stay at the forefront of efforts to attain this goal in terms of envi-ronmental, economic, and social aspects. We will strive for customer satisfaction as well as our contribution to “sustain-able development” by achieving high “environmental quality” in products, services, and corporate activities.
1.We will promote environmental burden reduction and product safety assurance with the following three items in mind:
(1) Our efforts are pursued throughout all corporate activities.(2) Our efforts are pursued throughout the entire product life cycle.(3) We give overall consideration to economic and social implications.
2.We will improve our management of chemical substances and the chemical content of products to reduceenvironmental risks.
3.We will comply with legal regulations as well as Fujifilm Group regulations, standards, and requirements that are indi-
vidually agreed on.
4.We will strengthen partnerships with our business partners, collaborate in government and industrial activities, and
actively participate in community activities.
5.We will actively give full disclosure of the information regarding our involvement in and accomplishment of variousenvironmental activities to all associated individuals, including local communities, governments, and Fujifilm Groupcompany employees, to facilitate open communication.
6.We will heighten the environmental awareness of every Fujifilm Group employee through employee education, so thatwe can fortify our infrastructure to face the challenges posed by environmental issues in the future.Action GuidelinesNine Priority Targets (as of March 2008)
1. Improvement in Eco-Efficiency
By the fiscal year 2010, the Fujifilm Group aims to improve its eco-efficiency with regard to six of all the environmental burdens, from A through to F(refer to graphs below), by twice as much as the fiscal year 2000 level.
*1Specified manufacturing facilities: Fujifilm’s Kanagawa Factories (Ashigara and Odawara), Fujinomiya Factory, Yoshida-Minami Fa ctory, FUJIFILM Opto Materials, and FUJIFILM Kyushu
*2Energy intensity: Energy consumption per converted unit of production volume
*3CO2emissions intensity: CO 2emission volume per converted unit of production volume
A. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Consolidated) B. Consumed Natural Resources (Consolidated) C. Atmospheric Emissions of VOCs*5 (Consolidated)
D. Consumed Packing Materials (Non-Consolidated) E. Waste Generation (Consolidated) F. Water Consumption (Consolidated)Eco-Efficiency Eco-Efficiency from Fiscal 2004 to Fiscal 2007 On target (above scheduled target guideline) Additional effort required to meet target (below scheduled target guideline) Target
Eco-efficiencies of Atmospheric Emissions of VOCs (C), Consumed Packing Materials (D), and Water Consumption (F) were significa ntly better than their target lines and have already achieved the goals for the fiscal year 2010. However, 
eco-efficiencies of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (A), Consumed Natural Resources (B) and Waste Generation (E) were below their target lines for the following reasons:
• With regard to Greenhouse Gas Emissions, the operations of new factories and the increased level of emissions from Group companies as a result of acquisitions were the primary driving forces. However, thanks to the reduction at Fujifilm 
domestic factories, the overall level improved over the previous year.
• With regard to Consumed Natural Resources, the value declined due to the increased use of aluminum, the basic material of TAC films for flat panel displays and PS plates for offset printing.• Regarding Waste Generation, the amount generated is increasing in America and China. However, these increased amounts were more than offset by the reduction of waste in Fujifilm domestic factories, and therefore, the overall value 
represents an improvement for the entire Group over the previous year.
*5 VOCs: Volatile Organic Compounds20042005 200620072010 target
Scheduled target guideline
1.41 1.421.451.482.0
1.5
1.02000 2010 (Fiscal year)(Eco-Efficiency)
2000 2010 (Fiscal year)(Eco-Efficiency)1.481.52
1.382010 target
Scheduled target guideline
20042005
20061.31
20072.0
1.5
1.02000 2010 (Fiscal year) 2000 2010 (Fiscal year)
2000 2010 (Fiscal year)(Eco-Efficiency)
2.0
1.5
1.02000 2010 (Fiscal year)(Eco-Efficiency)(Eco-Efficiency)
(Eco-Efficiency)2.04.6
1.5
1.020052006 3.604.19 20074.60
20043.17
2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 target
Scheduled target guideline20062.88
20042.19
200520072.97
2.53
2.03.5
1.5
1.02010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2004200520061.211.261.28
20071.312.2
2.0
1.5
1.0Scheduled target guideline2010 target
200420052006
1.741.782.11
20072.20*4GHS (Globally Harmonized System): Uniform (harmonized) international system for classifying and labeling chemical substancesBasic Policy2. Design for Environment
Fujifilm will design all new and remodeled products according to the “Basic Regulations for Design that Takes the Environment into Consideration.” At the same time, measures will be taken to pro-mote the sharing among all the Fujifilm Group companies of environmental quality data on products and other items created in line with those regulations, including manufacturing equipment and
packaging materials. The scope of this program will progressively be expanded to encompass the entire Fujifilm Group.
3. Reduction of Environmental Burden and Contamination Control
3-1. Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
By the fiscal year 2012, specified manufacturing facilities *
1domestic Fujifilm Group companies with large emission volumes will reduce their energy intensity *2by 30% from those of the fiscal
year 1990 and will reduce CO 2emissions intensity*3by 40% from those of the fiscal year 1990. Fujifilm Group companies, other than the companies above, set separate goals individually.
3-2. Conducting Environmental Monitoring
Domestic Fujifilm Group companies’ manufacturing facilities that use regulated chemicals will periodically monitor soil, underground water, and wastewater conditions as well as VOC emission volume.
3-3. Leakage Measures for Pipes, Pits, and Tanks
Domestic Fujifilm Group manufacturing companies will continue implementing and augmenting their chemical leakage countermeasures. These include measures such as those to move pipes andother underground items above the ground and equip items with double walls, as well as measures to enable quick leakage detection of underground items.
4. Upgrading Waste Management4-1. Continuation and Improvement of Zero Emission Activities
Each domestic Fujifilm Group company will maintain the current zero emission standard. They will, furthermore, pursue qualitative improvement with regard to resource recycling. Each overseasGroup company will establish separate targets in line with the situation in its respective country.
4-2. Strengthening Waste Governance 
Each domestic Fujifilm Group company will work to augment waste-related education programs and take thorough measures to achieve appropriate waste management.
5. Strengthening Chemical Substance ManagementTo comply with chemical substance regulations around the world, Fujifilm will maintain and strengthen its systems for reliably collecting relevant compliance information and for ensuring the legalcompliance of product development and marketing operations. At the same time, we will strengthen our systems for responding to movements to increase the strictness of chemical managementstandards, including the new REACH chemical management regulations in force in Europe. Fujifilm will maintain dependable management operations based on the Fujifilm Chemical SubstanceManagement System and will also work to upgrade these operations by introducing new safety testing and compliance testing technologies.
6. Management of Chemical Content in Products (Raw Materials, Parts, Packing Materials, and Services)
To manufacture environmentally-friendly products, Fujifilm will continue to strengthen its supply chain management systems and survey its suppliers and procured supplies and services. Regardingsuppliers, we will survey our management system for chemicals contained in products and work to upgrade that system. In addition, Fujifilm will start the surveys of suppliers’ CSR management.Regarding procured supplies, Fujifilm will undertake surveys and, at the same time, work to arrange contracts stipulating the absence of prohibited substances, clarify product specifications, and forti-fy inspection systems.
7. Construction and Improvement of Management Systems
Each Fujifilm Group company will work to create environmental and quality management systems and to continually improve those systems by integrating them into daily operation.
8. Information Disclosure, Information Provision, and Communication
Fujifilm will attempt to improve information disclosure/provision and communication through sustainability reports issued by each Fujifilm Group company. Regarding products, the Group will work to pro-mote the provision of the Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) as well as other safety-level information that responds to the Globally Harmonized Systems*
4(GHSs). The Group will also seek to expand the
scope of its product-related environmental information disclosure. Furthermore, the Fujifilm Group will strive to improve communication with all associated entities inside and outside of the organization.
9. Employee EducationFujifilm will conduct education and training pertaining to the environment and quality for employees at domestic and international Fujifilm Group companies. Fujifilm will also continue to improve vari-
ous aspects of their education and training procedures, including the content of education, appropriate training measures, and textbook updating as needed.Related pages Pages 86-90: Environmental Aspects
Revenues
Value for Environmental BurdenEco-Efficiency = 
The Fujifilm Group Green Policy was issued in April 2002, and it has been applied across the entire Group as the Group’s Medium -term
Environmental Policy in a three-stage structure—Basic Policy, Action Guidelines, and Nine Priority Targets. From fiscal 2008 onward, we
will continue to pursue even higher environmental quality based on the Fujifilm Group Green Policy as a united effort.Aiming for high environmental quality as a GroupCSR Activities Report
57 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 56 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Environmental Burdens of 
the Fujifilm Group
This material flow system summarizes resource inputs and emissions associated with R&D, development, 
and product distribution across the entire Fujifilm Group.
Environmental burdens of the Fujifilm Group (Fiscal 2007)
•Resource mining/logistics
•Purification and Refinement/ 
Synthesis and Processing
•Material transportation•Electricity used•Combustion of oil and gases•Use of water > discharge
•Waste•Combustion of heavy 
oil and gasoline
•Use of electricity•Use of electricity
•Use of water•Waste combustion•Recycling energyEnvironmental burden of 
resource procurement
Discharged
waterEnvironmental burden of 
product manufacturingEnvironmental burden of 
product transportationEnvironmental burden of 
product usage by customersEnvironmental burden of 
waste and recycling
Material
recyclingWaste materialElectricity Electricity
*2Atmospheric
emissions
CO2: 1,513,000 tons
VDC: 1,500 tons
SOx: 90 tons
NOx: 900 tons
Soot: 9.0 tonsCO2 equivalent
2,612,000 tons*1
Material
recycling
Aluminum/PET/TACAtmospheric
emissions
CO2: 50,800 tonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2: 500,000 tons*3Atmospheric
emissions
CO2: 400,000 tons*4
1,420 million kWh
158,000 kL145 million m
3
27 million m3
56 million tonsElectricity:
Oil:
Town gas:
Natural gas:
Water:Aluminum:
Silver:
PET:
TAC:129,900 tons1,000 tons40,600 tons
50,400 tons1,660 kL
17,080 kLGasoline:
Diesel oil:
Waste
material
76,500 tonsWaste
materialAmount of 
cyclic 
water used
91.7 million tonsDischarged water
Direct control over environmental burden by Fujifilm Group*1 Environmental burden of material procurement associated with Fuji Xerox (copy 
machines and printers) is based on fiscal 2006 data.
*2 Includes photovoltaic generation 178,000 kWh, wind power generation 1,342,000 kWh.
*3 Environmental burden of product usage by customers was estimated by multiplying the 
estimated number of products in operation by the estimated amount of energy used.
*4 Environmental burden of disposal and recycling was calculated with estimated amount 
expected from the disposal of products/recycling of materials.Water Water
Water:
COD:
BOD:
Total azode:
Total phosphorus:52.0 million tons
96.8 tons
44.8 tons258.8 tons
4.3 tons
CO2 emissions for the Fujifilm Group * (Fiscal 2007)
0500
Disposal and
recyclingUsage Product
transportationEmissions from 
business officesResource
procurement1,0001,5002,0002,5003,0002,612(CO 2 1,000 tons)
1,513
508 500400
*To calculate the equivalent amount of CO 2 emissions, the basic unit of CO 2 emissions was based on an 
inter-industry relations table, which is a statistical matrix of inter-industry transactions of goods and 
services conducted over a given period (typically one year) in the domestic economy of Japan, as compiled by Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications.Materials for 
Copy machines, 
printers (Fuji Xerox) 
(Fiscal 2006 data)TACPE
Gases
(combustion)Copy machines
and printersDigital cameraGraphic equipmentMinilabMedical equipment
Oil
(combustion)Electricity
PETAluminumSteelSilverOilGasesDialogue with Experts, What We Have Done So Far to Reduce Environmental Burdens
The Fujifilm Group has conducted dialogues focused on reducing the
environmental burden of products since 2005. For the dialogue in2008 (held May 15, 2008), we discussed what the Fujifilm Grouphas done and should do to reduce environmental burdens.
Participants included three external experts, including Mr. NorihiroItsubo, Associate Professor, Faculty of Environmental andInformation Studies, Musashi Institute of Technology; Ms. MarikoKawaguchi, Senior Analyst, Management Strategy ResearchDepartment, Daiwa Institute of Research, Ltd; Mr. Toshihiko Fujii,Consulting Fellow, Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry(RIETI), and seven employees from FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm, andFuji Xerox. Mr. Hideto Kawakita, CEO of IIHOE (International Institutefor Human, Organization, and the Earth), served as the facilitator.
●Established technology for the closed-loop recycling of waste aluminum
in the PS and CTP plates production process at Fujifilm (page 14)
●Implemented Integrated Recycling System at Fuji Xerox (page 25)
●Fujifilm’s efforts for eco-printing (page 13)
●Fuji Xerox’s efforts to reduce power consumption of products during use
(page 19)What we have done●Environmental efforts for BtoB (Business to Business) products should
be communicated to end-users as well.
●Results of environmental efforts for input resources should be presented
in a clear and concrete manner.
●Actual CO 2reductions should be indicated by product, not as one
total amount.
●Actively introduce energy saving mode in accordance with individual
usage and mechanisms to reduce misprinting. Also further improve “soft”
aspects such as recommending specific ways in which users couldreduce environmental burdens and how much the reduction would be.
●Disseminating environmentally friendly products requires the concept of
“investment” in addition to “cost.”
●Companies need to be more actively involved in creating a system for
securing advantages for pioneers to contribute to eco-friendliness. 
●Cultivate human resources to undertake the required negotiations and
coordinate strategies.What we should do●Since refining aluminum as the raw material for PS plates requires significant
energy, Fujifilm’s technology for the closed-loop recycling of waste aluminumis worthy of praise. This will also boost the company’s competitiveness.
●The progress in reducing environmental burden associated with hard-
ware, including copy machines, is wonderful.Participant comments
We have reaffirmed the significance of more actively communicating
to society about activities that the Fujifilm Group has been imple-menting to reduce the environmental burden of its products. Wehave strengthened cooperation between individual divisions and theCSR division to promote environmentally friendly products from theperspective of management and presented the results to the generalpublic as well as customers.Conclusion
Analyzing environmental burden for the entire 
Fujifilm Group by LCA (Life Cycle Assessment)COMMENTS
We calculated overall environmental burdens, from resource pro-
curement to production, usage in the market and disposal, of allproducts offered by the Fujifilm Group to identify the equivalentamount of CO
2(chart on the left). This indicates the largest environ-
mental burden is from material procurement. In addition to our pre-vious efforts to pursue resource saving, energy conservation andrecycling of our products, we reconfirmed the importance of furtherlimiting consumed resources and reutilizing resources through recy-cling and reuse.After the stakeholder dialogueCOMMENTS
As efforts to reduce the environmental burden of products movetoward full implementation, it is often the case that the problem can-not be solved by just one company. The recycling of aluminum atFujifilm seems to be one such example. The objective has beenachieved in cooperation with alloy manufacturers. The significantefforts in which personnel literally went around everywhere were thekey to success. This is always true. However, more efficient progresswould be possible with the support of an institutional framework orpolicy for promoting environmental cooperation beyond the bound-aries of companies. Achieving a society with a small environmentalburden will signify changing the rules of the game.
What advances efforts to the reduce 
environmental burden of products
Mr. Toshihiko Fujii
Consulting Fellow, Research Institute of Economy,
Trade and Industry
What sets Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox apart is not just the progressive
content of their efforts but also their approach to product develop-ment and improvement in environmental burden based on productlife cycles. I think this is related to basic CSR philosophy. To reduceenvironmental burden, it is vital to establish consensus with allrelated parties along with technical improvements. To promote therecycling of aluminum, Fujifilm took the first step to reprocess alu-minum on its own and by assuring quality, the company was able tosystemize recycling procedures. This is noteworthy.
After attending the dialogue
Mr. Norihiro Itsubo
Associate Professor, Faculty of Environmental
and Information Studies,Musashi Institute of Technology
Ken Kawada (left)
Senior staff
Takahito Miyoshi (right)
Technical Manager
Ecology & Quality Management DivisionFUJIFILM CorporationFOCUS : Stakeholder Dialogue
Related pages
Pages 8-11: Initiatives in the Medical Field
Pages 12-15: Initiatives in the Printing FieldPages 16-19: Response to Climate ChangeCSR Activities Report
59 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 58 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008cycle assessment), power conservation and safety. Product designs
that have not undergone the specified examination and approvalprocess for environmental quality cannot be manufactured andsold. Design for environment is based on the LCA implementationrules, which were established in 2002. We apply LCA to quantita-tively and objectively analyze and evaluate environmental burdensacross the complete product life cycle, from planning and R&D, tomaterial procurement, production and processing, sales, distribu-tion, usage, and final disposal or recycling. Compliance with RoHS,REACH and other international environmental regulations are alsoincorporated into our framework of design for environment.Design for Environment 
Fujifilm Group not only complies with international environmental regulations but also provides customers with 
products that reflect genuine concern for the environment during every stage of their life cycles.
The Basic Regulations for Design that Takes the Environment into 
Consideration were prepared taking into account these factors. Safety
Management of chemical content
(Green Procurement)
3Rs
Disclosure of environmental 
information to customers
Distribution/Packing
Compliance
Elements of design for environmentLCA implementation rules
Product development and 
information disclosure flowchartDesign for environment framework
● Reduced consumption of chemical substances that adversely impact the environment
● Management in compliance with basic regulations for chemical contents ● Conforming to the green procurement standard (guarantee of environmental quality in raw materials/parts)
● Reduction of packing materials; Preventing the use of hazardous materials ● Ease of collection/transportation/retrieval, efficiency of distribution, repeated use of package wrapping, bales and cargo pack s
● Compliance with domestic environment-related laws (Chemical Substances Control Law, Industrial Safety and Health Law) ● Compliance with international environment-related laws (EuP *1, RoHS, REACH) and industry agreement (ECD *2)
● Assessment of the amount of CO 2, chemical substances that adversely impact the environment, and waste                       materials across the complete life  cycle of a product● Long-term use, repair and replacement of parts ● Utilizing recycled resources ● Reduced consumption of natural resources and energy in producing and using our products
● Environmental labeling, indications, and nomenclature of raw materials ● Information on recycling and disposal of raw materials● Safe disposal of used product ● Safe disposal of waste
Product design stage R&D stage
Marketing and 
product planning divisionsR&D divisions
Preparation Preparation Registration
Registration
RegistrationMaintenance and supervisionUse Raw materials Production Distribution Disposal
Setting goals for environmental qualityDevelopment of products 
in accord with objectives, evaluation of 
environmental quality and LCA evaluationManufacturing-type 
consideration stage
Decision maker for
manuf
acturing type
Deliberation, discussionStage for changing manufacturing
and manufacturing conditions
Manufacturing divisions
ManufacturingInformation disclosure
Domestic and overseas
mark
eting divisions
Information provisionUse by consumers and eventual disposal
Chemical substance, preparations, photosensitized materials, articles, equipment
Information provision (MSDS, JAMP, MSDSplus, AIS)
Plans
Environmental quality targeting sheetEnvironmental quality 
information sheet*3 Environmental quality information sheet Environmental quality information
LCA evaluation sheet
Environmental quality
assessment sheetMaster database for 
product environmental 
information*1 EuP: Directive on Eco-Design of Energy-using Products. EU Directive (European Union) related to design for environment, 
which was enforced in August 2005.
*2 ECD: Environmentally Conscious Design. Regulation to design products with minimum environmental burden not only in 
product body itself but also throughout its life cycle.
*3 Environmental quality information sheet: Contains environmental information on the product, including chemical substance 
content and recycling directions.Synergy between Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox
Developing biomass plastic with 
more than 30% plant-derived constituentTOPIC
In recent years, the utilization of biomass (recyclable organic
resources derived from animal and plant materials other thanfossil resources) is drawing major attention as an environmen-tally friendly alternative. The Fujifilm Group has also recognizedbiomass material as a key technology for the future and hasbeen engaged in its development from an early stage. In July2007, Fuji Xerox and Fujifilm jointly developed a biomass plasticwith more than 30% plant-derived constituent (corn) by weight.
This biomass plastic, which can be used for mechanical parts thatrequire improved flame-resistance and impact resilience as wellas high endurance, is a first in the industry. Substituting this newbiomass plastic for conventional plastics that are primarily madefrom ABS resin can reduce CO
2emissions by approximately 16%.
We intend to develop even higher quality biomass plastics.Biomass Plastics Mark
The Biomass Plastics Mark certifies that aproduct contains more than 25% plant-derived constituent by weight. ApeosPort-
I I I
C3300 is the first product in the industry togain this mark.ApeosPort-
I I IC3300, a full color digital mul-
tifunction device that uses biomass plasticparts for mechanical components (leverinside the cover).
Since April 2003, Fujifilm and its affiliates have designed all
new products and improved existing products based on its“Basic Regulations for Design that Takes the Environment intoConsideration” and have undertaken initiatives for reducingenvironmental burdens. In fiscal 2007, the Group focused oncompliance with REACH, which went into force in June 2007,as a top priority for adopting environmentally friendly design.
Fujifilm and its affiliates approach design for environment from thestandpoint of fully incorporating such factors as the 3Rs (Reduce,Reuse and Recycle), chemical content, resource use, LCA (lifeFujifilm’s approach to design for the environment
Related page Page 19: Activities related to our productsCSR Activities Report
61 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 60 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Expanded functions of 
the Fujifilm Safety Evaluation CenterThe functions of the Safety Evaluation Center are beingexpanded to address Fujifilm’s broadening scope of businessinto the fields of functional materials and life sciences.Concretely, we strengthened technologies such as those forevaluating cell toxicity and gene expression, analyzing toxicmechanism based on the evaluation of chemical disposition,and forecasting based on quantitative structure-activity rela-tionship. We also enhanced our safety database to make it eas-ier for material developers to use. Based on these steps, we areable to develop safe, high-performance materials and productsby evaluating and analyzing safety-related factors from the ear-liest stages of development.
Control of animal testing at Fujifilm and its affiliates 
Under the Regulations for Ethical Animal Testing, which applyto Fujifilm and its affiliates, rules for animal testing have beenformulated at each animal testing facility to comply with theLaw for the Humane Treatment and Management of Animals. Inaddition, an animal test committee was established to overseeappropriate animal testing. We also actively promote the 3Rprinciples (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement) for animaltesting. The Center is participating in an initiative of theJapanese Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments (co-organizer JaCVAM*
3) to consider alternative testing methods
for existing skin irritation and skin sensitization tests.
Chemical substance management at production 
facilities of Fuji Xerox and its affiliatesFuji Xerox and its affiliates formulated Chemical ManagementRegulations and have classified and clarified the chemical sub-stances used at their production facilities according to a safetyclassification table for chemical substances.For new chemical substances that come into use in productionprocesses, an application form for registering a new chemicalsubstance is screened based on information from legalresearch and MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheets) to determinesafety classifications. Furthermore, reviews on environmentaland safety risks are carried out whenever production processesinvolving the use of new chemical substances are introduced orchanged, to secure the safety and health of workers as well asto reduce the risk of environmental pollution. In addition, auditsof chemical substances are periodically conducted to confirmusage according to the Chemical Management Regulationsand, if not, any necessary corrective steps are taken. Throughthese efforts, Fuji Xerox continuously strives to reduce the risksrelated to the use of chemicals.Chemical Substance Management 
for Safety and the Environment
To control the variety of risks associated with its specific businesses, the Fujifilm Group ensures appropriate 
chemical substance management at each stage of planning, development, commercialization, manufacturing, and sales.
Major items evaluated 
at the Fujifilm Safety Evaluation Center 
Toxicity screening (cell toxicity test and gene expression analysis); 
Quantitative structure-activity relationship; toxic mechanism analysis based on the evaluation of chemical disposition(absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion)
Ames test; chromosome aberration test; 
acute oral and percutaneous toxicity study; skin irritation test; skin sensitization test; explosibility test
Acute oral toxicity test; skin irritation test; eye irritation test; 
skin sensitization test
Degradation test; enrichment test; partition coefficient test; 
Ames test; chromosome aberration test; repeated dose toxicity study; ecotoxicity test (algal growth inhibition test, daphnia acute immobilization test, and fish acute toxicity test)Development of 
safe chemical substances
Management of industrial safety and health
Safety management 
for products
Tests required to 
comply with legal mandates (GLP)Purpose ItemComprehensive chemical substance management system (Fujifilm)
Regulations on PL ManagementFujifilm standards and regulations
Standards for Chemical Substance Management (Basic Regulations for Management of Chemical Substance Environmental Safety Management; Basic Regulations on Chemical Content)
Management Standards for Worksite Environment, Safety Management, and Site Operation 
(Guideline for Chemical Substance Risk Assessment and Chemical Substance Management; Environmental Controlled Substance Testing Standard; and Chemical Content Management)
Product Management Standard (Basic Regulations on Design for Environment)Planning
•Target
plan•Gathering information •Safety testing implementation 
•Testing for new materials  
•Evaluation of legal compliance 
for materials•Safety testing 
implementation
•Product safety 
and testing
•Evaluation of 
legal compliance for products•Risk assessment 
implementation
•Classification 
and control of 
chemical substances•Preparation of 
raw material information
•Preparation of 
product information•Information 
entered into 
a database•Thorough maintenance 
by production divisionDevelopmentCommer-
cializationProduction Sales
Raw materials Chemical products Packaging material Article Production equipmentSetting targets for environmental qualityAcquisition and 
management of MSDS 
and JAMP MSDSplus
Acquisition and
management of 
AIS, JAMP AIS, 
and as needed, 
MSDS, JAMP MSDSplus 
Acquisition and 
management of 
JAMP AIS and/or 
part informationTesting and evaluation 
at the Safety 
Evaluation CenterFinal validation of safety
 Interim review of progress toward environmental quality target Product test at the 
Safety Evaluation Center
Validation of 
legal compliance of 
article product and 
implementation of 
required proceduresPreparation of 
MSDS, JAMP MSDSplus 
and packaging labelPreparation of MSDS and
packaging label
Preparation of 
AIS, JAMP AIS 
and packaging label
Risk assessment and control of material handled and products
 (determine and control risks as well as any breach of regulation, agreement or ethical standard, etc.)Review of product environmental information; review of whether planned environmental quality target has been metRegistration of product environmental information in master database
•Safety management 
at workplace
•Risk management 
•Raw material 
transportation 
management
•Legal compliance of 
products
•Preparation of 
pamphlets 
•Response to disposal 
and recycling 
•Revision of product 
environmental information as necessary, etc. Provision of 
MSDS and JAMP MSDSplus 
to customers and 
disclosure to the public
Provision of 
AIS and JAMP AIS, etc. 
to customers and 
disclosure to the public
The International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) has
been pursuing a Long-range Research Initiative (LRI) on theimpact of chemical substances on the environment and humanhealth. Fujifilm supports this initiative through investments in theLRI and by participating as a committee member.Contribution to LRI
Related page
Page 86: The scope of applicable chemical substances (Fujifilm);
Classification of chemical substances and standards for
classification (Fujifilm)
*1Chemical Substances Control Law (Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.) and Japan’s Industrial Safety and Health Law.
*2The standard that states the requirements for testing facilities, including organizational structure, facilities, and manuals for ensuring the reliability of safety tests results. The Safety Evaluation Center is certified by the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and Ministry of the Environment.
*3JaCVAM: Japanese Center for the Validation of Alternative Methods.Related page
Page 86: Safety classification of chemical substances (Fuji Xerox)The Fujifilm Group strictly manages chemical substances, with
full consideration for safety and the environment. We proac-tively respond to laws and regulations related to chemical sub-stances and utilize our extensive expertise as a chemicalmanufacturer to actively support and demonstrate leadershipfor external projects, organizations and the industry as a whole.Since the businesses of Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox differ in nature,the risks and precautions they face related to chemical sub-stances are also unique. Each operating company has estab-lished its own system for managing chemicals according totheir respective businesses and risks.
Safety evaluation at Fujifilm and its affiliates
The Fujifilm Safety Evaluation Center (formerly, Fujifilm Material
Safety Test Center) is responsible for comprehensively assess-ing the safety of chemical substances and materials developedor used at Fujifilm. The Center conducts extensive, high-levelsafety evaluations related to health and environment in eachstage, from initial product development to commercialization.Regarding legally mandated testing *
1, the Center conducts
highly reliable tests that conform with international standards asa facility that complies with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP)*
2.Chemical substance management 
at the Fujifilm GroupCSR Activities Report
63 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 62 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Chemical Content Management 
The Fujifilm Group stays one step ahead of public expectations by strictly controlling the chemical content of
its products globally and by sharing that information with partners and customers.
Fujifilm is involved throughout the entire supply chain
Information flow for chemical content throughout the supply chain
Manufacturers of parts and components
MidstreamAssembly companies
DownstreamCompanies related to chemical substance 
and preparation
Upstream
Information on chemical content Information on chemical content
MSDSɾMSDSplus AISFlow of 
information and documentsEurope China, Asia and Oceania The Americas
FUJIFILM Europe GmbH
FUJIFILM Europe NVFUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V.FUJIFILM Recording Media GmbHFUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) NV
FUJIFILM Sericol UK Limited
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Limited
FUJINON (EUROPE) GmbHFUJIFILM UK LIMITED
FUJIFILM Medical Systems Benelux NV
FUJIFILM CZ s.r.o.
FUJIFILM Medical Systems Italia S.p.A.
FUJIFILM Graphic Systems France SAS
FUJIFILM España, S.A.
FUJIFILM France SAS
FUJIFILM Medical Systems France SASFUJIFILM Ireland Ltd.
FUJIFILM Danmark A/S
FUJIFILM Italia S.r.l.
FUJIFILM Slovakia s.r.o.
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NVOthersFUJIFILM Canada Inc.FUJIFILM Holdings America CorporationFUJIFILM Dimatix, Inc.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Graphic Systems U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM Sericol U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.
FUJINON INC.
FUJIFILM Hawaii, Inc.
FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda.
OthersFUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM STARLIGHT CO., LTD.FUJIFILM STARLIGHT GRAPHIC SYSTEMS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Medical Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Finechemicals Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationFUJIFILM Corporation
FUJINON Corporation
FUJIFILM Hong Kong Limited
FUJIFILM (Thailand) Ltd.
FUJIFILM Regional Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Singapore Pte. Ltd.
FUJIFILM (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
FUJIFILM NZ LimitedOthersGlobal chemical content management (Fujifilm and its affiliates)
(As of March 2008)
*1RoHS Directive (Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment): Restrictions governing the use of certain harmful substances in electrical and electronic devices in Europe, and restrict-
ing the usage of cadmium, mercury, lead, hexavalent chrome, and bromine fire retardants (PBB, PBDE) in electronics as of July 1, 2006.
*2REACH Regulation (The Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals): More stringent restrictions for managing chemical substances that address traditionally used chemicals and chemicals contained inside
certain articles. The REACH Regulation aims to establish a management system for registering, evaluating, approving and restricting chemical substances.
*3JAMP (Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium): Cross industry organization established in September 2006 with the object ives to promote the activities such as creation and dissemination of mechanisms for proper manage-
ment of information on the chemical content of products as well as appropriate and smooth communication of information throughout the supply chain.
*4JAMP MSDSplus: Information sheet for chemicals and chemical products proposed by JAMP in response to RoHS Directive and REACH Regulations.
*5JAMP AIS: Information sheet for chemical content of articles proposed by JAMP in response to RoHS Directive and REACH Regulations.Legal environmental mandates have become increasingly strict
across the world over recent years, and the right to participatein economic markets can depend on compliance with regula-tions on chemical substances. Therefore, companies must takeimmediate action to remain going concerns.The direction of chemical substance management for the 21stcentury was first presented at the Earth Summit held in Rio deJaneiro in 1992, and the concrete goal of minimizing the use ofhazardous chemical substances by 2020 was adopted at theJohannesburg Summit in 2002. In response to this worldwidetrend, the RoHS Directive *
1was announced in Europe in 2003
(enforced, July 2006) followed by the REACH Regulation*2in
2006 (enforced, June 2007). These laws and regulationsdemand stronger control (collection and disclosure of informa-tion) over chemical substances in products (as chemical con-tent) and require companies to take concrete actions.In its commitment to respond proactively to these socialdemands and operate in full compliance with global standards,the Fujifilm Group has been systematically implementing group-wide efforts to exert a high level of control over chemical con-tent, by creating frameworks, developing operationalguidelines, constructing systems and others.A global trend toward control of chemical contentsThe Fujifilm Group, which operates in global markets from loca-tions around the world, has been developing systems to complywith internationally enforced laws and regulations.Following the enforcement of the RoHS Directive in Europe in2006, similar regulations were enforced in Japan, the UnitedStates and China. We maintain close communication with over-seas Group affiliates to exchange information and ensure com-pliance with each nation’s disclosure requirements. For instance, in such areas as Europe and the United States,which share a common regulatory framework, we are bolsteringcompliance capabilities and reducing costs by sharing informa-tion on legal regulations and responses to comply with legalmandates. We are also enhancing the monitoring of regulationsin Japan and abroad in collaboration with overseas subsidiaries.Global implementation of chemical content controls
Fuji Xerox provides products to Xerox Corporation as well as itsmajor markets in Asia and Oceania. As a result, our controlsover the chemical content of products must comply with legalmandates across the world.Regarding REACH Regulation, we have been setting up workinggroups since the latter half of 2006 under three themes: sys-tem formation, response to preparations, and response toparts. Regarding the preparations such as toners, we deter-mined how we would handle pre-registering all business part-ners for materials subject to regulations and have beenimplementing the necessary preparations for registration. Interms of the requirements for parts, we intend to base ourresponse on JAMP.    
Regarding the RoHS Directive, we focused on completely elimi-nating the use of lead. In 2007, we became the first in theindustry to begin using lead-free shafts for photocopy machines.Chemical content management at Fuji Xerox
Addressing the level of chemical content control required byRoHS and REACH as quickly, accurately and efficiently as pos-sible requires sharing information among supply chains andcreating a system to facilitate this information exchange. Since Fujifilm is involved in all segments of the supply chain,from raw materials to articles and finished products, we mustdeal with an extremely wide range of items. Consequently, weare collecting and disclosing the necessary information in col-laboration with business partners throughout the supply chain,from upstream chemical manufacturers to mid-stream articles(parts and constituent components) manufacturers and down-stream assembly companies.Since Fujifilm’s approach to controlling chemical substancesbased on its business domain is similar to JAMP *
3, which also
takes into consideration the entire supply chain, we started dis-closing information by broadly moving into JAMP MSDSplus*
4
and JAMP AIS *5based on JAMP formats from AIS that are in
compliance with photographic industry standards.Management of information 
for the entire supply chain
Related pages
Page 38: Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations 
Page 58: Design for Environment Page 60: Chemical Substance Management for Safety and the EnvironmentPage 83: Material ProcurementActions at Fujifilm
Fujifilm established a company-wide system in fiscal 2004 forsurveying and evaluating the industrial waste treatment subcon-tractors it works with, and has been conducting a rigorous andfair analysis and evaluation with the cooperation of approxi-mately 100 companies. Fujifilm also uses this system to con-duct on-the-spot inspections of industrial waste treatmentcompanies, as mandated by local ordinances, since fiscal2006. This system is reviewed and improved as necessary onan ongoing basis.
In addition, improvements on surveyed items were introduced infiscal 2007 as well as the surveyand evaluation qualification pro-gram to certify the competenceof examiners. Approximately 20employees are currently certifiedto conduct surveys and evalua-tions for Fujifilm.
Actions at Fujifilm affiliates Survey and evaluation for industrial waste treatment subcon-tractors is carried out in all Fujifilm sales and production com-panies. All subcontractor evaluations are compiled in theIndustrial Waste Treatment Subcontractor Survey andEvaluation Database. This waste management information isshared across the entire Group and used to strengthen the gov-ernance of waste management.
▼ Fujifilm sales companies (8 companies)
In fiscal 2007, eight companies adopted and began applying this surveyand evaluation system. Survey and evaluation personnel are trained toensure the uniformity of evaluations in the operation of this system.These companies are carrying out periodic evaluations and listing wastemanagement subcontractors in the database for efficiently sharing infor-mation and supporting efficient operations. Approximately 80 employ-ees are certified to survey and evaluate subcontractors. 
▼ Fujifilm production companies (8 companies)
Eight companies who had separately conducted surveys and evaluationsbegan adopting a common system in fiscal 2008 after 34 employees incharge of surveying and evaluation had participated in seminars and on-the-job training at Fujifilm.Survey and evaluation system 
for industrial waste treatment by subcontractors
An IMS internal auditing deter-
mined that operator capabilitiesneeded to be improved. In fiscal2007, training sessions wereheld for 150 waste operatorsfrom Fujifilm affiliates at sixlocations across the country.Training for operators in charge of industrial waste
Fujifilm received Gold Class certification for the HeadOffice and three main factories in Yoshida-Minami,Fujinomiya, and Kanagawa in fiscal 2007 as part of the reg-istration project for corporate Waste Recycling Governance(WRG)* supported by the Japan Environmental Management
Association for Industry, which is based on guidelines fromthe Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (IndustrialStructure Advisory Council). Takematsu site of Fuji Xeroxalso received Gold Class certification.
Registration for waste and recycling governanceIn 2000, FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NV achieved zeroemissions and has been maintaining this level. The company iscurrently enhancing the quality of recycling and is emphasizinginventory management to avoid generating chemical waste. Thebasic idea is to prevent waste and not generate any expiredchemicals through effective inventory management. Slow mov-ing chemicals are processed under appropriate conditionsbefore expiration.Achieving and sustaining zero emissions (Belgium)FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) N.V. systematicallyimplemented a waste reduction project in fiscal 2007. Thecompany took such actions as increasing the delivery of rawmaterials in returnable wrapping, abolishing excessive wrap-ping, and cutting packing waste through bulk deliveries. Thetotal waste was reduced from 3,465 tons in 2001 to 1,750 tonsin 2006.Waste reduction project (Belgium)
In 2005, FUJIFILM Hong Kong Limited launched a project torecycle scrap photographic and inkjet paper manufactured byFujifilm’s Fujinomiya Factory. Since these papers are coatedwith chemicals, a special recycling process must be applied.The company searched for processing factories and establisheda recycling technology. Photographic and inkjet paper are sepa-rated into raw paper, plastic film, paper pulp, silver, and recy-cled into materials that can be reused. Starting in June 2006,waste paper was sent from Japan to a recycling facility inXiamen, China, and full-scale recycling commenced in 2008.Approximately 300 tons of scrap paper are expected to berecycled annually.Recycling project for photographic paper (China)
Laboratories FUJIFILM SAS handles film development andphoto printing, among other services. In February 2008, allseven laboratories in France obtained ISO 14001 certification,and the company is striving to improve its recycling rate.All laboratories obtain ISO 14001 certification
(France)CSR Activities Report
65 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 64 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Effective Waste Management 
and Recycling 
To fulfill its social responsibilities, Fujifilm continuously improves its management of industrial waste 
by surveying and evaluating the waste treatment of our contractors.
Training for waste operatorsSurvey of industrial waste treatment
subcontractorsRecycling Details
● Shrink foils, paper, cardboard, wood, and metal scraps are recycled. 
● All plastics, 60-liter drums, and IBC containers are sent to a
recycling company and then put on the market for re-use.
● Chemicals (developers and fixers) are used for supplemental
energy in the production of cement or used as raw materials
for producing Renoxal (trade name), a reducing agent for NOxemissions during the incineration process.
● Components, including contaminated used bags for wrapping,
are used to circulate energy as incineration fuel.
Recycling Details
● Chemicals (color paper developer): 65% recycled
● Chemicals (bleach-fix): 86% recycled
● Silver: on average, 85.47% recycled (In 2007, 3,156 kg of sil-
ver were collected and sold. The target for 2008 is a 90%recycling rate.)
● Drums: Disposal volume in 2007 decreased by 22% compared
to 2006.
● QuickSnap: In 2007, 197 tons of QuickSnap were collected
and recycled. 1st year 2nd year 3rd year
1st year 2nd year4th year
1st year5th yearFujifilm 
(9 facilities)
Sales companies
(8 companies)
Production companies
(8 companies)2004
2nd half 1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd halfFiscal year
Classification2005 2006 2007 2008Status of the survey and evaluation system 
for industrial waste treatment subcontractors
Kanagawa Factory
(Ashigara site and Odawara site)FUJINON CORPORATION
Fuji Technics Co., Ltd.Fujinomiya Factory
Yoshida-Minami Factory
Asaka Office
Electronic Imaging Products Div.Fujifilm
(including some affiliates)Sales Companies Production Companies
Sendai Office
Electronic Imaging Products Div.
R&D at Kaisei
Tokyo Head Office
FUJIFILM Opto Materials 
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Graphic Systems 
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM IMAGING Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM BUSINESS SUPPLY 
CO., LTD.FUJIFILM TECHNO PRODUCTS CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Finechemicals Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Business Expert 
Corporation
FUJIFILM LOGISTICS 
CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Computer System 
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Software Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Electronic Materials 
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Techno Service
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM MEDIA CREST CO., LTD.Companies that have adopted the survey 
and evaluation system for industrial waste treatment subcontractors
*The Program to Register and Support Waste Recycling Governance is a pub-
lic works project of the Japan Environmental Management Association forIndustry and includes the development and release of a compatibility checksheet for businesses in accordance with WRG Guidelines set forth by theMinistry of Economy, Trade and Industry. This project also registers self-declarations of companies with verified compatibility and helps other busi-nesses establish WRG.
Waste Paper before Recycling
Semi-dry paper pulpDehydration/
SeparationPE/fiber separationPhotographic paper
separationPrecipitation
Dehydration/Separation into 
chemical substances and silver
Plastic
compressionWashing
Plastic film Silver
Bleached white wood pulp 
that can replace imported wood pulpMeets Kodak’s EK10091135 silver standard
Can be used for recycled plastic
Related page
Page 88: Zero emission; Volume of waste generation (consolidated);
Main recycling method for waste productsCSR Activities Report
67 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 66 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008CSR Activities Report
Sustainable Use of Water 
While maintaining harmony with local communities, the Fujifilm Group is striving to efficiently 
use limited water resources by adopting water-saving facilities and efforts.
The Shimizu River. This source of water for the community runs through the grounds of
the Fujinomiya Factory (left), and Shimizu River cleaning activities. Residents and volun-teers from the factory clean the river every year (right)
5.637 million tons
¥1.1274 billion¥30 millionCapital investment 
(water saving management equipment)
Current annual amount of water saved
Value of water savings (estimate*)
*Calculated based on ¥200 per ton, as used in environmental accountingCapital investment for saving water and results
(Fujinomiya Factory)
TOPIC
Supporting Conservation Activities for the Saluda-Reedy Watershed
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. produces color paper, PS plates, QuickSnaps
and screen materials for large-size displays. The company has donated $500,000(approximately ¥50 million) to the Saluda-Reedy Watershed Consortium (SRWC)over five years, from 2003 to 2008. The main sponsors of the SRWC are FUJIFILMManufacturing U.S.A., Inc. and the V. Kann Rasmussen Foundation. SRWC man-ages water quality and volume as well as conservation activities for the Saluda-Reedy Watershed and other rivers and lakes, including Lake Greenwood. Inaddition, SRWC engages in outreach programs to educate local residents of theimportance of protecting the watershed. For details of SRWC activities, pleasevisit the following website.
Fujifilm Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. with Lake Greenwood in the backgroundA questionnaire on biodiversity conservation was conducted to grasp
recognition, involvement, influence, and cooperation with society. Thequestionnaire was sent to 25 business entities, including business unitsand affiliates of Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, with 22 responding. Based onthe responses, we found approximately half of these entities recognizethe term, “biodiversity,” although 90% answered that they did not knowabout the ecosystems surrounding them. They understood the relation-ship between biodiversity and business activities, particularly at thepoint of purchasing raw materials. Actions taken thus far had mainlybeen in-house volunteer activities; there was no cooperation with NPOsor NGOs that directly addressed biodiversity. We intend to draw uponthis data to develop future efforts.Step 1  QuestionnaireBiodiversity Conservation 
Recognizing that, along with climate change, biodiversity is another important CSR issue for the Fujifilm Group, 
we are developing a specific action plan incorporating views from within and outside the Group.
Questionnaire on biodiversity 
within the Fujifilm Group
March 2008
22 companies respondedDialogues held
(With future generation and experts)
March and May 2008Study session held
(For executives and managers)
Scheduled for fiscal 2008Determine policy: by the end of fiscal 2008
Determine strategies: by the end of 
fiscal 2009Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4
Self-recognition Compare the views of others
(Difference in views 
between oneself and others)Identify problems 
and share understandingClarify the Fujifilm Group’s 
stance and strategies
After the Biodiversity
Stakeholder DialoguesCOMMENTS
If I were to share my honest impression of the Dialogue with the
Future Generation (junior high and high school students), whatcomes to mind is the saying, we must not underestimate youngpeople. Statements and questions by the future generation werefrank and got to the point. At the same time, I felt, from whatthey said, that young people also learned a great deal from theattitudes of employees, who sincerely listened as adults to theopinions of the future generation. In addition, I sensed at the dia-logue in May the Fujifilm Group’s firm determination to do itsbest despite not yet being completely familiar with biodiversity. Iwould like to continue supporting the Group’s efforts.
Mr. Masayuki Aoki
Facilitator, Aoki Masayuki Facilitator OfficeIt is important to recognize the meaning and significance of biodiversity
conservation. We intend to promote in-house education about biodiver-sity conservation and clearly present the stance and policy of the Groupto move this dialogue toward concrete activities and measures acrossthe Fujifilm Group.Looking to the future
The stakeholder dialogues for 2008 focused on conserving biodiversityand consisted of two parts, a Dialogue with the Future Generation and aDialogue with Experts. The Dialogue with the Future Generation was afirst for the Fujifilm Group. Since the issue of biodiversity conservationreaches across generations, cooperation between adults and futuregenerations is vital. The goal of this dialogue was to seek clues andexplore methods for effective inter-generational discussions to encour-age a level of cooperation in which all generations stand on an equalfooting. We will continue to hold these conversations with the futuregeneration and experts.Step 2  Stakeholder dialogueSince there is an abundant source of water, there are many
paper mills in Fujinomiya, Shizuoka Prefecture, where theFujifilm Fujinomiya Factory is located. In the event of watershortages due to a decline in rainfall or drop in the level ofunderground waters, the municipal government gives priority tolocal agriculture and orders factories and other facilities to stoptaking in water. Consequently, both surface and undergroundwater are subject to restrictions, requiring the FujinomiyaFactory to cut water usage to maintain operations. Actions takenby the factory included installing water-saving production facili-ties from 1990 to 1992. However, production continues toexpand every year, and the issue of water resources has becomeurgent. From 2002, the Fujinomiya Factory launched an initiativeunder the Utility Supply Section, which has yielded major results.
The section meticulously analyzed production processes andcalculated the standard figures for minimal water usagerequired by each workplace. It also advanced activities to raiseawareness of these figures at each workplace. At the sametime, the Utility Supply Section conducted ongoing monitoringto maintain proper water volumes and provided instruction towork sites. The plant also reviewed production processes thatused well water and shifted to recycled water. Recognizing thatwater conservation is a daily concern not just during the sum-mer, when shortages occur, the plant implements effortsthroughout the entire year. In addition, the Fujinomiya Factorydeployed a variety of approaches. For example, the UtilitySupply Section forecasted water shortages and enhanced asense of urgency throughout the factory by using simulations ithad independently developed based on changes in the under-ground water level, which occurs once every 10 years.As a result, the factory reduced water consumption by 13% in2005 and by 22% in 2006 compared to 2002. This effort notonly reduced costs but also realized the sustainable usage ofwater resources, for which there are no alternatives, and ful-filled the key mission of maintaining plant operations.
Searching for sustainable water resources, 
equivalent to annual cost savings of ¥1.1274 billion * Conserving biodiversity is a priority issue for the Fujifilm Group’s medium-term CSR Plan. Fujifilm has designated it as a focus point for
stakeholder dialogues since 2005 and has maintained ongoing discussions. As a result, we have reconfirmed the responsibility of theFujifilm Group to seriously address the issue of conserving biodiversity since we draw upon so many natural resources in our products andservices. To turn this belief into action, we will start from a self-recognition of the profound interconnections between biodiversity and ourown business operations. We will then advance to do what we can, step by step, based on sincerely heeding the opinions of stake holders
and clearly grasping the needs of society.Clarifying our policy and developing concrete measures
Related page Page 87: Water input (Consolidated)
Related pages Page 29: Progress evaluation of the Medium-term CSR Plan  Page 35: Clarifying basic policies on biodiversity
URL http://www.saludareedy.org/
CSR Activities Report Biodiversity Conservation
69 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 68 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008
A Dialogue with the Future Generation:
“Learn the value of living things; protect and preserve them—What can we do and what should we do?”
On March 28, 2008, a dialogue was held with the future generation
focused on biodiversity conservation as a new effort. Representingthe future generation were seven junior high and high school stu-dents who had been awarded the Grand Prize and Prize forExcellence in the 24th Forest Road Viewing Contest. Also participat-ing as adult generations were three experts from outside the com-pany and three Fujifilm Group employees.
For the question, “How urgent do you think the situation is regarding
living things?” participants discussed the present conditions. Afterexchanging ideas, they came to a common understanding that thesituation is indeed serious across the globe due to abnormalchanges in ecosystems, environmental destruction, and unabatedglobal warming.Part 1  Status of creatures—sharing information 
on present conditionsIn order to learn the value of living things and to protect and con-serve them, participants explored the challenges together and pre-sented their ideas for what we can do and what we should do.
1. Increase opportunities to commune with, feel close to, and
experience nature.
2. Become a consumer who is satisfied with just enough.
Select environmentally friendly products in daily life as a
“green consumer.” 
3. Act with an eye on the future. Act on things we can do.
Never give up and keep your hopes alive.
1. What should we do to convey and spread awareness and
environmental conservation activities, such as being a“green consumer,” with those around us?
●Live by example. Start off with something near by.
●Show specific achievements.
●Work on this for the long-term, beyond generations, in placessuch as schools. 
●Create an “eco is so cool” fad, such as eco-bags and others.
2
. Who should we get involved to commune with and feel
close to nature more? 
●Friends and family.
●Small children, by developing themes like bugs that are interest-ing for them.
3.
What would you like the Fujifilm Group to do? 
●Lend field scopes and microscopes.
●Support biology clubs across the country.
●Hold photo contests with nature as the theme. 
●Hold eco-tours along with lectures on how to use digital cameras.
●At digital photo printing at convenience stores, discount printcharges for photos taken with observing nature as a theme.
●
Use closed schools and other buildings to hold workshops for pro-tecting culture and traditions as well as for experiencing nature. 
●Have employees bring their own chopsticks and stop using dis-posable chopsticks.Part 3  What can we do? What should we do?
The participants were posed the questions of what they knew anddidn’t know about issues related to biodiversity and explored theiranswers while listening to comments from experts.
“What I don’t know.” (Excerpts)
●How many species of living things are there?
●How can we eliminate introduced species and naturalized plants?
How can we stop them from spreading? 
●Who is ultimately responsible for nature? 
●Is it possible to restore nature that has been destroyed? 
●
To what extent must developed countries lower their standards of living?
●Can nature be protected by laws?
●I don’t know what nature was like 20 years ago.
●Can the Earth really be restored by halting the destruction ofnature taking place right now?Part 2  “What I don’t know and what I do know”
Outside participants
•Facilitator: Mr. Masayuki Aoki•Facilitation graphics: Mr. Soshi Shiga
Future generation: Grand Prize and Prize for Excellence winners for the 24th
Forest Road Viewing Contest•Ms. Sayaka Sugawara, Teine Junior High School•Ms. Chika Inoue, Hakuryo Junior High School•Mr. Takahiro Murayama, Junshin-gakuin Junior High School  •Mr. Kazuki Motoda, Tokyo University of Agriculture Daiichi High School•Ms. Tomomi Kitano, Chuo University High School•Mr. Ryota Senou, University of Hyogo High School•Mr. Yusuke Nakanishi, University of Hyogo High School
Adult generation
•Mr. Mitsuyuki Okamoto, Director, Office of Communication with Nature,
Policy and Coordination Division, Nature Conservation Bureau, Ministry ofthe Environment 
•Mr. Masatsugu Taniguchi, Journalist covering resources and the environment•Mr. Toshiyuki Okura, Director, Science Communication and Education
Conservation Division, WWF JapanA Dialogue with Experts: 
The Fujifilm Group’s relationship with biodiversity
Following the Dialogue with the Future Generation on March 28,
2008, a Dialogue with Experts was held on May 15, 2008.Participants included eight experts from outside the company whohave been pursuing activities at the forefront of biodiversity and fouremployees from the Fujifilm Group. FUJIFILM Holdings explained the Group’s perspective on biodiver-sity and the overall outline of the action plan. Following a report onthe results of the biodiversity questionnaire, which had been con-ducted inside the Group, and a summary of the Dialogue with theFuture Generation, participants started their own discussion on themain theme.
●
Biodiversity is generic term referring to all forms of life on the earth,
as well as all species, eco-systems and ecologic processes that pro-vide people with economic value, ecological services, and insightinto the value of existence. A key issue for every company is how totackle biodiversity conservation in its main business as well as thoseactivities that are not directly related to business operations.
●Decreasing biodiversity creates risks for sustainable corporategrowth. Future plans will become clearer by grasping our impacton eco-systems and the ecological services we benefit fromacross the entire supply chain as well as by analyzing and examin-ing future business risks.
●Expectations are rising for a low carbon, recycling-oriented soci-ety that co-exists with nature. Even in the course of supportingbiodiversity as a social contribution, companies should be awarethat these efforts are part of their core business. Every companydepends on biodiversity. 
●A long-term time frame is necessary. Since companies are usedto analyzing and evaluating business results in the context of ahalf-year or quarter, their perspective might not include reflectionon their situation 20 years in the past or estimating risks 20 yearsin the future. The time span of biodiversity is fundamentally differ-ent from the time span of regular business activities. 
●In business operations, simplification leads to tremendous risks.It is necessary to have many options and to restore diverse per-spectives. The era in which a company can thrive as a businesswith only one area of strength is over. ●What will make a difference is whether a company can recognizeunforeseen risks in 10 or 20 years as risks to the present. 
●
Companies should work on R&D on how to use resources longer andwiser. Companies that consider alternative energy sources as wellas the use of crude oil will have an overwhelming advantage. Therisk is immense for any company making a product that depends ondiminishing resources; on the other hand, a company making a prod-uct that depends on bio-resources will gain a competitive edge.
●Fujifilm has profited from products that use bio-resources, suchas triacetate and cellulose for photographic film and LCD filmproducts; however, there has been no concept of a bio-resourcebenefit. I want to think about this.
●
Since the risk to biodiversity is hard to envision, a company lacks asense of crisis and may prefer to move slowly. However, the risk canmanifest itself in an instant and can be extremely dangerous once ithas occurred. This is the situation that we now must face. We hadbetter start right now, even though we are not fully prepared. We willnot, however, gain multifaceted value if we don’t think in a way thatreflects a variety of options, like a radar chart that isn’t bound to asingle value. There is no one easy pathway to biodiversity. 
●There is the concept of PES (Payment for Ecological Services).This concept evaluates things that represent a benefit fromnature. If an analysis using a specific index were available, thecompany could easily take action.
●Like forests are not just for lumber but also prevent water-relateddisasters by retaining water, we must grasp the multiple functionsof natural resources. 
●Especially in the case of Japan, it is necessary to develop a philos-ophy for why we must do this.  Without this foundational philoso-phy, efforts will not last against the influence of businessconditions and will completely dissipate eventually.Opinions
These dialogues on biodiversity in 2008 represented a departurefrom the existing seminar styles and are one step closer to a morepractical discussion. Both dialogues, with the future generation andwith experts, started from the perspective of how this issue can beincorporated into the Fujifilm Group’s businesses. This approachprovided the opportunity for lively discussions and an opportunity forall participants to learn as well as providing many suggestions forthe Fujifilm Group’s efforts. We will continue these dialogues andsincerely listen to the ideas expressed in them.ConclusionOutside participants
•Facilitator: Mr. Hideto Kawakita, CEO of IIHOE (International Institute for
Human, Organization, and the Earth)
Outside experts•Mr. Masayuki Aoki, Facilitator, Aoki Masayuki Facilitator Office•Mr. Naoki Adachi, CEO, Response Ability, Inc.      •Ms. Mikako Awano, Director, Head of Business Partnership Marketing Group,
Fundraising & Marketing Communications, WWF Japan
•Mr. Norihiro Itsubo, Associate Professor, Faculty of Environmental and
Information Studies, Musashi Institute of Technology
•Mr. Mistuyuki Okamoto, Director, Office of Communication with Nature,
Policy and Coordination Division, Nature Conservation Bureau, Ministry ofthe Environment 
•Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi, Senior Analyst, Management Strategy Research
Department, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.
•Mr. Yasushi Hibi, Director, Japan Program Conservation International •Mr. 
Toshihiko Fujii, Consulting Fellow, Research Institute of Economy, Trade and
Industry, IAAFOCUS : Stakeholder Dialogue FOCUS : Stakeholder Dialogue
Three things we can do, from the discussion:
Proposals for things we should do:Approximately 300,000 people in Japan are visually impaired. Of
this total, 60-70% are said to have amblyopia, a condition thatmakes it difficult for children to study. For this reason, volunteergroups have been preparing large-font textbooks by hand. Thisprocess requires several people and more than two months tomake one textbook, cutting and pasting enlarged color copies ofillustrations, photographs, maps, graphs, and other elements.Therefore, Fuji Xerox has offered the use of color copy machinesat sales offices and sales companies, free of charge, to volunteergroups and legal guardians of children and students with ambly-opia since 1989. In addition, employees of these offices andcompanies assist in making copies and providing services to alle-viate the time-consuming, labor-intensive burden of makinglarge-font textbooks.This support service started in one area of Kanagawa Prefecture.Once the effort went nationwide in 1994, it became widely rec-ognized and is now indispensable for making large-font text-books. In fiscal 2007, 82 volunteer groups and legal guardians ofchildren and students with amblyopia made use of this service,producing a total of 790,000 large-font color copies, a 4.8%increase from the previous year, and provided free of charge at48 sales offices nationwide. In recent years, Fuji Xerox hasenthusiastically supported the preparation of textbooks by elec-tronically cuttingand pasting usingDocuWorks soft-ware. Fuji Xerox willcontinue this effortas a social contri-bution that makesoptimal use of itscore business.Fundraising and donations for medical fields
FUJIFILM Australia Pty Ltd runs a number of fundraising pro-grams each year for medical-related fields, including the CancerCouncil, the National Breast Cancer Foundation, the LeukaemiaFoundation, research activities associated with Sudden InfantDeath Syndrome (SIDS), among others. Employees volunteer toraise funds at event venues and the company supports staff bymaking a donation to event sponsors.
Tree planting and donations to the Cancer Association by employees and the company
FUJIFILM Europe NV and FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NV inBelgium supported local tree-planting activities started by theFlemish League against Cancer in December 2007. Support forthis activity has the dual objectives of contributing to the crusadeagainst cancer through buying trees and contributing to the pro-tection of the environment by planting the trees. The companyencouraged employees to purchase trees by making a matchingpurchase for every tree bought by employees (at € 7 per tree).
The number of trees ultimately bought was 250, exceeding the
initial target of 220 trees, which represented at least one tree forevery Fujifilm employee in Belgium. The trees were planted onMarch 16, 2008, and a small Fujifilm forest was born. Officepaper-saving activities were also launched to commemorate thisday. A delegation of employees attended the tree-planting cere-mony and the mayor of Sint-Nicklaas expressed thanks to allFujifilm employees. A total of 5,200 trees were sold and plantedin this Flemish League activity, a strong show of citizen support.efforts have borne fruit. While many other funds subsidizeresearch, few support the activities themselves. This is the out-standing feature of FGF. 
Activities supported by the Fujifilm Green Fund
FGF grants subsidies by inviting proposals for financial assis-
tance from the public. A total of 86 applications were receivedin fiscal 2007, including 41 for activities and 45 for research.After rigorous review, the following four were selected toreceive funding.
It has become increasingly urgent to investigate the
causes and conditions leading to the declining num-bers of red dragonflies, a symbol of Japanese land-scapes. A nationwide survey of red dragonflies sup-ports conservation of watershed habitats (lakes, rivers,ponds) by encouraging a nationwide count of red drag-onflies and posting the data on a website. ● Nationwide Survey of Red Dragonflies
(Executive Committee of the National Citizen’s Summit on Dragonflies)
A research group is applying a scientific approach tospotlight the effects of traditional pond draining andsludge removal. The research is being conducted at apond (a protected habitat for the Japanese rosy bitter-ling) on the campus of Osaka University of Economicsand Law. The group analyzes soil, water, and sludgebefore and after draining the pond, and posts theiractivities, data, and research papers on a website.● Effects of “Dobi-nagashi,” Pond Draining and 
Sludge Removal—a traditional water circulation system 
that protects the Japanese Rose Bitterling(Takayasu Study Group of Japanese Rose Bitterling) 
This institute is conducting a nationwide survey of
the distribution of Paleozoic and current oyster reefs.It is also investigating water purity, depth, year estab-lished, salt density, and other living organisms inreefs that are spread throughout river mouths ininner bays and mudflats to produce a report on oys-ter reef distribution nationwide, including a database,photos, and information.● Research and Conservation of Eco-systems of Oyster Reefs in Japan
(Mr. Hiroyoshi Yamashita, Director, Malacological Diversity Research Institute)
This group is clarifying the causes behind the declinein a native species of dandelion in cities while Westerndandelions increase with the objective of tacklingissues related to introduced species. It will test thehypothesis that the decrease in fruition rates is causedby the adherence of pollen from Western dandelionson the stigma of Kansai dandelions.● Study on the Cause of Native Species Pushed Out 
by Introduced Species in Urban Environments
(Mr. Takashi Matsumoto, The Graduate School of Human and Environmental Sciences, Kyoto University) CSR Activities Report
71 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 70 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Contributing to Society 
The Fujifilm Group, as a global enterprise, has been implementing activities that contribute to 
the sustainable growth of local communities around the world.
Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy
The Fujifilm Group will work together with local communities as a
good corporate citizen and contribute to society by respondingsincerely to the demands and expectations of those communi-ties. The Group has established the following action plan forimplementing this policy.
1. Main activities
The Fujifilm Group will primarily focus on the fields of: research and educa-
tion; culture, the arts and sports; health; and environmental conservation.
2. Importance of these activities(1) Undertake these activities through cooperation and collaborationIn implementing these activities, the Fujifilm Group places importanceon communication and partnerships with NPO/NGOs, local communi-ties and others. (2) Active support for volunteer activitiesThe Fujifilm Group values living in harmony with local communities andcontributing to society through the voluntary participation of employeesand fully supports these activities.
Large-font textbook
Tree-planting ceremony (left), and poster at registration tent for the tree-planting cere-
mony (right)Volunteer activities Fundraiser Date EventDonations
Pink Ribbon DayJeans for Genes DayBig Morning TeaWorld’s Greatest Shave
October 22, 
2007August 3, 
2007May 24, 
2007March 16, 
2007Leukaemia FoundationStaff participated as 
volunteers and 
raised money 
(support from the company).Amount raised: A$1,311
Staff participated 
as volunteers and 
raised money
(support from the company).Amount raised: A$500
Staff purchased products 
offered by sponsors (support from the company). 
Amount raised: A$1,000
Staff participated 
as volunteers and 
raised money
(support from the company). Amount raised: A$570Cancer Council
In support of research 
activities associated with Sudden 
Infant Death Syndrome
National Breast Cancer 
FoundationAs an upstanding corporate citizen, the Fujifilm Group accepts
its fundamental responsibilities to live in harmony with localcommunities and contribute to their sustainable development aswell as to faithfully meet the needs and expectations of society.Based on this concept, Fujifilm has formulated an action planand actively engages in various efforts worldwide.Basic concepts
Donations to charities in concert with Wal-Mart Canada
FUJIFILM Canada Inc. has been making ongoing donations to theNPO Children’s Miracles Network in partnership with Wal-MartCanada. The donated money is distributed to hospitals acrossNorth America. In the past two years, this support has amountedto total of C$400,000. In addition, Fujifilm Canada actively supports the CanadianBreast Cancer Foundation (CBCF) utilizing marketing initiativesfor products such as QuickSnap. In exchange for placing theCBCF logo on the body of QuickSnap, the company donatedC$50,000 (approximately ¥4.9 million) in 2007.Activities by overseas business sitesCopy machines and DocuWorks utilization:
Fuji Xerox supports the preparation of large-font textbooks
In 1983, Fujifilm placed ¥1 billion in a public trust, the Fujifilm
Green Fund (FGF), to provide support for preserving and foster-ing the natural environment. This was the first nature preserva-tion trust ever established by a private-sector enterprise in Japanand is widely recognized as a pioneering effort in this field. FGF supports activities in the following four categories: (1) theplanting of forest areas for future use, (2) projects that support“greening” activities, (3) assistance for activities that encouragecontact with nature, and (4) support for research related to thepreservation and use of greenery. In the 25 years since its estab-lishment, FGF has provided a total of approximately ¥690 millionto 95 projects to aid and subsidize research and activities involv-ing preserving and nurturing the natural environment, and these25-year support for preserving and 
fostering the natural environment:The Fujifilm Green FundRelated page Page 84: Classifications of social contribution activities
The Dayton Factory of FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc.
sponsors a class trip to the state capitol for fifth grade schoolstudents of Graysville Elementary School every year and alsoprovides T-shirts and QuickSnap. Employees at the plantsponsor and judge a photo contest with photographs thatchildren took during the field trip. In 2007, children wereinvited to the factory on May 10 for a tour and prize winnersfor the photo contest wereannounced. The three top
entries were awarded Wal-Mart gift certificates of $50,$25 and $15, and receivedframed prints of their prizewinning photographs. Dayton Factory sponsors a field trip 
for local elementary schoolthat the global environment
can be improved if Fujifilmand local residents do theirpart and work together.In October 2007, an “Environmental Dialogue Meeting in Odawa2007” was held at the Odawara site of Fujifilm’s KanagawaFactory. The goal was to explain and discuss activities for envi-ronmental preservation and disaster prevention with communityresidents. Approximately 150 people participated. The meetingconsisted of two parts, with the first part a factory tour and thesecond focusing on a pres-entation of Fujifilm’s environ-mental activities, followed bya discussion. Participants
asked many questionsabout such concerns assubstances discharged fromthe factory.In addition, the Third Environmental Dialogue Meeting was alsoheld at Fujifilm’s Fujinomiya Factory in February 2008, with theparticipation of 30 residents and officials from the local govern-ment of Onakazato in Fujinomiya City, where the plant islocated. A lively discussion was held. The Q&A included a num-ber of questions about the white, smoke-like steam emitted fromthe smoke stacks of power generation facilities, and participantsencouraged the continuation of efforts to reduce environmentalburdens. The Fujifilm personin charge sincerely answeredeach question in detail.Fujifilm intends to furtherstrengthen communicationswith residents by lookinginto more effective ways tohold these meetings.Sustainability program to support destitute children
FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda. has been continuously helping needychildren and adolescents achieve a better life and a brighterfuture. Food, toys and other goods are donated to charitableinstitutions and organizations according to their specific needs.The company is placing special emphasis on this social activityas part of its support for charitable organizations through sus-tainability programs for one year. Organizations are selected toreceive support after con-firming that certain require-ments are met, includingthe demonstration of soundmanagement and opera-tions and a rejection ofanti-social activities.
Company supports Volunteer Day
FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V. (The Netherlands) spon-sors an annual volunteer day that encourages employees totake part in a local activity, such as community beautification orcleaning houses for the elderly. In 2007, 250 employees partic-ipated in the program. Employees were divided into 25 teamsof 10 employees each, with each team working on a differentday to minimize impact on company operations. Employeesused a half day of paid holiday with the company granting therest of the day off.Building awareness of environmental conservation by supporting the Rainforest Alliance’s photo contest
Three Fujifilm affiliates *1in the United States jointly spon-
sored the first Rainforest Alliance (RA) *2“Picture
Sustainability” Photo Contest, held in 2007. (The companieswill continue their support in 2008.) Any U.S. citizen oremployee of Fujifilm affiliated companies is invited to partici-pate in this photo contest. Prize winners were awarded aFujifilm FinePix S100FS digital camera and the grand-prizewinner received a trip to the Galapagos Islands and a trip toNew York City (courtesy of Fujifilm). The grand-prize and first-prize winning photographs inthe photo contest were auctioned off at an annual gala, andthe proceeds donated to the RA. In addition, Fujifilm initiated anationwide radio promotion during February and March 2007as part of its overall support. Local stations ran promotionalspots during peak listening hours. 
The photo contest was
announced during pro-grams and listeners wereencouraged to submitentries. Participating sta-tions were located inmajor cities throughoutthe United States, includ-ing New York, Los Angeles,Chicago an
d Boston. 
PEI volunteer group
A PEI (Preferred Employee Initiative) volunteer group, consistingof employees of FUJIFILMDimatix, Inc. (USA), holdsfundraising activities andgives the donations to char-itable organizations, cancerresearch, and other causes.CSR Activities Report Contributing to Society
73 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 72 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008
Members of the PEI volunteer groupFundraising details
Listen Center Fuel Assistance Program
(Fuel program by a group that provides 
family support and economic independence)
CHaD (Children’s Hospital at Dartmouth)
United Way 
(A coalition of charitable organizations 
in the United States)
Norwich Catholic Church
The Haven
The HavenThe Haven (Group that offers 
simple accommodations, meals, clothing, 
and employment training support) Donation Period Donated Items Recipient Organization
April 2007
August 2007$331 and approximately
110 kg of food
$5,000 raised in silent auction$500 raised in a Valentine raffleFebruary 2007
$500 donation$16,000 raised through 
a golf tournamentAugust 2007
September 2007
Books to be sent to Nigeria
$522 raised by Turkey Raffle
Clothing
Funds to purchase items raised by a raffleOctober 2007
November 2007
December 2007Working Together with 
Local Communities 
Fujifilm Group sites in Japan and overseas communicate with local communities and 
residents to carry out various activities.
Environmental Dialogue Meeting at the
Kanagawa Factory
Environmental Dialogue Meeting at the
Fujinomiya Factory
A photo contest and plant tour for local
fifth graders
Children who participated in the environ-
mental program
Recipient
OrganizationDonationPeriodDonated Items Comments
São Paulo Office Manaus PlantDonations
Evaldo FozHospitalAugust 8,2007Blood for hospital patients A blood donation tent was set up at the office. Employees donated blood in an organized fashion to maintain regular company operations.
The amount donated was equivalent to two months used by the Home. The Home is dedicated to educating and sheltering destitute children.
This was a Christmas campaign 
to purchase park apparatus.
Old furniture, which was unlikely to be used in the office, having no commercial value, was donated.
Vhida Home shelters children with SIDA. SOS Aldeias provides shelter and education to needy children.
Food assistance is given to Antonio Aleixo Hospital and entities that provide treatment for Hansen’s disease (leprosy).900 kg of milk, rice, beans, oil, sugar, salt, and other goods
Money to buy 
Christmas presents for needy children
Used office equipment 
such as table and chairs
Employees donated 
more than 600 toys
1,800 kg of rice, beans, 
oil, milk, and other goodsSeptember2007
December
2007
January
2008
October
2007
December
2007São TiegoHome
Vhida Home
and SOSAldeias
Antonio Aleixo
Hospital 
*1The three Fujifilm affiliates are: FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation, FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc., and FUJI-
FILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc. 
*2The Rainforest Alliance is an international non-profit conservation organization established in 1981 to pro-tect rain forests and maintain biodiversity.Rainforest Alliance “Picture Sustainability”
Photo Contest 2008 websiteGiving out Christmas presents to children atSão Tiago Home
URL http://www.raphotocontest.org/CSR Activities Report
Environmental Dialogue Meetings
The Manaus Plant, a production base for FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda.
has been developing its Environmental Awareness Program since2004 to offer information on the importance of environmentalconservation to the community surrounding the plant. Between2004 and 2007, 17 programs were launched with the participa-tion of 581 young people in the community. Commonly experi-enced challenges were explained, including the basic conceptsof recycling, waste reduction, water conservation and the ration-alization of energy consumption as well as environmental pollu-tion. The goal of this activity is to have young people recognizeConducting continuous environmental education 
for young people in local communitiesA national park has been under construction since 2006 in the
neighborhood around FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V. (TheNetherlands) and is scheduled for completion in 2010. The com-pany has been offering financial support of 
€50,000 (approxi-
mately ¥7.8 million) over three years. Several kilometers of apleasant promenade will be constructed in the park with thissupport. In addition, to mark the company’s 25th anniversary, itprovided another 
€50,000 (approximately ¥7.8 million), enough
for five of the 25 street cars that are planned to be introduced inthe city of Tilburg. A campaign to increase the number of streetcars started two years ago in this town, and FUJIFILMManufacturing Europe has been supporting this effort.Funding street cars and a promenade 
through a national park75 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 74 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008
Data and Information
Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI ; “Hashihime ” (Quire 50), Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum
Returning from the Imperial Palace, Niounomiya high-handedly wooed Ukifune, not knowing she was the half-sister of Nakanokimi, his wife. In an effort to comfort Ukifune, who had narrowly escaped from a crisis, Nakanokimi
talked to her gently, had her attendants pull out a picture scroll and had Ukon, a lady-in-waiting, read passages that accompanied the pictures. The appearance of Ukifune gazing at the scroll reminded Nakanokimi of her latesister Onokimi as well as her late father Hachinomiya, and brought her to tears.This section contains basic information about CSR
activities and quantitative information regardingenvironmental aspects, personnel and labor affairs.
Compliance and Risk Management 76
Product Safety Management System/
IMS Certified Sites 78
Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting/
Communication with Stakeholders 79
Communication with Customers 80
Personnel and Labor (Fujifilm) 81
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) 82
Material Procurement (Fujifilm and its affiliates) 83
Paper and Paper Material Procurement/Classification of Social Contribution Activities 84
Environmental Accounting 85
Environmental Aspects 86Data and Information Compliance and Risk Management Data and Information Compliance and Risk Management
>>>Compliance education (Fujifilm in Japan) 
>>>Compliance education (Fuji Xerox in Japan) 
>>>Acquisition of P-Mark and ISMS
>>>System to collect information on risk (Fujifilm)
>>>Risk management system (Fuji Xerox)>>>Compliance and risk management promotional organization (Fujifilm and its affiliates) 
>>>Corporate ethics and compliance promotion system (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates) 
>>>Compliance and risk management promotional milestones
77 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 76 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Compliance and risk management promotional 
organization (Fujifilm and its affiliates)
Compliance and risk management promotional milestonesCorporate ethics and compliance promotion system
(Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
Total Risk Management Committee
Chairman: President
• Vice chairman:
Executive officer responsible for 
CSR management
• Regular committee members:
Executive officer responsible 
for consolidated corporate managementExecutive officer responsible 
for general administrationExecutive officer responsible for legal affairsExecutive officer responsible for PR• Vice chairman:
Executive Officer responsible for 
CSR management
• Regular committee members:
Executive officer responsible 
for consolidated corporate managementExecutive officer responsible for personnel
Executive officer responsible for general administrationExecutive officer responsible for legal affairsRoles:1. Prevention of the actualization and 
expansion of risks
2. Undertaking preparatory measures
3. Implementation of preventive activities
Chairman: PresidentCompliance Committee
Roles:1. Dissemination of the Fujifilm Group 
Charter for Corporate Behavior 
and Code of Conduct
2. Follow-up to the dissemination 
of the Code of Conduct
3. Response to violations to the Code of ConductCSR Division 
Compliance and 
Risk Management
Division
General Manager of Compliance 
and Risk Management DivisionOffice Office General Manager of 
Compliance and Risk 
Management DivisionGeneral Manager of Compliance and 
Risk Management Division
Establishment of organization and system
1997Provision of charter, code and regulations Increase in employees’ awareness and monitoring
■ Establishment of the Code of Conduct Committee ■ Establishment of the Employee Code of Conduct ■ Release of Case Book Employee Code of Conduct
■ Seminar on the Employee Code of Conduct
■ Start of corporate ethics training for executive officers and managers
■ First implementation of compliance awareness survey
■ Start of education of ethics and information security ■ Revision of the Employee Code of Conduct
■ Revision of the Employee Code of Conduct
■ Establishment of the Ethics and 
Compliance Management Regulations■ Start of compliance information meeting (Implemented annually since then)■ Start of compliance awareness survey (Implemented annually since then)
■ Start of release of compliance guidelines according to legal subjects■ 
Survey conducted to confirm compliance with the Employee Code of Conduct by 
each division in Fujifilm and domestic affiliates (Implemented annually since then)■ Establishment of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior
■ Establishment of the Employee Code of Conduct
■ Revision of the Employee Code of Conduct■ Establishment of Ethics Consultation Desk and 
Sexual Harassment Hotline
■ Pledges submitted by all executive officers and division heads■ Establishment of Corporate Ethics Committee
■ Establishment of a dedicated contact point for the Corporate 
Ethics Committee
■ Pledges submitted by all managerial personnel
■ Pledges submitted by new managerial personnel
■ Start of risk reporting system
■ Rename to Compliance Committee■ Establishment of Compliance Office in the Legal Division■ Establishment of Compliance Consulting facility
■ Start of identification and management of key risk issues
■ Establishment of the Ethics and Compliance Committee■ Establishment of the Corporate Ethics Helpline
■ Establishment of the Compliance and Risk Management Division 
(Reorganized Compliance Office in the Legal Division)■ Revision of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior ■ Distribution of Compendium of Compliance Case Studies for managerial personnel
■ Start of basic training on laws
■ Start of education of the protection of personal information
■ Revision of Compendium of Compliance Case Studies■ Start of study sessions for Compendium of Case Studies at each workplace 
(Implemented annually since then)
■ Distribution of CDs for education of the protection of personal information■ Start of compliance activities at overseas bases■ Expansion of compliance awareness survey to domestic affiliates ■ Revision of Corporate Philosophy and establishment of Vision
■ Implementation of seminars for managerial personnel by external instructors■ 
Implementation of case method training managerial personnel at domestic affiliates 
by external instructors
■ Expansion of compliance information meeting to domestic affiliates
■ Introduction of programs for preventing illegal practices
■ Distribution of Compendium of Information Security Case Studies ■ Revision of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior■ Establishment of the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct
■ Establishment of the ALL-FX Code of Conduct 
(Total revision of Employee Code of Conduct)■ ■ Distribution of Antimonopoly Act Compliance Manual 
■ Introduction of web response method for Compliance Awareness Survey
■ Distribution of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and 
the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct
■ 
Distribution of English version of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior  
and the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct
■ Distribution of The Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct Guidebook
■ Implementation of education on the Fujifilm Group Charter and Code of Conduct 
for managerial personnel at overseas subsidiaries
■ Start of ALL-FX Code of Conduct education■ Start of case method training for managerial personnel 
(Implemented every two years since then) ■ Expansion of coverage of Compliance Consulting to 
domestic affiliates
■ Establishment of external consulting facility
■ Establishment of the FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Committee
■ Proclamation signed by all employees
■ Identification and management of key risk issues expanded to 
domestic affiliates1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
■ FUJIFILM Corporation ■ Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. ■ FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors
Business execution (President)
Risk and Ethics Committee
Ethics and Compliance CommitteeInternal Audit &
Analysis Department
Human Resources Department
Organization of Fuji Xerox and its affiliatesGeneral Affairs Department Legal Affairs DepartmentCompliance education (Fujifilm in Japan)
Compliance education (Fuji Xerox in Japan)Intended audience Frequency Details
Top Management (Fujifilm) As appropriate Overall compliance (by external instructors)
Overall compliance (by external instructors) 
Business ethics, customer-orientation, confidential information management, etc. (by external instructors and CP & RM*)
Examples of corporate misconduct, punitive actions, consulting facility, risk reporting system, etc. (by CP & RM *)
Overall compliance (by corporate executive officers in charge of CSR)
Discussions based on compliance case studies (by managerial personnel)
Basic knowledge of compliance, employee code of conduct, corporate rule, consulting facility, etc. (by CP & RM*)Once a year
Once every two years (Case method training)
Once a year (Compliance information meeting)
Once a yearOnce a year
Once a yearExecutive officers of Fujifilm affiliates
Managerial personnel (Fujifilm and its affiliates)
New managerial personnel (Fujifilm)
All employees (Fujifilm and its affiliates, including agency contract employees)
New employees (Fujifilm)
*CP & RM: Compliance & Risk Management Division of FUJIFILM Corporation
*1 Privacy Mark (P-Mark): A mark granted
by the Japan Information Processing
Development Corporation (JIPDEC) tocompanies in which personal informa-tion is handled appropriately.
*2 ISMS: Certification regarding the
overall management framework forinformation including personalinformation (Information SecurityManagement System).Acquisition of P-Mark and ISMS
Certified affiliates Certification
P-Mark *1
ISMS *2FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd./FUJIFILM IMAGING Co., Ltd./FUJIFILM LOGISTICS CO., LTD./FUJIFILM Techno Service Co., Ltd./
Fuji Xerox Career Net Co. Ltd./Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd./Fuji Xerox Learning Institute Inc.FUJIFILM Graphic Systems Co., Ltd./FUJIFILM Software Co., Ltd./ Fuji Xerox Office Services Business Group/Fuji Xerox Business & Supply Chain Innovation Unit/Fuji Xerox Sales & Marketing, Broadband Business Development Unit/Fuji Xerox domestic sales representative and sales companies /Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd./Xworks Co., Ltd./
Fuji Xerox Interfield Co., Ltd./Fuji Xerox Prefectural Dealers 11 companies (12 offices)/Fuji Xerox of Shanghai Limited/Fuji Xerox Korea Company Limited
System to collect information on risk (Fujifilm) Risk management system (Fuji Xerox)
Risk Management
Committee
Risk management
promotion meetingRisk and Ethics Committee
Legal Department
of the SecretariatEthics and Compliance
CommitteeInformation Security
Liaison GroupGeneral Affairs 
Department of 
the Secretariat
Information Security
Department of
the Secretariat
Operation meeting of each groupCorporate Executive CommitteePresident
Risk management
promotion meeting
Risk management
promotion meetingRisk management
promotion meetingRisk management
promotion meeting
Employees of Fujifilm affiliatesEmployees of Fujifilm
Employees of FujifilmGeneral Manager of Supervising Division in FujifilmSupervisor
Office of Total Risk Management Committee
 (General Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
Office of Compliance Committee (General Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
Compliance and Risk Management DivisionEmployees of Fujifilm affiliates
Presidents of Fujifilm affiliatesSupervisor
Compliance consulting facility 
Set up at each Fujifilm affiliateExternal compliance consulting
facility*Compliance consulting facility 
Compliance and 
Risk Management Division
* External compliance consulting facility is set up for employees in cases where, for whatever the reason, they
feel they cannot directly report to company or supervisor, even if they find risk-related information. The
Group implements follow up inspections once every six months.Training namesIntended audience (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates) 
Executive officers Managers General employees Contract employees Other employeesPersonnel in charge
of promotionContent of education
Education on the ALL-FX Code of conduct 
New executive officer training
New administrator training
Basic training on laws WBT (Web-based Training)
Training for personnel in charge of promotion
Training on information security WBT
Training on personal information protection WBTTraining to explain details of each code of conduct using specific cases (individual and group education)
Group training on corporate law and corporate governance, etc.Training on overall risk management related to managementTraining on basic legal knowledge (4 areas) utilizing the InternetTraining for key person to deliver new system and training in divisions and affiliates
Basic training related to information security utilizing the Internet
Training utilizing the Internet on issues to be aware of regarding Personal Information Protection Law Data and InformationLabor Environment and Social Benefit
Accounting/Communication with StakeholdersData and InformationProduct Safety Management System/
IMS* Certified Sites
>>>Labor environment and social benefit accounting 
>>>Volunteer activities in on-the-job hours
>>>Communication with stakeholders>>>Product safety management system (Fujifilm) 
>>>Product safety management system (Fuji Xerox)
>>>IMS certified sites (Fujifilm and its affiliates)
79 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 78 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Product safety management system (Fujifilm) Product safety management system (Fuji Xerox)
IMS certified sites (Fujifilm and its affiliates: 6,600 people)
CompanyCertified year
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Co., Ltd. IMS*2FUJIFILM Opto Materials Co., Ltd. EMS+QMS — IMS*1FUJIFILM Techno Service Co., Ltd. EMS IMS*1
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd. — —— — IMS*2FUJIFILM BUSINESS SUPPLY CO., LTD. EMS IMS*1FUJIFILM Graphic Systems Co., Ltd. EMS IMS*1FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd. EMS IMS*1FUJIFILM IMAGING Co., Ltd. EMS EMS+QMS IMS*1FUJIFILM Healthcare Laboratory Co., Ltd. — —— — IMS*1FUJIFILM Computer System Co., Ltd. EMS EMS+QMS IMS*1FUJIFILM Corporation EMS EMS+QMS IMS*1FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation — —— IMS*1
Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →
Continued →
Continued →Continued →
Continued →
Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued → Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →
Continued →
Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →
Continued →Continued →Continued →Continued →
Continued →Continued →Continued →
Continued → (EMS+QMS)  Continued → Continued → Continued →Continued →PL-related issue arises
A PL-related issue is defined as a case when PL has not been incurred 
but there is a possibility that a liability may be incurred.
Report preparation
The division receiving PL information prepares a PL report and notifies the relevant division and the CP & RM.
Consideration of response
Countermeasures, response
Report to supervising authority and public announcement if requiredImplementation of responseIf companywide response is required If companywide response is not required
Total Risk Management Committee
Sub-committee for dealing with major product-related
complaints (including product liability)
Responsible Divisions
Marketing/Quality Assurance/Technical/Production
● Acquisition of information, customer response
● Eliminate all present risk
● Safety measures for future products● Accumulation and establishment of information 
for improving safetyPL Committee
● Acquisition and analysis of PL information● Implementation and management of response● Internal audit for product safety
Responsible Divisions
Marketing/Quality Assurance/Technical/Production
● Acquisition of information, customer response● Eliminate all present risk● Safety measures for future products
● Accumulation and establishment of information 
for improving safetyPL-related issue arises
A PL-related issue is defined as a case when PL has not been incurred
but there is a possibility that a liability may be incurred.
Report to PL Web
Contact SQEC (Safety & Quality Escalation Center), open 24 hours a day,
7 days a week, 365 days a year through the PL Web.
Consideration of response
Countermeasures, response
Report to supervising authority and public announcement if requiredImplementation of responseIf companywide response is required If companywide response is not required
Accident Task Team ➞ Risk and Ethics Committee
Serious product accidents and compliance related issues
Responsible Division
Division responsible for product supply/
Environment & product safety/Quality control/Head office
● Collecting accident information and quick response to 
customers (24 hours a day, 365 days a year system)
● Identifying cause of accidents
● Assessment of maximum risk
● Determination of response
● Determination of preventive measures for occurrence 
and recurrenceCross-functional team meeting/
emergency area meeting
Accidents other than serious product accidents
and compliance related issue
Responsible Division
Division responsible for product supply/
Environment & product safety/Quality control/
Production/Technology/Customer service
● Collecting accident information and quick response 
to customers (24 hours a day, 365 days a year system)
● Identifying cause of accidents
● Assessment of maximum risk
● According to the result of assessment, incident is 
escalated from CFT meeting to emergency area meeting
● Determination of response● Determination of preventive measures for 
occurrence and recurrence* IMS: Integrated Management System which incorporates several management systems such as EMS (Environmental
Management System), QMS (Quality Management System), OHSMS (Occupational Health & Safety Management
System), ISMS (Information Security Management System) and so on.
URL
Fujifilm and its affiliate sites that have acquired EMS
http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/activities/iso/index.html (in Japanese)
Fujifilm and its affiliate sites that have acquired QMS
http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/activities/iso/iso9001.html (in Japanese)
Fuji Xerox and its affiliate sites that have acquired EMS
http://www.fujixerox.com/eng/company/ecology/internal/iso14001/index.htmlThe expenses required for activities to improve the labor environment and the
amount spent for social contributions are calculated and classified by stake-holder group. For employees, the Group emphasized providing training anddeveloping a workplace in which they can work comfortably by focusing onsafety, benefits packages and other factors. Expenses for promoting cultureand the arts in society include the expense of FUJIFILM SQUARE, a facility forpreserving and disseminating the culture of photography. Contributions to inter-national society included joint sponsoring the Tokyo International Film Festivaland making a donation to the International Chemistry Olympiad.
Period covered
Fiscal year 2007 (April 1, 2007 to March 31, 2008)Range of information sources*The 61 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group *(FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm and 19
affiliates, and Fuji Xerox and 39 affiliates)
*One company was newly added in fiscal 2007.
Basic itemsObjectives of labor environment and social benefit accountingThese accounts are prepared to allow the Fujifilm Group to keep up with its activities forimproving the working environment of its employees and the amounts spent for socialcontributions by preparing data on these activities from an economic perspective.Accounting method
The expenditures (including investments) for the year have been added up to arrive at thefigures shown. These figures do not include depreciation. Figures for personnel trainingand social contributions may overlap with figures in the Environmental Account as well.Employees
Employees play a central role in the promotion of Fujifilm’s CSR activities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Consulting centers of the Personnel Department
and personnel interviews; Compliance advisory functions; Sexual Harassment Hotline;
Labor union and regular company meetings; Stakeholder Dialogue; Awareness surveysrelated to making work more satisfying
Suppliers
Our suppliers are important partners who assist us in continuing to offer prod-ucts that reflect proper regard for safety and the natural environment. 
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Procurement Division (For responding to inquiries);
FUJIFILM Business Expert (For responding to inquiries); Ecology and Quality
Management Division (For responding to inquiries); Information meetings for suppliers(green procurement, management of chemical content); Periodic discussion meetingswith our suppliers; Operation of a materials procurement website
Community (Regional societies)
We believe that symbiosis with the community and the preservation of the natu-ral environment are key elements of our CSR as a corporation, especially atthose places of business for production operation. We, therefore, promotecommunication with the community. 
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Consulting centers at each of our factories and
offices (For responding to inquiries); Meetings related to environmental policy; Factory
visits; Volunteer activities in the local community; Lectures and information meetings forcommunity members; Periodic discussions with local governments (municipal govern-ments and mayors, leaders of local government organizations, and others)
Shareholders/Investors
We are constantly aware of the need to promote a proper understanding of theCompany’s value, and work to provide timely disclosure of investor relations(IR) information in Japan and overseas. 
Methods for sustaining dialogue: IR Office (For responding to inquiries); Information
meetings for investors and visits with investors; Shareholder meetings; IR information
section on the company website
Transaction partners
As we propose new creations worthy of merit, our transaction partners are vital,and we work with them and support them in the development of new products.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Sales companies and marketing/sales divisions
(For responding to inquiries); Periodic discussions with our transaction partners; Seeking
advice in the creation of new products and materials and participating in joint develop-ment activities; Participation in exhibitions, events, and academic meetings
NGOs, NPOs
We provide continuing support for NGOs and NPOs that engage in educationaland enlightenment activities related to the natural environment.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Corporate General Administration Division (For
responding to inquiries); CSR Division (For responding to inquiries); Secretariat of the
Public Trust Fujifilm Green Fund; Stakeholder Dialogue
Customers
Reflecting the opinions and requests of customers in our products, services, and cor-
porate activities is one of the most important issues for a manufacturing company.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Customers Communication Center (For responding
to inquiries); FUJIFILM SQUARE (Showroom); Technical Support Centers; Service
Centers; Usability evaluations, advice on production development, preparation of userreports, and other activities; Photo contests, photo exhibitions, photography classes;Events, exhibitions and seminars
Future generations
We believe that one of our most vital social responsibilities is to conduct educa-tional activities for future generations who will be responsible for the future.We, therefore, are placing special emphasis on educational support activities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Providing instructors to conduct school courses
and participating in events held in schools; Sponsoring factory visits as part of extracur-
ricular and other activities; Working with NGOs in environmental education activities
Industrial associations, government organizations and business partners
We are actively communicating and cooperating with industry groups to respond
to laws and ordinances such as the RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation. 
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Participation in the creation of industry guidelines;
Statement of public comments through industrial associations; Pink Ribbon Campaign,
joint research with hospitals and universities, and establishment of sponsored lecturesLabor environment and social benefit accounting
Breakdown of labor environment and 
social benefit accounting
Volunteer activities in on-the-job hoursCommunication with stakeholders
1,462 1,149
Communities 
(local society 
and government)
International
communityFuture generationsCustomersEmployeesStakeholder GoalCost totals
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Health and safety
Personnel trainingProtect diversity
Develop a workplace in which 
employees can work comfortably
Ensure appropriate customer 
response and safety
Education for future generations
Harmony with the local community
Promote culture and the arts 
in society (in Japan)
Consideration for the international 
community and international cultures
Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs
Consideration for productsNGOs and NPOsSuppliersTotal2,237 1,901
180 157
2,012 1,764
652 780
10 85
157 183
1,276 807
51 38
10 52
33 44
8,080 6,960(¥ million)
(¥ million)
3,814 hours 4,143 hoursFiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Hours spent on volunteer activities
Volunteer cost* 12 11
* Calculated based on the hours spent on volunteer activities, such as area clean-up, in on-the-job hours, the
salary equivalent to that of those hours, and cost of the activities.*1 IMS: Integrated Management System unifying EMS (Environmental Management System) and QMS (Quality Management System)
*2IMS: Integrated Management System unifying EMS (Environmental Management System), QMS (Quality Management System) and OHSMS (Occupational Health & Safety Management System) Data and Information Personnel and Labor (Fujifilm) Data and Information Communication with Customers
>>>Composition of the Fujifilm workforce
>>>Status of regular employees 
>>>Recruitment 
>>>Employment 
>>>Number of employees taking leaves of absence
>>>Labor accident ratio and labor accident severity>>>Composition of labor union membership 
>>>Revisions to systems conducted according to 
agreements between the labor union and the company 
>>>Respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination
>>>Systems for work-life balance>>>System for responding to customers 
>>>Universal design 
>>>ECO LEAF Environmental Label
81 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 80 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008System for responding to customers (Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)
Reports FeedbackInteractive
Communication
Number of customer inquiries:
About 400,000
inquiries a yearLetters, telephone calls,
e-mails, company visits
and in retail outletsThe Customers Communication Center organizes information such 
as comments and inquiries from customers into a database
Inquiries
Requests
Proposals
RemarksConsideration by
related divisionsTop management
Division heads
Marketing and
sales
Design
R&DBack to “Customers’ Opinions”Improvements to products
and services
Adoption of new products
and new servicesCustomers’ 
opinionsReflection of customers’ opinion Consultation facilityISO 10002 (International Standard for Complaints Handling Management Systems)
Consideration
Customers Communication Center
Technical Support Center
Service Station
Domestic marketing divisions/Domestic sales companiesAbout30 personnel
About100 personnel
7 service centers in Japan/about 170 personnel
System for responding to customers (Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates)
Phone/e-mailPerson in charge
(sales/CE/SE)Customers
VOCInternal research division/
research firms
Various market researchersMail/e-mail
CS surveys General
Customer
Information Center
(general contact)Maintenance
Telephone Center
(machine
maintenance)Delivery
Customer
Service Center
(consumables)Billing
Customer
Administration Center
(invoices,
payment, etc.)1. Comparison to competitors’ CS surveys
2. User CS surveysMacroeconomic market trend surveys VOC (Voice of Customer)
Comprehensive system for
collecting information from customers
The Design Center, which is in charge of product design instituted Usability
Evaluation in 2001 and is working to create universal product designs that areuser-friendly for everyone. Usability Evaluation differs from usual monitoringsurveys in that it solicits evaluations from a range of users during the designand development stages. Based on the analysis of these evaluations, users’opinions are reflected in new product design. Customer opinions that rarelyreach consultation facilities, such as those that are not clearly recognized bycustomers, complaints that a product just seems difficult to use, and com-ments that “something just doesn’t seem right” are gathered together andmeticulously processed in an attempt to increase customer satisfaction. In the future, we will continue to increase opportunities for hearing from cus-tomers and actively incorporate Usability Evaluation into the product develop-ment process to reflect their opinions in our products.Universal design
Fujifilm and its affiliates aim for higher environmental quality in all their prod-ucts. To inform customers correctly about the environmental qualities of ourproducts, Fujifilm has obtained certification to use the ECO LEAF EnvironmentalLabel*
1in Japan on QuickSnap, digital cameras, etc. and we also provide
detailed data on our website.ECO LEAF Environmental Label
URL
Products that acquired ECO LEAF Environmental Label (Fujifilm)
http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/products/selec-
tion003 (in Japanese)
Products that acquired ECO LEAF Environmental Label (Fuji Xerox)
http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/eco/label (in Japanese)Composition of the Fujifilm workforce
Regular
employees
Non-regular
employees8,084Breakdown
General employees: 6,515 (Male: 5,223, Female: 1,292)Managerial personnel: 1,569 (Male: 1,557, Female: 12)
Breakdown
Temporary employees: 664, Part-timers: 26 Employees re-employed after retirement: 76 Other (Contract employees, etc.): 76
842
Revisions to systems conducted according to agreements
between the labor union and the company
Systems for work-life balanceFiscal 2005Fiscal year Item
• Implementation of system for supervising workers with high-level skills
• Improvement of systems for childcare and nursing care• Revisions to employee rental housing system
Fiscal 2006• Revisions to re-employment systems• Clarification of transfer and external assignment regulations• Revisions to travel expense regulations
Fiscal 2007• Revisions to the support system for encouraging lifestyles conducive to 
both work and family life
• Revisions to policy on providing condolence money6,348Union members Proportion of union membership Average age of union members
78.5% * 40.8
Status of regular employees
Average ageAverage length of
employment (Years)Average number
of dependentsUtilization of
paid leave*Turnover rate*
42.16Male: 18.8
Female: 20.11.4 72% 4.1%
The Fujifilm Group respects basic human rights and does not improperly violate the
human rights of its employees. We do not discriminate on the basis of gender, age,nationality, ethnic origin, beliefs, religion, social position, physical condition, or othercharacteristics and respect the privacy of our employees. To prevent sexual harass-ment, we have continuously implemented activities to raise awareness and dissemi-nate information within the company, including the revision and distribution of sexualharassment prevention guidelines based on the revised Equal Employment OpportunityLaw, that took effect in 2007, to all employees of Fujifilm and its affiliates. We alsodefined the prohibition of power harassment in our company regulations.
In addition, we have provided a telephone consultation service (the sexual harass-ment hotline) where arrangements have been made for external specialized coun-selors to receive requests for consultation from employees.  While respecting theprivacy of individuals receiving consultation, we work toward the resolution ofthese issues. Other related activities include periodic training sessions for person-nel in managerial positions in Fujifilm and its affiliates on the subjects of respectfor human rights and the elimination of discrimination.
●All of these systems provide for more generous leave than is required by law.
●Stock Leave is a system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave time up to
60 days. Accumulated leave days may be used for the treatment of personal healthproblems, rehabilitation, childcare, nursing care and volunteer activities.Respect for human rights and elimination 
of discriminationAs of March 31, 2008 Composition of labor union membership As of March 31, 2008
As of March 31, 2008
As of March 31, 2008
* Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period between October 16, 2006 and
September 30, 2007. 
* Turnover rate: Numerator: Attrition + Retirement + Transfer + New Start for Senior Employees program
(excluding voluntary retirement due to structural reform)
Denominator: Annual average number of employees at Fujifilm (non-consolidated)* Ratio to the number of regular employees (8,084)
Recruitment
New graduate
recruitment
(Fiscal 2008)*
Mid-career
recruitment*193Technical positions: Male 123, Female 18
Administrative positions: Male 35, Female 8
93 Male: 72, Female: 21
* As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the beginning of April, the num-
ber in the chart above represents new graduate recruitment at the beginning of April 2008. 
*Number of mid-career recruitments represents those from April 2007 to March 2008.
*The number of employees who began a leave of absence during the relevant fiscal year.Employment
Employment of persons
with disabilities
Reemployment1.77%Fiscal 2005
371.77%
411.89%
38Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Number of employees taking leaves of absence*
Leave of absence for
nursing care
Leave of absence for childcare 2Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
391
320
44
Leave of absence for volunteer work000
Labor accident ratio and labor accident severity
Labor Accident Ratio*1
Labor Accident Severity*20.07Fiscal 2005
0.000.22
0.030.090.02Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
1,000,000Gross number of hours workedNumber of labor accident victims
*2 Labor Accident Severity 1,000Gross number of hours workedNumber of workdays lost *1 Labor Accident Ratio =
=Giving birth,
Childcare
Nursing care1. Systems catering for pre- and post-birth requirements
2. Leave of absence for childcare3. Use of stock leave for childcare4. Systems for employment while raising children5. Leave of absence for taking care of sick children6. Shortened working hours7. Use of stock leave for fertility treatment8. Leave of absence for fertility treatment9. Exemption from extended working hours and working on holidays
1. Leave of absence for caring for a family member
2. Use of stock leave for caring for a family member3. Systems for employment while caring for a family member
1. Leave of absence for volunteer work/Use of stock leave for volunteer work
2. Use of stock leave for self-development3. Use of long-service holidays
Other*1 Environmental Labeling: Environmental labeling activities are intended to com-
municate accurate information on the environmentally friendly aspects of
products through the labeling of products and packaging, provision of techni-cal reports, and sponsorship of advertisements. Under ISO (InternationalStandard Organization for Standardization) provisions, environmental labelingis divided into the following three types:Type1: Certification by third parties (ISO 14024); Type 2: Self-declared envi-ronmental claims (ISO 14021); and Type 3: Environmental labeling program.
ECO LEAF Environmental LabelData and InformationMaterial Procurement
(Fujifilm and its affiliates)Data and Information Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)
>>>Basic Purchasing Policy
>>>Purchasing Policy 
>>>Main items purchased
>>>Green Procurement Standards for Suppliers
>>>Green Procurement Standards for Products>>>Composition of the Fuji Xerox workforce
>>>Status of regular employees 
>>>Recruitment
>>>Employment
>>>Number of employees taking leave of absence
>>>Labor accident ratio and labor accident severity
83 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 82 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008>>>Composition of the labor union membership 
>>>Revisions to systems conducted according to agreements 
between the labor union and the company
>>>Respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination
>>>Systems for work-life balance
Composition of the Fuji Xerox workforce
Regular
employees
Non-regular
employees11,364Breakdown
General employees: 8,514 (Male: 7,207, Female: 1,307)Managerial personnel: 2,607 (Male: 2,569, Female: 38)Executive officers, contract employees, secondment employees: 243
Breakdown
Temporary employees: 231, Part-timers: 47, Employees reemployed after retirement: 246, Other (Contract employees, etc.): 14
538 Revisions to systems conducted according to agreements
between the labor union and the company
Fiscal 2004Fiscal year Item
• Revisions to regulation on overseas assignments
• Revisions to severance benefit and pension system
Fiscal 2005• Implementation of transfer system• Revision to secondment system
Fiscal 2006• Revisions to human resource systems• Implementation of SLP*
Fiscal 2007 • Implementation of comprehensive secondment system8,453Union members Proportion of union membership Average age of union members
74.30%* 41.9
Status of regular employees
Average ageAverage length of
employment (Years)Average number of
dependentsUtilization of
paid leave*Turnover rate*
44.1Male: 20.04
Female: 14.481.4 62% 4.31%As of March 31, 2008 Composition of labor union membership As of March 31, 2008
As of March 31, 2008
As of March 31, 2008
* Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period between April 1, 2007 and March 31, 2008. 
* Turnover rate: Numerator: Attrition + Fixed-age retirement + Transfer + New Start for Senior Employees program
(excluding employees transferred to sales companies based on new sales strategies in October 2007).
Denominator: Annual average number of employees at Fuji Xerox (non-consolidated) +
Average number of seconded employees.* Ratio compared to the number of regular employees (11,364)
* Second Life Program
Recruitment
New graduate
recruitment
(Fiscal 2008)*
Mid-career
recruitment229Technical positions: Male 130, Female 22
Administrative positions: Male 42, Female 26
40 Male: 39, Female: 1
* As the number of new graduate recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the beginning of April, the number in the
chart above represents new graduate recruitment at the beginning of April 2008. Also the total includes 9 employ-
ees (6 males, 3 females) who are graduates of high-school, college of technology or specialized training college.
* The reemployment represents the number of employees who were reemployed in each year out of a total of 244
reemployments as of March 31, 2008.
* Female: 44, Male: 5. Employment
Employment of persons 
with disabilities
Reemployment1.80%
261.76%
751.96%
143Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Number of employees taking leave of absence
Leave of absence for 
nursing care
Leave of absence 
for childcareFiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Leave of absence for volunteer work6
572
495
49*
201
Labor accident ratio and labor accident severity
Labor Accident Ratio*1
Labor Accident Severity*2Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
1,000,000Gross number of hours workedNumber of labor accident victims
*2 Labor Accident Severity 1,000Gross number of hours workedNumber of workdays lost *1 Labor Accident Ratio =
=0.35
0.000.490.000.180.00Giving birth,
Childcare
Nursing care1. Leave of absence for childcare
2. Reemployment system for employees who left company for childcare3. 
Accumulated unused paid leave for family health care (Accumulated paid leave)
4. Shortened working hours for childcare 
(until third grade of elementary school)
5. Exemption from overtime work (in principle)
(until sixth grade of elementary school)
6. Limited late-night work (until sixth grade of elementary school)
1. Leave of absence for caring for a family member
2. Shortened working hours for caring for a family member3. One-day nursing care leave4. Accumulated unused paid leave for caring for a family member
1. Flextime working hours
2. Refresh holidays
3. Social Service system4. Accumulated unused paid leave for volunteer activities5. Leave of absence for education
6. Senior theme leave
7. Flexible work schedules8. Double job program
OtherMain items purchased
Green Procurement Standards for Suppliers
*1 EcoStage: An environment evaluation and support system to assist small and medium-sized companies in
creating and operating environmental management systems that are less burdensome than the ISO sys-
tems but still ensure transparency.
*2EcoAction 21: This system enables users to implement, operate, and maintain environmental initiatives effec-
tively and efficiently, set objectives related to the environment, take action, summarize the results, evaluatethem, and prepare reports on these activities. This system was created as a certification and registrationframework based on the EcoAction Guidelines established by the Ministry of the Environment and offers anenvironmental system that is easy for small and medium-sized companies, schools, and others to use.
*3KES: An environmental management system recommended by The Miyako Agenda 21 Forum.
*412 items: (1) corporate philosophy and policy relating to environmental preservation, (2) goals for environ-
mental preservation, (3) implementation plan, (4) organization for promoting environmental preservation,(5) conduct reviews of compliance with legal regulations, (6) prevent atmospheric pollution, (7) preventwater pollution, (8) system for management of chemical content, (9) reduce waste, (10) conserve energy,(11) crisis management systems, and (12) related education and training programs.
*5Prohibited Chemical Content: Chemical substances for which manufacture, use, import, and other actions
are prohibited.
*6Chemical Content Subject to Reduction: Chemical content that will be reduced as a result of trends in legal
regulations and Fujifilm policies.
*7Chemical Content that Must Be Measured: Chemical content that must be measured as provided for in
Fujifilm’s Basic Regulations for Design for Environment.
Main Items Purchased
Raw Materials
and EnergyPackaging MaterialsEquipment,
Machinery, othersParts for
Digital Cameras, others
Silver, aluminum (ingots 
and sheets), pulp, base film,base paper, LDPE/HDPE, PET,PTA, MEG, TAC, gelatin forphoto use, magnetic iron oxide, resin, 
plastic powder, 
chemicals (ultraviolet absorbent, plasticizer, solvent, specialchemicals, etc.), heavy oil,natural gas, etc. Cardboard cartons, boxes, laminated packing (bags and sheets), rolls, wrapping film, etc.Manufacturing equipment, electric equipment, environmental air conditioning, processing facilities, equipment for research experiments, equipment construction, office and work consumables, fixtures and fittings, products and components for protecting manufacturing equipment, etc.ICs, LSIs, CCDs, connectors,circuit boards, optical lenses, resin and molds, steel, etc.
Silver
Photo gelatinCardboard cartons
BoxesManufacturing equipment Optical lenses
Inspection equipmentURL Relationships with Business Partners (Fuji Xerox)
http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/eng/sr/stakeholder/customer/supply.html* Fuji Xerox’s material procurement information is released on the following website.
Systems for work-life balanceFuji Xerox is a member of The Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo
(Federation in which 120 companies with head offices in Tokyo participate).Fuji Xerox served as chair of the organization in 2004 and has been working onenlightenment activities, such as inviting submissions for a human rights slo-gan, distribution of an in-house journal, group education for new recruits withthe objective of respect for human rights in companies, prohibition of discrimi-nation and harassment, while exchanging information and knowledge with othermember companies.
●All of these systems provide for more generous leave than is required by law.
●Accumulated paid leave is a system enabling employees to accumulate
unused leave up to 60 days. Accumulated leave may be used for health care,
childcare, nursing care and for volunteer activities.Respect for human rights and elimination 
of discrimination1. Rational selection standards
We will select vendors based upon rational and clear standards, such as qual-ity, price, delivery assurance and operating stability, so as to purchase supe-rior goods and services from the most competitive suppliers. Decisions onpurchasing are made by the Purchasing Division, which is independent fromother divisions.2. Openness and fairnessWe will impartially provide all Japanese and overseas vendors with opportuni-ties to sell us their products and services. In addition, we will vigorouslystrive to purchase not only from vendors with past transactions, but fromnewcomers as well.3. Observance of laws, conservation of natural resources and protec-tion of the environment
In conducting our purchasing activities, we will seek to fulfill our role as a good
corporate citizen by observing all related laws and regulations and by takinginto consideration such factors as conservation of natural resources and theprotection of the environment.We hope your understanding of our purchasing policies, and procedures, aselaborated here, will contribute to establishing and furthering a beneficial part-nership based on mutual trust.Basic Purchasing Policy
1. Our criteria for initiating business with a newcomer or to conduct a specific
transaction will be based on how well rational and clear standards are metin terms of product quality, price, reliability, and the capability to providestable supply.
2. As a rule, we will compare offers from several vendors simultaneously to
promote a healthy, competitive environment and engage in the fair selec-tion of our suppliers.
3. We will strive to purchase from as wide a variety of sources as possible, in
order to avoid excessive reliance on a single vendor for procurements, whilealso preventing a single vendor from becoming excessively dependent on usfor their business.
4. We will actively seek to create opportunities for newcomers by periodically
reviewing vendors with whom we transact on a continual basis.
5. We will request offers to be made only from prospective vendors. In the
event that a competitive bidding takes place or we select a vendor aftercomparing requested offers, those vendors not qualifying will have theopportunity to seek our justification, which we will provide within limits.
6. As a rule, we will conduct our purchasing activities in accordance with the
written terms of a contract. Continual transactions will be based by mutu-ally agreeing to the terms set in a basic contract.
7. We will not transact with vendors that aim to sell our products and/or
services directly.
8. We will preserve confidentiality of any information related to a particular
vendor obtained in the course of transacting with the firm.
9. We will not engage in any transactions that lead to the violation of a third
party’s intellectual property rights.
10. Our purchasing officers will not maintain any relationships based on per-
sonal interests with existing or prospective vendors.1. Hold ISO 14001 certification or expect to obtain it within three years, or,
hold EcoStage*
1, EcoAction 21*2, or KES *3, or are scheduled to obtain one
of these certifications within one year.
2. For suppliers that do not meet standard 1. above: Must be compliant
with environmental-related regulations; do not handle any of the chemi-cal substances specified by Fujifilm; and satisfy 70% or more of the 12items*
4Fujifilm has specified related to environmental preservation and
chemical content.
Green Procurement Standards for Products
1.Do not contain chemical substances specified in Prohibited Chemical Content *5.
2. Measure and manage Chemical Content Subject to Reduction *6and
Chemical Content that Must Be Measured *7.
3. Provide accurate information on the management of the receipt of raw
materials and parts, processes, and shipments, in line with the Guidelinesfor Management of Chemical Content.Purchasing PolicyData and Information Environmental Accounting Data and InformationPaper and Paper Material Procurement/
Classifications of Social Contribution Activities
>>>Overview of fiscal 2007
>>>Environmental accounting for fiscal 2007
>>>Customer benefits>>>Paper and paper material procurement
>>>Classifications of social contribution activities
85 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 84 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008From the perspectives of forest conservation and environmental management,
Fujifilm established a Pulp Procurement Standard in March 2007. This standardstipulates provisions concerning pulp and pulp raw materials processed intoproducts in Fujifilm’s factories and laboratories, while also advocating sustain-able forest management and stipulating that procurement should be conductedfrom suppliers that take the environment, health and safety seriously. Our pro-curement policy is to make purchases after confirming Forest Certification inaddition to quality and cost. In regard to the forests and lands that are in thePaper and paper material procurement
process of acquiring certification, we also conduct progress management asnecessary.In December 2004, Fuji Xerox established the Paper Procurement RulesConcerning the Environment, Health and Safety with regard to paper procuredinside and outside Japan by Fuji Xerox and its affiliates. In addition to compli-ance with laws and regulations, these rules require that pulp used as raw mate-rial is provided from sustainably managed forests and that the source of paperused for recycled pulp is clearly stated.
Classifications of social contribution activities
Education and
trainingCulture, arts and
sports/healthPreservation of
natural environmentSocial contribution
through
core businessesCommunication
partnership
with NPO, NGP
and
local communitiesSocial welfare and
donation activitiesEmployees
voluntary
activitiesCompany, organization Co-sponsorship, support, donation, etc.
Fujifilm Co-sponsorship of Kaiyo Academy
Support of Mirai (Future) Green Map
Support of the Green Lanes Environmental DiariesSupport of Foxfire in JapanFujifilm Green FundPhotography experiment classes
Support of photographers and photography exhibitions/
charity photography exhibitions
Establishment of endowed chair in “Integrated Image
Informatics” at the University of Tokyo Hospital
Establishment of endowed chair in “Biorecognition
Molecular Engineering” at the University of Tokyo
Maintenance of “Haruki Michi” Walkway
Support for Disaster Relief Volunteer Promotion Committee
China tree-planting volunteer program
ECO Club
Donations to Atomic Bomb Survivors Hospitals 
in Hiroshima and Nagasaki
Setsutaro Kobayashi Memorial Fund
Funding for education and training support by affiliates in Asia
Hasu Club
Operation of the Aspen Institute JapanSupport for Junior Achievement
Support of Kids’ ISO Program
Narita Satoyama Conservation Group
Training course for nature conservation educators
Joho-Juku
Support for preparing Large Font Textbooks
Art by Xerox
Save the Wooded Area of Tsukahara Committee
Nonprofit Corporation “e-Nakama”
Support for Special Olympics
Sale of “Palette Confectionery” Products within Company
Campaigns for social contribution and environmental preservation
Print Collection
Support for Minami-Aso Ehon-No-Kuni Picture Book Project
Acorn SquareFujifilm
FujifilmFujifilmFujifilmFujifilm
Fujifilm
Fujifilm
Fujifilm
Fujifilm
Fujifilm/Fuji Xerox
Fujifilm Labor Union
Fujifilm Labor Union
Fujifilm Labor Union
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji XeroxFuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox
FUJIFILM Kyushu
Suzuka Fuji XeroxURL
Fujifilm: http://www.fujifilm.com/about/profile/overview/social_contribution
Fuji Xerox: http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/eng/sr/stakeholder/community/index.html
Basic items
Objectives of environmental accounting
1. To provide accurate quantitative information on volumes and economic effects to interested parties inside and
outside the Group
2. To provide numerical environment-related information useful for decision making by management and supervi-
sors at the working level
Accounting method
Based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition)” published by the Ministry of Environment in Japan.
1. Depreciation is calculated in principle according to the straight-line method over a three-year period.
2. When costs include expenditures for both environmental and non-environmental purposes, the portion relating
to non-environmental purposes has been excluded.
3. Economic impact within the Group: The difference in value terms from the previous year in fines for polluting
and usage of energy, raw materials, water, and other resources is accounted for, as well as the real impact ofrecovery, recycling, and other measures in value terms for the year in question.
4. Economic impact outside the Group: The difference in value terms from the previous year has been shown for
SOx, VOCs, and CO
2. For recycling, the anticipated benefit in value terms has been shown for the year in ques-
tion. To compute the benefit for customers, the economic benefit for the year in question has been calculatedassuming that customers are using the new, environmentally friendly product.*1 SOx reductions: ¥38,522 ⁄ ton
Bidding price of SO 2emissions credits offered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in March
2008 (US$380.01 ⁄ ton).
*2 VOC reductions: ¥350,000 ⁄ ton
From the “Economics Evaluation Report on Countermeasures for Harmful Atmospheric Pollutants” issuedby Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, February 2004.
*3CO
2reductions: ¥3,431 ⁄ ton
Trading price of EU emissions credit 2008 futures ( €22.91 ⁄ ton) at the end of March 2008.
*4Landfill costs for the waste product (¥100 ⁄ kg).
*5 Water resource consumption reduction: ¥200 ⁄ ton for clean water supply, ¥200 ⁄ ton for sewage water times
the reductions amount.Environmental accounting for fiscal 2007
Environmental Conservation Costs
Capital investment Expenses
(1) Environmental damage prevention1. Expenses incurred within the business site
(2) Global environmental protection
(3) Resource recycling
2. Upstream/downstream costs
Recovery from the market
3. Cost of management activities
4. Research and development costs
5. Costs for social programs
6. Costs for handling environmental 
damage/Pollution levies
Total(Fiscal Year) (Fiscal Year)
8,2392006 2007 2006 2007 2007 2006 2007 2006
5,625
2,408
206
344
110
10,23716,672
6,129
5,276
5,267
12,009
3108,298
5,215
2,751
332
37
063
10,35216715,497
6,722
4,768
4,007
10,876
10,36989339137 2,1681,4813,351
2,8521,8579443,24356113,139-62-2
72147
58,074 31,43311,040 11,320
97236
60,391Environmental Conservation Effectiveness
9,590 9,993Economic impact inside the Group Economic impact outside the Group
Reduction of pollution levy
Energy conservation
Reduction of raw materials and resources used
Water resource consumption reduction*5
Recovery and recycling
SilverPolymeric materialsAluminum materials
Other recycling
QuickSnap recovery
Recovery of parts from used equipment-2
-2,111
17,740
522
1,711
37,489 92,768 47,15210,733
1,333 20,057 37,652 1,787 20,442 82,49195,900 tons 99,900 tons
Film for LCDsCustomer benefits are
shown in the table above——
40,000 tons-147 134
−54,000 tons 39,000 tons56 2
159 tons 5 tons-219 tons -121 tonsReduction in SOx emissions*1
Reduction in volume of SOx emissions
Reduction in volume of NOx emissions
Reduction in VOC emissions*2
Reduction in volume of VOC emissions
Reduction in CO 2 emissions
Reduction in volume of CO 2 emissions*3
Reduction of waste materials through
reuse and recycling*4
Reduced volume
Reuse of aluminum materials
Reduction in volume of CO 2 emissions*311 1
28 tons 273 tons1. High-density magnetic memory materials
2. Pre-sensitized aluminum plates not using
plate-making film
3. Film for LCDs
4. Office printersTotal 2,676
36,08228,80014,93382,4913,054
13,57918,159
2,860
37,652ProductAmount
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
(¥ million)Related page
Page 13: Reducing environmental burden through technological innovation
Page 16: Response to Climate Change
For fiscal 2007, due to energy conservation efforts, we were able to decrease
CO2emissions and limit energy consumption to a slight increase. Along with
this result, there was a positive economic impact outside the company in termsof global environmental conservation.In addition, as a result of proceeding with the shift to natural gas, we were ableto substantially cut SOx emissions. As production of QuickSnap fell, the effectof recovering these products from the market declined. Growth in customerbenefits contributed significantly to a substantial increase in the economicimpact outside the company compared to fiscal 2006.
Period of coverage
April 1, 2007 to March 31, 2008Scope of accounting for environmental accounting65 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm and21 affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 41 affiliates)Amounts were calculated comparing the usage of old products to new prod-ucts purchased by customers. Customer benefits rose with the substantialincrease in sales volume of PS plates that do not require plate-making filmand film for LCDs.Overview of fiscal 2007 Customer benefits
(¥ million)Data and Information Environmental Aspects Data and Information Environmental Aspects
>>>Breakdown of energy consumption (Consolidated)
>>>Energy consumption (Six main domestic chemical factories) 
>>>CO2emissions (Six main domestic chemical factories)
>>>Breakdown of energy consumption (Consolidated)
>>>Amount of CO 2reductions and reduction rates through 
transportation efficiency improvements (Domestic distribution)>>>NOx and PM emissions (Domestic distribution)
>>>Reduction ratio of packing materials for export (Cumulative total) 
>>>Total CO 2emissions in domestic logistics
>>>Natural resources input (Consolidated)
>>>Water input (Consolidated)>>>The scope of applicable chemical substances (Fujifilm) 
>>>Classification of chemical substances and standards for classification (Fujifilm) 
>>>Safety classification of chemical substances (Fuji Xerox)
87 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 86 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008The scope of applicable chemical substances (Fujifilm) 
Classification of chemical substances and standards for classification (Fujifilm)
Safety classification of chemical substances (Fuji Xerox)Chemical substances 
and mixtures(About 7 ,500 kinds of chemical substances)
Green procurement standard1. The raw chemical materials sold and offered by Fujifilm Group companies as Fujifilm products
2. Chemical products3. Solvent and raw material intermediates used for the production method developed by Fujifilm Group companies4. Chemical substances used for the running, operation, and maintenance of the production facilities 
(for processing and testing a product, for treating wastewater and exhaust gas, and for ion-exchange water)
5. Chemical substances for research and development and inspection
A. Chemical substances included in machinery, equipment, and their parts
B. Chemical substances included in packing, crating materials, and functional materials
Chemical materials in A and B shall receive special management, such as reduction or discontinuation of the usage of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, 
brominated flame retardants (BFRs) like polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE), and polyvinyl c hloride (PVC)
Classification
C0 ●
—
—
—
——
—
—Standards for classificationManagement agenda
C1
C2
C3
C4
SProhibitionClosed system or
use limitationManagement based
on risk assessmentGeneral control
(in accordance with legal
regulations and FMSDS)
1. Chemical substances prohibited by law
2. Chemical substances that Fujifilm does not handle based on its policies 
(e.g., mercury compounds, cadmium compounds, etc.)
1. Chemical substances of which we have discontinued use or reduced emissions based on 
Fujifilm policies (e.g., hexavalent chromium, formaldehyde, dichloromethane, etc.)
1. Chemical substances for which law requires notification to the appropriate authorities or 
for which approval for use from the authorities is required by law
2. Chemical substances that are extremely hazardous or harmful to the human body 
(e.g., carcinogens, explosives, etc.)
3. Chemical substances that we handle restrictively because of our policy 
(e.g., lead compounds, methyl cellosolve, etc.)
1. Chemical substances that come under certain legal restrictions2. Chemical substances that possess a certain hazard
Chemical substances classified in categories other than C0 to C3 above
Specially controlled substanceCommencement of research pertaining to discovering alternatives and reducing use, emission, exposure, etc., 
as well as protective measures, such as wearing protective gearPlanning and execution for
discontinuation or reduction
of the use or emission
of chemical substances
—
●
●
—
——
●
●
●
——
●
●
●
●—
●
Category
ProhibitionClass 0 Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 Class 4
Limitations on use •Legally restricted•Closed system/limitations on use 
•Environmental emission provision•Risk reduction controls•Reduced environmental emissions
Substances designated in 
Ordinance on Prevention of Hazards Due to Specified Chemical SubstancesProhibited to manufacture Group 1 Substances Group 2 Substances Group 3 Substances N/A
—
Acute oral toxicity test LD50Test animal: ratNo more than 30mg ⁄ kg (weight)No more than 300mg ⁄ kg (weight)Less than 2,000mg ⁄ kg (weight)More than 2,000mg ⁄ kg (weight)Mutagenicity ———
—
—
——
—
—● Mutagenicity substances designated 
by Japanese Ministry of Labor
● Ames test: positive
Chromosome aberration test: positive● Ames test: positive
Chromosome aberration test: positive● Ames test: NegativeNo data related to 
Ames testCarcinogensEither ofIARC: Group 1NTP: Type aSpecified by thename of thesubstancesEither ofIARC: Group 2ANTP: Type bEither ofIARC: Group 2BACGIH: Type A3Either ofIARC: Group 3ACGIH: A4Either ofIARC: Group 4ACGIH: A5Substances designated in Chemical Substances Control LawClass I Specified Chemical Substances
Type I Monitoring 
Chemical SubstancesClass I I Specified Chemical Substance
Type I I Monitoring Chemical SubstancesType I I I Monitoring Chemical SubstancesNotified chemicalsubstances—
Law Concerning the Protection of the Ozone Layer through the Control of Specified Substances and Other MeasuresSubstances that belong toGroup ABC I IHCFCsHBFCsGreenhouse gases — — —
— —Substances designated in 
Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control LawSpecified Poisonous Substances Poisonous SubstancesDeleterious Substances designated in 
Ordinance on Prevention ofOrganic Solvent PoisoningN/ASubstances designated in Ordinance on Prevention of Organic Solvent Poisoning
Ecotoxicity/cumulative toxicity● Ecotoxicity: Fish, daphnia, algae
LC50 < 1mg ⁄ l and
● POW > 1,000● Ecotoxicity: Fish, daphnia, algae
LC50 < 10 mg ⁄ l and
● POW > 3.0First-class organic solvents Second-class organic solventsThird-class 
organic solvents
Deleterious Substances 
apart from those designated at leftN/A
•N/A for classification
Amount of CO 2reductions and reduction rates through 
transportation efficiency improvements *4
(Domestic distribution)
Amount of CO 2 reductions (Tons CO 2⁄ year) 439.7 715.7 3,550.1
CO2 reduction rate (%) % 0.9 1.2 6.5Units Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Total CO 2 emissions + CO 2 reductionsAmount of CO 2 reductionsCO2 reduction rate (%) =NOx and PM emissions (Domestic distribution)
NOx emissions
PM emissionsTons ⁄ year 384.8 471.9 396.6
Tons ⁄ year 29.6 36.3 30.5Units Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Total CO 2emissions in domestic logistics *6
Total CO 2 Emissions Tons CO 2/year 49,323 60,499 50,845Units Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Natural resources input (Consolidated)
Aluminum
TACPETGelatinSilverTotal (Consolidated)102.4 79.6 124.3 129.9
41.7 13.8 45.6 50.4
36.5 45.8 38.6 40.6
4.2 5.8 4.5 7.4
0.7 1.2 0.5 1.0
185.5 146.2 213.5 229.3Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007Reduction ratio of packing materials for export*5
(Cumulative total)
Reduction ratio (%)*5
2007 Apr.
May
Jun.
Jul.
Aug.
Sep.3.6
4.6
4.1
3.9
3.32.9Reduction ratio (%)*
5
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
2008 Jan.
Feb.
Mar.2.8
2.7
2.6
2.6
2.62.6
Total material weight + Reduced weightReduced weightPacking material reduction ratio (%) =
(Thousand tons ⁄ year)
(Millions tons ⁄ year) Water input (Consolidated)
Domestic
Overseas
Consolidated51.7 56.1 50.2 49.2
13.4 4.2 7.3 7.3
65.1 60.3 57.5 56.5Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007Breakdown of energy consumption (Consolidated)Breakdown of energy consumption (Consolidated)
Domestic and overseas (Consolidated)
Purchased Power (total) 
Bunker oil ABunker oil CKeroseneLGOLPG
Natural gas*
3Million kWh
1,000 kl
1,000 kl1,000 kl1,000 kl
1,000 tons
Million Nm
31,330.2 1,436.5 1,419.8
120.6 119.7 94.5
75.7 72.7 52.0
5.7 4.0 5.7
6.01 3.62 6.212.54 1.81 2.03
141.1 143.9 172.2Units
Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007Energy consumption
(Six main domestic chemical factories) *1
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Opto Materials 
Co., Ltd. 
Fujifilm Fujinomiya FactoryFujifilm Yoshida-Minami FactoryFujifilm Kanagawa Factories 
(Ashigara and Odawara sites)3,155
1,278
Total 16,640
Energy intensity (%) 782,767
1,182
15,514
872,821
1,361
15,391
90—
968
12,166
92—
3,064 1,463 416 — —
4,729 5,294 5,400 5,641 5,572
946
4,414 4,807 5,392 5,556 3,720
10,238
100Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 1990Fiscal 2009
(Scheduled)
CO2emissions
(Six main domestic chemical factories) *1
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Opto Materials 
Co., Ltd. 
Fujifilm Fujinomiya FactoryFujifilm Yoshida-Minami FactoryFujifilm Kanagawa Factories 
(Ashigara and Odawara sites)157
64
-167.8
CO2 emissions intensity (%) 67162
59
-129.6
80164
77
-80.1
87—
48
-0.05
97—
144 69 20 — —
241 288 296 354 337
48
262 291 342 377 235
—
100CO2 reductions as a result of 
switching from heavy oil 
to natural gasFiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 1990Fiscal 2009
(Scheduled)28,917 TJ (Terajoules) 54% 20% 26%Total amount used*1 (Fiscal 2007)Six main domestic
chemical factories*2Other domestic
facilitiesOverseas facilities
Absolute values in TJ (Terajoules)
(Thousand tons of CO 2⁄ year)
*1 Six main domestic chemical factories: FUJIFILM Opto Materials Co., Ltd., FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.,
Fujifilm Kanagawa Factories (Ashigara and Odawara sites), Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory and Fujifilm
Fujinomiya Factory.
*2“Calculation method”: Method to calculate CO 2emissions from energy usage. DOMESTIC: Calculations
conducted according to Ministry of Environment Guidelines (proposed). For electricity purchases, averagevalue from the Federation of Electric Power Companies was used until fiscal 2004, and then coefficientsprovided separately by independent power companies were used after fiscal 2005. INTERNATIONAL:Calculations conducted retroactively based on the GHG Protocol. For electricity purchases, the “CO
2EMIS-
SIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION (2007 Edition)” by the OECD was used.
*3Natural gas: City gas is included in natural gas in domestic portion.
*4In the fiscal year 2007, we enforced our activities for CO 2reductions in collaboration with a specified con-
signer. Major reduction initiatives, which proved effective, include improving carrying efficiency by doublestacking during transport and enhancing gasoline mileage by eco-driving.
*5Total weight of Packing Materials handled by FUJIFILM Logistics Co., Ltd. in fiscal 2007 are for Export
4,467 tons. Total reduction weight and reduction rate are120 tons and 2.6% respectively.
*6Total CO
2emissions are the calculated amount of all of Fujifilm Group companies that FUJIFILM Logistics
Co., Ltd. had business. Since fiscal 2006, we shifted calculation method to the method based on revisedEnergy Conservation Law (travel distance of empty cars is not included in calculations, etc.)Data and Information Environmental Aspects Data and Information Environmental Aspects
>>>Volume of atmospheric emissions (Consolidated)
>>>Amount of water pollutant emissions (Consolidated)
>>>Surveying and remediation soil and underground water pollution conditions>>>Consumption of packaging and wrapping material 
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
>>>Zero emissions 
>>>Volume of waste generation (Consolidated)
>>>Main recycling methods for waste products
89 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 88 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008>>>Reductions in VOCs atmospheric emissions (Fujifilm non-consolidated)
>>>Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (Consolidated)
>>>Response to PRTR Law (Domestic consolidated)
>>>Storage and management of devices/equipment containing PCBs
(Consolidated)
Volume of waste generation (Consolidated)
Domestic consolidated
Overseas consolidatedTotal44.0 36.2 46.8 43.4
30.9 12.7 30.2 33.1
74.9 48.9 77.0* 76.5Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007(Thousand tons ⁄ year)
Main recycling methods for waste products
Plastics (sorted)Plastics (mixed)Magnetic tapeFiltersAluminum hydroxideInorganic sludge, polishing agentOrganic solventAcids and alkalinesMixed flammable waste products
Fluorescent lamp
Batteries
Left over food, raw garbage, organic sludgeDocuments, empty boxes
Metals such as iron, aluminum and copperPallets, pipes, clothing, heat insulation materials
Blast furnace fuel
Blast furnace fuel, tatami mat material, 
heat insulation materials
Blast furnace fuel
Alumina
Cement, roadway material, construction materials
Paint thinnerNeutralizer
Solid fuels, electricity and hot water production
Glass wool, mercury
Zinc, smelt iron
Fertilizer, animal feedRecycled paper
Smelt metalRecycling method Waste productVolume of atmospheric emissions (Consolidated)
SOx EmissionsDomestic
Overseas
Domestic and 
overseas
Domestic
Overseas
Domestic and 
overseas
Domestic
Overseas
CFC-11
CFC-12Domestic and 
overseasNOx Emissions
Soot Particle Emissions357 84 385
56 9
362 90 394
907 786 1,193
96 111 171
1,003 897 1,364
14.7 8.8 24.7
0.2 0.2 3.7
14.8 9.0 28.4
0.85 1.51 0.56
0.02 0.01 0.12Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Atmospheric Emissions 
of Specified CFCsReductions in VOCs atmospheric emissions *
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
Substances requiring
reporting under 
the PRTR Law
Substances voluntarily
controlled by 
the companyCategory Name of substance Reduction (tons)Reduction rate in
comparison to
fiscal 2000 (%)
Methyl alcoholDichloromethane
Ethyl acetate
Methyl ethyl ketone
Acetone215
1,219
325
162
5960
69
8079
46
Storage and management of devices/equipment
containing PCBs *(Consolidated)
Storing and managing amount
High voltage transformers
High voltage condensersPCB oil waste etc. Sludge, etc. Fluorescent lamp stabilizers
Low voltage condenser excluding 
fluorescent lamps
Low voltage transformer
Rags
Other devicesQuantity 31 7
Quantity 365 455
Kg 201.11 201.11
m
3 10,400.1 10,400.1
Quantity 15,258 16,758
Quantity 117,165 117,165
Quantity 31 8
Kg 927 927
Quantity 12 12Unit Types of equipment containing PCBs
Domestic consolidatedDomestic and overseas
consolidatedAtmospheric emissions of VOCs (Consolidated)
Domestic consolidated
Overseas consolidatedTotal1.4 3.1 1.3 1.3
0.4 0.2 0.3 0.2
1.8 3.3 1.6 1.5Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007(Fiscal 2007)
(Thousand tons)
In addition to those substances that must be reported under the PRTR Law
(Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law), Fujifilm controls another 10items on a voluntary basis, primarily substances specified by the JapanChemical Industry Association as requiring autonomous monitoring, and hasbeen endeavoring to reduce those emission on consolidated basis. Data (usagevolume, atmospheric emissions volume, volume going into sewage water, vol-ume moved outside of facilities, and volume recycled) on substances used inamounts of one ton or more per year by Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates maybe found on the following Fujifilm website.Response to the PRTR Law (Domestic consolidated)
*Not including items with trace levels of PCBsURL
http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/activities/
chemical/ (in Japanese)Amount of water pollutant emissions (Consolidated)
Total Amount of COD*1DomesticOverseas
Domestic and 
overseas
Domestic
Overseas
Domestic and 
overseas
Domestic
DomesticTotal Amount of BOD*
2
Total Amount of 
Nitrogen Emissions91.1 76.2 108.3
15.4 20.6 40.2
106.5 96.8 148.5
35.1 40.0 48.0
4.6 4.8 5.9
39.7 44.8 53.9
290.6 258.8 305.3
3.9 4.3 7.4Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007
Total Amount of Phosphorous Emissions
*1 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand): An indicator of water pollution. COD indicates the amount of oxygen con-
sumed when water-borne pollutants (primarily organic contaminants) are oxidized upon the introduction of
an oxidant.
*2BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand): BOD is a way to measure the degree of water pollution, and indicates
how much oxygen in the water is being used by organisms to decompose contaminants by looking at thereduction in oxygen in the water.
Kanagawa Factory (Ashigara)
Kanagawa Factory (Odawara)Fujinomiya FactoryYoshida-Minami FactoryMiyanodai DistrictAsaka AreaTokyo District (Minami Azabu)Sendai District
Ebina Center
Iwatsuki Center
Takematsu CenterNakai Research Center
Group company workplaces (three locations)
Head office (Saitama City)FUJINON Sano CorporationFUJINON Mito Corporation
Takematsu Factory
Hanamaki FactoryAkita Factory
Shizuoka Factory
Osaka Office
Other offices (nine locations)
Hiratsuka Factory
Hirono FactoryFUJIFILM Corporation
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
FUJINON CORPORATION
FUJIFILM TECHNO PRODUCTS 
CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM PHOTONIX CO., LTD. (Kurokawa-gun, Miyagi)
Fuji Technics Co., Ltd. (Ayase City)
FUJIFILM IMAGING Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Finechemicals Co., Ltd.Name of worksiteSurvey 
completion date
2001/11 Yes (soil) Heavy metals Replaced soil Completed March 2002
2001/6 Yes (soil) Heavy metals Replaced soil Completed January 2002
2001/3 No
2001/3 No2001/3 No2001/12 No2004/10 Yes (soil) Heavy metals Pending Covered with asphalt
2001/10 No1998/5 No1996/3 Yes (soil/underground water) VOC (Monitoring)Policy to be decided 
by 2010
2000/7 Yes (soil) Heavy metals Replaced soil Completed by 2009
1998/8 No
2002/3 No
2001/4 Yes (underground water) VOC Pumped water Being remediated
1997/11 No
1999/9 No
2002/4 No2001/6 No
2001/3 No
2001/11 No2001/10 No
2002/3 No
2001/11 Yes (soil) Heavy metals Replaced soil Completed April 2003
2001/6 No
2005/11 Yes VOCPending Covered with asphalt (soil)
(underground water) Pumped water Being remediated
2005/11 NoPollution 
conditionSubstance typeMethod of remediationRemediation status
(Domestic consolidated)(Tons) (Tons) Consumption of packaging and wrapping material
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
Cardboard
Paper materialsPaper containers Metal materialsExtruded plastic materialsPlastic film sheets 10.1 11.0 7.6 7.8
6.7 8.0 6.8 5.9
3.6 6.0 3.2 3.9
2.0 3.6 2.6 2.5
4.1 6.2 4.2 3.8
Total 27.1 35.5 24.8 24.60.5 0.7 0.4 0.7Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007(Thousand tons ⁄ year)
•Excluding PS-Plates
•In fiscal 2007, data regarding container packaging for a selection of items used for commercial purposes has
also been reviewed and the data edited back until the fiscal year 2000.*Reduction in volumes in fiscal 2007 compared with actual levels in fiscal 2000.
•Data was reviewed and modified this year.Surveying and remediation soil and 
underground water pollution conditionsFujifilm achieved its zero emissions targets in fiscal 2003, yet is constantly
striving to take waste management to the next level. The next task that liesbefore us is to extend our zero emissions goals to Fujifilm affiliates such asoverseas production facilities, paying special attention to those with high vol-umes of waste products. While the definition of ‘zero emissions’ differs atFujifilm and Fuji Xerox due to inherent differences in our respective lines ofbusiness, zero emission activities can be defined as “efforts to recycle all wastematerial from business operations, and to ensure no waste is processed by sim-ple incineration or landfill.”Zero emissions
The Fujifilm Group autonomously conducts environmental surveys on soil andunderground water pollution. Regarding substances that are used at manufac-turing facilities and that are subject to environmental limits set by regulations,the Group rigorously manages the usage and storage of such substances andmonitors the concentrations of such substances in underground water. We areprepared to deal with any unforeseen pollution incidents in a timely fashion(please refer to the table below).Data and Information Environmental Aspects
>>>Environmental monitoring
>>>Installing plumbing and tanks above ground
>>>Legal compliance and reports on complaints
>>>Environmental-related complaints and legal violations in fiscal 2007
>>>Environmental-related complaints, examples of legal violations and responses in fiscal 2007
>>>Continuously holding Environmental Forums to promote education and information sharing
91 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 90 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008The Fujifilm Group conducts basic environmental education for all
employees, including those overseas. The Group also offers trainingfor specific fields and operations in addition to basic education foroperators and administrators who are required to possess special-ized knowledge and capabilities. In addition, Environmental Forumshave been held annually since 2002, to share and commonly utilizeinformation about various technologies and initiatives related toenvironmental concerns within the Group. The seventh event,Environmental Forum 2008, was held on March 13, 2008 under themain theme of preventing global warming, a common issue acrossthe world; approximately 400 employees participated.
•Outline of Environmental Forum 2008
Poster Session
Group companies presented 49 cases of environment-related efforts.Keynote addressTakejiro Sueyoshi, Special Advisor to the UNEP (United NationsEnvironment Programme) Finance Initiative, who possesses in-depth knowl-edge of environmental problems and CSR, delivered the keynote address.  PresentationsFujifilm Group employees gave four presentations about efforts for stoppingglobal warming and other initiatives. Panel discussionFive members from the Fujifilm Group participated in a panel discussion onreducing the environmental burden of our products.Environmental-related complaints and
legal violations in fiscal 2007Environmental-related complaints, examples of legal violations and responses in fiscal 2007
Panel discussion Poster session
Issue: Complaints from area residents regarding noise around the borders with neighboring
companies late at night (outside operational hours).
Response: Neighboring companies were contacted and the parties agreed to take action after
confirming the situation.
Number of Complaints
(number of cases solved)6
(6)06
(6)
06
(5)6
(5)Domestic Overseas Total
Number of Legal Violations
(number of cases solved)
TOPIC
Continuously holding Environmental Forums 
to promote education and information sharingGRI Guideline Comparison Tables
Regarding “pages in this Report”:
None: When FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report 2008 has no clear quantitative information that corresponds to the indicator  despite said indicator
being under Fujifilm Group’s management.N/A: When those indicators have little relation with the Fujifilm Group’s business or there is no need of management.˕PR9
Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products an d services. N/A˓PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. N/A˓PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 52-53
˓PR7Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including  adver-
tising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.N/A˓EN25Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affectedby the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff.N/A˓EN24Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the BaselConvention Annex 
I, I I, I I I, and V I I I, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.N/A˓EN15Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by oper-ations, by level of extinction risk.None˓EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 28, 67-69
˕EN12Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value
outside protected areas.None
˓EN13 Habitats protected or restored. None˕EN11Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiver-
sity value outside protected areas.None˓EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 56˓EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 66˕EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 86-90˓EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. None˓EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 16-19, 86-90˕EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 56, 86-90˕EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 56, 86-90˕EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 12-13, 15˕EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 56˓EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. None˕EC8Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in- kind, or pro
bono engagement.36-37˕EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant oper ation. None˕EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. None˓EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. None˕EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. None˕EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. None˕EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 16-19, 84Item Performance Indicators (˕ Core/˓ Add) Pages in this Report
˕EC1Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, dona-tions and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.941.1Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of
sustainability to the organization and its strategy.2-3
4.10Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social
performance.30
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.30-31, 36-39,
42-45, 60-61
4.12Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization s ubscribes
or endorses.38-39, 60-61
4.13Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organiza-tions in which the organization: •Has positions in governance bodies; •Participates in projects or committees;•Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or •Views membership as strategic.38-39, 60-61
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 79
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 79
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 28-29, 32-33, 79
4.17Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization hasresponded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.15, 28-29, 32-34, 57, 67-69, 791.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 28-29
2.1 Name of the organization. Editorial Policy, 94
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 94
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 95
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 95
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 95
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 94
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 96
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Editorial Policy
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). None
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Editorial Policy
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover
3.5Process for defining report content, including:•Determining materiality; •Prioritizing topics within the report; and •Identifying stakeholders the organizationexpects to use the report. Editorial Policy,28-29
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Editorial Policy, 94
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Editorial Policy
3.8Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entitiesthat can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.None
3.9Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlyingestimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.Editorial Policy
3.10Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods).None
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. N/A
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 91
3.13Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report a ccompanying
the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the report-
ing organization and the assurance provider(s).Editorial Policy
4.1Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as
setting strategy or organizational oversight.30
4.2Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function
within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement).30
4.3For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are inde pendent
and/or non-executive members.None
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. None
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. None4.5Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (includ-ing departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance).None
4.7Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body forguiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics.31
4.8Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic,environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.2-3
4.9Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environm ental,
and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed sta ndards,
codes of conduct, and principles.312.8Scale of the reporting organization, including:
•Number of employees; •Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organi-zations); •Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and•Quantity of products or services provided.81-82
94-95
2.9Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:•The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and •Changesin the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for privatesector organizations).Editorial Policy, 282.5Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or
that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.95
˓EN6Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in ener-gy requirements as a result of these initiatives.16-19, 86-90˕EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. N/A˕EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 86-90˕EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 86-90˕EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 86-90˕EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 86-90˕EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 16-19˕EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 86-90˕EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 86-90
˕PR6Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, prom otion,
and sponsorship.None˓PR4Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling,
by type of outcomes.N/A˕PR3Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such infor-
mation requirements.None˕PR1Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement,
and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures.36-37˕SO1Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of opera-tions on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.None˕HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. 22
˕HR7Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of
forced or compulsory labor.N/A˕HR5Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at
significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.N/A˕HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. N/A˓HR3Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including
the percentage of employees trained.None˕HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. None˕HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. None˕LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. None˓LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. None˕LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. None˕LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. None˕LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. 81-82˕LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. None˕LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. None˓LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. None˕LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. None˕LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 94˓EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 79, 85˓EN29Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and trans-
porting members of the workforce.86-90˕EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 86-90˓EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. None˓EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 12-13, 58-59, 62-63
˕LA8Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members,
their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.51˓LA6Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise
on occupational health and safety programs.None
˕LA13Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group members hip,
and other indicators of diversity.81-82˓LA11Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in m anaging
career endings.46-49
Disclosure on
ManagementApproachGoals and Performance
Policy
Organizational Responsibility
Training and Awareness
Monitoring and Follow-up
Additional Contextual Information2-3, 29
2-3, 28, 36-37
78
36-37
36-37, 78
36-37Disclosure onManagementApproachGoals and Performance
Policy
Organizational Responsibility
Training and Awareness
Monitoring and Follow-up
Additional Contextual Information2-3, 29, 54-55
2-3, 29, 54-55
31, 54-55
57, 67-69, 90
30
28-29, 54-55Disclosure onManagementApproachGoals and Performance
Policy
Additional Contextual Information2-3, 29, 94
2-3, 32-33
2-3, 28, 94Disclosure onManagementApproachGoals and Performance
Policy
Organizational Responsibility
Training and Awareness
Monitoring and Follow-up
Additional Contextual Information2-3, 29
2-3, 29
30-31
76-77
36-37
NoneDisclosure onManagementApproachGoals and Performance
Policy
Organizational Responsibility
Training and Awareness
Monitoring and Follow-up
Additional Contextual Information2-3, 29, 81-82
46-49
28-29
34, 46-49
34, 46-49
46-49Disclosure onManagementApproachGoals and Performance
Policy
Organizational Responsibility
Training and Awareness
Monitoring and Follow-up
Additional Contextual Information2-3, 29, 81-82
46-49
28-29
46-49
34, 46-49
34, 46-49
˓PR2Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and
services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.N/A˕SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 90
ComplianceCompliance˕SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. N/A˓SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. N/A˕SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. N/A˕SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 42-44˕SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 42-44˕SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. N/A˓HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. N/A˓HR8Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that a re relevant
to operations.N/A
Anti-Competitive BehaviorPublic PolicyCorruptionCommunitySocietyIndigenous RightsSecurity PracticesChild LaborFreedom of Association and Collective BargainingNon-discriminationInvestment and Procurement PracticesHuman RightsDiversity and Equal OpportunityTraining and EducationOccupational Health and SafetyLabor/Management RelationsEmploymentLabor Practices and Decent WorkOverallTransportComplianceProducts and Services
Customer PrivacyMarketing CommunicationsEmissions, Effluents, and Waste
BiodiversityWaterEnergyMaterialsEnvironmentalIndirect Economic ImpactsMarket PresenceEconomic Performance IndicatorsEconomicManagement Approach and Performance Indicators1. Strategy and Profile
Commitments to External Initiatives
Stakeholder Engagement2. Organizational Profile
3. Report Parameters
Report Profile
Report Scope and Boundary
GRI Content Index
Assurance
4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
Governance
Product and Service LabelingCustomer Health and SafetyProduct ResponsibilityItem Indicators Pages in this Report
To decrease chemical substance emissions, the Fujifilm Group has adopted air
and water quality standards that are stricter than legal requirements and under-takes stringent autonomous chemical substance controls. Regarding sub-stances covered by the PRTR Law, the Group regularly conducts surveysaround factories that use such substances to monitor concentrations of suchsubstances in the air.
As a proactive measure to prevent pollution problems from arising, the Fujifilm
Group is now installing all new plumbing and tanks above ground to facilitateinspections and the location of leaks. We are also steadily proceeding withplans to relocate existing underground plumbing and tanks to above-groundlocations as well as to install backup plumbing for emergencies.
In the fiscal year 2007, there were six violations of Environmental-related regu-
lations and six cases of environmental-related complaints. Primarily, these com-plaints concerned noise and vibration issues, all of which were addressedimmediately with appropriate measures that were thoroughly explained to thesatisfaction of the local residents. Every effort is being made to raise manage-ment levels and prevent recurrence.Environmental monitoring
Installing plumbing and tanks above ground
Legal compliance and reports on complaintsFujifilm Asaka Area Complaint: noise (1 case)
Issue: Complaints from area residents regarding exhaust ventilation noise. 
Response: The operating time of the exhaust fan after business hours was shortened and the
shape of exhaust ports modified to reduce noise.FUJINON Complaint: noise (1 case)
Issue: Complaints from area residents about noise generated from discharge valve.Response: Valves were tightened and work procedures were subsequently revised, with the per-
son in charge of handling bulbs receiving the related training.Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials Complaint: noise (1 case)
Issue: Complaints were received from area residents about TV pictures going out when the
power was cut in company buildings in response to lightening striking a cubicle (elec-tric switchboard equipment). 
Response: Corrective actions were taken regarding the power supply for local boosters during
power interruptions inside the company. Notices were posted that power will be sup-plied to two boosters.FUJIFILM MEDIA CREST Complaint: electromagnetic interference (1 case)
Issue: Results of an inspection by the Kansas Department of Health and Environmentrevealed there were six legal violations, including inadequate labeling regarding thedisposal and management of toxic waste inside the laboratories.  
Response: Fine of $6,100 paid to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, actions
taken to ensure thorough management in the laboratories.FUJIFILM Sericol U.S.A.
Legal violation: Toxic waste disposal and management methods (1 case)
Issue: Increased measurement of BOD and copper were discovered in wastewater and this
was reported to the local government. An investigation inside the plant was unable toidentify the cause. 
Response: There was no penalty from the local government, but re-training and education were
carried out on how to operate the liquid waste system; the investigation into thecause continues.FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) Belgium
Legal violation: Increased measurement of BOD and copper in wastewater (1 case)93 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 92 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Evaluation Results Based on AA1000 Assurance Standards95 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 94 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008The Fujifilm Group aims to become a global enterprise, trusted by society and customers, by making broad contributions to the advancement of culture, science, technol-
ogy and industry. In addition, we will contribute to the improvement of people’s health and conserve global resources, while making further contributions to societythrough active business operations in the Imaging Solutions Segment, Information Solutions Segment and Document Solutions Segme nt.
Imaging Solutions
The Imaging Solutions Segment handles color films, digital cameras, photo finishing equipment, and color paper, chemicals, services for photofinishing.
Information Solutions
The Information Solutions Segment handles medical systems and life sciences, equipment and materials for graphic arts, flat panel display (FPD) materials, recordingmedia, optical devices, electronic materials and inkjet materials.
Document Solutions
The Document Solutions Segment handles office copy machines/multifunction devices, printers, production systems and services, paper, consumables, and global services.Fujifilm Group Business Overview
Operating company<Subject Notation in Reporting> Fujifilm Group (appropriate utilization of “consolidated” and “group”)
<Subject Notation in Reporting> Fujifilm and its affiliatesHolding Company
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
■ Company Name: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
■ Representative: Shigetaka Komori
■ Head Office: 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052
Tokyo Midtown■ Date Established: January 20, 1934
■ Capital: ¥40,363 million (As of March 31, 2008)
■ Consolidated Employees: 78,321 (As of March 31, 2007)
■ Consolidated Subsidiaries: 227 (As of March 31, 2008)
FUJIFILM Corporation
Head Office: Tokyo Midtown
Bases of operation: (Manufacturing, R&D)
Odawara, Ashigara, Fujinomiya, Yoshida-Minami, Asaka, Miyanodai, Kaisei<Subject Notation in Reporting> Fuji Xerox and its affiliates
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Head Office: Tokyo Midtown
Bases of operation: (Manufacturing, R&D)
Ebina, Iwatsuki, Takematsu, Kawasaki, Suzuka, Toyama, Niigata (Kashiwazaki), 
Nakai, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Palo Alto (California, USA), Inchon (Korea), 
Taoyuan (Taiwan)
Distribution centers: Major cities in JapanOperating company
Fuji Xerox Affiliates (Consolidated companies) Fujifilm Affiliates (Consolidated companies)
[Japan]
FUJINON CORPORATION
FUJINON Mito Corporation
FUJINON Sano Corporation
Fujinon Toshiba ES Systems Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM TECHNO PRODUCTS CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Co., Ltd.
Fuji Technics Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM PHOTONIX CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Media Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM PHOTO MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Opto Materials Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM TPX Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Finechemicals Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Digital Techno Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM BUSINESS SUPPLY CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Graphic Systems Co., Ltd.
FFGS Techno Service Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Healthcare Laboratory Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM IMAGING Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imagetec Co., Ltd.
FIC Production Center Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM LOGISTICS CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Techno Service Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM MEDIA CREST CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Software Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM PRESENTEC CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Human Resources Development Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Computer System Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Co., Ltd.[Overseas]
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Sericol U.S.A. Inc.
FUJIFILM Sericol Brasil Produtos para Impressão Ltda.
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants, Inc.
FUJIFILM Finance U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM Recording Media Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Dimatix, Inc.
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc.
Problem Solving Concepts, Inc
FUJIFILM Hawaii, Inc.
FUJIFILM Graphic Systems U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Hunt Smart Surface, LLCFUJIFILM Hunt do Brasil – Produção de Químicos Ltda.
FUJIFILM Canada Inc.
FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda.
FUJIFILM da Amazonia Ltda.
FUJIFILM Europe B.V.
FUJIFILM HOLDINGS UK LTD.
FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V.
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Europe NV
FUJIFILM Europe NV
Fuji Hunt Photographic Chemicals (France) S.A.L.
Fuji Hunt Photographic Chemicals (Italia) Srl
Fuji Hunt Nordic AB, Sweden
FUJI HUNT IBERICA, S.L.
FUJIFILM Europe GmbH
FUJIFILM Italia S.r.l.
FUJIFILM España, S.A.
FUJIFILM Medical Systems Benelux NV
FUJIFILM Medical Systems Italia S.p.A
Photofinishing Holding International B.V.Fujicolor Central Europe Photofinishing Verwaltungs GmbHFujicolor Central Europe Photofinishing GmbH & Co. KG
FUJIFILM Holdings France SAS
FUJIFILM Graphic Systems France SAS
FUJIFILM France SAS
LABORATORIES FUJIFILM SA
FUJIFILM Medical Systems France SAS
FUJIFILM UK LIMITED
Fuji Hunt Photographic Chemicals (U.K.) Ltd.
FUJIFILM Finance Europe B.V.
FUJIFILM Recording Media GmbH
FUJIFILM Electronic Imaging Europe GmbH
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) N.V.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) Ltd.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) GmbH
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) S.A.S.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) S.r.l.
FUJIFILM Sericol Overseas Holdings Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol Deutschland GmbH
Colormy AG
FUJIFILM Sericol France S.A.S.
FUJIFILM Sericol Austria GmbH
FUJIFILM Sericol Broadstairs Limited
Sericol Limited
FUJIFILM Holdings Australia Pty Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol Nederland BV
Profisol BV
FUJIFILM Sericol International Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol de Mexico SA de CV
FUJIFILM Sericol Servicios Mexico SA de CV
FUJIFILM Sericol UK Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol Switzerland GmbH
FUJIFILM Sericol España SL Sociedad
FUJIFILM Sericol Polska Sp zoo
FUJIFILM Sericol Czech Republic SRO
FUJIFILM Sericol Hong Kong Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol India Private Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol Canada Limited
Sericol China Limited
FUJIFILM Sericol China Limited
Sericol Ink Limited
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Limited
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Pension Trustees Limited
FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Digital Imaging Products (SUZHOU) Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM STARLIGHT Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Medical Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
S&M EQUIPMENT TECHNO SERVICES (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD.
FUJIFILM (Thailand) Ltd.
FUJIFILM Holdings Australasia Pty Ltd
FUJIFILM Holdings NZ Ltd.
Camera House Limited
FUJIFILM NZ Limited
Viko New Zealand Limited
FUJIFILM Australia Pty Ltd
Rabbit Photo Pty Ltd
FUJIFILM Hong Kong Limited
FUJIFILM Regional Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Singapore Pte. Ltd.
FUJI HUNT ASIAN PACIFIC HOLDING PTY LTD
DS CHEMPORT (AUSTRALIA) PTY LTD
DS CHEMPORT (MALAYSIA) SDN BHD
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Suzhou Co.,Ltd.
FUJIFILM(Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
FUJINON INC.
FUJINON (EUROPA) GmbH
FUJINON TIANJIN OPTICAL CO., LTD.FUJINON SHENZHEN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Taiwan Co., Ltd.
*Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. changed its name to FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation on October 1, 2006, and the operations of Fuji Phot o Film Co., Ltd. have been succeeded by FUJIFILM Corporation.
*In addition to the Group companies listed above, FUJIFILM Business Expert Corporation, a shared-service company, consolidates o perating functions, such as general administration, personnel and purchasing of indirect materials, 
and insurance agencies within the Group. Also, Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd., handles drug discovery, production and pharmaceutical  sales.[Japan]
Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials Co., Ltd.
Suzuka Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Office Supply Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Information Systems Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Engineering Co., Ltd. 
Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Hokkaido Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Miyagi Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Niigata Co., Ltd. 
Fuji Xerox Gunma Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Chiba Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Saitama Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Kanagawa Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Tokyo Co., Ltd. 
Fuji Xerox Tama Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Hokuriku Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Nagano Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Shizuoka Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Aichi-Higashi Co., Ltd. 
Fuji Xerox Aichi Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Kyoto Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Fukushima Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Osaka Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Hyogo Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Shikoku Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Okayama Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Hiroshima Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Kita-Kyushu Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Kumamoto Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Ibaraki Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Gifu Co., Ltd. 
Fuji Xerox Iwate Co., Ltd
Fuji Xerox Nara Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Yamaguchi Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Tochigi Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Mie Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Nagasaki Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Fukuoka Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Kagoshima Co., Ltd.
Xworks Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Yamanashi Co., Ltd.
CrossForse Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Interfield Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Career Net Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Learning Institute Inc.
Niigata Fuji Xerox Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
FXPS Sales Co., Ltd.[Overseas]
FX Global Inc.
FX Global Supply Solutions, Inc.
FX Palo Alto Laboratory Inc.
Fuji Xerox China Investments (Bermuda) Limited
Fuji Xerox (China) Limited
Fuji Xerox of Shanghai Limited
Fuji Xerox Industry Development (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Eco-Manufacturing ʢSuzhouʣCo., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Leasing (China) Ltd.
Fuji Xerox (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
Thai Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Philippines, Incorporated
Fuji Xerox Myanmar Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Leasing (Thailand) Limited
Fuji Xerox Asia Malaysia Sdn Bhd
Fuji Xerox Finance Limited
Fuji Xerox Australia Pty. Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Australia BPO Pty Limited
Fuji Xerox BPO Pty Limited
Enhanced Processing Technologies Pty Ltd.
Fuji Xerox (Sales) Pty. Limited
Fuji Xerox New Zealand Limited
Fuji Xerox Taiwan Corporation
Taiwan Fuji Xerox System Service Corp.
Fuji Xerox Korea Company Limited
Fuji Xerox Chung Cheong Company Limited
Fuji Xerox Korea Information System Co., Ltd.
Seoul Fuji Xerox Service Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Honam Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Far East Ltd.
Fuji Xerox (Hong Kong) Limited
Fuji Xerox Eco-Manufacturing Co., Ltd The Scope of This Report
Revenue Proportion of revenue by region
(Consolidated)Net income Proportion of revenue from 
operating segments
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)25,66725,66725,27325,27326,67426,67427,82527,82528,46828,468
2,566.72,527.32,667.42,782.52,846.8
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2003823823 82.3
2004845845 84.5
2005370370 37.0
2006344344 34.4
20071,0441,044 104.4
120
80
40
0Japan
44.2% Europe
15.8%
The Americas
19.6%Asia and others
20.4%Imaging
Solutions
19.2%
Information
Solutions
38.9%Document
Solutions
41.9%Fiscal
2007Fiscal
2007
Color Films 
and Others
14%Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income (loss)
Electronic 
Imaging30%
Color Paper and Chemicals
24%Photofinishing 
Equipment7%Labs and 
FDi Services18%Others 7%−75.7−2.4
−42.6
547.1
605.4
689.41,000
500
0100
0
-100
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007
Medical Systems/
Life Sciences
26%Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income
Graphic Arts
28%
FPD Materials
19%Recording 
Media8%Office and Industry 
18%127.4
95.2
79.1
1,108.1
1,026.1
877.31,000
500
0100
50
0
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007Others 1%
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income
Office Products
55ˋ
Office Printers 
17ˋProduction
Services
13ˋGlobal Services  7ˋ86.7
61.2
67.0
1,191.6
1,151.0
1,100.71,000
500
0100
50
0
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007Others 8ˋ
FinePix F100fd FinePix Z20fd
Photobooks
SYNAPSE EX
ApeosPort-I I IC3300/C2200
DocuPrint C2250
DocuColor 8000AP Digital Press
FCR
CAPSULA-2
Luxel T-9800CTP HS97 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008 96 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2008Fujifilm Asaka Area
FUJIFILM TECHNO PRODUCTS CO., LTD.
Head Office and Takematsu Factory
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Co., Ltd.
Fuji Technics Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Iwatsuki Center
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co. Ltd.
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co. Ltd.
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc. (Dayton)
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc. (Rhode Island)FUJIFILM Sericol U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM Graphic Systems U.S.A., Inc. COUS (New Castle)FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Limited
FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.Letter of appreciation for cooperating in a memorial project mark-
ing the 40th anniversary of Asaka’s incorporation as a city
Grand Prize at 2007 Chairman’s Awards, 
Kanto Electric Safety Committee
Letter of appreciation for traffic safety campaign
Award for Excellence in Business Operations
Award for Effort at the “Stop Global Warming - Cool it, Sai-no-Kuni” Contest
Award for Best Business Operations at “Safe Drivers Chiba 2007”Silver Order of Merit 
Adopt-A-Highway County Winner 
(received in April 2008 for CY2007) 
The Governor’s Award in Trade Excellence
Perfect ComplianceWater Gold Award2007 I3A Safety Excellence AwardEnvironmental Leadership AwardSafety Excellence AwardGold Award for Occupational Health and Safety (2007)
Compliance unit of clean production audit in 2006Asaka City
Name of Appraisal and Award Recipient Awarding Entity
Electric Safety Kanagawa Prefecture Committee
Yoshida Town Traffic Safety Committee
Kanagawa Association for Safety of Hazardous MaterialsSaitama Prefecture
Chiba Prefecture Traffic Safety Promotion Committee
Japanese Red Cross Society
South Carolina Department of TransportationState of Tennessee
Narragansett Bay CommissionKansas Water Environment AssociationI3A (International Imaging Industry Association)Tag and Label Manufacturers InstituteInternational Imaging Industry AssociationThe Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA)
Environmental Protection Bureau of Lan Fang city, 
He Bei Province, ChinaFUJIFILM Holdings has received the following evaluations by external
organizations as a corporate group that proactively promotes CSRactions toward sustainable development. It is included in the SociallyResponsible Investment (SRI) indexes listed below. Also listed beloware evaluations of FUJIFILM Holdings in domestic and internationalranking surveys.FUJIFILM Holdings disseminates information relating to managementstrategy, financial information, and other corporate matters, based onits IR information disclosure policy, placing importance on timeliness,fairness, accuracy, and continuity. In terms of disclosure, we do not merely issue financial data. We enableshareholders, investors and other stakeholders to more thoroughlyunderstand the management status of the Fujifilm Group and to main-tain a relationship of trust by proactively disseminating more substantialinformation about priority issues in the Medium-term Management Planas well as their progress. 
Therefore, we will continue to increase opportunities and tools to provideinformation. In addition, as a rule, all documents are released in Japaneseand English at the same time, in an effort to release information insideand outside Japan without any time lag. And to further augment the dis-semination of information to investors, we have updated our shareholderand investor information site in June 2008 to provide expanded financialdata as well as additional details from various perspectives on the sub-stantial changes in Fujifilm Group’s business structure. ●FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report 2007 received the Award for
Excellence in the sustainability report awards section of the 11thEnvironmental and Sustainability Report Awards, jointly sponsored byToyo Keizai, Inc. and the Green Reporting Forum. This is the fourthconsecutive year the company has received an award.
●Fuji Xerox’s DocuPrint C1100, color laser printer, received the EnergyConservation Center Chairman’s Prize in the 18th EnergyConservation Prize (for energy conserving equipment and systems)sponsored by the Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry. This isthe ninth consecutive year the company received the award.
●Fuji Xerox’s digital color multifunction devices/printers received theMETI Minister’s prize from the Ministry of Economy, Trade andIndustry in the Eco Products Category at the 4th Eco ProductsAwards, sponsored by Eco-Products Awards Steering Committee, afirst in the industry. 
●Fuji Xerox environmental series advertisements, with the theme ofrecycling resources, received the Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Award inthe 42nd Industrial Advertising Association-Japan Awards.
●Fujifilm’s three products and services: Fujifilm Web Photo Museum& Shop, FinePix Z100fd, FinePix BIG JOB HD-3W, as well as theFUJIFILM Advanced Research Laboratories received Good DesignAwards for 2007.
●Fujifilm’s FinePix S100FS super-zoom digital camera received theBest Super Zoom Digital Camera at the TIPA Awards 2008.
●The returnable container jointly developed by Fuji Xerox and StarwayCo., Ltd. and implementation of a recycling-oriented delivery systemreceived the Technology Prize in the 24th Logistics Awards sponsoredby the Japan Institute of Logistics Systems. This is the first time FujiXerox has received the award. 
●Fuji Xerox received the Industrial Science and Technology Policy andEnvironment Bureau Director-General’s Prize and EncouragementPrize at the Awards for 3R (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle)-Oriented,Sustainable Technology 2007 hosted by the Clean Japan Center. (Thiswas awarded in recognition of Fuji Xerox’s implementation of theInternational Resource Recycling System and the company’s resourcerecycling-oriented color multifunction devices that realize a partsreuse rate of more than 60%.)Domestic and International Appraisals Dissemination of Investor Relations Information/Disclosure of CSR Information
Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 2008
Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Global Index
Inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment IndexDissemination of investor relations information Ranking and status of SRI audit
Appraisal and awards for FUJIFILM Holdings sites and domestic and overseas affiliatesMajor awards for fiscal 2007
Information on CSR efforts, FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report and
Fuji Xerox Sustainability Report in addition to reports from operationalsites can be found on the Web.Disclosure of CSR information
FUJIFILM Holdings Annual ReportFujifilm Holdings 
Sustainability Report
Shareholder and Investor Information
Fuji Xerox 
Sustainability Report
URL
FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Activities
http://www.fujifilm.com/about/sustainability/report/index.html
Fujifilm (environment and social activities)
http://www.fujifilm.com/about/sustainability/index.html
Fuji Xerox Sustainability Report 
http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/eng/sr/URL FUJIFILM Holdings (shareholders and investors)
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/investors/index.html
We hope you find this report useful. The Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities com-
prise the accumulated efforts of each employee. In assembling this report,we changed the overall style of presentation from a conventional stakeholderapproach to focus on CSR priority issues, with the desire to convey theFujifilm Group’s CSR activities to readers in an easy-to-understand manner.Furthermore, we tried to cover more CSR activities from factories, work-places, Fuji Xerox, and overseas affiliates than in the report issued last year.
We are always seeking, through trial and error, for ways to make this reporteasier to understand and would appreciate receiving your honest commentsand recommendations.Editorial postscriptSurvey Evaluation for FUJIFILM Holdings
Newsweek 500 List of the World’s Most 
Sustainable Companies 2008 (Newsweek Global)
1 1th Nikkei Environmental Management Survey (sponsored by Nihon Keizai Shimbun)
3rd Company Quality Management Survey (sponsored by the Union of Japanese Scientists    and Engineers)
Eco Brand Survey 2007 CSR evaluation ranking (Nikkei Business Publications, Inc.)
SAM Sustainability Year Book 2008(Sustainable Asset Management AG)177th out 817
4th out 520 manufacturers
4th out 215 companies
(eco-brand ranking index)
1 1th (deviation: 69.5)
SAM Silver ClassFUJIFILM Holdings Fujifilm Fuji Xerox
Kouichi Suematsu (left)
Corporate Vice President, 
General Manager, CSR Group,Corporate Support Division
Akiko Gosho (right)
Operations Manager, CSR GroupCorporate Support Division
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
The Tokugawa Art Museum was established in 1935 and 
displays extensive holdings of the Owari branch of the Tokugawa family (the head of three honorable houses of the Tokugawa, the ruling shogun family) during the Edo Period (1603-1867). The Museum owns well over 10,000 items, including articles left behind by the first shogun, Ieyasu Tokugawa, as well as collections and bridal trousseaus of successive lords and their wives. Since most of the treasures of the daimyo (feudal lords) were lost in Japan after the Meiji Restoration and World War 
I I, the holdings of The Tokugawa 
Art Museum represent the only extensive repository and collection of daimyo artifacts. Therefore, 
this museum is the only art museum in Japan that can answer the questions, “What are the 
treasures of the daimyo?” and “What is a daimyo from the Early Modern Period?”Recording and storing cultural heritage and works of art to pass down to future 
generations through photography and imaging is one of the Fujifilm Group’s CSR efforts through our core business. With the cooperation of The Tokugawa Art Museum, we are presenting four quires of the “Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI,” a Japanese National Treasure, on the cover and gate pages of this year’s report.
Note: National Treasure, “Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI,” is believed to be the oldest handscroll in existence 
based on The Tale of Genji, the world’s oldest full-length novel. The “Picture Scroll of The Tale of GENJI” is 
believed to have been produced in the final years of the Heian Period (in the first half of the 12th century).
The Tokugawa Art Museum
1017 Tokugawa-cho, Higashi-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan
Tel: +81-52-935-6262
Date of publication: October 2008
©2008 FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationPicture Scroll of 
The Tale of GENJI; “Yomogiu” 
Treasures from 
The Tokugawa Art Museum 
(Page 4)
Picture Scroll of 
The Tale of GENJI; “Yadorigi 
I I I” 
Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum
(Page 26)
Picture Scroll of 
The Tale of GENJI; 
“Azumaya 
I” 
Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum(Page 40)
Picture Scroll of 
The Tale of GENJI;  
“Hashihime”
Treasures from The Tokugawa Art Museum(Page 74) 
This report is printed and bound in accordance with 
GPN-GL14 Purchasing Guidelines for Offset Printing Service.Paper: FSC certified (eco-friendly virgin pulp)Ink: Aroma-free, over 20% vegetable oil, less than 15% petroleum solutionBinding: Notch-binding using EVA hot-melt adhesive, designed to facilitate recyclingThis report is printed using 
an environmentally friendly process 
awarded as “Gold” status by the Environmental Pollution Prevention 
Printing Association E3PA. 
http://www.e3pa.comThis report is printed using a processless CTP system, 
an eco-friendly printing system developed by the Fujifilm Group. Processless CTP is a system that does not require any chemical processing, thereby eliminating liquid effluent. It is very effective for reducing CO
2 
emissions compared to existing thermal CTP systems.
FSC certified papers are used for this report.
Please recycle this report when no longer required.About the artwork on the cover and title pages
Please address inquiries on this publication to:
CSR Group, Corporate Support Division
Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, 
Tokyo, 107-0052
Tel: +81-3-627 1-2065 Fax: +81-3-627 1-1 190
