4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ3FQPSU 
'6+*'*-.)PMEJOHT$PSQPSBUJPOTop Commitment  ........................................................................................................... 04
Fujifilm Group’s 80 Years  
Challenge “Innovation”—Responding to Varying Social Needs .......................................... 06
The Fujifilm Group’s Business .............................................................................................. 08Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ....................................................... 10Corporate Philosophy/Vision/Charter for Corporate Behavior ............................................. 10
FUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Part 1  In Creating a New Medium-Term CSR Plan ............................................................ 12
Part 2  Creating the Triple Promotion Policy ....................................................................... 14
Part 3  Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Environment] .................. 16
  Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Health] ............................ 18
  Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Daily Life] ....................... 22
  Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Working Style] ................ 25CSR Activity Report  ............................................................ 27
CSR Activity Report in FY2013 .............................................. 28Topics in FY2013 .................................................................... 30Social Contribution Activities Across the World ..................... 36Corporate Governance ........................................................... 38CSR Management .................................................................. 39Quality Improvement in Compliance and  
Risk Management Activities ................................................... 41
Overall View of the Environmental Impact of  
the Fujifilm Group ................................................................... 43
Promoting Anti-Global Warming Measures ............................ 44Development and Dissemination of Environmentally  
Conscious Products and Services ......................................... 46
Effective Use of Resources .................................................... 48Biodiversity Conservation ....................................................... 50Improving Chemical Substance Management ....................... 52Respect for Human Rights ..................................................... 53Effective Utilization and Training of Human Resources .......... 54Occupational Health and Safety ............................................. 56Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers ................................... 57Products and Services which Reflect  
Our Customers’ Views ............................................................ 58
Integration of Business and Social Contributions .................. 60
Data and Information  ......................................................... 61
Compliance and Risk Management ....................................... 62Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation) ........................ 63Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) ............................................ 64Environmental Aspects ........................................................... 65Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and  
Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting) ......... 68
Domestic and International Appraisals ................................... 70
Third-Party Opinion .................................................................... 71Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview ................. 72Editorial Policy ............................................................................ 73CONTENTSThe Fujifilm Group celebrated its 80th anniversary in January 2014. 
To be “a company trusted by society and which walks together with society,” since our foundation we have strived to create new values to help resolve social challenges. The greater scale of the challenges surrounding today’s society is evident—including global warming—and this is surely the time for a company to demonstrate its raison d’être in society. Regarding the 80th anniversary as our new starting line, we continue to contribute to the sustainable development of society for the next generation through our business activities.At Fujifilm, we are continuously innovating —  
creating new technologies, products and services that inspire and excite people everywhere.  Our goal is to empower the potential and  expand the horizons of tomorrow’s  businesses and lifestyles.
We take an open and flexible attitude to innovation,  
combining our own original technology with human resources,  expertise and technology from around the world.Through this powerful synergy, we rapidly and nimbly  develop new solutions that address the true needs of  our global customers.
2 3 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Top Commitment
Never stopping the progress  
in business reform
Japan ’s real economic growth in FY2013 stood at 2.3%, ris -
ing far above the 0.7% recorded in the previous fiscal year. I 
believe this is the result of the joint efforts between the gov-ernment and industry in implementing the structural reform of Japan gradually being felt in various areas. The Japanese government is about to compile its growth strategy consist-ing of a “Big-Boned Policy,” “Japan Revitalization Strategy” and “Regulatory Reform Implementation Plan,” which the industrial sector must actively apply and work even harder to restore Japan to a course of growth.
At the same time, the growth and stability of Japan 
has become closely linked to growth and stability in other countries with advances in economic globalization. Japan can no longer focus its attention only on its own prosperity. Once there is stagnation in economic activity or strife in an emerging nation, it immediately impacts the economic and political situation in various industrialized nations. Natural di-sasters or environmental pollution in one country will impose a heavy burden on all neighboring nations. In the course of the development and growth of a business corporation, re-gion or nation, it is important to shed a self-centered focus only on one’s own organization or nation and to replace it with a broad perspective extending to the region and to the world and with an awareness to promote coexistence and co-prosperity.
Today, Fujifilm operates in many different parts of the 
world, and the ratio of our overseas business has reached 57.5% (for FY2013) of consolidated sales. In order to sur -
vive the intense global competition and to continue to main-tain our status as an “excellent company,” we must pursue continual business reform and embrace change from new perspectives, unconfined by existing approaches and prac-tices, and ultimately engender change itself.
Triggering innovation and creating value
Fujifilm celebrated its 80th anniversary in January 2014. From its birthplace in Minami-ashigara, Kanagawa Prefecture, the company aspired to manufacture photo-graphic films domestically. Since then, it has been promoting business growth as a company trusted by and progressing with society. Founded on its strengths in technology, prod-uct development and marketing and on its trusted brand name cultivated through photo film development, Fujifilm is operating in the six business fields of “Healthcare” covering medical equipment, pharmaceuticals, cosmetic products, etc., “Graphic Systems” for printing equipment and materi-als; “Highly Functional Materials” that include optical film for LCD panels and touch panel parts and materials; “Optical Devices” including TV lenses and optical parts for satellites; “Digital Imaging” featuring digital cameras and photo books; and “Document Solutions” representing Fuji Xerox multi-function devices and solution ervices. Fujifilm has become a corporate group reporting consolidated sales of ¥2.44 trillion, possessing a workforce of 79,000 and with 273 subsidiaries in 40 countries (as of the end of March 2014). We are indebted to the strong support and patronage of our many stakeholders.
In marking our 80th anniversary, we have engaged in 
exhaustive deliberations into the ideal image for the Fujifilm Group in order to achieve further growth and have decided to express our unified will 
in the new corporate slogan: “Value from Innovation.”
Supporting this corporate slogan is our brand statement 
which pledges our commitment to continuous innovation—creating new technologies, products and services that in-spire and excite people everywhere. Our goal is to empower the potential and expand the horizons of tomorrow’s busi-nesses and lifestyles. At the same time, it is a declaration that we ourselves will assemble knowledge and technology both within and outside our Group to create innovation.
Promoting Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) from a new perspective 
In May 2014, Fujifilm compiled and published our medium-
range CSR plan, the “Sustainable Value Plan 2016 (SVP 2016).” Under this plan, we commit to implementing CSR activities from the new perspectives of creating value for society and contributing to resolving social issues through products, services and technology as expressed in the new corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation.”
In the areas of environment, health, everyday living and 
work style, we plan to place priority on 11 social issues, including measures against global warming, greater access to medical services, building a safe and secure society and promoting diversity. By examining our products, services and technologies and daily business operations from the standpoints of creating value for society and contributing to resolving social issues, we believe that we will be able to identify what we can and what we must do to fulfill our mis-sion in society.
Needless to say, we will continue to direct our energies 
into reducing our impact on the environment and society, and comprehensive implementation of compliance at the same time. Especially in reducing CO
2 emissions, Fujifilm 
had announced in 2010 its long-term target to reduce CO 2 
emissions in the product lifecycle by 30% of the 2005 level by the year 2020, and we are continuing to work in concert in our activities to reduce emissions. In FY2013, emissions were reduced by 171,000 tons (3.5%) over 2012, achieving a reduction of 310,000 tons (6.2%) vis-à-vis the 2005 level. This is the result of groupwide efforts to achieve a reduction in CO
2 emissions and in costs through the development and 
promotion of products with a lower environmental impact, reductions in CO
2 emissions in our factories and offices, 
recycling raw materials and products, greater distribution ef-ficiency, and other measures.
These activities will be promoted further to achieve our 
2020 goal.
Contributing to building  
a sustainable society
According to a report recently published by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), “there is no doubt that the climate system is warming.” We can no longer afford to wait to implement measures to resolve global warming. In order to achieve the sustainable development that is the desire of all mankind, people and organizations must make their own efforts from their respective standpoints.
As a manufacturing business, Fujifilm’s role is to ad -
dress these issues with innovative products, services and technologies. SVP 2016 expresses our resolve to have all employees uphold the perspective of resolving social issues to create innovation.
The demands of society toward business enterprises 
change with time. We are now under scrutiny not only for our financial figures on sales, profits, etc., but also on how products and services that our business delivers are cre-ating value to society and contributing to resolving social issues. We do not intend to be satisfied with the status quo but will pay careful attention to global conditions, the awareness and ways of thinking of people and the chang-es in global trends. We will create innovation continually in all our business processes, including R&D, manufacturing and sales and staff operations to create new value for our customers and society and contribute to building a sus-tainable society.—Creating new value and  
contributing to solving social issues  as a global corporation—
August 2014
Shigetaka KomoriChairman and Chief Executive Officer
4 5 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 20142014
˔ Fuji/f_ilm Group
˔ Fuji/f_ilm˔ Fuji Xerox
Technologies & Products CSR
˔1934 [Corporate History]
Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd., established˔1962
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. established˔2006Established FUJIFILM Holdings 
Corporation, a Fuji/f_ilm Group holding company˔2008
TOYAMA CHEMICAL Co., Ltd. concluded 
strategic capital and business alliance with Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.Motion picture ﬁlmsQuickSnap
X-ray ﬁlmFCR
Fuji Xerox 914 F-II 400A colorFinePix 700
˔1936 Motion picture /f_ilm & 
plate-making /f_ilm
˔1936 X-ray /f_ilm
˔1948 Color reversal /f_ilm and still cameras˔1962 Established Fuji Xerox. The industry-/f_irst plain paper copier, Fuji Xerox 914
˔1965 Japan’s /f_irst computer magnet tape, PS plates (plate-making /f_ilm)
˔1976 World’s highest ISO 400 speed color negative /f_ilm, F-II 400
˔1978 A compact, high-speed and high-performance copy machine, Fuji Xerox 3500˔1983 World’s /f_irst digital X-ray system, FCR
˔1986 World’s /f_irst one-time-use recyclable camera, QuickSnap
˔1988 World’s /f_irst digital still camera, DS-1P
˔1992 Full-color digital copy machine, Acolor
˔1996 World’s /f_irst /f_ilm to widen LCD screen viewing-angle, WV Film
˔1998 World’s /f_irst consumer megapixel digital camera, FinePix 700
˔2001 High speed, high precision and space-saving multifunction device, Docu Centre Color 400CP˔2007 ASTALIFT, a new skincare series
˔2008 Full-scale operation of pharmaceutical business
˔2011 Highly sensitive 
immunochromatographic diagnostic system for in/f_luenza virus
˔2012 World’s /f_irst barium-ferrite 
magnetic tape, LTO Ultrium
ASTALIFTX100
LTO Ultrium
Established to produce 
motion picture ﬁlm in 
Japan. Successfully 
expanded the business to 
photographic and X-ray 
ﬁlm production.1934 –Business expanded into 
medical printing (X-ray diagnosis), 
electronic photographs, and 
magnetic materials by applying 
photographic ﬁlm 
production technology.1950–
Quickly adopted digital 
technology in photographic, 
medical, and printing 
businesses and successfully 
commercialized new 
products.1980–
Developed new 
businesses that widely 
contribute to society 
beyond the business 
area of “Image and 
Information.”2004–
WONDER PHOTO SHOP , FUJIFILM 
direct marketer, offers new photo entertainmentFUJIFILM FC1, the new generation portable diagnostic ultrasound system
Page 19
Open Innovation Hub to create new value with various business partners
Page 34
instax SHARE SP-1, printer for smart phones with instax mini /f_ilm
Page 23We continue our challenge to create innovative 
technologies, products, and services
˔1977 Established Fuji Xerox 
Co., Ltd. Setsutaro Kobayashi Memorial Fund for academic exchanges
˔1983 Fuji/f_ilm Green Fund public trust established˔2010 Set the product life cycle CO
2 reduction 
targets for 2020 (30% reduction compared to FY2005)
˔2011 Started the Photo Rescue Project
˔2012 Full operation of recycle systems in Korea, Australia, and New Zealand
˔2014 Enacted the Medium-Term CSR plan, 
Sustainable Development Plan 2016˔1989 Started support to produce large-font textbooks
˔1991 Completed micro/f_ilming 160,000 books from the Meiji period owned by National Diet Library
˔1996 Started incorporation of recycled parts to a production line with an aim to achieve zero-waste
˔1998 World’s /f_irst automated recycling and production factory for QuickSnap
˔1998 Labor Union started tree planting volunteers in China˔1999 Enacted the Fuji/f_ilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and of/f_icial Code of Conduct
˔2003 Started support for the Pink Ribbon campaign
˔2004 & 2008  International integrated recycling system 
started operation with recycling sites in Thailand and China
˔2005 Started PHOTO IS Exhibition by 10,000 People
˔2007 Overall revision of the Fuji/f_ilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and the Code of Conduct
Fujiﬁlm Green Fund Tree planting volunteers in China Recycling sites in Thailand Photo Rescue ProjectFujifilm Group’s 80 Years
Challenge “Innovation”—Responding to Varying Social Needs
6 7 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Healthcare Digital imaging Highly functional materials Document solutions
We are expanding our business into three 
major fields: prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. The business covers develop -
ment of advanced diagnostic equipment to help identify illness at an early stage, medical IT systems to efficiently utilize diagnoses, cosmetics and supplements for prevention, and pharmaceuticals to address unmet medical needs.We develop and sell photographic-related products, such as digital cameras, color paper for photo printing, and professional photo printers for stores. Our aim is to spread photographic culture to enrich people’s life by offering cameras and photo printing imbued with high quality and added value.
●Electronic imaging
(digital cameras)
●Photo imaging
(photographic films, photo books, and 
film processing/printing services)●Flat panel display materials  
(film materials for LCDs)
●Industrial materials and electronic materials 
(non-destructive testing equipments 
and semiconductor processing materials)●Office products and office printers
●Production services
(digital printing systems)
●Global services
(solution proposals through company 
document and business process 
improvement)We offer various highly functional ma -
terials that apply advanced technolo -
gies acquired through photographic 
film production. Including protective film for polarizers—indispensable for LCD monitors—we are working to de -
velop new materials that contribute to environmental impact reduction and new energy generation.Our document solutions business covers a variety of formats, from elec -
tronic data to paper. We offer office equipment along with solutions and services to solve increasingly complex and diverse business and manage -
ment problems, and also to address environmental issues through saving both energy and resources.Optical devices
●Optical devices
(camera modules for smartphones, 
TV camera lenses/cine lenses and lenses for security cameras)Utilizing our expert technologies, we 
provide high precision lenses for a range of purposes. Realizing images that boast high resolution, high quality, and high definition, our lenses are uti -
lized in TV cameras, satellites, and se -
curity cameras used in ports, airports, and other facilities.Graphic systems
●Materials and equipment for 
graphic arts 
(CTP plates)
●Industrial inkjet printers and inksSoon after the company’s foundation, we 
started the development of printing equip -
ment and materials. We now hold the world’s top share of the Computer to Plate (CTP) plates for offset printing with low environmental impact. We are branching out into a variety of areas, such as profes -
sional digital printing that is suitable for small-lot and many different printing.Digital
imaging
Optical
devicesGraphic
systemsDocument
solutionsHighly
functional
materialsHealthcareBusiness ﬁelds in which 
we can exert our technological strengths and offer high added value
Business ﬁelds
in which social
demand is strong
and high growth
can be expectedThe Fujifilm Group’s Business
FUJIFILM Middle East FZEFUJIFILM Europe GmbH
FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
Fuji Xerox (China) Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. FUJIFILM Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd.
Fuji Xerox Australia Pty. Ltd.FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation
FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda.25  companies
6 companies
61  companies51  companiesEurope Area
North America Area
Latin America Area Middle East/Africa Area
Asia Paciﬁc AreaChina/Hong Kong/Taiwan/Korea Area
41  companies
3 companies
The Fujifilm Group regards the following six businesses as its priority business fields: digital im -
aging, healthcare, highly functional materials, graphic systems, optical devices, and document 
solutions. These are fields in which we can demonstrate our strengths in terms of technology and market position. These fields are also in high social demand, and, therefore, we can expect high growth. 
Health, energy, and information are the key social elements today to support a sustain -
able society, and there are many related issues to be addressed. Our healthcare, highly func -
tional materials, and document solutions businesses are closely linked to these elements—which is why we have positioned these three businesses as core businesses to drive our overall enterprise.As a global company with 273 consolidated companies inside and outside Japan, we are ex -
panding our business in many countries and regions across the world. Not only our sales net -
works but also our production systems are globalized with factories in the Netherlands, the U.S., China, and several other countries. Businesses expansion is also accelerating in the rapidly growing emerging countries, including BRICs, Turkey, Middle East, and Southeast Asia. ■Overseas   As of March 31, 2014
●Medical systems
(X-ray diagnostic imaging systems, 
endoscopes, etc.)
●Pharmaceuticals
(low-molecular pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals)
●Life sciences
(functional cosmetics and supplement products)
8 9 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014
We will use leading-edge, proprietary technologies to provide top-
quality products and services that contribute to the advancement of culture, science, technology and industry, as well as improved health and environmental protection in society. Our overarching aim is to help enhance the quality of life of people worldwide.
We will create new values by integrating our distinctive and leading-edge technologies as well as developing proprietary technologies to continue providing top-quality products and services that cultivate customer trust and satisfaction. 
Through these efforts we will transcend existing boundaries of “Imaging 
and Information” to advance the development of culture, science, technol -
ogy and industry across society and furthermore improve human health and protect the environment.
Our new corporate philosophy is based on the recognition that our mis -
sion, through our sustained corporate activities, is to significantly contribute to the realization of a society in which all people across the world can lead lives that are abundant in spiritual as well as material wealth with a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction.1. A Trusted Company
We develop and provide socially beneficial products and services of the highest quality using advanced and original technologies in a safe and responsible manner. Based on an open, fair and clear corporate climate, we create new values in a spirit of appropriate competition and fair dealing, con -
tinually striving to earn the trust and satisfaction of customers and other stakeholders.
2. Social Responsibility
We communicate with customers, local communities, share -
holders and other members of society, conduct appropriate and fair disclosure of corporate information, comply with laws, regulations, and other rules, and uphold public order and morals. As good corporate citizens, we strive to correctly understand and respect local cultures and customs and to actively engage in public interest activities, especially those 
that contribute to local community development.3. Respect for Human Rights
We respect and protect fundamental human and labor rights 
set out in international declarations. We reject the use of 
forced labor or child labor in any form.
4. Global Environmental Conservation
Recognizing that positive involvement in the resolution of 
environmental issues is an essential part of a corporation’s social role and activities, we act voluntarily and proactively to 
help preserve the global environment.
5. Vibrant Workplaces
We strive to develop the skills of all employees, to provide 
safe and comfortable workplaces, and to respect diversity, individuality and differences.
Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior (full text)
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/philosophy/conduct/index.htmlAnchored by an open, fair and clear corpo -
rate culture and with leading-edge, propri -
etary technologies, Fujifilm is determined to remain a leading company by boldly taking up the challenge of developing new products and creating new values.
We will create an open, fair and clear workplace culture that allows us to discern objective facts in a sincere and straightforward manner, make rational decisions, and continuously take on challenges with courage.
With this corporate culture, we will further hone 
our leading-edge, proprietary technologies and develop innovative products and services that gain customer trust and provide satisfaction to remain a vigorous company, consistently creating new value and exercising pioneering leadership.Corporate Philosophy Vision Charter for Corporate BehaviorThe Roots of CSR Are the Trust of Stakeholders and Consideration for the Environment
The Fujifilm Group’s business originated with photographic film, a product for which lots of clean water and fresh 
air are essential to the manufacturing process. It is also a product which requires customers to “buy on trust,” since they cannot try it out beforehand. Thus, for the Fujifilm Group, an approach which emphasizes environmen -
tal conservation and maintaining the trust of stakeholders has been a major premise at the very foundations of our business activities. This approach is the starting point for our corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities and continues to be passed down within our group, as the Fujifilm Group’s “DNA.” 
Following the shift to a holding company structure in 2006, we established a brand new Corporate 
Philosophy and Vision. Based on these concepts, we also enacted the Charter for Corporate Behavior and an official Code of Conduct that cover every one of our group companies. All of these philosophies and rules are now thoroughly implemented across the group. In the Charter for Corporate Behavior, we uphold five principles, including “Respect for Human Rights,” while in the Code of Conduct we define compliance as “more than simply not breaking the law and acting correctly in the light of common sense and ethics,” and declare that all Group employees, including senior executives, will conduct themselves in line with these action guidelines.
Moreover we have made the following statement to encourage all Fujifilm Group employees to commit them -
selves to the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in their daily business operations: The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to corporate social responsibility is to contribute to the sustainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.
In 2013, we revised the Approach to CSR in order to identify the social challenges and more actively seek 
their solutions under the new corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation,” established to coincide with our 80th an -
niversary. We will follow this new approach and slogan in further promoting our CSR activities.The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR
The Fujifilm Group’s approach to corporate social responsibility is to contribute to the sustainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.
We will not only fulfill our economic and legal responsibilities, 
but also:
1. endeavor to understand global as well as local environmental and social issues and 
create value to address these issues through our business activities.
2. continue to evaluate the environmental and social impact of our business activities and 
strive to improve the performance while increasing our positive impact on society.
3. constantly reassess whether our activities are responding adequately to the demands 
and expectations of society through proactive stakeholder engagement with our 
stakeholders.
4. enhance corporate transparency by actively disclosing information.Fujifilm Group’s Corporate  
Social Responsibility (CSR)
FUJIFILM Ashigara site 
located in an environment blessed with copious clean air and water, and its water source and water conservation forestEthical conduct on the basis of the rules for Corporate BehaviorConsidering society
and the environmentin our business processesSolving social issues
through our
business activities
[Corporate Philosophy ]
Sustainable
Society
Creating new valueNew Corporate Slogan
FUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016[Medium-Term CSR Plan ]Creating new technologies, products and services
that inspire and excite people everywhere to empower
the potential and expand the horizons of
tomorrow’s businesses and lifestyles■The Fujifilm Group’s  
Approach to CSR
10 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 11 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014
According to the latest report from the 
United Nation Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), it is likely that tem -
peratures will rise by approximately 4°C by 2100 if no additional anti-global warming 
measures are taken and emissions continue to rise. In ad -
dition to global warming and other increasing environmen -
tal problems, social issues, such as human rights issues and social disparity, are becoming ever more serious. This in turn drives society to expect global corporations with greater influential power to take actions towards resolving such issues. 
At the same time, corporations are changing their 
approach to CSR by taking the initiative in identifying and solving social issues as an opportunity for their renewed growth, rather than simply reacting to regulations and re -
quests. Thus, the relationship between CSR and business activities is becoming closer than ever.Since the Fujifilm Group’s first Medium-Term CSR Plan was created in 2007, im -
mediately after FUJIFILM Holdings was es -
tablished, we have promoted CSR activities in a systematic manner. This latest plan—
our third—reflects the idea of “Contributing to solving so -
cial issues through products, services, and technologies.” We enhance collaboration between our business activities and social issues under the heightened expectation for the global companies to solve the worsening environmen -
tal and social issues. By this reflection, we embody our CSR Approach, “to contribute to the sustainable develop -
ment of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.” 
We will address 11 social issues in the four priority 
areas we have selected—Environment, Health, Daily Life, and Working Style—through our innovative technologies, products, and services. We continue to tackle environ -
mental issues in the business processes, which have al -
ways featured as a part of our CSR activities. We are also further reinforcing and expanding the CSR framework that supports our business activities across the value chain and throughout the world. 
The Fujifilm Group aims to be a company that con -
tributes to “the sustainable development of society” by actively creating “new values” to resolve the various social issues that we face. Under the corporate slogan, “Value from Innovation,” established to coincide with our 80th anniver -
sary, the Fujifilm Group has created a new Medium-Term CSR Plan covering FY2014 to FY2016, titled, 
“Sustainable Value Plan 2016” (SVP 2016), and commenced work on its implementation. 
Through this plan, we are actively putting our Approach to CSR into practice: “to contribute to the 
sustainable development of society by putting our Corporate Philosophy into practice through sincere and fair business activities.”
FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Part
1In Creating a New Medium-Term CSR PlanSolving social issues through business activelyFUJIFILM Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Conscious on environmental and social impact
within business processesEnvironmentHealth Daily Life
Working
StylePromotion
policy1
Promotionpolicy2Promotionpolicy3Contribute to solving social 
issues concerning the 
environment, people’s health, 
daily life, and working style 
through our products and 
services.
Solve environmental issues within 
business processes actively.Enhance the CSR framework 
supporting the corporate 
activities across the value chain.1. Promote communications 
that transcend the information barrier
2. Promote diversity1. Improve accessibility to medical services
2. Contribute to identifying diseases at an 
early stage
3. Response unmet medical needs4. Promotion of health and contribution to 
beauty1. Contribute to creating a safe and 
secure society
2. Contribute to enriching humanity 
and relationships
1. Global warming 
countermeasures 
2. Response to water problems3. Response to energy issues
1. Promote global warming 
countermeasures
2. Promote resource recycling3. Ensure product and chemical safety1. Raise compliance awareness and 
ensure risk management
2. Develop and utilize diverse human 
resources (TBD)
3. Enhance value chain management 
from the viewpoint of CSRSocial 
Back-
groundBasic  
Approach
12 13 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014The latest Medium-Term CSR Plan clarified the focus of our CSR activities by reviewing previous CSR activities and 
investigating trends in society and other companies’ activities. In addition to continuation and reinforcement of the existing CSR activities, “Exhaustive governance and compliance and reduction of impact on environment and society” and “Keeping an extended view across the value chain, life cycle, and world-wide,” we have made it clear in the Basic Policies that we will expand the scope of “Actively aim to solve social issues through our business activities,” which was already in operation.
In extracting the social and environmental issues to address, we listed 130 items based on ISO 26000 (international 
guidelines for social responsibility of business and organizations), the GRI Guidelines (international sustainability re -
porting guidelines), and the primary issues faced by other companies in the same industry and corporations with ad -
vanced CSR practices.
Also, we discussed the possibility of contribution to solving social issues among all business divisions, and clari -
fied the possible products, services, and technologies by each division. 
As it is difficult to evaluate materiality of both 
“measures to solve social issues through busi -
ness” and “conscious on environmental and social impact” in the same manner, we took two approaches for evaluation.
(1)   Solving social issues through business 
actively
We created a matrix of social issues and our prod -
ucts, services, and technologies that may con -
tribute to solving such issues through discussions with our business divisions. Next, the size of po -
tential contribution as well as the size of impact on society, were assessed to indentify the four areas and 11 issues to be given priority. We set a goal for each priority issues. The environmental and HR divisions of operating companies which promote each priority issue played a central role to quantify their goals by looking back over its activities. Priority issues and Medium-Term CSR Plan were discussed and formulated at the CSR Committee chaired by the President of FUJIFILM Holdings. We will now fur -
ther our activities throughout the Group towards achievement of the Medium-Term CSR Plan.(2)   Conscious on environmental and social 
impact within business processes
The social issues extracted in the above Step 2 were rated with two axes; the social point of view and our corporate point of view. For evaluation, E-Square Inc., an expert CSR consulting compa -
ny helped us as a representative of society. The social point of view rates how important society believes the resolution of the issues and what is expected of the Fujifilm Group in this regard. Our corporate point of view rates how much the ef -
fort to solve the issues would affect our business strategy, brands, and reputation. The material -
ity rated on a five-level scale, and issues rated level four or greater in both points of view were grouped together by proximity. Finally, they were reviewed as suitable expressions and set as the priority issues. Discussions about creating the Medium-Term CSR Plan were made over the following four steps. In the 
step to evaluate the importance of the issues to be covered, the social impact, scale of our potential contribution, and the impact on our business were all considered with the help of an external expert. The Policies also feature quantified targets to the maximum extent possible.
FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Part
2Creating the Triple Promotion Policy
Clarifying the Basic Policies
Extracting Social Issues Based on Business Strategy
Evaluation of Materiality1
2
34STEP
STEP
STEPSTEP
FY2007-2009 FY2010-2013 FY2014-2016Medium-Term
CSR PlanMedium-Term
CSR PlanNew Medium-Term
CSR Plan
Priority issues
(Legal compliance and taking responsibility as a corporate citizen)
Expand the scopeContinue & reinforce
Maintain & reinforce
Company-wide efforts Expand the scope˔ Solve social issues through business activities 
actively˔ Across the value chain, product lifecycles, and world-wide˔ Thorough implementation of sound corporate governance and compliance
˔ Reduction of impact on environment and society
Priority issue 1    Raise compliance awareness and ensure risk 
management
Targets: (1)   Maintain 100% awareness of major risks and full-scale 
performance of awareness-raising schemes 
 (2)   Ensure offering health promotion opportunities to employees
 (3)   Be aware of risk of human right issues across the Fujifilm 
Group
Priority issue 2    Develop and utilize diverse human resources (TBD)
Target:   Build a working environment with diversity*1 that enable all 
workers*2 to exert their individuality
Priority issue 3    Enhance value chain management from the view-
point of CSR
Targets: (1)   Identify the CSR status of major suppliers and notify FH’s 
expectation and improvement requirements
 (2)   Ensure compliance with legislation concerning biodiversity in 
procurement
*1:   Create systems to develop human resources and utilize them to the most suitable 
positions
*2:   Domestic and foreign workers, and female, elderly, or disabled employees Promotion
policy3Promotionpolicy1Contribute to solving social issues 
concerning the environment, people’s health, daily life, and working style  through our products and services.
Priority issue 1  Promote global warming countermeasures
Target:   Reduce CO 2 emissions from the entire product lifecycle by 30% 
compared to FY2005 by FY2020 (FY2016 Medium-Term Target 
10% reduction)
Priority issue 2  Promote resource recycling
Targets: (1)   Reduce volume of waste generated by 8% compared to 
FY2012 by FY2016 
 (2)   Reduce material input per unit by 10% compared to FY2012 
by FY2020 (Create an input control system by FY2016, such as setting indices per unit and verifying the efficacy)
 (3)   Maintain water usage per sales (water input per unit) at 
FY2012 levels.
Priority issue 3  Ensure product and chemical safety
Target:   Contribute to “Minimization of adverse effect to environment 
and human health from chemical substances in production and usage by FY2020”Promotionpolicy2Solve environmental issues within business 
processes actively. Enhance the CSR framework  supporting the corporate activities  across the value chain.Planning, Review, and  
ApprovalMateriality Mapping for Extracting Priority Issues
5
4
3
2
1
1 2 3 4 5
Promotion 1 related items Promotion 3 related items OthersMateriality for Fuji/f_ilm Group
Promotion 2 related itemsSocial interests and requests
Social IssueFujiﬁlm Group’s Products,
Services, and Technologies
Aging society,
increased medical
costs, etc.Safety & security
relationships,
loss of life
ful/f_illment, etc. 
Global warming,
exhaustion of
resources, etc.Working disparity,
reduction in
workforce, etc.
EnvironmentHealth Daily Life
Targets
Working
Stylep. 22
Targetsp. 25Targetsp. 18
Targetsp. 16
Matrix on Social Issues and Fujifilm Group’s Products, Services, 
and Technologies
Business fields Social issues Medical PharmaceuticalsHighly 
functional 
materialsDocument 
solution・・・・
EnvironmentReduce CO 2 emissions ●● ●●●●● ●●●●
Energy issues ● ●●● ●●●
・・・・・・ ●● ●
Energy issues ● ●●
・・・・・・ ● ●●
HealthImprove accessibility to medical services●●●●● ●●
Identify diseases at an early stage ●●●●●
・・・・・・ ●●●
Reduce doctor’s burden ●●
・・・・・・ ● ● ●
Daily LifeEnrich humanity and relationships ●● ●●●●
Create a safe and secure society ●●● ● ●
・・・・・・ ● ●
・・・・・・ ●
Working stylesPromote communications ●●●
Promote diversity ●● ●
・・・・・・ ●
・・・・・・
14 15 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Priority issue 1  Global warming countermeasures
Target: Reduce CO 2 emissions by 20 million tons by 2020 (compared to 2005)
Priority issue 2  Response to water problems
Target: Reduction and restriction of water pollution
Priority issue 3  Response to energy issues
Target: Contribute to generating energy with low environmental impact
According to the latest report from the United Nation Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 
it is likely that temperatures will increase by approximately 4°C by 2100 without additional mitigation and CO
2 emissions continue to rise. Global warming is becoming ever more serious and remains as 
one of the most important issues to address across the world. The water risk is another serious issue in focus. The Fujifilm Group aims to help resolve these environmental challenges through changing our working styles and products towards low environmental impact, including highly functional materials and magnetic tape utilizing applied photographic film development and production technologies.FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Business Activities
Business Activities
EnvironmentPart
3
Environmental solution materials 
based on photographic film development technologiesPriority 
issue
1Priority 
issue
2
Fujifilm has created a series of new highly functional materials by combining fun -
damental technologies based on photographic film development and other ex -
clusive technologies. Uniting the company’s engineering prowess, we are devel -
oping a range of products to help in solving deepening environmental problems.
Photovoltaic backsheet extends photovoltaic module’s 
life by three times
Because photovoltaic modules are installed in an outdoor location, structural 
damage from heat, UV light, and weather can cause their power generation ef -
ficiency to deteriorate. Photovoltaic backsheets cover the rear of the modules and protect them, and are an important component that determines the mod -
ule’s life. Therefore, the backsheet is required to be durable and to retain its high performance over a prolonged period.  
Fujifilm has developed a special water-resistant PET film by adopting pho -
tographic film manufacturing* and other technologies, thereby achieving excel -
lent durability. Additionally applying a highly functional material with precision coating technology, the product has now achieved three times more durability than conventional products. This photovoltaic backsheet was introduced to the market in 2012 with the aim of furthering the use of photovoltaic modules, which are increasingly in demand against the backdrop of global warming and resource exhaustion.
Ion exchange membrane supports efficient water usage
We are developing ion exchange membranes and extending their environmen -
tal usage, such as for desalination and water treatment. Ion exchange mem -
branes selectively allow ions to permeate through them. Using this selective permeability, the membrane is used to soften water, extract salt from seawa -
ter, and produce ultrapure water. The membrane is being used as a filter for drinking water in Europe and the U.S., where water is often hard. Ion exchange resin is another commonly used exchanger but requires regular maintenance using chemicals or salt to recover resin performance, which gradually deterio -
rates due to ion absorption. Thus, the demand for ion exchange membranes that require less maintenance and with lower cost is increasing. We are further expanding membrane development as a part of our water problem solutions.“Sustainable working style” to realize eco, 
quality of life, and efficiencyPriority 
issue
1
CO2 emissions related with office work in Japan are increas -
ing, rather than decreasing, due to the continuing increase of OA equipment. This has become an urgent issue to be ad -
dressed. Fuji Xerox is working towards a target of reducing CO
2 emissions at customers by seven million tons per an -
num by FY2020. The priority issues to achieve this target are the provision of products with the least possible environmental impact for our customers, and the provision of solutions and services that enable low-carbon working styles. 
There are two ways to contribute to environ -
mental impact reduction in offices. One is a direct contribution by reducing the consumption of fuel, electricity, paper, etc., and the other is an indirect contribution by reducing working hours and space. Pursuing both of these is effective in achieving office energy conservation. Fuji Xerox understands that the key to fulfilling these two modes of contribution is to streamline any office activities that generate CO
2. Based on this idea, we offer Eco Solutions 
to reduce energy, resources, and the workforce, simultaneously realizing “eco” for the global envi-ronment, “quality of life” for staff, and “efficiency” in business. In FY2013, we undertook a survey to understand and analyze concrete CO
2 emissions reduction effects in customer sites through our solutions. We also produced the Green Solution Handbook  that summa -
rizes our solutions to promote customer understanding and awareness. 
We will further promote and disseminate our solutions in 
order to achieve our targets by 2020. 
Membrane allows either cations or anions to permeate 
through it. These two types of membranes are combined in actual use.Present 2050% % 30 80
Source: Working Group III Fifth Assessment 
Report, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Share of low-carbon energy 
in electricity supply
Global warming raises atmospheric and water temperatures change, negative im-pact on water resources and ecosystems, and serious damages to human society. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions, one cause of global warming, is now a common challenge across the world. Energy saving, power generation from non-carbon sources, and promotion of low-carbon energy are said that the key solutions. 
Gas Separation Membrane separates  
CO2 efficiently with low energyPriority 
issue
3
Along with CO 2 emissions reduction, the energy resource 
exhaustion problem is one the most pressing environmental 
issues. Ways to use natural energy efficiently to prolong its availability are being vigorously sought.
The Gas Separation Membrane module that Fujifilm is 
developing is being used to remove the CO
2 contained in the 
natural gas. Natural gas contains CO 2 and other impurities 
and gas refinement through a complicated procedure is nec -
essary to use the gas as clean energy. Chemical or physical absorption processes are currently used to remove CO
2 from 
natural gas. However, these methods require a large facility, consuming a great amounts of energy, and this in turn makes the high CO
2 separation costs a problem. The membrane 
separation process removes CO 2 from the mixed gas by uti -
lizing the different permeability rates of each gas. Compared to the previous methods, the membrane separation process can drastically reduce both energy consumption and separa -
tion costs as it only requires a small facility. Utilizing Fujifilm’s core technologies—polymer technology and precision coating technology, our CO
2 separation membranes are produced as 
a nano membrane structure, delivering highly efficient separa -
tion performance. More efficient CO 2 separation processing 
at a lower cost can accelerate the development of natural gas fields in the small-to-medium scale, which are currently mark -
ing time due to the cost issue—despite the possibility of high reserves.
Fujifilm has already started experimental use of the 
membrane in overseas gas fields in preparation for future commercialization.Hydrolysis resistant PETPrimer layer for adhesion with EVA
Fluoride resistant ﬁlmCommercial PETPrimer layer for adhesion with EVA
Adhesive
Adhesive
Fujiﬁlm’s coating backsheet Conventional laminated backsheetFluoride resin coating layer
Utilize selective
permeabilityCation
exchange
membrane
AnodeCathodeAnion
exchange
membraneWater softening
Manufacture of salt
from seawater
Manufacture of
ultrapure waterIon exchange membranesʷ
ʷ



FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014* In order to improve hydrolysis-resistance performance, a 
special PET resin is polymerized. We have developed our 
own technology for manufacturing film without allowing decomposition.▼Average CO 2 Emission from Office in Japan and Our Eco Solutions
Sample CO 2 Emissions Reduction by Typical Solution [ArcEPS]
ArcEPS can output a series of documents in different formats, 
e.g. designs and technical sheets, as a batch. ArcEPS can reduce CO
2 emissions by reducing paper use and transpor-
tation through optimum-designed document distribution.˔Model user: Design production site with 500 to 
1,000 employees
˔Document destinations: ﬁve on-site depts. & four 
external sites
˔No. of documents: 890K sheets/year (A4 equiv.)
˰ Reduces CO 2 emissions by 24.9%Energy saving solutions
˔Paper usage reduction etc.
Transport saving solutions
˔Telephone conferencing
˔Home working
˔Mobile working etc.
IT optimization solutions
˔Device & server rationalization
˔Device layout optimization
˔Device power control etc.Visualization solutions
Time saving solutions
˔Working hours reduction
˔Meeting time reduction
˔Search time reduction etc.˔CO2 emissions visualization
˔Resource usage visualization  
Space saving solutions
˔Electronic document management
˔Paper document storage reductionEnergy consumption in the buildings Energy consumption for transportation Resource used
Estimation of average CO 2 emission from ofﬁce in Japan (50 employees)
Source: “Eco design 2008 Japan symposium” presentation data summaryResource disposal
136.5
t-CO 2/Year*Scope: Energy consumption for 
  entire ofﬁceAir
conditioner
30.2
Lighting
14.8 Electric
sockets
(PCs etc.)
13.3Car use(for commuting)
10.1Car use(for working)Paper etc. 1.8
Others 3.0OA paper 1.2
Car 1.6
2.2 IT devices
etc.
11.3
Others(common parts)
9.0
Electric sockets 
(MF, fax, etc.) 3.0
High
Pressure
LowGas & PressureCH4
Separation membrane CO2
The partial pressure difference across the membrane causes gas permeation 
while allowing only the target gas across.
Front glass
Silicon CellBacksheet
16 17 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Priority issue 1  Improve accessibility to medical services
Targets: (1) Improve the medical environment in emerging countries
(2) Increase medical check opportunities in disaster or emergency situations and 
improve diagnostic accuracy
(3) Increase the medical check opportunities and improve diagnostic accuracy by 
reducing the burdens on doctors
Priority issue 2  Contribute to identifying diseases at an early stage
Target:   Disseminate medical diagnosis systems with improved accuracy and less physical 
burden on patients
Priority issue 3  Response unmet medical needs
Target: Develop medicines for diseases without effective treatments
Priority issue 4  Promotion of health and contribution to beauty
Target: Develop medicines for diseases without effective treatments
Health is the most personal and important topic for people, yet there is a range of associated problems, such 
as disparities in medical access, shortage of doctors, increasing burden on medical workers, and surging medi-cal costs. The Fujifilm Group started producing X-ray film in 1936, soon after the company’s establishment. Since then we have been a long-term contributor in the field of medical diagnosis. Our medical business has recently expanded into the Prevention and Treatment fields, as a part of a strategic move towards the group’s growth. We are continuously striving to widen our contribution to promoting people’s health and welfare. In this new CSR Plan, we set out four priority issues based on the scale of our contribution to help solving the social challenges, identified through reviewing all the products, services, and technologies that we possess.FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Supporting healthcare worker training in 
emerging countries for better medical services
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Business Activities
Business Activities
HealthPart
3
Priority 
issue
1
The Fujifilm Group understands that advancement in medical tech -
niques is as equally important as the provision of medical products 
in order to improve medical circumstances in emerging countries. This is why we undertake a range of support activities in countries in the Middle East and Africa. In Jordan, we helped establish a radi -
ologist training program lead by a national hospital to improve their interpretation techniques. This has since expanded into a major pro -
gram, enjoying the attendance of specialists from the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iraq, and other countries in 2013. In the U.A.E., we have established a continuing mammogram analysis skills training program, and we also run similar programs in Ghana and Tanzania. 
In July 2013, we opened a training center in Dubai, U.A.E, for 
sales engineers working at authorized dealers in the Middle East. This helped engineers in the Middle East and African region to receive training locally, reducing the necessity to travel to Europe for such training. The center covers a wide range of radiography training, from operation skills for X-Ray imaging systems—including textbook study and hands-on sessions depending on the engi -
neers’ skills, to advanced skills, such as application software train -
ing for better diagnosis, positioning of patients when taking X-ray images, image processing techniques, and tips for achieving high quality images using low levels of radiation. By providing the engi -
neers in each country with such high standards of knowledge, they become able to setup the devices by themselves, offer high quality after-sales services, and provide support for accurate image inter -
pretation. Fujifilm continues to contribute to improving the medical environment in emerging countries by making advanced medical equipment available and by propagating operational techniques and knowledge of a high standard.FUJI DRI-CHEM IMMUNO AG1’s easy operation 
and quick results advanced virus detection using photographic silver amplification technology
Through catalytic accumulation of silver around gold 
particles of only 50 nm, the conventional virus marker, Fujifilm managed to increase the marker size 100 times within one minute, enabling easier virus detectionPortable diagnostic ultrasound system  
serves in emergencies across the world
Virus detector with amplification  
technology catches early stage fluPriority 
issue
1
Priority 
issue
2The mission of medical workers in an emergency situation is to help save as many peo -
ple’s lives as possible making the best use of limited facilities, manpower, and time. As 
a medical equipment manufacturer, we questioned ourselves as to how we could best serve in an emergency. One of the answers was delivering this portable diagnostic ultra -
sound system. 
In November 2013, a typhoon hit the central Philippines leaving the town of Tanauan 
devastated. Along with FUJIFILM SonoSite Inc. (U.S.), FUJIFILM Philippines Inc. (FFPH) offered a portable diagnostic ultrasound system, M-Turbo, to a U.S. healthcare NPO, Mammoth Medical Missions, to support their initial rescue efforts in Tanauan. M-Turbo was quickly brought in by helicopter to the rescue center when there was no other medical equipment, and it functioned throughout the five-day rescue period using only solar power. It was moved around the center to help in diagnoses of different parts of the body—from chest, abdomen, bones, to blood vessels. “The beauty of this portable diagnostic ultrasound system was its mobility, ease of use, durability, and the wide ap -
plication requirements involved in disaster rescue activities. The system’s agility and precise imaging capabilities helped us to provide the most appropriate treatment to save people’s lives. Its cost performance is also incomparably high, especially for an NPO with limited funds.” (Dr. Sara May, a medical specialist who participated in the rescue mission.)
After launching FUJIFILM FC1, a new model with improved image quality, oper -
ability, and durability, in May 2014, Fujifilm will not cease in work to further widen the device’s functionality and application—not only in emergency situations but also for doc -
tors’ home visits. 
The prime flu sufferers are children and the elderly. Swift treatment is particularly important for infants with low resistance to the disease. However, conventional flu virus checks face a problem that the virus can only be detected after it reaches a certain size and virus identification is rather difficult. FUJI DRI-CHEM IMMUNO AG1 is a virus detector based on Fujifilm’s silver amplification technology, which is used in photographic film development. The flu virus is detected by a gold colloid particle marker and we managed to create a silver particle marker of a larger size using the gold marker as a catalyst, providing improved visibility of the virus at an early stage while its number is still small. Also, this visual recognition is carried out automatically by the machine, eliminating human error caused by varying skill levels. 
Because FUJI DRI-CHEM can easily be operated by people with different 
skills and its test results are automatically presented, it can be widely used in emerging countries as a Point-of-Care Testing (POCT)
* device. In Japan, death 
from infection has been drastically reduced by medical advancements. Still, how -
ever, Asian and African countries face high infection and death rates, particularly among infants. We hope that FUJI DRI-CHEM will help in the early detection of this illness throughout the world. 
* Point-of-Care Testing (POCT): Simple medical testing at or near the site of patient care, 
such as a treatment room, ICU, and bedside.FUJIFILM FC1, the next 
generation portable diagnostic ultrasound system jointly developed & sold by Fujifilm and FUJIFILM SonoSite2012 20 years latermillion
peoplemillion
people
1422
Source: World Cancer Report 2014, World 
Health Organization (WHO)Estimated cancer onset
across the world
Despite continuously advancing medical care, many illnesses still have no defini-tive treatment. For example, the cancer death rate is increasing across the world and the number of patients is growing ever larger, particularly in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. There is a desperate need for early diagnosis and treatment of diseases in emerging countries, in addition to finding effective treatments.Dr. Sara May (middle), a medical specialist of 
Mammoth Medical Missions and FFPH staff members
Used for various diagnoses for thoracic cavity, 
abdominal cavity, bone, and blood vessel. Prenatal checks, as shown in this photo.
KTT (Knowledge Transfer Training 2013) in Dubai with 75 attendants from 19 Middle Eastern and African countriesIn the Dubai training center, application software training with advanced knowledge by specialists form FUJIFILM Middle East FZE is availableUsing X-ray diagnostic imaging systems in Africa
Conventional methodBy approx. 100x
Silver
Amplification method
18 19 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
FUJIFILM’s FF-10501 (Anticancer 
drug (myelodysplastic syndrome)), FF-10502 (Anticancer drug (refractory solid cancer)), and FF-21101 (Anticancer drug (refractory solid cancer) (armed antibody)) are now at the clinical trial stage. In March 2014, Toyama Chemical received new drug application approval in Japan for AVIGAN
® 
Tablet 200mg (T-705), a new, tablet-form anti-influenza drug. T-817MA (Alzheimer’s disease drug) started its Phase II clinical trials in Japan at the end of May 2014. Fujifilm’s image recognition technology enabled creation of 3D images from 2D images of CT or MRI. High precision pre-surgery simulation images—even removing bones from the view—can be created by exclusive image processing and analysis technologies. This shortens the surgery time and improves accuracy, reducing the patients’ physical burden. Since its launch in 2008, VINCENT has been installed in nearly 1,000 facilities in Japan.By connecting local clinics and major hospitals, the system delivers ideal work-sharing between hospitals and clinics. Since 2005, Saitama National Hospital and local clinics have been operating the 24-hour booking system for imaging diagnosis and home visits by specialists. Now the system connects 85 major hospitals and 1,300 smaller hospitals and clinics across Japan.Clinical trial networks help  
faster drug development
Aiming at new drug development for cancer  
by addressing “unmet medical needs”Priority 
issue
1
Priority 
issue
3Fuji Xerox is utilizing its solution expertise in document man -
agement—regardless of paper or electronics—in the healthcare 
field. The company offers efficient and effective information sharing and communication through networking within the healthcare industry by integrating diverse medical records. This is because we believe that close communications among medical institutions is indispensable for realizing better medical services and comprehensive regional care. One of the best ap -
plications of such networking concerns clinical trial procedures.
A clinical trial is the research study of drugs or medical 
equipment before they can be commercialized. The clinical trial requires cooperation from a number of patients, as well as massive time and effort. The development of drugs can be held back if the subjects do not reach a certain number, and this is particularly true for pediatric medicines. Against this backdrop, Fuji Xerox has developed networks and a document management system to enable efficient clinical trials being car-ried out in multiple hospitals. Our system is utilized in Clinical Trial Networks, a group of contracted medical institutions where trials are held, formed to speed up drug development. From 2014, we also started the experimental use of a clinical trial network system for local hospitals. We continue to strive for faster drug development and improved drug quality.
Although a range of diseases have become treatable thanks to the advancement of medical technologies, some diseases, such as cancer and Alzheimer’s Disease, lack fundamental treatment, and, therefore, new drugs are desperately being sought. However, new drug development is subject to a high degree of complexity and risk because its success rate is less than 10%, despite the lengthy development period of 10 years on average. Thus, only a limited number of corporations can develop drugs on a continuing basis.
The Fujifilm Group possesses diverse technologies, in -
cluding cutting-edge chemical technology developed through photographic materials development, such as synthesis, analysis, nano-dispersion technologies, as well as radiophar -
maceutical, biopharmaceutical, and regenerative medicines. Utilizing our extensive range of expertise and novel ideas derived from these varied business backgrounds, we aim to develop new drugs, mainly for cancer treatment, which has an extremely high social demand. We maintain our contribution to improving medical services across the world by delivering new drugs as early as possible through accelerating development via collaborations with external organizations*. 
*Collaboration with external organizations
T-817MA : Commenced a joint clinical trial with the Alzheimer's 
Disease Cooperative Study, one of the largest Alzheimer's disease re -
search institutes in the U.S. in June 2014. Commenced a joint research 
with Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, in March 2014. 
FF-10501, FF-10502, FF-21101 : In 2014, will commence to start joint 
clinical development of a cancer drug with the University of Texas: MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, a world-class cancer research and treat -
ment institution. Since the launch of the digital X-ray imaging system FCR in 
1983, Fujifilm has been leading digitalization in medical servic -
es. In 1999, we developed SYNAPSE, a medical imaging and information management system. The system not only links items of medical information, but also provides diverse imag -
ing functions for different types of diagnoses utilizing Fujifilm’s imaging processing technology. SYNAPSE helped form net -
works of local healthcare and emergency medical services to support doctors’ accurate and prompt diagnoses. Originally used for radiological X-ray imaging, the system is now ap -
plied to a range of purposes by fulfilling the need for integrated management and operation of diverse medical images and associated diagnostic information for more effective diagnosis and treatment. SYNAPSE boasts the largest share of its kind in Japan, installed in 1,900 medical facilities inside Japan and 4,000 across the world. 
Fujifilm endeavors to create a central management system 
that integrates a variety of medical images, from Computerized Tomography (CT) to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), as well as angiography, endoscopy, and diagnostic ultrasound system, in order to contribute to further improvement in diag -
nostic accuracy and realization of medical services without regional disparities. Priority 
issue
1Priority 
issue
2Advanced imaging system supports regional medical 
cooperation and fast accurate diagnosis
Stores medical images and 
associated information together. Data can be retrieved in different formats, as required.
Medical imaging and
information management system
as the core of medical ITSYNAPSE
Diagnosis 
integration solution3D image analysis 
systemTeleradiography 
solutionEmergency Room 
solutionDepartmental 
systemCloud services
Integrates medical 
images and information to support doctors’ diagnosesFujiﬁlm’s advanced image processing technology helps improve diagnosis and treatmentConnects regional hospitals and teleradiology centers to analyze image reading results
Connects hospitals and external specialists via mobile terminals to help emergency medical diagnoses and treatmentIntra-hospital network to share images and informationCooperation between clinics and major regional hospitals (examination facilities)
3D image analysis
volume analyzer
SYNAPSE VINCENTTeleradiology imaging 
support system
SYNAPSE ERmTeleradiography system
SYNAPSE TeleradiologySYNAPSE Case
Match SystemExample
Regional medical service
C@RNA ConnectExample Cardiology image and 
report management 
system
SYNAPSE CardioVascularExampleSupport for doctor’s diagnoses
and treatmentReferral between medical institutions
and external specialistsSharing information inside and
outside hospitals
T-705
T-3811
T-2307
T-817MA
T-4288
ITK-1
FF-10501
FF-21101
FF-10502
F-1311BiopharmaceuticalBiopharmaceuticalDevelopment 
No.Therapeutic category Development stage
Phase III
Phase IIISubmitted an application for permission
Phase I 
Phase II
Phase II
Phase I
Phase I
Preparing for Phase I 
Phase IUnder nonclinical trial
Under nonclinical trialRegion
United States
China
United States
United StatesUnited States
Japan
JapanJapanJapan
JapanUnited States / Europe / Japan
 United States / Europe / JapanFormulation
Oral
Oral
Injection
Injection
Injection
InjectionOral
Oral
OralAnti-inﬂuenza drug
Antifungal drug
Alzheimer’s disease drug
Macrolide antibacterial drug
Anticancer drug (prostate cancer) I
Anticancer drug (myelodysplastic syndrome)
 Anticancer drug (refractory solidcancer) 
(armed antibody)
Anticancer drug (refractory solid cancer)
Radiopharmaceuticals (diagnosis drug for prostate cancer)Quinolone synthetic antibacterial drug
*FKB327 (an  adalimumab biosimilar) developed by FUJIFILM KYOWA KIRIN BIOLOGICS Co., Ltd. (Fujiﬁlm’s 
equity-method afﬁliated company) started Phase I trials in Europe in April 2013, as planned.As of June 2014▼Fujifilm Group’s Medical IT
▼Volume Analyzer SYNAPSE VINCENT,  
3D Image Analysis System▼Local medical liaison service C@RNA Connect
▼Fujifilm Consolidated Group’s Pipeline▼Overview of Healthcare Document Management
*DACS:   Document Archiving and Communication System. Concept suggested 
by Department of Medical Informatics at Osaka University Hospital.
Kidney analysis
Kidney surgery can be easily simulated by full or semi-automatic extraction of an area of kidney and veins.
1
click
Hospital
Intra-hospital network
Regional medical
cooperation networkClinic
Clinic
ClinicControl
terminalControl 
terminalOrdering
systemImage &
information
system
SYNAPSE
Enterprise-PACSISAVPN router
Customer’s PC
Dedicated WSReverse reference & 
result report
IPSec & IKE encrypted
VPN compliant withMHLW GuidelinesInternet
SSL
Internet
VPNInternet VPN
remote service
ACTIVELINEReferring patients
Booking an 
examinationData centerConceptual image of health care cooperation based on the DACS* concept
Hospital X
Clinic Y
(using paper records)
Nursing Care
Center ZPatient A 
Health Insurance
Pharmacy V
Pharmaceutical
Company W
Pharmacy V
Company W
Accumulates and manages
medical information
in document format
Long-term storage and
utilization of healthcare
information
Medical and nursing care records, clinical trial documents, etc.Medical records, nursing care records, etc.
Medical records, prescriptions, etc. Prescriptions and their history, etc.
Clinical trial related documentNursing care and medical records
Smart tracking
Based on previously stored vessel information, software extracts the area recognized as blood vessels. The areas can be extracted with one click even if they touched bones.
20 21 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014The FUJINON 
DV2.2x4.1SR4A lens is the world’s first* vari-focal lens that offers advanced optical performance for compatibility with six megapixel high resolution security cameras.
* Among vari-focal lenses for security cameras, as of 
March 25, 2014 according to Fujifilm data
Priority issue 1  Contribute to creating a safe and secure society
Target:   Disseminate products that contribute to long-term storage of important information, 
crime prevention, and improve information security and social infrastructure safety
Priority issue 2  Contribute to enriching humanity and relationships
Targets: (1)   Contribute to handing down important cultures and artworks 
 (2)   Develop solutions to invigorate the community engagement (3)   Disseminate photographic products that store memories in tangible forms and 
enrich people’s lives
Photography, the original business of the Fujifilm Group, has the power to preserve memories of events 
and help us to lead fulfilling lives. This belief was reinforced by the “Photo Rescue Project” organized dur -
ing the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake. With our “Tono Miraizukuri College (Tono Future Creation College),” conceived as part of the recovery assistance activities, we are exploring directions we can take in the future to revitalize local communities. Photos and documents can revitalize communication and pre-serve our cultural heritage for future generations, and our hope is that we can develop new products and services and promote their wider use in society. The safe storage of digital data is important in allowing members of society to preserve their ties with other people, thus enriching life in a society that is safe and with fewer accidents and less crime.FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Backing up vital data in the information-oriented 
society through innovative magnetic tape technology that enable large capacity
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Business Activities
Business Activities
Daily LifePart
3
The number of patients
with depression worldwideApprox.
%
million5
320
Source: World Health Organization (WHO), 
2012The ratio of depression patients
in global population
In our modern “stressed society,” people from children to senior citizens suffer from numerous stresses. Stress is believed to have a huge influence on depression and other modern ailments and in the increase in the number of suicides. In order to build a healthy and sound society, in addition to providing safety and security for everyday living, we need to reaffirm the importance of communication between people and within regions to provide psychological support.
Priority 
issue
1
With advances in networking and 
digitization, all conceivable types of information are now stored as digital data. The volume of data that must be managed has grown rapidly, mak -
ing huge data management and stor -
age methods important problems. In these circumstances, renewed atten -
tion has been directed to magnetic tape, which is now being used by big data center such as Google Inc. for data backup. Magnetic tape is gener -
ally seen as a thing of the past in terms of data storage because of its small recording capacity. However, introduction of the new generation of Barium-Ferrite (BaFe) magnetic particles developed by Fujifilm has provided large storage capacity. Magnetic tape can be used for long-term storage for more than 30 years, compared to only several years for a hard disk drive. It also has other advantages, including low cost and lower environmental impact, and is expected to become the media for safe and secure storage of huge volumes of valuable data.
Data are recorded onto magnetic tape through the fine magnetic 
particles on the recording layer of the tape surface. The recording den -
sity increases with an increase in the density of these magnetic particles. However, there were technical limitations to the metal magnetic particles used until now. Fujifilm foresaw this limitation and began the development of BaFe magnetic particles in 1992, and after overcoming a large number of issues, achieved commercialization. In 2014, state-of-the-art BaFe tape was used to demonstrate the commercial potential of storing 154 TB in a single LTO cartridge, which is approx. 62 times the current storage capacity. This is the world’s largest data recording & reproduction capacity for a magnetic tape. Further R&D and future commercialization is expected to contribute to the ability to preserve important data in our information-oriented society.Helping to keep society safe and 
secure with high resolution camera lenses that enhance securityPriority 
issue
1Since its establishment in 1934, Fujifilm has consistently promoted and 
developed the culture of photography. This commitment was further strengthened with the Photo Rescue Project that started after the Great East Japan Earthquake. Through this activity, Fujifilm reaffirmed its mis -
sion to promote the importance of “keeping memory alive,” not only bringing the memory and emotions preserved in photos back to life for the individual, but also sharing it with family and friends. For this reason, the company is promoting its Photo Renaissance movement from 2013 to communicate the basic pleasures that photography brings through “shooting, preserving, displaying and gifting” based on the concept of en -
riching life with photos of everyday living.
The widespread use of mobile phones and smartphones has in -
creased the number of people who take photos casually. Because of this, Fujifilm is pouring abundant energy into the Instax mini that triggered the wider use of photo prints. Introduced as the world’s first card-sized photo printing system, the Instax mini enables photos to be printed on the spot and given away to others. This quickly became popular with the young generations who have no experience of film cameras and is now attract -
ing fans around the world, not only in Japan but also in Southeast Asia, Oceania, North America and Europe. 
The company is also actively involved in promoting the pleasures 
of creating photo albums with “Album Café” and the “Year Album.” The Year Album, which was introduced in Japan in March 2012, offers ev -
eryone the ability to automatically generate an original and high quality photo book easily from a large number of photos. In February 2014, we opened Wonder Photo Shop to provide a new style of photos in harajuku, Tokyo. The company will continue these promotional activities and de -
velop new products to enrich life for as many people as possible through photography.
Safety and security are important in sustaining a fulfilling life in society. Against a background of major natural disasters and accidents, a decline in public order and various other elements that threaten the safety and security of the public, the de -
mand for increased security is rising. Fujifilm has developed a wide range of lenses over the years. Because our products feature the highest resolution, our lenses are not only used in TV broadcasting and cinemas, mobile phones, motor vehicle cameras, satellites, and many other applications, they are also being used in secu -
rity cameras. In 2014, the company introduced the FUJINON DV2.2x4.1SR4A com -
bined with a high resolution security camera for recording security footage with the finest detail at a high resolution of six megapixels. The use of security camera systems is spreading both in application and location—at convenience stores, ATMs, offices, condominium buildings, public transit systems and public spaces such as schools, railway stations and airports and for disaster prevention at rivers and beaches. Fujifilm has an extensive lineup of lenses, including high-magnifica -
tion zoom lenses for security over long distances, day/night camera lenses for 24 hour monitoring and ultra-wide-angle lenses that meet the needs of our customers and contribute to greater public security.
Released a high capacity magnetic tape 
media “LTO Ultrium 6 Data Cartridge” using a new generation Barium Ferrite magnetic particles in 2012.
In contrast to the HDD that rotates with continual power consumption, the magnetic tape media does not require power, thus reducing energy consumption and contributing to CO
2 
reductionSource: Tape Storage Technical Committee, JEITAThe characteristics of the Barium-Ferrite (BaFe) particle
●Higher capacity: The finer particles enable much higher recording density resulting in super high capacity data cartridges.
●Long archival life: As BaFe is already oxidized, oxidization, the cause of deterioration does not occur. It has much longer life as long as 30 years possible.
●Recording performance: Outstanding frequency characteristics assure recording and reproduction precision, as well as stable data writing.▼Comparison of Metal Magnetic Particles and 
Barium-Ferrite ParticlesInstax mini is gaining popularity 
in various countries. Scene from a shop in Poland.
Sumaho de Checki: instax SHARE SP-1 printer for smart phones launched in earlier 2014 that can print on the spot with Instax
FUJINON HD (High Definition) lens has dramatically improved resolution over existing SD lenses, capturing details including facial features and characteristics of clothing.
* Images captured with lenses adapted for SD-type 
cameras and the HD-type camerasSD lens HD lensDisseminating the culture of photography 
worldwide to enrich lives through photo prints to “keep memory alive”Priority 
issue
2
“Album Café” communicates 
the pleasure of original albums created by mothers across Japan
Like Japan, expanding the culture of the photo album worldwide, scene from the Middle East.
The Year Album received the Nikkei MJ Award for excellence in the Nikkei Superior Products Services Award for 2013
Metal Particles (MP) Barium-Ferrite (BaFe)
▼Mail Archives of a Business Corporation Stored 
for Five Years (energy consumption converted into CO
2 emission volume)
CO2 emission (average of six companies in the industry)
0246810121416(t)
SAS
5 yearsSATA
5 yearsSATA 2 years-
Tape 3 yearsSATA 1 year-
Tape 4 yearsTape
5 years
Source: JEITAApprox.
1/30Approx.
1/3
22 23 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014A new communication proposal for  
the local community and touristsPriority 
issue
2
Priority 
issue
2For Fuji Xerox, con -
tributing to local 
communities is an important theme. The role of the local com -
munity in achieving a sustainable society is 
very important, and corporations giving their attention to local issues and proposing solutions through business operations can lead to the resolution of social issues on a global scale and to higher corporate values.
After the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Restoration 
Promotion Office was opened in October 2011 in Morioka City, Iwate Prefecture. “Tono Miraizukuri College” was opened in April 2014 as an extension to Tono City’s activities to support restoration by providing assistance to Kamaishi City and other coastal areas struck by the disaster.The College was conceived as a project to develop Tono City by identifying issues that Fuji Xerox excels at and applying communications technology to form consensus and facilitate ongoing dialogue between the city government, local resi -
dents, NPOs and other parties. It is expected to oversee the development and management of collaborative programs between Fuji Xerox and Tono City and promote activities that will lead to regional development, cultural protection, and cre -
ate industries and develop human resources through dialogue, training, group work, etc. It will act as a center of coordination and exchange for industrial, government and academic sec -
tors and regions, as well as coordinating major policy mea -
sures by Tono City, and act as a disaster control base in the event of an emergency. Efforts to resolve the underlying issues in the region made as part of the efforts to help the region re -
cover could possibly lead to business commercialization, and future application to other regions.
Tourism is being studied in various parts of Japan as a way to revitalize local economies. Fuji Xerox has researched methods of presenting tour guides that tourists find really helpful, and conducted tests in a total of 10 tourist spots over roughly three years. As a result of this research, the Sightseeing Audio Guide Service employing a smartphone was commercialized in 2013. Tourists are able to receive the latest information, as if being escorted by a local guide, as well as information that is unique to the area, such as recommended shops and restaurants and route guide. A multilingual guide service (in English, Chinese and Korean) is also available. It is also a promising commu -
nications tool for the local community, and could be used to send security alert data to local residents.
This service was commended for the way it contributes 
to the sustainable society by providing a new tourist mecha -
nism for communication between local residents and tourists, and received the 2013 Good Design Award from the Japan Institute of Design Promotion.Tono Miraizukuri College collaborates in 
building future local communities
Priority issue 1  Promote communications that transcend the information barrier
Target:   Promote solution services to enhance communications inside and outside the 
company and widely notify details of case studies
Priority issue 2  Promote diversity
Target:   Create and expand practical working environment solutions that enable 
people to work wherever and whenever to suit individual’s skills and lifestyle 
needs
The Fujifilm Group has brought evolution to communications in society through a fusion of familiar 
paper data with digital data and on to a seamless integration with cloud services and mobile solu-tions. Access to and the sharing of information in various forms with ease and without any con-scious awareness of the digital divide expands the possibilities for different services and working styles in every possible place—in offices and government organizations and in education and medi-cal care. By giving value to communication with the focus on people, Fujifilm will continue to support a wide range of working styles for the new age.FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Developing a seamless information network  
to support optimal communication  in the workplace
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities
Business Activities
Business Activities
Working
StylePart
3
Policy target
%30
2003 decision by the Headquarters for the 
Promotion of Gender EqualityThe ratio of women in leadership 
positions by 2020
The recommendation on the Nairobi Forward-Looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women adopted by the UN Economic and Social Council in 1990 was for “the ratio of women in leadership positions to increase to at least 30% by 1995.” In Japan in 2003, the Headquarters for the Promotion of Gender Equality an-nounced that it hopes for “the ratio of women in leadership position to at least reach roughly 30% by 2020.” Although the 30% ratio is an international target, the figure has not been achieved in many areas in Japan. Diversity that allows a wide variety of people to work and for women to play an active role is an important issue that must be addressed urgently.Priority 
issue
1
Working within the corporate framework is not sufficient to resolve the various social issues that are 
emerging across today’s world. Organizations in the industrial, government, academic and private sectors must work in coordination to assemble their technologies and wisdom. Fuji Xerox pro-poses a solution that will enable diverse forms of communication. It will provide support for build -
ing a communication environment that creates new value, chiefly in the three areas shown in the illustration.
Supporting mobile work for a greater freedom in working styles
The importance of the mobile workplace is growing as a method of unrestricted communication not confined by time or place. It not only boosts business efficiency and speed, but also helps to reduce the energy consumption involved in transporting goods, and hence in a reduction in CO
2 
emissions.
As a solutions service supporting an open working style, Fuji Xerox is offering new applications 
for tablet terminals and document printing services available outside the workplace. Printing is avail -
able through our Public Print Service, which is available in public spaces such as local government offices, universities and retail stores, for information sharing with one’s company in an environment that can easily be made highly secure, even in a mobile computing environment. We help custom -
ers enabling them to use information that they need, when they need it and in their preferred form through seamless connection of offices, mobile terminals and public printing. We support di -
verse working styles with a high degree of freedom.Description of activities Initiating body
Fuji Xerox:
Companies, 
universities &
research 
institutes
Tono City:
Local 
communities, 
NPOs & NGOs
Normal Emergencies Normal Future studies
on local 
communications, 
creative activities, 
PR
Reinforce function 
as a base in the 
event of disasters
Sustainable local 
revitalization for 
Tono City˔ Corporate, research & employee training
˔ Coordination with universities (education 
& research)
˔ Ethnology research & communication 
base
Establishment of experience & learning-oriented Tono tourism 
utilizing local resources
Development of recipes using traditional vegetables and foods, 
development of local products, manufacturing/sales of processed goods, etc.
Development of a long-stay environment, development of 
restaurants for the provision of traditional vegetables and foods˔ Green tourism center
˔ Sixth industry development & sales of 
processed goods
˔ Restaurants & simple accommodationCoordination with disaster control centers to serve as a base for medical personnel and other volunteers, etc.˔ Disaster control center
The local government uses 
production tools to pre-register geographical location data and text content of sites for which they wish to provide guide information on a cloud server. Tourists use their smartphones with a specially developed app and audio content. While browsing the site, sightseeing information can be received automatically simply by approaching a registered tourist spot.The former Tono Municipal Tsuchibuchi Junior High School building used, drawing attention as an example of the effective use of closed schools.
Various open college programs started 
in April 2014▼The Roles of Tono Miraizukuri College
▼Solutions and Services to Optimize Information Flow and 
Workflow
˔ Analysis of current state (ﬂow and stock) 
Linkage with business/mission-critical systems
˔ Decision of operational structure and rules 
(convenient/safe/secure)Optimize Information
Flow and Workﬂow
Optimize
IT EquipmentSupport Open
Work Way
˔ Realization of a work way 
that enables working anytime/anywhere by taking advantage of mobile environment˔ Analysis of current state (IT assets) 
˔ Selection and establishment of IT 
infrastructure 
˔ Operation of IT infrastructure▼Solutions/Services to Assist Mobile Working
Provides the system
Provides the serviceRent out
• App
• Editing tool• Cloud server• Dedicated smartphoneCreator Operator
AdministratorUses the audio guide Creates the contents and operatesFuji Xerox Local government, tourist boards, local NPOs Tourists
• Manages the creators
• Manages the 
editing tool • Rents and collects 
smartphones
• Manages the 
smartphones• Creates and updates 
contents
Share information internally and externally:
Establish document work ﬂow:
DocuWorks Document Tray Option+Working FolderMemoɾ Mobile Integrated ApplicationImport, view, edit and print documents:Integrate
ɾ Public Print ServicePrint while away from ofﬁce:Seamless
LinkPhoto -graphFree-hand
24 25 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014FUJIFILM 
Sustainable Value Plan 2016
The globalization of business development for organizations 
that make use of diverse human resources has become an essential part of sustainable business growth. In Japan, how -
ever, the participation of women has not grown significantly in comparison with other countries. Creating an environment that enables women to continue working and maintain their work balance has become a major issue.
With this background, Fuji Xerox has started a new kind 
of outsourcing business, in which KPO
*1 is a key to the ser -
vice. BPO*2, which had been the main form of outsourcing 
until now, involved easy routine work. On the other hand, KPO involves a greater demand for decision-making and special -
ized knowledge, including intelligent work preparation and data processing. Although these business processes are not mainstream, these business segments could not be easily out -
sourced. However, KPO demand is growing among Western businesses today and is expected to expand rapidly in Japan in the future. Fuji Xerox has solved this problem with its ex -
tensive know-how in document-related outsourcing services and intelligent productivity improvement services. With the introduction of teleworking that enables versatility in working style not restrained by time and location, a new form of out -
sourcing has emerged that matches KPO with people who have knowledge and experience, but who are unable to work due to their personal circumstances. There is an outstanding potential labor force of residents who previously worked full-time in business corporations (such as women caring for small children, full-time housewives and senior citizens) in suburbs. We plan to offer those people work-at-home schemes and of -
fices in certain areas to provide work opportunities that reduce the burden of transportation and add versatility to working arrangements. The new service is expected to be mutually beneficial—not only boosting the intelligent productivity of businesses but also supporting versatility in working styles for workers. We will continue to support women in society today with their working style reform proposals and so contribute to diversity in society.
*1 KPO: Knowledge process outsourcing
*2 BPO: Business process outsourcingScan Translation Service to support multilingual communication
With the advances in globalization in various fields in recent years, exchange of documents between 
countries, multinational conferences and other opportunities for dealing with documents in non-native languages are growing. Although much of the information is in English, communication of a higher quality often requires the use of local languages. However, machine translation is difficult to use for material that is not in digital form.
Fuji Xerox’s Scan Translation Service connects to the multifunction devices widely used as an 
essential part of the office infrastructure. Printed documents and digital documents can be translated into various languages as easily as making copies. In addition to digital documents, text from printed material such as books and handouts can be converted into translated documents while maintaining the original docu -
ment layout. In addition to improving business efficiency, sharing the same document facilitates the sharing of ideas and opinions between people speaking different languages. Greater effort will be made to improve the precision of trans -
lation and to adapt to a larger number of languages, contrib-uting to multilingual communication that is an essential part of business diversity.
Priority 
issue
2New services to support women 
and a diverse working style
Major
business
companyBusiness
outsourcing
Employed
workerKPO service menu
(example)[Business corporation] [Workers]
SMEs &
individual
entrepreneursCloud worker
Many in number but lower in unit valueProjects that are large in scale and value, but few in number
Staff business support with quality assuranceNew marketBPOBusiness process outsourcing
(BPO)
˔Business processes cannot be 
developed easily
˔Analysis, decision-making & creation
˔Understanding information abilities exceeding customer expectations
˔Added valueKnowledge process outsourcing
(KPO)KPO
Cloud sourcingwMarket survey, business & competition analysis
wVarious research & statistical analysis
wMultilingual translation
wPatent research
wDocument production (plan & proposal, etc.)
wDocument form production
wDesign support for businesses
wVarious application support, etc.˔ Easy and routine work 
˔ Data input, check and management
˔ Satisfaction of standards expected by 
the customer without fail
˔ Improved productivity▼KPO Realizing a New Form of Outsourcing Service
Paper document to translateTranslate and print on multifunction device
Scan original document with multifunction device
Upload original document ofDocuWorks or PDF
(Cloud service)Scan Translation
Service Replacement
translation
Chinese to Japanese
Original docment: Chinese
Electronic document to translateStarttranslatingIn addition to translation 
between Japanese and English, Chinese (simplified & traditional) and Korean, direct translation from English to Chinese (simplified & traditional) and Korean is possible.
CSR Activity  
Report
Our CSR Activity Report fea-
tures the Fujifilm Group’s lead-ing activities in FY2013 con-cerning its Medium-Term CSR Plan and issues involving CSR. In addition to its actions on the nine priority issues, activities that the Group regards as vital are also presented.
CSR Activity Report in FY2013 ....................................................... 28
Topics in FY2013 ............................................................................. 30Social Contribution Activities Across the World .............................. 36Corporate Governance .................................................................... 38CSR Management ........................................................................... 39Quality Improvement in Compliance and  
Risk Management Activities ............................................................ 41
Overall View of the Environmental Impact of  
the Fujifilm Group ............................................................................ 43
Promoting Anti-Global Warming Measures ..................................... 44Development and Dissemination of Environmentally  
Conscious Products and Services .................................................. 46
Effective Use of Resources ............................................................. 48Biodiversity Conservation................................................................ 50Improving Chemical Substance Management ................................ 52Respect for Human Rights .............................................................. 53Effective Utilization and Training of Human Resources ................... 54Occupational Health and Safety...................................................... 56Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers ............................................ 57Products and Services which Reflect  
Our Customers’ Views ..................................................................... 58
Integration of Business and Social Contributions ........................... 60
27 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 26 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014CSR Activity Report in FY2013CSR 
Activity ReportCSR Activity Report in FY2013
Promotion Policy Priority Issue Medium-Term Target Main Achievement (Progress) in FY2013 Self-Evaluation Page in Report
Enhancement of the 
corporate foundation
Ensuring the soundness of corporate culture to support structural reformsImprovement of the quality of compliance/risk management across the Group①Make all employees aware of the Charter for Corporate Behavior and the Code of Conduct
②Improve for risk issues management system● Conducted information sessions on compliance targeting managers of FF and Group companies in Japan to raise 
compliance awareness of all employees (Held 50 sessions for a total of 3,000 managers)
● Made preparations for the implementation of the anti-corruption program (in Southeast Asia, and some corporations in South America. Conducted continuously since FY2012)
● Reviewed risk factors for the entire Group, including earthquakes and other natural disasters and reinforced the countermeasures.
● Implemented group-wide information security regulations and guidelines〇●Activity Report   
Pages 41 to 42
●Data and Information  
Page 62
Enhancement of communications with stakeholders①Improve the Sustainability Report
②Make effective use of stakeholder dialogue● Active public relations activities for CSR activities (4 news releases, 13 lectures & presentations, and 1 article contribution)
● Conducted materiality analysis with experts for Medium-Term CSR Plan
● Released the Sustainability Report in Japanese, English, and Chinese (including the third parties’ opinions and group 
policies)
● Internal survey on CSR-oriented procurement through the self-check system
● Conducted stakeholder dialogues (environmental meeting in China, environmental report meeting for local 
inhabitants, joint environmental dialogue meeting in the Kaisei district by Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox)
● Improved products and services based on customers’ comments (medical equipment, cosmetics, digital  cameras, etc.)〇●Topics in FY2013  Pages 34 to 35
●Activity Report  Pages 39 to 40
Enhancement of the human resource infrastructure
Utilization and development of talent to increase the Group’s comprehensive strengthUse and development of diversified talent①Develop change leaders
②Develop key management talent
③Focus on the allocation and accelerate the development of global talent● Key management talent training
  •  Conducted FUJIFILM BusinessSchooltotrainselectedmanagers
  •  Conducted continuously onKeyTalentTrainingbygatheringcandidates forfuturemanagement
  • C a r r i e d onatrainingcourseforoverseasmanagement, toidentify,select,andpromotequalifiedtalent 
StartedupRegionalLeadership Seminarproject
  • S t a r t e d theschemefordeveloping andtrainingchangeleadersbasedonthenewHRsystematFujiXeroxand
affiliated and sales companies inside and outside Japan 
● Implemented measures to strengthen global human resource development
  •  Implemented Englisheducation coursesandcontinued executionofvarioustrainingprogramsforglobalization 
among Japanese employees
  •  Reinforced temporary overseaspostingsystem,includinglanguageeducation
  • C a r r i e d ontrainingsessionsforoverseassubsidiaries todisseminate theFUJIFILM WAY
  •  Expanded scopeofacceptance forinternships (India&Singapore) 
● Promoted development of change leaders in sales, manufacturing, and other business fields
  • C a r r i e d onbasicsalestrainingandsalesmanagement traininginbusinessdivisionsandGroupcompanies
  •  Provided trainingperjobclassification andtechnical/skills trainingsinthemanufacturing departments and
manufacturing-related Group companies
  •  Introduced group-wide employeesystemandlaborrulestopromoteHR exchanges within the Group〇●Topics in FY2013  
Page 34
●Activity Report  
Pages 54 to 55
●Data and Information  
Pages 63 to 64
Provision of eco-
friendly products and services to help improve quality of life (QOL)
Differentiation through environmental protection Promotion of anti-global warming measures across the Group①Fujifilm:  Improve CO
2 emissions per unit 
of production by 40% at six major factories in Japan relative to FY1990
②Fuji Xerox:  Improve CO
2 emissions per unit of 
actual output by 35% at five major factories in Japan relative to FY1990
③Encourage employees and their families to reduce their CO
2 emissions
★Long-term target: Reduce the life cycle CO
2 emissions by 30% worldwide by 
FY2020● Developed and promoted energy conservation and cost reduction targets on group-wide, including overseas 
subsidiaries, with the establishment of the new Energy Strategy Promotion Committee
  • D e v e l o p e d wheelingsystemofelectricpowerbyutilizingself-generation capabilityincompliance withtherevised
ElectricBusinessAct
  •  Group-wide deployment ofenergy-saving measures onproduction lines(continued) &reduction offixedenergy
consumption with all equipment shutdown
● Environmental awareness promotion activities focused on CO 2 reduction. Approx. 20,000 Fujifilm & affiliated 
company employees and approx. 6,000 Fuji Xerox employees (in R&D divisions) participated
●Formulated medium-term target (FY2016) for the long-term target: Reduce the life cycle CO 2 emissions by 30% 
worldwide by FY2020 〇●Topics in FY2013  
Pages 30 to 31
●Activity Report  
Pages 44 to 45
●Data and Information  
Pages 65 to 66
Development and 
dissemination of environmentally conscious products and services①Develop and offer products and services with higher environmental performance than that of present ones for the main products
②Continue design for environment (DfE) for all products●Visualizedthereductions inCO 2 emissions for products and services, and disclose environmental attributes actively. 
(Promoted calculation methods in medical products, started reporting environmental activities in life science field on the website)
●Formulated water footprint calculation guidelines as internal procedures 
●Developed materialsandproducts(hardware/software) withlowerenvironmental impact〇●Topics in FY2013  
Page 31
●Activity Report  
Pages 46 to 47
Biodiversity conservation①Add “biodiversity conservation” to product development criteria
②Steadily conduct local environmental protection activities
③Establish new procurement standards for paper suppliers●Steadily conducted assessment of biological resources procurement based on the rule for Design for Environment (including preparations for enactment of the Nagoya Protocol) 
●Continuously conducted local environmental protection activities
●Established safety evaluation system for ecosystem〇●Activity Report  
Pages 50 to 51
Effective use of resourcesEnhance 3Rs, including reducing the use of resources, in line with CO
2 emission 
reduction activitiesTarget: Decrease the use of energy per unit of production quantity by 18% across the company (relative to 2009)●Actively reduce CO 2 emissions and fuel costs through efficient energy usage
●Utilizationofresourceswithpromotionofthe3Rmovement (products&packagingmaterials): Promotionofcosmetic
product container refills
●Promotionofwastereductionproject:Extension andpromotion ofgroup-wide optimization ofwastetreatment 
contracting to cover distribution warehouses and offices (improving quality level in recycling and conversion of wastes into valuables)
●Continuously expanded theclosed-loop recycleforCTP/PSplates(RecycleofusedCTP/PSplates)
●Promoted cooling water recycling and maintained the lower water emission per unit through water saving measures
●Improved VOC emission per unit resulting from film manufacturing〇●Topics in FY2013  Page 32
●Activity Report  Pages 48 to 49
●Data and Information  Page 66
Improvement of chemical substance management①Enhance the management of chemical substance safety across the supply chain
②Adopt a new risk assessment method for chemical substances
③Enhance global governance to ensure compliance with laws and regulations (not only in Japan, Untied States, and Europe but also in emerging economies, including China)●Support in the deployment of the new risk assessment system within the Group based on control banding
●Expanded use of an infrastructure to manage information on chemical substances in products
●Participated in cross industry activities to disseminate the framework internationally
●Expandedexchanging regulatory information withofficesintheUnitedStates,Europe,China,andsi tesinother
countries〇●Activity Report  Page 52
●Data and Information  Page 67
Achievement of business results from the viewpoint of stakeholders
Social contribution to add more value to business Promotion of social contribution activities linked with core businessContinue activities based on the Social Contribution Policy●“PHOTO IS”—30,000 person Photo Exhibition
●Pink Ribbon Campaign
●Support for the publication of large-font textbooks
●Held photo class for young people and supported for Kikigaki Koshien , Watashi-no Komichi Kankyo Nikki  
competition.
●Volunteer tree planting activity in China (15th anniversary meeting in China, published DVD and book)
●Participated Umi-no-Mori  tree planting activity hosted by the secretariat of Kikigaki Koshien
●ActivitiestoSupportRecoveryfromtheGreatEastJapanEarthquake (OpenTonoMiraizukuri College,Supportby
thenewemployees, PhotoRescueProject,Usingknowledge ofradioactivity tofosterrecovery)
●Social contribution activities across the world〇●Social Contribution Activities Across the World  
Pages 36 to 37
●Activity Report  
Page 60
●Data and Information  Pages 68 to 69○: Achieved successful results  △: Made some progress  ×: More effort required Medium-Term CSR Plan (FY2010 to 2013)
●Developed wheeling of electric power with inhouse power system
: Fuji/f_ilm Fujinomiya Factory 
(power generation site)
: Fuji/f_ilm sites
: Sites of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliated 
companies
: Fuji Xerox sites●Reinforced the development measures for key management and global talent both in 
Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY
Training for overseas subsidiaries
FUJIFILM WAY
Global Regional1st GLS 2nd GLS 3rd GLS
Continuous measures
*GLS: Global Leadership Seminar    *RLS: Regional Leadership SeminarOnce a year4th GLS
FUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
management 
level in North 
America and 
ChinaFUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
directors in 
North America 
and China
FUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
management 
level in EuropeCompany-wide 
implementation in 
China/Asia Paciﬁc 
region (plan)Europe and 
North America 
1st RLS
Training for managers 
and general 
employees (plan)
Start training in Asia 
Paciﬁc region (plan)
CSR Activity Reportp. 54
●Formulated medium-term target (FY2016) for CO 2 emissions reduction of 
the long-term target
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000CO2 (kt-CO 2/year)
6,000
2005
Base year2010 2011 2012 2013 2016
Medium-term
target2020
Target(FY)1,8281,4873651,112257
2,4321,316481726236
615
646
1,267
2,462253
226
616
464
1,343
2,260710200
411
1,268
2,149534203
449
1,190
2,1694011385,0495,191 5,243
4,9094,738
4,544
3,525
423
929
1,634Procurement Manufacturing Transportation Use Disposal
Medium-term target
Target relative
to FY2005
30%
reduction
CSR Activity Reportp. 44
●Measurestoachievezerolandfillfromproducts(reduction ofnewresourceinput
by reused parts)
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000(t)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY)4,400
2,0002,272 2,3612,834
*CO 2 emission reduction achieved through the use of recycled parts. This represents 
the amount of CO 2 emissions that would have been generated at the production 
stage with the manufacture of new parts, if recycled parts had not been used.
CSR Activity Reportp. 48●Released the Sustainability Report in Japanese, English, and Chinese
 ●Conducted stakeholder dialogues in China and Kaisei District where the R&D and 
manufacturing base in Kanagawa
Topics in FY2013   p. 34
●Active support for female employees to diversify their working style
Topics in FY2013p. 33
CSR Activity Reportp. 55
●Reductions in CO 2 emissions for products 
and services
Topics in FY2013p. 31
CSR Activity Reportp. 47
●Support for the education of the next generation/environmental conservation and
biodiversity conservation
CSR Activity Reportp. 60●Integration of business and social contributions
Solving Social Issues through 
Business Operationp. 24●Social contribution activities across the world
Social Contribution Activities Across the Worldp. 36 p. 37Topics in FY2013p. 30
28 29 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014A third facility installs solar 
panels in the United States to reduce CO
2 emissions
InDecember 2013,FUJIFILMRecording MediaU.S.A.,Inc.
becamethethirdUSfacilityoftheFujifilmGrouptoinstall
solarpanels,followingtheHawaiianofficeofFUJIFILMNorth
America Corporation (2011) and the company’s printing ink 
plant in Kansas City, Missouri (2012). The panels installed at the FUJIFILMRecordingMediafacilitycomprisesof1,870modules
withtheabilitytogenerate644,000kWhofelectricityperyear,
which helps reduce CO
2 emissions by 444 tons per year (equiva-
lent to the amount absorbed by a 7,280-acre forest or emissions from21millionmilestravelledbycars).ThethreeUSbasesgen-
erateatotalof1,200,000 kWhofelectricity.
The Fujifilm  
Group companies will continue to look for renewable energy opportunities and to encourage energy conservation.
Promoting Anti-
Global Warming Measures
Milk Run system launched in Suzhou, China to reduce CO
2 
emissions
FUJIFILMImagingSystems(Suzhou)Co.,Ltd.adoptedaMilk
Run system—a round trip logistics of digital camera parts etc. 
from their suppliers in April 2013. The system has contributed totherationalization ofcomponent procurement andtoasub-
stantial reduction in transportation distances, resulting in a re -
duction in CO
2 emissions of about 20,000 tons (28%) per year.
BecausetheFujifilmGroupCompanydeliverscomponents 
under the Milk Run system, the factory is able to receive a guaranteed supply of components.
Promoting Anti-
Global Warming Measures
Implementing the wheeling of electric power for the Fujifilm Group sites with in-house power
The Fujifilm Group has established a system to transport electricity 
generated at Fujinomiya Factory to its 16 sites, which are large power users in Kanto region, over the electric power company’s power grids as a countermeasure to the tight supply of electricity from the power company resulting from the Great East Japan Earthquake. Fujifilm Group began implementing this “wheeling of electric power with in-housepowersystem”inApril2014.Wehavebeenpersistent in
extolling the merits of this system to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and the concept was finally incorporated in the revised ElectricityBusinessAct.Aftertherevisioncameintoforce,westarted
to implement the system for the first time in Japan. It enables us to secure a stable supply of electricity even if the electric power company requests us to reduce our electricity consumption during the summer and winter seasons, and also helps to reduce the contract demand of electricity the power company supplies to us, which in turn reduces our energy costs.
Promoting Anti-
Global Warming Measures
▼Sites using the Fujifilm Group’s wheeling of electric power with in-house power system
: Fuji/f_ilm Fujinomiya Factory 
(power generation site)
: Fuji/f_ilm sites
: Sites of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliated 
companies
: Fuji Xerox sites
An event was held to commemorate the 
introduction of solar panels.
Fujifilm factory promotes the use of renewable energy in the Netherlands
SinceFUJIFILMManufacturing EuropeB.V.(theNetherlands) 
introduced a wind power generation system about two–and-a-
half years ago, its system has been running in a stable manner and now covers about 15% of its total power use with renewable energy.Wealsocontinuetostriveforitsstableoperationasthe
readjustment of the wind turbine blades to prevent ice deposition.
And, we are actively cooperating with Tilburg city, which is 
committed to introducing solar power, in installing arrays of solar panelsontheroofoffactory(togenerate1.4GWhofelectricity
annually). Fujifilm signed a “Green Deal” agreement with Tilburg city and a local solar power generation company to promote the  conversion to renewable energy as the countermeasure for climate change in Tilburg in 2045.
Wewillcon-
tinue to cooper -
ate with local communities in preventing climate change.
Promoting Anti-
Global Warming MeasuresTopics in FY2013CSR 
Activity ReportTopics in FY2013
TheToyamaWorksofTOYAMACHEMICAL introduced aBEMS * to 
increase their energy conservation in December 2013. The Toyama 
Workscomprisesapharmaceuticals laboratoryandamanufacturing 
plant.TheWorksbeganunitedenergyconservation activitiesacross
the board in FY2014 to reduce energy use by 10% year on year, in anticipation of an increase in power consumption following the launch of new manufacturing facilities on the site.
Inintroducing thesystem,theWorks
chose nine facilities with high energy use and equipped them with electricity monitors and demand controllers. The data collected by the electricitymonitorsisvisualizedandproduces
statistical data in real time, and the demand controllers help reduce consumption during the peak demand hours through the automatic control of air conditioning and lighting equipment.
* Building an Energy Management System to reduce energy con -
sumption by buildingsTOYAMA CHEMICAL ’s Toyama Works introduces a BEMS to 
increase energy conservation
Promoting Anti-Global Warming Measures
▼Outline of TOYAMA CHEMICAL’s BEMS
CSR Activity Report in FY2013  
PromotingAnti-Global WarmingMeasuresp. 44
CSR Activity Report in FY2013  
Development and Dissemination of Environmentally Conscious Products and Servicesp. 46
CSR Activity Report in FY2013  
Design for the Environment
Fujifilm formulated water footprint calculation guideline in the whole product lifecycle
Fujifilmformulated theinternalguidelinefor waterfootprint(WF)calculation 
tovisualizetheuseofwater(andwaterquality withaview)inthewholeprod-
uct lifecycle, thereby fostering the sustainable use and protection of limited 
water resources through development of environmentally conscious products.
Design for the 
Environment
▼Water consumption in product lifecycle of developer waste reduction and water reuse unit (per year)The XR-2000 Developer waste reduction  
and water reuse unit for offset printingCalculation  
example
The XR-2000 reduces waste liquid from film processing to about one-
eighth through vacuum distillation, and makes seven-eighths of the water reusable. The system thus reduces the water footprint of the offset printing process by 51%. The WF calculation results are useful for printing factories to identify contribution to reduction in their water use and also help the development to decrease their use of developing solution further.
The PS-02-FIM2200 energy storage system with the built-in 
lithium ion battery for digital multifunction devices1,000 0 -1,000 -2,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000
Water consumption (l)51% reductionProcessing liquid usedTransportation and
disposal of
processing liquid used
Processing
liquid usedReduction
effectsRecycled
water
Transportation and disposal
of processing liquid usedTransportation and disposal
of processing liquid usedWithout
the unitWithout
the unit
With waste
reduction
unit XRWith waste
reduction
unit XR
Electric power consumption by the unitElectric power consumption 
by the unit
*Reduction amount depends on the condition of use<Assumption for Evaluation> • Average impact per year in seven-year usage of the system • Plate processing condition: 1,000 m2/month, eight hours/day, 25 days/month  • Recycled water is reused as dilution water for preparation of processing solution. • The water consumption database by Norihiro Itsubo Lab. is used.Unit (parts, manufacturing, and transportation)Unit (parts, 
manufacturing, and transportation)Reduction by using recycled waterwaste reduction to 1/8Recycled water generated by the developer waste reduction and water reuse unitLANData center
Laboratory Manufacturing
plantManufacturing
plantAutomatic control
Electricity monitors & demand controllersIndividual management of air conditioning, motive power and lighting equipment
Monitoring
peak
demand
Emergency energy storage system for multifunction devices 
Particularly after the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 
2011, there have been growing concerns over the supply of electricity and preparations for emergency situations.
Fuji Xerox and Fuji Xerox Advanced Technology launched 
the energy storage system with a built-in lithium ion battery for digital multifunction devices based on technologies co-developed with Toppan Printing. Incorporating high-capacity batteries that can supply power and be charged at the same time, the energy storage system is connected to Fuji Xerox’s digital multifunction device and enables users to continu -
ously operate it even at power stoppage, by automatically switching the source of power distribution to the system from a power outlet. The system also serves as a source of power supply for other electric devices to support continu -
ance of business activities at disasters and emergencies.
The system was developed to be used at major disasters 
when emergency generators with a limited electric-generating capacity cannot meet the demands at places such as public offices conducting supportive activities, universities and educational institutions functioning as evacuation sites for a large group of people, or companies and hospitals in continuing their business.
AC
100VPower 
supply
Digital multifunction 
devicePS-02-FIM2200 Commercial 
power source
30 31 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Wearecommitted toremainingaleadingcompanybyboldlytaking
up the challenge of developing new products and creating new values 
inthevisionoftheFujifilmGroup.Webelievethatitisimportantto
provide employees with a dynamic corporate culture and workplaces where they can feel highly motivated. In the face of the decrease in labor productivity and the increase in medical expenses, we launched a wellness promotion council comprising members from the Human Resources Divisions of each Group company*, industrial doctors and FujifilmGrouphealthinsurancesocietyinJuly2013.Wethenstarted
activities focusing on four priorities: lifestyle-related diseases, smok -
ing, mental health problems, and risk due to overwork.
In encouraging people not to smoke, we are introducing mea-
surestoachievethetargetsetbytheMinistryofHealth,LabourandWelfareby2018,whichis
to reduce the percentage of smokers to 12.2% by 2022. Since October 2013, employ -
ees across the Group wanting to stop smoking have been given subsidies for medical treatment. For the other three priorities we have set the KPIs at each Group company and are accelerating the introduction of measures by inter-companycooperation. Welaunchedanemployeehealthandmedi-
cal data integration project in January 2014 and added anti-cancer measures as a new fifth priority.
*Fujifilm Holdings, Fujifilm and Fuji XeroxPromoting wellness across the Fujifilm Group
Occupational 
Health and Safety
At Fuji Xerox, the numbers of married women and working moth -
ers are increasing among female employees and the percentage of 
female employees who return to work after taking childcare leave is a high 93%. Accordingly, the company is required to improve the environment to help working mothers display more of their abilities at work. To this end, the company has expanded its childcare and family care systems, setting a target of increasing the percentage of female managers to 7% by the end of FY2015.
The company has introduced new support systems, includ -
ing a system of leave of absence for birth support (used by seven employees to date), housing cost support system for employees taking childcare leave (used by 50 employees to date), a babysitter support system (used by 45 employees to date) and a support for fertility treatment (used by 45 employees to date). To provide female employees with more opportunities to display their abilities and be promoted to managers, the company has been steadily implementing enlightenment measures for employees. As a result the percentage of female managers reached 5.3% on April 1, 2014. The company is now required to encourage younger female employees to become future managers.
In FY2013, the compa-
ny held a Diversity Forum for female employees to identify workplace prob -
lems as seen from their viewpoint and participants listed four issues: (1) work -
ing hours, (2) flexible working styles, (3) awareness of female em -
ployees, and (4) awareness of others. For (1) and (2), the company introduced measures that included examining a highly-productive working method (enabling female employees to go home on time), a home-working system (used by 100 on a trial basis), and a remote work system. The company will introduce measures for (3) and (4) from FY2014.
Active support for female employees 
to increase the rate of female managers to 7% by FY2015
Diversity Forum held for 17 female employees in their 30s and executives in charge of personnel affairs
▼Percentage of Working Mothers▼Percentage of Female Managers
●Giving housing allowances to employees taking childcare leave to ease the 
financial burden
●Allowing employees to take single days of paid leave for more diverse reasons, including health care for their family members and themselves
●Allowing employees to take half days of paid leave for more diverse reasons
●Allowing pregnant employees to work shorter hours
●Expanding the mutual support system to give more childcare-related support to employees
●Extending the childcare leave period from until the child becomes 1.5 year old to until the child becomes 2 years old
●Introducing a system of leave for fertility treatment
●Allowing employees to take nursing care leave several times for the same family member▼Expanding the Childcare and Nursing Care Systems
Working mothers 11%
1992
Married 18%Working mothers 35%
2013
Married 48%8.0
7.06.05.04.03.02.020103.3 3.44.14.95.3
2011 2012 2013 2014/4/1 2015 (FY)(%)
7.0%FY2015
target
Effective Utilization 
and Training of Human ResourcesCSR Activity Report in FY2013   Occupational Health and Safetyp. 56
CSR Activity Report in FY2013   Effective UtilizationandTrainingofHumanResourcesp. 54Poster for Thank you for Not Smoking Campaign
Effective Use of Resources
Effective Use of Resources
Award Ceremony held on October 2
Effective Use of Resources
Effective Use of Resources
CSR Activity Report in FY2013   Effective UseofResourcesp. 48100
90
80706050
FY2011 FY2012Fuji/f_ilm (Japan)
Fuji/f_ilm (Europe)
Fuji/f_ilm (US)(%)▼Fujifilm Group’s Zero Waste EmissionsWastewater recycling system 
introduced at the factoryWastewater recycling at  the color paper factory  in the United States
InDecember2013,FUJIFILMManufacturing U.S.A.,Inc.estab -
lished a system to reuse wastewater from the color paper fac-
torywhichmakescombineduseofanintegratedUltrafiltration/
Reverse Osmosis system to treat about 1 kiloliter of water per minute, thus making about 700 liters of wastewater reusable per minute (70% recycling rate). The treated water has a higher purity than typical city water and can be reused on the manu -
facturing line. The factory can save about 300 million liters of water per year, which leads to substantial cost reductions.
Introducing zero emissions to all 
Fujifilm bases in the United States
FUJIFILMHoldingsAmericaCorporation beganconsolidation ofall
wastevendorsintheUnitedStatesintoonewastemanagement 
program. This project will ensure the legally appropriate disposal 
of waste. As one of the principles of the Fujifilm Group, we will also pursueZeroWasteEmissionsbyreducingsimpleincineration and
landfill while promoting cost reductions through the economical and efficientdisposalofwaste.Undertheproject,90%ofourfacili-
ties changed to the new waste management vendor by the end of FY2013.
The project also helped improve greater communication 
among all group companies and sharing of best practices in waste management.Fujifilm’s factory in Tianjin,  
China substantially reduces its use of water in lens processing
FUJIFILMOpt-Electronics (Tianjin)Co.,Ltd.hassubstantially im-
proved the optical lens washing process to reduce its use of water 
and discharge of wastewater. Specifically, the factory began reus -
ing wastewater which is relatively clean from the later part of the washing process in the upstream of the washing process (cascade recycling) and installed a flow controller and a channel switch to suspend the supply of water while lenses were not being washed. As a result, their annual use of water has been reduced by about 16,000 tons (60%). The factory also added a pure water supplier equipped with a reverse osmosis membrane to increase the purity of the washing water, thus increasing the washing process quality.Topics in FY2013Topics in FY2013CSR 
Activity Report
Fuji Xerox Taiwan wins the 
Excellent Performance Enterprises Award from  the Taoyuan County
Fuji Xerox Taiwan, a sales subsidiary of Fuji Xerox, won the 
Evergreen Enterprises category award in the Seventh Excellent Performance Enterprises AwardorganizedbyTaoyuanCounty
of Taiwan, in recognition of its green procurement activities over the years and the initiatives of the Integrated Recycling System at its Taoyuan Factory. Since the recycling activities started in 2004, the company has managed to recycle a total of 3,569.8 tons of waste by 2012. The company became the first in the industry, and the only Japanese company to receive the award.
In addition, Fuji Xerox Taiwan has been making efforts to 
support green procurement promoted by the Taiwan authorities, and received the Green Shop Award from the Taiwan’s Ministry of Environment in 2010 and 2012 for the promotion of eco-purchasing activities.
32 33 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014In April 2013, Fuji Xerox (China) issued its first sustainability report on the CSR activities that 
took place in China throughout the entire value chain. Specifically, the report introduces CSR ac -
tivities in procurement, manufacturing, sales and recycling conducted by five Fuji Xerox subsid -
iaries in China* in order to communicate their sustainability-oriented business activities to more stakeholders.
The report covers activities such as ethical procurement, Employee Assistance Program, re -
ducing environmental burden both at work and home, green office proposals, and the Integrated Recycling System. 
* Sales company: Fuji Xerox Limited (China), Two manufacturing companies: Fuji Xerox of 
Shanghai Limited and Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd., Procurement company: Fuji Xerox China Procurement Service (Shenzhen) Ltd., and Recycling company: Fuji Xerox Eco-Manufacturing (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox China issued a sustainability report  
exclusive on CSR activities in China
Communicating with Stakeholders
In May 2010, Fuji Xerox established the Customer Co-
CreationLaboratory inFujiXeroxR&DSquare,aimingto
create new value with our customers and partners from theirpointofview.TheCustomerCo-Creation Laboratory 
consists oftheOpenLaboratory andtheSecure
Laboratory. IntheOpenLaboratory, wediscussthebasis
of specific examples of business issues addressed by Fuji Xerox with our customers to clarify their business challenges and backgrounds, and then find seeds for creatingvalue.IntheSecureLaboratory, wedevelopthe
seeds obtained into value adaptable to the customer’s field and study the effects by using the human centered designmethod.AtboththeseLaboratories, ourfourac-
tivities are designed for “the new customer value creating process to develop business” as shown right.
In the around four years since the opening up to 
March 2014, some 5,100 people from about 1,400 companies havevisitedtheLaboratory, providing us
with opportunities to identify business challenges and potential issues. About 6,500 employees engaged in R&D at Fuji Xerox worked together with customers tocreatenewvaluethroughtheLaboratory, andthis
helps employees increase their R&D awareness. The SecureLaboratory hasalreadyimplemented 12projects,
eightofwhichhaveledtothereleaseofnewproducts/
services.Localgovernments andpublicorganizations are
anticipating thattheCustomerCo-Creation Laboratory 
will serve as a social network hub for the solution of local and social problems. Accordingly we will make it a forum for industry-academia-government cooperation and the creation of synergy.Customer Co-Creation Laboratory: Environment for 
clarifying and creating customer value
▼The New Customer Value Creating Process to Develop Business
Business partners
Identifying business challenges and potential issues⁞  
⁡
Developing business
Business challenges
and potential issues
Customer Co-Creation LaboratoryProducts &
ServicesUniversity/Research institute/
Public ofﬁces/Local government
Clarifying customer value and their business challenges
Open Laboratory Secure Laboratory
Verifying the hypothetical 
value Partner and customer development
Matching Fuji Xerox
unity of word and deed
(
Genko-ittch ) themeDeveloping business
projectClarifying their
business challengesVerifying
the hypothetical
value
Customer Co-Creation DBUsing business 
challenges and potential issues⁠Fuji Xerox unity of word and deed ( Genko-ittch ) activities
(internal practical examples)Market
Fuji Xerox
R&D
Planning Division
Sales DivisionIncreasing their R&D awareness
through customer co-creation
activities
Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ ViewsCSR Activity Report in FY2013   Communications with stakeholderp. 39
CSR Activity Report in FY2013   Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Viewsp. 58RGB workflow color management service
Helps substantially  
shorten the time required for product design, thus improving quality through consistent color manage -
ment, which prevents the decline in productivity caused by differences in color tones between data output from imaging, video and paper printing devices.▼Products Developed through Co-Creation with Customers
Multi display/
Digital signage<Service ﬂow>
Large display
PC display High-quality display for professional useProjectorConsultingEstablishment/
OperationMaintenanceClassroom lesson support box
Increases the efficiency of operations 
related to tests, reports and other edu -
cational documents by registering the data with the learning support system using its multifunction device scanning function, helping to increase the quality of education.Left: 2012 edition, Right: recently 
published 2013 edition 
Presentation meeting held with many  attendantsBook published to commemorate the activities
Communicating with Stakeholders
Representatives of the four companies briefed participants on their environmental and disaster prevention activities, etc.
Communicating with Stakeholders
InJanuary2014,weopenedtheOpenInnovation Hub(OI-HUB)to
introduce the Fujifilm Group’s fundamental and core technologies 
and the materials, products and services developed with those tech -
nologies to business partners.
Starting out as a maker of photographic materials, the Fujifilm 
Group has developed diverse core technologies to create new prod -
ucts that help meet social challenges. In order to make further inno -
vations, we believe that “co-creation” is essential to deepen commu -
nicationwithstakeholders. Recognizing this,weopenedtheOI-HUB
to combine our technologies with stakeholders’ ideas and potential issues together to spark innovation. At the OI-HUBvisitorscanex-
perience our products by seeing and touching them and appreciate our technologies to in -
spire discussion aimed at creating new values together.Open Innovation Hub to create  
new value with stakeholders
Comprising five zones (The photo shows the 
“Touch Zone”)
Communicating 
with Stakeholders
Presentation meeting held on  the theme of “sustainable green” in China
InDecember2013,FUJIFILM(China)Investment Co.,Ltd.(FFCN)
gave a presentation on its business strategies with the theme of 
“sustainable green” to communicate to stakeholders in China the Fujifilm Group’s CSR and environmental protection principles. At the meeting the company also announced the publication of a book to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the greening activities held in Inner Mongolia jointly with the Fujifilm labor union.
The greening activities were launched in 1998 and FFCN and 
other affiliates in China began participating in 2006. Employees of these companies have planted trees in a desert area extending over more than 18,000 square meters. The book, which introduces the activities, is expected to help increase environmental awareness among the Chinese people.Environmental report meeting  
held in Kanagawa 
The Fujifilm Group has been holding environmental re -
port meetings to increase our information disclosure and make better understanding with local inhabitants. Fujifilm, Fuji Xerox, Fuji Xerox Manufacturing and Fujifilm Techno Products have been holding joint meetings in the Kaisei district of Kanagawa with this aim since 2012.
About30citizensparticipated inthesecondmeeting
held in June 2013, and listened to an explanation of the environmental activities conducted by the four companies. Themeetingwaswellreceivedbyparticipants. Wewill
continue holding similar meetings to increase communica-tion with local communities.Topics in FY2013Topics in FY2013CSR 
Activity Report
34 35 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Social Contribution Activities Across the WorldCSR 
Activity Report
Scrap Book Workshop  
for children
FUJIFILM Europe GmbH held a scrap 
book workshop for children during the summer holidays, showing how to decorate photographs taken with the instax mini 8 camera using crayons and beads. The children learned another way to enjoy photographs.
Photo competition  
with theme of  “People and Nature”
FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 
sponsored the World Environment Day events held across China on June 5, and held a photo competition to raise people’s awareness of environmental protection.
Photo camp for the young people
FUJIFILM (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. has been hosting workshops to promote photography and printing among young people in more than 10 schools since 2007. This year’s three-day photo camp was our biggest accomplishment so far.Art Workshop for children 
with an environmental theme
Working together with local artists and 
children, Fuji Xerox (Hong Kong) Limited held an art workshop utilizing used Fuji Xerox products. The created objects were displayed in a public art exhibition and entertained more than 5,000 visitors. The workshop gave people an opportunity to think about the environment while enjoying the artworks. 
Supporting care centers for the 
elderly and disabled children
Fuji Xerox Vietnam Company Limited has 
now expanded their visits to care facilities—one of their communication activities in the suburban area—from Ho Chi Minh City to Hanoi. Employees visited care centers for the elderly and for disabled children to deliver the support goods and help with cleaning. They also enjoyed sharing time with the residents through recreational activities. Sponsoring the interactive 
map app for nature parks
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation 
became a sponsor of the free mobile app offered to nature and outdoor lovers to guide them through the Westchester County Parks. This is a part of the company’s efforts to support biodiversity. Offering support for tornado 
relief to Moore, Oklahoma 
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. and 
FUJIFILM SonoSite, Inc. offered donations and medical equipment to help recover from the damage from the massive tornado that struck Moore, Oklahoma. Together with Walmart Supercenter in Moore, FUJIFILM North America Corp. provided a free photo repair service and family photo shoots for local people.
Donation of endoscopes to 
Tenwek Hospital in Kenya
With the aim of furthering cancer prevention 
work and early cancer identification, since 2008 FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. has been offering medical equipment, mainly to emerging countries where less people get screened for cancers. Their recent donations contributed to the spread of endoscopy and improvement of medical accessibility in Kenya. Japan’s largest photo exhibition 
featuring 33,012 Works
Since 2006, FUJIFILM has been hosting 
the “PHOTO IS”—30,000 person Photo Exhibition to share the value of photographs to which people participate with their own photographs. In 2013, the exhibition received its largest collection ever—33,012 works, exhibited across 29 cities in Japan.Poland
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]
China
[Environmental Conservation]
Malaysia
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]China
[Environmental Conservation]
Vietnam
[Research and Education]U.S.A.
[Environmental Conservation]U.S.A.
[Health]
Kenya
[Health]Japan
[Culture, Arts, and Sports]Social Contribution Activities Across the World
Fun Chemistry Class for children
TOYAMA CHEMICAL Co., Ltd. hosted a “Fun Chemistry Class” to give children an opportunity to learn that chemistry can be both interesting and fun. The workshop took place as a part of “Harakara Juku,” a study workshop for children to cultivate their ethical sense within the premises of Okuda Shrine in Toyama city. Employees demonstrated a variety of chemical experiments to some 50 children.Japan 
[Research and Education]
●Activities to Support Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake
Sustainable energy facility 
introduced in Hirono Factory  in Fukushima
FUJIFILM Finechemicals Co., Ltd. Hirono Factory 
installed a solar power generator in November 2013, attracting society’s attention as a leading example of sustainable energy utilization in Hirono, Fukushima Prefecture. The solar cells installed on the roof of the pyramid-shaped building supply power for office equipment and building illumination. On adjacent land, which was decontaminated by the company, another solar power generation facility has been built by ABL Co., Ltd., who rent the land. Utilizing sustainable power supplied from these facilities, we will contribute to the recovery of the area through our close relationship with the local community.New employees training  
held in the disaster-affected  area to continue supports  by employees
Fuji Xerox continuously encourages its employees 
to be involved in supports to help the disaster-affected area in collaboration with disaster relief NGOs. This is our attempt to understand the changing needs of the area. In 2013, we dispatched our new employees to Tono City, etc. as a part of their job training to learn present situations, influences and depopulation problems at disaster-affected area. And they discussed how we could rebuild “the community future” with the local government, NGOs, academic institutions, and local residents. We continue to help employees engage in building society. Opening of Tono Miraizukuri 
College in Iwate as a part of disaster recovery efforts
Working together with Tono City, Iwate Prefecture, 
Fuji Xerox has been offering a variety of support for the city’s recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. With a high reputation for the revitalization activities since 2012, the company opened Tono Miraizukuri College for the purpose of regional industry development, local activation and human resource development in April 2014. Establishing a base of collaboration among academy, industry, government, and citizens, Fuji Xerox is responsible for planning and operating the college programs with Tono City, and will continue to help build the future of Tono (see page 24 for details).
36 37 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014▼Corporate Governance StructureCorporate GovernanceCSR 
Activity Report
Business Execution
PersonnelCorporate
PlanningGeneral
AdministrationCorporate R&D Legal CSR
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. TOYAMA CHEMICAL CO., LTD. FUJIFILM CorporationExecutive Ofﬁcers Internal Auditing UnitManagement CouncilPresident, Representative Director & COOChairman, Representative Director & CEOBoard of Directors
˕ Determination of Group management policies and strategies
˕ Decision of important matters relating to business execution
˕ Supervision of business executionShareholders’ Meeting
Audit & Supervisory
BoardIndependent
Auditors
Public Relations/
IRCompliance & Risk Management
CSR Committee
Fujiﬁlm Group Charter for Corporate BehaviorConsultation Ofﬁces
Fujiﬁlm Group Code of Conduct
Various GuidelinesCSR Division (Secretariat)Committee. The Group as a whole moves our CSR activi -
ties forward with a sense of unity.CSR ManagementCSR Activity Report
The Fujifilm Group’s CSR 
Promotion System and 
Related PoliciesCorporate Governance Structure
Communication with  
 Stakeholders
Shared Services CompanyOperating Companies
CSR department of the operating companiesFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
To fulﬁll CSR:˔ Apply policies and strategic objectives 
(determined by the CSR Committee across the entire Fujiﬁlm Group)
˔ Implement and manage progress of priority issues and initiatives as determined by the CSR Committee across the Fujiﬁlm Group
˔ Support the Fujiﬁlm Group’s CSR activities (collect information and conduct analysis and evaluation)
˔ Promote public information disclosure and dialogues with stakeholders
˔ Audit the Fujiﬁlm Group’s CSR activitiesFUJIFILM
CorporationFuji Xerox
Co., Ltd.TOYAMA CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.FUJIFILM Business
Expert CorporationCSR Committee
˔Deliberate and decide basic policies ˔Deliberate and decide priority issues and initiatives
Chairman: President of FUJIFILM HoldingsFor CSR-related items of the Fujiﬁlm Group:CSR Committee Secretariat
(CSR division of
FUJIFILM Holdings function)
˔Formulate and implement CSR activity plan
˔Ensure through compliance and conduct risk management˔Promote communication with stakeholders
˔Report CSR measures to FUJIFILM Holding’s CSR Committee
Fujiﬁlm Group
Social Contribution
PolicyFujiﬁlm Group
Guidelines for
BiodiversityThe Fujiﬁlm Group’s Approach to CSRFujiﬁlm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code of ConductFujiﬁlm Group Corporate Philosophy and Vision
Fujiﬁlm Group
Procurement PolicyFujiﬁlm Group
Quality PolicyFujiﬁlm Group
Occupational Health
and Safety Policy
Adopted April 2008 Adopted July 2008 Adopted June 2009 Adopted October 2009 Adopted January 2010 Adopted January 2010
ὊSee page 56 ὊVisit our website ὊVisit our website ὊVisit our website ὊVisit our website ὊVisit our websiteFujiﬁlm Group
Green Policy
(Environmental Policy)* “Corporate Philosophy and Vision”
 “Charter for Corporate Behavior 
and Code of Conduct” 
 “Approach to CSR” (See pages 10, 11 and website)▼The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR and Related Policies▼The Fujifilm Group’s CSR Promotion SystemWe established our Approach to CSR in 2006 in view of the 
importance of CSR in achieving sustainable growth in an age of tumultuous changes in the business environment, and of its value not only to top management but to each and every employee. Subsequently, six policy statements (the Green Policy, Social Contribution Policy, Guidelines for Biodiversity, Procurement Policy, Quality Policy and Occupational Health and Safety Policy) have been estab -
lished and implemented.
The Fujifilm Group established the CSR Committee 
chaired by the President of FUJIFILM Holdings. The Committee takes decisions to promote the CSR activities of the entire Group. The CSR Department of FUJIFILM Holdings, which is the Secretariat of the CSR Committee, is responsible ensuring rigorous CSR management by the Fujifilm Group. The CSR Department prepares the ground for various activities, discloses information outside, com -
municates with stakeholders, supports the CSR activities of Group companies, and audits the CSR activities of the entire Group.
The CSR department in each Group Company pre -
pares and implements specified plans according to the overall Group CSR plan. It reviews the annual results and reports on activities to the FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Companies conduct their activities while interacting and maintaining relations with a wide variety of stakeholders, and it is important to listen carefully to their various views and expectations. At the Fujifilm Group, we ensure that we make appropriate information disclosures as well as verify -
ing, at various opportunities, whether or not our business activities are responding to the demands and expectations of all our stakeholders, and reflecting our findings in our business activities. To ensure that our stakeholders’ views are reflected in our CSR activities, we also review them in our Sustainability Report.
In addition to opinions relating to our CSR activities as 
a whole, regarding priority issues such as the promotion of anti-global warming measures, the promoting body for each issue conducts briefings on the content of the activi -
ties and presents the respective report to external parties, to receive their advice and evaluation.* Looking back over our activities and obtaining the views of external parties in this way provides a good opportunity to reexamine our activities. We plan to continue with these efforts to promote our CSR activities in the future.
*See pages 45, 47, 51, 55.FUJIFILM Holdings has positioned the board of directors as the organization for determining basic Group management policies and strategies and other important matters relating to business execution, as well as supervising the imple -
mentation of business affairs. The company’s Articles of Incorporation stipulate that the board can consist of up to 12 directors. Currently, the board has 12 directors, includ -
ing two outside director. To better clarify their missions and responsibilities, the directors have a one-year term of office. The attendance of outside directors to the board of direc -
tors meetings held during the term ended March 2014 was 91% (11 meetings in total). Additionally, FUJIFILM Holdings has adopted an executive officer system to facilitate speedier business execution. Executive officers carry out business affairs in accordance with the basic policies and strategies formulated by the board of directors. Meanwhile, FUJIFILM Holdings has adopted a remuneration system under the stock option program* to make its directors and executive officers, excluding outside directors, share a mutual interest—the effect of stock price fluctuations—with its shareholders. In this way, the directors and executive of -
ficers are in actual fact encouraged to have stronger drive and morale toward achieving higher corporate value.
* Stock option program: Company’s program whereby directors or em -
ployees are granted a right to purchase the company stock as a part 
of compensation for their work, at a price established in advance and within a designated period of time.
Audit
FUJIFILM Holdings has adopted a system of Audit & 
Supervisory Board, which currently consists of four members, including two outside members. Each Audit & Supervisory Board member attends the board of directors, while full-time members attend all Management Council meetings in order to assess our overall business opera -
tions. In addition, FUJIFILM Holdings has the Internal Audit Division with a staff of eight, which is independent of the business execution divisions. The attendance of outside auditors to the Board of Directors meetings held during the term ended March 2014 was 91% (11 meetings in to -
tal). Also, the attendance of outside auditors to the Audit & Supervisory Board meetings held during the term ended March 2014 was 97% (10 meetings in total). The division is responsible for auditing the Group companies, in coopera -
tion with or sharing tasks with the internal audit divisions of such companies, in order to assess and verify that the execution of these processes is fair and valid.
38 39 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014CSR ManagementCSR 
Activity Report
▼The Fujifilm Group’s Communications with Stakeholders★: Further details are included in the Sustainability Report.Topics FY2013   Communication with Stakeholdersp. 34 p. 35
Main StakeholdersMain Issues and  
Areas of ResponsibilityMethods of Communication
CustomersWe have a diverse range of customers, 
from individuals, businesses, corporations to government offices, etc., since we have business deployed all over the world, and we offer such a wide lineup of products, ranging from digital cameras and cosmetics to office printers, medical systems, medicine, highly functional materials and equipment and materials for graphic arts.•	Securing 	the	safety	and	quality	of	
products
•	Provision 	of	services 	and	
environmentally responsible products 
& services 
★ page 46
•	Provision 	of	appropriate 	information 	
on services & products
•	Improvement 	of	customer 	satisfaction 	
levels ★ page 58
•	Customer 	response 	&	support 	 
★ page 58•	Customer 	Center	(liaison	office	for	responding 	to	
inquiries)
•	Usability 	evaluation 	meetings 	and	monitor	
surveys
•	Customer 	satisfaction 	surveys
•	Questionnaires 	at	product 	purchase
•	Showrooms, 	exhibitions 	
•	Holding 	seminars
•	Websites 	and	social	media
EmployeesEmployees working for the Fujifilm Group 
total approx. 80,000 people in 273 companies. They are active all over the world and their composition by country is Japan 49%, the U.S. 8%, Europe 6% and Asia 37% (as of end-March 2014).•	Ensuring 	occupational 	health	and	
safety 
★ page 56
•	Respect 	for	human	rights	★ page 53
•	Respect 	for	diversity 	★ page 54
•	Utilization 	and	training	of	human	
resources ★ page 54•	Providing 	opportunities 	for	dialogue 	with	top	
management
•	Personnel 	management 	division	liaison	&	
interviews
•	Compliance 	&	Sexual 	Harassment 	Helpline
•	Regular 	meetings 	between 	the	company 	and	
labor unions/Health & Safety Committee
•	Intranet; 	internal	newsletters
Shareholders 
& investorsFUJIFILM Holdings has 87,263 shareholders, characterized by a high proportion of overseas and institutional investors. Foreign companies constitute 40.4% of our share holders, while Japanese financial institutions account for 33.8% (as of end-March 2014).•	Maintenance 	and	expansion 	of	
corporate value
•	Appropriate 	redistribution 	of	profits
•	Timely	&	appropriate 	information 	
disclosure
•	Measures 	for	Socially	Responsible 	
Investment (SRI) 
★ page 70•	General 	shareholders 	meetings/Business 	report	
briefings/Briefings for investors
•	IR	conferences/Individual 	meetings
•	Annual	reports/Shareholder 	communications
•	IR	information 	website
•	Liaison 	office	for	responding 	to	inquiries 	
(Corporate Communication Office)
Transaction 
partnersThe Fujifilm Group conducts transactions worldwide with suppliers of raw materials and components and retailers of our products, etc.•	Thorough 	implementation 	of	fairness	
& transparency in transactions
•	Promotion 	of	CSR	issues	in	the	supply	
chain, such as human rights and the 
environment  
★ pages 53, 57•	Briefings 	to	suppliers 	(on	green	supply,	
management of chemical substances contained, etc.)
•	CSR	questionnaires 	(self-audited)
•	Website 	for	exclusive 	use	of	transaction 	partners
•	Regular 	discussions 	with	partners
•	Liaison 	office	for	responding 	to	inquiries 	(in	each	
procurement and sales division)
Future 
generations 
& local 
societiesThe Fujifilm Group has bases in approx. 
40 countries across the world and conducts its activities by treating the local culture and customs with respect, as well as putting efforts into educational support for future generations.•	Contribution 	activities 	which	make	use	
of our main business strengths  
★ pages 36, 60
•	Respecting 	local	culture	&	customs 	
and environmental conservation  
★ pages 36, 60
•	Prevention 	of	fires	and	accidents 	in	the	
workplace
•	Educational 	support 	for	future	
generations ★ pages 36, 60•	Environmental	communication 	meetings/Factory 	
tours
•	Community 	volunteer 	activities
•	Regular 	discussions 	with	local	governments 	(city	
hall, mayor, community association presidents, 
etc.)
•	Liaison 	offices	(at	each	factory	&	office)
•	Dispatch 	of	lecturers 	to	the	academic 	
organization & endowed chairs
•	Environmental	education 	activities 	in	cooperation 	
with NGOs & NPOs
Government 
organizations 
& industrial 
associationsThe Fujifilm Group has businesses in 
countries all over the world. Each of these businesses belongs to several industrial associations and has active relations with the respective government organizations, including participating in collaborations and information exchanges, etc.•	Legal	compliance 	
★ page 41
•	Joint	research 	&	development 	and	
cooperation in public policy aimed at 
the resolution of social issues•	Participation 	in	various	industrial 	committees
•	Participation 	in	the	development 	of	industry 	
guidelines
•	Announcement 	of	public	comments 	through	
industry associations
•	Joint	research 	&	development 	of	government 	or	
industry association
•	Proposals 	aimed	at	the	resolution 	of	social	issues
NGOs &  
NPOsWe are conducting dialogues with NGOs 
& NPOs who are actively aiming for a sustainable society, for the resolution of social issues and environmental conservation.•	Dialogue, 	collaboration 	and	support 	
aimed at the resolution of social and 
environmental issues 
★ pages 24, 37•	Obtain	views 	on	the	Sustainability 	Report
•	Participate 	in	stakeholder 	dialogue
•	Administration 	committee 	of	Public	Trust	Fujifilm	
Green Fund
•	Review	meetings 	on	various	CSR	issues
•	Afflicted 	area	support 	activities 	with	NPO
Showroom as the contact point with 
customersIR information on the web Newsletters for internal communicationActivities with the local community (Fujifilm Kyushu’s 
Sakura Festival )Quality Improvement in Compliance and  Risk Management ActivitiesCSR 
Activity Report
The Fujifilm Group interprets compliance as “more than simply not breaking the law and acting correctly in the light of 
common sense and ethics.” We believe that we achieve compliance by responding flexibly with a keen sensibility to the needs of society.
A lack of awareness of compliance often leads to increased risk. Consequently, compliance and risk represent two 
sides of the same coin. A dedicated department in each operating company of the Fujifilm Group manages risks in a comprehensive and integrated manner, recognizing that promoting compliance and managing the risks associated with business operations is a single continuum. We steadfastly advance compliance and risk-management activities across the Group, with our two operating companies, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, overseeing their respective affiliates in Japan and overseas.
Fujifilm Group Compliance Statement http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/about/philosophy/law/
▼Compliance and Risk Management Promotional Organization (Fujifilm and its affiliates) ▼Corporate Ethics and Compliance Promotion System  (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
Roles:
CSR Division
Compliance and
Risk Management
DivisionRoles:Total Risk Management Committee Compliance Committee
Secretariat
General Manager of Compliance and
Risk Management DivisionSecretariat
General Manager of Compliance and
Risk Management DivisionGeneral Manager of
Compliance and Risk
Management Division1. Prevention of the actualization and expansion of 
risks
2. Undertaking preparatory measures
3. Implementation of preventive activities1. Dissemination of the Fujiﬁlm Group Charter for 
Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct
2. Follow-up to the dissemination of the Code of 
Conduct
3. Response to violations to the Code of Conduct
Chairman: Chairman
˔ Vice chairman: President
˔ Regular committee members:
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for CSR 
management
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for consolidated 
corporate management
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for general 
administration
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for legal affairsExecutive ofﬁcer responsible for PRChairman: President
˔ Vice chairman:
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for CSR 
management
˔ Regular committee members:
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for consolidated 
corporate management
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for personnelExecutive ofﬁcer responsible for general 
administration
Executive ofﬁcer responsible for legal affairs General Affairs
DepartmentLegal Affairs
Department Human
Resources
Department
Organization of Fuji Xerox and its afﬁliatesEthics and
Compliance CommitteeCSR CouncilBusiness execution
(President)Board of Directors
Internal Audit
& Analysis
DepartmentBoard of
Corporate
AuditorsThe Fujifilm Group’s compliance
As a set of fundamental policies, we have formulated the 
Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior. We have also established the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct to bet -
ter guide each employee to act and behave in compliance with laws, regulations and social ethics and make it clear that we give the first priority to compliance in our business activities. We have established a division that is exclusively responsible for promoting compliance and instilling a com -
pliance based mindset throughout the Group within each of our principal operating companies: FUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
We also maintain offices to provide consultations 
and support communications regarding infringement is -
sues related to the Code of Conduct and compliance both within and outside the operating companies. This effort is meant to facilitate the early detection of illegal or improper behavior and ensure prompt and appropriate response measures. All the communications and information are kept confidential and reported to the CSR Committee chaired by the president of FUJIFILM Holdings.
●Fujifilm
In April 2004, Fujifilm established its Compliance and Risk Management Division (CP&RM) as a dedicated organiza -
tion for the promotion of compliance and risk management and the comprehensive and integrated management and operation of internal control.
In recent years, education in compliance including 
information security, export control and harassment is-sues are being reinforced not only for affiliates in Japan but also for top management at overseas subsidiaries. These actions are expected to promote wider dissemina -
tion of compliance awareness throughout the Group. At the same time, the level of dissemination is to be confirmed through employee awareness surveys. With strengthening the enforcement of anti-corruption laws in recent years on a worldwide scale, we are promoting our anti-corruption principles once again throughout the Fujifilm Group. From April 2012, anti-corruption programs are being introduced, chiefly at affiliated companies in Japan and other countries that have frequent contact with government employees. We audit
* regularly to confirm compliance with our programs.
* Note that the Fujifilm Group has never been investigated by adminis -
trative authorities on anti-corruption charges.
●Fuji Xerox
At Fuji Xerox, we have laid down our Action Guidelines relating to ethics and compliance, and we are working to enhance the system and its mechanisms in order to embed it in the actions of each and every executive officer and employee. Since FY2008, we have been conducting gen -
eral legal training using learning tools developed jointly with FUJIFILM Holdings and Fujifilm, and holding “Legal Risk Basic Approach
 Outline of Activities in FY2013
40 41 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Quality Improvement in Compliance and  
Risk Management ActivitiesCSR 
Activity Report
▼System of Collect Information on Risk and Compliance 
Consulting (Fujifilm)
▼Risk Management System (Fuji Xerox)▼Risk Map for Managing Risk (Fuji Xerox)Compliance and Risk
Management DivisionSet up at each
Fujiﬁlm afﬁliateExternal compliance
consulting facility*SupervisorEmployees of Fuji/f_ilm
SupervisorEmployees of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliates
Employees of Fuji/f_ilm Employees of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliatesPresidents of Fuji/f_ilm af/f_iliatesGeneral Manager of Supervising
Division in Fuji/f_ilm
Secretariat of Total Risk Manageme nt Commit tee
(General  Manager of Compliance an d Risk Management Division)
*External compliance consulting facility is set up for employees in case 
where, for whatever the reason, they feel they cannot directly report to company or supervisor, even if they ﬁnd risk-related information.Secretariat of Compliance Committee
(General Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
Compliance consulting facilityInternal consulting
facility
Corporate Executive CommitteeSecretariat
General Affairs
Department
CSR Department
Human Resources
Headquarters
Corporate Strategy
DepartmentRisk Management CommitteeCSR CouncilLarge
Small
Low HighExtent of impact on business
Occurrence frequencyUsually doesn’t occur
(low occurrence rate)About once
every 10 yearsAbout once
every few yearsAbout once
a yearFrequently occurs
(high occurrence rate)Business discontinued for from one week to one month
Pullouts or pullbacks due to a loss of trust by customers, society, etc.Risks managed by the Fuji Xerox’s management
Operations discontinued for from one day to several daysPartly reported in media/Occurrence of personal injuries, etc.Risks managed by umbrella organization
Risks managed by departmentsData and Information   Compliance and Risk Managementp. 62
Assessment Test.” In FY2013, 23,357 employees, account -
ing for 99.5% of those targeted, took part in this training 
program. We have been continuing fraud prevention edu -
cation to prevent the occurrence of misconduct starting in FY2010 and a program on preventing harassment starting in FY2011. In FY2013, a Vietnam version was added to the Local Legal Guide for Persons Posted Overseas (China & Singapore edition) published in 2012 in step with the glo -
balization of our business operations. We have also started to publish an English-language version of Easy Legal News  
that gives an easy-to-understand commentary on cur -
rent affairs news related to legal issues. We take an action to establish basic legal knowledge and to upgrade legal awareness among all employees, including those at our overseas subsidiaries. 
The Fujifilm Group’s risk management
Each operating company establishes and maintains its own appropriate risk management systems. Following pre -
scribed procedures, the operating companies report their risk management activities, including preventive measures and countermeasures against materialized risks to the CSR Committee secretariat. With regard to significant risks in Group operations, the CSR Committee takes a group-wide perspective in examining appropriate countermeasures and effecting their implementation. As a holding company, FUJIFILM Holdings supervises business execution by sub -
sidiaries from the standpoint of its shareholders, while also conducting operations common to the Group in a unified, efficient and appropriate manner.
●Fujifilm
Fujifilm has been implementing countermeasures against companywide risks, which we identified based on the risks faced by each division and set as common issues. In FY2011, in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake and the disaster scenarios envisioned in the event of an eruption of Mount Fuji, an earthquake occurring directly un-der the Tokyo Metropolitan Area or a massive interrelated earthquake (Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai earthquakes along the Nankai trough), the company reviewed its company-wide risks to supplement and strengthen its countermea -
sures. In FY2013, we reinforced measures to exclude anti-social forces and implemented global regulations for information security to strengthen this area.●Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox places priority on actively managing risk, not just in emergencies, but also in its daily business operations, based on its ALL-FX Risk Management Rules. We manage potential risks based on their probabilities and anticipated impact on management, set out staff responsibilities and define and implement measures to deal with such risks. In risk management, we select priority issues each year, with attention given to changes in social and business condi -
tions, the state of our business operations, the likelihood of risks occurring, the impact on management, etc. In FY2013, we have continued to implement general disaster preven -
tion measures for large-scale natural disasters based on our experience with the Great East Japan Earthquake. We identified serious risks that should be treated as top priori -
ties. We deliberate these issues in the CSR Council, and we implement the measures reflected by our experience in disaster areas.Overall View of the Environmental Impact of  
the Fujifilm GroupCSR 
Activity Report
Data and Information   Environmental Aspectsp. 65 p. 66 p. 67
Procurement R&D/Manufacturing Transportation Use Disposal/Recycling
Resource extracting,
transporting, reﬁning,
synthesizing, processing,
and materials transportingElectricity used,
Oil and gas used,
Water usedAtmospheric
emissions Atmospheric
emissions
Electricity used,
Water usedWaste combustion
recycling energy
*PET: Polyethylene terephthalate    TAC: TriacetylcelluloseMaterial
recyclingMaterial
recycling
Aluminum, PET,
Silver, TACDischarged
waterWaste
materialWaste
materialWaste
materialDischarged
waterHeavy oil and
gasoline used,
Electricity usedCO2*2.......1,268 kilotons
VOC ...........0.87 kilotons
SOx.................25.2 tonsNOx..................522 tonsSoot ................4.47 tons
Water *
6..........48.5 million tons
BOD *7..................... 45.0 tons
COD *7...................... 116 tons
Total nitrogen *7......... 247 tons
Total phosphorus *7.... 3.38 tonsAluminum, 
aluminum alloy..... 130 kilotons
Silver ................ 0.408 kilotonsPaper (used for 
products)............ 48.2 kilotons
PET*................... 29.1 kilotons
TAC*.................. 39.1 kilotons
Others ................. 200 kilotonsCO
2*1.......... 2,149 kilotonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2*3............. 411 kilotonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2*4............. 710 kilotonsAtmospheric
emissions
CO2*5............. 200 kilotons
Electricity 1,226 million kWh
Oil*8........................58.0 ML
Natural gas *9.....225 million m3
Water ........ 49.4 million tons
91.5 million tons
72.9 kilotonsElectricity Water Electricity Water
Amount of
cyclic water
used *10Direct control over
the Fujifilm Group’s
environmental
burdensThe Fujifilm Group is working towards recognizing the so -
cial and environmental impact through the material flow 
system summarized resource inputs and emission from our corporate activities in all business process—from material procurement, manufacturing, transportation, to usage and final disposal.Understanding the entire picture of such impact caused by our activities throughout the value chain is helping us to ac -
celerate our efforts towards realizing a sustainable society.
Fujifilm Group Green Policy (Environmental Policy)  
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/greenpolicy/
 *1 Environmental burdens due to raw materials procurement (CO 2 
emitted during the process of extracting, transporting, refining, 
synthesizing, processing, and transporting raw materials) is calcu -
lated for the main raw materials procured.
 *2 Environmental burdens due to product manufacture is calculated based on the total amount of energy (electricity, petroleum, and gas) consumed in the production process.
 *3 For the calculation of environmental burdens due to product transportation, estimates are made based on domestic and over -
seas transportation methods and distances traveled. The typical amount of CO
2 emissions per unit of weight and distance for each 
method and correction factors such as the yield rate are multiplied by the weight of the raw materials procured.
 *4 For copy machines, printers, and fax machines, environmental burdens due to use of products is calculated as energy consump -
tion for a 5-year period for the machines installed this year. For other products, the estimated number of machines in operation is multiplied by typical energy consumption. *5 Environmental burdens due to product disposal is calculated based on the estimation of stress on the environment caused by the disposal of the raw materials procured.
 *6 Wastewater released as a result of business activities
 *7 Volume released to public water
 *8 Total of heavy oil A, heavy oil C, kerosene, light diesel oil, and gasoline (Amounts of the petroleum-based products are summed after appropriated energy conversions, and the total is expressed in terms of the amount of heavy oil A.)
 *9 Total of natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), urban gas, bu -
tane, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (Amounts of the gases are summed after appropriate energy conversions, and the total is expressed in terms of the amount of urban gas.)
*10 This includes the amount of water used in a cyclic manner.
(For the above, data from the input-output table and other sources are used to obtain CO
2 emissions per unit of output.) Outline of Activities in FY2013
42 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 43Promoting Anti-Global Warming MeasuresCSR 
Activity Report
CO2 emissions  
in FY2020
(relative to 2005)Target 30% 
reduction
CO2 emissions in 
FY2013
(relative to 2005)310,000  tons 
reduction
▼Fujifilm Group’s Main CO 2 Reduction Measures
Action area Relevant stage Principal CO 2 reduction measures
Development and dissemi -
nation of products with less 
environmental impactProcurement,  
use and disposal●Multifunction devices (copiers, printers, faxes) with less energy consumption (document field)   
●Energy saving medical diagnostic equipments (medical field)  ●Non-processing CTP plates 
requiring no developing solution (graphics systems field)
Reducing CO 2 emissions at 
factories and officesManufacturing●Fuel shift from heavy fuel oil to gas (Japan)  ●Use of methane gas generated at waste disposal 
sites as fuel (United States)  ●Wind power generation at factory site (Netherlands)  ●Developing 
and introducing energy-saving technologies such as waste heat collection and steam collection 
(production sites in Japan, Western nations, China, etc.)  ●Introducing Solar Power Generation 
(United States)  ●Reducing the usage of energy that is not directly linked with production output 
RecyclingProcurement,  
disposal●Recycling for scrap aluminum from the production of PS/CTP plate and developing and expanding 
the use of a collecting & recycling system of used PS/CTP plate (graphics systems field) 
Efficient distribution Transportation●Paths optimization  ●Improving loading ratio  ●Promote modal shifts  ●Using light and compact 
packaging  ●Promoting eco-drivingSolar energy panels installed at FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc.
▼CO2 Emissions across the Entire Product Lifecycle
▼FY2013 Results for Fujifilm Group
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000CO2 (kt-CO 2/year)
6,000
2005
Base year2010 2011 2012 2013 2016
Medium-term
target2020
Target(FY)1,8281,4873651,112257
2,4321,316481726236
615
646
1,267
2,462253
226
616
464
1,343
2,260710200
411
1,268
2,149534203
449
1,190
2,1694011385,0495,191 5,243
4,9094,738
4,544
3,525
423
929
1,634Procurement Manufacturing Transportation Use Disposal
Medium-term target
Target relative
to FY2005
30%
reduction
0CO2 (kt-CO 2/year)
2,500
2,0001,5001,000
500
Disposal Use Transportation Manufacturing Procurement200710
4111,2682,149
Copiers
Printers
Fax machinesOthers
Medical equipments
MinilabGas
Petroleum
ElectricityOthers
Aluminum
PET
TAC
Copiers
Printers
Fax machinesTotal stress on the environment
4,738  kt-CO 2/year Outline of Activities in FY2013The Fujifilm Group has been promoting activities to reduce CO 2 emissions by setting manage -
ment indicators for CO 2 emissions across the entire product and service lifecycle (from material 
“procurement,” product “manufacturing,” “transportation,” “use” and “disposal”), not only within 
our Group, since FY2007. In April 2010, we set the long-term goal of “reducing CO 2 emissions 
for the entire life cycle of products by 30% by FY2020 (relative to FY2005),” and we are continu -
ing to actively reduce CO 2 emissions in our Group as a whole. Since FY2012, in accordance with 
the General Guidelines on Supply Chain GHG Emission Accounting, released jointly by METI and MOE in March 2012, we also calculate CO
2 emissions based on the Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol (“Scope 3”),* confirm that the CO 2 emissions in the entire lifecycle of products and ser -
vices we have ever evaluated accounts for the majority of CO 2 emissions(Scope3). We will con -
tinue to disclose information regarding CO 2 emissions based on Scope 3 too.
* Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Refers to one of the scopes that are targets for calculation and reporting 
on greenhouse gas emissions by companies. Scope 3 refers to indirect emissions, such as material procure -
ment, manufacturing, transportation, usage, disposal, as well as employees’ commuting and business travel.Basic Approach
Reducing CO 2 emissions across the entire 
product lifecycle
In FY2013, despite our Group’s production output exceed -
ing that of the base year, FY2005, the Group’s overall CO 2 
emissions were reduced by 310,000 ton (6%) from the base 
year level. Our CO 2 emissions have reduced each year 
since the peak in FY2011. While CO 2 emission coefficients* for Japanese electric power utilities have increased by 14% or more relative to FY2005, in the manufacturing stage, we have reduced CO
2 emissions by 219,000 tons (15%) 
through various energy-saving measures and the use of in-house power generators. In the use stage, we made a significant reduction of 402,000 tons (36%) through de -
velopment and spread of  multifunction devices with less energy consumption. In addition, in the procurement stage, we also reduced 111 thousand tons (5%) relative to FY2012, continue to reduce from the peak in FY2011. This is due to the effects of the expansion of closed-loop recycling Promoting Anti-Global Warming Measures
Data and Information    Environmental Aspectsp. 65 p. 66Topics in FY2013   Promoting Anti-Global WarmingMeasuresp. 30 p. 31
▼Energy Strategy Promotion CommitteeAnti-Global Warming Measures Becoming 
Mainstream Across the Fujifilm Group
The Fujifilm Group has made further steady progress in 
implementing anti-global warming measures in FY2013, and it appears that the group has now entered into a new stage. Individual efforts have evolved and are now spreading on a company-wide scale, such as the re -
source and energy usage reform activities that have expanded beyond the production departments and into non-production departments. 
Furthermore, the group’s evolutionary idea of the 
wheeling of electric power system with in-house power was recognized by the government and even incorporat -
ed as a part of the Amendment of the Electricity Business Act. Pioneering to liberalize the retailing of electricity was a wonderful effort that has extended beyond the bounds of a single corporate group. This is all evidence of the group’s further widening of its CSR approach. 
As described in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, 
we have reached a crucial stage in our efforts against global warming. All companies must adopt global warm -
ing countermeasures as a core business issue. It is praiseworthy that the Fujifilm Group is steadily putting such measures into practice in its day-to-day business in a down-to-earth approach and with earnest devotion.
Response to the third-party opinion
The Fujifilm Group is making efforts in energy saving 
in the manner most suitable to the different business activities in our factories and offices. We are also keen to use energy with less environmental impact such as gasification of fuel and renewable energy. Mr. Sueyoshi’s comment, “All companies must adopt global warming countermeasures as a core business issue,” is a perfect match to our Sustainable Value Plan 2016 itself. We fully understand that the Fujifilm Group is expected to achieve its CO
2 emissions reduction targets through achieving 
our business targets.
We continue our business activities with a new view -
point—enabling the Group’s growth to result in favorable effects on the global environment. (
CSR Group, Corporate Planning Division, FUJIFILM Holdings )Third-Party Opinion on  
“Promoting Anti-Global Warming Measures” OPINION
Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi
Special Advisor
UNEP Finance Initiative
Profile
In addition to being involved in UNEP FI, Mr. Sueyoshi has served in various positions, such as committee member on various types of councils on the Central Environment Council, advisor to Kawasaki City and Kagoshima City, part-time lecturer at the University of Tokyo Graduate School, etc. He also works as an external member of the board to companies and engages in efforts to raise awareness on environmental issues and the social responsibility of companies on TV, in newspapers, published works, and lectures, etc.
Energy Strategy
Promotion Committee
Functional Film ProductionCooperation
Other Production/Ofﬁce
Energy procurement
Energy saving technologies
Wheeling system of electric powerChaired by 
Corporate VP in charge of CSRProduction Subcommittee of 
the Fuji Xerox Environmental Committee
Workplace Activity Teams
Cross-section Activity Teamssystem for used CTP/PS plates (plate materials for printing) 
and resource saving by recycling used copiers, etc. 
We will continue to actively improve the operation of 
energy-saving measures across the entire Fujifilm Group in FY2014, for further reductions in CO
2 emissions from en -
ergy use.
*CO 2 emission coefficients: 
In Japan, we referred to the CO 2 emission coefficients for electric 
power utilities shown on the Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s 
website for the greenhouse gas emission calculation and reporting scheme every year. 
For overseas, we referred to CO
2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 
2012 (IEA).
Activities of the Energy Strategy Promotion 
Committee
The Fujifilm Group has been conducting improvements 
on per-unit energy use and per-unit CO 2 emissions at six 
major factories in Japan, which emitted large amounts of CO
2 from production activities, in our Global Warming 
Prevention Committee since FY2007, as well as to reduce energy and CO
2 emissions in our Energy Cost Reduction 
Project including overseas companies and factories from FY2010;	we	achieved 	all	targets	for	both	in	FY2012.	The	
Energy Strategy Promotion Committee was launched in FY2013, as a new promotion force, for the purpose of achieving both CO
2 emissions and energy cost reductions, 
and we are striving to further reduce energy and CO 2 emis -
sions. In FY2013, we actively deployed group-wide energy-saving measures in offices as well as production process -
es, such as energy reductions that is not directly linked with production output (fixed amount of energy used regardless of the production and standby energy consumed during non-production), roll out of energy-saving measures across factories, and introduction of solar power generation in Europe and the United States, etc., resulting in an entire annual energy cost saving effect equivalent to approx. 6%. 
We set medium-term targets for FY2016 in the newly 
formulated Medium-term CSR plan (such as a 10% reduc -
tion of CO
2 emissions compared to FY2005) and we plan 
to accelerate CO 2 emissions reduction activities toward 
achieving our target for 2020. In addition, we also newly set targets relating to reducing CO
2 emissions in the society 
through the usage of our products and services. We intend to continue to promote the contribution for the prevention of global warming through our businesses. 
44 45 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014*3 Formulated by the International Council of Chemical Associations 
(ICCA) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) based on JCIA’s draft.
*4 New perspective for the reduction of GHG: life cycle assessment for chemical products in Japan and worldwide.
 http://www.nikkakyo.org/sites/default/files/cLCA_3_summary2014-3-18_0.pdf
●Fuji Xerox
To minimize the impact of our products on global warm -
ing, Fuji Xerox is reducing the environmental impact of 
both hardware and software. As part of our RealGreen concept for product development, we are trying to com -
bine convenience with reduction of impact to the global environment. We achieved a series of awards, such as the Energy Conservation Grand Prize (awarded by The Energy Conservation Center, Japan, supported by METI) on a total of 12 times (the most times of any company in the industry), etc, as a result. We incorporate energy-saving technologies into the newer models in our entire lineup of products, and by replacing old models with these newer models, we are seeking to the power consumption in our customers’ office.
We also take the environment into consideration in our 
sales activities by providing training to our employees in eco-friendly products and tools such as the Eco-Efficiency Simulator designed to provide a quantitative visualization of an office’s impact on the environment to encourage our customers to select products high in environmental ef -
ficiency. In addition, we are also providing customers with guidance on settings for energy-saving mode and offering services such as energy-conservation simulations and energy consumption visualization for office output devices to assist customers with their energy conservation efforts. 
In our newest models for FY2013, we 
achieved further advances by realizing fast start-up time in 3.1 seconds or less*, by im -
proving fuser start-up performance.
* In the case of ApeosPort-V C3375/C2275 (with 
automatic double-sided document feeder B1-C)
▼Activities to Reduce the Environmental Impact  
Across the Entire Life Cycle of ProductsAggressive introducing and Using the 
Important Evaluation System are Worthy of Praise
The Fujifilm Group is reducing environmental impact in 
wide-ranging fields, from cosmetics, solutions, medical devices, and a recycling system for aluminum PS plates, etc. This shows how product design based on product life cycle, which you have continuously implemented for more than 10 years now, and the vast experience gained based on this, have steadily produced results. Last year, the Fujifilm Group has made the world’s first water foot -
print internal evaluation system. This has already been used to analyze “Developer waste reduction and water reuse unit” and has concretely shown their usefulness for society. This high foresight in constructing an evaluation system in advance of international standardization and already using this in product design is worthy of praise.
The Fujifilm Group is achieving a good balance in both 
continuing to promote this important evaluation system and actively introducing and using this new evaluation system. In the future, I hope to promote environmental innovation strategically implemented in cooperation with the supply chain, not just within your company but involv -
ing affiliated companies too.
Response to the third-party opinion
Thank you for your high evaluation of our continuous ef -
forts over the past 10 years or more in environmentally conscious product design based on product life cycle and our water footprint activity undertaken last year, in advance of international standardization.
We intend to strategically promote the development 
and dissemination of  products and services with high environmental value across the entire Group, by using our internal rule of “design for environment” which takes into account the product development process across the entire product life cycle, while actively introducing and using the new evaluation system.
(Ecology and Quality Management,  
CSR Division, Fujifilm Corporation)Third-Party Opinion on “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services” OPINION
Dr. Norihiro Itsubo
Professor
Faculty of Environmental StudiesTokyo City University
Profile
After heading the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology research team at the National Institute for Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), from 2005, Dr. Itsubo was Associate Professor at the Faculty of Environmental Studies, Tokyo City University, before being appointed Professor from April 2013. He conducts research activities to contribute to the formation of an environmental society and corporate EMS development, through case study research and development of LCA and other environmental impact assessment methods.
Procurement
Logistics
DisposalWhile used by customersManufacturing and sales
Development, production, and sales
Distribution
Zero landfillCustomersProductsPartsMaterials
ReuseRecycle
Development and Dissemination of Environmentally 
Conscious Products and ServicesCSR 
Activity Report
▼Progress of “Design for Environment”
Overall
design
for
environmentFY 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Management
of chemical
substances
contained
Promote
environmental
labelingFormulation
of rulesRevision                 (Addition
of biodiversity
conservation)
Revision of rules
(Visualization of
targets & assessment)
Formulation of
water footprint
calculation guidelinesMaking internal
system to
respond to ABS
Formulation of
calculation guidelines
for environmental
contribution effect
Formulation
of rules
Provision of information
on chemical substancesSelf audit
Ecoleaf Carbon footprint
PLATE to PLATE label (Type II)
*Joint Article Management Promotion ConsortiumIntroduction of JAMP * mechanismsRevision
of rulesRevision
of rulesRevision
of rulesImplement for all new products and upgrade products (FF)
Implementation and utilization
Implementation
and utilization
Promote steady operations
(Obtain information from suppliers, deploy overseas) Outline of Activities in FY2013In the Fujifilm Group, we carry out development of environmentally conscious prod -
ucts based on “Rule for Design for Environment (DfE)”, in the design stage, we set 
targets from the perspective of safety & compliance, the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle), chemical substances contained, energy saving, conservation of biodiver -
sity, etc., considering the entire product life cycle from procurement through manu -
facturing, transportation, use by customer, to disposal and we review the degree of achievement of these targets after development.
Our approach is not limited to materials or equipment, but extends to software 
and solution by our products and services too, and we make efforts to contribute to reducing the environmental burden across the whole of society. Furthermore, we conduct quantitative and objective assessment of environmental impact based on LCA
*, and we are utilizing environmental labels to actively disseminate information 
related to the environment.
*LCA: Life Cycle AssessmentBasic Approach
●Fujifilm
Since 2003, in Fujifilm we have been designing new prod -
ucts and upgrading products by following our “Rule for 
Design for Environment (DfE)” in our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our products.
In FY2013, we calculated nine case studies focus -
ing mainly on the medical field, based on the Internal Guideline to Calculate the environmental contribution for the Reduction in CO
2 Emissions*1 formulated last fiscal 
year, and made progress in the visualization of our envi -
ronmentally conscious measures. We summarized various environmentally conscious measures for products in the life science field to include usability, and have begun making information releases about them on our website
*2.
In addition, in FY2013, we formulated internal water 
footprint calculation guideline, for which ISO standards are currently being developed. Water usage and management are attracting attention because of the spread of droughts and water shortages due to increases in world popula -
tion and climate change, and demand has been increas -
ing for information disclosure about water use as well as CO
2 emissions. Using the guideline, we are conducting 
visualization of water usage across product life cycle, and we will provide environmental information on products relating to both CO
2 and water. Also we intend to use this 
in product development that considers the conservation of water resources. The Fujifilm Group has always paid a great deal of consideration to water management since our establishment, and we are making enhanced efforts, with “Contribution to solving social issues relating to wa-ter through products and services” newly included in the Medium-Term CSR Plan from FY2014. 
Moreover, Fujifilm participated in the working groups 
for the revision of the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA) guideline
*3 (March, 2014) according to the global 
guideline on contributing to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
*4, formulated in October 2013. We plan to con -
tinue our efforts to spread this approach of  environmen -
tally conscious products and services, not only within our company, but throughout society as a whole.
*1 Summarized for visualizing the contribution for CO 2 emissions 
reduction across the entire life cycle quantatively, including during 
customer use.
*2 Development and dissemination of environmentally conscious products and services.
 http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/  
design/healthcare.htmlEnergy Conservation 
Grand Prize
<Fuji Xerox>Received 12 
consecutively
Rule for Design for 
Environment (DfE)
<Fujifilm>All new products and 
upgrading productsDevelopment and Dissemination of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services
Topics in FY2013   Design for the Environmentp. 31
Reduced CO 2 
emissions by 
approx. 270 kg by printing instructions inside of the box for the “ASTALIFT” series.
46 47 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Effective Use of ResourcesCSR 
Activity ReportEffective Use of Resources
Data and Information    Environmental Aspectsp. 65Topics in FY2013   Effective UseofResourcesp. 32
Recycle rate of 
recovered  
used products
<Fuji Xerox>More than 99.5 % 
at all sites
Waste disposal costs 
(compared to FY2010)23% 
reduction
–500 m3 
500–1,000 m3
1,000–1,700 m3
1,700–4,000 m3
4,000–10,000 m3Scarcity
Stress
Sufﬁcient quantities
10,000–Annual water availability per capita for 2025(       shows size of water usage)Japan
Water Stress Map: Mapping Fujiﬁlm Group’s water usage into 2025 Water Stress Map (UNEP)Fujiﬁlm
Fuji XeroxChina/AsiaEurope North America
South CarolinaThe Netherlands UK
Suzhou ProvinceShanghaiHebei Province▼2025 Water Stress Map and 2013 Fujifilm Group’s Water Usage▼Water Usage per Unit  
(usage /revenue)▼Annual Trend in Water Usage, Recycling and Discharge  as Wastewater▼Fujifilm Group’s Water Usage
Japan
88%Asia/Oceania 
excl. Japan & ChinaChina3%
Europe 4%
America 5%0.2%3.0
2.82.62.42.22.01.81.61.41.21.0(Million tons/year/uni2219100 million yen)
2012 2013 (FY)60.0
58.056.054.052.050.048.046.0200
180
160
140
120
100
8060
40
20
0(million tons/year) (per usage %)
*1 Includes water, rainwater, etc. used in the business activities
*2 Recycle rate including cooling water usage2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY)
52.1
50.653.254.154.6
52.7
49.7 49.448.555.5142.0161.6151.3141.7185.2Usage Group total Discharge*1 Group total Recycle rate*2Water input Wastewater discharge
RecycleUse
▼Fuji Xerox Reduction of New Resource Input through the 
Reuse of Parts at the Parts Production Stage*     
(Total for Japan, the Asia-Pacific Region, and China)
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000(t)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY)4,400
2,0002,272 2,3612,834
*CO 2 emission reduction achieved through the use of recycled parts. This represents 
the amount of CO 2 emissions that would have been generated at the production 
stage with the manufacture of new parts, if recycled parts had not been used.Product
development
Recycle and reuseReduce waste to minimum in productionDesign products which generate minimal waste
[Promotion of effective use of resources][Reduce loss in production][Design for Environment]
Reduce loss in production and reduce the occurrence of defectsConsider the 3Rs, “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle”
Manufacturing
Treatment of
emissions
Comprehensive efforts to promote waste reduction
and effective use of resourcesImproving the quality of recycling (Heat recovery     Material recycling), 
and the reusing of resources in products▼Outline of Measurements for Waste Reduction  in Fujifilm Group Outline of Activities in FY2013The Fujifilm Group has always been aware of the importance of effective use of natural resources, as the main raw mate -
rial for photographic film, the main product at the time of our establishment, is the precious natural resource, silver, and to which lots of clean water and fresh air are essential in manufacturing. Since our establishment, we  actively continue with our efforts to reduce the amount of virgin resources, such as by reducing water usage, recycling and reusing water, recovering and reusing silver, and establishing a resource recycling system for multifunction devices and copiers, etc. We are conducting efforts to use resources effectively and reduce waste through measures which take into account the total life cycle of a product, by considering the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) in the product design, reducing loss at the manu -
facturing stage, collecting, reusing and recycling used products, and recycling or converting into valuables.Basic Approach
Measures to reduce waste
The Fujifilm Group is making comprehensive efforts to use 
resources effectively and reduce waste throughout the en -
tire life cycle of its products, from design to manufacturing and disposing. We think carefully about the most effective ways to use resources and reduce waste as much as pos-sible, by considering reduction of resources in products and recycling after use in the design stage, and reducing losses at the manufacturing stage. Meanwhile, we are con -
cerned about waste emitted necessarily in manufacturing too, and since FY2011 we have been involved in project as Fujifilm Group to convert waste in manufacturing into valu -
ables and raise the value of these valuables.
In FY2013, in addition to activities at production sites, 
we have expanded to wastes in office and warehouse for logistics, promoted our measure in the scope of our busi -
ness activities overall.
Since the wastes in office were being outsourced 
with contract in each Group company, the wastes in each Group company in same building (or located nearby) were outsourced to different subcontractors on different schedules, but now a shared Group company (FUJIFILM Business Expert Corporation) has begun to manage  wastes collectively in each area, to operate to unify subcontractors and outsource schedules. At the same time, classification of waste, which had been conducted only roughly due to the low volume, was changed finely, to reduce waste and recover valuable materials. In addition, we are reduc -
ing waste disposal costs through efficient collection and transport and strengthening compliance. We had also been outsourced waste by each warehouse for logistics, but we have proceeding to reduce waste and recover more valuable materials by classifying and outsourcing logistics packaging plastics, such as stretch film etc. that was previ -
ously treated as waste without being separated, due to the low waste volume, to subcontractors unified in each area. As a result of these activities, by the end of FY2013, we were able to reduce outsourced waste disposal costs by 23% compared to FY2010.
We are progressing toward zero emissions overseas, 
by reducing simple incineration or landfill disposals. We have made significant improvements in North America, which was previously behind compared to Japan and Europe (zero emissions rate of over 97%), bringing it to 94%. We have begun to study for improvements in China too. We will continue to grasp the situation of waste dis -
charge in a timely manner and promote continuous waste reduction and effective use of resources, in association with cost reduction activities by optimization for our Group.
Measures to achieve zero landfill from 
products
At Fuji Xerox, based on the approach that “used products 
are not waste products but valuable resources,” we have been introducing resource recycling activities aiming for Infinite Zero Landfill through the maximum use of resources by collecting used products and reusing
*1 and recycling*2 
them.
In the Japanese market, we have accomplished Zero 
Landfill of collected used products by reusing their com -
ponents. We are now broadening resource recycling sites overseas modeled on this achievement. We established recycling bases for the Asia Pacific region in Thailand in FY2004. Further bases were built in Taiwan in FY2007, and in Suzhou, China, in FY2008 to establish recycling sys -
tems. In FY2012, we launched the operation of recycle sys -
tems in Korea, Australia and New Zealand. These systems handle used products of each countries which previously been handled by the Thai site. In FY2013, we achieved the Zero Landfill standard of a 99.5% or more recycling rate in all countries and regions. Due to increased use of reused parts in products, the reduction of new resources input rose from 2,361 tons in the previous year to 2,834 tons, a further reduction of 473 tons. In addition, in terms of activi -
ties to enhance the quality of Zero Landfill, we are improv -
ing the working environment at dismantling processing bases.
*1 Reusing: Either parts are reused as they are, or their materials are 
reused.
*2 Recycling: Components that could not be reused are recycled as a resource for other purposes.Response to water risk
The Fujifilm Group has been managing and reducing wa -
ter usage and recycling and reusing water from earlier, 
but in FY2013, we set Medium-Term Plan relating to wa -
ter resources based on the review of the our impacts for water risk, which is currently attracting much attention. Since the majority of water used by our Group is located in Japan, where water risk is low, and since we have already conducted water recycling in a high level, we set a target of “maintaining water usage per sales* at FY2012 levels.” While continuously promoting the reduction of water usage and recycling and reuse of water, we plan to start studying for awareness and reduction of water usage in our custom -
ers and suppliers for products, in addition to the water us -
age of our company. 
*=Water usage/revenue
▼FY2013 Water Usage  
by Region
48 49 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014▼Activities on Biodiversity Conservation —Outline—Medium to Long-Term KPI and Verification 
for All Initiatives
Since establishing the policy that positions the minimi -
zation of impact due to your business activities and the 
maintenance and restoration of biodiversity as your com -
pany’s social responsibility in 2009, it can be said that the Fujifilm Group’s initiatives for the conservation of biodi -
versity, such as paying due consideration and managing paper procurement and confirming product design and land use, have been put into practice, ahead of those of other companies.
For the purpose of realizing sustainable growth both 
for your company and for society, I would like to expect the following four points. First, similar to leading compa -
nies in Europe and America, I would like to see you set medium to long-term key performance indicators (KPI) for all initiatives relating to CSR, not just biodiversity con -
servation, and verify their progress. Secondly, I would like to see initiatives undertaken in China and other countries outside Japan, which is currently engaged in further busi -
ness expansion. Thirdly, I would like to see further use of the capabilities and potential of staffs in your Group, such as nature guides. Fourthly, I would like to see to face with strategy how to achieve the biodiversity conservation by social contribution activities positioned as investment rather than allocation for the medium to long-term further in 2020 or 2050, etc.
Response to the third-party opinion
We thank for your evaluation of our practical activities for the biodiversity conservation. We also received with inter -
est your comment on realizing sustainable growth in the future for both our company and society. We realized that clarifying “What sort of society we want to create,” with an awareness about biodiversity conservation, is the top priority in implementing this. Therefore, we will begin by first studying our initiatives, to sketch out an image of the society with biodiversity conservation we are aiming to achieve.
(CSR Group, Corporate Planning Division,  
FUJIFILM Holdings)Third-Party Opinion on  
“Biodiversity Conservation” OPINION
Hideto Kawakita
Representative, International Institute 
for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) 
Profile
Joined Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. in 1987. Worked in positions responsible for international recruitment, advertising, and sales support, etc., before resigning in 1991. Later, he worked as the Japanese director of the International Youth Exchange NGO and as policy staff for a member of parliament, etc., before establishing IIHOE in 1994, to support the promotion of CSR and environmental and social communication, the building of foundations for collaboration between NPOs and the government, and the management of NPOs and socially-responsibility oriented companies.
Con/f_irming level of own 
and others’ awareness and sharing perspectives on the issue
˔Conducting a 
questionnaire within the 
Group  
˔Holding study groups and 
dialogue with 
stakeholders, etc.FF: Fujiﬁlm   FX: Fuji Xerox
2005 to 2008
Clari/f_ication of the Fuji/f_ilm Group’s stance and strategy
˔Formulation and 
enactment of the Fujiﬁlm 
Group’s policy on biodiversity conservation
˔Activities to enlighten and 
raise awareness among 
employees2008 to 2009
Launch of concrete measures
˔Incorporation of 
“Biodiversity Conservation” 
into the Fujiﬁlm Group’s Design for Environment for all products (FF)
˔Survey on land use for 
biodiversity conservation 
(FX)2010 to 2011
Formulation of targets for the next level
˔Began formulation of 
medium-term targets for 
Fujiﬁlm Group
˔Expanded procurement 
criteria for its paper 
supplier in an aim to conserve biodiversity (FX)2012 to 2013Forest Experience Program in Kikigaki Koshien
Factories
Products
Social
contribution
CommunicationEnlightenment for FF/regionContribution by 
fund/goods/laborProducts for biodiversity conservationMinimum in marketConservation of
resourcesConservation in regionMinimum impact
˕ Domestic education program within the Fujiﬁlm Group   ˓ Communication meeting with region˓ Contribution through fund (Fujiﬁlm Green Fund)   ˓ Cooperation with region or NPOs and NGOs
˓ Support for environment education projects for the next generation
˓: Measure related to biodiversity conservation (on going)   ˕: Measure related to biodiversity conservation (middle target: plan)   ˔: Measure indirectly related to biodiversity conservationDirect contribution (monitor etc.)˔ Indirect contribution via CO 2 reduction (Solar cell etc.)˔ Energy saving products   ˕ Resource saving / product recycling˕ CSR procurement (connect to BD)
˕ ABS (TMR: Total Material Requirement)˓ Cultivation   ˓ Springs   ˓ Rice ﬁeld (biotope), (Greening)Grasp/measure for impact
˔ Chemicals cont.   ˕ Waste water cont.   ˔ Air pollution   ˔ CO 2 emissions   ˓ Wastes   ˕ Land useBiodiversity conservation
˔ Minimize impact in manufacture [Defense]
˔ Contribution to maintain/recover on biodiversity [Offence]Main activities for biodiversity conservation
▼History of Biodiversity Conservation MeasuresParticipate training 
sessions for nature 
guides until now
<Fuji Xerox>Approx.  
300  employees
Watashi-no 
Shizenkansatsuro  
competition
<Fujifilm>For 30 years  
by 2014• Activities to conserve the water source at each factory
• Co-sponsoring training courses for Nature 
Conservation Educators
Since FY2001, Fuji Xerox has been holding training courses 
jointly with the Nature Conservation Society of Japan, which have been attended by more than 300 employees in total.
• Support to the Monitoring Site 1000
We have been providing high sensitivity negative film for 
sensor cameras used in surveying mammals since 2007.
• Rice Paddy Assistance Team
Regional collaboration activities to preserve groundwater in 
Minami-Aso village. FUJIFILM Kyusyu has been participating in these activities since FY2010.
• Support to projects by NPOs and NGOs involved in 
education on biodiversity conservation for the next generation
Kikigaki Koshien , Watashi-no Shizenkansaturo  Competition, 
Kankyo Nikki , Midorino komichi  etc.
• Support to the Biodiversity Action Award Japan
We have been providing digital camera as “Fujifilm Award” 
through CEPA Japan. Outline of Activities in FY2013The Fujifilm Group has engaged in a wide range of environmental protec -
tion activities for the conservation and protection of biodiversity, based 
upon its philosophy of “environmental consciousness and environmental protection are at the core of our corporate activities.” In June 2009, we clarified our guideline for cross-group efforts to biodiversity conservation and introduced the “Fujifilm Group Basic Concepts and Action Guidelines for the Biodiversity Conservation” (hereafter, “Guidelines for Biodiversity”). Activities both inside and outside the company are being advanced to pre -
serve the ecosystem services that benefit mankind for the future.
Guidelines for Biodiversity  
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/creature.htmlBasic Approach
Since its establishment the Fujifilm Group has conducted 
environmentally conscious business activities, as we have needed lots of clean air and fresh water for the production of photographic film, and this tradition has been passed down to all employees as the Fujifilm DNA. In an internal questionnaire conducted in 2005, we reconfirmed our level of awareness about biodiversity. Then, in 2008, we clari -
fied the gaps between our awareness and that of others in the dialogue with experts and shared issues relating to biodiversity between the executives and managers, and in 2009, the Fujifilm Group formulated its Guidelines for Biodiversity.
Under the Guidelines, since 2010, Fujifilm and Fuji 
Xerox have each been involved in various viewpoints of biodiversity conservation related to their businesses. More concretely, Fujifilm included biodiversity conservation in its Rule for Design for Environment (DfE), while Fuji Xerox began surveys on land use for the purpose of biodiversity conservation at production and product development sites, etc. In 2012, our activities were reviewed and systemized overall, including those being conducted continuously. Not only by minimizing the impact on biodiversity and securing sustainable resources, but by contributing to the mainte -
nance and recovery of biodiversity as the company’s social responsibility, we organized our approach based on the four key elements of “factories,” “products,” “social contri -
bution” and “communication.” From among all the activities conducted for each key element, we incorporated those which we should continue to be aware of as priority issues. We intend to promote measures for the conservation of biodiversity combining business with environmental protec-tion through conducting activities.
In FY2013, for the Nagoya Protocol on Access and 
Benefit-sharing (ABS), Fujifilm has begun a correspondence study, such as confirmation of raw materials that may be involved, etc. We will promote the construction of reliable measures for the Protocol’s entry into force in the future, taking into account also domestic procedures in Japan.
In addition, at Fuji Xerox, where paper is an essential 
commodity, the Paper Procurement Committee was held again as it was last year, and reconfirmed the provision sys -
tem for paper that customers can use with peace of mind. Fuji Xerox formulated the Environmental, Health and Safety requirements regarding paper procurement for suppliers of paper in 2004, and in 2012, Fuji Xerox took a step further to add trading criteria in business activities of our suppliers from CSR perspective, which requires biodiversity conser -
vation and the respect of the rights of the local residents. Fuji Xerox has strengthened the management for paper procurement to our suppliers.Biodiversity Conservation
Biodiversity ConservationCSR 
Activity Report
50 51 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014We believe that respect for basic human rights is a fundamental as -
pect of our compliance and we have clearly stated our commitment 
to it in the “Fujifilm Group’s Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct.” We promote understanding of these concepts by all our employees by asking them to sign the declaration at the end of the Code which clearly states the principles of prohibition of infringement of human rights, discrimination based on nationality, ethnicity or race, religious or political convictions or other beliefs, gender, physical fea -
tures, or social status, prohibition of harassment, protection of privacy, respect and protection of basic labor rights, prohibition of forced labor or child labor, and compliance with and promotion of workplace health and safety. In addition, we also promote education on human rights by periodically holding training seminars on respect for human rights and eliminating discrimination.Basic Approach
With participants of the Conference on CSR and Risk Management
Human rights issues  
considered important  
for the chemical industryConcrete issues
Core operation/Supply chain
Health and safety in the  
workplace●Risks of skin injuries and cancers posed by the 
use of chemical materials.
Community
Use of natural resources●Progressive increase in discharge and leak of 
hazardous materials, water and air pollution at 
manufacturing sites as well as during  transportation.
Community
Voluntary relocation consulta -
tion and compensation●Inadequate compensation on relocation may 
create tensions with local communities when 
developing sites, which may endanger the safety of both corporate and community members.
Key human rights issues 
in pharmaceutical sector Concrete issues
Core operation/Supply chain
Labor conditions●The use of chemical compound or/and pharma -
ceutical products is likely to endanger the health 
and safety of employees.
●During the clinical development stage of phar -
maceutical production, the health and safety of study participants may not be managed properly at contact research organizations.
Community
Use of natural resources ●Sourcing natural compounds may possibly 
heighten tensions between companies and local 
communities.
Community
Community investment●Having positive impacts on public health such 
as rising awareness on diseases and ensuring 
access to medicine. 
Society and government
Relations with poor human 
rights record●Support for public health in state/local commu -
nity may be misused for their political purposes such as propaganda
Consumer issues
Health and safety of patients●Taking positive actions towards the fight against 
counterfeit medicines
●Report delay on adverse drug reactions and delay in recall may endanger health and safety of 
patients.▼Key Human Rights Issues in the Chemical and Pharmaceutical SectorsClassifi-
cationClassification criteria Management practice
C0Prohibited by laws and regulations and management policy(Prohibited)
C1Discontinue usage, reduce amount of usage or reduce emissions based on management policy (hexavalent chromium, formalin, and dichloromethane, etc.)Discontinue usage, or reduce amount of usage or emissions
C2●Notifications and/or approval is required 
by laws and regulations
●Particularly hazardous (carcinogen, explosive, etc.)
●Limited handling based on management policy (lead compounds, etc.)Enclose or restrictive 
management
C3Specified laws or regulations applied, or having specified hazardsManagement based on risk assessment
C4 Classification other than C0 to C3General management (management based on MSDS and laws and regulations)
SSpecially managed substances: No relevant laws, regulations or hazards data but potential risk is concerned.Start research for replacement or reduction of usage amount, emission or exposure▼Classification Criteria for Chemical Substances and Management Practice Based on the Classification
(Classificati on criteria: Ha zard,lawsandregulations inJapanandoverseas, andmanagement policy)Procurement
Acquiring, managing and communicating information on chemical substances 
(using the JAMP*1 framework)Fujifilm Green Procurement  
Standards
Chemical 
productsFunctional  
material productsElectrical and 
electronic products
Upstream Midstream DownstreamManufacturing Sales
●Raw  
materials
●Mixtures
●Parts
●Compo -
nentsEnvironmental safety 
management of chemical substances
Management of 
chemical substances in productsBecause the Fujifilm Group manufactures a wide range of products such as chemical products, functional materials, optical devices, office equipment, and medical equipment, etc., we have established and implement management rules according to the respective composition and manu -
facturing processes of our products, from the perspective of management of the handling of chemical substances and management of information on chemical substances.
Since 2010, in our Medium-Term CSR Plan, we have 
been making efforts for the priority issues of establishing and disseminating the framework to acquire, manage, and communicate information on chemical substances con -
tained in products along the supply chain and enhancing our system to acquire information on laws and regulations in each country and region around the world accurately, and to ensure response efficiently.Basic Approach
Chemical substance management
We are surely managing chemical substances in the 
whole Fujifilm group, including Fuji Xerox and TOYAMA CHEMICAL based on the management rules for handling chemical substances introduced by Fujifilm in 1995.
Since we need to acquire information on newly regulat-
ed substances and substances anticipated being regulated in the future at the early stage, Fujifilm has fully started the operation to confirm information on chemical substances that require attention in product design and development, and information on relevant laws and regulations, by use of the chemical substance information datasheet for raw ma -
terials (JAMP MSDSplus)
*1, which has been widely dissemi -
nated in the supply chain in recent years. We made and updated the Safety Data Sheets (SDS)
*2 for 280 chemical 
products for continued information disclosure.
In order to ensure a precise and efficient response to 
the increasing number of laws and regulations, Fuji Xerox is preparing to introduce a consolidated information man -
agement system for chemical substances at all its affiliated companies (i.e. All Fuji Xerox). In order to develop this sys -
tem to All Fuji Xerox, it has been upgraded and extended  the chemical substance information system which Fujifilm introduced in 2009. At the same time, the risk assessment method defined in the management rules on chemical substances has been revised through trials to match the method adopted at Fujifilm. In FY2014, we will introduce this chemical substance information management system to All Fuji Xerox, and will develop the revised management rules across them.
We will apply the Fujifilm’s knowledge on the manage -
ment of chemical substances to the whole Fujifilm group widely. And we will enhance the communication between companies in the group to ensure the management of chemical substances for the whole group in an effective way.
Management of chemical substances 
contained in products
The scope of regulation for chemical substances such as 
the RoHS Directive and the REACH Regulation is being expanded in each country. We continue our activities to ensure product compliance.
Fujifilm is using the information communication framework proposed by the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP) for the management of infor -
mation on chemical substances contained in products. In FY2013, with an information management system based on this framework, we started to share information on chemi -
cal substances contained in articles with our overseas sub -
sidiaries. We maintain high level of the utilizing rate of the information management system by promoting use of this system in the supply chain and by supporting our suppli -
ers based on consideration for individual situation of each supplier.
For a full response to legal changes, since FY2012 Fuji 
Xerox started a review of the audit method that enables us to assess the state of chemical substances management at our suppliers and assessment of the issues by the sup -
pliers themselves. We conducted audits on all suppliers in FY2013 to assess the management level in each company. In FY2014, we will focus on upgrading chemical substance management at all of our suppliers by providing support and guidance to suppliers whom we judged to request im -
provement of their management.
*1 Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP): A cross-
industry organization established in 2006 to ensure smooth com -
munication and management of information on chemical substanc -
es contained in products throughout the supply chain.
*2 Safety Data Sheet (SDS): Datasheet to supply information related to the characteristics and handling of chemical products. Measures for Implementing Human Rights 
Due Diligence
Following its participation in the Human Rights Due 
Diligence Workshop*1 in FY2012, FUJIFILM Holdings partic -
ipated in the Conference on CSR and Risk Management*2 
held in September 2013 for the purpose of implementing human rights due iligence in the Fujifilm Group. The representatives of various business corporations and we discussed on CSR risks that businesses should be taken into account in human rights due diligence. This confer -
ence was the fourth workshop that the Global Corporate Community of Practice (GCOP) held around the world. The GCOP is an intercompany global platform formed to develop and share best practices in human rights due diligence and risk management.
Following lectures on implementing human rights due 
diligence, we discussed several hypothetical case studies such as “supply chain labor practices (freedom of associa -
tion and the right to collective bargaining)” and “measuring external stakeholder impacts.” In the discussions, the par -
ticipants and we shared the idea that “Even if the suppliers have problems, Japanese companies have a corporate culture that prefers improving together with suppliers than stopping their trades.” The Japanese approach of “grow -
ing together with suppliers” made a strong impression on GCOP members. We will continue to join into various work -
shops to promote a better understanding of human rights due diligence, and apply this knowledge to the activities of our Group.
In FY2013, Fujifilm added some social items, such like 
“identifying the division responsible for dealing with hu -
man rights issues including forced labor and child labor” and “promoting employee awareness on the prohibition of discrimination and inhumane treatment,” on annual self-assessment questionnaire related to business, and then, applied them to Japanese and overseas affiliates.
We will raise awareness of the importance of human 
rights issues while reviewing our assessment items.
*1 “Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop” A platform to raise 
awareness in the field of human rights due diligence and to discuss with NGOs/NPOs and other companies hosted by Caux Round Table Japan. The workshop was held from September 2012 to March 2013. Participated organization: <NGO/NPO> Amnesty International, ACE, ek sathe, Oxfam Japan, CSO Network Japan, Change Fusion, Polaris Project Japan, etc. (11 organizations), <Corporation (Type)> 39 companies from chemicals, financial services and securities, automotives, heavy industries, trading companies, information equipments, information communications, food, think tank, apparel and textile, electrics, logistics, retail indus-tries, etc.
*2 Conference on CSR and Risk Management: Organized by the Caux Round Table – Japan and the UN Working Group on the Issue of Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises participated in by 18 companies in the fields of chemicals, automotives, heavy industries, trading companies, information communications, printing, think tank, apparel and tex -
tile, logistics, etc.  Outline of Activities in FY2013  Outline of Activities in FY2013Respect for Human RightsCSR 
Activity Report Improving Chemical Substance Management
Data and Information    Environmental Aspectsp. 67CSR Activity Report
52 53 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Expectations for the Positive Cycle of 
Support and Contribution that Cultivates Self-Motivated Human Resources
While the Japanese government has now started seri -
ous discussions about empowering female workers, the 
Fujifilm Group, ahead of others, had already been reor -
ganizing its workplace based on two related concepts: “utilization of the female workforce” and “supporting new working styles.” This is worthy of note. Not only focus -
ing on female employees, but also providing all types of workers—including male employees—with the environ -
ment of a “worthwhile” job will eventually lead to the creation of a work place where female workers actively contribute to the business, at the same time achieving the company’s target for its female management ratio.  
In a society where the population is decreasing, every 
individual needs to contribute one way or another. The number of employees with greater family responsibili -
ties, such as child rearing and elderly care, will increase. However, it is possible for a company to secure excellent human resources by pursing an efficient way of work -
ing and thereby attracting willing workers. The Fujifilm Group’s employment system that supports diverse types of employees is highly organized and can be rated as one of the best. I hope that this work environment nurtures employees into self-motivated human resources who can manage their work and private lives in a balanced man -
ner, while improving their working styles, and thereby creating a positive cycle of “support and contribution” within the company. 
Response to the third-party opinion
We appreciate the favorable appraisal of our efforts in im -
plementing diverse working styles in our work places. We believe that pursuing flexible working styles is indispens -
able as a company to be trusted by a range of stakehold -
ers in the ever-changing environment surrounding the Fujifilm Group—including the expansion of our business areas and market globalization.
As pointed out, in order to cultivate self-motivated hu -
man resources who can manage their work and lives in a balanced manner through the will to improve work ef -
ficiency, we are continuing to actively improve the work -
ing support system and nurture a corporate culture that accepts different styles of working.
(Human Resources Division, FUJIFILM Holdings)OPINION
Mr. Naoki Atsumi
Team Leader of the Cabinet Taskforce 
on Birthrate Decline  (Director of Research Department, Toray Corporate Business Research, Inc.)
Profile
Graduated from University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Law in 1992. Appointed to his current post after duties in several think tanks. He has analyzed financial data from some 4,000 companies, making visits to 750 domestic companies and 150 overseas companies. A consultant with expertise in work-life balance and workplace diversity. Topics in FY2013   Effective UtilizationandTrainingofHumanResourcesp. 33Data and Information    Personnel andLaborp. 63 p. 64Effective Utilization and Training of Human ResourcesEffective Utilization and Training of  
Human ResourcesCSR 
Activity Report
Proportion of working 
mothers in female 
employees
<Fuji Xerox>35%
The number of participants of  
the “FUJIFILM WAY” Training  
for overseas subsidiaries
<Fujifilm>573  participants
▼Development of the Global Leaders and Change Leaders▼Fujifilm’s Training for Overseas Subsidiaries
Launch of training programs in each company for change leader development
˔ Launch of training by all Fuji Xerox
˔ Construction of a change leader development 
system by all Fuji Xerox˔ Full launch by 
all Fuji Xerox2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Fuji Xerox
Integrated 
all Fuji Xerox development Afﬁliates and sales 
companies in Japan
Afﬁliates and sales 
companies overseas (Asia & Oceania)2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY
Training for 
overseas subsidiaries
FUJIFILM WAY
Global Regional1st GLS 2nd GLS 3rd GLS
Continuous measures
*GLS: Global Leadership Seminar    *RLS: Regional Leadership SeminarOnce a year4th GLS
FUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
management 
level in North 
America and 
ChinaFUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
directors in 
North America 
and China
FUJIFILM WAY 
Training for 
management 
level in EuropeCompany-wide 
implementation in 
China/Asia Paciﬁc 
region (plan)Europe and 
North America 
1st RLS
Training for managers 
and general 
employees (plan)
Start training in Asia 
Paciﬁc region (plan)To realize the Fujifilm Group’s goal of creating and developing growth businesses and accelerating their global deployment, it is important to develop the talent that will support these businesses and endeavors and to create an environment where diverse staff members can demonstrate their skills. For this purpose, we have set as a top priority the develop -
ment of global and executive talent, with high levels of skills in thinking and acting on one’s own on the premise of a diverse global environment and in overseeing the transformation and growth of the next generation of our business. We have been conducting measures on a Group-wide scale with a worldwide perspective to create and prepare trainings and systems that enable us to identify, develop and promote these talent.Basic Approach
 Outline of Activities in FY2013The groupwork in the 4th Global Leadership Seminar
Human resources development from a global perspective
●Fujifilm
We accelerates our efforts for our initiative to develop global 
talent, based on the idea, “Development and use of talent regardless of nationality or gender, etc.” introduced in 2011. In FY2013, in addition to holding the 4th Global Leadership Seminar, to train global management level employees, the Regional Leadership Seminars, to train regional manage -
ment level employees were held in regional headquarters in Europe and North America. It proved to be meaningful training to deepen understanding about the talent qualifica -
tion required for regional executive talent and provide an overall perspective on the regional business. In addition, for employees at overseas subsidiaries, we have continuously deployed the “FUJIFILM WAY” which explains the common Group corporate philosophy and corporate vision, sums up the ways of working and proceeding with tasks and pro -
vides an image of the sort of human resources we wish to develop as employees. In FY2013, as well as starting this training in Europe, there were many excellent practices of the FUJIFILM WAY from North America and China where the trainings were already held. In FY2014, we will more smoothly operate and deploy the systems for identifying, selecting, developing and promoting human resources that we constructed in FY2013, and accelerate the development of excellent local employees in each region of the world.
●Fuji Xerox
We have long strived to obtain human resources of differ -
ent nationalities and increase the number of opportunities to participate in a work experience program at overseas companies etc., toward enhancing our global responsive -
ness. However, the importance of obtaining, training and using talent that can lead the growth of the global market is growing even more. In FY2013, as part of our measures to striving for growth and reforms for “Changing our Mindset and Organizational Culture Project,” we proceeded with the operation and firm establishment of the new human resources management system. We also constructed and made preparations to operate systems that can identify, train and promote human resources from the non-managerial and managerial level, etc., regardless of nationality, for the development of Change Leaders who will be responsible for growth and change.
In addition, another aspect we emphasize in human re -
sources development is the use of “rotation.” By conduct -
ing planned HR rotations, employees have the opportunity to experience various types of work and environments. As a result, employees can have broader and more di -
verse perspectives, leading to individual growth, corporate growth and the enhancement of our corporate culture. 
In FY2013, we actively promoted human resources 
development measures based on the new system and ex -
panded internships to include India and Singapore, as well as China.Realizing diverse ways of working
●Fujifilm
We continue to engage in efforts to facilitate diverse ways of working. In 2007, we implemented the F-POWER* Project aimed at creating an environment where female employees can demonstrate their maximum capabilities. Holding seminars and arranging a balance between work and childcare, we established a base to allow female em -
ployees to participate actively. In 2010, we expanded and revised the work-life balance support systems with various nursing care and family care leave programs, exceeding the legal standard. 
In 2013, to prevent careers from being cut short by 
childcare leave, we established a system that, in principle, enables employees to return to their previous workplace on their return to work, as well as providing online courses that employees can take at home, to support them in returning to work quickly. Now, increasing numbers of employees are taking English or business skill courses, and we are able to support them in improving their skills and knowledge. In addition to this, we introduced a system targeting employ -
ees who have been forced to leave the company because of unavoidable circumstances, such as a spouse being transferred to a different place of work or due to childcare, etc., that will enable them to re-enter the company. And we introduced a female mentor program to promote informa -
tion-sharing designed to overcome any anxiety over future careers, childbirth and childcare. We will continue to devel -
op our corporate culture and expand our systems to enable each and every employee to make use of their diversity, to actively participate and to demonstrate their capabilities to the maximum.
* F-POWER: Abbreviation for Fujifilm Positive Women Encouraging 
Renovation
●Fuji Xerox
At Fuji Xerox, we consider initiatives of respect for diversity 
are our most important principles to become a company where people can demonstrate their capabilities to the full regardless of gender, and to become a truly excellent com -
pany that offers products and services appealing to cus -
tomers. For this reason, we are committed to more actively recruiting and promoting diverse human resources and to establishing flexible employment that can enable every di -
verse human resources to demonstrate their capabilities to the maximum. We set the target of doubling the proportion of female managers in the five years from FY2012 onward, and are actively working toward this (see page 33).
By transforming their working styles to achieve a work-
life balance that enables working efficiency, we aim to reduce working hours and “realize flexible ways of work -
ing that can support the diverse values of employee.” We believe that it is important for each employee to participate themselves in implementing work improvements, etc., in the process of change, and to provide that experience to customers as a solution service. Third-Party Opinion on “Effective Utilization 
and Training of Human Resources”
54 55 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Occupational Health and Safety Promoting CSR Among Our SuppliersCSR 
Activity Report
Data and Information    Personnel andLaborp. 63 p. 64Topics in FY2013   Occupational Health and Safetyp. 33CSR Activity Report
“Labor Accident 
Prevention Week” held February 17–21, 2014 in Manaus Factory, BrazilWork accident  
severity rate
<Fuji Xerox>0.00
Work accident  
severity rate
<Fujifilm>0.00
Started ethical 
procurement
<Fuji Xerox>2007
Formulated  
the Fujifilm Group 
Procurement Policy2009Founded on the conviction that occupational safety is the cornerstone of busi -
ness activity, and  employee protection and ensuring safety is one of our core 
values, Fujifilm will implement exhaustive compliance with laws and regulations related to occupational health and safety.
Fujifilm Group Occupational Health and Safety Policy
The Fujifilm Group operates its businesses based on the following policy ele -
ments, considering that the securing of employees’ occupational health and safety is the most important and basic element in its corporate activities.
1.   We will consider the employees’ occupational health and safety as a core value.
2.   We will proactively support the maintenance and promotion of employees’ 
health.
3.   We will realize the highest standard for employees’ occupational health and 
safety in response to the demands of society.
4.   We will establish smooth communications among all Fujifilm-related companies 
and their employees regarding occupational health and safety.
5.   We will actively provide employee education and training on occupational 
health and safety.Basic Approach
●Fujifilm
Fujifilm is conducting measures to create workplaces where 
our employees can work in good health and with peace of mind, based on the safety policy at each facility. We do this through raising awareness among employees, activities to prevent fires and accidents, safety inspections at all level from the design, installation and operation of equipment, and checks and improvement of workplaces including by external experts, and safety patrols by the company and labor unions.
In FY2013, we shared information and knowledge on 
worker’s accident and near-miss cases, as well as mea -
sures to avoid their recurrence, which we have been con -
ducting to include Fujifilm’s affiliate companies since last fiscal year. We also promoted further prevention of the oc -
currence of similar incidents. In addition to this, by conduct -
ing mutual safety tours of inspection between factories, we are seeking to raise the standard of safety activities. 
We are also actively conducting occupational health 
and safety initiatives outside Japan. For example, at the FUJIFILM do Brasil Ltda.’s Manaus Factory, Brazil, we hold an annual “Labor Accident Prevention Week” to reinforce employee training. Although this is a government regula -
tory requirement to address accident prevention in the workplace, Fujifilm in Brazil takes it much further by ad -
dressing quality of life issues for employees and conducting health screenings
During the first part of the week-long program, we held 
presentations on labor safety, ergonomics, and healthy workplaces, followed by medical examinations by occu -
pational medicine doctors, dentists and psychologists. A questionnaire to identify each employee’s health condition, lifestyle and level of stress was held, as well as check-ups conducted for blood pressure, glycaemia and dental health. Special emphasis was placed on early diagnosis and treat -
ment of chronic conditions and lifestyle issues, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, stressful lifestyle, sedentary, obesity, and smoking.
●Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox and its affiliate and sales companies are con -
ducting activities with a target of realizing safe and pleas -
ant workplaces and employees who are healthy in both body and mind. In FY2013, one production base attained OHSAS 18001 (occupation health and safety management system) accreditation, and we are striving to manage and improve employee occupational health and safety. 
Regarding the prevention of workplace accidents, each 
factory investigates the causes of an accident through the activities of the occupational health and safety committee, examines measures for the prevention of its recurrence and continuously raises employee awareness, and as a result of this the work accident rate has reached 0.11 (a reduction of 0.2 points on the previous year), and the severity rate is 0.00 (the same as in the previous year). In addition, we also consider the health of our employees to be a significant management issue, and since FY2013, Fuji Xerox has been conducting joint health and safety and health promotion activities in all of its eight sites, which prioritize responses to the five items of lifestyle-related diseases, smoking, mental health problems, risk due to overwork, and workplace ac -
cidents. From FY2014, we have also added early detection of cancer as a new priority item and are conducting infor -
mation provision to employees. Outline of Activities in FY2013 Outline of Activities in FY2013At the Fujifilm Group we not only conduct business activities with 
an awareness emphasizing the importance of corporate ethics and social responsibility within our own company, but we also obtain the understanding of our suppliers. With the goal of conducting such activities in coordination with them, we are enhancing part -
nerships with our suppliers that put in practice the principles of fair and impartial trade. In FY2009, we formulated the Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy, which shows our approach regarding procure -
ment that takes into consideration the concerns of CSR, and we are continuing to make efforts to improve our CSR activities in coordi -
nation with our suppliers.
Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy  
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/procure.htmlBasic Approach
●Fujifilm
Since 2000 we have been making efforts for green pro -
curement, which takes the environment into consideration. 
We later launched our examination for CSR procurement and on the occasion of the formulation of the Fujifilm Group Procurement Policy in 2009, we expanded the CSR self-check by adding society items which matched the Procurement Policy regarding corporate ethics, human rights and labor, etc. with the Corporate Greenness Survey up to that time, and we took the lead by beginning a trial survey of this at 70 of our major suppliers’ companies. As a result of using the CSR self-check which our suppliers conduct themselves, as well as ensuring that they under -
stand our company’s approach to CSR by assessing and providing feedback on their self-check, they are conducting measures to maintain and improve their CSR activities.
In FY2013, we introduced a new web-based survey 
system to improve  efficiency of CSR self-check in Fujifilm’s procurement division and our suppliers. And, we have en -
hanced the questionnaires from the view point of CSR core subjects, such as human rights, occupational health and safety, the environment, fair trading and ethics, quality and product safety, information security and social contribution. In FY2014, we are going to expand the scope of CSR self-check to all business fields and to cover both domestic and international suppliers. 
●Fuji Xerox
Fuji Xerox is making efforts to conduct ethical procurement that takes into consideration the suppliers as well as the environment, human rights, the working environment, etc., not only for production materials, but also for logistics and paper. In implementing ethical procurement, we are con -
ducting measures in collaboration with our suppliers such as holding briefings, conducting self-checks, formulating plans to improve activities based on analysis results and of -
fering support in activities to make improvements.
In the field of production materials, from FY2009 until 
last fiscal year, our suppliers stably achieved the match -
ing rate of 90% or more in the highest priority items in the self-check list. But in FY2013, in addition to the new manu -
facturing site in Hai Phong, Vietnam, the matching rate of new suppliers in ASEAN regions remains low, and we think it takes a few years to improve. In China, persons respon -
sible for procurement, who have undertaken basic training in ethical procurement, continuously conducted visiting ed -
ucation programs. By this program, not only our business partners but also persons responsible for procurement can recognize the importance of ethical procurement, and pro -
mote their activities combining with the QCD optimization.
Continuing on from last fiscal year, in the field of logis -
tics, all logistics companies (81 companies) for ethical pro -
curement within Japan achieved targets of matching rate of 90% or more in the highest priority items. Outside Japan, our CSR promotion activities have been fully launched relating to associate logistics companies from the Asian Pacific region hub warehouse. Issues were extracted from the self-check results, and 64% of the associate compa -
nies improved and achieved matching rate of 90% or more for the highest priority items.
Conflict minerals
Fujifilm has declared that no intention to use the minerals mined or refined by illegal practices and no intention to take part in directly or indirectly financing or benefiting illegal groups. In FY2013, each division of Fujifilm responded to customer inquiries in accordance with the internal guide -
line, using the EICC/GeSI template which is a common for -
mat for the electrical, electronic, and automotive industries. We continue to disseminate the template throughout the entire supply chain.
In addition, in FY2012, at Fuji Xerox, in cooperation 
with our supply chain, we prepared to launch a mineral his -
tory survey, and in December 2013, we reported the survey results to suppliers of OEM products. In FY2014, we will endeavor further improve data accuracy.
“Labor Accident Prevention Week” in 
Manaus Factory, BrazilFuji Xerox’s CSR Management Guidelines for Suppliers 
and CSR Self-Check List
56 57 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014The label of the 
health drink “Beauty Fighter” was changed to one that can easily be removed, significantly reducing the hassle when disposing of glass bottles.Products and Services which Reflect  Our Customers’ ViewsProducts and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ ViewsCSR 
Activity Report
▼System for Responding to Customers (FUJIFILM Corporation and its domestic affiliates)* J.D. Power Asia 
Pacific 2013 Ja-
pan Color Copier Customer Satis -
faction Study
SM 
and 2013 Japan Color Printer Cus-tomer Satisfaction Study
SMColor Copier Customer Satisfaction 
StudySM and Color Printer Customer 
Satisfaction StudySM
<Fuji Xerox>Highest for the four 
consecutive years
Inquiries and orders
<Fujifilm>Approx. 2 million
ISO 10002 (International Standard for Complaints Handling Management System)
Back to “Customers’ opinions”Customers’
opinionsConsiderationReﬂecting
customers’ opinionsConsultation facility (only B to C)
Requests
Proposals
Remarks
OrdersTop
management
Improving
products and
services
Adopting new
products and
servicesDivision
heads
Consideration
by relevant
divisionsMarketing
and sales
Design
R&D  
 Service Station Three in Japan: Around 30  staffCall Center for the Healthcare Laboratory
Around 170  staff
Around 10  staffCustomers Communication CenterAround 10  staff
Domestic marketing divisions, Domestic sales companiesFUJIFILM SQUARETechnical Support Center
Around 40  staff(FINEPIX Support Center, FDi Support 
Center, FUJIFILM Mall Support Desk)
Number of
customer inquiries:
Around 2 million
inquiries per yearInteractive
communicationReports Feedback 
Letters, telephone calls,
e-mails, company visits,
and in retail outletsInquiries
Each consultation facility manages information 
such as comments and inquiries in a databaseBy attaching a full-color 
scanner with a USB cable and putting it on a desk, documents can be set and scanned while sitting down and copy operation is also possible. Persons using a wheelchair are also able to operate it.Topics in FY2013   Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views
p. 35
▼Mechanisms for Communicating with Customers (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
▼Fuji Xerox’s CS Program (Improvement activities based on the CS surveys) ▼FY2013 External Appraisals  
(Fuji Xerox)Top management’s CS activities
Decisions on companywide policies and methods for resolving important issues
by the Senior Vice President-chaired CS Executive Meeting, etc.Customers (ALL VOC)
Integrated customer support center
Customer Information Center (general contact)
Customer Contact Center
(Machine maintenance/Consumables)*25,964  cases
4,141,483  casesEmployees of Fuji Xerox and its afﬁliates
who interface with customers
VOC (Voice of Customer)
Mechanism for comprehensively collecting 
information from customers
*In FY2013, promoting multiple reception system for maintenance and consumables, the both numbers were combined.Market
researches
Appropriately
conducted
CS programs
Fuji Xerox Users 
CS Surveys
Benchmarking 
CS SurveysApprox. 86,000  cases
Approx. 13,900  casesOfficial
website
CS improvement activities by each core group
Elimination of all complaints and claims, improvement of operating processes based on
opinions and requests strengthening of product planning ability, etc.Strengthening of relationships with individual customers, elimination of all complaints and claims,
improvement of operating processes based on opinions and requests, etc.CS improvement activities at customer contact points
PDCA(complaints, claims, requests, inquiries, etc.)Daily customer communication Changes in the environment surrounding
customers, economic trends, etc.Customer evaluation
255,000  cases
Complementary relationsThe Two CS ProgramsObjectives for the Use
of Survey Results
˔⦇˔⦉
˔⦉˔⦖
˔⦇˔⦖˔⦊
˔⦊Competitive Benchmarking Program
Fuji Xerox Users CS ProgramCompany-wide improvement
activities as well as activities
by each site and function
Customers1) Competitive Benchmarking Survey
2) Fuji Xerox Users CS SurveyActivities linked to grasp the CS market position, 
enhance our strengths, and improve on our weaknesses.
Promote improvements based on customer 
evaluations and enhance relationships with individual customers.CS improvement activities 
extracted from issues
when compared with 
competitive companies
CS improvement 
activities based on 
individual customer 
evaluationsThe IT Consulting/Upstream Design Services category of 18th Customer Satisfaction Survey (August 22, 2013 issue)The document equipment service 
provider segment of the 2013 Japan IT Solution Provider Customer Satisfaction Study
SM
The 2013 Japan Color Copier Customer Satisfaction Study
SM 
and the 2013 Japan Color Printer Customer Satisfaction Study
SM
Top rankingHighest for
the four
consecutive
yearsHighest for
the second
consecutive
yearsJ.D. Power Asia Paciﬁc
Nikkei Computer* Efforts on usability    http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/
preservation/design/healthcare.html Outline of Activities in FY2013As we declare in our corporate philosophy, the Fujifilm Group aims to provide 
the best quality products and services which are safe, appealing to customers and provide them with peace of mind, by basing our management on “Customer Satisfaction (CS).” In order to achieve customer satisfaction, it is important to ob -
tain the views of a wide range of customers and to have a mechanism in place for effectively reflecting these in our products and services. For this purpose, we pay special attention to communicating with our customers at customer centers which are our point of contact with them. We aim to correctly grasp their views, as well as seek to respond in a speedy, kind, accurate and fair manner, and we are construct -
ing a system to link these views to improvements in product development and our work processes.Basic Approach
Efforts to raise Customer Satisfaction (CS)
●Fujifilm
Since Fujifilm deploys its businesses in a wide range of 
fields, it has a wide variety of customers, from compa -
nies and hospitals to regular consumers, and it responds to their views according to the special characteristics of each product respectively. Each customer center reports our customers’ proposals and requests to the respective product departments, and they appraise the contents and consider them in the development and planning of new products and in improvements to existing products and services. In FY2013 too, based on requests received at our Customer Center, we have been reviewing the contain -
ers for our cosmetics and the labels of our health drinks, etc. and making improvements.* In addition, in 2013, we launched a directly-managed photograph store, that en -
ables customers to enjoy photographs in new ways, facili -
ties that enable people to experience the future of printing, and an Open Innovation Hub (see page 34) that creates new values in co-creation with our business partners, and we intend to have direct discussions with our customers to further improve the products.
●Fuji Xerox
At Fuji Xerox, we believe that customer satisfaction (CS) is fundamental to all our corporate activities. It is important to know the demands and expectations of customers in order to enhance customer satisfaction. For this reason, we place emphasis on creating opportunities and points for commu -
nication with customers such as by means of the following five mechanisms to respond sincerely and directly to the voices of customers: (1) Call centers (main contact point for	inquiries); 	(2)	Voice	of	Customer 	(VOC)	(mechanism 	for	
comprehensively 	collecting 	information 	from	customers); 	
(3)	Official	website;	(4)	Various	types	of	market	researches; 	
and (5) CS programs (improvement activities based on CS surveys). Furthermore, within the company, we have con -
structed a 3-layer CS system comprising ‘CS improvement committee,’ ‘CS Improvement at Customer Contact Points Committee and the Quality Review Committee’ and ‘CS Executive Meeting,’ to promote our CS activities. In FY2013 too, as a result of our company-wide initiatives aiming to obtain the trust of customers we have received various rec -
ognition from major external institutions.Manufacturing which responds to the needs 
to a wide variety of customers
●Fujifilm
In order to provide easier products to the customers, the 
Usability Design Group which is responsible for product design has been assessing products based on their us -
ability, from the perspective of “ease of use” since 2001. As well as selecting multiple assessments by users based on consideration of the target and intended usage, etc. of the product, this group also conducts verification, etc. in the workplace of use. In cases of products which we plan to deploy globally, we conduct verification by country based on the differences in culture and environment, etc. and use the results of this analysis in product design. In 2013 too, we conducted usability evaluation centered on medical systems, such as X-ray diagnostic imaging systems, etc. We intend to continue to pursue “ease-of-use” for custom -
ers and are proceeding with product development.
●Fuji Xerox
For us, “accessibility” refers to putting something that can -
not be used in a state so that it can be used, while “usability” refers to making a part that is difficult to use more usable. We think of expanding the target customers to enable “user diversity” as being “universal design,” and we are currently developing products that aim to enable “anyone and every -
one to use them by themselves.” For example, when copy -
ing, it is important that a customer can conduct a series of operations such as authentication, setting the manuscript to be copied, selecting functions, output, and replacement of paper. If someone is unable to do even just one of these, they will have to give up or ask someone else for help.
In developing our products, we have collected informa -
tion from listening to and visiting customers, etc. We de -
sign, develop and conduct evaluations in operability testing of products based on various internal guidelines that reflect or are in collaboration with JIS or the ISO, and enabling de -
signers to experience for themselves simulations of operat -
ing a product from a wheelchair or with poor eyesight.
Instruct to print 
scanned documentPrint
DocuScan C4260/DocuScan C3210USB  connection
ApeosPort-V C7775 series/DocuCentre-V C7775 series
58 59 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Integration of Business and Social Contributions
CSR Activities in FY2013   Social contribution Activities Across the worldp. 36 p. 37Data and Information  
Sustainability Accounting (LaborEnvironment andSocial 
BenefitAccounting, Environmental Accounting)p. 69CSR 
Activity Report
To mark the close of the “United Nations Decade of 
Education for Sustainable Development, 2005–2014 (UNDESD),” in Nov. 2014, “UNESCO World Conference on Education for Sustainable Development (ESD)” will be held in Nagoya City. The Fujifilm Group continues to sup -
port education for building a long-term sustainable soci-ety, such as with its Kikigaki Koshien  and Kids’ ISO 14000 
program, etc.Volunteer activities 
during working hours7,210  hours
Cost for social 
contribution activities*Approx.  
1.1 billion yenɾ NGOs/NPOs
ɾ Charity organizationsɾ Local communities
ɾ Educational institutionsɾ Public organization
ɾ Employee/familyThemes (targets) Major ﬁelds
Cooperation and collaboration˔Social contribution through 
business operations
˔Support for the education of the next generation
˔Environmental conservation and biodiversity conservation˔Research and education
˔Culture, arts and sports
˔Health
˔Environmental conservationSocial contribution through
business operations
Support for the education of
the future generation
Environmental conservation
and biodiversity conservationConnecting Photo Project (Fujiﬁlm)
Creating digital archives of cultural assets (Fujiﬁlm)“PHOTO IS”—30,000 person Photo Exhibition (Fujiﬁlm)Album Café (Fujiﬁlm)Restoring Ancient Manuscripts (Fuji Xerox)Pink Ribbon Campaign (Fujiﬁlm)
Photo class for young people (Fujiﬁlm)
Support for the publication of large-font textbooks 
(Fuji Xerox)
Support for the education in emerging countries  
(Fuji Xerox)
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Setsutaro Kobayashi 
Memorial Fund (Fuji Xerox)
Fuji Xerox Print Collection (Fuji Xerox)Special Olympics (Fuji Xerox)
Kikigaki Koshien  (Fujiﬁlm)
Midori-no-komichi Kankyo Nikki  (environmental diary) 
(Fujiﬁlm)“Kids’ ISO 14000” program (Fuji Xerox)
Charitable Trust Fujiﬁlm Green Fund (Fujiﬁlm)
Minamiaso Suiden Otasuke-tai  (planting rice project) 
(Fujiﬁlm)
Volunteer tree planting activity in China (Fujiﬁlm’s 
labor union)
Training sessions for nature guides (Fuji Xerox)High school students from across Japan participate Kikigaki Koshien 
to interview experts and masters about a ways of living, knowledge and techniques etc. relating to the seas and the forests.▼Social Contribution Activities Continued by the Fujifilm Group* Cost for future 
generations, communities, international communities, and NPOs and NGOs 
Promotion of ESD through 
support for the education of the future generation Outline of Activities in FY2013The Fujifilm Group is committed sincerely to contributing to the 
sustainable development of society in aspects of working to -
gether with local communities as a good corporate citizen and responding sincerely to the demands and expectations of those communities. In 2008 we formulated the Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy, based on which we are conducting activi -
ties focusing on the fields of research and education, culture, arts and sports, health and environmental conservation through cooperation and collaboration with NGOs/NPOs, local com -
munities and others and in active support of volunteer activities conducted by employees.
Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy  
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/society.htmlBasic Approach
The Fujifilm Group contributes to society through its busi -
ness operations while interacting proactively with local 
communities as a corporate citizen, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of society. In addition to distinctive activities utilizing the unique characteristics of the Group, such as creation of archives of cultural assets and artistic works (record storage), education aid in emerg -
ing nations, restoration of historical manuscripts and pro -
duction support in publishing of large-font textbooks, we continuously implemented various activities in an environ -
mental and other education assistance and in promoting coexistence with local communities. There are workshops for children to learn the pleasures of taking photo and pho -
tography, Pink Ribbon movement to raise awareness of the importance of early detection, diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer and others being organized in Asia, Europe, the United States and other parts of the world, as well as medical equipment supply to emerging nations and disas -
ter areas.
Additionally, internal schemes have been developed, 
such as volunteer leave, to create an environment and sys-tems for raising the volunteer spirit among each and every employee.
These activities have continued in FY2013. Recovery 
assistance for areas devastated in the Great East Japan Earthquake continues with energy and has developed to the inception of Tono Miraizukuri College (Tono Future Creation College) and other activities. The Group will con -
tinue to move forward in social contribution activities to solve social issues, by taking advantage of our business operation and with attention to communications and part -
nerships with our stakeholders.
Data and  
Information
Data and Information chiefly 
presents fundamental data on the Fujifilm Group’s CSR ac-tivities and quantitative data in the areas of personnel and general affairs, the environ-ment, and so forth, promoting an objective and concrete un -
derstanding of our activities.
Compliance and Risk Management ................................................ 62
Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation) ................................ 63Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) .................................................... 64Environmental Aspects .................................................................... 65
Priority Targets............................................................................ 65Anti-Global Warming Measures ................................................. 65Energy-Saving Measures ........................................................... 66Environment Conscious in Logistics .......................................... 66Conserving Resources Measures .............................................. 66Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions ............................... 67Pollution Prevention Measures ................................................... 67Legal Compliance Measures ...................................................... 67
Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and  
Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting) .................. 68
Domestic and International Appraisals ........................................... 70
61 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 60 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Compliance and Risk ManagementData and 
Information Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)Data and Information
Compliance
Training namesIntended audience (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
Content of education2013  
results Executive 
officersManagersGeneral 
employeesContract 
employeesOther 
employees
All Fuji Xerox Labor Management and Code 
of Conduct Training WBT (Web-basedTraining) 
①: Importance of Labor 
Management in Business Management○
(mandatory)○
(optional)Training to disseminate the importance of Labor Management that is the foundation of business managementOnce,  9,765 participants
All Fuji Xerox Labor Management and Code of Conduct Training WBT 
②: Understanding 
the Code of Conduct and Preventing Harassment○
(mandatory)○
(mandatory)○
(mandatory)○
(optional)○
(optional)Understanding the All Fuji Xerox’s Code of Conduct and preventing harassment. A harassment prevention workshop is held after WBTOnce,  25,144 participants
All Fuji Xerox Labor Management and Code of Conduct Training WBT 
③: Reaffirning  
Non-competition○ ○ ○Correct understanding of non-competition and action according to the rule leads to All Fuji Xerox business continuity and developmentOnce,  21,457 participants
New executive officer training
○Group training on directors’ management duties and responsibilities, corporate laws, and risk management—including risks concerning general affairs, human resources, etc.Once,  37 participants
New administrator training
○Group training on compliance in labor management (importance and necessity of labor management, corporate misconduct, breaches of workplace discipline, etc.)Six times,  348 participants
Basic training for new employees
○
(new  
employee)Group training for legal compliance that maintain the Basic Corporate Quality by understanding All Fuji Xerox basic CSR policies and activitiesOnce,  437 participants
Basic training on laws: WBT
○ ○ ○ Training on basic legal knowledge utilizing the InternetOnce,  23,357 participants
Risk management training: WBT
○ ○ ○ ○ ○Basic training on risk management (including information security) utilizing the InternetOnce,  approx. 30,000 participants■Compliance education (Fuji Xerox in Japan)Intended audience Details 2013 results
Top management (Fujifilm) Overall compliance (by external instructors) None (as appropriate)
Executive officers of Fujifilm and its affiliates Overall compliance (by external instructors) Once, 80 participants
Managerial personnel  (Fujifilm and its affiliates)Business ethics, customer-orientation, communications, etc. (by CP & RM*) 6 times, 120 participants
Examples of corporate misconduct, punitive actions, consulting facility,  risk reporting system, etc. (by CP & RM*)50 times, 3,000 participants
New managerial personnel  (Fujifilm and its affiliates)Overall compliance  (by corporate executive officer in charge of CSR/CP & RM manager)Once for each,  70/50 participants
All employees (Fujifilm and its affiliates, including agency contracted employees)Discussions based on compliance case studies (by managerial personnel) All divisions
New employees (Fujifilm)Basic knowledge of compliance, employee code of conduct, corporate rule, consulting facility, etc. (by CP & RM
*)Once, 100 participants■Compliance education (Fujifilm in Japan)
*CP & RM: Compliance & Risk Management Division of FUJIFILM Corporation
Risk Management
Certification Certified affiliates
P-Mark*1FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Imaging Systems Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Techno Service Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Learning Institute Inc.FUJIFILM Imaging Protec Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Media Crest Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Service Link Co., Ltd.Certification Certified affiliates
ISMS*2FUJIFILM Global Graphic Systems  
Co., Ltd.
FUJIFILM Software Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Imaging Systems Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Imaging Protec Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Business Expert CorporationFuji Xerox Co., Ltd.  
(Global Service Sales)
Fuji Xerox domestic sales representative and 
sales companies
Fuji Xerox InterField Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Information Systems Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Prefectural Dealers  
11 companies (12 offices)
Fuji Xerox of Shanghai LimitedFuji Xerox Korea Company LimitedFuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.Fuji Xerox Service Creative Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Eco-Manufacturing (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox (Thailand) Co., Ltd.■Acquisition of P-Mark and ISMS
*1 Privacy Mark (P-Mark): A mark granted by the Japan 
Information Processing Development Corporation (JIPDEC) 
to companies in which personal information is handled appropriately. *2 ISMS: Certification regarding the overall management framework for information including personal information (Information Security Management System).Employment
Labor
FY Item
2007• Revisions of the support system for encouraging a good work-life balance
• Revisions of policy on providing condolence money
2008• Revisions of the support system for encouraging a good work-life balance• Introduction of work regulations adapted to the citizen judge system
2009• Transaction from approved retirement annuity system to defined-benefit corporate pension system   • Revisions of retirement benefits   • Revisions of some employee systems
2010• Expansion of the childcare leave program   • Creation of the family care leave program   • Revisions of some employee systems   • Expansion of the child medical care leave program   • Increase in the upper limit on the number of times half-day leave can be taken
2011 • Revision of employees systems
2012• Revision of travel expenses   • Revision of employees systems    • Revision of overseas working conditions   • Revision of re-employment after retirement
2013• Revision of work regulations, wage rules and other labor-related regulationsFY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Leave of absence for nursing care5 (Male 3, 
Female 2)5 (Male 0, 
Female 5)2 (Male 1, 
Female 1)2 (Male 2, 
Female 0)5 (Male 1, 
Female 4)
Leave of absence for childcare30 (Male 1, 
Female 29)55 (Male 1, 
Female 54)34 (Male 2, 
Female 32)52 (Male 5, 
Female 47)42 (Male 1, 
Female 41)
Leave of absence for volunteer work0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)
*Number of employees who began a leave of absence during the relevant fiscal year.■Number of employees taking a leave of absence*
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Nursing care leave8 (Male 5, 
Female 3)3 (Male 1, 
Female 2)5 (Male 3, 
Female 2)13 (Male 6, 
Female 7)16 (Male 9, 
Female 7)
Childcare leave1 (Male 0, 
Female 1)4 (Male 2, 
Female 2)2 (Male 1, 
Female 1)2 (Male 0, 
Female 2)9 (Male 6, 
Female 3)
Child medical care57 (Male 6, 
Female 51)63 (Male 10, 
Female 53)55 (Male 5, 
Female 50)71 (Male 11, 
Female 60)108 (Male 27, 
Female 81)
Volunteer work leave0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)35 (Male 26, 
Female 9)1 (Male 1, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)
*Number of employees who began a leave during the relevant fiscal year.■Number of employees taking a care leave and volunteer work leave *
■Revisions to systems operating in accordance with agreements between the labor union and the companyFY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Employment of  the challenged*1 1.72% 1.77% 1.81% 1.96% 2.01%
Re-employment*2 18 24 33 29 10
*1 Data up to April 30 for each fiscal year
*2 Re-employment refers to employees re-employed after retirement.■Employment of the challenged and re-employment
Union members Proportion of union membership Average age of union members
4,965 75.5% 39.8
*Based on the number of regular employees (6,573)■Composition of labor union membershipAs of March 31, 2014
As of March 31, 2014Giving 
birth and 
childcare 1.  Systems catering for pre- and post-birth requirements
 2.  Leave of absence for childcare
 3.  Use of stock leave for childcare
 4.  Systems for employment while raising children
 5.  Three-person interview at the time of returning to work from childcare leave
 6.  Child medical care leave program (1 relevant child: 6 days per year; 2 or more children: 11 days per year)
 7.  Reduced work hour program (child in the third grade or lower)
 8.  Use of stock leave for fertility treatment
 9.  Leave of absence for fertility treatment
 10.  Exemption from restrictions on non-scheduled hours worked and from work on holidays
 11.  Reinstatement to same workplace after leave of absence for childcare
Nursing 
care 1.  Leave of absence for nursing care program
 2.  Nursing care leave program (1 care recipient: 6 days per year; 2 or more care recipients: 11 days per year)
 3.  Use of stock leave for nursing care
 4.  Systems for employment while caring for a family member
Other 1.  Leave of absence for volunteer work, Using of stock leave for volunteer work
 2.  Use of stock leave for self-development
 3.  Active Life Leave 
 4.  Flextime
 5.  Discretionary labor system
 6.  Leaving the office on time (1 day per week)
 7.  Re-employment Program
 8.  Female Mentor Program■System for a good work-life balance
●In response to the 2010 amendment to Child Care and Family Care Leave Law, programs 
for supporting a balance between work and childcare or family care have been improved, and programs that exceed legal requirements are now in place, such as the improved child medical care leave program and the newly introduced family care leave program.
●Stock leave is a system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave time up to 60 days. Accumulated leave days may be used for treatment needed for personal health problems, rehabilitation, childcare, nursing care, and volunteer activities.Regular  
employees6,573<Breakdown>
General employees: 5,095  
(Male: 4,051, Female: 1,044)
Managerial personnel: 1,362  
(Male: 1,336, Female: 26)
Senior expert: 116 (Male: 115 , Female: 1)
Non-regular 
employees335<Breakdown>Temporary employees: 258,  Part-timers: 9,Employees re-employed after retirement: 21,  Other (Contract employees, etc.): 47As of March 31, 2014
■Composition of the Fujifilm workforce
*1 As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the 
beginning of April, 2014.
*2 Number of mid-career recruitment represents those from April 2013 to March 2014.■Recruitment
New graduate 
recruitment  
(FY2014)69*1 <Technical positions> Male 32, Female 6 <Administrative positions> Male 20, Female 7<On-site recruitment> Female: 4
Mid-career 
recruitment  3
*2Male 3■Status of regular employeesAs of March 31, 2014
Average 
ageAverage length of 
employment (years)Average number 
of dependentsAverage annual 
salary*1Utilization of 
paid leave*2Turnover 
rate*3
41.8Male: 17.5 
Female: 18.9 1.48.3  
million yen61.5% 1.8%
*1 Average annual salary is calculated for the period from January 1, 2013 to December 
31, 2013.
*2 Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period from 
October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013.
*3 Turnover rate =Attrition + Retirement + Voluntary + New start for senior employees program 
Annual average number of employees at FUJIFILM Corporation (non-consolidated)
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Work accident rate*10.05 0.31 0.00 0.09 0.11
Work accident severity*20.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.00■Work accident rate and work accident severity
*1 Work accident rate =                                                                                   × 1,000,000
*2 Work accident severity =                                                       × 1,000Number of employees involved in work accidents
Gross number of hours worked
Number of workdays lost
Gross number of hours worked
62 63 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Environmental AspectsData and 
Information Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)Data and Information
Employment
LaborRegular 
employees9,154<Breakdown>
General employees: 6,752 (Male: 5,566, Female: 1,186)Managerial personnel: 2,297 (Male: 2,193, Female: 104)Executive officers: 23 (Male: 23, Female: 0)Contract employees: 82 (Male: 55, Female: 27)
Non-regular 
employees785<Breakdown>Temporary employees: 238, Part-timers: 7,  Employees re-employed after retirement: 539, Other (Contract employees, etc.): 1■Composition of the Fuji Xerox workforce
New graduate 
recruitment (FY2014)126*1 <Technical positions> Male 45, Female 18<Administrative positions> Male 38, Female 25
Mid-career recruitment   45*2Male 36, Female 9
*1 As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the 
beginning of April, the number in the chart above represents new high school/junior 
college graduate recruitment (Male 0, Female 0) at the beginning of April 2014.
*2 Number of mid-career recruitment represents those from April 2013 to March 2014.■Recruitment
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Employment of persons with 
disabilities*1 1.89% 1.86% 2.19% 2.08% 2.07%
Re-employment*2423 517 508 485 524
*1 Data up to March 31, 2014
*2 Number of re-employed workers revised to real figures up to the day following the 
end of each fiscal year (March 31)■Employment and re-employment of persons with disabilitiesAs of March 31, 2014
Union members Proportion of union membership Average age of union members
6,724 73.5% 41.7
*Based on the number of full-time worker excluding executive directors (9,146)■Composition of labor union membershipAs of March 1, 2014FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Leave of absence for nursing care2 (Male 1, 
Female 1)1 (Male 0, 
Female 1)2 (Male 0 
Female 2)7 (Male 4, 
Female 3)4 (Male 1, 
Female 3)
Leave of absence for childcare
*240 (Male 5, Female 35)44 (Male 5, Female 39)62 (Male 8, Female 54)52 (Male 4, Female 48)46 (Male 8, Female 38)
Leave of absence for volunteer work
*30 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)0 (Male 0, 
Female 0)
*1 Number of regular employees (including contracted employees) who began a leave 
of absence during the relevant fiscal year (April 1 to March 31).
*2 As for leave of absence for childcare of the 2011 (Male), actual number was 7 
because there were male employees who took leaves for the same children during the relevant fiscal year.
*3 Number of employees who used the social service program.■Number of employees taking a leave of absence*1
* Data only for regular employees (non-regular employees are to be added actually)
*1 Accumulated paid leave: A system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave 
up to 60 days. Accumulated leave may be used for healthcare, childcare, nursing care, and volunteer activities.
*2 Double job program: This is not double duties by order, rather it is program, they 
are allowed engage in both their current work and work in another division through a system that matches the needs of divisions wanting to utilize senior workers’ skills and experience with the will of senior workers who wish to use their special skills or to take on new challenges.Giving 
birth and 
childcare1.  Maternity leave (paid)
2.  Leave of absence for childcare program
3.  Program for rehiring former employees who left the company for reasons 
such as spouse’s transfer or childcare
4.  Accumulated paid leave for healthcare of employees’ family*1
5.  Shortened working hours in pregnant and for childcare (from pregnancy to third grade of elementary school)
6.  Limited off-hours work for childcare (until sixth grade of elementary school)
7.  Limited late-night work for childcare (until six grade of elementary school)
8.  Special leave for supporting the wife during her childbirth period (first child’s birth: 2 days; second child’s birth and thereafter: 5 days)
9.  Leave of absence for birth support (one year leave system for fertility treatment)
Nursing 
care1.  Leave of absence for caring for a family member (maximum 2 years)
2.  Shortened working hours for caring for a family member
3.  Limited off-hours work for caring for a family member
4.  Limited late-night work for caring for a family member
5.  One-day nursing care leave
6.  Accumulated paid leave
*1 for caring for a family member
Other1.  Flextime
2.  Continuous service award special vacation; “refresh vacation”
3.  Social service system (leave of absence program for employees participating in socially beneficial activities)
4.  Accumulated paid leave*1 for volunteer activities
5.  Leave of absence for education
6.  Leave of absence for senior theme (support for senior employees’ second career)
7.  Flexible work schedules (support for senior employees’ second career)
8.  Double job program*2 (support for senior employees’ second career)■System for a good work-life balance
All those systems provide for generous leave beyond that required by law.
■Revisions to systems operating in accordance with agreements between the labor union and the company
As of March 31, 2014
FY Item
2007 •   Implementation of comprehensive secondment system
2008 •   Revisions to travel expense regulation
2009 •   Introduction of work regulations adapted to the citizen judge system
2010 •   Revision to the program for supporting childcare and family care
2011•   Revisions to work system on April 1, 2012 in accordance with 
agreements between the labor union and the company
2012•   Introduction of irregular working hours support system for developers 
and SEs
•   Revision of the employment and evaluation criteria for post-retirement 
re-employees
2013 •   Introduction of on-site irregular working hours support system for SEsAverage 
ageAverage length of 
employment (years)Average number 
of dependentsAverage annual 
salary*1Utilization of 
paid leaveTurnover 
rate*2
44.4Male: 19.9
Female: 15.61.15—  
million yen56.2% 3.7%
*1 Average annual salary is not publicly disclosed.
*2 Turnover rate =■Status of regular employeesAs of March 31, 2014
Attrition + Retirement + Transfer + New start for senior employees program
Number of employees at Fuji Xerox (non-consolidated)+  
annual average number of assigned employees■Number of employees taking a care leave*1, and  
total number of volunteer work leave
* Data only for regular employees (non-regular employees are to be added actually)
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Nursing care leave*229 (Male 24, 
Female 5)28 (Male 21, 
Female 7)26 (Male 17, 
Female 9)27 (Male 15, 
Female 12)26 (Male 16, 
Female 10)
Childcare leave*3 326 (Male 142, 
Female 184)226 (Male 89, 
Female 137)237 (Male 86, 
Female 151)197 (Male 72, 
Female 125)284 (Male 97, 
Female 187)
Volunteer work leave*4
(total number of days )13 (Male 9, 
Female 4)
(30 days)27 (Male 18, 
Female 9)
(83 days)118 (Male 94, 
Female 24)
(530 days)50 (Male 38, 
Female 12)
(135 days)15 (Male 11, 
Female 4)
(54 days)
*1 Number of regular employees (including contracted employees) who began a leave 
during the relevant fiscal year (April 1 to March 31).
*2 Number of employees taking leave of nursing care leave under the “accumulated 
paid leave (nursing care for family members),” “nursing care for family members” and “one-day nursing care leave” programs
*3 Number of employees taking childcare leave under the “accumulated paid leave (child healthcare)” and “child medical care” programs
 As a program equivalent to childcare leave, special leave (of 5 days at most) is 
granted for care of the eldest child at the time of birth of the second child. In FY2013, 74 male employees took leave under this program.
*4 Volunteer work leave shows the number of employees who took “accumulated paid 
leave (volunteer activity)” and the number of days spent for such activities.
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Work accident rate*10.24 0.19 0.55 0.31 0.11
Work accident severity*20.00 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00■Work accident rate and work accident severity
*1 Work accident rate =                                                                                   × 1,000,000
*2 Work accident severity =                                                       × 1,000Number of employees involved in work accidents
Gross number of hours worke d
Number of workdays lost
Gross number of hours workedPriority Targets
Anti-Global Warming Measures■Fujifilm FY2014 Priority Issues
■CO2 emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) ■FY2013 result of GHG Scope 3 
emissions for Fujifilm Group
*Calculation method:
Calculation of CO 2 emission by energy usage specified in the Act on 
the Rational Use of Energy.
Emission coefficient by electric power utility used for purchased power.■FY2013 CO 2 emission by region* (manufacturing)
(kt-CO 2/year)
CO2 emission
Japan 874 
OverseasAmericas (USA, Canada & Brazil) 149 
Europe (Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, 
UK & France)89
China 124
Asia excl. China & Oceania  (Australia, South Korea, Singapore, etc.) 33
Group total 1,268 6,000,000(t)
5,000,000
4,000,0003,000,0002,000,0001,000,000
0
FY201275%5,393,0005,184,000
7%
18%
FY2013Scope3:
Other
indirect
emissions
75%
17%8%15%
11%3%5%
55%
5%Purchased goods
and services
Capital goods
Upstream transportation and distributionWaste generated in operationBusiness travelEmployee commutingUpstream leased assetsDownstream transportation
and distributionProcessing of sold productsUse of sold productsEnd-of-life treatment of sold productsDownstream leased assets
Fuel and energy-related activitiesScope 1: Direct emissions
Scope 2: Indirect emissions resulting 
from energy usage
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions* Organizations covered in the environmental performance data are, as a general rule, those that are shown in the consolidated financial statements, and 
are significant in terms of environmental burden.
However, certain sales and manufacturing (assembly) subsidiaries are excluded.
Those not shown specifically are included in the tabulation figures above. Moreover, figures for the Group total may not reflect the sum of each subtotal.
Priority targets Strategies
Controlling global warming
①By FY2020, 30% reduction in CO 2 emissions 
during the company’s overall lifecycle stage 
from the level in FY2005
②Reduce CO 2 emissions at customers by 
seven million tons by FY2020Provide energy saving products & solutions①Develop low power-consumption technology 
②Create a scenario to help reduce CO 2 emissions from customers across society and acquire 
required technology
Promote energy saving measures manufacturing, office, and distribution①Introduce energy saving facilities to production sites, improve manufacturing processes, and improve work efficiency through innovative ideas 
②Reduce CO 2 emissions in offices by promotion of transforming working styles etc.
③Reduce CO 2 emissions by improving the distributions systems inside and outside Japan
Preservation of natural resourcesPromote product 3Rs①Establish the next generation eco-friendly structural material technologies, such as biomass  
②Reduction of resource input with lighter equipment 
③Curb use of new resources by recycling used parts 
④Actively use eco-conscious materials in paper 
Reduce resource usage volume and waste in production sites ①Reduction of waste output and recovery of valuable substances at production sites 
②Reduce water usage in production sites
Reduction in environmental risk from chemical substancesReduce chemical substance risks from products
①Reinforce risk management of chemical substances, such as by observing RoHS, REACH, etc.
Reduce chemical substance risk from production sites①Ensure implementation of risk management of chemical substances
Improvement of the infrastructure for promoting environmental targets ①Reinforce system to track the environmental impact from products throughout their life cycles
②Promotion of early action on global environment regulations■Fuji Xerox Priority Targets (Environmental Medium-Term and 2014 Targets)Priority Issues Strategies
1.  Promotion of anti-global warming measures* and energy cost reduction
* 30% reduction in CO 2 emissions throughout the 
life cycle of products by FY2020 (vs. FY2005)①Reduce CO 2 emissions and energy cost by promoting energy saving activities
②Generate in-house power (including the wheeling* of electric power in Japan). 
    *wheeling is the transportation of electric power (megawatts or megavolt-amperes) over transmission lines
③Develop cost-saving strategy taking into account the liberalization in the gas market. (Gas transmission system, review shale gas opportunities, etc.)
④Implement activities to educate employees and their families on reducing CO 2 footprint
2.  Promotion of efficient use of resources①Use resources efficiently by promoting the 3Rs: Reduce-Reuse-Recycle
②Reduce waste generation through yield increase, reuse of manufacturing waste, conversion of waste into valuables etc.
③Promote resource recovery and recycling to reduce the waste generated at production sites in Europe, North America and China
④Reduce water use through reuse and other conservation efforts
3.  Ensuring chemical and product safety①Continue dissemination of approaches and systems to the supply chain concerning management of chemical substances contained in products
②Conduct comprehensive chemical risk assessment* at the new products inception stage 
    *including chemical safety, current and future regulatory requirements or social demands
③Promote use of safer chemical substances by anticipating regulatory requirements and social demands
④Improve efficiency of notification and registration of chemical substances by using knowledge and experience of the whole Fujifilm group
⑤Continue on-going education concerning product safety
4.  Development and dissemination of environmentally valuable products and services①Demonstrate the reductions in CO 2 emissions for products and services and disclose environmental attributes of products and services 
proactively
②Formulate calculation rules for water footprint for products and services and adopt the Design for Environment rules
5.  Value chain management from the viewpoint of corporate social responsibility①Ensure assessment of biological resources in procurement process and follow Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing*. 
    *  The Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization to the Convention on 
Biological Diversity is an international agreement which aims at sharing the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources in a fair and equitable way
②Improve Ethical Sourcing investigation for suppliers
③Continue appropriate response to survey concerning the conflict mineral issue
6.  Environment and safety risk managementPromote efforts for environmental and safety issues on a global scale especially in Europe, North America, China and Japan
• Maintain systems for strict compliance to meet legal requirements and voluntary control limits• Improve occupational health and safety• Improve systems and processes to ensure proper management of wastes
7.  Information disclosure and communication of relevant information
①Enhance information disclosure through various methods (e.g., Sustainability Reports, websites)
②Verify adequacy of the current system to meet social requests through dialogue with stakeholders
8.  Employee education Educate and train employees in the areas of environment, chemicals,  product safety, occupational safety, etc.
64 65 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Environmental AspectsData and 
Information
Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions
■Reductions in VOCs atmospheric emissions*  
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
Category Name of substanceReduction 
(tons)Reduction rate in comparison 
to FY2012 (%)
Substances requiring reporting under the PRTR LawDichloromethane 18 19
Substances voluntarily controlled by the companyMethyl alcohol 36 12
Ethyl acetate 13 21
Methyl ethyl ketone 2 6
Acetone -8 -71
*Reduction in volumes in FY2013 compared with actual levels in FY2012■Annual changes in atmospheric emissions of VOCs
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Japan 9.6 10.3 10.1 7.6 6.9
Overseas 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.9
Group total 11.2 12.1 11.9 9.5 8.8(hundred tons/year)■Storage and management of devices/equipment containing PCBs* (FY2013)
*Not including items with trace levels of PCBsTypes of equipment containing PCBs UnitStoring and managing amount
Japan Group total
High voltage transformers Quantity 9.0 23.0 
High voltage condensers Quantity 294.0 384.0 
PCB oil waste, etc. kg 188.1 188.1 
Sludge, etc. m310,394.1 10,394.1 
Fluorescent lamp stabilizers Quantity 14,218.0 14,214.0 
Low voltage condenser excluding fluorescent lamps Quantity 117,092.0 117,092.0 
Low voltage transformer Quantity 2.0 2.0 
Rags kg 909.6 909.6 
Other devices Quantity 16.0 14.0 ■Response to the PRTR Law (Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)
In addition to those substances that must be reported under the PRTR Law (Pollutant 
Release and Transfer Register Law), Fujifilm controls another 10 items on a voluntary basis, primarily substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association as requiring au-tonomous monitoring, and has been endeavoring to reduce those emission on consolidat-ed basis. Data (usage volume, atmospheric emissions volume, emission into public water, volume going into sewage water, volume moved outside of facilities, and volume recycled) on substances used in amounts of one ton or more per year by Fujifilm and its domestic af-filiates may be found on the following Fujifilm website.
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/site/atmosphere/prtr.html
 (in Japanese only)
Pollution Prevention Measures
■Annual changes in volume of atmospheric emissions
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
SOx emissionsJapan 46 18 22 20 21 
Overseas 1 6 1 1 4 
Group total 47 25 24 20 25 
NOx emissionsJapan 454 445 470 391 450 
Overseas 43 41 40 66 73 
Group total 497 485 510 457 522 
Soot particle emissionsJapan 3.5 2.6 3.0 3.3 3.8 
Overseas 2.2 1.4 0.7 3.2 0.7 
Group total 5.7 4.1 3.7 6.5 4.5
Atmospheric emissions 
of specified CFCs*CFC-11 0.20 1.13 0.10 0.20 0.00 
CFC-12 0.00 0.04 0.02 0.00 0.00 
*Group total, below the limit of detection = 0(tons/year)
■Annual changes in water contaminant burden & emissions*1
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Total amount of COD*2Japan 76.4 84.1 93.2 85.0 85.2 
Overseas 17.9 15.3 21.7 24.4 31.3 
Group total 94.3 99.4 115.0 109.5 116.5 
Total amount of BOD*3Japan 46.7 45.5 46.7 43.6 43.3 
Overseas 7.1 5.5 6.2 2.9 1.6 
Group total 53.8 51.0 52.8 46.5 45.0 
Total amount of nitrogen emissions Japan 286.5 282.3 254.5 259.0 246.5 
Total amount of phosphorous emissionsJapan 3.7 9.1 5.2 2.5 3.4 
*1 Effluent release into public water bodies
*2 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand): An indicator of water pollution. COD indicates 
the amount of oxygen consumed when water-borne pollutants (primarily organic 
contaminants) are oxidized upon the introduction of an oxidant.
*3 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand): BOD is a way to measure the degree of water 
pollution, and indicates how much oxygen in the water is being used by organisms to decompose contaminants by looking at the reduction in oxygen in the water.(tons/year)
■Surveying and remediating soil and underground water pollution  
(FUJIFILM Corporation and its domestic affiliates/Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates)
The Fujifilm Group autonomously conducts environmental surveys on soil and underground water pollution. Regarding substances that are used at manufacturing facilities and that are subject to environmental limits set by regulations, the Group rigorously manages the usage and storage of such substances and monitors the concentrations of such substances in underground water. We are prepared to deal with any unforeseen pollution incidents in a timely fashion.
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/preservation/site/leakage/
(in Japanese only)
  http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/company/csr/stakeholder/environment/target.html
(in Japanese only)Legal Compliance Measures
Company/site name: FUJIFILM Techno Products Co., Ltd., Hanamaki Site
Description Violated Hanamaki City pollution control agreement on wastewater quality.
ResponseAntiseptic was added in the septic tank, and the quality level was confirmed 
to be less than agreement value in later measurements. A presentation on the cause and corrective measure was made to Hanamaki City.
Company/site name: FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals USA, Inc. Dayton
Description Temporarily exceeded the permissible COD emissions in wastewater.
ResponseSampling and analysis frequency was increased for improvement and 
detection of change prior to exceeding the level.
Company/site name: FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals USA, Inc. Rolling Meadows
Description Warning on leakage of chemicals into wastewater treatment plant
ResponseDiscussions held with the wastewater treatment plant on re-examination of 
internal management system, such as action in case of leakage of chemicals, recovery of washing water, discharge method, inspection method, report to administrative authorities. Improvement was confirmed later.
Company/site name: FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.
Description Temporarily exceeded the permissible COD emissions in wastewater.
ResponseThe cause was identified as winter rainwater discharge. Measures were 
implemented but have not restored normal wastewater standard levels. The management system will be reinforced, and investigation conducted into the root cause in cooperation with the administrative authorities.
*Relatively minor violations have been excluded.■Responses to environment-related complaints and legal violations in FY2013*■Legal compliance and reports on complaints in FY2013
In 2013, there were nine violations of environment-related laws (of which eight were over -
seas) and six customer complaints (of which two were overseas). The major issue involved 
in these violations was wastewater—where an excess of specified chemicals was tempo-rarily released. All of the violations were addressed immediately. Although there are issues that are currently being addressed, stricter control will be implemented on these occur -
rences, including related facilities, to prevent recurrence.
Japan Overseas Group total
Number of legal violations (number of cases solved) 1 (1) 8 (7) 9 (8)
Number of complaints (number of cases solved) 4 (4) 2 (2) 6 (6)Environmental Aspects
Conserving Resources MeasuresEnvironment Conscious in Logistics
■Annual changes in total CO 2 emissions in 
domestic logistics*
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Total CO 2 
emissions41,031 40,936 41,450 44,278 47,075 
* Total CO 2 emissions are calculated as the amount of CO 2 emitted by FUJIFILM 
Logistics Co., Ltd. in its logistics activities for the Fujifilm Group companies. Since 
FY2006, we shifted calculation method to the method based on revised Energy Conservation Law (travel distance of empty cars not included in calculations, etc.).
*1 Processed by external service providers
*2 Simple incineration or landfill disposal(tons of CO
2/year)■Annual changes in domestic transport volume *
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Transportation volume 162 164 175 194 186
* Range of transportation volume is calculated within the range of ownership in 
compliance with reporting under the Revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy.(million tons/kilometer)
■Annual changes in container and packaging material* used 
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Total consumption 19.4 19.0 18.5 18.2 16.3
* Total of corrugated paper boxes, paper materials, paper containers, metal materials, 
plastic molds, plastic film/sheet and glass used.(thousand tons/year)
■Annual changes in waste generation*1,  
recycling & final disposal *2
■Main recycling methods for waste products
Waste product Recycling method
Plastics (sorted) Pallets, pipes, clothing, heat insulation materials
Plastics (mixed)/Filters Blast furnace fuel
Magnetic tape Blast furnace fuel, tatami mat material, heat insulation materials
Aluminum hydroxide Aluminum sulfate (flocculant for water treatment)
Inorganic sludge, polishing agent Cement, roadway material, construction materials
Organic solvent Paint thinner
Acids and alkalines Neutralizer
Mixed flammable waste products Solid fuels, electricity and hot water productionFluorescent lamp Glass wool
Batteries Zinc, smelt iron
Left over food, raw garbage, organic sludge Fertilizer, animal feedDocuments, empty boxes Recycled paper
Iron, aluminum, copper, etc. Smelt metalEnergy-Saving Measures
(thousand kiloliters)■Breakdown of consumption of heavy oil, etc.  
(FY2013)*
*Consumption in manufacturing onlyHeavy oil Kerosene Light oil Gasoline
Japan 51.3 2.8 0.1 0.0
Overseas 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.2 
Group total 51.4 2.8 0.9 0.2 * Organizations covered in the environmental performance data are, as a general rule, those that are shown in the consolidated financial statements, and 
are significant in terms of environmental burden.
However, certain sales and manufacturing (assembly) subsidiaries are excluded.
Those not shown specifically are included in the tabulation figures above. Moreover, figures for the Group total may not reflect the sum of each subtotal.
01020304050607080
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009(thousand tons/year)
(FY)10.3
0.7
24.6
28.816.1
1.0
25.8
29.09.1
1.1
30.9
29.26.8
1.0
32.1
33.064.4 71.9 70.3 77.1 72.9
7.6
2.5
35.0
32.0Final waste disposal: 
Overseas
Final waste disposal: 
Japan
Recycled volume: 
Overseas
Recycled volume: 
Japan■Annual changes in valuable resources* 
* Valuable resources sold to the third party.(thousand tons/year)
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Japan 51.9 56.8 54.6 37.5 32.9 
Overseas 22.1 21.2 21.3 28.4 27.2 
Group total 74.0 78.0 75.9 65.9 60.1 ■Annual changes in energy consumption*1
2013 2005
(Base year)05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,000(TJ)
(FY)Overseas, gas*3
Overseas, heavy oil, etc.*2
Overseas, electric power
Japan, gas*3
Japan, heavy oil, etc.*2
Japan, electric power2,273235
5,130
3,928
8,081
8,17730272427,824
20091,682
4,687
8,606
3,482
6,47724,964
20101,935
5,217
9,877
2,784
7,00826,848
20112,132
5,220
9,509
2,587
6,35325,825
26
20122,176
5,525
8,978
2,553
6,47525,733
381,758
5,583
8,334
2,232
6,38924,333
*1 Per unit calorific value is based on 
the Energy Conservation Act.
*2 Total of heavy oil A, heavy oil C, 
kerosene, light oil and gasoline
*3 Total of natural gas, liquefied 
natural gas (LNG), city gas, butane 
and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)
■Annual changes in amount of CO 2 reductions and reduction 
rates through transportation efficiency improvements* 
(Domestic distribution)
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Amount of CO 2 reductions  
(tons of CO 2/year)6,691.0 7,004.0 6,969.9 7,753.6 6,353.7 
CO2 reduction rate (%) 14.0 14.8 14.4 14.9 11.9 
* In the fiscal year 2013, we enforced our activities for CO 2 reductions in collaboration 
with a specified consigner. Major reduction initiatives, which proved effective, include 
reducing transportation distance by rebuilding distribution network, improving carrying efficiency by double stacking during transport and enhancing gasoline mileage by eco-driving.CO
2 reduction rate (%) =Amount of CO 2 reductions
Total CO 2 emissions + CO 2 reductions■Annual changes in reduction in export packaging material 
weight* (Cumulative total)
FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Packaging material reduction rate 5.9 5.7 3.4 10.1 15.5
* Total weight of export packaging materials handled by FUJIFILM Logistics in FY2013 
was 1,146,944.0 tons. Weight was reduced by 210,940.8 tons, with yearly reduction 
rate of 15.5%. The main factor in the reduction rate increase compared to the previous year was changing the packaging of items to export to India from wood to cardboard.(%)
Packaging material reduction rate (%) =
Weight reduced
Total material weight + weight reduced
66 67 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting
Environmental AccountingSustainability Accounting
(Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)Data and 
Information
■Overview of FY2013
●Expenditure on improving working conditions and for socially ben-
eficial activities for different stakeholders is summarized.
●Efforts are made to create a worker-friendly environment through expanding educational seminars and supporting mental healthcare programs.
●For local communities, expenditure includes a donation to build the Japan Photographic Preservation Center and a product dona-tion to the Nature Conservation Society of Japan. In the promotion of art and culture, expenditure includes Fujifilm Square as the base for preservation and communication concerning photographic cul-ture, as well as for photo contests.<Period of coverage>
FY2013 (April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014)
<Scope of labor environment and social benefit accounting>
69 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm 
and 19 Fujifilm affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 46 Fuji Xerox affiliates, and TOYAMA CHEMICAL)
<Basic items>
●Objectives of labor environment and social benefit accounting
These accounts are prepared to allow the Fujifilm Group to keep up with its activities for improving the working environment of its employees and the amounts spent for social contributions by preparing data on these activities from an economic perspective.
●Accounting method
The expenditures (including investments) for the year have been added up to arrive at the figures shown. These figures do not include depreciation. Figures for personnel training and social contributions may overlap with figures in the Environmental Account as well.
■Overview of FY2013
●Environmental conservation costs
Overall costs were reduced by 10%. Approximately 6% of total costs 
was for facility investment and 94% was expenditure. This ratio is almost the same as the previous year.
[Facility investments]
Reduced approx. 50% year-on-year. This is due to the drastic drop in investment into facilities related to plants.
[Expenditure]
Expenditure was reduced by ¥180 million or 4% year-on-year, through efficient measures in workplace. R&D costs occupy approx. 40% of the entire expenditure.
●Environmental conservation benefits
The economic effect grew 2% to ¥2.8 billion year-on-year internally and externally.
[Internal economic effect]
Slightly reduced by 1.5% year-on-year.
[External economic effect]
Rise in benefits for customers led to a marked increase of ¥5.4 bil-lion or 4% year-on-year.<Period of coverage>
FY2013 (April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014)
<Scope of environmental accounting>
72 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm 
and 19 Fujifilm affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 49 Fuji Xerox affiliates and TOYAMA CHEMICAL)
<Basic items>
●Objectives of environmental accounting
(1)   To provide accurate quantitative information on volumes and economic ef-
fects to interested parties inside and outside the Group
(2)   To provide numerical environment-related information useful for decision 
making by management and supervisors at the working level
●Accounting method
Based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition)” published by the Ministry of the Environment in Japan.
(1)   Depreciation is calculated in principle according to the straight-line method 
over a three-year period.
(2)   When costs include expenditures for both environmental and non-
environmental purposes, the portion relating to non-environmental 
purposes has been excluded.
(3)   Economic impact within the Group: The difference in value terms from 
the previous year in fines for polluting and usage of energy, raw materi-als, water, and other resources is accounted for, as well as the real impact of recovery, recycling, and other measures in value terms for the year in question.
(4)   Economic impact outside the Group: The difference in value terms from the 
previous fiscal year has been shown for SOx, VOCs, and CO
2. For recy-
cling, the anticipated benefit in value terms has been shown for the year in question.
■Customer benefits
The customer benefits were calculated in amounts through compar -
ing the use of a new product purchased by the client with the envi-
ronmental burden when the customer uses an older product.
Total benefits to customers for FY2013 increased by ¥7.2 billion 
or 7% over the previous year. Greater use of energy-saving equip-ment, such as combination of EA-Eco Toners and IH Fusing in office printers increased the power-saving effects.ProductAmount
FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
1.   High-density magnetic memory 
materials 8,392 5,597 3,987
2.   Pre-sensitized aluminum plate not 
using plate-making film39,468 65,212 75,333
3.   Film for LCDs: WV films 21,694 14,797 11,769
4.   Digital color multifunction device and 
printers19,649 22,943 24,656
Total 89,203 108,549 115,745(million yen)Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting
Environmental AccountingSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)
■Breakdown of labor environment and social benefit accounting(million yen)
Stakeholder GoalCost totals
FY2012 FY2013
EmployeesWork health and safety 1,635 1,643
Personnel training 2,801 2,757
Protect diversity 483 917
Develop a workplace in which 
employees can work comfortably1,340 1,210
CustomersEnsure appropriate customer response and safety361 274
Future generations Education for future generations 0 24
Communities (local society and government)Harmony with the local community 99 116
Promote culture and the arts in society  (in Japan)746 883
International communityConsideration for the international community and international cultures46 42
NGOs and NPOs Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs 11 14
Suppliers Consideration for products 56 50
Total 7,579 7,928■Volunteer activities during working hours
*Volunteer activities
Calculated based on the hours spent on volunteer activities, such as area clean-up, working hours, the salary equivalent to that of those hours, and cost of the activities.FY2011 FY2012 FY2013
Hours spent on volunteer activities 10,175 4,700 7,210
Volunteering cost 41 million yen 12 million yen 19 million yen
(million yen) ■Environmental accounting for FY2013
Environmental conservation costs Environmental conservation benefits
Capital investment Expenses Economic impact inside the Group Economic impact outside the Group
FY2012 FY2013 FY2012 FY2013 FY2012 FY2013 FY2012 FY2013
1.   Costs incurred within the 
business site 4,659 1,995 9,123 8,376
    (1)   Environmental damage 
prevention 333 327 2,639 2,058Reduced pollution levy -3 0Reduction in SOx 
emissions*10.000 0.000 
Reduction in volume of SOx emissions 5 tons -2 tons
Reduction in volume of NOx emissions 130 tons -21 tons
Reduction in VOC emissions
*2152 18
Reduction in volume of VOC 435 tons 53 tons
    (2)   Global environmental 
protection4,182  1,487 3,893 4,022 Energy conservation 926 1,654Reduction in CO
2 
emissions*39 52
Reduction in volume of CO
2 emissions 20 kilotons 61 kilotons
    (3)   Resource recycling 144 181 2,591 2,295Reduced raw materials and resources used11,281 9,832
Reduced waste materials through reuse and recycling
*4
Reduced volume*618,600
186 kilotons16,900
169.0 kilotonsReduced water resource consumption*5 1,581 628
Recovery and recycling
   Silver 1,586 1,453
   Polymeric materials 1,249 590
   Aluminum materials 98 119 Reuse of aluminum 
materials
Reduced volume of CO
2 emissions18 27
   Others 575 389 30 kilotons 30 kilotons
2.   Upstream/downstream costs      Recovery from the market0 0 7,373 7,293QuickSnap recovery, Parts recovered from used equipment5,630 5,630
3.   Cost of management 
activities 21 50 8,045 7,894
4.   Research and development 
costs 830 617 17,238 15,964Customer benefits are shown in the table on page 68.108,549 115,745
5.   Costs for social programs 6 55 45 486
6.   Costs for handling 
environmental damage
    Pollution levies6 22 37 44
Total 5,521 2,739 41,861 40,057 22,923 20,295 127,328 132,742
*1 SOx emissions reductions: ¥36/ton
 Bidding price of SOx emissions credits offered by the United States Environmental 
Protection Agency in March 2013 (US$0.17/ton).
*2 VOC emissions reductions: ¥350,000/ton
 From the “Economics Evaluation Report on Countermeasures for Harmful 
Atmospheric Pollutants” issued by Japan Environmental Management Association 
for Industry, February 2004.*3 CO
2 emissions reductions: ¥856/ton
 Trading price of EU emissions credit 2013 futures (€3.78/ton) at the end of March 
2013.
*4 Landfill costs for the waste product (¥100/kg).
*5 Water resource consumption reduction: ¥200/ton for clean water supply, ¥200/ton for sewage water times the reductions amount.
*6 Volume of recycle and valuable resources in generated industrial waste
68 69 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014FUJIFILM Holdings’ CSR has shown dramatic advances in 2014 
with the new medium-term management plan. I would like to present my assessment of its CSR from the three perspectives of (1) process, (2) direction and (3) self-examination, focusing chiefly on the medium-term management plan.
(1) Process
The most important feature of the activities conducted this year to resolve social issues through business operations was the systematic process implemented to identify priority areas and is-sues. Fujifilm should be recognized for its effort in identifying 11 priority issues in the four areas of the Environment, Health, Daily Life, and Working Style based on the two overlapping perspec-tives of business strategy and social importance.
A systematic process is both reproducible and extendable, 
presenting the possibility of future activities. The process that has been executed in concrete detail in the new Medium-Term Management Plan should be recognized as proof of the com-pany’s focus on the future.
(2) Direction
Regarding “focus on the future,” sharing a company’s vision of the ideal future society with society at large serves as the foundation for cooperation with its stakeholders. A good example of this in the Report is the gas separation membrane module that enables the use of natural energy sources with high efficiency and low energy consumption, which the company has reported to be pro-gressing from demonstration tests to the commercialization stage.
If I am permitted to ask for more in this direction, however, a 
future vision that is one or two steps further into the future from the current state of technical innovation would be recommended. The idea would be to present to society a vision that is grander in scale.
(3) Self-Examination
On the “dark” side of business activities, including reducing the impact on the environment and society, issues with the value chain, etc., that are intrinsically linked to any business enterprise, Fujifilm continues to show its self-awareness and should be highly appraised for reinforcing its activities in these areas in the new medium-term management plan. Focusing further on this subject, I would like to comment on the vital global issues of (a) measures to address global warming, (b) preservation of water resources and (c) protection of human rights.
(a) Measures to combat global warming
In view of its growing production output, Fujifilm should be evalu-ated highly for steadily reducing its CO
2 emissions across the 
entire group. As mentioned in the third-party opinion issued by  Mr. Sueyoshi, the company’s proactive efforts to create a scheme for transmitting power generated internally on consignment, without depending on existing rules, is very impressive and is something that we would like to see demonstrated in the future as well. Changes in society require changes also in the social re-gime, and CSR plays an important role in exercising initiatives to achieve this goal.
(b) Water problem
The shortage of water supplies is expected to become a serious issue in sustainable growth on a global scale. In this respect, I welcome and appraise highly the establishment of guidelines for calculating water consumption through the entire product life-cycle and for advances in water recycling. In addition, activities to conserve water in the color printing paper production process at its US plant are extremely interesting. Unlike CO
2, however, 
water-related risks are hugely dependent on regional characteris-tics. It may be rational to set goals with attention paid to the fact that much of the groupwide water consumption is concentrated in Japan, where water-related risks are low.
(c) Global protection of human rights 
Key to this area is the execution of human rights due diligence throughout the supply chain. Although progress can be seen in this respect, the speed is not necessarily adequate. One issue that should be addressed in the future can be seen in the signifi-cant gap in progress between Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox in promot-ing CSR at their suppliers. Although implementation is not easy, since this is an issue involving Fujifilm intervening in its suppliers based on its principles, extending beyond the framework of self-discipline, it is a central issue in CSR today, and I hope the com-pany will devote greater efforts to this in the future.
In Top Commitment, Chairman Komori stated the Company com-
mits to implementing CSR activities from the new perspectives of creating value for society and contributing to resolving social is -
sues through products, services and technology. With CSR firmly rooted at the core of business management and implemented in combination with its business strategies, the Fujifilm Group has clearly taken a large step forward in the right direction this year. With the emphasis placed on process, the Group is moving forward with a grand vision, and is not forgetting to scrutinize its own actions at all times. This is what I read in this year’s wonder -
ful report and forms the essence of CSR in the Fujifilm Group. At the same time, it is essential that the Group play a major part in the betterment of society and the environment. I sincerely hope that the opinion I have presented here will contribute to the Group’s future activities.Domestic and International AppraisalsData and 
Information
■Ranking and status of SRI audit
FUJIFILM Holdings has received the following evalu-
ations by external organizations as a corporate group that proactively promotes CSR actions toward sus -
tainable development. It is included in the Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) index listed below. Also listed right are evaluations of FUJIFILM Holdings in do-mestic and international ranking surveys.Survey Evaluation for FUJIFILM Holdings
8th CSR Corporate Ranking  
(2014, Toyo Keizai, Inc.)2nd out of 1,210 companies (570.5 points)
17th Nikkei Environmental Management Survey (sponsored by Nikkei Inc.)9th out of 429 manufacturers; 1st in the petrochemical field for the seventh consecutive year
7th JUSE Quality Management Level Research (Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers)2nd out of 217 companies, Excellent Company Award
CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Score of 88, Rank of B
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index FTSE4Good Global Index
(As of May 2014)Morningstar Socially Responsible Index
Recipient Name and description of the award Awarding entity
FUJIFILM Corporation5th Monodzukuri Nippon Grand Award, Manufacturing and Production Process Category, Prime Minister’s AwardsMinistry of Economy, Trade and Industry.
FUJIFILM Corporation nano tech Grand Awards 2014 Life Nanotechnology Awards National Institute for Materials Science
FUJIFILM Corporation 22th Japan Movie Critics Award Special Award Japan Movie Critics Award
FUJIFILM Corporation FY2013 Industrial Standardization Awards, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Awards Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
FUJIFILM Corporation 2013 Thomson Reuters Top 100Global InnovatorsThomson Reuters
FUJIFILM Corporation Good Design Award 2013 Japan Institute of Design Promotion
FUJIFILM Corporation, R&D Center Kanagawa Brand Certification Kanagawa Prefecture
FUJIFILM Techno Products Co., Ltd. 2013 Kanagawa Global Environment Award, Global Warming Prevention AwardKanagawa Prefecture,  Kanagawa Promotional Conference for Preservation of Global Environment
FUJIFILM Optomaterials Co., Ltd. Federation of Safety of Hazardous Materials, Shizuoka, Chairman’s PrizeFederation of Safety of Hazardous Materials, Shizuoka
FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd.,  Morioka Service CenterSafety Driving AwardIwate Prefectural Police Headquarters and Iwate Prefecture Safety Driving Supervisor’s Federation 
TOYAMA CHEMICAL CO., LTD.,  Toyama WorksThe Commendation for Science and Technology 2013, The Prize for Creativity Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd., Chiba Office Safety Drivers Chiba 2013, the Good Plant Award Chiba Prefecture Safety Driving Association
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd., Chiba Office Chiba Labor Bureau Director’s Award for Safety and Health Chiba Labor Bureau
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.The top ranking in the IT Consulting/Upstream Design Services category of Customer Satisfaction Survey by Nikkei Computer Nikkei BP
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Good Design Award 2013 Japan Institute of Design Promotion
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.The Commendation for Science and Technology, Prizes for Science and Technology, Development CategoryMinister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. National Commendation for Invention, Invention Prize Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. The highest for 2013 Japan Color Copier Customer Satisfaction Index Study
SM J.D. Power Asia Pacific
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. The highest for 2013 Japan Color Printer Customer Satisfaction Index StudySM J.D. Power Asia Pacific
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd., Toyama Center Toyama Governor’s AwardThe Japan Electric Association,  Hokuriku Branch
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. 2013 Palmetto Award (10 straight years of 100% permit compliance) Greenwood Metropolitan District
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc. Preferred Quality Supplier Award Intel Corporation
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) NV Preferred Quality Supplier Award Intel Corporation
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Ltd.  Grangemouth ManufacturingGold Medal for Occupational Health & SafetyThe Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA)
FUJIFILM Europe GmbH Climate Certification Dual System Germany “green dot”
FUJIFILM France S.A.S. Imprim’Vert Certificate (“Green printing certification”) P2i: pole d’innovation de l’imprimerie. 
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Singapore Pte. Ltd.Singapore Chemical Industry Council Responsible Care Awards 2013Pollution Prevention CodeSingapore Chemical Industry Council (SCIC)
Fuji Xerox Taiwan The Seventh Excellent Performance Enterprises Award, Evergreen Enterprises category award Taoyuan County of Taiwan■Appraisals and awards in FY2013 See pagesp. 59 p. 32 p. 24Third-Party Opinion
Toshihiko Fujii
Consulting Fellow
Research Institute of Economy,  Trade and Industry
Profile
Graduated from the Faculty of Economics, the University of Tokyo in 1987 and earned an MBA from the University of Washington in 1994. For four years from 2000, he served as secretary-general of the Japan Business Council in Europe in Brussels, actively engaging in lobbying the EU market. He has participated in the EU’s CSR policy planning. After returning to Japan, he has been visiting lecturer at Keio University Law School and visiting professor at Saitama University Graduate School of Economic Science. He is currently Consulting Fellow at the Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry. His major works in-clude “Global Rules As Competition Strategy” (TOYO KEIZAI INC.) and “CSR in Europe and CSR in Japan” (JUSE Press).
70 71 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview
●Holding Company: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
●Fujifilm Group Organization Overview (as of March 31, 2014)Company name: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Representative: Shigetaka Komori
Head office: Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052, JapanEstablished: January 20, 1934
Capital: ¥40,363 million (as of March 31, 2014)
Employees: 125 (as of March 31, 2014)Consolidated employees: 78,595 (as of March 31, 2014)
Consolidated subsidiaries: 273 (as of March 31, 2014)
05001,0001,5002,0002,500
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
-50050100150 02505007501,000
2013 2012 2011-50-2502550
02505007501,000
02550751002013 2012 2011
02505007501,000
0255075100˙Proportion of revenue by business 
(FY2013)˙Consolidated revenue* ˙Consolidated operating income (loss)
˙Consolidated operating income (loss)Photo Imaging
58%
Optical Devices and 
Electric Imaging
42%(Billions of yen)
˙Proportion of revenue by business 
(FY2013)˙Consolidated revenue*
Healthcare
41%Ofﬁce and Industry 
Electronic Materials etc.
9%
FPD Materials
15%Recording Media
5%
Graphic Systems
30%˙Consolidated operating income
(Billions of yen)
˙Proportion of revenue by business 
(FY2013)Imaging Solutions
Information Solutions
Document Solutions
˙Consolidated revenue*
(Billions of yen)Ofﬁce Products
45%Others
11%
Production 
Services
14%Global Services
14%
Ofﬁce Printers
16%˙Consolidated operating income
(Billions of yen)(Billions of yen)984.81,012.2*After elimination of intersegment transaction
*After elimination of intersegment transaction
*After elimination of intersegment transaction˙Consolidated revenue
(FY)
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (FY)(Billions of yen)
(FY) (FY)
2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 (FY) (FY)
2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 (FY) (FY)(Billions of yen)373.6
346.0
375.0
(Billions of yen)856.5
835.5933.9−0.8
−8.13.6
72.9
71.672.9
1,132.596.0
81.875.9˙Proportion of consolidated 
revenue by region (FY2013)˙Proportion of consolidated revenue by operating segments (FY2013)
Japan
42.5 %Imaging 
Solutions
15.3 %
Document Solutions
46.4 %
Information Solution
38.3 %
The Americas
17.9 %Europe
12.0 %Asia and others
27.6 %2,217.12,195.32,440.0
2,214.7
2,181.7 −42.1112.9140.8
114.1
136.4*Following organizational changes carried out in the ﬁrst quarter of FY2013, the optical device 
business was moved from Information Solutions to Imaging Solutions. In accordance with this change, the numerical values for FY2011 and FY2012 have been restated.Proportion of consolidated employees 
by region (FY2013) (as of March 31, 2014)
7.7%The Americas 6.2%Europe37.0 %Asia and others
49.1 %Japan
FUJIFILM Corporation Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.TOYAMA CHEMICAL
CO., LTD.FUJIFILM Business
Expert CorporationShared service company Operating companiesHolding company
100% 100% 75% 66%FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries
  http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.html For information about the consolidated subsidiaries of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, please visit:FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report 2014 covers 
information about the environmental and social aspects of the Fujifilm Group’s wide-ranging corporate activities, focusing on topics of specific importance to both the Fujifilm Group and its stakeholders.
This year’s report features the Fujifilm Group’s 80th 
anniversary with its history, our expanding business areas, and Sustainable Value Plan 2016 (SVP2016), the group’s Medium-Term CSR Plan. We hope that the report delivers a good insight into our business ap-proach—which is closely linked with our CSR activities and sustainability—to all our stakeholders.
In the section covering the CSR Activity Report, we 
have compiled concrete examples of our CSR activities both in Japan and overseas. Individual activity results are presented with associated data to deliver con -
cise and easy-to-understand reading. The Third-Party Opinion section this year again provides an objective assessment of our efforts. 
We actively publish our CSR information on the URL 
below. Further details of CSR activities being undertak-en in our respective group companies, including Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, are also available on each company’s official website.
●Process of creating the report●Editorial Policy
●Period covered by the report
Fiscal year 2013 (April 1, 2013–March 31, 2014) is covered in the performance data. With 
regards to the contents of activities, wherever possible, we have conveyed the most recent trends, including activities in FY2014.
●Organizations covered by the report
The Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, FUJIFILM Corporation and its affiliates, Fuji Xerox and its affiliates, TOYAMA CHEMICAL, and FUJIFILM Business Expert)
◎Major consolidated companies are shown on page 72 and on our website.
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.html
◎Quantitative information about personnel and labor affairs is nonconsolidated data for FUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji Xerox.
◎The scope of Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting is shown on page 68. The scope of Environmental Accounting is shown on page 68.
◎The scope of environmental aspects is shown on page 65.
●Date of publication
August 2014 (next report: August 2015, previous report: August 2013)●Referenced guidelines
◎Japan’s Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version)
◎GRI: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006
◎Japan’s Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 Version)
◎ISO 26000: Social Responsibility
●Supplemental information regarding reported matters
◎The term “employees” refers to all employees, including managers, general employees, and part-time staff. The term “company employees” indicates employees (full-time staff). To further ensure the accuracy of the report, the terms “regular employees” and “non-regular employees” (temporary staff, part-time staff, others) have been used separately as required.
◎The operating company, Fuji Xerox, issues a separate sustainability report. Please refer to that report for details on the activities of Fuji Xerox.
[GRI Guidelines (G3) Comparison Table]
 http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/report/guideline/Communication (using tools such as dialogue meetings, surveys, and inquiries)
Daily business operation (CSR activities)Publishing
the 2013 reportAugust 2013
Publishing
the 2014 reportAugust
Receiving
improvement
proposals from
third partiesFormulating the
editorial policyInterviewing
individual
departmentsReceiving
third-party
opinionsOctober December February to July 2014 June to AugustStakeholders
FUJIFILM Holdings
Group companiesUse as
communication toolsUse as
communication toolsIncorporation of
improvement
proposalsUse as
communication toolsUse as
communication toolsIncorporation
of opinions
Collection and provision of informationEconomic
Environmental Social(including governance)
(including governance) (including governance)
Disclosed in 
the Sustainability
Report (PDF)
Disclosed on the website (HTML)
Importance of information to the Fujiﬁlm GroupImportance of information to stakeholders
HighHigh
Lowdisclosed as
IR information
disclosed as
CSR informationdisclosed as
CSR information■Report on economic aspects
■Report on social and  
environmental aspects
Sustainability Report 2014Annual Report 2014
Online Version
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/investors/annual_reports/2014/index.html
IR Site (website)
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/investors/index.html
CSR Site (website)
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/sustainability/index.htmlhttp://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/index.html
We welcome your comments to improve our future reports. We 
would appreciate your participation in the questionnaire accessible from the following URL:
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/report/
questionnaire/index.html
72 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2014 73Date of publication: August 2014
© 2014 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation◎ About the artistic work on the front cover
The Fujifilm Group is recording and storing cultural and artistic works in the 
form of photos and images to pass on to future generations. We do this as part of our social contribution through our business. Thanks to coopera -
tion from the Kyoto National Museum, we are presenting works owned by the museum on the front cover of this report.
Large Bowl with Cherry 
and Maple Design  (Cloud and Brocade Work)
Artist: Dohachi NINAMI
Edo period, 19th centuryKyoto National Museum
Dohachi NINAMI was a disciple of 
Eisen Okuda and is regarded as one of the master craftsmen of the end of the Edo period. A Cloud and Brocade work refers to the cherry and maple design on the pottery, colored by an over-glazing technique and based on the popular saying, “Cherry blossoms in Yoshino Mountain are like cloud, and maples on the Tatsuta River are like brocade.” Dohachi excelled in this form of design.
Photo: ©KYOTOMUSE (Kyoto National Museum)
Kyoto National Museum
527 Chaya-cho, Higashiyama-ku, Kyoto, Japan, 605-0931
Phone: +81-75-541-1151http://www.kyohaku.go.jp/eng/index_top.html
The Kyoto National Museum was established over a hundred years ago in 1897 in the 
Higashiyama district of southeastern Kyoto. It focuses on early works of art, cultural artifacts, and archaeological finds from Kyoto and other parts of Japan, as well as from East Asia. 
■Please address inquiries on this publication to:
CSR Group, Corporate Planning Division
Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052Tel.: +81-3-6271-2065 Fax: +81-3-6271-1190http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/contact/index.htmlFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Guideline Comparison Tables
ISO26000 / GRI GuidelineAttached 
Reference─ 1 ─ISO26000 Comparison Table
ISO26000  
Core SubjectsIssues Related InformationPages in this  
Report 2014
Organizational 
GovernanceOrganizational Governance Top Commitment
Corporate Governance CSR ManagementRespect for Human RightsIR EventsP. 4-5P. 38P. 39-40P. 53-
Human Rights 1.  Due diligence
2.  Human rights risk situations
3.  Avoidance of complicity
4.  Resolving grievances
5.  Discrimination and vulnerable groups
6.  Civil and political rights
7.  Economic, social and cultural rights
8.  Fundamental principles and rights at workRespect for Human Rights
Promoting CSR Among Our SuppliersIntegration of Business and Social ContributionsPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 53P. 57P. 60P. 63P. 64
Labour 
Practices1.  Employment and employment relationships
2.  Conditions of work and social protection
3.  Social dialogue
4.  Health and safety at work
5.  Human development and training in the workplaceEffective Utilization and Training of Human 
Resources
Occupational Health and SafetyPersonnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)P. 54-55 
P. 56
P. 63P. 64
The 
Environment1.  Prevention of pollution
2.  Sustainable resource use
3.  Climate change mitigation and adaptation
4.  Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration 
of natural habitatsContribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities [Environment]
Topics in FY2013Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the 
Fujifilm Group
Promoting Anti-Global Warming MeasuresDevelopment and Dissemination of Environmentally 
Conscious Products and Services
Effective Use of ResourcesBiodiversity ConservationImproving Chemical Substance ManagementIntegration of Business and Social ContributionsEnvironmental AspectsSustainability Accounting (Labor Environment 
and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)
Green Policy (Environmental Policy) P. 16-17 
P. 30-35
P. 43 
P. 44-45
P. 46-47 
P. 48-49
P. 50-51P. 52P. 60P. 65-67P. 68-69 
 
-
Fair Operating 
Practices1.  Anti-corruption
2.  Responsible political involvement
3.  Fair competition
4.  Promoting social responsibility in the value chain
5.  Respect for property rightsQuality Improvement in Compliance and Risk 
Management Activities
Promoting CSR Among Our SuppliersCompliance and Risk ManagementProducts and Services which Reflect Our 
Customers’ Views
Approach to Intellectual PropertyP. 41-42 
P. 57
P. 62P. 58-59 
-
Consumer 
Issues1.  Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair 
contractual practices
2.  Protecting consumers’ health and safety
3.  Sustainable consumption
4.  Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute 
resolution
5.  Consumer data protection and privacy
6.  Access to essential services
7.  Education and awarenessContribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities [Environment]
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities [Health]
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities [Daily Life]
Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our 
Business Activities [Working Style]
Products and Services which Reflect Our 
Customers’ Views
Application of Integrated Management SystemQuality PolicyP. 16-17 
P. 18-21 P. 22-24 P. 25-26 P. 58-59 -
-
Community 
Involvement and Development1.  Community involvement
2.  Education and culture
3.  Employment creation and skills development
4.  Technology development and access
5.  Wealth and income creation
6.  Health
7.  Social investmentIntegration of Business and Social Contributions
Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment 
and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)P. 60
P. 68-69FUJIFILM Holdings has created a comparison table to verify if the information is disclosed in accordance with the seven core subjects 
of “ISO26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility” published in November 2010.─ 2 ─GRI Guideline Comparison Tables
Item Indicators Pages in this Report 2014 Pages in this Report 2013
1. Strategy and Profile
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-
maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy.P. 4-5 “Top Commitment” P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.P. 10 “Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
2. Organizational Profile
2.1 Name of the organization. P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services. P. 8-9 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business”
P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview”P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Business Overview”
P. 6-7 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business and CSR”
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, 
including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business 
Overview”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 8-9 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business”P. 18-21 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
through Our Business Activities [Health]”
P. 30-35 “Topics in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 54-55 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”
P. 56 “Occupational Health and Safety”P. 57 “Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”P. 10-13 “Healthcare”P. 20-22 “Graphic Systems”P. 24 “Corporate Governance”P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 40-41 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 44-45 “Improving Chemical Substance 
Management”
P. 47-49 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”
P. 51 “Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers”P. 52-55 “Integration of Business and Social 
Contributions”
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers / beneficiaries).P. 8-9 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business”
P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business 
Overview”P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Business Overview”
P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including:•  Number of employees; 
•  Net sales (for private sector organizations) or 
net revenues (for public sector organizations); 
•  Total capitalization broken down in terms 
of debt and equity (for private sector 
organizations); and 
•  Quantity of products or services provided.P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview”
P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Business Overview”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”P. 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting 
period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:
•  The location of, or changes in operations, 
including facility openings, closings, and 
expansions; and 
•  Changes in the share capital structure and 
other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations).P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business Overview”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. P. 22-24 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Daily Life]”
P. 30-35 “Topics in FY2013”P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 58-59 “Products and Services which Reflect 
Our Customers’ Views”
P. 70 “Domestic and International Appraisals”P. 70 “Domestic and International Appraisals”P. 10-13 “Healthcare”P. 14-17 “Document Solutions”P. 18-19 “Highly Functional Materials”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 37-39 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 52-55 “Integration of Business and Social 
Contributions”
P. 56-58 “Products and Services which Reflect 
Our Customers’ Views”─ 3 ─3. Report Parameters
Report Profile
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal / calendar year) for 
information provided.P. 73 “Editorial Policy” P. 4-5 “Editorial Policy”
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). P. 73 “Editorial Policy” P. 5 “Editorial Policy”
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) P. 73 “Editorial Policy” P. 4-5 “Editorial Policy”
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.Back cover
FUJIFILM Holdings website: Contact UsBack coverFUJIFILM Holdings website “Contact 
Sustainability”
Report Scope and Boundary
3.5 Process for defining report content, including:
•  Determining materiality; 
•  Prioritizing topics within the report; and 
•  Identifying stakeholders the organization 
expects to use the report.P. 12-13 “In Creating a New Medium-Term 
CSR Plan”
P. 14-15 “Creating the Triple Promotion Policy”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 73 “Editorial Policy”P. 4 “Editorial Policy”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, 
divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).P. 8-9 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business”
P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business 
Overview”
P. 73 “Editorial Policy”P. 4-5 “Editorial Policy”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 
boundary of the report.P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”
P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”
P. 73 “Editorial Policy”P. 4-5 “Editorial Policy”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting”P. 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 
subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organizations.None None
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”
P. 73 “Editorial Policy”P. 4-5 “Editorial Policy”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting”
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 
of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers / acquisitions, change of base years / periods, nature of business, measurement methods).None None
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.N/A N/A
GRI Content Index
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report.GRI Guideline Comparison Tables GRI Guideline Comparison Tables
Assurance
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s).P. 71 “Third-Party Opinion”
P. 73 “Editorial Policy”P. 4 “Editorial Policy”Third-Party Opinion
4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
Governance
4.1 Governance structure of the organization, 
including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight.P. 38 “Corporate Governance” P. 24 “Corporate Governance”
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement).P. 38 “Corporate Governance” P. 24 “Corporate Governance”─ 4 ─4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board 
structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and / or non-executive members.P. 38 “Corporate Governance” P. 24 “Corporate Governance”
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.P. 38 “Corporate Governance” P. 24 “Corporate Governance”
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance).P. 38 “Corporate Governance” P. 24 “Corporate Governance”
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.None None
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topicsP. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 8-9 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business”P. 10 “Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR)”
P. 12-13 “In Creating a New Medium-Term 
CSR Plan”
P. 14-15 “Creating the Triple Promotion Policy”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 6-7 “The Fujifilm Group’s Business and CSR”
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 
overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Commitments to External Initiatives
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.P. 39-40 “CSR Management”
P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 32-33 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
P. 60 “Compliance and Risk Management”
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, 
and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.P. 53 “Respect for Human Rights” P. 46 “Respect for Human Rights”
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international advocacy organizations in which the organization:
•  Has positions in governance bodies; 
•  Participates in projects or committees; 
•  Provides substantive funding beyond routine 
membership dues; or 
•  Views membership as strategic.P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 52 “Improving Chemical Substance 
Management”
P. 53 “Respect for Human Rights”P. 37 “Development and Dissemination of 
Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 44 “Improving Chemical Substance 
Management”
P. 46 “Respect for Human Rights”
Stakeholder Engagement
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 
organization.P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 26-27 “Communication with Stakeholders”
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-27 “CSR Management”
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.P. 30-35 “Topics in FY2013”
P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 53 “Respect for Human Rights”P. 45, 47, 51, 55 “Response to the third-party 
opinion”P. 10-13 “Healthcare”
P. 25-29 “CSR Management (Communication 
with Stakeholders)”
P. 38, 52 “Column: Stakeholder Dialogue”P. 46 “Respect for Human Rights”P. 36, 39, 43, 45, 49, 55 “Response to the 
third-party opinion”─ 5 ─Management Approach and Performance Indicators
ItemPerformance Indicators  
(◎Core / ○Add)Pages in this Report 2014 Pages in this Report 2013
EconomicDisclosure on Management ApproachGoals and Performance P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”FUJIFILM Holdings website (“Medium-term 
Management Plan” and “Investor Relations”)P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”
P. 25-29 “CSR Management”FUJIFILM Holdings website (“Medium-term 
Management Plan” and “Investor Relations”)
Policy P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 12-13 “In Creating a New Medium-Term 
CSR Plan”
P. 14-15 “Creating the Triple Promotion Policy”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”FUJIFILM Holdings website (“Medium-term 
Management Plan” and “Investor Relations”)P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”
P. 25-29 “CSR Management”FUJIFILM Holdings website (“Medium-term 
Management Plan” and “Investor Relations”)
Additional Contextual Information P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 39-40 “CSR Management”FUJIFILM Holdings website (“Medium-term 
Management Plan,” “Investor Relations” and “Business-Related and Other Risks”)P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”
P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Business Overview”FUJIFILM Holdings website (“Medium-term 
Management Plan,” “Investor Relations” and “Business-Related and Other Risks”)
Economic Performance Indicators
◎EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”
P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business 
Overview”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting”
P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Business Overview”
◎EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change.P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 44-45 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 50-51 “Biodiversity Conservation”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”P. 14-17 “Document Solutions”
P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 42-43 “Biodiversity Conservation”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting 
(Environmental Accounting)”
◎EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations.None None
◎EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government.None None
Market Presence
○EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.None None
◎EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation.None None
◎EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation.None None
Indirect Economic Impacts
◎EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.P. 60 “Integration of Business and Social Contributions”P. 52-55 “Integration of Business and Social Contributions”
○EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.None None─ 6 ─EnvironmentalDisclosure on Management ApproachGoals and Performance P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64 “Environmental Aspects (Priority Targets)”
Policy P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”P. 14-15 “Creating the Triple Promotion Policy”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64 “Environmental Aspects (Priority Targets)”
Organizational Responsibility P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Training and Awareness P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”P. 37-39 “Development and Dissemination of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
Monitoring and Follow-up P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 52 “Improving Chemical Substance 
Management”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 44-45 “Improving Chemical Substance 
Management (Fuji Xerox)”
P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64 “Environmental Aspects (Priority Targets)”
Additional Contextual Information P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64 “Environmental Aspects (Priority Targets)”
Materials
◎EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64 “Environmental Aspects (Priority Targets)”
◎EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 
input materials.P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 18-19 “Highly Functional Materials”P. 40-41 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 66 “Environmental Aspects (Conserving 
Resources Measures)”
Energy
◎EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64-66 “Environmental Aspects”
◎EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64-66 “Environmental Aspects”
○EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 
improvements.P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 44-45 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 14-17 “Document Solutions”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 37-39 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services (Outline of Activities in Fiscal 2012)”
P. 64-65 “Environmental Aspects”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting 
(Environmental Accounting)”
○EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 30-35 “Topics in FY2013”P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact 
of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 44-45 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 18-19 “Highly Functional Materials”P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 37-39 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services (Outline of Activities in Fiscal 2012)”
P. 64-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting 
(Environmental Accounting)”─ 7 ─○EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 
and reductions achieved.None None
Water
◎EN8Total water withdrawal by source. P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 66 “Environmental Aspects”
○EN9Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of water.P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources” None
○EN10Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 66 “Environmental Aspects”
Biodiversity
◎EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.None None
◎EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.P. 50-51 “Biodiversity Conservation” P. 42-43 “Biodiversity Conservation”
○EN13 Habitats protected or restored. None None
○EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity.P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”
P. 50-51 “Biodiversity Conservation”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 42-43 “Biodiversity Conservation”
○EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national 
conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.None None
Emissions, Effluents, and Waste
◎EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”
P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact 
Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
P. 64-67 “Environmental Aspects”
◎EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 
by weight.P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
◎EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 30-35 “Topics in FY2013”P. 44-45 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”P. 14-17 “Document Solutions”
P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 37-39 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
◎EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 67 “Environmental Aspects”
◎EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 67 “Environmental Aspects”
◎EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 66 “Environmental Aspects”
◎EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 66 “Environmental Aspects”
◎EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 67 “Environmental Aspects”
○EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources” P. 40-41 “Effective Use of Resources”
○EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff.None None─ 8 ─Products and Services
○EN26Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 
products and services, and extent of impact mitigation.P. 16-17 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues through Our Business Activities [Environment]”
P. 30-35 “Topics in FY2013”P. 44-45 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 46-47 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 48-49 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”P. 14-17 “Document Solutions”
P. 18-19 “Highly Functional Materials”P. 20-22 “Graphic Systems”P. 28-29 “CSR Management”P. 34-36 “Promoting Anti-Global Warming 
Measures”
P. 37-39 “Development and Dissemination 
of Environmentally Conscious Products and Services”
P. 40-41 “Effective Use of Resources”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting”
○EN27Percentage of products sold and their 
packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.None None
Compliance
◎EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations.P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 67 “Environmental Aspects (Legal Compliance Measures)”
Transport
○EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce.P. 43 “Overall View of the Environmental Impact of the Fujifilm Group”P. 30-31 “Social and Environmental Impact Arising from Fujifilm Group Activities”
Overall
○EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting”
Labor Practices and Decent WorkDisclosure on Management ApproachGoals and Performance P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
Policy P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”P. 12-13 “In Creating a New Medium-Term 
CSR Plan”
P. 14-15 “Creating the Triple Promotion Policy”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 54-55 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”
P. 56 “Occupational Health and Safety”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”P. 47-49 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”
P. 50 “Occupational Health and Safety”
Organizational Responsibility P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Training and Awareness P. 54-55 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”P. 47-49 “Effective Utilization and Training of Human Resources”
Monitoring and Follow-up P. 56 “Occupational Health and Safety” P. 50 “Occupational Health and Safety”
Additional Contextual Information P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business 
Overview”P. 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
Employment
◎LA1Total workforce by employment type, 
employment contract, and region.P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P. 72 “Fujifilm Group Organization and Business 
Overview”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 73 “Fujifilm Group Organization Overview”
◎LA2Total number and rate of employee turnover by 
age group, gender, and region.P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
○LA3Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”─ 9 ─Labor / Management Relations
◎LA4Percentage of employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
◎LA5Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant 
operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements.None None
Occupational Health and Safety
○LA6Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.None None
◎LA7Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region.P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
◎LA8Education, training, counseling, prevention, 
and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.P. 56 “Occupational Health and Safety” P. 50 “Occupational Health and Safety”
◎LA9Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.None None
Training and Education
◎LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category.None None
○LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.P. 54-55 “Effective Utilization and Training of Human Resources”P. 47-49 “Effective Utilization and Training of Human Resources”
○LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews.None None
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
◎LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
◎LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by 
employee category.None None
Human RightsDisclosure on Management ApproachGoals and Performance P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Policy P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
P. 53 “Respect for Human Rights”P. 32-33 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
P. 46 “Respect for Human Rights”
Organizational Responsibility P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
P. 32-33 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
Training and Awareness P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance and Risk Management Activities”
P. 54-55 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”P. 32-33 “Quality Improvement in Compliance and Risk Management Activities”
P. 47-49 “Effective Utilization and Training of 
Human Resources”
Monitoring and Follow-up P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance and Risk Management Activities”
P. 57 “Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers”P. 62 “Compliance and Risk Management”P. 32-33 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
P. 60 “Compliance and Risk Management”P. 51 “Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers”
Additional Contextual Information P. 63 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P. 64 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”P . 62 “Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM 
Corporation)”
P . 63 “Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)”
Investment and Procurement Practices
◎HR1Percentage and total number of significant 
investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.None None
◎HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken.P. 57 “Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers” P. 51 “Promoting CSR Among Our Suppliers”─ 10 ─○HR3Total hours of employee training on policies and 
procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.None None
Non-discrimination
HR4Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.None None
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
◎HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.None None
Child Labor
◎HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor.None None
◎HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor.None None
Security Practices
○HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.None None
Indigenous Rights
○HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.N/A N/A
SocietyDisclosure on Management ApproachGoals and Performance P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 18-21 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
through Our Business Activities [Health]”
P. 22-24 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
through Our Business Activities [Daily Life]”
P. 25-26 “Contribute to Solving Social Issues 
through Our Business Activities [Working Style]”
P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Policy P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”P. 12-13 “In Creating a New Medium-Term 
CSR Plan”
P. 14-15 “Creating the Triple Promotion Policy”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Organizational Responsibility P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Training and Awareness P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Monitoring and Follow-up P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting)”
Additional Contextual Information P. 39-40 “CSR Management”
P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting, Environmental Accounting)”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
P. 68-69 “Sustainability Accounting (Labor 
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting)”
Community
◎SO1Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.None None
Corruption
◎SO2Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.N/A N/A
◎SO3Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures.P. 62 “Compliance and Risk Management” P. 60 “Compliance and Risk Management”
◎SO4Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.None None─ 11 ─Public Policy
◎SO5Public policy positions and participation in 
public policy development and lobbying.N/A N/A
○SO6Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.N/A N/A
Anti-Competitive Behavior
◎SO7Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.N/A N/A
Compliance
◎SO8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.P. 65-67 “Environmental Aspects” P. 67 “Environmental Aspects (Legal Compliance Measures)”
Product ResponsibilityDisclosure on Management ApproachGoals and Performance P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”
P. 28-29 “CSR Activity Report in FY2013”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 2-3 “Top Commitment”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Policy P. 4-5 “Top Commitment”P. 39-40 “CSR Management”P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
P. 32-33 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”
Organizational Responsibility None None
Training and Awareness P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Monitoring and Follow-up P. 39-40 “CSR Management” P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
Additional Contextual Information P. 39-40 “CSR Management”
P. 41-42 “Quality Improvement in Compliance 
and Risk Management Activities”P. 25-29 “CSR Management”
P. 60 “Compliance and Risk Management”
Customer Health and Safety
◎PR1Life cycle stages in which health and safety 
impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures.FUJIFILM Holdings website: Application of Integrated Management System (IMS)FUJIFILM Holdings website (Quality Policy: Application of Integrated Management System (IMS))
○PR2Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.N/A N/A
Product and Service Labeling
◎PR3Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirementsNone None
○PR4Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.N/A N/A
○PR5Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.P. 58-59 “Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views”P. 56-58 “Products and Services which Reflect Our Customers’ Views”
P. 61 “Communication with Customers and 
Suppliers”
Marketing Communications
◎PR6Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.None None
○PR7Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.N/A N/A─ 12 ─Customer Privacy
○PR8Total number of substantiated complaints 
regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.N/A N/A
Compliance
◎PR9Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.N/A N/A
Regarding “Pages in this Report”:
None: When FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report has no clear quantitative information that corresponds to the indicator despite said indicator being under Fujifilm Group’s management.
N/A: When those indicators have little relation with the Fujifilm Group’s business or there is no need of management.