About the illustration on the front cover
Cypress Tree was created by the renowned Momoyama period artist Kano Eitoku. Although 
the piece is now a folding screen, it was once sliding-door paintings in the Hachijonomiya residence in 1590. Whether Eitoku saw the completion of this work is unknown because of his death in September of the same year, but the design centered on a large tree and the 
gorgeous gold-leaf ground strongly resembles his style. Cypress Tree highlights the swinging 
limbs of the cypress that seem to dance contrasted by the limited cold colors.
Tokyo National Museum collection
Image : TNM Image Archives Source Cypress Tree  Azuchi-Momoyama period 16th century
Since its founding, the Fujifilm Group has valued air and water. The dancing 
limbs of the large cypress tree nurtured by water and air symbolize the strong progress of society and are used for the front cover of this report.
Please address inquiries on this publication to:
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Date of publication: October 2011
©2011 FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationCSR Group, General Affairs Division
Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052, Japan
Tel.: +81-3-6271-2065Fax: +81-3-6271-1190
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/contact/index.htmlFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 20112 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 3Top Commitment
Facing the earthquake disaster with  
a founder’s mentality
I offer my condolences to the victims, families, and to 
everyone who was afflicted by The Great East Japan Earthquake and I pray that the ongoing hardships of daily life can be minimized as soon as possible without any further burden. The Fujifilm Group has provided donations, medical 
equipment, and medical supplies in addition to simulta-neously offering timely support for our customers’ equipment, such as medical equipment, photo printers (minilabs), and copy machines. We are continuing to provide support activities utilizing the Fujifilm Group’s businesses through free rentals of multifunctional machines to recover photos and albums damaged by water and mud as well as information valuable to the lives of the victims in addition to providing the appropriate information related to radiation. We will continue to do everything we can to support those who have been afflicted by this disaster in the future. This tragedy has left the scars and challenges that 
stem from one of the most catastrophic earthquakes ever recorded. However, the world has recognized the har-mony and order of the Japanese people allowing even Japanese to see their underlying strength and autonomy. Even at the Fujifilm Group, our employees are voluntarily and proactively fulfilling their responsibility to society by striving to support our customers and be part of the reconstruction efforts in the afflicted areas under the insurmountable challenges of a nuclear power accident and fragmented transportation network. Our devoted commitment to our partners and companies as well as society and the nation during these trying times is realized social responsibility of a leading company, which can also be called sustainable management.   Using the combined force of the Fujifilm Group in the 
future, our efforts will strive for an outwardly, upwardly, and positively focused consciousness to bolster an aggressive mentality and foster a bright and positive approach in Japan eliminating any stagnation with confidence.
Contributing to resolving social problems by 
meeting diversifying needs
The Fujifilm Group is expanding its businesses globally 
while striving to create new value by further diversifying existing businesses and focusing on management resources, such as research and development, as well as human resources in vital business regions that can lead our advanced and unique technology. For example, we strive to develop generic medicines 
using our unique FTD technology* by expanding the region of medical treatment in addition to existing prevention and diagnosis aiming to be a general healthcare company. We also assist in improving the quality of diagnosis by providing digital imaging diagnostic systems to medical institutions and clinics in emerging countries, not just Japan. We are working to enhance informational infrastructures by supplying environmentally-friendly and small LED printers to developing countries, even in the office equipment field.by the philosophy at the origin of the Fujifilm Group, which has been perpetuated since our establishment.
Tackling new crisis outwardly, upwardly,  
and positively
Fujifilm has built a strong business structure by overcoming 
the reduction in demand for photography film due to the sudden increase in digital media since 2000 as well as the collapse of Lehman Brothers. This has been achieved through structural reorganization undertaken by the Fujifilm Group employees as a whole and the reformation of our business structure, reinforcing our divisional and departmental expertise, in addition to the philosophy perpetuated since our establishment. In what could be called the largest earthquake ever recorded, many challenges including the destruction of the myth related to the safety of nuclear power genera-tion as well as electricity shortages and harmful rumors have extensively damaged the Japanese economy. The continued effect on economic activities in the future is unavoidable. Furthermore, the effect of unstable international affairs, such as the political uncertainty of the Middle East and North Africa, the financial crisis in North America, and the fluctuating exchange rates as well as cost of raw materials, cannot be predicted. Once again, we find ourselves in the middle of 
troubled waters. Even under these circumstances, we can directly 
confront any crisis we encounter in the future through the philosophy and strong business structure of the Fujifilm Group, and, more than anything else, our advanced and unique technological abilities that we have cultivated. We will continue to provide new value to society as the  In this way, we are using all of our strength to con-
tribute to solving social issues by meeting diversifying needs through a focus on detailed marketing that fits the circumstances of each country around the world from now and into the future. 
Continuing to develop innovations to 
enhance a sustainable society
Being satisfied with our current ways, concepts and 
technology will not allow us to continue to provide new value to clearly meet the expectations and needs of an ever changing society.  To accelerate new value creation, we need to spark 
innovation regardless of the current trends because it is the driving force for generating new value. The Fujifilm Group will continue to act innovatively 
as it has up until now, create new value beneficial to society, and deliver that innovation to the world. In this way, an  approach and corporate activities that are effective at any time and under any environment are vital for a corporate social responsibility (CSR) that contributes to enhancing a sustainable society.*  FTD technology: A technological concept unique to Fujifilm for the “formulation” 
of a good balance between necessary medical and cosmetic components, “targeting” the necessary areas, and offering “delivery” in the necessary form. 
Shigetaka Komori
President and Chief Executive Officer,
FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationChairman, Group CSR Committee
To continually ask ourselves what truly needs to be done.
To further our business with integrity by striving toward  extensive innovation. To continue to create new values and a new future.That in itself is sustainable management.4 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 5Editorial Policy CONTENTS
Process of creating the reporthttp://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/index.html
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/sustainability/report/guideline/index.htmlFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 consists of 
4 parts: “Enhancing Quality of Life,” “Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm 
Group after the Great East Japan Earthquake,” “Achievements in 
CSR Priority Areas”, and “Data and Information”. The feature 
section summarizes activities that are aimed at enhancing quality of 
life, our corporate philosophy. The section on Achievements in CSR 
Priority Areas outlines the results of activities conducted based on our 
medium-term CSR plan.
 As seen in the figure on the right, out of the three areas of 
corporate activities, the Sustainability Report focuses on the 
environmental and social aspects and provides information that is 
of great importance to the Fujifilm Group and its stakeholders. (For 
reports focusing on the economic area, please refer to investor relations information on the company’s website as well as our annual 
reports.) The report is publicly available online and can be found on FUJIFILM Holdings’ website in the section on CSR activities. The PDF 
version of this year’s Sustainability Report in booklet format can 
also be downloaded from the website. A conceptual diagram on the amount of information it provides is given on the right. Objective 
opinions received from many specialists and stakeholders on the 
Group’s CSR activities are also contained in the report.
The report can be accessed on the website: 
Period covered by the report
Fiscal year 2010 (April 1, 2010 – March 31, 2011) is covered in the 
performance data. With regards to the contents of activities, wher-ever possible, we have conveyed the most recent trends, including 
activities in fiscal 2011.
Organizations covered by the report
The Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, FUJIFILM Corporation and its 
affiliates, Fuji Xerox and its affiliates, Toyama Chemical, and FUJIFILM Business Expert)
• 
Major consolidated companies are shown on p. 24, p. 71 and on our website.
•  Quantitative information about personnel and labor affairs is non-
consolidated data for FUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji Xerox.
•  The scope of Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting is 
shown on p. 56. The scope of Environmental Accounting is shown 
on p. 67.
Referenced guidelines
•  Japan’s Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting 
Guidelines Towards a Sustainable Society (2007 Version)
•  GRI: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006
•  Japan’s Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Accounting 
Guidelines (2005 Version)
Supplemental information regarding reported matters
•  The term “employees” refers to all employees, including managers, 
general employees, and part-time staff. The term, “company em-
ployees” indicates regular employees (full-time staff). To further 
ensure the accuracy of the report, the terms “regular employees” 
and “non-regular employees” (temporary staff, part-time staff, 
others) have been used separately as required.
•  The operating company, Fuji Xerox, issues a separate sustainability re-
port. Please refer to that report for details on the activities of Fuji Xerox.
GRI Guidelines (G3) Comparison Tablehttp://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/business/group/index.html
Employees
Fujiﬁlm Group
MarketSuppliersTransaction
partnersIndustrial associations
Government organizations
Business partnersShareholders
and
investors
Customers
Future
generations
Local
communities
NPOs/NGOsSociety  (local and global)
EnvironmentFujiﬁlm Group and stakeholders
Related page   p. 56 Communication with Stakeholders
Stakeholder s
Group companiesCommunication (using tools such as dialogue meetings, surveys, and inquiries)
Use as
communication
tools
Publishing
the 2010 reportUse as
communication
toolsIncorporation
of opinions
Daily business operations (CSR activities)Use as
communication
toolsFormulating
the editorial
policyReceiving
improvement
proposals from
third partiesReceiving
third-party
opinionsInterviewing
individual
departmentsPublishing
the 2011 report
Use as
communication
toolsIncorporatio n
of improvement
proposalsCollection and
provision
of informationSeptember 2010 December February to July 2011 July to August October October
FUJIFILM HoldingsTop Commitment 2
Editorial Policy 4
Corporate Philosophy, Vision, Charter for Corporate 
Behavior, and Approach to CSR 6
Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life 7
Part 1 
Healthcare Business 8
Part 2 The Fujifilm Group’s Healthcare IT 14
Part 3 Energy Cost Reduction Project:  
for Electricity, Gas, and Fuel 16
Part 4 Activities That Create a Sense of Unity 18
Part5 
Human Resources Development and Its Exchange  
within Fujifilm Group 20
Consolidated Subsidiaries of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation 24
Report: Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group  
after the Great East Japan Earthquake  25
Achievements in CSR Priority Areas 31
The Fujifilm Group’s Medium-Term CSR Plan 32
Climate Change Measures 34
Promotion of Design for Environment (DfE) 36
Biodiversity Conservation 38
Management of Chemical Substances 40
Social Contribution Activities 42
Management System 46
CSR Activities Overseas 50
Data and Information 53
Compliance and Risk Management 54
Communication with Stakeholders, and the Labor  
Environment and Social Benefit Accounting 56
Communication with Customers 57
Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation) 58
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) 59
The Fujifilm Group’s Environmental Burden 60
Environmental Aspects 62
Fujifilm Group Green Policy 66
Environmental Accounting 67
Domestic and International Appraisals 68
Third-Party Opinion 69
Fujifilm Group Business Overview 70
Fujifilm Group Organization Overview 71Disclosed in the
Sustainability Report
(PDF)
Disclosed on the website (HTML)
Importance of information to the Fujiﬁlm GroupHigh
Low HighEnvironmental
(including governance)
disclosed as CSR information
Social
(including governance) 
disclosed as CSR informationEconomic
(including governance)
disclosed as IR informationImportance of information
to stakeholders6 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 7We will use leading-edge, proprietary technologies to 
provide top-quality products and services that contribute to the advancement of culture, science, technology and 
industry, as well as improved health and environmental 
protection in society. Our overarching aim is to help en-hance the quality of life of people worldwide.
We will create new value by integrating our distinctive and 
leading-edge technologies as well as turning out proprietary 
technologies to continue providing top-quality products and services that cultivate customer trust and satisfaction.
Through these efforts we will transcend past boundaries of 
“Imaging and Information” to advance the development of cul-
ture, science, technology and industry across society and further-more improve human health and protect the environment.
Our new corporate philosophy is based on the recognition that 
our mission, through our sustained corporate activities, is to significantly contribute to the realization of a society in which all people across the world can lead lives that are abundant in spiritual as well as material wealth with a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction.Anchored by an open, fair and clear corporate culture and with leading-edge, proprietary technologies, Fujifilm is determined to remain a leading company by boldly taking 
up the challenge of developing new products and creat-
ing new value.
We will create an open, fair and clear workplace culture that 
allows us to discern objective facts in a sincere and straightfor-
ward manner, make rational decisions, and continuously take 
on challenges with courage.
With this corporate culture, we will further hone our leading-
edge, proprietary technologies and develop innovative products 
and services that gain customer trust and provide satisfaction to 
remain a vigorous company, consistently creating new value and exercising pioneering leadership.
In addition to pursuing profits through fair competition, corpora-tions must make a contribution to society at large. To this end, the Fujifilm Group, in its corporate activities in Japan and abroad, 
respects human rights, observes both the spirit and the letter of 
all laws and regulations and international rules, and, acting in a 
socially responsible manner, works independently toward the 
sustainable development of society and the Fujifilm Group com-
panies, in accordance with the following five principles.1. A Trusted Company2. Social Responsibility3. Respect for Human Rights4. Global Environmental Conservation5. Vibrant Workplaces
Recognizing top management’s responsibility to embody the 
spirit of this Charter, Fujifilm Group executives shall lead by ex-ample and promote sound understanding of the Charter both within Group companies and among business partners. They shall strive to continually take account of views within and out-side the Group, establish efficient corporate systems, and foster high ethical standards.
In the event of situations that contravene this Charter, top man-
agement shall clearly indicate both within and outside the Group 
its approach to resolving the situation and work to identify its 
causes and prevent any recurrence. Top management shall take 
accountability, promptly and appropriately disclose information, and take strict disciplinary action when appropriate, including in regard to itself.
Fujifilm Group Code of ConductThe Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR is to contribute to the 
sustainable development of society by putting into practice the Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Philosophy, and realizing its Vision 
through sincere and fair business activities.
We will:
1.  fulfill our economic and legal responsibilities, and respond to 
society’s demands by contributing as a corporate citizen to the development of culture and technology in society and environ-mental preservation.
2.  constantly reassess whether our CSR activities are respond-
ing adequately to the demands and expectations of society and whether those activities are conducted properly through dialogue with our stakeholders including custom-
ers, shareholders, investors, employees, local communities, 
and business partners.
3.  enhance corporate transparency by actively disclosing infor-mation to fulfill our accountability for our business activities.Corporate Philosophy 
—The Unchanging Values of the Fujiﬁlm Group—
Fujiﬁlm Group
Charter for Corporate BehaviorThe Fujiﬁlm Group’s
Approach to CSRVision
—Fujiﬁlm Group’s Ideals—
Feature
Enhancing  
Quality of Life
Part 1 
Healthcare Business …………………………… 8
Part 2 The Fujifilm Group’s Healthcare IT ………… 14
Part 3 Energy Cost Reduction Project:  
for Electricity, Gas, and Fuel ………………… 16
Part4 Activities That Create a Sense of Unity …… 18
Part5 Human Resources Development and  
Its Exchange within Fujifilm Group
 …………… 20
Consolidated Subsidiaries  
of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation ………… 24In this section, based on the theme of “Enhancing 
Quality of Life”, our corporate philosophy, 
we introduce examples of business in which we 
generated new value through Group companies’ 
cooperation, and describe various efforts to 
develop and exchange human resources that will sustain our business activities.
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/
en/about/philosophy/law/index.htmlFUJIFILM Corporation Fuji Xerox Co ., Ltd.
Industry
Industries
Government
Public agencies
Academia
UniversitiesFUJIFILM Advanced Researc h Labor atories Resear ch and Technology Headquarters Resear ch and Technology Headquarters
Domestic and
Overseas AffiliatesToyama Chemical
Co., Ltd.Toyama Chemical
Co., Ltd.
Domestic and
Overseas AffiliatesMarking Materials
Technology Headquarter sProduction Technology Headquarter sCorporate LaboratoriesCorporate Laboratories
Divisional LaboratoriesDivisional LaboratoriesFundamental Technology
Research LaboratoriesFundamental Technology
Research Laboratories
Intellectual
Property HeadquartersIntellectual
Property Headquarters
P
Frontier
Core-T echnology 
Laboratorie sFrontier
Core-T echnology 
Laboratorie s
Advanced
Marking Research
Laboratorie sAdvanced
Marking Research
Laboratorie sSynthetic
Organic Chemistr y
Laboratorie sSynthetic
Organic Chemistr y
Laboratorie s
Pharmaceutical and
Healthcare Research
Laboratorie sPharmaceutical and
Healthcare Research
Laboratorie s
Electroni c
Materials Research
Laboratorie sElectroni c
Materials Research
Laboratorie sFlat Pa nel Display
Materials Research
LaboratoriesFlat Pa nel Display
Materials Research
Laboratories
Medical Systems
Research an d
Development CenterMedical Systems
Research an d
Development CenterOptical Device
Development CenterOptical Device
Development CenterProduction Engineerin g
and Development CenterProduction Engineerin g
and Development Center
Analysis
Technology CenterAnalysis
Technology Center
Software Research
and Development CenterSoftware Research
and Development Center
Imaging
Technology CenterImaging
Technology CenterMarking and Material
Research LaboratoryMarking and Material
Research LaboratoryIncubation CenterIncubation Center
Communication
Technology LaboratoryCommunication
Technology Laboratory
Chemicals 
Technology
Development 
Division Chemicals 
Technology
Development 
Division Marking Materials 
Research
and Development 
HeadquartersMarking Materials 
Research
and Development 
Headquarters
Essential Components
and Materials Development
DivisionEssential Components
and Materials Development
DivisionMarking Unit 
Manufacturing
Engineering  Marking Unit 
Manufacturing
Engineering  
Material Production
Technology DivisionMaterial Production
Technology DivisionElectronic Device
Technology DivisionElectronic Device
Technology DivisionSystem
Technology LaboratorySystem
Technology LaboratoryKey Technology
Laborator yKey Technology
Laborator y
Development and sale of radioactive 
pharmaceutical productsFUJIFILM RI PharmaFUJIFILM RI Pharma
 FUJIFILM PharmaFUJIFILM Pharma
Development and 
sale of pharmaceutical products
Toyama ChemicalToyama Chemical
Development of small molecule 
pharmaceutical products
Technological r esourc es of Fujifilm
Development and sale of products 
for regenerative medicineJapan Tissue EngineeringJapan Tissue Engineering
Development of antibody drugsPerseus Pr oteomics Perseus Pr oteomics
Search for small molecule pharmaceutical products
Development of materials for regenerative medicine
Development of FTD technologiesFujifilm
 (Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories )Fujifilm
 (Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories )FUJIFILM FinechemicalsFUJIFILM Finechemicals
Production of raw materials 
for pharmaceutical productsResearch
on collagenImaging
and
diagnostic
technologiesOriginal
nanotechnologiesSynthesis 
technologies
and 
chemical librar yAnalysis
and 
evaluation
technologies
Part 1: Healthcare Business
The Pharmaceutical Products Division was established in 
June 2010 to make significant headway as a compre-
hensive healthcare company. The division has two roles, expanding Fujifilm’s pharmaceutical business and unify-
ing management of the Group companies involved in its pharmaceutical business.
 To expand the business, the division not only cre-
ates basic strategies for the Fujifilm Group’s pharmaceu-tical business, such as promoting overseas business, 
creating and executing M&As and licensing strategies, 
and improving mechanisms for cross-group research and development, it also specifies the Group’s business 
domain and constructs new business models. For unified management of Group companies in Toward a unique pharmaceutical businessFujifilm’s Pharmaceutical Products Division: Its role and systems
our pharmaceutical business, the division manages busi-ness planning, research, production, pharmaceutical af-
fairs, and systems assuring product quality. The division 
is building a unified management system for the Group 
as part of its functions for company headquarters. Based 
on such concepts as optimization for the entire Group 
and creating a sense of unity in the Group, the division has set up an R&D Committee, a Production System 
Committee, a Licensing Committee, a Pharmaceutical Affairs Committee, and a liaison conference for Group 
companies in the pharmaceutical business.
 The division will pursue unique pharmaceutical 
business by taking advantage of the technological re-sources of Fujifilm and the strengths of Group companies 
and by organizing the Group’s best efforts.
The Fujifilm Group fully entered the pharmaceutical business in 2008, welcoming Toyama 
Chemical to the Group. The year 2010 was one filled with dynamic changes focused on 
accelerating our activities as a comprehensive healthcare company. In June 2010, the Pharmaceutical Products Division was established to unify all of our pharmaceutical busi-ness. Also, the Drug Discovery Research Laboratories and the Life Science Research 
Laboratories were unified into the Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories. 
Further progress was made in creating a system for wide-ranging pharmaceutical business with, for example, the inception of FUJIFILM Pharma, which develops and sells high-value-
added generic pharmaceutical products, and a capital alliance with Japan Tissue Engineering, 
a pioneer in regenerative medicine.
The Fujifilm Group is set to make major progress as 
a comprehensive healthcare company 2 years after 
its full entry into the pharmaceutical business. 
Aiming at the development of original advanced 
technologies, we are encouraging increased co-
operation among Group companies including FUJIFILM 
Corporation, Toyama Chemical, FUJIFILM RI Pharma, and FUJIFILM Pharma.Creating New Value through 
Greater Cooperation  
within the GroupHealthcare Business Part 1
2010: The year we moved forward as a comprehensive healthcare company
FUJIFILM Advanced Research LaboratoriesFujiﬁlm’s Pharmaceutical Products Division and Group companies
Research and development at the Fujiﬁlm Group
8 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 9Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifeWant to do
(mission)
Should do Can do
Operational resources (needs, strategies ) (seeds)
• Brand
• Modern management
• Technology
• Sales forceRationalityPassion, ambition
Sense of responsibilityEntrepreneurship
• Marketability
• User needs•
 Differentiation  (value creation)
• Corporate strategies
New drugs 
by Toyama Chemical
Influenza treatment drug
T-705Fujifilm’s
diagnostic agent
High sensitivity
immunochromatography
Advanced medical system
bringing together diagnosis
and pharmacyNew breakthrough drug 
suppressing viral growth itself, 
unlike traditional influenza 
treatment drugs (phase    )Utilization of photographic amplification 
technology; possible to diagnose 
early-stage infection with 100-fold 
sensitivity compared to traditional productsPart 1: Healthcare Business
With the ambitious plan of becoming a comprehensive 
healthcare company, we need to focus on our special-
ized fields and increase the efficiency and speed of our 
business. To realize this, the Pharmaceutical Products 
Division has conducted many projects involving different companies and departments, and has produced some 
extremely positive results.
 One such example is the development of an advanced 
influenza treatment system. The system combines the 
new drug T-705 developed by Toyama Chemical for sup-pressing viral growth and a high-sensitivity diagnostic 
agent to which Fujifilm’s photographic amplification technology is applied. Also, the Pharmaceutical and 
Healthcare Research Laboratories and other research centers have been actively conducting research and de-
velopment of not only advanced technologies for treating cancer, central nervous system diseases, and inflamma-
tory diseases, but also generic drugs with increased functionality utilizing our FTD technology.
 At the same time, we are actively establishing and 
maintaining overseas sites so that we can conduct clini-
cal tests in foreign countries, which have different 
pharmaceutical laws, and expand our business widely in 
overseas markets in the future. The strong operation of 
the newly established Pharmaceutical Products Division The successful launching of a new business hinges on 
three key terms: “can do”, “should do”, and “want to do”. The reason why we made a significant change in 
our course is because these three keywords clearly ap-plied to our business.
 The key term “can do” represents a company’s po-
tential. Fujifilm has been involved with healthcare 
through its production of X-ray film since 1936, soon after the company’s inception. We have strong ties with 
medical practice, and we continue to maintain the larg-est share in the domestic market as a provider of medical 
imaging information systems. Photographic technology is similar to pharmaceuti-
cal technology in its use of fine chemicals.* We have 
assembled a one-of-a-kind chemical library of 200,000 
compounds through our photographic film business. The library contains a number of compounds that can 
potentially be used in pharmaceutical products, such as 
FUJIFILM Pharma started in April 2010 with the primary 
responsibilities of development and sales in Fujifilm’s 
pharmaceutical business. We started with the release of 
more than 170 generic pharmaceutical products and, in 
November, released five generic pharmaceutical prod-
ucts under our own brand. We now have more than 
10,000 customers and recognize that the Fujifilm brand 
is greatly trusted in the market. Fujifilm has rigorously 
controlled product quality by applying its own standards, 
being careful not to miss a once-in-a-lifetime moment 
for a “great memory”. This corporate culture of achiev-
ing high product quality under self-imposed rules has 
influenced our pharmaceutical business too, and 
FUJIFILM Pharma strives to control product quality, plac-
ing emphasis on the 3 qualities of the raw materials 
used, the manufacturing process, and post-marketing 
information gathering and distribution. We chose to 
focus on generic pharmaceutical products because we 
intend to develop pharmaceutical products with high 
added value, using the FTD technology from among 
Fujifilm’s advanced technologies that can be applied to 
pharmaceutical products. In cooperation with FUJIFILM Similarities between photographic ﬁlm  
technology and healthcareCreating unique pharmaceutical products through interactions between ﬁrst-rate personnel
Toward new value creationYuzo Toda
Director
FUJIFILM HoldingsDirector Senior Vice PresidentGeneral ManagerPharmaceutical Product DivisionFUJIFILM CorprationGoals for the Pharmaceutical Products Division
Activities at FUJIFILM Pharmacan be attributed to employees actively interacting with 
each other across the Group’s companies. For instance, 
Toyama Chemical has a group of excellent researchers highly capable of identifying and judging the potential usefulness of materials for new drugs and finding the 
shortest path to product release, and has created nu-merous original new drugs. FUJIFILM Pharma is special-
ized in development and sales, with professionals who have detailed knowledge of the pharmaceutical industry 
and are more than ready to take on a challenge. Every employee is a first-rate professional with a diverse range 
of skills, and synergy arises from friendly competition. We are confident that we have established a strong 
team for unique new drug development. We will approach research and development of 
pharmaceutical products from a creative perspective 
unrivaled by other pharmaceutical companies because we 
came from a different industry. We will focus on contributing to improving people’s quality of life in all that we do.pigments with antineoplastic properties. Also, collagen, which is a main component of skin, cartilage, and liga-
ment, is a substrate of film, and technologies for manu-facturing collagen are expected to be applied in regenerative medicine. Our original nanotechnologies 
that make high-level emulsification and dispersion pos-sible can be applied to FTD (formulation, targeting, and 
delivery) technology, which can deliver chemical com-pounds to targeted areas in appropriate form, quantity, 
and timing. As many as 100 kinds of chemical com-pounds are used for film approximately 18 microns 
thick, and it cannot function as a product without their complex interactions. The enormous number of tech-
nologies accumulated for photographic film is indeed a mountain of treasure. It is our duty to utilize these 
technologies in closely related medical fields and not to consider them merely as legacies of the past.
 The key term “should do” represents marketability. 
With populations aging worldwide, increased healthcare 
costs have become a serious social issue, and people’s 
medical needs and views on health are shifting signifi-
cantly. The future requires us to consider healthcare in a 
comprehensive framework consisting of prevention, di-
agnosis, and treatment, and the Fujifilm Group has 
technologies that can contribute to each of these as-
pects. As the number of new drugs developed declines 
year on year, we believe that companies like us with 
technological potential from a different industry are 
now in demand. This belief has been borne out by the 
external encouragement we have received regarding 
our entry into the healthcare industry.
 The key term “want to do” reflects passion and a 
sense of responsibility. The Pharmaceutical Products Division is relishing the task of changing healthcare with 
our original technologies.Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories, we are currently developing new pharmaceutical prod-
ucts with better quality and efficacy than existing prod-
ucts. It has become difficult in recent years to launch 
new breakthrough drugs in the market, and the phar-
maceutical industry has increasingly become a “closed” 
industry. Against this backdrop, various professionals 
who expect new things have gathered at FUJIFILM 
Pharma. We believe that new value is created when 
there is a concentration of knowledge among employees 
with diverse backgrounds, who work in an open corpo-
rate culture that is not constrained by existing common 
knowledge. FUJIFILM Pharma aims to become a com-
prehensive healthcare company that produces new 
drugs as well as generics.Relationships between  “can do”, “should do”, and “want to do”The Fujiﬁlm Group’s solution to  influenza treatment
*  Fine chemicals: Pure substances with added value which have been processed 
for specialized applications.
Hideki Murakami
General Manager, Strategic Product 
Planning and Management Department, FUJIFILM Pharma Co., Ltd.  (at the time of the interview)Operations Manager, Pharmaceutical Products Division, FUJIFILM Corporation  
(from July 1, 2011)
10 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 11Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifePart 1: Healthcare Business
In 2008, I was sent to Toyama Chemical for one year 
before the Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research 
Laboratories were established. Working side-by-side 
with the researchers there, I realized that there were 
common aspects—which were significant from a 
qualitative standpoint—between photographic film 
manufacture and drugs manufacture. One example is 
the method for managing product quality. Since film is 
a product that is based on interactions between various chemical substances, reproducibility is maintained by an 
extremely precise workflow, and the method used is similar to a detailed testing method employed for 
pharmaceutical products.
 For consumer products, such as film, there are many 
model changes after its initial release in the market, and new products are announced almost every year. In con-
trast, because it takes an enormous amount of time and 
money for pharmaceutical products to be approved, 
new drugs, once completed, are rarely improved after-
ward. I realized that there would be new possibilities in 
the area of generic drugs and the like if the culture of 
rigorously pursuing pharmaceutical safety was combined 
with the culture of making continuous improvements 
from the perspective of final users.
 The Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research 
Laboratories are currently running multiple projects in the areas of anticancer drugs, central nervous system diseases, 
inflammatory diseases, FTD technology research, and re-
generative medicine. In their collaboration, researchers 
from Toyama Chemical and FUJIFILM Corporation are 
taking advantage of each other’s specialties.
Management of the Laboratories presented a challenge 
for us. In the photographic film business, there is a culture 
of frequent communication, reporting, and consulting The dynamic fusion of methods  
and technologiesHearing from the research laboratories: The Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories Activities at the Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories
Hideyasu Fujiwara
Researcher Manager,  
FUJIFILM Pharmaceutical and  
Healthcare Research Laboratories  
FUJIFILM CorporationTakafumi Suehiro
Researcher (from Toyama Chemical), 
FUJIFILM Pharmaceutical and  
Healthcare Research Laboratories  
FUJIFILM CorporationTakuya Yokokawa
General Manager, Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Research Laboratories
Hideyasu Fujiwara, Researrch Manager (left) and Takafumi Suehiro, Researcher (right)
I am a member of a project that aims to develop new anti-
cancer drugs and new drugs for autoimmune diseases, 
and I am responsible for organic synthesis. Although the 
project members have been brought together from 
FUJIFILM Corporation and Toyama Chemical, through co-
operative efforts our work is progressing rapidly because 
the core technology is common and because we all can 
employ our own methodology. Thanks to the collaboration 
with Toyama Chemical, I can see the path to launching 
new products for pharmacological evaluations of candidate 
substances for new drugs, tests for toxicity, and clinical 
tests. This motivates me to do my absolute best in my 
work. Before the Laboratories were established, I was sent 
to Toyama Chemical where I met colleagues who were 
knowledgeable on experiments and approval procedures. 
The personal connections that I made and continue to 
keep still help me accomplish my work now. I realize that 
networks of researchers lead to breakthroughs that can 
overcome difficult problems. Along with the Laboratories, 
we also have basic technology centers here, including the 
Analysis Technology Center, the Image Technology Center, 
and the Safety Evaluation Center, which makes it possible 
for us to acquire analytical data with the use of cutting-
edge technologies. This is the strength of working as a 
group. We have research topics that we want to collabo-
rate on with FUJIFILM RI Pharma, a pioneer in radioactive 
pharmaceutical products. I believe that we should continue 
with intra-group collaborations and interactions. I hope 
that we will soon develop promising candidates for new 
drugs, utilizing this advantageous environment to the full.I came here when the Laboratories were in the process of being established and I was involved in various tasks 
from the purchase of instruments to the design of the 
Experiment Building. Since there were many new mid-
career employees, we started with creating common 
rules. The atmosphere at Fujifilm is similar to that at 
Toyama Chemical because both are made up of groups 
of craftsman-like professionals, and this meant we 
could naturally create an environment in which re-
searchers accept each other’s methodology so that 
they can each freely turn his or her ideas into reality. 
A difference, if any, could be seen between our 
approaches to time and cost. Fujifilm rigorously maintains 
its approach to time management: to make time for 
creative activities, time used for other work is reduced 
by outsourcing and purchasing machines. This leads to 
speed. In contrast, Toyama Chemical has robust capa-
bilities that enable the company to develop unprece-
dented original drugs as long as the proofs of concept 
are clear. I believe that unexpected results can be ob-
tained when we utilize the positive aspects of such 
speed and solid capabilities. During lunch times, cross-
project seminars are voluntarily held, with participants 
learning and eating at the same time. This reflects the 
fact that we have many researchers wanting to present 
their research results. Our researchers are greatly en-
thusiastic, believing that more interesting things can 
be accomplished in such an exciting environment.
The Fujifilm Group has made its full-fledged debut into the 
pharmaceutical industry, and we believe that new types of needs for pharmaceutical products will arise in the future 
due to structural changes to society. The Fujifilm Group 
brings with it three strengths based on its photographic film technologies particularly applicable to these societal needs: first, its chemical library, second, its expertise in collagen-related research, which can contribute to overall enhancing quality of life, and third, its FTD technologies, which may be used to develop effective medications or improve existing ones. We hope they will align their efforts 
along these strengths to blaze trails through new markets, 
both in Japan and overseas. Likewise, I look forward to their contributions toward the solution of societal ills through innovations in integrating imaging technologies and drug development that allow us to actually see medici-nal effects.
Creating value needed in 
the era of medical care
Mr. Shinsuke Muto 
President, You Home Clinic,  
Tetsuyu Institute Medical CorporationChairman, Leading Aging Society ForumVOICEBreakthroughs created by a network  
of researchers from various ﬁeldsFusion of speed and robust capabilities  that turns ideas into reality
Team management that stimulates motivationbecause an enormous number of techniques and vast 
know-how that must be passed on by experienced work-
ers to younger workers had been accumulated. However, 
today, it is impossible for managers to understand all of 
the details of highly advanced research projects. Therefore, 
we have established a system where individual project 
teams are responsible for all aspects of their research, from deciding on the research methods to use to making 
the schedule, and each team presents its research results at a review conference held every other month. Since 
projects can be terminated if they do not produce certain 
results by the deadline set by the project team, the 
Laboratories becomes even more energized before a re-
view conference, with young researchers in their twenties 
and thirties taking the lead. The researchers are often told that responsibility for the fate of the entire Group, which 
hinges on rapid development of new drugs, is imposed on them in return for not needing to attend non-essential 
meetings and not producing all but the most necessary 
reports, and that they  therefore should have a sense of 
mission and urgency. The role of managers is not to give 
detailed instructions, but to motivate members, achieve 
consensus on targets, and have researchers realize new 
drugs that no other companies could develop. We have 
made good progress toward further cross-department 
collaboration and we plan to hold a conference for tech-
nological exchanges in 2011, gathering together re-
searchers from the entire Group. Utilizing all available 
resources, we will continue to challenge ourselves to 
develop new original drugs.
12 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 13Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifePart 2: The Fujiﬁlm Group’s Healthcare IT
IT has been increasingly utilized in healthcare fields 
in recent years. By offering IT solutions, the Fujifilm 
Group contributes not only to efficient medical 
treatment and management of hospitals, but also 
to telemedicine and regional healthcare services.Changing regional healthcare 
through the integration and 
efficient management of 
healthcare information The Fujiﬁlm Group’s Healthcare IT Part 2
Contributing to the creation of a uniﬁed medical information network
Fujifilm has been deeply involved in clinical diagnosis 
through radiography since 1936. We also currently offer 
digital radioscopic imaging systems, endoscopes, and blood diagnostic systems. The medical imaging information system, 
SYNAPSE, which enables all diagnostic images produced 
by these systems to be shared, is used as the platform 
for cooperation between medical institutions and has 
the largest domestic market share. We also offer C@Rna 
which is a network-based medical service and establishes 
a network between hospitals and clinics. By linking these 
systems and services with other medical IT systems, 
Fujifilm aims to create a clinical information system (CIS) that unifies all medical information. In order to strengthen efforts in this field, in October 2009 Fujifilm established 
the Medical Systems Research and Development Center, 
which integrated development centers for various 
equipment and systems.
 New trends in hospitals include a growing need for 
an electronic document system that provides unified IT-based management of various documents including 
paper medical records. There is also an urgent need to 
increase the versatility of such a system and make medi-
cal information more searchable and readable so that 
the network between various medical institutions can be expanded further.
 Fujifilm’s Medical Systems Business Division and Fuji 
Xerox are tackling these challenges, taking advantage of each other’s strengths. Fujifilm’s Group companies offer 
SYNAPSE (a picture archiving and communication 
system) and other unified medical information systems 
tailored to customer needs, and they have been used by 
Yahgee Co., Ltd. Fuji Xerox responds to needs of various 
healthcare providers by building a diagnostic assistance 
system centering on the concept of a Document 
Archiving and Communication System (DACS). As for the future, efforts are being made domestically to real-
ize a government plan, “My Hospital Anywhere”, in 
which, with an extended network of medical institu-tions, medical records of patients’ entire lives can be 
accessed from any facility. The Fujifilm Group will continue not only to offer 
multiple integrative solutions to respond to various 
medical needs, but also to provide support to staff 
working on the frontiers of medicine and contribute to 
medical advancements.
The name, Yahgee, comes from the word for ‘goat’ 
(‘Yagi’ in Japanese), which eats paper and can derive 
nourishment from it. Yahgee is a system that digitizes a 
variety of medical information accumulated in hospitals, 
stores it in databases, and makes it accessible for various 
medical procedures. The system has detailed functions 
that enable its users to understand the whole picture by 
placing various information on one screen, to easily uti-
lize data through search and extraction capabilities, to 
easily prepare documents with information from order 
forms and electronic medical records extracted and au-
tomatically filled, and to utilize data in documents to 
create various workflows that are not easily made with 
an electronic medical record system. Yahgee also excels 
at scanning paper documents, saving images from digi-
tal cameras, and calculating basic data statistics.
 In addition, what is advocated in Yahgee is the cre-
ation of a platform that consists of common functions drawn from various hospital systems. Complexities are 
eliminated because various procedures are gathered in one 
platform. With Yahgee, users can manage multiple systems 
in an integrated manner under an optimal environment.During the introduction of electronic medical record systems, hospitals face difficulties in shifting to a paper-
less system as they typically must deal with an enormous 
amount of paper documents, such as old paper medical 
records, consent forms, and referral letters. There are 
also many cases where network connections with infor-
mation systems running on different software applica-
tions are not smooth, resulting in a long wait while 
searching for and reading medical information. Therefore, Fuji Xerox developed the Integrated 
Medical Record Management Solution based on the con-
cept of a Document Archiving and Communication System 
(DACS) advocated by the Department of Integrated 
Medicine, Medical Informatics at Osaka University Hospital. 
The solution provides unified management of various 
medical records, ranging from paper documents to elec-
tronic data, which are converted into electronic documents 
through virtual printers or scanners. Since the files are 
saved in general formats, such as PDF, JPEG, and 
DocuWorks, they can be used in the future in many situa-
tions. The solution also prevents document falsification by 
clearly recording who created the documents with a digital 
signature and time stamp, and guarantee document au-
thenticity as specified in the guidelines issued by the 
Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare.
 A cross-organization project started the develop-
ment of this solution. With a goal to build an informa-tion environment where patients can receive the best 
healthcare anytime anywhere, the project brought 
together many members, and the solution was realized 
in cooperation with Osaka University Hospital.
Toward comprehensive information sharing 
and regional medical cooperationIntegrated Medical Record Management Solution through DACS concept
Uniﬁed medical assistance system, Yahgee
Fujifilm GroupFuji Xerox
Alongside regional central hospitals, small and medium-scale medical facilities have started 
to introduce healthcare IT at a rapid pace, as seen in the digitization of medical records and 
diagnostic images particularly. As more and more medical facilities are connected to IT 
networks, it becomes possible for all medical facilities in a region to share diagnostic infor-mation and for a highly efficient medical system to be created. The Fujifilm Group is actively 
developing solution systems to create a unified medical information network that can 
handle all types of information including images and documents, thereby increasing diag-
nostic efficiency.
Our hospital began using an ordering system in 2007 and 
SYNAPSE, Fujifilm’s medical imaging information system, in 2008. Later, we decided to manage various documents in the 
hospital with a digital system because we needed to organize 
medical information due to a lack of storage space for paper documents. Therefore, we started using a comprehensive medical imaging and document management system in March 2010. This mechanism for managing all medical infor-mation in an integrated manner was built by combining SYNAPSE (for the management of images), Yahgee (for the 
preparation and management of documents), and DACS (for 
the storage and management of original documents). In introducing the systems, we put emphasis on their 
compatibility. Yahgee and DACS are systems from the Fujifilm Group, the developer of SYNAPSE which our hospital began to use earlier. Therefore, they are tightly connected, and we can quickly retrieve information on individual patients, such as images from their examinations and doctors’ clinical find-ings. Yahgee significantly contributes to increased efficiency 
as it handles hundreds of formats used by insurance compa-
nies for diagnostic reports, allowing users to create and manage both internal and external documents which tend to be increasingly complicated. Also, DACS has enabled us to digitize various documents such as consent forms with pa-tient signatures and to store important documents for long periods of time in the form of electronic certificates with time 
stamps. Other advantages of the comprehensive system in-
clude short response times and flexibility that comes from its customization. We believe that the value of the system will be clearly 
apparent in various settings as more and more medical infor-mation is accumulated over the next 5 or 10 years.Unifying medical information by 
introducing medical imaging and 
document management systems
Mr. Tsuneo Kinukawa  
Deputy Director, Social Insurance Chukyo HospitalVOICEMedical information system
Unified medical
information systemsElectronic
documentsFujifilm
Fujifilm Medical
YahgeeIntegrated 
medical record 
management sytem
Fuji Xerox
14 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 15Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifePart 3: Energy Cost Reduction Project: for Electricity, Gas, and Fuel
Based on its forecast of expanded production and rising energy costs for the period until 
2012, the Fujifilm Group is expecting an increase in energy costs by 1.5 times (relative to the 
2009 level). The overall goal of the project for energy cost reduction, which started in July 2010, is to curb the energy cost increase to a half of that expected. Accomplishing this signifi-cant cost reduction will lead to reductions in CO
2 emissions and is an important factor in 
strongly promoting the achievement of the Group’s long-term target of a 30% reduction in CO
2 emissions throughout the life cycle of its products by 2020 (relative to the 2005 level).
It is an important continuing challenge in business 
management to reduce energy costs. Needless to 
say, a key measure is to reduce energy consump-tion through energy conservation, which directly decreases CO
2 emissions.Reducing CO 2 emissions from 
factories and offices through 
Group cooperationEnergy Cost Reduction Project: for Electricity, Gas, and Fuel Part 3
Aiming to half the projected increase in energy costs (less energy consumption per unit of output)
Fujifilm Group companies have promoted activities for 
reducing CO 2 emissions as anti-global-warming mea-
sures. The project for energy cost reduction, which started in July 2010, administers various measures for the domestic and overseas Group companies as a whole, in cooperation with the existing committee for promot-
ing anti-global-warming measures and with energy-
saving activities at different sites.
 With executives in charge of Technology Management 
Division or CSR in FUJIFILM Holdings as the project own-ers and the director of the CSR department as the project 
leader, the project engages in activities to reduce energy 
consumption and energy-related procurement costs.
 The activities for reducing energy consumption are 
divided into production-related and office-work-related activities. In the production-related activities, the opera-
tor companies—Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox—set their targets 
and work to reduce energy consumption. In the office-
work-related activities, FUJIFILM Holdings sets the tar-
gets, and accordingly Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox collaborate 
together to reduce energy consumption.
 As for the activities to reduce energy costs in pro-
curement, the procurement group of FUJIFILM Holdings leads the efforts and cooperates with the groups in 
charge of materials in the operator companies.With regard to domestic office-work-related energy-
saving measures, a joint team from Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox has reduced the lighting and heating costs at re-
search facilities and office buildings as well as the amount of fuel used for company cars.
 To reduce lighting and heating costs, energy-saving 
measures have been examined mainly for air conditioning 
and lighting (a large part of energy consumption in the office buildings). These are implemented as part of the 
environmental rules that apply to all offices in the Group. As for the air conditioning system, it has been con-
firmed that the temperature does not rapidly fall with the 
system’s heaters turned off in the winter in the Roppongi 
headquarters building, which has a high-performance insu-lation system. A large amount of energy is therefore saved 
by turning off the air conditioners outside of business hours, and the same measure is horizontally executed in other 
buildings with a high-performance insulation system. Lighting methods were also reexamined and a task-
ambient lighting system with LED task lights was adopted. 
Starting with the Roppongi headquarters building, the 
system was installed in the office buildings, which led to 
a more than 10% reduction in electricity use.
 With regard to company cars, a program for safe, 
environmentally friendly driving is promoted to improve fuel efficiency and reduce the number of cars. The pro-
gram is being implemented in cooperation with a cross-
company team of vehicle managers from different Group 
companies, and efforts are being made to reduce the 
amount of fuel used in the entire Group.Our six main domestic factories are responsible for close to 60% of the CO
2 emissions of the entire Group and 
since the early days have promoted activities for energy conservation with the goals to reduce the following by 
2012 (relative to the 1990 level):
• 
energy consumption per unit of output by 30% and
• CO 2 emissions per unit of output by 40%.
 Each factory has accumulated energy-saving tech-
nologies over a long period of time, and we aim to mo-bilize these technologies and achieve these goals.
 At the new production line for a material used in 
flat panel displays which was constructed at the Ashigara site of the Kanagawa factory in April 2011, energy consumption per unit of area is halved due to energy-
saving measures such as an increase in the width of the film produced, increased speed of the production line, 
and rigorous recycling of the steam generated in the 
production process.
 We aim to reduce our energy consumption further 
by “horizontally” executing similar energy-saving mea-sures at the production line for a material used in flat 
panel displays that is planned to start operating in 
December 2012, and at Production Line 8, Factory 4 of 
Fujifilm Kyushu.
 Another energy-saving measure is cogeneration at 
the electricity generating stations of our six main domestic factories. A cogeneration system is a system supplying 
both electricity and heat, in which heat resulting from 
electricity generation is captured in the form of steam or 
hot water. The system has been in operation since the 
1960s. Starting in 2003, we have made a gradual shift in 
the fuel used in the system from heavy fuel oil to natural 
gas, thereby also reducing CO
2 emissions.Taking advantage of the energy-saving  
technologies unique to Fujiﬁlm“Horizontal” execution of effective  energy-saving measures
System in place for promoting the energy cost reduction projectOffice-work-related activities Fujiﬁlm’s domestic production-related activities
As global warming steadily continues, time is limited for 
solving the problem. Therefore, the key to solving it hinges on the speed at which we can change society. The first capability required of a leading company is the ability to send clear, socially influential messages and to show its com-mitment to them. The second capability required is the ability to execute 
and realize such commitment through its operational activi-ties. Mobilizing all of its Group companies, the Fujifilm Group has already engaged in various activities and has 
produced results. With environmental issues positioned 
close to the core of business activities, a new model of the world—one in which the environment, the economy, and society are tightly connected—can be built. The Fujifilm Group is an industry leader that competes with other inter-national companies on the world stage, and people will pay attention to whether it can maintain its commitment to 
contributing to the world.
The role of a leading company 
in future society
Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi 
Special Advisor
United Nations Environment Program  Finance Initiative in the Asia Pacific RegionVOICEMasahiro Fukuoka
Senior Operations ManagerCSR Group, Corporate General Administration DivisionFUJIFILM HoldingsGeneral ManagerEcology and Quality Management DivisionFUJIFILM CorporationFUJIFILM HoldingsReduction in energy consumption
Reduction in energy costs in pr ocurementProduction-r elated
Office-work-
relatedFujifilm
 (Toyama Chemical)
Fuji XeroxDomestic
• Reduction in energy consumption in  
various processes
• Improvement in energy supply conditions
Overseas
• Reduction in energy consumption in  
overseas production
Domestic and overseas
• Reduction in energy consumption in  
various processes
• Reduction in energy consumption in  
office work, company car usage , etc.Executing effective measures “horizontally” 
using all the resources available in domestic and overseas organizations
16 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 17Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifePart 4: Activities That Create a Sense of Unity
Activities That Create a Sense of Unity Part 4
Awareness of sustainability that spreads from the workplace to families
The Fujifilm Group has been operating an eco-driving 
program since 2008. In 2009, Fuji Xerox Osaka received 
the President’s Award from the Environmental Restoration 
and Conservation Agency for its Eco-Driving Contest. The 
company developed by itself an environment in which its 
employees can enjoy eco-driving, as seen in a contest 
held within the company. As a result, the company suc-
ceeded in reducing, in 1 year, CO 2 emissions by around 
180 tons, fuel costs by 20%, overall costs by approxi-
mately 11 million yen, and the number of accidents for 
which employees are responsible by a half. This example 
shows that eco-driving has positive effects on the envi-
ronment, business management, and safety.
 To promote such a high-quality program for eco-
driving nationwide, in August 2010 the Fujifilm Group started a new program for safety and eco-driving, which 
covers approximately 11,000 cars owned by employees and used for their commute, and incorporates efforts to eradicate traffic accidents.
 As the new program started, the Fujifilm Group 
was selected by the Environmental Restoration and Conservation Agency as a model company for its investi-
gative project on methods to reduce air pollution through 
the spread of eco-driving among general drivers. Because 
of this, the web service for supporting eco-driving, ReCoo, 
that had been developed as part of an energy conserva-
tion project under the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and 
Industry was customized for use by the Fujifilm Group. 
ReCoo is a service which shows a graph of fuel effi-
ciency to the users once they enter their fueling data 
and driving distance 
from a cellular phone 
or a computer. This 
enables them to see at 
a glance the effect of 
eco-driving, which in-
cludes easy starting 
and early releasing of 
the gas pedal.one state to another. The photo contest of-fered an opportunity 
for the photographers to observe nature and 
living things, which must be protected for the 
next generation, through direct contact with them, and to record precious moments experienced in nature and 
share them with others. It also provided a chance for visitors to understand the thoughts of the photographers 
when viewing their works. The purpose of the photo contest was to encourage employees and their families 
to think about biodiversity conservation through these opportunities and make their experience a starting point 
for further action. Contest participants commented that the contest 
provided opportunities to talk about living things and 
nature with family members, and that sharing the beau-
tiful landscapes captured in the photographs with many other people and the future generations would lead to 
protection of this wonderful nature. The Fujifilm Group will continue to actively engage 
in environmental protection activities including activities 
for biodiversity conservation, contribute to the develop-
ment of photographic culture, and share the attractive 
and wonderful world of photography.In 2010, the Fujifilm Group held a life and nature photo 
contest as an awareness program about biodiversity 
conservation, in which all its employees and their family 
members could participate. A total of 1,093 photos 
were submitted and were judged by Mr.Shin Yoshino, a 
renowned nature photographer in Japan, and President 
Komori. The award ceremony was held in December 
2010. All photographs were exhibited in the mini gallery 
and foyer of the Fujifilm Square at our headquarters in 
“Tokyo Midtown”, Roppongi, which offered an oppor-
tunity for the general public as well as employees to 
think about biodiversity.
 The photograph is a medium that is appropriate for 
capturing the moment of living things changing from  In addition, with cooperation from employees of 
Fuji Xerox Osaka and ASUA Corporation, the developer 
of ReCoo, seminars on eco-driving were held at various locations. The employees who participated in these 
seminars commented that they became more motivated to improve their driving techniques because such an 
improvement was clearly shown to reduce fuel costs and CO
2 emissions, and that they became conscious of 
eco-driving not only while they were working, but also 
when they went out with their family. We will continue to set concrete targets, assess the 
effects, improve the vehicle management system, and 
create an environment in which employees can maintain 
and enhance their motivation.
Thinking about biodiversity with family  
members through photography
Program for safe eco-drivingLife and nature photo contest
In order to truly realize sustainable development, it is important to train people so that they 
not only can think by themselves about what they should do for the environment, but also can take action and change the behavior of others around them. The Fujifilm Group has en-
gaged in various activities for environmental protection from the standpoint of work and 
lifestyle, and environmentally conscious lifestyles are spreading from the workplace into 
families. The environmental activities of the Fujifilm Group are characterized by encouraging 
employees to participate in specific actions and events and offering opportunities to think on one’s own, in addition to calling for CO
2 emission reductions and biodiversity conservation. 
We believe that encouraging ways of life that care about the planet leads to employees 
having vibrant lives and eventually to improved enhancing quality of life throughout society.
In recent years, a declining birthrate combined with an aging 
population has become a social issue in Japan. How many children are there to take care of their elderly parents? How will their family’s traditions as well as discussions about their 
various experiences continue? I believe that Japan is at a criti-
cal moment when families are in jeopardy. The cornerstone strength of the group one belongs is 
focused on the individuals families, or in other words, pro-tecting each families happiness to facilitate a healthy nation. The reason for this is because the family is the smallest unit of the group and the happiness of the family relates to the ro-bust activities of the group. The wisdom and knowledge that has been cultivated through experiences can be discussed, considered and the traditions continued to create dreams for 
tomorrow because of this type of environment.
 The outreach efforts of the Fujifilm Group are excellent at 
turning the focus of their efforts to family, from the individual to their families, society and its Group Companies by consid-ering each individual to provide the sense of belonging illus-trated in the title. As Japan has moved from a period of growth to a period of maturity, the Fujifilm Group has recog-
nized the necessity for higher quality rather than quantity. I 
would like to see Japan “rejuvenated” through these efforts considering “family happiness” as the quality of life, which cannot be assigned a monetary value, by directing their actions even more externally, rather than stopping within their own Group Companies.
Continue outreach efforts to 
protect the global environment
Mr. Jun Miyauchi 
Chairman
Public Interest Incorporated Foundation Associates of the EarthVOICE
Participants eagerly learning about eco-driving at the seminars
Grand prix winner: “Swans in love”
Eco-Products 2010 in the Fuji Xerox 
exhibition areaExhibition in the mini gallery in Fujifilm Square (first floor of Tokyo Midtown in Roppongi where the Fujifilm Holdings Headquarters are located)
To protect the global environment, each of us takes 
action and we grow them into larger movements. 
The sense of solidarity that emerges from such activities is a necessary factor for the sustainable development of society.Coexisting with  
the global environment
Activities involving work  
and lifestyle
Eco-driving for commuting
Raising awareness through visualizing  fuel economy
18 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 19Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifeSince 2006, the design divisions of Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox 
have cooperatively held the Fujifilm-Fuji Xerox Joint 
Research Seminar on Design for current students of art-
oriented universities and graduate schools. At the re-search seminar, would-be designers (students) and 
designers (trainers) from both companies hold a 6-day 
camp and produce works on a given theme, thinking together about, among other things, the definition of 
design, important factors in producing good designs, 
and necessary processes. The participants greatly appre-ciated the research seminar as they could hear directly 
from designers about the mindset of professional de-
signers, the design development processes undertaken at the companies, and the difficulties faced and sense of 
achievement felt by the companies’ in-house designers—all topics which cannot be learned in school.
 As administrative members and trainers from both 
divisions cooperatively plan, prepare, and administer Part 5: Human Resources Development and Its Exchange within Fujiﬁlm Group
Human Resources Development and Its Exchange within Fujiﬁlm Group Part 5
Training and communication programs for various organizational levels and departments
In 2010, the camp for reformist leaders (part , 175 partici-
pants) was held mainly for General Manager from Fujifilm 
and Fuji Xerox. It was a place for the participants to have 
in-depth discussions on approaches to be taken in tackling 
importance common issues for the Fujifilm Group and on 
obstacles to realizing reforms. It also allowed participants 
to contemplate, based on the discussions, reform issues 
that each participant should work to resolve. A total of 
eight reporting sessions were held for top management.
 In addition, the seminar on synergy between Fujifilm 
and Fuji Xerox, which was designed for mid-level managers (leaders) and had been held throughout 2009, 
was expanded. Also, a new seminar was held 6 times, 
which was intended to give 144 young leaders around 
the age of 30 from both companies an opportunity to 
create synergy for the Fujifilm Group and to improve 
their mindset.
 As a result of these activities, general managers, 
mid-level managers (leaders), and young leaders from both companies deepened their understanding of the 
counterpart’s business. It is expected that opportuni-
ties for creating new business value and advancing 
technologies will arise through increased interactions 
between personnel.The camp for reformist leaders (part ) and 
the seminar on synergy (for young employees)Extended personnel training and communication programsExhibition area of Fuji Xerox at 
Knowledge Festa 2010
Research seminar on designPoster display area at the symposium on production technology
A variety of measures were taken in FY2010 to create synergy between Fujifilm(FF) and 
Fuji Xerox(FX). Understanding the businesses of both FF and FX activities such as a camp 
for reformist leaders and a seminar on synergy were held. Furthermore, activities for per-sonnel training and communication were held at various organizational levels and depart-ments that included an event for technical exchange and a research seminar on design.TOPICS
General Managers
Personnel exchange
Mutual assignment
General employeesMid-level managersGeneral Managers
General employeesMid-level managersFujifilm Fuji XeroxTo create opportunities for vitalizing the Group and 
generating new ideas, Fujifilm regularly holds an 
event for technical exchange in which various em-ployees participate.
 At the symposium on production technology held in 
November 2010, a total of 1,000 people came together 
from various divisions of Fujifilm and Group companies of Fuji Xerox. There were poster and technical presen-
tations on a basic theme so that all participants and not 
just experts could understand. The participants could experience the technologies through the devices dis-
played. This event created opportunities not only to 
explain the various technologies comprehensively, but also to convey the presenters’ concepts behind them.
 In December, Knowledge Festa 2010 was held and 
around 1,200 employees participated. The festival was held for the fifth time, and the IH fusing technology—
Fuji Xerox’s original technology—and other technolo-gies were explained in poster presentations prepared 
by employees about their research and development 
work. Participants commented that they gained many ideas through researcher-level discussions. The festival 
provided a good opportunity for generating synergy.Symposium on production technology and Knowledge Festa 2010
the research seminar, they have opportunities to mutu-
ally understand and share their organizational manage-
ment guidelines, design guidelines, and design 
processes. This produces a synergy effect and leads to the creation of other joint project teams.
 Also, newly employed designers who have partici-
pated in the joint research seminar understand the 
operations and members of both divisions. In this way, 
the research seminar contributes to generating a strong 
sense of cooperation among the new designers and 
broadens their perspective.Joint research seminar on design
Generally speaking, organization’s activity toward its objec-
tives forms rationality, which will creates unique culture, custom, rule and values of its own. There are cases where this rigidifies—in an unnoticeable way—the process of gen-
erating new ideas, which leads to unfavorable conditions for creating new value. It is not rare, in large companies espe-
cially, that members become parts, and that such compa-
nies become introversive and cannot provide value to 
society. In other words, it becomes difficult for them to become a social asset. Against this backdrop, it seems that the Fujifilm Group 
has a unique business and culture, and is actively trying to create a new culture and new value with its large, vibrant 
Group companies inspiring one another at both the em-
ployee and organizational level. It is expected that, besides its activities at these levels, the Group will strive to resolve social issues with its new operations and thus produce results that realize its corporate principle, namely, enhancing people’s quality of life.
Continuing to be a socially 
valuable company
Mr. Toshiya Banno 
Director of Strategy
Booz & Company Inc.VOICE
Various efforts centering on reforming corporate 
awareness and culture, and increasing personnel 
exchanges are being made by the Fujifilm Group to realize its management plan.Training people to  
strengthen the overall ability  
of the Group
20 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 21Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifePart 5: Human Resources Development and Its Exchange within Fujiﬁlm Group
The Personnel Division of FUJIFILM Holdings held a 
round table discussion on human resources ex-
change on June 29, 2011. The Fujifilm Group pro-
motes active personnel exchanges in order to take 
advantage of the operational strengths of Fujifilm 
(FF) and Fuji Xerox (FX) and to improve the manage-
ment foundation of the group. The discussants 
were employees who had moved or were tempo-
rarily assigned to positions in a different Group 
company to help realize these goals. From FF to FX, 
and also from FX to FF, they candidly exchanged 
opinions on their impressions of FF and FX, the possi -
bilities for greater synergy, and recommendations for expanding the personnel exchange programs.Participants in the round table discussion on human resources exchangeNew corporate culture emerging  
from human resources exchangeRound table discussion on human resources exchange
Yoshimura (FX): Many technological divisions at FF have a 
top-down organization. A boss comes in and says, “Do this by 
this deadline.” But FX has a bottom-up system: topics chosen 
by team members are presented to a leader, or things start at 
the point of actual operation and move spirally upward. Both 
have their own advantages though.Hattori (FF): In terms of sales, I used to have the impression 
that FF was more oriented toward a top-down organization 
than FX. But in the area of overseas 
marketing, I see that FF actually uses 
a bottom-up system for negotiations 
with local distributors, so it responds 
to situations flexibly.
Iwase (FX): In developing new tech-nologies at FX, it is possible to move 
things in a bottom-up fashion with a 
lot of freedom. If we can find a way, then we will propose a product 
or technology with practical use.
Yoshimura (FX): At FF, the sat-isfaction I feel when I achieve a 
goal is tremendous. It would be 
perfect if we can create a system 
that is unique to the Fujifilm 
Group that incorporates the ad-vantages of both the top-down 
system and bottom-up systems.
Tashiro (FX): We notice these differences in culture because of increased exchanges between the companies. We have all 
come to recognize that technical exchanges are beneficial to 
both companies. I feel that a new corporate culture is emerging 
for the Fujifilm Group.
Inoue (FF): I am currently in charge of overseas marketing of 
medical equipment and film. Activities like medium-term management planning, supply and demand adjustments, 
decisions on export prices, and product planning, which are handled by multiple departments at FX, are assigned to those in charge of the market in each country at FF. I work hard, think-
ing that I can personally grow in this system. But I feel huge pressure, knowing that I am responsible for all these tasks.
Ishihara (FF): It seems that FX tends to conduct its business in teams, whereas FF tends to assign work to individuals.
Okamoto (FF): At FX, operations are mapped, appropriate 
mechanisms are in place for them, and the company’s mission is clearly defined. In contrast, there is a wide range of issues that FF 
is dealing with. This is why it’s necessary to take advantage of 
individuals’ experiences. Tackling challenges at FF, I have felt great satisfaction as I have become able to do more things.
Iwase (FX): To me, FX and FF are the same in that employees 
become able to work deeply and broadly, rather than deeply 
and narrowly, by experiencing the frontiers in their specialized 
field and by engaging in their work with a wide perspective in a highly mapped out organization. For example, engineers can 
be knowledgeable in finance as well as in engineering and can 
think of ways to build a low-cost, efficient production line from different perspectives. I think this is very important.
Tashiro (FX): I am currently in a position at FX to direct my 
subordinates. I want them to become widely skilled, manager-
like workers, so I assign two or three tasks to one person and 
ask him or her to work on them simultaneously, which is what I experienced at FF. With a will to pursue the advantages of 
specialization and efficiency, workers have become aware of 
the importance of doing things deeply and broadly, which has led to the effective development of human resources.
Ishihara (FF): I think the fact that each person moves to the 
other company with a mission or purpose is increasing the synergy effect. I moved with the goal of significantly growing 
the sales of medical-equipment-related services at FF.
Inoue (FF): The purpose of my 
move is to experience, in a con-crete way, the overseas business 
of FF, whose operations extend to the entire world, and to turn the 
experiences into my strengths. Also, I intend to utilize the solu-tion sales experiences I gained at 
FX in overseas operations at FF.Okamoto (FF): What I would like to promote at the Overseas Business Strategy Office at FF is systematization, which is one of 
FX’s strengths. I want to further develop operational processes for launching a local corporation and for other actions, and to have the resulting processes widely adopted. There are many opportu-
nities to work overseas because FF is trying to increase the number 
of local bases in emerging countries. To have young workers ac-cumulate their overseas experiences, there should be more open-
application opportunities and more personnel exchanges.
Tashiro (FX): What is emphasized in manufacturing is produc-
ing high-quality products fast and at low cost. The technologies 
required for this create a foundation that should be shared be-tween FF and FX. A question for the future is how each other’s 
technologies can be used efficiently as a foundation.Iwase (FX): At FX, I can propose many ideas for producing products at low costs which are based on the experiences I gained at FF. Now 
that the organization has grown large, know-how is scattered 
around and is not rooted in the organization. It’s such a waste.Hattori (FF): In the field of marketing, I feel that we currently need 
to incorporate the strengths of FX into operations at FF. I think that 
know-how and base technology can be further developed by continuing the personnel exchanges over a long period of time. 
This will result in a strong synergy effect.
Hidenori Ishihara  
Service Business Planning Group  
Medical System Business Div.  
Healthcare Business Headquarters  
FUJIFILM Corporation
Daisuke Inoue  
International Marketing Group  
Medical Systems Business Div.  
FUJIFILM Corporation
Kazuhito Iwase  
Manager  
Marking unit manufacturing engineering  
Production Technology  
Fuji Xerox Co.,Ltd.
Rina Okamoto  
Overseas Business Strategy Office  
Corporate Planning Div.  
FUJIFILM CorporationAkira Tashiro  
Manager  
Marking unit manufacturing engineering  
Production Technology  
Fuji Xerox Co.,Ltd.
Tomoki Hattori  
Digital Printing Business Group  
Graphic Systems Business Div.  
FUJIFILM Corporation
Kosaku Yoshimura  
Marking & Material Technology Group  
Marking & Material Research and 
Technology Dept.  
Fuji Xerox Co.,Ltd.
The round table discussion on human resources exchange 
has been held since 2008. As I heard the comments of this year’s discussants, I realized, once again, that the activities for personnel development aimed at strengthening the 
overall capability of the Group have indeed taken root. 
FUJIFILM Holdings has conducted the exhange of human resources, the camp for reformist leaders, and the seminar on synergy as priority human resource measures mainly in-tended to grow the operations of Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox. We will continue to provide and promote various effective mechanisms and opportunities to generate a new corporate 
culture and realize synergy for creating new business.
Increased and accelerated 
human resource exchanges
Kouichi Suematsu 
Corporate Vice President
General Manager of the Corporate Personnel DivisionFUJIFILM Holdings
Tomoki Hattori
Left: Daisuke Inoue    Right: Hidenori Ishihara
Left: Kosaku Yoshimura    Right: Akira Tashiro
Rina Okamoto
Kazuhito Iwase
22 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 23Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life
A new corporate culture arising from the 
fusion of the two companies’ cultures
Possibilities beyond synergy:  
utilizing each other’s strengthsFurther sharing of know-how and  
base technology
Approaches to work: teams vs. individuals24 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 25
Report
Recovery Efforts by 
the Fujifilm Group  
after the Great East 
Japan Earthquake
Effects of the Earthquake Disaster on Production Sites 
and Offices, and Their Recovery Efforts ………… 26
Support Activities by the Fujifilm Group …… 27
Response to Requests from Society ………… 29Making use of the knowledge and know-how 
that the Fujifilm Group has cultivated through our 
business, we are continuing to provide various 
kinds of activities to support the recovery and re-
construction of areas stricken by the Great East 
Japan Earthquake.Consolidated Subsidiaries of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
The number of consolidated subsidiaries of FUJIFILM Holdings is 239 as of March 31, 2011.
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.htmlFUJIFILM Corporation Group Companies
Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd.Fuji Xerox Group Companies
FUJIFILM Business Expert CorporationFUJIFILM Corporation and its group companies de-
velop, produce and market products in the Imaging 
Solutions business (color films, digital cameras, 
photofinishing equipment and color paper, chemi-cals and services for photofinishing) and Information 
Solutions business (equipment and materials for 
medical diagnostics and life science, equipment and 
materials for graphic arts, flat panel display materi-
als, recording media, optical devices, electronic 
materials and inkjet materials).
Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd. is creating pharmaceuticals 
by concentrating its R&D in three areas: “anti-infective 
area”, “central nervous system and cardiology area”, 
and “anti-inflammatory area”. Toyama Chemical 
owns drugs such as “Synthetic penicillin agent” or 
“antibacterial agent”, as well as numerous drugs in 
the development pipeline such as “anti-influenza 
agent” and “treatment of alzheimer’s disease”.Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. and its group companies develop, 
produce and market products in the Document 
Solutions business (office copy machines/multifunc-
tion devices, printers, production systems and services, paper, consumables and office services).
A shared services company of Fujifilm Group in 
Japan, which integrates the administrative, 
human resource, insurance agency, indirect ma-
terial purchasing and travel agency functions for 
the Group companies.
Immediately after the earthquake we set up the Disaster 
Response Headquarters and, in cooperation with opera-
tional sites and Group companies, started confirming the safety of the employees of the entire Group and collect-
ing information on the damage suffered by the Group’s 
companies, factories, customers, and suppliers.
 Fortunately, the Group’s employees did not suffer 
injury. Although buildings and equipment were dam-aged at some operational sites, through the efforts of 
local employees and recovery activities of the entire 
Group, we were able to keep the impact of the earth-
quake on production activities to a minimum.
 We also provided support to employees and their fami-
lies, and made sure we continued receiving raw materials and parts and maintained working distribution systems.
Although rolling blackouts were implemented in some 
parts of the service area of Tokyo Electric Power 
FinePix X100 is a high-end compact digital camera for 
professional photographers and photo enthusiasts which 
is designed to invoke the joy of taking pictures.
 The digital camera has been well received by many cus-
tomers. It features not only the world’s first hybrid viewfinder 
(which captured attention when its development was first 
announced in September 2010), but also breathtakingly high image quality that surpasses that produced by single-
lens reflex cameras, and its sophisticated design which recre-
ates the stylistic beauty of a film camera.
 The camera is produced at FUJIFILM Digital Techno 
located in Yamato-cho, Kurokawa-gun, Miyagi Prefecture. 
The production line for the camera was stopped on March 
11 due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, just 6 days 
after the product launch. Driven by a desire to do everything they could to de-
liver the products as early as possible to customers who Company, we continued production through produc-
tion rearrangement and using generators at the Fujifilm 
Kanagawa Factory and Fujinomiya Factory which are located in the service area. As for the procurement of 
raw materials and parts, some operational sites did not 
receive a sufficient supply of parts and therefore tempo-
rarily stopped production, but they were able to resume 
production in early April. We will reexamine our response 
to risks associated with the procurement of parts and 
put appropriate measures in place.
 As to the FUJIFILM Finechemicals Hirono Factory, 
which was in the recommended evacuation area around the Fukushima Daini Nuclear Power Plant, the workers 
were allowed to enter the factory after the status of the 
area had been changed to “area designated for emer-
gency evacuation preparation” on April 22, and they 
have engaged in recovery activities since April 27.
were waiting to purchase them, the employees gathered 
at the factory, voluntarily contacting each other even 
when utility services has not yet been recovered in their 
homes. They worked tirelessly to restart the production line, removing debris, picking up usable parts, and mov-
ing machines and equipment by hand. As a result, pro-
duction was resumed only 10 days after the earthquake.Restarting the Production Line for the FinePix X100 Digital CameraEffects of the Earthquake Disaster on Production 
Sites and Offices, and Their Recovery EffortsSupport Activities by the Fujifilm Group
Immediately after the earthquake, the entire Fujifilm Group responded to the earthquake disaster by 
setting up the Disaster Response Headquarters under the Total Risk Management Committee chaired by the President. Group companies’ recovery efforts and support activities for disaster-stricken areas are 
reported in the following.Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group  
after the Great East Japan EarthquakeReport
As the Fujifilm Group, FUJIFILM Corporation and Fuji 
Xerox jointly provided 300 million yen immediately after 
the earthquake to support the disaster-stricken areas. In 
addition, we provided 530 million yen’s worth of sup-
port products including 10 ultrasonic medical diagnostic 
imaging systems (FAZONE M), 1 million anti-dust/virus 
masks (“AllerCatcher”), and antibacterial agents for 
adults and children. Domestic group companies provided customers 
with necessities such as water, rice, other foodstuffs, 
and blankets, as well as special repair services. 
We received not only messages expressing support 
from overseas companies and customers, but also 
financial contributions from overseas companies 
and their employees.
Photo Rescue Project
Fujifilm is supporting efforts to restore people’s damaged 
photos through its Photo Rescue Project, which aims to restore photos and photo albums that have been dam-aged by water and mud from the tsunami, helping to protect people’s precious memories. The project was launched in answer to an inquiry about the role of Fujifilm, a company that cherishes photographic culture.
 The cross-department project started on March 24 with 
the publication of a photo restoration method on the 
company’s website, and a group of quality control special-ists at the Kanagawa Factory began investigating methods to restore damaged photos. When project members visited a disaster-stricken area in Miyagi Prefecture in early April, a victim of the disaster told them, “Houses can be washed away; memories cannot. But even memories fade with time. Pictures give us the strength to stand up again.” These words brought home the importance of restoring photos, and the project picked up steam. Since the earthquake, Fujifilm 
has received a number of inqui-ries from local governments in the disaster areas, volunteer groups, and individuals about the best way to clean up photos. Thirty employees participating in the project took turns and made a total of 80 trips to disaster areas to instruct people in cleaning up damaged photos. At 
the same time, we prepared a photo clean-up kit consisting of 
a well-balanced set of tools that are effective for cleaning photos. Kits were sent to more than 40 disaster areas. While we are supporting 
the photo clean-up activities in the disaster areas, other volun-teer groups have also started trying to do photo clean-up work outside the disaster areas because little progress has been made in some areas due to a lack of manpower. The Photo Rescue Project has now expanded the range of its activities by, for example, providing know-how or photo clean-up kits to these volunteer groups. We also held a photo clean-up volunteer project at the 
Kanagawa Factory Ashigara Site for about one month from June 25 in which employees of the Fujifilm Group and their families, as well as former employees, participated. A total of 1,500 people took part in cleaning up more than 170,000 photos from areas with a number of damaged photos, and returned the cleaned photos to them. The project has become increasingly active to save as 
many photos as possible, as the damage deteriorates them day by day.
Photo clean-up volunteer project 
held at the Fujifilm Kanagawa Factory Ashigara Site
FUJIFILM Corporation
Investigating a restoration method by soaking photos in muddy water
Activities in Minami-Sanriku-
cho in the disaster area
Giving instructions on cleaning 
photos in Yokkaichi-shi
26 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Report: Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group after the Great East Japan Earthquake
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 27Report: Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group after the Great East Japan EarthquakePortable ultrasonic diagnostic imaging system FAZONE  
M/Brain at a clinic in a disaster-stricken area
Screenshot of the system for measuring and  monitoring electricity consumptionActivities to Support Clinics
The Fujifilm Medical Systems Business Division collaborated with 
FUJIFILM Medical, a group company, and supported medical activities in disaster-stricken areas by lending vehicles equipped with an X-ray 
diagnostic imaging system, biochemical testing equipment that makes 
blood testing simple, and the compact, portable ultrasonic diagnostic 
system FAZONE. FUJIFILM Medical also secured the supply of consumables such as 
medical X-ray film and recovered various systems at medical facilities immediately after the earthquake.Fujiﬁlm Medical Systems Business Division, 
FUJIFILM Medical
Employees from the Tohoku Satellite and necessities offered 
in supportVisiting Customers to Offer Necessities
Immediately after the earthquake, employees from the Consumer 
Sales Division, Tohoku Satellite surveyed damage suffered by custom-ers such as photo studios and visited them to offer necessities includ-ing water and canned food. We have continued to build a cooperative relationship with them by providing goods to support their recovery and by asking them to become agents in our effort to restore general customers’ damaged photos.Fujiﬁlm Consumer Sales Division
Responding Promptly to Eliminate Scarcity in the 
Disaster-Stricken Areas
Immediately after the earthquake, recognizing that the distribution of 
goods would be key to recovery, FUJIFILM Logistics promptly prepared a system for sorting and transporting goods, collaborating with Group companies and subcontractors. As well as sending supporting goods, parts for equipment repair, and consumables to the disaster areas, we cooperated with FUJIFILM RI Pharma and put rigorous measures in place to prevent products from being contaminated with radioactivity.FUJIFILM Logistics
Providing Pharmaceutical Products to the Japan 
Medical Association
To contribute to medical support for disaster victims, we provided anti-
bacterial agents for adults and children to the Japan Medical Association and regional medical associations. We were able to deliver the products quickly by relevant departments collaborating and promptly arranging for shipping and transportation.Toyama Chemical
Employees inspecting for radioactivity contamination
Antibacterial agents for adults and childrenSupporting Disaster Recovery  
in Cooperation with NGOs
Fuji Xerox is actively supporting the recovery and recon-
struction efforts taking place in the disaster areas follow-ing the Great East Japan Earthquake, working together 
with NGOs that promote such activities with various expe-
rience and professional knowledge.
 Swift recovery and reconstruction in these areas 
requires support activities that are tailored to local 
conditions and are concretely effective. Recognizing 
the importance of communicating closely with the disaster areas, understanding the situation there, 
organizing information on things needed, and prioritiz-
ing actions to be taken, we are supporting afflicted 
people in cooperation with an NPO, Japan Platform. We provide, free of charge, multifunction devices, 
production printers, consumables like toners and paper, and maintenance services to meet the needs for mass printing of various documents such as evacuation site operation manuals, information fliers distributed in temporary housing facilities, and printed materials for sharing information among community members. We are also collaborating with another NPO, Civic 
Force, to send employees who volunteer to help drive re-covery and restoration. This collaboration enables us to provide physical support that meets local needs, which makes appropriate contributions. The employees who volunteer can use the company’s social service leave pro-gram and receive the financial support necessary for their activities. In July, 221 newly-hired employees for 2011 participated in a volunteer activity to support the recon-struction of Kesennuma-shi in Miyagi Prefecture.Fuji Xerox
Response to Requests from Society
Following the scheme for jointly limiting electricity use, 
which was introduced by the Ministry of Economy, Trade 
and Industry as an energy conservation measure for the 
summer period, 15 of the Fujifilm production facilities 
and other sites that consumed large amounts of electric-
ity and were located in the service area of the Tokyo 
Electric Power Company were divided into groups, and 
efforts were made to reduce peak electricity demand. For example, the amount of electricity purchased from 
the power company was reduced by raising the utiliza-tion rate of the natural gas cogeneration system that 
had already been installed at the Kanagawa Factory 
Ashigara and Odawara Sites and the Fujinomiya Factory. 
Also, electricity consumption of the entire Group was leveled by utilizing the large-capacity sodium-sulfur bat-
teries installed at the Advanced Research Laboratories 
and by releasing electricity stored during the nighttime 
according to plan.
 In order to have real-time information on electricity 
consumption and use it for timely energy-saving actions, a system for measuring and monitoring electricity con-
sumption was installed at 11 sites which accounted for 
95% of the Group’s electricity consumption. Various 
other energy-saving measures were taken such as turn-
ing off outdoor advertisement signs in the service area Group Measures for Handling Demand and Supply of Electricity in the Summer
of the power company, suspending the use of lighting and air conditioning systems at offices, production facili-
ties, and research and development centers, and install-
ing LED lighting stands. In addition, the theme of ICE 
Challenge, an anti-global-warming activity involving all 
employees of the Fujifilm Group and their families, was 
set as energy conservation and all made efforts to save 
energy. We also encouraged others to use less electricity through television commercials and by making energy-
saving tools publicly available on our website.
28 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Report: Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group after the Great East Japan Earthquake
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 29Report: Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group after the Great East Japan EarthquakeLecture for residents of Hirono-machi held at Hirono-machi Health Center  
(Hirono-machi, Futaba-gun, Fukushima Prefecture)
Sugio Kawauchi  (left)
Radiation Protection Supervisor
Environment Management Group LeaderManagement Dept. Chiba PlantFUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd.Fumio Okazaki  (center)
Corporate Vice President General ManagerChiba PlantFUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd.Noboru Higuchi  (right)
Director, Corporate Vice PresidentGeneral ManagerProduction Engineering & Development Dept.FUJIFILM Fine Chemical Co., Ltd.Using our abundant knowledge on 
radioactivity for support activities
Since its establishment in 1968, FUJIFILM RI Pharma has 
engaged in the research and development, production, 
and sale of radiopharmaceuticals that are useful for diag-nosing various diseases, determining treatment plans, 
and judging prognosis. With regard to the accident at the 
Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake, we have conducted tests 
for radioactivity contamination, clean-ups of radioactive 
substances, and seminars on radioactivity, responding 
swiftly to demands from Group companies and local 
governments. Going beyond what is required of a com-pany, we are engaged in support activities tightly embed-
ded in local communities.
 In addition, responding to a request from the Ministry 
of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, employees from the Chiba Office analyzed data on radio-
activity and sampled soil in Fukushima Prefecture.FUJIFILM RI Pharma
30 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Report: Recovery Efforts by the Fujifilm Group after the Great East Japan Earthquake
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 31
Achievements in CSR 
Priority Areas
The Fujifilm Group’s Medium-Term CSR Plan … 32
Climate Change Measures ………………… 34
Promotion of Design for Environment (DfE) … 36
Biodiversity Conservation …………………… 38
Management of Chemical Substances …… 40
Social Contribution Activities ……………… 42
Management System ………………………… 46
CSR Activities Overseas ……………………… 50In this section, we introduce highlights of the CSR 
activities in 2010 that the Fujifilm Group has 
strived at in order to help achieve our manage-ment targets. We also summarize the CSR activi-
ties of overseas Group companies.Responding to Radioactivity Issues
Testing and Clean-up Together with  
an Entire Town
From the end of April through early June in 2011, em-
ployees from the Chiba Office went every week to the FUJIFILM Finechemicals Hirono Factory located in Hirono-
machi, Futaba-gun, Fukushima Prefecture and cleaned up 
the factory until zero radioactivity contamination was confirmed. At the same time, together with the Ministry 
of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Education, 
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, and the town Hirono-machi, they collected data on contamination in 
the town and held information sessions on radioactivity. “Since the accident, we have been flooded by a variety 
of information on radioactivity, but it is most important to 
act with correct knowledge. Also, to remove radioactivity 
which cannot be perceived by our five senses, it is essential 
to act based on not only knowledge, but also actual mea-surements taken at the sites and judgment about the mea-
surement environment,” says Fumio Okazaki, Corporate 
Vice President and General Manager of Chiba Plant. In Hirono-machi, we have analyzed data on residual radioactive 
substances in soil, water, weeds, vegetables, and tea leaves. 
Also, we discussed clean-up methods and measurement re-sults at 4 seminars held in the town, as well as provided 
information on radioactive substances in Sanmu-shi, where 
the Chiba Office is located, and various other locations. “It will be great if clean-up activities spread to other 
areas, learning from the experiences of Hirono-machi as a model case. I hope the towns will become safe for people to live in as early as possible,” says Okazaki. Utilizing its 
technology and knowledge, Fujifilm RI Pharma will con-
tinue to provide support for reconstruction efforts.32 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 33Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
At FUJIFILM Holdings, since 2010, we have been imple-
menting our medium-term CSR plan of promotional 
policies and priorities in efforts to achieve the objec-
tives set out in our Management Plan. The medium-
term CSR plan aims at achieving both business growth 
and environmental impact reduction as well as increas-
ing the brand value of our Group companies through 
promoting CSR. The plan is based on increased coop-
eration between the Group companies, and we are 
committed to the three promotion policies and five 
priorities established. Our CSR activities aimed at con-
tributing to the achievement of our management tar-
gets have been steadily making progress. In 2010, we 
addressed our priority issues with actions linked to our business, for example, by promoting anti-global warm-
ing measures and the environmental advantages of our 
products, through efforts to develop energy-saving 
technologies at each site and subsequent horizontal 
deployment of the results.Led by the holding company FUJIFILM Holdings, the 
Fujifilm Group has strengthened the Group’s strategic 
management and governance system for Group 
management and conducts business as a Group that makes 
clear social contributions. When shifting to a holding 
company system, we created a system for promoting 
CSR activities and specified various CSR policies such as 
our Green Policy (Environmental Policy) and Social 
Contribution Policy (see p. 46). These policies clarify the 
Group’s CSR principles and values so that all employees 
can contribute to CSR activities. Building on the creation 
of the CSR system, we will tighten the link between CSR 
activities and our business, aiming toward achieving our 
management goals while fulfilling CSR and attaining 
sustainable growth together with society. The Fujifilm Group’s CSR issues are defined by (1) the 
significance of each issue to the Group and (2) the assess-ment of compliance with laws, regulations, social expec-
tations and demands. These are reflected into planning 
by identifying priority issues as below.Promoting CSR through Increased Cooperation within  the Fujifilm Group
A CSR system that supports the achievement of 
management goals for the Group as a whole
Medium-term CSR plan for achieving sustainable developmentThe Fujifilm Group examines issues involving CSR from the perspectives of both a corporation and stake-
holders, and promotes CSR activities through specifying priority areas and deciding concrete measures.The Fujifilm Group’s Medium-Term CSR Plan
Overview of the medium-term CSR plan
Priority Issues Progress Made (as of 2010)
1.  Promotion of anti-global  
warming measures-  Promotion of cross-group projects linked with energy cost reduction  (efforts for energy-saving technologies at each site, horizontal deployment, etc.)
-  Promotion of a green lifestyle in the workplace and home, using a CO
2 
visualization tool under the awareness project entitled “ICE Project”  (CO
2 emissions reduced by approximately 800 tons)
2.  Promotion of Design for Environment (DfE) -  Improvement of awareness for an environmental consciousness by revising the Goal Setting Sheet for Design for Environment (DfE)
-Survey the degree of awareness for Design for Environment (DfE)
Effective use of resources -  Cross-site efforts for producing valuable products from waste oil and reducing waste disposal (7 factories*)
*  Kanagawa factory (Odawara and Ashigara), Fujinomiya factory, Yoshida-minami factory, FUJIFILM 
Opto Materials, FUJIFILM Electronic Materials, and FUJIFILM Finechemicals Hiratsuka factory
Biodiversity conservation -  Confirmation of the effect on the eco-system by investigating land usage at our 
domestic and overseas sites 
-  Expansion of Design for Environment (DfE) with additional evaluation items for biodiversity conservation
-  Awareness program for employees and their families implemented across the 
Fujifilm Group
3.  Improvement in chemical  
substances management- Provision and disclosure of information on a product’s chemical substance-  Promotion and participation in activities to communicate and create mechanisms 
for information on chemical substances that crosses industries
4.  Promotion of social contribution activities 
linked with main business- Begin reviewing plans for research and human resource development-  Provision of educational materials for partially-sighted children using  the printing business
5.  Quality improvement in compliance and risk management for the entire Group-  Promotion of the Global Code of Conduct and risk management activities including information security
-  Enhancement of a compliance system for the laws and regulations  
of foreign countries
- CSR procurement in cooperation with vendors, using the Self-Check Sheet
Efforts to achieve CSR management by developing 
and steadily implementing a medium-term CSR plan last year are commendable. For that reason alone, 
clearly outlining directions and activities in the three-
year medium-term CSR plan roadmap will further in-crease transparency.  The Fujifilm Group will play a part that will trans-
form social structures by being one step ahead of the curve. My hope is that Fujifilm will continue to create 
new values by focusing on long-term perspectives and 
be a company that engages the stakeholders.
Develop a target based on 
overall CSR plans
Mr. Hiroshi Ishida 
Executive Director
Caux Round Table – JapanVOICEThe Fujiﬁlm Group’s history and CSR activities after the shift to a holding company structureMateriality of priority CSR issues
Producing photographic ﬁlm domestically/Establishing a domestic sales networ kDiversiﬁcation of business/Expanding overseas market sExpanding overseas bases/Progress of digitizationStarted the medium-term management 
plan VISION 75 toward the “Second Fo undation”Rebuilding corporate structure  
and growth strategies
1934:  Fuji Photo Film Co ., Ltd. was established1962:  Fuji Xerox was established2001:  Fuji Xerox became a consolidated subsidiary2008:  Toyama Chemical Co ., Ltd. 
 became a consolidated subsidiary
2006:  Shifted to a holding company structure
Producing photographic ﬁlm domestically/Establishing a d
 ic ﬁlm d om
Diversiﬁcation of business/Expanding ov
 n of busine
Expanding overseas bases/P
verseas bas
Started the m
 e m
plan VISIO N
ION 
Re
an
1962:  Fuji Xerox was esta b
tablished
2001:  Fuji Xerox 
Fuji Xerox 
200
200Establishing a CSR activity system following
 the shift to a holding company structur e
(October 2006 to March 2010 )CSR to support the achievement of management targets
(since April 2010)
19341950198020042010Social expectations 
and requests
Voluntary and 
industrial criteria
Compliance
Inﬂuence on the Fujiﬁlm GroupExternal ev aluationHigh
Low
Low High
Materiality:  Medium Materiality:  High
Materiality:  Low Materiality:  High
Occupational safety 
and health
BiodiversitySocial and cultural 
contributionClimate change
Information disclosur e
and dialogue
CSR-oriented 
procurementHumanresource s
development
Objective evaluation 
of CSR activities
Enhancement of internal controlQuality and safet y
Human rights and employment
Promote CSR that 
support the achievement of 
management issues 
by strengthening 
cooperation between 
the Fujifilm Group business companies. 
Achieve business 
growth and reduce 
environmental 
impact, and aim to further improve CSR 
brand value. 34 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 35Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
For details on CO 2 emissions in 2010 and core measures for 
reducing CO 2 emissions, please see p.62.Fuji Xerox has developed its original IH (induction heat-
ing) fusing technology which dramatically decreases the 
time for office copiers and multifunction devices to start 
up or to resume from the energy-saving mode. The 
company replaced halogen lamps —the traditional heat 
source for fixing the toner onto paper— to IH. Also, a thin 
copper film, which can heat up easily, is used as heat 
generator. As a result, the start-up time of the fusing 
device was reduced from approximately 40 to 3 seconds, 
fastest in the world. The EA-Eco toner, which fixes onto 
paper at about 20 degrees Celsius lower, also contributes 
to the drastic reduction in start-up time. This rapid 
heating not only increases convenience, but also saves a significant amount of energy as it no longer requires 
preheating in the standby or energy-saving mode. Besides the IH fusing technology, various other 
technologies unique to Fuji Xerox are used to reduce energy consumption, as seen in the adoption of high-
luminosity white LED for the light source for image 
scanning. As a culmination of these technologies, 11 
models of 8 product lines were released in 2010.
 The reduction in power consumption realized by 
the printers and multifunction devices sold by Fuji Xerox in 2010 is 1.06 million tons 
CO
2 equivalent.* Thus, we 
will continue to strive in our research and development 
efforts to reduce CO
2 emis-
sions in the use phase of the product life cycle.
* The comparison is based on the amount of electricity consumed for 5 years and is made against the 
products of the same class sold in 2000.
As mentioned above, Fuji Xerox has been implementing 
measures to reduce CO 2 emissions throughout the 
product life cycle. We also place emphasis on the devel-
opment of applications that contribute to CO 2 emission 
reductions at customers’ offices. As a result, we have developed and released SE-BizObject Environmental 
Burden Monitoring System, which visualizes the amount 
of CO
2 emitted by printing with office printers or multi-
function devices and by consuming electricity for lighting or other purposes through power outlets.
 The system uses the Fuji Xerox ApeosWare Management 
Suite and enables users to see the amount of printing done as well as the amount of CO
2 emitted by themselves High environmental quality contributing to customer satisfaction and reduced stress on the environmentSigniﬁcantly reducing CO 2 emissions with  
IH fusing technology
Visualizing the CO 2 emissions of each userClimate Change Measures
1. Data calculation 2. Analysis 3. Visualization
Data calculationPrinting
machinesAnalysis
Analysis
module
Environmenta l
Burden Monitoring
System
Display on the control 
panel of hybrid machines
Display on the PCs of
each user and administrator s
Creation of reports
Display of energy
consumption in the officeCollection
of logs
Administra tor
p
of logs
Job logs
Energy
consumption
data
Data calculation
moduleVisualization
module
 m
Energy
consumption data
for the officeUser
Energy
consumptionEnergy
consumption
ApeosPort-IV C5570/C4470Screen showing a personal eco level
Actual performance of the  
Fujiﬁlm Group in 2005 (base year)Goal of the Fujiﬁlm Group for 2020 (target year)Structure of the Environmental Burden Monitoring System
05001,0001,5002,000
05001,0001,5002,000
370
Procurement
Production
Transportation
Use
Disposal
Procurement
Production
Transportation
Use
Disposal1,4581,200
434
99830
140
2833030
371
1381,828
1,634
929
423 401
1381,487
1,112
365257
1681,319
184181973
257139Total stress on the environment:  
5,049 (kt-CO 2/year)Total stress on the environment : 
3,525 ( kt-CO 2/year)CO2 (kt-CO 2/year) CO2 (kt-CO 2/year)Fujifilm and its Group companies
Fuji XeroxFujifilm and its Group companiesFuji Xerox
30% re duction
(relative to 2005)
In order to tackle global-scale issues such as global 
warming head-on, individual companies need to ex-tend the boundaries of their perspective from them-
selves and their Group companies to the whole region 
or society in which they operate. This is because an optimal situation for an entire company is only partially optimal from the standpoint of society or the world. If that is the case, the environmental friendliness 
of products or services is realized only after they cor-rectly reflect social needs. As people’s values changed 
significantly in Japan, especially after the earthquake 
disaster, the companies that will grow in the future are ones that quickly extend such boundaries and lis-ten to the true voices of society.
Responding to social needs and 
expanding the boundaries
Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi 
Special Advisor
United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative in the Asia Pacific regionVOICE
Please visit the following website for details on IH fusing technology.
  http://www.fujixerox.com/eng/company/technology/ih_fuser/ URLon the control panel of the device or a computer screen. 
Also, using information on electricity use from the power 
distribution board, the system can visualize the power 
consumption of other companies’ products, lighting 
equipment, computers, and the office as a whole.
 The system’s capability to visualize CO 2 emissions 
raises environmental awareness and promotes reduc-
tions in printing costs and energy consumption.
* ICE: Ideas for a Cool Earth
We aim to satisfy each of our customers and attain sustainable development in our companies and society 
by achieving high environmental quality in our products, services, and business activities.
In April 2010, the Fujifilm Group set its long-term goal 
to reduce CO 2 emissions by 30% by 2020 (relative to 
the 2005 level) for the entire life cycle of its products. Efforts to reduce CO
2 emissions from corporate activities 
are not limited to business operations, but are extended to the entire life cycle of the products and services (from the procurement of raw materials to the production, 
transportation, use, and disposal of the products). We will reduce CO
2 emissions to less than 3.525 million tons 
per year by 2020 from 5.049 million tons per year in 2005 (the base year).Since 2008, Fujifilm has engaged in the ICE* project. 
The project is for the employees of Fujifilm and its Group 
companies and their family members, and aims to 
reduce CO
2 emissions both in the workplace and at 
home. The project encourages their participation in the Million People’s Candle Night in which each participant suggests a concrete way to reduce CO
2 emissions and 
raises awareness. We expect individual participants in the project to become interested in issues for protecting 
the global environment such as global warming and 
increase their environmental awareness by receiving 
information on environmental issues daily through the 
project activities.
 In the workplace, the project promoted CO
2 emission 
reductions in a wider range of activities and raised environmental awareness by extending, in 2010, the coverage of the program for safe eco-driving (see p. 18) 
to include not only company vehicles, but also the cars 
that employees use for commuting. For employees’ 
homes, a campaign, the ICE Challenge, was held for employees and their family members for the 3-month 
period between July and September. The campaign en-
couraged employees and their family members to be-
come strongly interested in the global environment and 
to make their individual lifestyles environmentally 
friendly. In 2010, the amount of CO
2 emissions reduced 
reached around 800 tons. In 2011, in response to the country’s critical situation regarding the electricity sup-
ply, the activities focused on energy conservation efforts 
to curb households’ total electricity consumption and 
peak electricity demand during the summer.
 At Fujifilm, we believe that activities such as these 
carried out by each and every employee will contribute to building a sustainable society.The quantity of output produced in 2010 was larger than that in 2005 (the base year) due to corporate efforts 
and the recovering economy. As a result, we were not 
able to avoid an increase in CO
2 emissions from the 
procurement of raw materials and the transportation of the products, but we were able to reduce CO
2 emissions 
from the production of the products by promoting ener-gy-saving measures and other factors. Also, despite in-
creased product sales, we were successful in reducing 
CO
2 emissions from the use of our products as we devel-
oped hybrid machines with low power consumption.The Fujiﬁlm Group’s long-term goal for  
anti-global warming measuresAnti-global warming activities that employees introduce at home
CO
2 emissions in 2010  
(for the entire life cycle of products and services)36 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 37Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
When designing new products and upgrading existing 
ones, the Fujifilm Group strives to reduce environmental 
burden by following its “Basic Rules for Design for 
Environment (DfE).” Environmental goals that take 
into consideration the product’s total life cycle are set at 
the early stages of product development, from the per-
spectives of the 3R  (reduce, reuse, and recycle) concept, 
chemical substances contained, resources used, energy 
consumption, safety, compliance and other factors. 
When development is completed the degree of achieve-
ment of those goals is examined. Products that do not 
meet standards of environmental quality are not 
commercialized. In line with the “LCA Operational 
Procedures,” we also conduct life cycle assessments of 
the environmental impact of our products, from the 
procurement, production, and distribution stages, 
through to the use, disposal, and recycling stages, and 
analyze their impact quantitatively and objectively.
In order to raise awareness of the importance of setting 
environmental quality objectives and clarify the effec-
tiveness of environmentally friendly activities, in 2010, 
we reexamined our evaluation items and revised the 
forms used during DfE. The revised content was proac-
tively communicated to all employees by professionals 
from every department tasked to promote DfE. We 
will continue to use the revised forms to further 
reduce environmental impact in the future. 
 Early in February 2010, we incorporated items and 
commenced implementation of measures related to bio-diversity conservation, an issue that is garnering attention 
worldwide, into the “Basic Rules for DfE,” thus ensuring 
consideration for the issue from the product design stage. 
The Fujifilm Group conducts activities on an ongoing basis 
to promote awareness and understanding of biodiversity 
conservation among all employees.To reduce environmental burden, Fujifilm started recy-cling the raw material of PS and CTP plates, namely aluminum, used in planographic printing, which are 
main products in the company’s graphic systems busi-ness. The process for refining aluminum consumes a 
large amount of electricity and thus emits large amounts of CO
2. Therefore, Fujifilm established a closed-loop re-
cycling system for aluminum that results during the production process and which does not go into prod-
ucts, such as aluminum in samples and scrap aluminum. 
In the production of PS plates, the use of ingots from 
recycled aluminum is expected to reduce CO
2 emissions 
by 63%. The aluminum recycling system became fully 
operational in 2008 with cooperation from manufactur-ers of aluminum alloy and rolled aluminum. In 2010, the 
proportion of recycled aluminum used in PS plates reached approximately 10%. The closed-loop recycling 
reduced CO
2 by about 120,000 tons from 2008 through 
2010. This is equivalent to two times the amount of CO 2 
emissions from the Yoshida-Minami Factory where PS plates are produced. In its development of the environmentally friendly thermal CTP system, ECONEX, Fujifilm reexamined the 
designs with the aim of reducing environmental burden, 
and based this reexamination on the concept of DfE 
that encompasses the entire product life cycle. With regard 
to the ECONEX XP Series thermal plates, raw material 
obtained from closed-loop recycling (in the form of ingots) is used at the raw material stage. At the use stage, the 
amount of developing solution required for refill has 
been reduced by up to 40% due to our rapid-dispersion 
development technology. At the disposal stage, the use 
of our XR-2000/5000 machines, which were developed 
to reduce the amount of waste developing solution 
produced, makes it possible to condense waste de -
veloping solution, which used to be incinerated, to one-eighth of its original volume and to make 
the remaining seven-eighths into reclaimed water 
which can be put to effective use. Our XR-2000/5000 
machines are highly rated as machines that contribute 
to reducing the amounts of final industrial waste 
disposal of the newspaper printing and commercial In November 2010, under a new marketing strategy, Fuji Xerox launched nine models of the new DocuPrint 
series —A4 single function/multifunction printers—including the DocuPrint CM205 b. The new series has 
realized class-leading levels of reduction in size/weight, and has introduced new-generation environmentally 
friendly features. It boasts Fuji Xerox’s renowned high-quality imag-
ing while achieving lower cost by aiming for reduced size and weight to the limit. The number of initiatives to 
realize the size reduction include: 1. employed a high-
resolution LED printhead that allows elimination of the 
optical mechanism of a laser printer such as a polygon 
mirror; 2. did not incorporate a main body frame while 
ensuring sufficient rigidity; and 3. utilized common parts 
so the number of parts can be reduced to an absolute 
minimum. Furthermore, all parts, including a photore-
ceptor, adopted long-life design, eliminating the need 
for parts replacement and space for servicing and main-
tenance. Equipped with the above features, this new 
printer series has secured a cost advantage in a competi-
tive growth market.
 Since this market requires the same level of quick 
response as in the IT home electronics market, manufac-turing lead-time has been drastically reduced, as well as 
the timely and highly efficient SCM framework was es-
tablished not to miss out on sales opportunities. Overall 
environmental impact has been reduced throughout the 
value chain not only by the product features such as in-
creased energy efficiency and longer lifespan, but also 
by the compact size and lightweight body that contrib-
ute to lower environmental impact during distribution. 
Additionally, production time was reduced compared to 
earlier models by 44% for 
color printers and by 53% 
for black-and-white printers.Analyzing and Evaluating Environmental Burden throughout the Entire Product Cycle
The basic concepts of Design for Environment
Measures to conserve biodiversity  
by reexamining the evaluation items  for Design for Environment Reducing CO
2 emissions by recycling  
scrap aluminum
Introducing a system that reduces environmental 
burden generated by the printing processEnvironmentally friendly compact LED printers, 
launched under a new marketing strategyPromotion of Design for Environment (DfE)
Greenhouse gas emission rates by life cycleClosed-loop recycling of scrap aluminum
Scheme of the waste solution disposal process
Raw materials procurement
81.0%Production
12.7%Distribution  2.8%Use and maintenance  3.0% Disposal and recycling  0.5%
Greenhouse ga s
emission rates
Reduced industrial waste
Reduced CO 2 emissions during transportation 
and incinerationReduced disposal costsWaste 
developing solutionReclaimed w ater
(approx.  7/8)Waste w ater 
treatment/reuseEffective
resource us e
Inciner ationDisposal of
industrial waste
Condensed w aste solution
(approx.  1/8) (Industrial w aste)PumpAutomatic
discharge
XR-2000/5000Recycling reclaimed w ater contributes 
to a significant reduction in the amount 
of waste disposal and to 
resource conserv ationReduction in CO 2 emissions by appr oximately 120,000 tons
from 2008 to Mar ch 2010Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami F actory
Scrapped PS plates (scr ap aluminum)
Aluminum alloy 
manufacturer
Smelting,  casting,  recycled ingotsRolled aluminum
manufacturer
Aluminum coil (new and recycled ingots)Aluminum refiner
New ingotsManufacturing 
of PS plates
Shipment 
of PS platesprinting industry. These machines also received the 
Technological Development Incentive Award from the 
Japan Newspaper Publishers and Editors Association. 
Moreover, the introduction of an LED laser into the 
thermal platesetters, Luxel PLATESETTER T-9900G, not 
only decreases CO 2 emissions at the use stage, but also 
increases the life of the platesetters. Throughout the life 
cycle of the product from raw materials to disposal, the ECONEX XP Series contributes to reducing the environ-
mental burden of the printing industry.
DocuPrint CM205 b, a new A4 color 
multifunction printer To protect the global environment, we must not only reduce the environmental burden caused by our 
product production processes, but also analyze and assess this environmental burden throughout the 
entire product cycle, from planning to disposal.38 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 39Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
Since its establishment, the Fujifilm Group has been 
acutely aware that all of its business has benefited from 
nature while at the same time impacting on it, and so has engaged in various environmental protection activi-
ties based on the belief that environmental conscious-ness and environmental protection are at the core of our 
corporate activities. As part of our efforts, in June 2009, we clarified our guidelines for cross-group efforts toward 
biodiversity conservation and created “The Fujifilm Group Basic Concepts and Action Guidelines for 
Biodiversity Conservation” (hereafter “Guidelines for Biodiversity”). Both within and outside the company, we 
are engaging in initiatives for preservation and mainte-nance of the ecosystem, which we humans enjoy today, 
for future generations.To participate in international efforts for producing and 
using chemical products while minimizing their risks to-
ward people’s health and the environment, the Fujifilm Group conducts its business with action guidelines that 
advocate risk reduction through improved management of chemical substances and the chemical content of 
products. The Safety Evaluation Center plays an impor-tant role in this regard.
 To conserve biodiversity, it is necessary to under-
stand the effects of chemical substances on the ecosys-
tem. The Center received a certificate of GLP* compliance from the former Ministry of International Trade and 
Industry in 1986 and started tests to assess the ways in which chemical substances decomposed in the ecosystem or accumulated in organisms (carp). It has now accumu-lated a large amount of data from such tests. The Center 
also received a certificate of GLP compliance from the Ministry of the Environment in 2005, at which time it be-
gan testing the effects of chemicals on aquatic organisms (algae, daphnia, and fish) in the ecosystem and is currently 
studying various impacts on the ecosystem. Furthermore, in order to conduct assessments from a long-term perspec-
tive, we are considering introducing chronic toxicity tests that determine the propagation of aquatic organisms.
 We will continue to contribute to the protection of 
the ecosystem and biodiversity by assessing the effects 
of the production and use of chemical substances on the aquatic environment and other parts of the ecosys-
tem from a broad, long-term perspective.
*  Certificate of GLP (Good Laboratory Practice):   
Standards established regarding the organization, facilities and equipment, procedures, etc.  
that a testing facility should have in order to ensure the reliability of test results.
While Fuji Xerox was previously aware of the importance 
of biodiversity, its relevant activities were limited to re-
questing its paper suppliers to follow its rules on paper 
procurement, complying with laws and regulations, and 
preventing destructive impacts of deforestation on the 
ecosystem, and the voluntary participation of employees 
in activities to protect mountains near villages.
 As the role of companies in conserving biodiversity 
became clear through, for example, the introduction of 
the Ministry of Environment’s Guidelines for Private 
Sector Engagement in Biodiversity, we recognized the Minimizing the Negative Impacts on Biodiversity that 
Supports Our Life and Daily Activities
Biodiversity guidelines aimed at passing on 
the gifts of nature to future generationsEvaluation of the impacts of chemical substances on the ecosystem from a broad, long-term perspective
Biodiversity-conscious land management  at production sitesBiodiversity Conservation
Fujiﬁlm Group Guidelines for Biodiversity
Basic concepts and action guidelines for  
biodiversity conservation
Basic Concepts
In order to create a sustainable society, we have a respon-sibility to sincerely address serious problems currently fac-ing us to eliminate negative legacies being passed on to 
future generations.
 Among these serious problems, including climate 
change issues such as global warming is biodiversity loss that is occurring at a critical speed due to destruction of ecosystems and extinction of various living species.
 Biodiversity provides us with food, medicine, and en-
ergy while reducing the risk of disasters. It is the very 
foundation of our culture and art, supporting our life and 
daily activities.
 As the Fujifilm Group’s business activities are closely 
related to biodiversity, it is our responsibility to avoid or 
minimize negative impacts on it, by addressing its preser-
vation and sustainable usage. In doing so, it is essential to 
take into consideration that we exist in a state of global 
interdependence and keep an international perspective when taking necessary actions.Action Guidelines
  To avoid destruction of biodiversity  
Biodiversity is the “web of life.” In business activities, 
the Fujifilm Group avoids or minimizes negative impacts 
on this web of life, and gives due consideration not to have anything to do with destruction of the web.
  To preserve biodiversity  
In business activities, the Fujifilm Group strives to keep the natural environment healthy and diverse, consider-ing environmental preservation that reflects the natural 
and social conditions of each local community.
  To make best use of biodiversity  
The Fujifilm Group adopts sustainable methods to use biological resources for business activities, based on a 
long-term point of view, in order to maintain biodiver-sity for future generations.
  To act globally  
The Fujifilm Group strives to recognize impacts on bio-
diversity to reduce environmental burdens in domestic 
and overseas value chain frameworks when performing business activities.
  To meet social requirements  
The Fujifilm Group complies with international laws and 
regulations regarding biodiversity, and values collabora-
tion and harmony with public bodies, NPO/NGOs, and other companies.
  To share information  
The Fujifilm Group proactively discloses information on 
its activities relating to biodiversity. The Fujifilm Group 
also makes efforts to raise employees’ awareness of biodiversity issues to improve the quality and effective-
ness of the Group’s activities for such issues.
A test using daphnia
We conduct a wide range of tests using aquatic organisms such 
as algae and fish. (The photo is of a fish tank.)need for our active participation in this area. Judging 
that we needed to reexamine our efforts in this area, 
before fiscal 2010 we commissioned experts to make an 
assessment of our business from the standpoint of bio-
diversity conservation. The assessment revealed that we 
did not completely understand the land usage at our 
large-scale sites for production or product development. 
In response, we investigated the land usage at our do-
mestic and overseas production/product development 
sites and checked for risks to biodiversity in fiscal 2010. 
Fortunately, the assessment found no operation-related 
risks that would disturb the ecosystem.
 At the same time, it was suggested that we should 
contribute to the restoration of regional biodiversity by utilizing the land at our operation sites and use the as-
sessment results to educate our employees. We are now creating guidelines for land usage so that each site can 
actively promote the conservation of biodiversity. Also, to avoid risks and contribute to the restoration of biodiversity 
from the standpoint of the entire supply chain, we are 
clarifying the actions to be taken toward biodiversity 
conservation and will aim constantly to improve them 
within the existing environmental management system.
Pure water is one of the most important natural re-
source for the Fujifilm Group. Biodiversity supports the environment in which pure water is found. In terms of 
environmental impacts of chemical substances, assess-
ing the impact on aquatic organisms and maintaining a viable habitat will lead to supporting the foundation of those regions natural ecosystems.  Fujifilm will revive the regions’ beautiful natural 
environment by breaking away from the perspective of Biodiversity as simply risk management. I hope that 
Fujifilm will communicate and provide this new value 
as part of the region’s allure.
Seeing things in  
a broader perspective
Ms. Yumiko Tsuruda 
“The Nature Conservation” Chief Editor
The Nature Conservation Society of JapanVOICETo realize a sustainable society, we must avoid or minimize negative impacts on biodiversity, which supports 
our life and daily activities, in the areas of food, pharmaceutical products, energy, and disaster reduction.
Scenes from an assessment at the Suzuka site40 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 41Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
In order to protect the environment and ensure safety, 
the Fujifilm Group rigorously manages chemical sub-
stances, declaring in its Green Policy (see p. 66) that it 
ensures management of chemical substances that is one step ahead and the chemical contents of its products, 
and strives to reduce risks. We not only properly manage 
the chemical substances used at the production stage to 
prevent them from being carelessly released into the 
environment, but also reduce risks by assessing the 
safety of our employees at the production stage, the 
safety of our customers at the use stage, and environ-
mental impacts at the disposal stage.
 Taking advantage of the knowledge and experience 
that we have accumulated as a chemical company, we also actively contribute to society through various indus-
try-wide efforts toward sound chemical management. 
At its Safety Evaluation Center, an internationally recog-
nized, GLP*-compliant facility, Fujifilm comprehensively 
evaluates the safety of various chemical substances, ma-
terials, and products that are developed or used. 
Established in 1975, the Center ensures the safety of 
products throughout their life cycle by conducting tests 
on a wide range of safety issues involving the global envi-
ronment or people’s health, at every phase from initial 
development to the preparation of products for market. 
These tests are also conducted for chemical substances 
used by Fujifilm and Group companies. The Center also 
conducts tests commissioned by external organizations 
such as government agencies and contributes to society 
by properly functioning as a GLP facility.
 In recent years, as business expands into the areas of 
high performance materials and health care, we have improved the technologies used in safety evaluations, 
which involve environmental impact testing, toxicity 
screening, toxicity mechanism analysis, and forecasting 
based on quantitative structure-activity relationships for 
toxicity. We are taking full advantage of improvements in 
such technologies in the development of safe products.Fujifilm began offering JAMP MSDSplus and JAMP AIS, a common data format recommended by JAMP (Joint 
Article Management Promotion-consortium), a cross-
industry organization, since 2008. 
 JAMP was established in 2006 to communicate in-
formation on chemical substances in products throughout 
the supply chain. Fujifilm has been a member since the 
consortium’s foundation and has been actively partici-
pating in the development and dissemination of the 
framework for smooth communication on a global scale.At Fuji Xerox, we strictly manage the use and storage of chemical substances, taking into account both the work 
environment and the natural environment. In 2008, we Fuji Xerox audits chemical substances management at 
its domestic and overseas sites for production or product development every 3 years. In 2010, 6 domestic produc-
tion sites were audited; in 2011, 6 overseas production sites are scheduled for audit. 
 Commissioned by the Corporate Audit Department, 
personnel from the Environmental Management 
Department as well as from each operation site conduct an inspection of chemical substances management. This 
joint audit system is intended to provide opportunities for mutually identifying aspects that are preferable or 
are to be improved. Based on the Rules for Management of Chemical 
Substances, the evaluation items include whether the 
chemical substances management system is administered 
and maintained properly, whether risks are assessed and reduced, and whether pipes are set above the ground 
and are double-layered. The audit results are reported to the managers of the inspected site as well as the President 
and other relevant Board Members and are utilized to enhance safety from a systemic standpoint. Ensuring Sound Management of Chemical Substances for Environmental Protection and Safety
Basic concepts of chemical  
substances management
Assessing the safety of chemical substances, 
materials, and products at the Safety Evaluation CenterDisclosure and provision of information on chemical substances,  participation in developing the frameworkStrict chemical substances management based on uniﬁed management standardsEvaluating chemical substances management to strengthen the chemical substances management systemManagement of Chemical Substances
Representative tests conducted at the Safety Evaluation Center
Safety classiﬁcationPurpose Evaluation items
Development of safe 
chemical substancesToxicity screening (cytotoxicity test, gene expression 
analysis, etc.); analysis of toxicity mechanisms of 
chemical substances based on toxicokinetics 
analysis; quantitative structure-activity relationships 
for toxicity (QSAR)
Occupational safetyAmes test; chromosome aberration test; acute 
toxicity test (oral, dermal); skin irritation test; skin sensitization test; explosiveness test
Product safetyAcute toxicity test (oral); skin irritation test; eye irritation test; skin sensitization test; Ames test
Compliance with laws and regulations Bio degradation test; bio concentration test; partition coefficient test; Ames test; chromosome aberration test; repeated dose toxicity test, ecotoxicity test (algal growth inhibition test, Daphnia acute immobilization test, fish acute toxicity test)
Classification  
categoryMain criteriaType of  
management
C0
Large effects on 
human health: strictness of laws and regulations-  Class 1 designated 
chemical substances, substances whose production is prohibited, designated toxic substances, 
substances whose use 
is prohibited in the production process under internal standards, etc.Use prohibited
C1-  Substances subject to voluntary reduction
-  Class 1 monitored chemical substances, 
hexavalent chromium, 
dichloromethane, formaldehyde, etc.Use canceled, or reduced use or 
emissions
C2-  Group 1 designated 
chemical substances, IARC group I, internal 
group 1 mutagenic 
substances, greenhouse gases, etc.Sealed, or limited 
management
C3-  Acute toxicity, internal 
group 2 mutagenic substances, internal-rank sensitizing substances, etc.
-  Substances subject to environmental safety laws and regulations  (category 1 substances)Management based on risk assessment
C4-  Substances subject to environmental safety laws and regulations  (category 2 substances)General management
SSubstances (endocrine disruptors, etc.) with potential risks in the absence of established laws, regulations, and methods for evaluating the degree of hazardsUse of substitutes; reduced use, emission, or exposure In 2010, we started providing JAMP MSDSplus 
through JAMP-IT, an information system established for 
the purpose of communicating information on chemical 
substances smoothly between companies. 
 We also expanded information on chemical sub-
stances disclosed in our website by revising MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheets) of all our chemical prod-ucts which conform to GHS (Globally Harmonized System 
of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals). We will continue our efforts to ensure the highest 
level of safety for chemical substances by participating in development of the framework to communicate in-
formation throughout the supply chain while expanding 
and improving the chemical substances information we 
offer and disclose.
Webpage that presents the product 
safety data sheet
Product safety data sheet 
*  Good Laboratory Practice (GLP): Standards established regarding the organization, facilities and 
equipment,  procedures, etc. that a testing facility should have in order to ensure the reliability of test results. For tests related to the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their 
Manufacture, the Safety Evaluation Center is certified for GLP compliance by the Ministry of Economy, 
Trade, and Industry, the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare, and the Ministry of the Environment.Considering environmental impacts and the safety of our customers and employees, we pay scrupulous 
attention to the management of chemical substances over the entire product life cycle, including the 
stages of production, use, and disposal.revised our “Rules for Management of Chemical Substances” 
and unified the safety categorization of chemical sub -
stances so that we were able to manage them seamlessly with Fujifilm. The “Rules for Management of Chemical 
Substances” contain provisions on risk assessment for 
chemical substances, on the evaluation of environmental 
risks and safety risks, and on accident response and risk management. Moreover, chemical substances are man-
aged in a uniform manner by Fuji Xerox and other Group companies, both in Japan and overseas.
Planning
Preliminary survey
Audit report
Counter measures
Final report
Follow-upAuditChecklist
(From the chemical substances management audit bylaws)Chemical substances management process42 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 43Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
The Fujifilm Group contributes to society through its 
business operations, actively gets involved in local com-
munities, and pursues activities that contribute to the 
sustainable development of society.
Visually impaired students in elementary schools and junior high schools in Japan are provided with large-print 
textbooks produced by volunteer groups and other enti-
ties. Fuji Xerox collaborates with volunteer groups to 
make large-print textbooks steadily available to students. 
This activity started with making color copying machine 
at some of our offices in Kanagawa Prefecture available free of charge in 1989. It was subsequently expanded to 
a company-wide activity as it is a social contribution ac-
tivity that takes advantage of our main business and is 
feasible for many offices to run. In 2010, 40 sites of 21 
companies (Fuji Xerox and domestic affiliates) partici-
pated in the activity. Outside Japan, a sales company 
in China has started supporting production of large-
print textbooks in Beijing. We will continue to offer our 
support to building a more efficient environment, from 
production to distribution, with the goal of providing 
large-print textbooks to all visually impaired children 
and students.Despite having a cancer rate that is among the highest in the world, the screening rate for cancer in Japan is low among OECD member countries. At Fujifilm, led by 
our Medical Business Division, we have created the Project Team for Promoting Cancer Screening to improve 
the cancer screening rate among our employees. We also actively engage in activities relevant to cancer 
screening. In 2010, we expanded the effort to cover Fujifilm and other Group companies, started an intranet 
project for our employees called “Go Receive Cancer Screening!” held various awareness programs, such as 
seminars for employees on cancer, and promotional programs, and engaged in a variety of other activities 
designed to improve the cancer screening rate. Our ef-forts toward the early detection, diagnosis, and treat-
ment of cancer also include preparing in-house medical services that utilize a bus equipped with cancer screen-
ing tools. With regard to breast cancer in particular, since the mammography machine is one of Fujifilm’s 
main products, we subsidize screening for women’s cancer (breast cancer, cervical cancer) as part of our 
Cancer Awareness Program which has been running 
since 2003.
 As a company offering advanced medical instru-
ments and systems, not only the rate of screening, but also the accuracy of screening is important to us. For 
gastric cancer, we recommend endoscopic screening 
rather than X-ray screening for early detection, and the 
company covers the cost difference. For breast cancer, 
using double reading and other methods, we will keep 
seeking to improve screening accuracy.
 We aim to achieve screening rates of 90% for pul-
monary, gastric, bowel, and breast cancer and 50% for cervical cancer by the end of 2011. We will continue to 
expand our activities to other Group companies to 
enhance all of our employees’ quality of life.Fujifilm promotes increased public awareness of breast cancer through the Pink Ribbon movement. At the Fujifilm Senior Championship golf tourna-
ment held by the Professional Golfers’ Association of 
Japan and sponsored by the Fujifilm Group, all players 
and staff members wore a Pink Ribbon badge during the tournament to raise cancer awareness. At the tour-
nament site, we set up trucks equipped with screening tools for breast and gastric cancer with help from a local 
health care provider and provided a cancer screening service to those who wanted it. Besides such events, we 
continually raise awareness of cancer by distributing the “Breast Cancer Handbook” and Pink Ribbon promo-
tional items both in and outside the company. We also actively promote the Pink Ribbon movement overseas.
 As part of our activities outside Japan, we have 
started fund-raising activities for the National Breast 
Cancer Foundation in the United States, launched a Spanish website for breast cancer awareness, and sold 
pink digital camera sets for charity. In China, we have actively promoted the Pink Ribbon movement by hold-
ing seminars on breast cancer. As these examples show, 
our efforts extend well beyond our national borders.
Clean water is essential to the production of various types of film and, ever since its establishment, Fujifilm 
has operated based on the belief that environmental 
consciousness and environmental protection are at the 
very core of corporate activities. As water and air are 
nonsubstitutable and limited resources, we continue 
actively to use water-saving equipment and take other 
water-saving actions at each operational site. 
 As one of these efforts, Fujifilm Kyushu has actively 
become involved in a tree-planting operation (Hikari no 
Mori) which has contributed to groundwater protection. 
In 2010, Fujifilm Kyushu started collaborating with local 
farmers in Minamiaso in activities to further protect 
groundwater. The amount of water seeping into the 
ground is increased by the farmers keeping water in 
their paddy fields throughout the year. This not only 
leads to groundwater recharge business but also leads Social Contribution that Responds Sincerely to  
the Demands and Expectations of SocietySocial Contribution Activities: Contributing through Our Main Business
Basic principles of social contribution activities
Supporting the production and stable supply 
of large-print textbooksEfforts towards the early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer
Encouraging employees to receive  
cancer screeningPromoting the Pink Ribbon Movement  in Japan and overseas
Cooperating with local residents for ground water protectionFujiﬁlm Group Social Contribution Policy
The Fujifilm Group will work together with local communi-
ties as a good corporate citizen and contribute to society 
by responding sincerely to the demands and expectations of those communities. The Group has established the fol-
lowing action plan for implementing this policy.
1. Main activitiesThe Fujifilm Group will primarily focus on the fields of: 
research and education; culture, the arts and sports; 
health; and environmental conservation.
2. Importance of these activities
  Undertake these activities through cooperation  and collaboration
  In implementing these activities, the Fujifilm Group places importance on communication and partner-ships with NPO/NGOs, local communities and others.
  Active support for volunteer activities  
The Fujifilm Group values living in harmony with local 
communities and contributing to society through the 
voluntary participation of employees and fully sup-ports these activities.to contribution in terms of preserving the landscape.
 We will continue to promote various efforts to protect 
water, a resource which is essential to Fujifilm’s business operations, and to contribute to the local community.
Fujifilm Kyushu employees, 
their families, and farmers participated in the Paddy Field Help Team, which is part of the groundwater 
recharge business.
Volunteers at work
Cancer seminar
Mammography screening truck
Educational booklet “Cancer Screening Recommendation” 
TOPICS
We contribute to society through our business operations, cooperate with local communities as a 
responsible corporate citizen, cultivate the minds of children who will lead the next generation, 
and promote the sustainable development of society.44 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 45Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
about their surroundings and the program aims to stimu-
late their awareness of various issues and teach them 
approaches to solving problems based on the Plan-Do-
Check-Act (PDCA) cycle.
 Fuji Xerox agrees with the purpose of the program, 
offers lessons at elementary schools in Minami-ashigara City in Kanagawa Prefecture in cooperation with local government and companies, and trains volunteers. In 
2010, at elementary schools in three areas in Japan, 460 students participated in the Kids’ ISO Program.Social Contribution Activities: Cultivating the Minds of the Next Generation
The Fujifilm Labor Union actively engages in social 
contribution activities of its own. A representative 
example is the volunteer work for afforestation in 
China undertaken each year by the Green Volunteers 
since 1998. In 2010, ten participants from the labor 
union planted or pruned trees in the Horqin Desert in 
Inner Mongolia in China, collaborating with FUJIFILM 
(China) Investment and the NPO Green Network. In 
response to opinions expressed at a stakeholder dia-
logue held in 2009, the volunteer work in 2010 was 
held during the summer vacation period so that em-
ployees could easily participate. The labor union is 
also involved in various other activities including pro-tection of mountains and Operation Green Aid which 
works to realize clean local communities.As a cooperative participant, Fujifilm exhibited at the Kanagawa Science Fair for Junior High and High School 
Students held in July 2010. The event was jointly held by 
Kanagawa Prefecture and a local science/engineering-ori-
ented university to encourage the students to stimulate 
their interest in and deepen their understanding of science 
and engineering fields. Under the title “Visual Wonders: 
Let’s Explore the Mysteries of Light,” Fujifilm explained 
phenomena associated with everyday items, such as an 
LCD and 3D photos, while performing some experiments.
Fujifilm Kyushu supported the fifth anniversary festival 
of Minami-aso Ehon No Kuni (Minami-aso Land of 
Illustrated Books) with which it entered into a “peace treaty” in 2006 as its first partner. Cherishing an illustra-
tion-book-like world and childlike sensitivity, Minami-aso 
Ehon No Kuni aims to create culture and communities 
where children can safely live in the future. We set up a 
Photo Illustration Book Booth and helped 90 people 
from 25 families create original illustration books with 
photographs instead of drawings. We will continue to 
support making opportunities for communication in 
families and communities which surround children.
The Kids’ ISO Program run by NPO ArTech (the International 
Art and Technology Cooperation Organization) provides 
environmental education to children. Children have instincts The American football club team of Fuji Xerox, J-STARS, 
which moved up to the X League Division 1 in 2010, ac-
tively engages in social contribution activities through sports. In 2010, the team participated in the Special 
Olympics* and track and field practice sessions for Japan, 
Hyogo, and Kobe program (Branch). They also partici-
pated in Fureai Natsu Matsuri 2010 (Summer Festival for 
Rapport 2010) where children have the opportunity to engage with a diverse range of people in society.
*  Special Olympics: an international sports organization which, throughout the year, provides sports 
training to people with intellectual disabilities and holds athletic competitions where they can show  the results of their training.Employees of the Toyama Chemical Toyama office 
plant tulip bulbs and sow seeds of cosmos and other 
flowers in the flowerbeds next to the office’s nearest 
tram station, Toyama Light Rail’s Shimo-okui Station. 
Since 2006, this has been done throughout the year 
in cooperation with members of the Toyama City 
Association for Trees and Plants, school teachers, and 
students. The activity has led to greater communica-
tion with local residents. The flowers can be enjoyed 
by local residents and tram passengers.
 The contributions this activity made to the revitaliza-
tion of areas along the tram line were recognized with the award of a certificate of appreciation from Toyama 
Light Rail at its fifth-year anniversary in April 2011.
Fuji Xerox Art Space was relocated from the Tokyo 
Midtown headquarters to the Yokohama Minato-mirai 
office in May 2010. It exhibits to the public Fuji Xerox 
Print Collection as common property of society. The 
number of visitors following its relocation was 2,546 for 
2010. We will continue to provide a place for local resi-
dents and others to enjoy world-class artwork, to pro-
mote understanding of art and culture, and contribute 
to society through art.Thirteenth Annual Volunteer Work Program  
for afforestation in ChinaThe mystery of light explained to junior high 
and high school students
Supporting the Fifth Minami-aso Ehon No Kuni  
Anniversary Festival
Cultivating the minds of the next generation 
with the Kids’ ISO ProgramContributing to society through  
American footballImproving townscapes through greater communication with local residents
Relocation of Fuji Xerox Art Space
Toyama Light Rail and flowerbeds
Ben Shahn “Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge” exhibition
Working together since 2004, I feel that the Fujifilm 
Group has made efforts in implementing various social contribution initiatives through business activities that support their main line of business, which is culture. I 
hope that these medium- and long-term plans will be 
addressed through these activities and more advanced communication be taken with stakeholders. Our activi-ties are expanding from Japan into parts of Asia as well. What exactly is the quality of life that can corre-spond to the various cultures in Asia? We can contem-plate this question together and link it to the expansion 
of social contribution activities.
Supporting cultural activities 
around the world
Ms. Naoko Yoshino 
Executive Director
NPO Kyozon no Mori Network VOICESocial Contribution Activities: Contributing as a Corporate Citizen46 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 47Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
The Fujifilm Group adopts a common corporate philoso-
phy and a common vision, and states these concretely in 
the Group’s “Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code 
of Conduct.” We specify our approach to CSR (corpo-
rate social responsibility) in this way so that all employees 
can consider and implement CSR in their daily work. In 
order to concretize the belief that we should contribute 
to the sustainable development of society by implement-
ing our corporate philosophy and realizing our vision 
through sincere and fair business operations, we set up, 
for each business, guidelines pertaining to the environ-
ment, contributions to society, biodiversity conservation, 
procurement, product quality, and occupational health 
and safety and we strive to follow them. We will con-
tinue to share the concept of CSR and our values within 
the Group and strengthen CSR governance.For the smooth operation of the entire Group’s CSR ac-tivities, the Fujifilm Group established the CSR Committee 
chaired by the President of FUJIFILM Holdings in 2006. 
The Committee takes decisions to promote the CSR ac-
tivities of the entire Group.
 The CSR Department of FUJIFILM Holdings, which is 
the Secretariat of the CSR Committee, is responsible for ensuring rigorous CSR management by the Fujifilm 
Group. The CSR Department prepares the ground for 
various activities, makes relevant decisions, communi-
cates with stakeholders, supports the CSR activities of 
Group companies, and audits the CSR activities of the 
entire Group. The CSR department in each Group com-
pany prepares and implements plans for CSR activities, 
strengthens governance by ensuring rigorous compli-
ance and management of risks, communicates with 
stakeholders, and reports on activities to the FUJIFILM 
Holdings CSR Committee. The Group as a whole en-
gages in CSR activities, following the PDCA cycle.
As business becomes ever more globalized, it is neces-
sary to identify constant risks and improve business 
processes in order to keep fulfilling our social responsi-
bilities which form the basis of our corporate philoso-
phy. Aiming to increase the quality of all our operations, 
Fujifilm and its Group companies have standardized 
business processes and utilized an IMS* to continu-
ously make improvements while using the PDCA cycle. 
With the IMS, we can improve the quality of opera-
tions, reduce negative impacts on the environment, 
and implement effective measures through removing 
inefficiency that would arise under multiple manage-
ment systems, and evaluating our actions from the 
standpoint of stakeholders.The Fujifilm Group created the Group Procurement Policy in October 2009 and evolved CSR-compatible procurement processes by adding social issue-related 
check points, such as corporate ethics, compliance, hu-man rights, occupational health and safety, and social 
contribution activities, to the check points for corporate environmental assessment used in our green procure-
ment procedures which were introduced in 2000. In 2010, we asked 36 vendors to complete an online 
survey for self-checking CSR compatibility. It is our in-
tention that by responding to the survey, vendors will 
deepen their understanding of our approach to CSR. Based on the survey results, we send an assessment re-
port that points out each vendor’s risks and issues to be improved, and request the vendors to improve certain 
aspects while maintaining others. In this way, we reduce CSR-related risks and raise the level of CSR management 
for the entire supply chain. To promote fair and open procurement for the entire supply chain, we will con-
tinue to reexamine the questions on the survey and in-crease the number of respondents.
 The term “procurement” in this policy refers to not 
only procurement of parts and materials used in prod-
ucts, but also procurement of indirect materials and vari-
ous other transactions including the purchase of services 
for maintaining and managing equipment.Fujifilm and its Group companies define compliance, 
which forms the basis of CSR, as taking actions that 
follow common sense and that are ethical as well as abide by the law. Together with domestic and overseas 
Group companies, we promote rigorous compliance. As a concrete measure, we have held an information 
session on compliance every year since 2003. 
Management-level employees attend an information 
session organized by the CSR Promotion Department. On returning to their divisions, they hold a meeting with 
their subordinates on compliance. In this way, all em-ployees become aware of the importance of compliance. 
In addition, seminars on compliance for management-
level employees have been continually held since 2004. 
As of 2010, approximately 130 seminars had been held 
with 4,000 attendees in total.
 The effectiveness of such educational measures is 
checked through an annual survey of employees’ aware-ness. In addition, to raise the individual employees’ 
awareness of compliance, we have them sign the decla-
ration of compliance found in the Fujifilm Group’s 
“Charter for Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct,” 
which each employee carries. Information on compli-
ance, sexual harassment, and help lines is also distributed 
in the form of a wallet-sized card so that employees can 
consult with someone at any time.Policies and Rigorous CSR Management Based on the PDCA CycleManagement System
CSR Concept of the Fujiﬁlm Group The Fujiﬁlm Group’s CSR promotion system
Using an integrated management system to 
improve operational processesCSR-compatible procurement to grow and make improvements with vendorsPromoting rigorous compliance at Fujiﬁlm  
and its Group companies as a whole
Fujiﬁlm Group Policies and Value System
The Fujiﬁlm Group’s CSR promotion systemFujifilm Group Corporate Philosophy and Vision
Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavio r
and Code of Conduct
The Fujifilm Group’ s Approach to CSR
Fujifilm Group Green P olicy
(Environmental P olicy)
Adopted July 2008
Fujifilm Group Social Contribution P olicy
Adopted April 2008
Fujifilm Group Guidelines for Biodiversity
Adopted June 2009
Fujifilm Group Procurement P olicy
Adopted October 2009
Fujifilm Group Quality P olicy
Adopted January 2010
Fujifilm Group Occupational Health 
and Safety P olicy
Adopted January 2010FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
FUJIFILM
Corpor ationOper ating Companie sShared Services Compan y
Fuji Xero x
Co., Ltd.Toyama
Chemical
Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM
Business
Expert
Corpor ationCSR Committee 
Secretariat (CSR division of 
FUJIFILM Holdings) 
function
• Apply policies and 
strategic objectives  
(determined by the 
CSR Committee  
across the entire  
Fujifilm Group)
• Implement and 
manage progress of  
priority issues and 
initiatives as  
determined by the 
CSR Committee  
across the Fujifilm  
Grou p
• Support the Fujifilm  
Group's CSR activities  
(collect information 
and conduct analysis  
and ev aluation) 
• Promote public  
information 
disclosure and 
dialogues with 
stakeholders
• Audit the Fujiﬁlm 
Group’ s CSR activitiesCSR Committee
For CSR-related items of the Fujifilm Group:
• Delibe rate and decide basic policies
• Delibe rate and decide priority issues and initiative s
Chairman: President of FUJIFILM Holdings
CSR departments of the
operating companies
To fulﬁll CSR:
• Formulate and implement CSR activity pla n
• Ensure thorough compliance and conduct 
risk management
• Promote communication with stak eholders
• Report CSR measures to FUJIFILM Holding’ s 
CSR CommitteeFujiﬁlm Group Compliance Statement
In all aspects of our corporate activities, we emphasize com-
pliance and endeavor to create new value. If compliance re-quirements conflict with business profits or the demands of 
third parties, we give priority to compliance. An open, fair, 
and clear corporate culture is the basis for all our activities.
Basic procurement concepts
As a responsible member of the international community, the 
Fujifilm Group seeks to contribute to the development of soci-ety and the enhancement of quality of life of people through-
out the world by providing top-quality products and services. 
In order to achieve these objectives, we perform procurement activities based on the following basic concepts. Since 2004, Fujifilm and Group companies have 
been joining the IMS step by step, and as of March 
2011, almost all domestic organizations had already 
joined it. We intend to integrate standards further and 
to continue promote IMS-related activities focused on 
business performance.
*  Integrated Management System: A management system that unifies multiple management systems used 
to deal with product quality, the environment, occupational health and safety, information security, and other issues.Our goal is to contribute to the sustainable development of society by implementing our corporate 
philosophy and realizing our vision through sincere and fair business operations. To this end, we strive 
to improve product in all aspects of our business.
Please visit the following website for details on the Procurement Policy.
  http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/vision/procure.html URL48 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 49Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
Fujifilm strives to develop human resources strategically 
in order to realize sustainable development of the com-
pany. The basic approach that we take in this effort is to 
create a virtuous circle: people grow through their work 
experiences; their growth brings them opportunities to 
work on more valuable projects; and experiences gained 
in such projects lead to further personal growth. To cre-
ate such a virtuous circle, we class our employees ac-
cording to seniority and qualification—young employees, mid-level employees, and management-level employ-
ees—and provide training to help them acquire the 
mental and business skills needed for their class of work. We also encourage our employees to develop their skills 
through work, by offering programs for different occu-pational types (engineering and administration) that are 
designed to strengthen their expertise. In addition to such programs, in order to prepare 
our employees for further globalization of our business, 
we created in 2010 not only programs for an orientation 
seminar in which newly hired employees develop skills for debating in English and asserting their opinions, but 
also seminars for mid-level employees where they re-
ceive task formation and driving skills training. Through 
these seminars and programs, OJT*, and employees’ 
self-improvement, we seek to have an ideal workforce.
 In addition, we actively employ people with differ-
ent experiences, of different nationalities, and retire-ment-age workers and offer regular employee status to 
non-regular employees, which contribute to our diverse 
workforce. Employees with different backgrounds influ-
ence one another: this also leads to improving their 
mind and business skills.
*On-the-job trainingAt Fujifilm, we aim to train our employees to become strong individuals who can survive in today’s global society, and 
various efforts have already begun to achieve this goal.
 Fujifilm encourages all its employees to adapt to 
globalization and is planning to implement two mea-sures to improve their skills in order to accelerate global 
expansion of our business. First, we plan to create and 
improve mechanisms for promoting self-improvement 
and seminar programs so that each employee can gain 
the skills, including language skills, needed for global 
business. We have also strengthened a self-improvement 
program in which all participants aim to score 600 points 
or more on the TOEIC English examination, and have begun expanding or creating new seminars intended for 
training the skills needed for global business or training candidates for overseas work. These seminars are avail-
able to all employees who want to attend. 
 Besides the seminars, we are creating mechanisms 
to increase the number of employees with experience in overseas business, by operating “short-term theme” 
dispatch programs that range in duration from 1 month 
to 1 year, such as the International Trainee Program and 
the Short-term Overseas Dispatch Program. We admin-
ister these programs based on a plan which takes into 
account each employee’s personal training plan and 
each department’s training policy. These overseas dis-
patch programs are considered to increase opportunities 
for global interactions among employees and strengthen 
the capability of the Fujifilm Group as a whole.Fuji Xerox implements various measures for human re-
source development to enable individual employees to 
acquire greater skills independently and autonomously, 
and build a career from which they can recognize their 
own growth. Each year, employees are given an oppor-
tunity to create a “career development sheet” and think 
about their own career path. By developing their own 
multiphase growth path, they become more aware of 
their goals and start to efficiently acquire the skills nec-
essary for their work.
 In 2010, we revised the system for human resource 
development which is also in effect in other Group compa-nies, reexamined the systems for human resource develop-ment for different occupational types, and established a 
system for promoting human resource development.
As the Chinese market grows and our customers rapidly 
increase their overseas expansion, it becomes imperative 
that we develop the skills of our employees so they can 
conduct business globally. In 2010, Fuji Xerox strength-
ened its overseas business training program, which has 
been in place since 1974. We used to have only an 
18-month course consisting of 6 months of language 
training and 1 year of work experience, but from 2011, 
a 30-month course for employees in sales will be intro-
duced. This course will not only strengthen employees’ 
cross-cultural skills, which are difficult to develop during 
a short-term program, but also develop the sales-related 
skills necessary for supporting our customers’ global 
expansion. Also, in 2011, the number of employees sent 
abroad under the overseas business training program 
will be increased. We will continue to provide our em-
ployees with opportunities to gain overseas experience 
and increase the number of internationally minded per-
sonnel in the Group.Human Resource Development at Fujiﬁlm Developing globally oriented human 
resources at FujiﬁlmSystem for human resource development  
at Fuji Xerox
Developing globally oriented human resources 
at Fuji Xerox
The ideal human resources at FujiﬁlmHuman resource development pursued by Fuji Xerox
• Grasp the facts and essence 
of the issue= ability to collect information
• Exercise initiative, 
accelerate the pace of work 
and act quickly= ability to act; 
hands-on approach• Be interested in others, behave 
thoughtfully and gain 
understanding from others= conscience, interest, 
empathy, and warmth• Fully express and communicate 
one’s own ideas= ability to express 
and discuss• Grasp the essence of an issue 
and develop winning strategies and tacticsHead (Brain)
= analyze and formulate 
strategies and tactics
• Determination with courage; 
just get started, then push throughGuts and Stomach
= courage, audacity, and guts• Improve techniques and 
skills and as necessary, 
exercise powerArms and hands
= techniques and skills, exercise 
power plays as necessary• Develop personal 
presentation capabilities and 
burnish your characterFace and Posture
= posture, attitude, intelligence, 
and attractive personality
Heart
Legs and HipsMouthEyes, ears, nose, skin and sixth senseIdeal Model
Corporate management focuses on allowing each and every employee, the source of our company’s competitiveness and value generation, 
to exercise his or her potential within a workforce that can think and act proactively to enhance Fuji Xerox’s corporate quality.
Global Personnel SystemAppointment, appraisal, and remuneration based
on the new role-based personnel and remuneration systemHR system reform, productivity,
organizational flexibility, speedService business, globalization, technology,
production, succession planningHuman resource development, the Fuji Xerox Way,
corporate culture, CSR, diversity
Real Change
Leader
Fair and
Just HR System
Reinforcement of
Corporate Strength
Management
and Leadership
Personal Growth
Management EmployeeLong-term
Short-term
Global business skills training
Name of seminar Target Content
Global communication 
skills trainingAll applicantsE-mail, report, presentation, negotiation, etc. in English
Lecture on global 
standardsAll applicants Approaches to global standards
Basic international business skills trainingCandidates for overseas dispatchLanguage skills, debating, business skills, business mindset, short-term training
International management trainingCandidates for international managementLearning marketing, finance, strategy, organizational management, etc. in English
Overseas manager trainingCandidates for overseas managersDeveloping mindset and skills necessary for managing an overseas company  (M&A, finance, liberal arts knowledge, etc.)Priorities in developing globally oriented  
human resources
-  Strengthening education for departments that 
particularly need to provide global responses
Developing a mindset necessary for conducting business (es-
pecially for (selected) core employees for global business); trial seminars for developing communication skills necessary 
for smooth business operation (presentation skills, business 
writing skills, etc.)
-  Improving global business capabilities of young 
employees as a whole
Creating educational programs incorporating global view-
points for the Seminar for New Employees held by Fuji Xerox 
and domestic Group companies as a whole and for the third-year and fifth-year seminars for common training
-  Strengthening the global business capabilities of 
leaders of the next generation
Offering a seminar to develop the mindset and skills needed 
for managing teams composed of members from various 
nationalities and cultures and with different experiences, 
which is offered to (selected) managers anticipated to be-come future executives
-  Improving management and business skills at 
overseas Group companies
Creating a mechanism for training multinational or multire-
gional leaders of the next generation and strengthening 
problem-solving as well as sales management capabilities at 
overseas Group companies responsible for sales; creating an evaluation framework based on a program for improving 
management and product quality (Japan Quality Program) In 2011, we will also start inviting employees from 
Fuji Xerox (China) Limited and Fuji Xerox Korea Co., Ltd. 
to work with us. This initiative to work with overseas 
Group companies employees is intended not only to 
train international visiting employees, but also to im-
prove the global business capabilities of the departments 
that accept them.
Within the Fujifilm Group’s management system, 
I would like to give my opinion on their human re-source development. Given the current situation where the Fujifilm Group has more than 50% of their 
sales outside Japan, the importance of communication 
and exchange between employees in Japan and other parts of the world is higher than ever. In the age where international human resources have now become more globalized, there is an urgent need for Japanese companies to develop human resources on a much larger scale.
Aim in developing true globally 
oriented human resources
Mr. Toshiya Banno
Director of Strategy
Booz & Company Inc.VOICE50 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 51Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
Fujifilm is continually improving its website from a 
global perspective so that domestic and overseas 
stakeholders can understand about Fujifilm and Group 
companies fully and easily.
 The websites of the Group companies in various 
countries used to be created and administered individually, but since 2006, we have promoted global website man-
agement and these websites have now been unified under 
the global website. This has led to the streamlining of the 
Fujifilm Group’s message and has enabled us to dissemi-
nate the same information in 39 languages in 67 countries 
and regions. This marks an important step toward spread-
ing the Fujifilm Group brand further. We will continue to 
improve not only access from the global website to web-
sites for individual countries, but also the user interface so 
that users can quickly reach the information they want.
At Fujifilm, we have developed medical X-ray film since 
the company’s establishment in 1934. We have also 
made significant contributions to improving health care 
quality and efficiency in diagnostic imaging since 1981 
when we announced the world’s first system that digi-
tized X-ray images. In recent years, the needs of clinics in 
emerging countries to digitize diagnostic X-ray images 
have increased. In response to such needs, we introduced 
FCR PRIMA.* This reflects our commitment to excellent 
image quality, which is crucial for a diagnostic imaging 
system as it affects the life of the patient. Intended for use 
in clinics, this imaging system is small, inexpensive, and 
easy to operate. It was first released for BRICs and other 
emerging countries in May 2009, but it was also well re-
ceived in Japan, the United States, and Europe. The 
number of systems currently installed is 8,000. Our target Fujifilm had a booth at Arab Health (the largest general 
health care trade show in the Middle East and Africa) 
which was held in Dubai from January 24 to 27, 2011. 
We exhibited a wide range of our medical system-relat-
ed products and services to more than 65,000 visitors 
and tried to expand our distribution network to poten-
tial customers in emerging countries with growing 
markets, such as India and Middle Eastern and African countries. Also, the day before the opening of Arab 
Health, we invited our distribution agents operating in the Middle Eastern and African regions to an agent 
meeting. Employees from local companies as well as employees visiting from the Tokyo headquarters par-
ticipated in the meeting and emphasized the impor-
tance of raising the level of awareness to respond to 
changing customer needs while showing the company’s 
seriousness toward emerging country markets. The 
meeting created a lot of team spirit among these 
members of the Fujifilm Group.The FUJIFILM North America Corporation office and 
distribution facility in Oahu, Hawaii recently completed the installation of a 1,455 module photo voltaic solar 
panel system. The solar installation will produce 483,391 kWh annually, which is equivalent to reducing 
CO
2 emissions by 1.11 million lbs per year or powering 
66 households per year.  It’s also one of the top ten 
solar panel installations on the island of Oahu.  The 
FUJIFILM North America Corporation Hawaii facility 
was chosen for the first installation due to the abun-
dance of sunshine in the state, and to the fact that 
Hawaii has the highest electricity rates in the United 
States, as 90% of Hawaii’s energy comes from im-
ported petroleum.
 The custom-designed system will provide virtually 
all the electricity needed to power the facility and will substantially reduce electricity costs. The facility will 
also take advantage of the utilities net energy metering 
program, where Fujifilm will put excess electricity gen-
erated back into the grid, resulting in retail credit.  
Most electricity meters accurately record electricity 
flow in both directions, allowing a no-cost method of 
effectively managing overflow electricity production.
 Globally, Fujifilm has a greenhouse gas target set 
at 30% reduction in CO
2 emissions by FY2020, as 
compared to 2005. This project will reduce the green-
house gas footprint of FUJIFILM North America Corporation by 1.85 %, and serves as a good example 
of activities being undertaken in North America to 
meet the global and local targets for CO
2 reduction.
 “This project began in response to a corporate mis-
sion of energy conservation and greenhouse gas reduc-
tion, but it also will help us realize significantly reduced 
energy costs, and make the facility virtually energy inde-
pendent,” said Ray Hosoda, president and CEO, FUJIFILM 
North America Corporation. “With the urgency and 
concern about saving the environment and resources, 
this project is especially important to Fujifilm as we do 
our part in helping to preserve the lush, beautiful sur-
roundings in which we work and live.”At Fuji Xerox, we are strengthening the environmental and CSR activities of distribution companies in 12 
countries and regions in Asia. As part of this effort, each distribution company certifies employees who 
understand marketing and are well informed on envi-ronmental issues as “CSR champions.” CSR champions 
not only share brief information on the CSR activities of Fuji Xerox, but also exchange information among 
themselves. This raises the quality of CSR activities in each company and allows us to introduce our custom-
ers to the activities of all our companies and to build stronger customer trust. We will continue to share in-
formation on our progress in CSR activities with our 
CSR champions mainly through video conferences and 
through twice-yearly face-to-face meetings.
In Australia, sustainability-related government regula-
tions have been strengthened year on year and, in the 
market, customers have been increasingly emphasizing 
sustainability as a buying motive. Fuji Xerox Australia 
has not only improved its CSR education in its sales 
department, but has also started 2 communication 
campaigns targeting customers, entitled “The Paper 
Facts” and “Relevant, Responsible and Effective.” The former provides information on the life cycle of paper, 
which is useful in selecting different types of paper; the 
latter distributes pamphlets containing guidance for 
keeping environmental burden low in producing a 
large quantity of printed output. Results and data ob-
tained from these activities will be utilized by the CSR 
Division for solutions provided and campaigns will be 
conducted on a worldwide basis.Streamlined Group message on the global website
Contributing to improving diagnostic quality 
in clinical practice across the worldToward improving health care quality in Middle Eastern and African marketsHarnessing natural resources to reduce emissions and save company resourcesFUJIFILM North America Corporation,  
Hawaii BranchCSR Champion Program at distribution 
companies in Asia
Promoting awareness of global warming  
in Australia
is to sell a total of 40,000 small-sized systems during the 
3-year period from 2012 through 2014.
* A compact digital diagnostic X-ray imaging system; FCR stands for Fuji Computed Radiography.
Digital diagnostic imaging system for clinics
Scenes from the exhibitionInauguration ceremony with elected officials from 
the state of Hawaii (center: FNAC George Otsuka)A workshop held in Singapore
Fulfilling Social Responsibility in Overseas Markets and 
Enhancing Quality of Life through Various Businesses ActivitiesCSR Activities Overseas
We will continue with our environmentally conscious business operations and social contribution activi-ties in order to achieve sustainable development in cooperation with and through sincere communica-
tion with our stakeholders and others in various countries and regions across the world.
52 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Achievements in CSR Priority Areas
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 53It is easy to see that each business site of the Fujifilm 
Group is providing various activities based on the need of that particular region. While effective utilization of human resources is required for each region, I felt that 
careful attention and consideration were made for the 
employees and stakeholders that suited local circumstances.  It is my hope that Fujifilm, as a global company, 
will lead other Japanese companies in solving social issues, especially in the medical field, and strengthen product development outline for BRICs.
Strengthening product 
development outreach for BRICs
Mr. Hiro Motoki
Deputy Chief Executive
E-Square Inc.VOICEFuji Xerox has offered a year-long visiting fellowship pro-
gram (VFP) for graduate students, lecturers, and associate 
professors from major universities in China since 1998, 
accepting around 10 people each year. Altogether, there 
have been 112 fellowship recipients in computer science, 
mechanical engineering, and electrical engineering (19 of 
whom have been subsequently employed). The program 
started with the following objectives:
•  Industry-academia collaboration with universities in China
•  Promotion of mutual understanding through cross-
cultural communication
•  Internationalization within Fuji Xerox
•  Support for the fellowship recipients’ research and 
development work at a leading company
 However, the following aspect has since become 
significant.
• Securing of skilled engineers
 The fellowship recipients receive training in Japanese 
for 6 months and attend seminars on Japanese life, cul-
ture, and problem-solving methods: the program is de-
signed to have them deepen their understanding of 
Japan. The program also provides an opportunity for Fuji 
Xerox employees to learn about cross-cultural mutual 
understanding through cross-cultural communications 
with the fellowship recipients in research and develop-
ment work. We would like to explore ways to hire many 
capable fellowship recipients and to expand the program 
to include universities in other countries in the future.The mental health of workers has become a significant social issue in China with its rapid global-scale economic 
growth. To improve the workplace environment for 
workers in such a social environment, since 2006, Fuji 
Xerox of Shenzhen has run an employee support pro-
gram with help from NPOs and other organizations to 
eliminate cases of employees suffering from too much 
pressure or stress. Since newly hired employees who live 
in a dormitory for the first time in their life away from 
their family are especially prone to loneliness or pres-
sure, we provide educational programs and mental 
health seminars to support them. Through these pro-
grams, we provide support for resolving their concerns by listening to their thoughts. As a result, communica-
tions with employees have improved. We plan to sup-port each employee’s wish for career development by 
offering, for example, a path to factory manager or 
procurement manager.
 These efforts were introduced in a television pro-
gram by CNBC (a U.S. news broadcaster) on CSR entitled “Responsible Business” in January 2011.Promoting an internship program for securing 
skilled workers and providing employment opportunities in ChinaPromoting mental health care at Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen
Seminar for staff in Shenzhen
A cultural tour to Enoshima as part of training
Data and Information
Compliance and Risk Management ………… 54
Communication with Stakeholders,  
and the Labor Environment and  
Social Benefit Accounting …………………… 56
Communication with Customers …………… 57
Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation) … 58
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) …………… 59
The Fujifilm Group’s Environmental Burden … 60
Environmental Aspects ……………………… 62
Fujifilm Group Green Policy ………………… 66
Environmental Accounting ………………… 67
Domestic and International Appraisals …… 68This section contains basic information on the 
Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities and quantitative 
information on its personnel and labor affairs as 
well as environmental performance.54 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 55Data and Information
Compliance and Risk Management
Compliance and risk management promotional organization
(Fujifilm and its affiliates)Corporate ethics and compliance promotion system(Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
Compliance and risk management promotional milestones
Establishment of organization and system Provision of charter, code and regulations Increase in employees’ awareness and monitoring
1997 Establishment of the Code of Conduct Committee
  Establishment of Ethics Consultation Desk and Sexual 
Harassment Hotline Establishment of the Employee Code of Conduct  Release of Case Book Employee Code of Conduct
1998  Pledges submitted by all executive officers and 
division heads
1999 Establishment of Corporate Ethics Committee
  Establishment of a dedicated contact point for the 
Corporate Ethics Committee
 Pledges submitted by all managerial personnel  Establishment of the Fujifilm Group Charter for 
Corporate Behavior
 Establishment of the Employee Code of Conduct
 Revision of the Employee Code of Conduct Seminar on the Employee Code of Conduct
 Start of corporate ethics training for executive officers and managers
2000 Pledges submitted by new managerial personnel
 Start of risk reporting system 
2001 First implementation of compliance awareness survey
  Survey conducted to confirm compliance with the Employee Code of Conduct 
by each division in Fujifilm and domestic affiliates  (Implemented annually since then)
2002 Rename to Compliance Committee
 Establishment of Compliance Office in the Legal Division Revision of the Employee Code of Conduct  Start of education of ethics and information security
2003 Establishment of Compliance Consulting facility
 Start of identification and management of key risk issues
 Establishment of the Ethics and Compliance Committee
 Establishment of the Corporate Ethics Helpline Revision of the Employee Code of Conduct
  Establishment of the Ethics and Compliance 
Management Regulations Start of compliance information meeting (Implemented annually since then)
 Start of compliance awareness survey (Implemented annually since then)
 Start of release of compliance guidelines according to legal subjects
2004  Establishment of the Compliance and Risk 
Management Division  
(Reorganized Compliance Office in the Legal Division)
  Expansion of coverage of Compliance Consulting to 
domestic affiliates  Revision of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate 
Behavior
  Establishment of Rules for Operation of Compliance 
Consulting Facility
  Establishment of Rules for Operation of Corporate 
Ethics Helpline  Distribution of Compendium of Compliance Case Studies for managerial 
personnel
  Start of case method training for managerial personnel (Implemented annually 
since then for newly-appointed managerial personnel)
 Start of basic training on laws
 Start of education of the protection of personal information
2005 Establishment of external consulting facility  Revision of Compendium of Compliance Case Studies
  Start of study sessions for Compendium of Case Studies at each workplace 
(Implemented annually since then)
 Distribution of CDs for education of the protection of personal information
 Start of compliance activities at overseas bases
2006 Establishment of the FUJIFILM Holdings CSR Committee   Revision of Corporate Philosophy and establishment 
of Vision Expansion of compliance awareness survey to domestic affiliates
 Implementation of seminars for managerial personnel by external instructors
  Implementation of case method training for managerial personnel at domestic 
affiliates by external instructors
 Expansion of compliance information meeting to domestic affiliates
 Introduction of programs for preventing illegal practices
2007 Proclamation signed by all employees
  Identification and management of key risk issues 
expanded to domestic affiliates
 Proclamation signed and submitted by all employees  Revision of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate 
Behavior
  Establishment of the Fujifilm Group Code of 
Conduct
  Establishment of the ALL-FX Code of Conduct  
(Total revision of Employee Code of Conduct) Distribution of Compendium of Information Security Case Studies
  Distribution of Antimonopoly Act Compliance Manual
 Introduction of web response method for Compliance Awareness Survey
  Distribution of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and the 
Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct
  Distribution of English version of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate 
Behavior and the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct
 Distribution of the Fujifilm Group Code of Conduct Guidebook
  Implementation of education on the Fujifilm Group Charter and Code of 
Conduct for managerial personnel at overseas subsidiaries
 Start of ALL-FX Code of Conduct education
 Distribution of ALL-FX Code of Conduct and ALL-FX Code of Conduct Guidebook
2008  Status confirmation and follow-up of compliance 
promotion education in overseas Group companies
  Promotion of identifying and managing key risk 
issues in overseas Group companies
  Establishment of Compliance and Sexual Harassment 
Helpline (Compliance Consulting Facility and Sexual 
Harassment Hotline are integrated)
  Establishment of ALL-FX Compliance Helpline 
(Corporate Ethics Helpline and Sexual Harassment 
Hotline are integrated)  Establishment of Rules for Operation of All-FX 
Compliance Helpline
  Establishment of Rules for Operation of 
Consulting Facility Implementation of ethics and compliance awareness survey
2009  Release of revised Compendium of Information Security Case Studies
2010  Establishment of CSR Committee  
(Formerly Risk and Ethics Committee)  Introduction of e-learning regarding overall compliance issues  
(for newly-appointed managerial personnel)
 FUJIFILM Corporation  Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.  FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationCompliance education (Fujifilm in Japan)
Intended audience Frequency Details
Top management (Fujifilm) As appropriate Overall compliance (by external instructors)
Executive officers of Fujifilm affiliates Once a year Overall compliance (by external instructors)
Managerial personnel (Fujifilm and its affiliates) Once every two years (Case method training) Business ethics, customer-orientation, confidential information management, etc.  
(by external instructors and CP & RM*)
Once a year (Compliance information meeting) Examples of corporate misconduct, punitive actions, consulting facility, risk reporting system, 
etc. (by CP & RM*)
New managerial personnel (Fujifilm) Once a year Overall compliance (by corporate executive officers in charge of CSR)
All employees  
(Fujifilm and its affiliates, including agency contract employees)Once a year Discussions based on compliance case studies (by managerial personnel)
New employees (Fujifilm) Once a year Basic knowledge of compliance, employee code of conduct, corporate rule, consulting facility, etc. (by CP & RM*)
* CP & RM: Compliance & Risk Management Division of FUJIFILM Corporation
Compliance education (Fuji Xerox in Japan)
Training namesIntended audience (Fuji Xerox and its affiliates)
Content of education Executive 
officersManagersGeneral 
employeesContract 
employeesOther 
employeesPersonnel in 
charge of 
promotion
Education on the ALL-FX 
Code of ConductTraining to explain details of each code of conduct using specific cases 
(individual and group education)
New executive officer 
trainingGroup training on corporate law and corporate governance, etc.
New administrator training Training on overall risk management related to management
Basic training on laws: WBT 
(Web-based Training)Training on basic legal knowledge (4 areas) utilizing the Internet
Training for personnel in 
charge of promotionTraining for key person to deliver new system and training in 
divisions and affiliates
Training on information security: WBT Basic training related to information security utilizing the Internet
Training on personal 
information protection:WBTTraining utilizing the Internet on issues to be aware of regarding 
Personal Information Protection Law
Acquisition of P-Mark and ISMS
Certification Certified affiliates
P-Mark* 1FUJIFILM Medical Co., Ltd./ FUJIFILM IMAGING Co., Ltd./ FUJIFILM LOGISTICS CO., LTD./ FUJIFILM Techno Service Co., Ltd./ Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd./  
Fuji Xerox Learning Institute Inc. 
ISMS* 2FUJIFILM Graphic Systems Co., Ltd./ FUJIFILM Software Co., Ltd./ Fuji Xerox Office Services Business Group/ Fuji Xerox Business & Supply Chain Innovation Unit/  Fuji Xerox Sales & Marketing, Broadband Business Development Unit/ Fuji Xerox domestic sales representative and sales companies/ Fuji Xerox System Service Co., Ltd./ Fuji Xerox Interfield Co., Ltd./ Fuji Xerox Prefectural Dealers 11 companies (12 offices)/Fuji Xerox of Shanghai Limited/ Fuji Xerox Korea Company Limited
*1 Privacy Mark (P-Mark): A mark granted by the Japan Information Processing Development Corporation (JIPDEC) to companies in which personal information is handled appropriately.
*2 ISMS: Certification regarding the overall management framework for information including personal information (Information Security Management System).Total Risk
Management Committee
Roles:
1. Prevention of the actualization and 
expansion of risks
2. Undertaking prepar atory measures
3. Implementation of preventive 
activities
Chairman:  President
• Vice chairman:
Executive officer responsible for 
CSR management
• Regular committee members:
Executive officer responsible for 
consolidated corpor ate 
management
Executive officer responsible for 
gener al administr ation
Executive officer responsible for 
legal affairs
Executive officer responsible for PRCompliance Committee
Roles:
1. Dissemination of the Fujifilm Group 
Charter for Corpor ate Behavior 
and Code of Conduct
2. Follow-up to the dissemination of 
the Code of Conduct
3. Response to violations to the Code 
of Conduct
Chairman:  President
• Vice chairman:
Executive Officer responsible for 
CSR management
• Regular committee members:
Executive officer responsible for 
consolidated corpor ate management
Executive officer responsible for 
personnel
Executive officer responsible for 
gener al administr ation
Executive officer responsible for 
legal affairsCSR Division
Compliance and
Risk Management
Division
Office
Gener al Manager of Compliance 
and Risk Management DivisionOffice
Gener al Manager of Compliance 
and Risk Management DivisionGener al Manager
of Compliance and
Risk Management
DivisionBoard of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors
Organization of Fuji Xerox and its affiliatesHuman Resources Department Legal Affairs Department General Affairs DepartmentEthics and
Compliance CommitteeCSR CouncilBusiness execution
(President )Internal Audit &
Analysis Department
System to collect information on risk (Fujifilm) Risk management system (Fuji Xerox)
* External compliance consulting facility is set up for employees in cases where , for whatever the reason,  
they feel they cannot directly report to company or supervisor,  even if they find risk-related information.  
The Group implements follow-up inspections once every 6 months.Employees of Fujifilm Employees of Fujifilm affiliates
Supervisor Supervisor
General Manager of Supervising Division
in FujifilmPresidents of Fujifilm affiliates
Office of Total Risk Management Committee
(Gener al Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
Office of Compliance Committeee
(Gener al Manager of Compliance and Risk Management Division)
Compliance and Risk Management Division
Compliance consulting facility
Compliance and 
Risk Management DivisionExternal compliance
consulting facility*Compliance consulting facility
Set up at each 
Fujifilm affiliate
Employees of Fujifilm Employees of Fujifilm affiliatesPresident
Corporate Executiv e
Committee
General Affair s
Department of 
the Secretariat
CSR Department
Human Resources
Headquarter s
Corporate Strategy
DepartmentCSR Council
Risk Management
CommitteeEthics and
Compliance
CommitteeInformation
Security Liaison
Grou p
Legal Department
of the SecretariatSecretariat
General Affair s
Department56 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 57Data and Information
Communication with Stakeholders, and the Labor Environment 
and Social Beneﬁt Accounting
Communication with stakeholders Labor environment and social benefit accounting
Employees
Employees play a central role in the promotion of the Fujifilm Group’s CSR 
activities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Consultation Desks in the Personnel Department and personnel inter-
views; Compliance and Sexual Harassment Helpline; Labor union and regular company meetings; Stakeholder dialogue; Awareness surveys related to making work more satisfying
Suppliers
Our suppliers are important partners who assist us in continuing to offer 
products that reﬂect proper regard for safety and the natural environment.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Procurement Division (for responding to inquiries); FUJIFILM Business 
Expert (for responding to inquiries); Ecology and Quality Management Division (for responding to inquiries); Information meetings for suppliers (green procurement, management of chemical content) and corporate envi-
ronmental survey; Periodic discussion meetings with our suppliers; Operating a materials procurement website
Local communities
We believe that symbiosis with local communities and preservation of the 
natural environment are key elements of our CSR initiatives, especially at product manufacturing sites. We, therefore, actively promote communication 
with local communities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Consultation Desks at each of our factories and offices (for responding 
to inquiries); Meetings related to environmental policy; Factory visits; Volunteer activities in local communi-ties; Lectures and information meetings for community members; Periodic discussions with local govern-
ments (municipal governments and mayors, leaders of local government organizations, and others)
Shareholders and investors
We are constantly aware of the need to promote a proper understanding of 
the Company’s value, and work to provide timely disclosure of investor rela-tions (IR) information both in Japan and overseas.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: IR Office (for responding to inquiries); Information meetings for investors 
and visits with investors; Shareholder meetings; IR information section on the company website
Transaction partners
Our transaction partners are vital to our efforts to create new value, 
and we work closely with them and support them in the development 
of new products.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Sales companies and marketing/sales divisions (for responding to inquiries); 
Periodic discussions with our transaction partners; Seeking advice in the creation of new products and materials and participating in joint development activities; Participating in exhibitions, events, and academic meetings
NGOs and NPOs
We provide continuing support for NGOs and NPOs that engage in educational 
and awareness activities for environmental conservation.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Corporate General Administration Division (for responding to inquiries); CSR 
Division (for responding to inquiries); Secretariat of the Public Trust Fujifilm Green Fund; Stakeholder dialogue
Customers
Reﬂecting the opinions and requests of customers in our products, services, and corpo-
rate activities is one of the most important issues for a manufacturing company.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Customers Communication Center (for responding to inquiries); Fujifilm 
Square (showroom); Technical Support Centers; Service Centers; Usability evaluations, advice on produc-tion development, preparation of user reports, and other activities; CS survey, VOC system, Photo contests, photo exhibitions, and photography classes; Events, exhibitions, and seminars
Future generations
We believe that one of our most vital social responsibilities is to conduct edu-
cational activities for the coming generations who will be responsible for the 
future of our planet. Consequently, we are placing special emphasis on edu-
cational support activities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Providing instructors for school courses and participating in events held 
in schools; Sponsoring factory visits as part of extracurricular and other activities; Working with NGOs in environmental education activities
Industrial associations, government organizations, and business partners
We are actively communicating and cooperating with industry groups to respond 
to laws and ordinances such as the RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Participating in the creation of industry guidelines; Making statements 
to the public through industrial associations; Pink Ribbon Campaign, joint research with hospitals and universities, and sponsoring of lecturesExpenditures made for improving working conditions and for socially beneficial 
activities for different stakeholders are summarized here. Efforts are made to 
create a worker-friendly environment through expanding educational semi-nars, ensuring the safety of facilities and equipment, and supporting mental 
healthcare programs. The expenditures on promoting culture and the arts in 
society include expenses incurred by Fujifilm Square, which preserves and disseminates photographic culture, and running photo contests. Contributions 
to the international community include relief materials, such as clothes and 
tools for protection against the cold, which were provided when a major 
earthquake struck China’s Qinghai Province in April 2010.
 The survey for the last fiscal year lacks information on some Group companies 
because of the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred in March 2011.
Period covered
Fiscal year 2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011)
Range of information sourcesThe 69 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, FUJIFILM 
Corporation and 19 affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 46 affiliates, and Toyama Chemical)Basic items
Objectives of labor environment and social benefit accounting
These accounts allow the Fujifilm Group to maintain its activities for improving 
employees’ working environments and the amounts spent for social contribu-
tions, by preparing data on these activities from an economic perspective.Accounting method
The expenditures (including investments) for the year have been summed to 
arrive at the figures shown. These figures do not include depreciation. Figures 
for personnel training and social contributions may overlap with figures in the 
Environmental Account.
Breakdown of labor environment and social benefit accounting 
 
(million yen)
Stakeholder GoalTotal costs
Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
EmployeesHealth and safety 1,540 1,197
Personnel training 1,112 2,449
Protecting diversity 1,976 339
Creating comfortable workplaces 1,569 1,381
CustomersAppropriate customer response  
and safety572 459
Future generations Education for future generations 5 1
Local communities 
and governmentHarmony with local communities 122 78
Promoting culture and the arts  
in society (Japan) 1,221 963
International 
communityConsiderations for the international community and international cultures105 29
NGOs, NPOs Cooperating with NGOs, NPOs 56 33
Suppliers Considerations for products 51 67
Total 8,329 6,996
Volunteer activities during working hours
Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Hours spent on volunteer activities 2,236 hours 1,372 hours
Volunteering costs 5 million yen 4 million yen
*  Calculated based on the hours spent on volunteer activities (e.g. area clean-ups) during working hours, 
the salary equivalent to those hours, and the cost of the activitiesCommunication with Customers
System for responding to customers (FUJIFILM Corporation and its domestic affiliates)
System for responding to customers (Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates)ISO 10002 (International Standard for Complaints Handling Management Systems)
Customers’
opinions
InquiriesInteractive
Communication
Number of customer inquiries:  
Around 490,000  inquiries
per yearLetters, telephone calls,
e-mails, company visits ,
and in retail outletsRequests
Proposals
RemarksConsideration
Reports FeedbackDivision headsTop management
Consideration by
relevant divisions
Mark eting 
and sales
Design
R&DReﬂecting customers’
opinions
Improving products 
and services
Adopting new products 
and services
Back to
“Customers’ opinions”Consultation facility (only B to C)
Customers Communication Center:  Around 30  staff
Call Center for the Healthcare Laboratory:  Around 40  staff
Technical Support Center: Around 50  staff
Service Station / 5 service centers in J apan:  Around 120  staff
Domestic marketing divisions , Domestic sales companiesThe Customers Communication Center manages information such as 
comments and inquiries from customers in a database
Customer s
Person in charge (sale s, CE, SE)
Information Center 
(gener al contact)Telephone Center
(machine maintenance)Customer Supply Center
(consumables)1. Comparisons 
    with competitors
2. User satisfactionInternal research division,
Research ﬁrmsMail/ e-mail
Fuji Xerox Customer Maintenance Delivery CS surveys on:Phone/ e-mail
Approx.
24,000  inquiriesApprox.
2.44  million
calls/e-mailsApprox.
2.98  million
calls/e-mailsApprox.
68,000  responsesMacroeconomic
market trend studiesVarious market researches
Implement
on-a-necessary-basisVOC (V oice of Customer) system
A comprehensive system for
collecting customers’ opinionsVOC
Approx.
378,000  voices
Self-declaration of conformity to ISO 10002 (Fujifilm and its affiliates)
Created in July 2004, ISO 10002 is the international standard for the pro-
cess of complaints handling. The specification is intended to be used by 
various organizations and provides guidance on the process of handling 
customer complaints against companies and other organizations. Fujifilm and 4 of its affiliates engaged in the domestic imaging business 
made a self-declaration of conformity* to ISO 10002 on August 24, 2006 with the goal of gaining trust from customers and increasing their satisfac-
tion. On September 30, 2008, Fujifilm and 2 of its affiliates in the domestic 
healthcare business also made the same self-declaration. In 2010, an administrative office was created to promote ISO 10002, 
which led to a reexamination of the definition of top management of the relevant divisions and the items on a self-checklist for ISO conformity. 
Through such activities, the office encourages the relevant divisions to 
decide their policy on customer-centric handling of complaints, to always 
send necessary information to other relevant divisions, to regularly con-
firm their process of complaint handling, and to provide necessary edu-cational training.  Fujifilm and its affiliates will continue to further improve the quality of 
customer service and the level of customer satisfaction.
*  Self-declaration of conformity: ISO 10002 provides guidelines with which organizations themselves 
build a system conforming to the specification and declare conformity based on their own decisions and responsibilities, whereas ISO 9001 on product quality and ISO 14001 on environmental manage-
ment are international standards that are certified by a third-party approval organization. It is required 
that organizations continually increase the level of conformity to the specification through their actual operation of the system and internal inspections.
Relevant divisions for 2010
Fujifilm
(1) Consumer Sales Division, (2) Imaging Division, (3) Electronic Imaging 
Products Division, (4) Recording Media Products Division, (5) Life Science 
Products  Division, (6) Customer Communication Center
Fujifilm’s affiliates(1) FUJIFILM Techno Service, (2) FUJIFILM Healthcare Laboratory, (3) 
FUJIFILM Imaging Solutions, (4) FUJIFILM Imagetec, (5) Fujicolor Pro 
Photo Center58 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 59Data and Information
Personnel and Labor (FUJIFILM Corporation)
Composition of the Fujifilm workforce As of March 31, 2011
Regular employees 8,444Breakdown
General employees: 6,672 (Male: 5,409, Female: 1,263)
Managerial personnel: 1,772
 (Male: 1,746, Female: 26)
Non-regular employees 781Breakdown
Temporary employees: 588, Part-timers: 24,  
Employees re-employed after retirement: 97,  
Other (Contract employees, etc.): 72Composition of the Fuji Xerox workforce As of March 31, 2011
Regular employees 10,146Breakdown
General employees: 7,641
 (Male: 6,370, Female: 1,271)
Managerial personnel: 2,417
 (Male: 2,347, Female: 70)Executive officers, contract employees, seconded employees: 88
Non-regular employees 1,195BreakdownTemporary employees: 480, Part-timers: 190,  Employees re-employed after retirement: 524,  
Other (Contract employees, etc.): 1
Status of regular employees As of March 31, 2011
Average 
ageAverage length 
of employment 
(years)Average 
number of 
dependentsAverage 
annual 
salary*1Utilization 
of paid 
leave*2Turnover 
rate*3
41.6Male: 17.8
Female: 18.71.4 8.3 million yen 72.2% 2.4%
*1  Average annual salary is calculated for the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. 
*2  Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period from October 1, 2009  
to September 30, 2010.
*3  Turnover rate:  Numerator: Attrition + Retirement + Transfer + New Start for Senior Employees program 
(excluding voluntary retirement due to structural reform)   
Denominator: Annual average number of employees at FUJIFILM Corporation (non-consolidated)Status of regular employees As of March 31, 2011
Average 
ageAverage length 
of employment 
(years)Average 
number of 
dependentsAverage 
annual 
salary*1Utilization 
of paid 
leave*2Turnover 
rate*3
43.8Male: 19.8
Female: 15.01.33 – yen 61.3% 3.43%
*1 Average annual salary is not publicly disclosed.
*2  Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period from October 1, 2009 to September 30, 2010.
*3  Turnover rate:  
Numerator: Attrition + Fixed-age retirement + Transfer + New Start for Senior Employees program  
Denominator: Annual average number of employees at Fuji Xerox (non-consolidated) + Average number 
of seconded employees
Composition of labor union membership As of March 31, 2011
Union members Proportion of union membership* Average age of union members
6,530 77% 39.6
* Based on the number of regular employees (8,444)Composition of labor union membership As of March 31, 20111
Union members Proportion of union membership* Average age of union members
7,624 75.3% 41.4
* Based on the number of full-time workers excluding executive directors (10,124)Revisions to systems operating in accordance with agreements 
between the labor union and the company As of March 31, 2011
Fiscal year Item
2006• Revisions to re-employment systems
• Clarification of transfer and external assignment regulations
• Revisions to travel expense regulations
2007• Revisions to the support system for encouraging a good work-life balance
• Revisions to policy on providing condolence money
2008• Revisions to the support system for encouraging a good work-life balance• Introduction of work regulations adapted to the citizen judge system
2009•  Transition from approved retirement annuity system to defined-benefit corporate pension system
• Revisions to retirement benefits• Revisions to some employee systems
2010• Expansion of the childcare leave program• Expansion of the child medical care leave program
• Creation of the family care leave program
•  Increase in the upper limit on the number of times half-day leave can be taken
• Revisions to some employee programsRevisions to systems operating in accordance with agreements 
between the labor union and the company As of March 31, 2011
Fiscal year Item
2006• Revisions to the human resources system
• Implementation of SLP*
2007 • Implementation of comprehensive secondment system
2008 • Revisions to travel expense regulations
2009 •  Introduction of work regulations adapted to the citizen judge system
2010 • Revisions to the program for supporting childcare and family care
* Second Life Program
Systems for a good work-life balance
•  In response to the 2010 amendment to Child Care and Family Care Leave 
Law, programs for supporting a balance between work and childcare or family care have been improved, and programs that more than satisfy legal requirements are now in place, such as the improved child medical care 
leave program and the newly introduced family care leave program.
•  Stock leave is a system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave time up to 60 days. Accumulated leave days may be used for treatment 
needed for personal health problems, rehabilitation, childcare, nursing care, 
and volunteer activities.Systems for a good work-life balance•  All of these systems provide for generous leave beyond that required by law.
Respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination
Founded on the principles of the Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, 
FUJIFILM respects basic human rights and will not engage in any act whatsoever 
that unfairly infringes the human rights of its employees. We do not discriminate on the basis of gender, age, nationality, ethnic origin, beliefs, religion, social position, 
physical condition, or other characteristics and respect the privacy of our employees. 
To prevent sexual harassment, we have continuously implemented activities to raise 
awareness and disseminate information within the company, including the revision 
and distribution of sexual harassment prevention guidelines based on the revised 
Equal Employment Opportunity Law, which took effect in 2007, to all employees of 
FUJIFILM and its affiliates. We also defined the prohibition of power harassment in our company regulations. In addition, we have provided a telephone consultation 
service (the compliance and sexual harassment helpline) where arrangements have 
been made for external specialized counselors in addition to in-house persons in 
charge to receive requests for consultation from employees. While respecting the 
privacy of individuals receiving consultation, we work toward the resolution of these issues. Other related activities include periodic training sessions for personnel in 
managerial positions in FUJIFILM and its affiliates on the subjects of respect for 
human rights and the elimination of discrimination.Respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination Continuing from the previous year, in fiscal 2010, we conducted training over the 
intranet for all Fuji Xerox (FX) employees, focusing on the prevention of discrimina-
tory behavior, which incorporated the results of an employee awareness survey on 
compliance. Training sessions designed for individual employee grades were held 
again this year for new recruits, new managers and department heads to enhance awareness and better understanding of human rights issues, as well as to establish 
these values in the workplace. Fuji Xerox has been an active member of the 
“Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo” since 1982. We have been in-
volved in the mutual exchange of information with other companies, as well as in 
educational activities designed to address issues related to human rights. Recruitment
New graduate 
recruitment(Fiscal 2011)149*
1Technical positionsMale 76, Female 19Administrative positions
Male 41, Female 9
Mid-career recruitment 51*
2Male: 42, Female: 9
*1  As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the beginning of April,  
the number in the chart above represents new graduate recruitment at the beginning of April 2011.
*2  Number of mid-career recruitment represents those from April 2010 to March 2011.Recruitment
New graduate 
recruitment(Fiscal 2011)227*
1Technical positionsMale 91, Female 13Administrative positions
Male 78, Female 36
Mid-career recruitment 59*
2Male: 46, Female: 13
*1  As the number of new graduates recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the beginning of April, the number 
in the chart above represents new graduate recruitment at the beginning of April 2011. The total also includes 
employees who have graduated from high school, a college of technology, or a vocational college.
*2 Number of mid-career recruitment represents those from April 2010 to March 2011.Employment and re-employment of persons with disabilities
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Employment of 
persons with 
disabilities*11.77% 1.89% 1.87% 1.72% 1.77%
Re-employment*
237 38 40 18 24
*1 Data up to March 31 for each fiscal year
*2 Re-employment refers to employees re-employed after retirement.Employment and re-employment of persons with disabilities
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Employment of 
persons with 
disabilities*11.76% 1.96% 1.88% 1.89% 1.86%
Re-employment*
2122 246 352 423 517
*1 Data up to March 31 for each fiscal year
*2  Number of re-employed workers revised to real figures up to the day following the end of each fiscal year
Work accident rate and work accident severity
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Work Accident 
Rate*10.22 0.09 0.00 0.05 0.31
Work Accident 
Severity*20.03 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.01Work accident rate and work accident severity
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Work Accident 
Rate*10.49 0.18 0.23 0.24 0.19
Work Accident 
Severity*20.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01Number of employees taking a leave of absence*
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Leave of absence 
for nursing care1 0 6 5 5
Leave of absence for childcare32 44 32 30 55
Leave of absence for volunteer work0 0 0 0 0
* Number of employees who began a leave of absence during the relevant fiscal year.Number of employees taking a leave of absence*1
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Leave of absence 
for nursing care2 5 5 2 1
Leave of absence 
for childcare49 49 54 40 44
Leave of absence for volunteer work*
20 1 0 0 0
*1 Number of employees who began a leave of absence during the relevant fiscal year.
*2 Number of employees who used the social service program.Giving birth 
and childcare 1. Systems catering for pre- and post-birth requirements
 2. Leave of absence for childcare
 3. Use of stock leave for childcare
 4. Systems for employment while raising children
 5.  Three-person interview at the time of returning to work from childcare leave
 6.  Child medical care leave program (1 relevant child: 6 days per year; 2 or 
more children: 11 days per year)
 7. Reduced work hours program (child in the third grade or lower)
 8. Use of stock leave for fertility treatment
 9.  Leave of absence for fertility treatment
10.  Exemption from restrictions on non-scheduled hours worked and from work on holidays
Nursing 
care 1. Leave of absence for caring for a family member
 2.  Family care leave program (1 care recipient: 6 days per year; 2 or more 
care recipients: 11 days per year)
 3. Use of stock leave for caring for a family member
 4. Systems for employment while caring for a family member
Other 1. Leave of absence for volunteer work, Use of stock leave for volunteer work
 2. Use of stock leave for self-development
 3. Use of long-service holidays
 4. Flextime
 5. Discretionary labor system
 6. Leaving the office on time (1 day per week)Giving birth 
and childcare1. Maternity leave (paid)
2. Childcare leave program3.  Program for rehiring former employees who left the company for reasons such as spouse’s transfer or childcare
4. Accumulated paid leave for healthcare of employees’ family*
1
5.  Shortened working hours for childcare (until third grade of elementary school)
6. Limited off-hours work (until sixth grade of elementary school)
7.  Limited late-night work for childcare (until sixth grade of elementary school)
8.  Special leave for supporting the wife during her childbirth period  
(first child’s birth: 2 days; second child’s birth and thereafter: 5 days)
Nursing 
care1. Leave of absence for caring for a family member (maximum 2 years)
2. Shortened working hours for caring for a family member3. Limited off-hours work for caring for a family member4. Limited late-night work for caring for a family member5. One-day nursing care leave6. Accumulated unused paid leave*
1 for caring for a family member
Other1. Flextime
2. Continuous service award special vacation; “refresh vacation”
3.  Social service system (leave program for employees participating in socially beneficial activities)
4. Accumulated unused paid leave*
1 for volunteer activities
5. Leave of absence for education6. Senior theme leave (support for senior employees’ second career)7. Flexible work schedules (support for senior employees’ second career)8. Double job program*
2 (support for senior employees’ second career)
*1  Accumulated paid leave: A system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave up to 60 days. 
Accumulated leave may be used for healthcare, childcare, nursing care, and volunteer activities.
*2  This is not double duties by order, rather it is a program designed to support senior employees who wish to go into business for themselves. Under this program, they are allowed to engage in both their current work and work in another division through a system that matches the needs of divisions wanting to utilize senior workers’ skills and experience with the will of senior workers who wish to use their special skills or to take on new challenges.Employment Employment
*1 Work Accident Rate =
*2 Work Accident Severity =× 1,000,000× 1,000Number of employees involved in work accidents
Gross number of hours worked
Number of workdays lost
Gross number of hours worked
*1 Work Accident Rate =
*2 Work Accident Severity =× 1,000,000× 1,000Number of employees involved in work accidents
Gross number of hours worked
Number of workdays lost
Gross number of hours workedPersonnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox)60 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 61Data and Information
The Fujiﬁlm Group’s Environmental Burden
Overview of fiscal 2010 Eco-efficiency from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2010
A. Waste Generation B. Natural Resources Consumed*1We have made concerted efforts in fiscal 2010 to 
improve our eco-efficiency. We established for 
ourselves a challenging goal to double our eco-efficiency by 2010 relative to the level in 2000, 
and have aimed to improve eco-efficiency (= revenues 
/ value for environmental burden) in 5 categories. However, the goal has been met only in 2 catego-
ries because the 2010 revenue is 30% lower than 
expected due to effects of the “Lehman shock” in 
2008.
[Notes]
•  Waste generation: Efforts were made to derive valuable materials from plastic and waste oil at domestic production factories. The amount of waste generated increased particularly at overseas sites.
•  Natural resources consumed: The amount of TAC consumption has increased significantly since 2006 as the flat panel display material business expanded.
•  Atmospheric emissions of VOCs: The amount has been drastically reduced especially at domestic factories in response to the implementation of the PRTR Act.
•  Water consumption: Efficient use of water has been promoted with the introduction of, for example, a multi-stage cascade system.
•  Packing materials consumed: Measures being promoted include reducing the size of packages, using group packaging, conserving resources, and 
substituting “low-burden” materials.
Electricity
Waste materialDischarged water Waste materialWater Electricity Water
Material recyclingEnvironmental burden due to raw materials procurement
(weight)Atmospheric emissions
Electricity used,  Oil and gas used,  Water used
Electricity: 1,227 million kWh
Oil*8: 72 MLNatural gas*9: 264 million m3
Water: 53 million tonsAluminum,
aluminum alloy137 kilotons
Silver: 0.996 kilotons
Paper
(used for products):61 kilotonsPET (polyethylene terephthalate):54 kilotons
TAC
(triacetylcellulose):62 kilotons
Others: 211 kilotons
Material recycling
Aluminum,  PET, Silver , TACWaste materialCO 2*12,448 kilotonsAtmospheric emissions
69.1 kilotonsAmount of cyclic
water used*10
86 million tonsDischarged waterAtmospheric emissions
CO 2*2
VOCs
Water*6Environmental burden due to product manufacture (weight)
Heavy oil and gasoline used,
Electricity usedEnvironmental burden due 
to product transportation 
Electricity used,  Water usedEnvironmental burden due
to product use
Waste combustion recycling energyEnvironmental burden due
to product disposal
*1 Environmental burden due to ra w materials procurement (CO 2 emitted during the process of extr acting,  transporting,  refining,  synthesizing,  processing,  and tr ansporting ra w 
materials) is calculated for the main raw materials procured.
*2 Environmental burden due to product manufacture is calculated based on the total amount of energy (electricity , petroleum, and gas) consumed in the production process .
*3 For the calculation of environmental burden due to product tr ansportation,  estimates are made based on domestic and overseas  transportation methods and distances tr aveled.  The typical 
amount of CO 2 emissions per unit of weight and distance for each method and correction factors such as the yield rate are multiplied by the w eight of the ra w materials procured.
*4 For copy machines , printers, and fax machines , environmental burden due to customers’ use of products is calculated as energy consumption for a 5-year period for the machines 
installed this year . For other products, the estimated number of machines in oper ation is multiplied by typical energy consumpt ion.
*5 Environmental burden due to product disposal is calculated based on the estimation of stress on the environment caused by th e disposal of the ra w materials procured.
*6 Wastewater released as a result of business activities
*7 Volume released to public wa ter
*8 Total of heavy oil A, heavy oil C, kerosene , light diesel oil,  and gasoline (Amounts of the petroleum-based products are summed after appropriate energy conversions , and the total 
is expressed in terms of the amount of heavy oil A.)
*9 Total of natur al gas, liqueﬁed natur al gas (LNG),  urban gas, butane, and liqueﬁed petroleum gas (LPG) (Amounts of the gases are summed after appropriate energy conversions , and 
the total is expressed in terms of the amount of urban gas. )
*10 This includes the amount of wa ter used in a cyclic manner .
(For the above , data from the input-output table and other sources are used to obtain CO 2 emissions per unit of output.)Direct control over the Fujiﬁlm Group’ s environmental burden1,316 kilotons
1.2 kilotonsNOx
Soot485 tons
4.1 tons
SOx 25 tons
54 million tons Total
nitrogen*7 282 tons
Total
phosphorus*79 tonsBOD*752 tons
COD*7105 tonsCO 2*3481 kilotonsAtmospheric emissions
CO 2*4726 kilotonsAtmospheric emissions
CO 2*5236 kilotons
2000(Eco-efﬁciency) 2010 target
20051.26 1.281.43
1.34
1.20
1.13
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year)1.01.52.0
Scheduled target guideline
2000(Eco-efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year)01.01.52.0
1.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
1.04
0.91Environmental burdens evaluated based on life cycle assessment
D. Water Consumption E. Packing Materials Consumed*2C. Atmospheric Emissions of VOCsEco-efficiency: (Eco-efficiency=Revenues / Value for environmental burden):  On target (above scheduled target guideline)   Additional effort required to meet target (below scheduled target guideline)   Target
*1 Materials: Aluminum, TAC, PET, silver and gelatin
*2 Materials: Cardboard boxes, paper materials, paper containers, metals, formed plastics, plastic film and sheet and glass2000(Eco-efﬁciency)
2010
target
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year)1.01.52.02.5
Scheduled target
guideline1.782.112.20
1.92
1.841.84 1.82
1.02.03.04.05.0
2000(Eco-efﬁciency)
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year)Scheduled target
guideline3.60
2010
target4.194.60
4.424.58
4.39
2000(Eco-efﬁciency)
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year)1.01.52.02.53.0
Scheduled target
guideline2.532.882.97
2.682.892.99
2010target62 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 63Data and Information
Environmental Aspects
Main CO 2 reduction measures
Types of efforts Life cycle stages Main CO 2 emission reduction measures
Developing and promoting widespread 
use of products that cause less stress on 
the environmentProcurement, use, disposal• Multifunction devices (copiers, printers, and faxes) with less energy consumption (documents field)
• Non-processing CTP plates requiring no developing solution (graphics field)
Reducing CO 2 emissions at factories  
and officesManufacture• Fuel shift from heavy fuel oil to gas (Japan)
• Use of methane gas generated at waste disposal landfill sites as fuel (United States)
• Wind power generation at factory sites (the Netherlands)• Developing and introducing energy-saving technologies such as waste heat collection and steam collection
Recycling Procurement•  Developing, introducing, and expanding the use of a recycling system for scrap aluminum from the production of 
PS/CTP plates (graphics field)
Efficient distribution Transportation• Paths optimization• Improving the loading ratio
• Promoting modal shifts• Using light and compact packaging• Promoting eco-driving
Annual changes in CO 2 emissions* Breakdown of CO 2 emissions
Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010200
04006008001,0001,2001,4001,6001,800
34
362
33
1,10634
326
30
923298
29
88432
336
35
9131,534
40
335
44
1,0971,516
1,312
1,2421,316Overseas, non-manufacturing
Overseas, manufacturing
Japan,  non-manufacturing
Japan,  manufacturing
31(thousand tons of CO 2 /year)
Fujifilm (six major factories in Japan)
Fujifilm (other sites in Japan)  
Toyama Chemical (in Japan)
Fuji Xerox (in Japan)
Fujifilm (outside Japan)
Fuji Xerox (outside Japan)58%
6%
1%7%24%4%
CO 2
emissions
0100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000600,000700,000800,000900,0001,000,000100
620,098779,659715,712184,149
647,854229,042
552,378520,638 529,105223,749 199,424184,46197
87
81 81
72
6460
0102030405060708090100(tons) (%)
844,602
1990 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012TargetTwo new factories
Four factories
Per-unit CO2 emissions (thousand tons of CO 2 /year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Japan, manufacturing 1,097 1,106 923 884 913
Japan,  
non-manufacturing44 33 30 29 35
Overseas, manufacturing335 362 326 298 336
Overseas,  non-manufacturing40 34 34 31 32
Group total 1,516 1,534 1,312 1,242 1,316
*  Calculation method:  
Japan: Calculation employing the coefficients specified in the Order for Enforcement of the Act on the 
Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Emission coefficient by electric power utility used for purchased power.  
Overseas: Retroactive calculations in compliance with the GHG protocol. Purchased electric power calculated with the coefficient found in CO
2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2009 Edition) published by OECD.
Breakdown of CO 2 emissions by region (fiscal 2010)* 
 (thousand tons of CO 2/year)
CO 2 emissions
Japan 948OverseasAmericas (USA, Canada, Brazil) 151
Europe (The Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, UK, France) 84
China 122
Asia (excl. China) and Oceania  
(Australia, South Korea, Singapore, etc.)12
Group total 1,316
* Calculated in the same way as for “Annual changes in CO 2 emissions”Annual changes in amount of CO 2 emissions and CO 2 emissions per 
unit of output at 6 main domestic factories handling chemicals*
The quantity of output in 2010 was 18% higher than it was in 2009. At the same time, we could curb the increase in CO
2 emissions to 4.6%. As a result, 
CO 2 emissions per unit of output drastically improved from 72 to 64. A major 
reason for this was the development, and then implementation at each fac-tory, of various energy-saving measures for the production process for ﬂat 
panels, such as the collection of heat from a distillation tower and the collec-
tion and reuse of ﬂash steam.
 For 2012, we expect a 20% increase in the quantity of output relative to 
the 2010 level and aim to curb the increase in CO
2 emissions to around 12%. 
Compared to 1990 levels, we plan to increase the quantity of output 2.3-fold in 2012 and to keep the rise in CO
2 emissions to less than 1.4-fold. In terms 
of CO 2 emissions per unit of output, our goal is to reach 60.
*  CO 2 emissions from the six major chemical factories in Japan (Fujifilm Kanagawa Factory’s Ashigara and 
Odawara Sites, Fujifilm Fujinomiya and Yoshida-Minami Factories, FUJIFILM Opto Materials Co., Ltd., and 
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.) account for 58% of the total emissions from the entire Fujifilm Group (includ-ing the Fuji Xerox Group and Toyama Chemical).Amount of CO 2 emissions for the entire product life cycle
Annual changes in energy consumption*1
Annual changes in water consumption, recycling,  
and discharge as wastewater05001,0001,5002,0002,500
Procurement Manufacture TransportC onsumption DisposalOther
Gas
Oil
ElectricityAluminum
PETOther
Medical equipment
Mini-labs
TAC
Materials for copiers ,
printers , and faxesCopiers, Printers,
FaxesFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Total environmental burden for 2010:  
5,207 kilotons of CO 2/year2,432
1,316
481726
236(thousand tons of CO 2/year)
05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,000
234
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 201028,942
25,89024,156
8,5547,131 6,477 7,0082,7849,8774,9821,935
3,4828,6043,9221,651
4,3657,5354,8711,892
6,0826,6875,3772,008
962127
Overseas, gas
Overseas, heavy oil,  etc.
Overseas, electric power
Japan,  gas
Japan,  heavy oil,  etc.
Japan,  electric power28,354
8,7957,8564,2925,3191,951(terajoules)
140
02 04 06 08 0 120 10001 02 03 04 05 06 0
01 02 03 04 05 06 0Fiscal 2006
Fiscal 2007
Fiscal 2008
Fiscal 2009Fiscal 2010
Fiscal 2006
Fiscal 2007
Fiscal 2008
Fiscal 2009
Fiscal 2010
Fiscal 2006
Fiscal 2007Fiscal 2008
Fiscal 2009
Fiscal 201091.7
52.4
51.9
50.3
55.380.2
73.5
85.850.2 7.3
48.1 7.0
45.2 6.4
46.1
91.7
80.2
73.5
85.6
46.1
46.3
45.1
49.66.355.0 48.56 .5
5.6
5.2
5.76.9
0.20.00.00.0112.3 112.3
0.0Consumption volume
Recycled volume
Wastewater discharge+BQBO 0WFSTFBT
+BQBO 0WFSTFBT
+BQBO 0WFSTFBT57.5
49.2 7.3 56.5
55.1
51.6
53.0
	NJMMJPOUPOTZFBS
	NJMMJPOUPOTZFBS
	NJMMJPOUPOTZFBS
 (terajoules)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Japan, electric power 8,795 8,554 7,131 6,477 7,008
Japan, heavy oil, etc.*27,856 6,082 4,365 3,482 2,784
Japan, gas*34,292 6,687 7,535 8,604 9,877
Overseas, electric power 5,319 5,377 4,871 3,922 4,982
Overseas, heavy oil, etc.*2140 234 96 21 27
Overseas, gas*31,951 2,008 1,892 1,651 1,935
Group total 28,354 28,942 25,890 24,156 26,613
Numbers for 2006 and 2007 do not include numbers for Toyama Chemical.
*1 Per unit calorific value is based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy.*2 Total of heavy oil A, heavy oil C, kerosene, light oil, and gasoline*3 Total of natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), city gas, butane, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)
 (million tons/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Consumption 
volumeJapan 50.2 49.2 48.1 45.2 46.1
Overseas 7.3 7.3 7.0 6.4 6.9
Group total 57.5 56.5 55.1 51.6 53.0
Recycled volume*Japan
112.3 91.7 80.2 73.5 85.6
Overseas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2
Group total 112.3 91.7 80.2 73.5 85.8
Wastewater dischargeJapan
48.5 46.1 46.3 45.1 49.6
Overseas 6.5 6.3 5.6 5.2 5.7
Group total 55.0 52.4 51.9 50.3 55.3
* Includes cooling water usageBreakdown of consumption of heavy oil, etc. (fiscal 2010)* 
 (thousand kiloliters)
Heavy oil Kerosene Light oil Gasoline
Japan 63.4 4.5 0.1 0.0
Overseas 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.1
Group total 63.4 4.5 0.7 0.1
* Consumption in manufacturing only
Annual changes in total CO 2 emissions in domestic logistics* 
 (tons of CO 2/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Total CO 2 emissions 60,499 54,254 49,825 41,031 40,936
*  Total CO 2 emissions are calculated as the amount of CO 2 emitted by Fujifilm Logistics Co., Ltd. in its lo-
gistics activities for the Fujifilm Group companies. Since fiscal 2006, we moved to the calculation method 
based on the Revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy (travel distance of empty cars, etc. is not included 
in calculations).Annual changes in domestic transport volume*  (million tons per kilometer)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Transportation volume 255 230 182 162 164
*  Transportation volume is calculated within the range of ownership in compliance with reporting under the 
Revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy.
Annual changes in reduction of export packaging material weight* 
(Cumulative total)  (%)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Packaging material 
reduction rate3.1 2.6 3.5 5.9 5.7
Packaging material reduction rate (%) = Weight reduced / Total material weight + weight reduced
*  Total weight of export packaging materials handled by FUJIFILM Logistics in fiscal 2010 was 4,122.9 
tons. Weight was reduced by 235.8 tons, a 5.7% reduction for the year.
Annual changes in the amount of container and packaging materials used 
(FUJIFILM Corporation non-consolidated)  (thousand tons/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Total consumption 24.8 24.6 23.3 19.4 19.0
*  Total amount of corrugated paper boxes, paper materials, paper containers, metal materials, plastic 
molds, plastic film/sheet and glass used
Annual changes in amount of CO 2 reductions and reduction rates through 
transportation efficiency improvements* (domestic distribution)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Amount of CO 2 reductions  
(tons of CO 2/year)715.7 3,550.1 5,810.1 6,691.0 7,004.0
CO 2 reduction rate (%) 1.2 6.1 10.4 14.0 14.8
CO 2 reduction rate (%) = Amount of CO 2 reductions / Total CO 2 emissions + CO 2 reductions
*  In fiscal 2010, we enforced our activities for CO 2 reductions in collaboration with a specified consigner. 
Major reduction initiatives, which proved effective, included improving carrying efficiency by double 
stacking during transportation and improving gasoline mileage by eco-driving.See p. 34 for numbers for the base year (2005) and the target year (2020).64 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 65Data and Information
Annual changes in waste generation, recycling & final disposal
01020304050607080
Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 201039.733.121.91.27.8
20.61.09.270.5
43.720.33.19.977.0
64.0
9.8
0.6
24.8
28.964.1
13.4
1.0
25.7
29.069.1Recycled volume Overseas
Recycled volume Japa nFinal wa ste disposal Overseas
Final wa ste disposal Japa n(Unit:  thousand tons/year)
 (thousand tons of CO 2 /year)
Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Waste 
volume*1Japan 36.2 46.8 40.7 34.3 29.5 30.0
Overseas 12.7 30.2 29.8 29.7 34.6 39.1
Group total 48.9 77.0 70.5 64.0 64.1 69.1
Recycled volumeJapan
28.6 43.7 39.7 33.1 28.9 29.0
Overseas 1.0 20.3 20.6 21.9 24.8 25.7
Group total 29.6 64.0 60.4 55.0 53.7 54.7
Final waste disposal*
2Japan 7.6 3.1 1.0 1.2 0.6 1.0
Overseas 11.7 9.9 9.2 7.8 9.8 13.4
Group total 19.3 13.0 10.1 9.0 10.4 14.4
*1 Processed by external service providers
*2 Simple incineration or landfill disposal
Annual changes in valuable resources*  (thousand tons/year)
Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Japan 43.0 54.9 59.7 55.4 51.9 56.8
Overseas 9.3 26.0 25.0 27.4 22.1 21.2
Group total 52.3 80.9 84.7 82.8 74.0 78.0
* Valuable resources are byproducts resulting from manufacturing that were subsequently sold.Annual changes in atmospheric emissions of VOCs  (hundred tons/year)
Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Japan 31.1 12.9 12.8 11.2 9.7 10.3
Overseas 1.7 2.9 1.9 1.9 1.6 1.7
Group total 32.8 15.8 14.7 13.1 11.3 12.0
Numbers for 2006 and 2007 do not include numbers for Toyama Chemical.
Reductions in VOCs atmospheric emissions*  
(FUJIFILM Corporation (non-consolidated))
Category Substance Reduction (tons)Reduction rate in 
comparison  
to fiscal 2000 (%)
Substances to be 
reported under the  PRTR LawDichloromethane 243 68
Substances voluntarily controlled by the 
companyMethyl alcohol 1,410 80
Ethyl acetate 319 79
Methyl ethyl ketone 166 80
Acetone 113 88
* Reduction in volumes in fiscal 2010 compared with actual levels in fiscal 2000.Main recycling methods for waste products
Waste product Recycling method
Plastics (sorted)Pallets, pipes, clothing,  
heat insulation materials
Plastics (mixed)/Filters Blast furnace fuel
Magnetic tapeBlast furnace fuel, tatami mat material, 
heat insulation materials
Aluminum hydroxide Alumina
Inorganic sludge, polishing agentsCement, roadway materials,  construction materials
Organic solvents Paint thinner
Acids and alkalines Neutralizer
Mixed ﬂammable waste productsSolid fuels, electricity,  and hot water production
Fluorescent lamps Glass wool, mercury
Batteries Zinc, smelt iron
Left-over food, raw garbage, organic sludge Fertilizers, animal feed
Documents, empty boxes Recycled paper
Metals such as iron, aluminum, and copper Smelt metalZero emissions
Fujifilm achieved zero emissions in 2003 and continues to improve the level of 
waste management. A future goal is to achieve zero emissions at Fujifilm’s overseas affiliates (i.e., production sites) and at the companies newly affiliated 
with the Fujifilm Group. We will continue to instruct mainly the following affili-
ates in order to achieve this goal: 1.  Domestic and overseas affiliates that have not achieved zero emissions with regard to waste generated from launching or closing a plant
 2.  Domestic and overseas affiliates that generated large amounts of waste
 3.  Domestic and overseas affiliates for which production is growing and 
which are far from achieving zero emissions
As to the definition of “zero emissions” used by Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, there 
is a slight difference between the 2 companies attributable to their business 
characteristics, but the term generally refers to recycling all waste generated in business activities and making the amount of waste that is simply inciner-
ated or buried at a landfill site zero.
Response to the PRTR Law (Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)
In addition to those substances that must be reported under the Pollutant 
Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, Fujifilm controls another 10 items 
on a voluntary basis, primarily substances specified by the Japan Chemical 
Industry Association as requiring autonomous monitoring. The company has been endeavoring to reduce the emissions on a consolidated basis. Data on 
the substances used (usage volume, atmospheric emissions volume, emission 
into public water bodies, volume entering sewage wastewater, volume moved 
outside of company facilities, and volume recycled) in amounts of 1 ton or 
more per year by Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates may be found on the Fujifilm website: 
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/
preservation/chemicalsmanagement/production/ prtr.htmlURLAnnual changes in volume of atmospheric emissions  (tons/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
SOx emissionsJapan 357 84 66 45 18
Overseas 5 6 3 2 6
Group total 362 90 69 47 25
NOx emissionsJapan 907 786 612 454 445
Overseas 96 111 84 43 41
Group total 1,003 897 695 497 485
Soot particle 
emissionsJapan 14.7 8.8 6.4 3.6 2.7
Overseas 0.2 0.2 4.1 2.1 1.3
Group total 14.8 9.0 10.5 5.7 4.1
Atmospheric emissions of specified CFCs*CFC-11 0.85 1.51 0.76 0.20 1.13
CFC-12 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.04
* Group total
Annual changes in water contaminant burden and emissions*1 (tons/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
Total amount 
of COD*2Japan 91.1 76.2 85.6 76.4 84.1
Overseas 15.4 20.3 13.5 13.7 15.3
Group total 106.5 96.5 99.1 90.1 99.4
Total amount of BOD*
3Japan 35.1 40.0 45.5 46.7 45.5
Overseas 4.6 4.7 3.0 5.6 5.5
Group total 39.7 44.7 48.5 52.3 51.0
Total amount 
of nitrogen 
emissionsJapan 290.6 258.8 290.3 286.5 282.3
Total amount of phosphorous emissions
Japan 3.9 4.3 5.0 3.7 9.1
*1 Efﬂuent release into public water bodies
*2  COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand): An indicator of water pollution. COD indicates the amount of oxygen consumed when water-borne pollutants (primarily organic contaminants) are oxidized upon the intro-duction of an oxidant.
*3  BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand): BOD is used to measure the degree of water pollution by determin-
ing the reduction in oxygen in the water as it is being used by organisms to decompose contaminants.Japan Overseas Group total
Number of legal violations  
(number of cases resolved)0
(0)6
(6)6
(6)
Number of complaints  (number of cases resolved)1
(1)0
(0)1
(1)Storage and management of devices and equipment containing PCBs*
Types of equipment containing PCBsStorage and management amounts
Domestic 
consolidatedGroup total
High voltage transformers (quantity) 1 18
High voltage condensers (quantity) 360 450
PCB oil waste, etc. (kg) 201.11 201.11
Sludge, etc. (m3) 10,400.1 10,400.1
Fluorescent lamp stabilizers (quantity) 15,175 17,975
Low voltage condensers excluding ﬂuorescent lamps 
(quantity)117,157 117,157
Low voltage transformers (quantity) 3 33
Rags (kg) 919.5 919.5
Other devices (quantity) 16 17
* Not including items with trace levels of PCBsLegal compliance and reports on complaints
In 2010, there were six violations of environment-related laws and one customer 
complaint, all of which were immediately addressed. Greater efforts will be made to have exhaustive controls in place and prevent any recurrence.
Responses to environment-related complaints and legal violations 
in fiscal 2010*
FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V. (the Netherlands)
Incident: A total of 74 kg of a VOC (volatile organic solvent) was dis-charged by mistake. The solvent was discharged without having been 
burned because the solvent burner stopped operating for 29 minutes due 
to equipment overheating.
Response: Since it is known that overheating can be prevented by diluting sol-vent steam with outside air, manual control will be used for now should the 
same situation occur again. Also, a dilution function was added to the software for automated control and was subsequently improved, and is now under test. 
The incident was reported to the relevant authorities. No penalty was imposed.
FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V. (the Netherlands)
Incident: A total of 20 liters of sulfuric acid residue was disposed of in order to repair a storage tank for sulfuric acid. However, the disposal was 
performed while a valve connected to a pit for collecting general waste-
water was mistakenly left open. Because of this, the pH level fell below its 
lower limit, 6.5, for 15 minutes.
Response: The incident occurred due to human error and slow responses 
of the pH meter. Therefore, the operational procedure was reexamined, and the pH meter was replaced with a new one. The incident was reported to the relevant authorities. No penalty was imposed.
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Limited (United Kingdom)
Incident: A weekly sampling analysis revealed that organic solvent 
(DMSO) with a concentration exceeding the specified level flowed into a 
wastewater treatment facility.
Response: The reason was the existence of an unexpected carryover of the 
solvent at the time of setting up the plant. As a response, it has been 
decided to conduct a series of checks regarding the operational procedure 
when batches of products are produced in the future. The incident was reported to the relevant authorities. No penalty was imposed.
FUJIFILM Omiya Office
Incident: Neighborhood residents complained that the sun did not shine 
on their houses until 8 AM due to the shape of the roof of the PS building 
constructed in 1990 and they wanted the shape changed.
Response: Sunshine simulation at the winter solstice confirmed the situa-
tion. It was explained that the roof complied with the Building Standards 
Act and the residents understood the situation. It was also explained that 
the company would consult with neighborhood residents when making any changes to its buildings or use of the site.
* Relatively minor violations have been excluded.Surveying and remediating soil and underground water pollution (FUJIFILM Corporation and its domestic affiliates/Fuji Xerox and its 
domestic affiliates)
The Fujifilm Group autonomously conducts environmental surveys on soil and underground water pollution. For substances used at manufacturing facilities 
that have regulated environmental limits, the Group rigorously manages their 
usage and storage and monitors their concentrations in underground water 
supplies. We are prepared to deal with any unforeseen pollution incidents in 
a timely fashion.
  http://www.fujifilm.co.jp/corporate/environment/
preservation/site/leakage/URL
  http://www.fujixerox.co.jp/company/public/sr2011/stakeholder/environment/target.htmlURL*  Organizations covered in the environmental performance data are, as a general rule, those that 
are shown in the consolidated financial statements, and are significant in terms of environmental 
burden. However, certain sales and manufacturing (assembly) subsidiaries are excluded.  
    Those not shown specifically are included in the tabulation figures above.   
    Moreover, figures for the Group total may not reﬂect the sum of each subtotal.66 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 67Data and Information
Fujifilm FY2011 Priority Targets
Priority Targets Strategies
1. Countermeasures against global warming
30% reduction in CO 2 emissions throughout life cycle of 
products by FY2020 (vs.FY2005)(i) Propagate energy conservation measures at production lines throughout the company
 (e.g. Recovery of exhaust heat, improvement in the efficiency of power generation)
(ii) Promote energy conservation at non-production facilities under standardized internal rules
 (e.g. Settings of air conditioning, lighting )
(iii)  Implement measures and incorporate technological advancements that help reduce CO 2 emissions at various life cycle 
stages of products including raw material procurement, distribution, use and disposal
(iv) Implement activities to educate employees and their families on reducing their CO 2 footprint
 (e.g. ICE Project, Safe-driving  and eco-driving activities)
2. Enhancement of Design for Environment (DfE) (i) Efficient use of resources by promoting the 3Rs : Reduce-Reuse-Recycle (products, packaging materials)
(ii) Enhance efforts for biodiversity conservation
(iii) Enhance DfE evaluation methodology to improve and promote the environmental attribute of products
3. Improvement of chemical substance control(i) Improve regulatory tracking and response to regulations at various region (especially emerging countries)
(ii) Ensure chemical substance information is transferred through the supply chain
(iii) Promote use of a new risk assessment model (hazard - exposure table) for chemical substances
4.  Enhancement of 
infrastructure for 
achieving 
environmental targets(1)  Environmental protection at production sitesImplement the following activities according to the FUJIFILM Responsible Care (FRC) system(i) Firmly maintain the system of compliance to meet legal requirements and voluntary control limits
(ii) Improve systems and processes to ensure proper management of wastes
(iii) Reduce waste generation through yield increase, reuse of manufacturing waste, conversion of waste into valuables etc.
(iv) Reduce VOC emissions from the film manufacturing process
(v) Reduce water use through reuse and other conservation efforts
(2)  Risk management using management systems(i) Improve quality and efficiency of business by use of IMS and EMS
(ii) Expand IMS adoption at production facilities
(iii) Enhance risk management for product safety and occupational safety
(3) 
 Information disclosure and 
communication of relevant information(i) Disclose information through various methods proactively (e.g. Sustainability Reports, websites)
(ii) Verify adequacy of the current system to meet social requests through dialogue with stakeholders
(4) Employee education(i) Educate and train employees in the area of environment, quality, product safety and occupational safety
(ii) Promote awareness for the need for biodiversity conservation
Fuji Xerox Priority Targets: Environmental Medium-Term Targets and 2011 Targets
Management Items 2011 Targets Medium-Term Targets (2013)
Controlling Global Warming
Facilities & 
factoriesDevelopment & ManufacturingCO
2 emissions reduction from production and development facilities to 135 
kilotons of CO 2 or less (utilize emissions trading)Absolute CO 2 emissions: reduce CO 2 emissions from production and 
development facilities to the 2005 level by 2013
OfficesCO 2 emissions reduction from domestic and overseas offices by 4% relative  
to 2007Absolute CO 2 emissions: reduce CO 2 emissions from domestic and 
overseas offices by 6% relative to 2007
Distribution Curb CO 2 emissions from product transportation: less than 270 kilotons of CO 2Curb CO 2 emissions from product transportation: less than 336 
kilotons of CO 2
Products and services CO 2 emissions reduction at the customer level: by 1,431 kilotons of CO 2 Formulate next plan by the end of fiscal 2012
Preservation of Natural Resources
Products3RsCurb new resource input by reusing parts: more than 1,911 tRecycling rate of recovered parts: Domestic/Asia Pacific (AP) 99.9% / China 99.8%Curb new resource input by reusing parts: over 3,398 t
PaperUse more recycled paper: recycled paper content = more than 68%
New sales of FSC certified paper  (paper type 1)Use more recycled paper: recycled paper content = more than 70%Increase the number of FSC-certified products: increase product items 
for 6 to 9 product lines
Facilities & 
factoriesProduction facilities Reducing water use: by 25% (relative to 2005) Reduce water use: preparing for this in the next medium-term plan
Offices Domestic and overseas sites: achieve zero emissions Domestic and overseas sites: achieve zero emissions 
Reduction in Environmental Risks from Chemical Substances
ProductsRoHS complianceEnsure compliance with the second stage of the Chinese RoHS: establish a 
CCC-compliant processCreate strategies for chemical substances in products: substitute, 
beyond regulation requirements, high-risk chemical substances 
contained in products
REACH compliance Articles: start operating a temporary Article Information Sheet-compliant eGreen system, complete the design phase for the permanent systemAs above
Facilities & factoriesVOC emission monitoring VOC reduction : More than 12% reduction in 20 overseas VOCs usedCreate chemical substance-related strategies: voluntarily reduce high-risk chemical substances used at operational sites; reduce risks
BiodiversityAttempts to establish and assess biodiversity evaluation at lands used  
for operationsReduce negative environmental effects, promote employees’ understanding of environmental protection 
Measures for dealing with 
soil and groundwater 
pollution and PCBHandle soil and groundwater pollution at 1 domestic site and 2 overseas sites
Prepare for PCB treatment (detailed examination of costs)Reduce pollution risks (3 sites) by FY2012Treatment of high-density PCB (2011–2016)Fujiﬁlm Group Green Policy
Fujifilm Group Green Policy
Basic Policy
“Sustainable development” is the most important issue for our planet, the human race, and all business entities in the 21st century. The Fujifilm Group companies around 
the world aim to stay at the forefront of efforts to attain this goal in environmental, economic, and social terms. We will strive for customer satisfaction as well as our contributions to “sustainable development” by achieving high environmental quality in products, services, and corporate activities.
Action Guidelines
  We will promote environmental burden reduction and product safety assurance 
with the following four items in mind:
 (1) Our efforts are pursued throughout all corporate activities.
 (2) Our efforts are pursued throughout the entire product life cycle.
 (3) We give overall consideration to economic and social implications.
 (4) Biodiversity conservation
  We will improve our management of chemical substances and the chemical content of products to reduce environmental risks.
  We will comply with legal regulations as well as Fujifilm Group regulations, standards, and requirements that are individually agreed on.  We will strengthen partnerships with our business partners, collaborate in 
government and industrial activities, and actively participate in community 
activities.
  We will actively give full disclosure of the information regarding our involvement 
in and accomplishment of various environmental activities to all associated individuals, including local communities, governments, and Fujifilm Group company employees, to facilitate open communication.
  We will heighten the environmental awareness of every Fujifilm Group employee through employee education, so that we can fortify our infrastructure to face the challenges posed by environmental issues in the future.Environmental Accounting
Overview of fiscal 2010
•  As investment in production-related equipment in factories rose in 2010, 
environmental-related capital expenditure also increased.
•  More specifically, there was an increase of more than 2.4 billion yen for only investment related to the protection of the global environment and to the prevention of pollution associated with the ﬂat panel display manufacturing 
facilities for which renewal or expansion had been held back in 2009.
•  Capital expenditure on the development of energy-saving products and on research concerning energy-saving production processes is around the same 
as that in 2009.
• Costs including various expenses are around the same as those in 2009.
•  The value of environmental conservation benefits is lower because, com-pared to 2009, there was a rise in production and in the amount of energy 
such as electricity and natural gas used.
Period of coverage
Fiscal 2010 (April 1, 2010– March 31, 2011)Scope of environmental accounting
61 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, FUJIFILM Corporation and 17 Fujifilm 
affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 40 Fuji Xerox affiliates, and Toyama Chemical)
Basic items
• Objectives of environmental accounting1.  To provide accurate quantitative information on volumes and economic effects to interested parties within and outside the Group
2.  To provide numerical environment-related information useful for decision making by management and 
supervisors at the working level
•  Accounting method  
Based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition)” published by the Japanese Ministry 
of the Environment.
1. Depreciation is calculated, in principle, according to the straight-line method over a 3-year period.  
2.  When costs include expenditures for both environmental and non-environmental purposes, the portion relating to non-environmental purposes has been excluded.
3.  Economic impact within the Group: The difference in value terms from the previous year in fines for 
polluting and usage of energy, raw materials, water, and other resources is accounted for, as well as the 
real impact of recovery, recycling, and other measures in value terms for the year in question.
4.  Economic impact outside the Group: The difference in value terms from the previous fiscal year is shown for 
SOx, VOCs, and CO
2. For recycling, the anticipated benefit in value terms is shown for the year in question.Customer benefits are expressed in monetary terms based on a comparison of 
environmental burden between the case in which customers use new products 
they purchased and the case where they use old products. Total customer 
benefits for 2010 are lower compared to 2009. Notably, customer benefits associated with high-density magnetic memory materials fell because cost per 
memory density rose. Customer benefits associated with pre-sensitized aluminum 
plate not using plate-making film increased due to higher product shipment.
*1  SOx emissions reductions: ¥167/ton  
Bidding price of SOx emissions credits offered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in 
March 2011 (US$2/ton)
*2  VOC emissions reductions: ¥350,000/ton  
From the “Economics Evaluation Report on Countermeasures for Harmful Atmospheric Pollutants” is-sued by Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, February 2004
*3  CO
2 emissions reductions: ¥1,957/ton  
Trading price of EU emissions credit 2011 futures (  17.27/ton) at the end of March 2011
*4 Landfill costs for the waste product (¥100/kg)*5  Water resource consumption reduction: ¥200/ton for clean water supply, ¥200/ton for sewage water times the reductions amount
*6 Volume of recycle and valuable resources in generated industrial wasteCustomer benefits (million yen)
ProductAmount
Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
1. High-density magnetic memory materials 4,141 -1,178
2.  Pre-sensitized aluminum plate not using 
plate-making film21,086 23,651
3. Film for LCDs: WV films 23,263 23,136
4. Digital color multifunction device and printers 10,611 11,310
Total 59,101 56,919
Environmental accounting for fiscal 2010 (million yen)
Environmental Conservation Costs Environmental Conservation Benefits
Capital investment Expenses Economic impact within the Group Economic impact outside the Group
Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010
1.  Costs incurred at the 
business site1,487 3,502 11,832 9,542
(1)  Environmental damage 
prevention850 2,201 6,073 4,911Reduced pollution levy 2 -4Reduced SOx emissions*10.1 0.005
Reduced volume of  SOx emissions20 tons 28 tons
Reduced volume of  NOx emissions158 tons 9 tons
Reduced VOC emissions*
255 -70
Reduced volume of  VOC emissions156 tons -25 tons
(2)  Global environmental protection594 943 3,005 2,200 Energy conservation 545 -1,443Reduced CO
2 emissions*375 -75
Reduced volume of  CO
2 emissions47 kilotons -38 kilotons
(3) Resource recycling 43 358 2,753 2,431Reduced use of raw materials and resources7,363 10,935
Reduced waste materials through reuse and recycling*
410,667 11,092 Reduced water resource consumption*
5803 -808
Recovery and recycling
Silver 1,521 1,668Reduced volume*6106.7 
kilotons110.9 
kilotons Polymeric materials 860 875
Aluminum materials 317 228 Reuse of aluminum materials Reduced volume of CO
2 emissions63 80
Other recycling 331 267 40 kilotons 40 kilotons
2.  Upstream/downstream costs  Recovery from the market11 26 10,584 7,660QuickSnap recovery, Parts recovered from used equipment10,069 5,991
3.  Cost of management activities45 76 9,147 8,079
4.  Research and  development costs1,125 931 17,483 19,804Customer benefits are shown in the table above.59,101 56,919
5. Costs for social programs 0 0 86 297
6.  Costs for handling environmental damage Pollution levies1 11 329 211
Total 2,670 4,545 49,461 45,593 21,811 17,709 69,961 67,94668 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011Data and Information
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 69Domestic and International Appraisals
Ranking and status of SRI audit
FUJIFILM Holdings has received the following evaluations by external organi-
zations as a corporate group that proactively promotes CSR actions toward 
sustainable development. It is included in the Socially Responsible Investment 
(SRI) index listed below. Also listed below are evaluations of FUJIFILM Holdings in domestic and international ranking surveys as of July 2011.
Appraisals and awards in fiscal 2010 
Recipient Name and description of the award Awarding entity
FUJIFILM CorporationThe portable ultrasonic diagnostic imaging machine FAZONE CB received the Gold Award 
(Minister of Economy, Trade, and Industry Award; i.e., nominated for the Grand Award) in the 2010 Good Design Award.Japan Industrial Design Promotion Organization
FUJIFILM CorporationThe digital cameras FinePix REAL 3D W3, FinePix F300EXR, and FinePix HS10 and the digital 
X-ray diagnostic imaging system FUJIFILM DR CALNEO C won the Good Design Award.Japan Industrial Design Promotion Organization
FUJIFILM CorporationExhibition at nano tech 2011: the International Nanotechnology Exhibition and Conference; 
nano tech Grand Award (the highest award) received.nano tech 2011: the International Nanotechnology Exhibition and Conference
FUJIFILM CorporationSustainability Report 2010 received a Prize for Excellence in the Sustainability Report Awards of the 14th Green Reporting Awards and Sustainability Reporting Awards.Toyo Keizai Inc.
FUJIFILM Corporation Kanagawa FactoryMinister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology Award.  (an award given to organizations actively promoting their employees’ physical fitness)Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants, Inc. SOCMA Silver Award for Performance Improvement Award - Product StewardshipSociety of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates (SOCMA)
FUJIFILM Dimatix, Inc. New Hampshire Governor’s Award for Pollution PreventionNew Hampshire Governor and New Hampshire Department of Environmental Protection Services
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc. /  Env. & Reg. ComplianceBest Special JAKES Event, both National and State awards  (awarded to the Neil Cost Chapter headquartered in Greenwood)National Wild Turkey Federation (NWTF)
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.  
(Rolling Meadows)Dischargers Demonstrating Exemplary Compliance for 2008Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc. Preferred Quality Supplier Award Intel Corporation
FUJIFILM Canada, Inc.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants, Inc.
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.FUJIFILM North America Corporation2010 Safety Award: 20 facilities from the noted divisions received the 2010 Safety Awards 
including 3 “Best in Class” awardsInternational Imaging Industry Association
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) N.V. Preferred Quality Supplier Award INTEL
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants, Ltd.  
(Grangemouth, UK) Gold Medal for Occupational Health & SafetyThe Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA)
FUJIFILM France S.A.S. (France) Imprim’Vert Certificate (“Green printing certification”)P2i / Chambre des Metiers et de l’Artisanat des Yvelines (France)
FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Company conducting tests related to a recycling-oriented economy in Suzhou City Suzhou Municipal People’s Government
FUJIFILM Printing Plate (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Company with clean production processes at the Suzhou City Industrial ParkSuzhou City Industrial Park  Management Committee
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals Singapore Pte.Ltd. Singapore Chemical Industry Council (SCIC) Responsible Care Award 2010 Singapore Chemical Industry Council (SCIC)
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.Products in three categories (a full-color digital multifunction device for small and medium-sized businesses, full-color digital multifunction devices for offices, and color on-demand publishing systems for high-end professional use) received the Good Design Award.Japan Industrial Design Promotion Organization
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.A new technology, the Belt-Roll High-Speed Fusing Technology, received the 2011 Technology Prize and the Research Presentation Prize from Japanese Society of Printing 
Science and Technology.Japanese Society of Printing Science  
and Technology
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.Together with Xerox, Fuji Xerox has been placed in the Leader Quadrant of the 2010 Magic Quadrant Managed Print Services (MPS) Worldwide.Gartner, Inc.
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Sustainability Report 2010  received the Special Award in the Sustainability Reporting Award 
of the 14th Green Reporting Awards, Sustainability Reporting Awards.Toyo Keizai Inc.SurveyEvaluation for  
FUJIFILM Holdings
14th Nikkei Environment Management Survey  
(sponsored by Nikkei Inc.)10th out 475 manufacturers
6th Company Quality Management Survey  
(sponsored by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers)1st out 249 companies
Eco Brand Survey 2010 CSR evaluation ranking  (Nikkei Business Publications, Inc.)60th out 560 companies  
(Eco brand index/deviation: 62.1)
SAM Sustainability Year Book 2011  (Sustainable Asset Management AG)SAM Gold Class
5th Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking 2011 (Toyo Keizai, Inc.)4th out 1,132 companies  (542.4 points)
Inclusion in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indexes 2010Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Global IndexInclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment IndexThird-Party Opinion
Since its establishment as a holding company in 2006, 
FUJIFILM Holdings has continually engaged in structural re-forms, business diversification, and the strengthening of or-
ganizational capabilities. These keywords are thoroughly 
reflected in the company’s CSR activities. One can say that 
the Group’s CSR activities are clearly characterized by CSR development based on management systems, confirmation of the social and environmental significance of business op-erations, and sharing of integrated visions and goals. Although some activities have not achieved sufficient results, I appreciate the fact that these factors are clearly shown.
 In this report, these factors can be easily seen from 
comprehensive information and data found at the end of the 
report, articles on the healthcare business and healthcare IT, and features on the activities for creating a sense of organi-zational unity and on human resource development, inter-personnel communication, and personnel exchanges. ISO 26000 (the international standard on an organiza-
tion’s social responsibility) states that it is an individual orga-nization’s responsibility to identify which issues are relevant and significant for the organization to address, through its own considerations and through dialogue with Stakeholders. As evident from the clause, identifying stakeholders and en-gaging with them will certainly become increasingly impor-tant. I can find the company’s consideration of this observation in the columns called “VOICE” in this report. Having said that, I hope for 2 things. First, I want the 
Fujifilm Group to continue and intensify its efforts to seri-ously examine both the positive and negative sides of the impacts of its business operations. There continue to be de-mands for risk assessment and reevaluation of the safety of chemical products. Also, as a growing comprehensive healthcare company, the Fujifilm Group will potentially face problems associated with side effects and medical ethics and the human rights issue of access to medicine. I hope that the company will further hone its antennae to identify various impacts of its business operations. Second, I hope that the distance between the CSR activi-
ties and the individual employees’ daily activities will be shortened. Vision-led or PDCA-dependent CSR activities carry the risk of becoming too theoretical. I hope that emphasis continues to be placed on activities in which individual em-ployees can experience their connection with society and gratitude expressed by society. Good examples would be 
activities that take advantage of the Group’s technology and 
knowledge, such as the photo restoration project, the testing 
for radioactivity contamination and data analysis, and the sharing of information on radioactivity, which are described in this report as activities that support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. Lastly, my attention was drawn to the explicit statement 
that, as described in the Top Commitment, the Fujifilm Group 
continues to actively contribute to the resolution of social is-
sues facing various parts of the world. Despite the fact that 
more than 50% of the group’s sales come from overseas, the content of this report centers on cases of domestic activities. I sincerely hope that in the near future the report will be filled with examples from all over the world, showing the Group’s contribution to the realization of a sustainable society.
Mr. Eiichiro Adachi
Counselor, Japan Research Institute, 
LimitedHead of ESG Research Center
In charge of CSR-related industry research and corporate assessment 
mainly in the area of environmental measures. Provides corporate in-
formation to financial institutions that is used for socially responsible 
investment or environmentally conscious financing. (Co-) author of CSR Management and SRI (2004, Kinzai, in Japanese), Businesses That 
Grow with Global Warming (2007, Toyo Keizai, in Japanese), 
Introduction to Environmental Management (2009, Nikkei Publishing, 
in Japanese), Evolving Strategies of Financial Institutions for Managing 
Environmental Risks (2011, Kinzai, in Japanese), etc. Member of the Main Committee for Converting ISO 26000 into a JIS, Japanese 
Standards Association [present] (Japan expert, ISO 26000 Working 
Group [until May 2009]).
As a provider of corporate information used for socially responsible investment to financial institutions, I submitted this third-party opinion based on the understanding, which I gained through this report, of the social and environmental activities of the Fujifilm Group and the way it discloses information. The comment is not intended to show my judgment of whether the measurements and calculations are accurately conducted according to standards for an envi-
ronmental report that are generally recognized as fair and appropriate or whether all important matters are included.
70 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011 71Fujiﬁlm Group Business Overview
The Fujifilm Group aims to become a global enterprise—trusted by society and customers—that makes broad contributions to the advancement of culture, science, 
technology, and industry. We will also contribute to enhancing quality of life and conserving global resources, while making further contributions to society through 
active business operations in the Imaging Solutions Segment, Information Solutions Segment, and Document Solutions Segment.
Consolidated Revenue Net income (loss) attributable to FUJIFILM Holdings
(100 million yen)
(FY)(100 million yen)
(FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010010,00020,00030,000
-50005001,00027,825
344
1,044
105
-38428,468
24,343
21,817
22,171
639Proportion of consolidated revenue  
by regionProportion of consolidated revenue  
by operating segments  
2010
The Americas
16.6%Europe
11.7%Asia and others
25.0%
Japan
46.7%2010Imaging 
Solutions
14.7%
Information 
Solutions
41.4%Document
Solutions
43.9%   
Imaging Solutions
The Imaging Solutions Segment handles color films, digital cameras, photofinishing equipment, color paper, chemicals, and services for photofinishing.
(100 million yen)
(FY) 2010 2009 2008(100 million yen)
(FY) 2010 2009 2008Consolidated revenu eO perating loss after restructuring 
and other chargesProportion of revenue by business
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
-1,00001,0004,104
3,455
3,258
-293
-633
-127Other
 18%Color F ilms, etc.
8%
Color P aper 
and 
Chemicals
24%
Labs and 
FDi Services
15%Electronic Imaging
35%
Information Solutions
The Information Solutions Segment handles equipment and materials for medical systems and life sciences, pharmaceuticals, equipment and materials for graphic 
art, ﬂat panel display (FPD) materials, recording media, optical devices, electronic materials, and inkjet materials.
Consolidated revenu e Proportion of revenue by business
(100 million yen)
(FY) 2010 2009 200805,00010,000
9,461
9,008
9,174
05001,000(100 million yen)
(FY) 2010 2009 2008Operating loss after restructuring 
and other charges
106204
1,035Optical Devices 7% Medical Systems/
Life Sciences
29%
FPD Materials
24%Recording
Media
5%
Office 
and 
Industry  
10%
Graphic Art
25%2010
Document Solutions
The Document Solutions Segment handles office copy machines/MFPs, printers, production systems and services, office services, paper, and consumables.
* Due to the reclassification of corporate expenses made in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, operating income for each segment for fiscal 2009 has been restated.Consolidated revenu e Proportion of revenue by business
Global 
Services
9%
Office Printers
17%Production 
Services
13%Office
Products
52%Other 9%(100 million yen)
(FY) 2010 2009 200805,00010,000
10,778
9,354
9,739(100 million yen)
(FY) 2010 2009 2008Operating loss after restructuring 
and other charges
05001,000
497
392
742
*Effective from fiscal 2009, net income is stated as net income attributable to FUJIFILM Holdings.Fujiﬁlm Group Organization Overview
Holding Company: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Fujifilm Group Organization Overview (as of March 31, 2011)The Fujifilm Group shifted to a holding company structure in October 2006 and has been expanding its group management centered on FUJIFILM 
Holdings Corporation.
 Company name: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
 Representative: Shigetaka Komori
 Head office:  Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku,Tokyo  
107-0052, Japan
 Established: January 20, 1934
 Capital: ¥40,363 million (as of March 31, 2011)
 Employees: 143 (as of March 31, 2011)
 Consolidated employees: 78,862 (as of March 31, 2011)
 Consolidated subsidiaries: 239 (as of March 31, 2011)
For information about the consolidated subsidiaries of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, please see p. 24. 
For more details, visit:
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.html63-Holding company
Operating companies Shared service companyFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
FUJIFILM 
Corporation
SubsidiariesFuji Xerox 
Co., Ltd.
SubsidiariesFUJIFILM Business 
Expert CorporationToyama Chemical 
Co., Ltd.
Subsidiaries100% 75% 66% 100%
Editorial postscripts
Thank you for taking an interest in the FUJIFILM Holdings “Sustainability Report 2011.” It has been 5 years since the Fujifilm Group 
started its holding company system in October 2006, with FUJIFILM Corporation, Fuji Xerox, and Toyama Chemical as subsidiaries. 
Since, we have striven to increase the Group’s overall capabilities, create greater synergy, and promote strategies for new growth. 
 This report focuses on the current state of cooperation among Group companies and cross-department collaboration, as well 
as how the actions of individual Group employees have influenced one another and how that has led to increased Group cohe-sion on the whole.
 We hope to continue reporting on Group efforts to create a sustainable society and increases in cooperation between Group 
companies, domestic and abroad, and collaborations with customers that enhance overall capabilities.
 We are grateful for the opinions from many experts and stakeholders we have received this fiscal year. We will continue to learn 
from these valuable comments and will incorporate them into our future activities. And as always, the candid opinions and com-ments from the readers of this report are ever appreciated.Proportion of consolidated employees by region 
(as of March 31,  2011)
2010
The Americas
6.9%Europe
6.7%Asia and others
35.5%
Japan
50.9%About the illustration on the front cover
Cypress Tree was created by the renowned Momoyama period artist Kano Eitoku. Although 
the piece is now a folding screen, it was once sliding-door paintings in the Hachijonomiya residence in 1590. Whether Eitoku saw the completion of this work is unknown because of his death in September of the same year, but the design centered on a large tree and the 
gorgeous gold-leaf ground strongly resembles his style. Cypress Tree highlights the swinging 
limbs of the cypress that seem to dance contrasted by the limited cold colors.
Tokyo National Museum collection
Image : TNM Image Archives Source Cypress Tree  Azuchi-Momoyama period 16th century
Since its founding, the Fujifilm Group has valued air and water. The dancing 
limbs of the large cypress tree nurtured by water and air symbolize the strong progress of society and are used for the front cover of this report.
Please address inquiries on this publication to:
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Date of publication: October 2011
©2011 FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationCSR Group, General Affairs Division
Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052, Japan
Tel.: +81-3-6271-2065Fax: +81-3-6271-1190
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/sustainability/contact/index.htmlFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2011