Sustainability Report 2009
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 200903 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Fujifilm Group Corporate Philosophy
We will use leading-edge, proprietary technologies to provide 
top-quality products and services that contribute to the 
advancement of culture, science, technology and industry, 
as well as improved health and environmental protection in society. Our overarching aim is to help enhance the quality of 
life of people worldwide.
Fujifilm Group Vision
Anchored by an open, fair and clear corporate culture and 
with leading-edge, proprietary technologies, Fujifilm is de-
termined to remain a leading company by boldly taking up the challenge of developing new products and creating new 
value.
Fujifilm Group Charter for Corporate Behavior
In addition to pursuing profits through fair competition, 
corporations must make a contribution to society at large. 
To this end, the Fujifilm Group, in its corporate activities in 
Japan and abroad, respects human rights, observes both 
the spirit and the letter of all laws and regulations and inter -
national rules, and, acting in a socially responsible manner, 
works independently toward the sustainable development 
of society and the Fujifilm Group companies, in accordance 
with the following five principles.
1. A Trusted Company
2. Social Responsibility
3. Respect for Human Rights
4. Global Environmental Conservation5. Vibrant Workplaces
Recognizing top management’s responsibility to embody the 
spirit of this Charter, Fujifilm Group executives shall lead by 
example and promote a sound understanding of the Charter 
both within Group companies and among business partners. 
They shall strive to continually take account of views within 
and outside the Group, establish efficient corporate systems, 
and foster high ethical standards.
In the event of situations that contravene this Charter, 
top management shall clearly indicate both within and out-
side the Group its approach to resolving the situation and 
work to identify its causes and prevent any recurrence. Top 
management shall be accountable, promptly and appropri -
ately disclose information, and take strict disciplinary action 
when appropriate, including in regard to itself.
The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR
The Fujifilm Group’s Approach to CSR is to contribute to the 
sustainable development of society by putting into practice 
the Fujifilm Group’s Corporate Philosophy, and realizing its Vision through sincere and fair business activities.
We will:
1.  fulfill our economic and legal responsibilities, and respond to society’s demands by contributing as a corporate citizen to the development of culture and technology in society 
and environmental preservation.
2.  constantly reassess whether our CSR activities are re-
sponding adequately to the demands and expectations of society and whether those activities are conducted 
properly through dialogue with our stakeholders including 
customers, shareholders, investors, employees, local com -
munities, and business partners.
3.  enhance corporate transparency by actively disclosing 
information to fulfill our accountability for our business 
activities.An age of drastic changes
We have faced many crises and hardships in the years since our 
foundation. Among these difficulties, the decreased demand for photo films, which began in 2000 with the development of digital media, shook the foundations of our business. In response to these changes, we formulated our medium-term management plan VISION 75 in 2004 to implement drastic structural reforms while carefully selecting and integrating our resources. As a result, we were able to achieve the highest ever consolidated sales (2.846 trillion yen) and operating income (207.3 billion yen) in fiscal 2007. After this v-shaped recovery, however, just before we were start -
ing to boost our sales, the world went into an economic recession. Moreover, the threat of the new flu pandemic has become a reality. We are indeed living in an age of drastic changes.
Nobody expected that the state of the socioeconomic en-
vironment surrounding us would become so serious across the world. A lot of countries and companies, including ourselves, are now faced with an economic depression, and we cannot make any easy predictions about the future economic situation or about how people’s behavior as consumers will change. 
Calmly understanding the situation and 
decisively moving forward to achieve creative results
In my message in the previous sustainability report, I said, “We 
thrive on change. To meet the challenges of changing times, we adapt and innovate. Responding to the expectations of society and creating connections to the future are the fundamental principles of our corporate management.” I am therefore not discouraged in the face of the drastic changes being made to our business  environment. What is important is to think calmly, analyze, and reflect deeply on what we should do now and how to change ourselves for the future. We must be courageous and decisive and fully resolved to implement our decisions. We are committed to doing this, and I am determined to manage our company in a manner that makes it possible for us to proactively plant the seeds of creativity, nurture them, and finally harvest the fruits.
Bravely taking on challenges
There must be many people who are concerned about the present socioeconomic situation. However, people, societies and times are constantly changing. The present situation will also change and become a part of history. We must not allow ourselves to become too preoccupied by the present situation, as this will not produce good results. Based on our past achievements, we are bravely taking on challenges aimed at the future. In the field of flat panel display materials, which we have positioned as a growth field, we are decisively making integrated investments of resources. In the business field of medical and life sciences, we are taking on new challenges based on the three concepts, “Life Imaging/Informa-tion,” “Life Cure/Care,” and “Life Safety/Security.”
For example, we have stepped into the field of “Life Cure/
Care” by beginning the sale of healthcare cosmetics and nutri-tional supplements. We are also challenging the “Life Safety/Security” field by including Toyama Chemical in the Fujifilm Group to pioneer new possibilities in the medical field. In our document solutions business led by Fuji Xerox, business in-novation activities started in fiscal 2008 have been favorably progressing, and a new base integrating R&D will start op-eration in 2010. In addition, we are strengthening our market position in the field of optical devices, as represented by our satellite optical lenses mounted on the pioneering lunar or -
bit satellite KAGUYA (SELENE). We are thus taking on various  challenges amid the changes and constantly transforming  
ourselves.
Setting and achieving targets to pave a way 
into the future
To be sustainable, we need to look positively toward the future. 
The future comes to everybody, and we must all be ready to face it. Amid the current socioeconomic climate, said to occur only once a century, we must turn our thoughts to what we should study and how we should act. It is vital that we gain a firm com-prehension of the actual situation and fulfill our social responsibili-ties to future generations. I believe that, as a going concern, we must set and achieve our targets for the future, in the face of the drastic changes. 
President and Chief Executive Officer, FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
and Chairman, Group CSR CommitteeTOP COMMITMENTIn managing our business,  
it is vital that we overcome drastic changes  
in the business environment.  
But this is not, on its own, enough.  
We must also commit ourselves  
to fulfilling our social responsibilities  
for the benefit of future generations.  
The basic requirement to continue  
as a going concern is for us to pursue  
and achieve our targets,  
and survive these drastic changes.
Shigetaka KomoriFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 04 05 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Employees
Fujiﬁlm Group
Market
Societies
(local and worldwide)
EnvironmentShareholders
and
investors
Customers
Future
generationsIndustrial associations,
Government organizations,
Business partners
CommunitiesTransaction
partners
Suppliers
NPOs/NGOsEnvironmental
(including governance)
disclosed as CSR information
Social
(including governance)
disclosed as  
CSR information
Disclosed in the 
sustainability report  (PDF)
Disclosed at the website (HTML)
Importance of information to the Fujifilm Group High LowHighImportance of information 
for stakeholders
Economic
(including governance)
disclosed as  
IR information
 http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/index.htmlURL
Period covered by the report
Fiscal year 2008 (April 1, 2008 – March 31, 2009) is covered 
in the performance data. With regards to the contents of activities, wherever possible, we have conveyed the most recent trends, including activities in fiscal 2009.
Organizations covered by the report
The Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm and its af -
filiates, Fuji Xerox and its affiliates, Toyama Chemical, and 
Fujifilm Business Expert)
● Major consolidated companies are shown on page 63 and URL shown below.
● Quantitative information about personnel and labor affairs is non-consolidated data for Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox.
● The scope of Labor Environment and Social Benefit Ac-counting is shown on page 44. The scope of Environmen-tal Accounting is shown on page 55.
Referenced guidelines
● Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines—Towards a Sustainable Society (Fiscal Year 2007 Version)
● GRI: Sustainable Reporting Guidelines 2006
● Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Accounting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2005 Version)
Supplemental information regarding reported matters
● The term “employees” refers to all employees, including managers, general employees, and part-time staff. The term, “company employees,” indicates full-time staff. To further ensure the accuracy of the report, the terms “regu-lar employees” and “non-regular employees” (temporary staff, part-time staff, others) have been used separately as required.
● The operating company, Fuji Xerox, issues a separate sus-tainability report. Please refer to that report for details on the activities of Fuji Xerox.FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009  
comprises three parts: “Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life,” 
“CSR Highlight 2008,” and “Data and Information.”
We made this report more compact and easier to read and 
understand than the previous voluminous report that covered a wide range of information. In this improved report, we provide information and data that are of particular importance to the Fujifilm Group and stakeholders, including the maximum pos-sible quantitative information to help stakeholders understand our CSR activities objectively and specifically.
The conceptual diagram on the right shows our editorial 
policy and the structure of information included in this report.
Please also visit our website:
Based on the basic principles of AA 1000 (http://www.accountability21.net/aa1000series), the FUJIFILM Holdings 
links Fujifilm Group’s CSR activities with the creation of the report as follows.Fujifilm Group and stakeholders
Related page   Page 44 Communication with Stakeholders
http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/report/guideline/index.htmlURLGRI Guideline (G3) Comparison Tablehttp://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/
en/business/group/index.htmlURLCONTENTS
Top Commitment 2
Editorial Policy 4
Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life 7
Part 1   
Activities in the Optical Device Business 8
Part 2   
Activities in the Life Science Business 12
Part 3   
Activities in the Document Solutions Business 16
CSR Highlights 2008 21
Human resources development in the Fujifilm Group 22
     Stakeholder Dialogue 2009  24
Responses to the climate change problem 26
Developing a CSR-oriented procurement framework 29
Conserving biodiversity 30
Social contribution activities: Archiving Shogozo  scrolls  
in the Office of the Shosoin Treasure House 32
Social contribution: volunteer planting in China 34
CSR activities in the United States 36
Data and Information 41
Self-Evaluation of the Fujifilm Group CSR Activities 42
Communication with Stakeholders/ 
Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting 44
Personnnel and Labor (Fujifilm) 45
Personnnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) 46
Communication with Customers 47
Fujifilm Group Green Policy 48
Environmental Burdens of the Fujifilm Group 50
Environmental Aspects 52
Environmental Accounting 55
Third-Party Review Target Sites 56
Internal and External Communication 58
Domestic and International Appraisals 59
Independence Assurance Statement 60
Fujifilm Group Business Overview 62
Fujifilm Group Organization Overview 63Editorial Policy
Stakeholders Communication (using tools such as dialogue meetings, surveys, and inquiries)
Utilization as 
communication tools
Utilization as 
communication toolsUtilization as 
communication tools
Utilization as 
communication toolsIncorporation of the 
improvement ideasCollection and provision 
of informationIncorporation of 
the opinions
Daily business operations (CSR activities)FUJIFILM Holdings
Group companiesPublishing the 
2008 reportOctober 2008
Publishing the 
2009 reportSeptember
Receiving 
improvement 
proposals 
from third 
partiesOctober
Formulating 
the editorial 
policyDecember
Interviewing 
individual 
departmentsFebruary to May 
2009
Receiving 
third-party 
auditsMay to JuneProcess of creating the reportFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 06 07 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
About the illustrations on the section title pages 
of this report:
Shobutsu Ruisan  and Shobutsu Ruisan Zuyoku  
(designated as important cultural properties of Japan), 
the property of the National Archives of Japan 
Shobutsu Ruisan  is a comprehensive work on botany 
compiled by Ino Jakusui and Niwa Seihaku. This work has been evaluated as an epoch-making achievement in the field of natural history in Japan. 
Zuyoku  (collection 
of illustrations) was created and submitted to the Edo Shogunate by Toda Sukeyuki, an official of the Shogunate. It is composed of 530 beautifully colored and elaborately depicted pictures. In this section, we will introduce the three priority business 
fields of the Fujifilm Group, which are described in our medium-term management plan VISION 75, on the theme of Enhancing Quality of Life—our corporate philosophy.
Activities in the Optical Device Business ………………… 8
Activities in the Life Science Business ………………… 12
Activities in the Document Solutions Business ………… 16Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifeTakahiro Amano
Operating Manager, Corporate Public Relations, Employees Welfare
General Administration Department
FUJINON CorporationHighly value-added and high-performance 
products created through unique  opt-mechatronics
The Fujifilm Group’s optical device business is centered 
on lenses, which are indispensable to producing images of things. In this business, FUJINON Corporation is in charge of the development, manufacture, and sale of lens-es in cooperation with FUJIFILM Corporation’s business departments and research laboratories.
Since it was founded in 1944, FUJINON has been 
constantly improving its technologies to design, process, and assemble optical devices such as binoculars and still cameras. In recent years, the company has developed its technologies as “opt-mechatronics,” combining its optical, mechanical and electronic technologies, thereby delivering more advanced and valued added products. Moreover, FUJINON’s business strategy has been to focus on products for which it can win the number one share using its unique advanced technologies, and actually enjoys top shares for the lenses used in cell phones with high-definition cameras (at least two million pixels) and TV cameras, as well as for lenses used in security devices such as security cameras.
Flexibly polishing glass and molding 
plastics for different applications and  in different sizes
In the manufacture of lenses, both glass and plastic are 
used. Glass is polished and plastic is molded with special technologies. For this reason, in the lens manufacturing industry, division of labor and outsourcing are taken for granted. However, FUJINON has all the technologies re-quired for the treatment and processing of the materials, and as its strong point, has been responsible for product development, design, molding, manufacture, and inspec-tion in an integrated manner. The company has also Lenses for security and in-vehicle cameras are 
expected to become growth markets
In the world of optical devices, higher-quality images and digitization are 
becoming the two keywords. For FUJINON, which has a competitive edge in high-performance lenses, this trend is favorable. In addition to lenses used in broadcast cameras and cell phones cameras, lenses for security and in-vehicle cameras are expected to become growth markets for us.We are already enjoying a top share globally for lenses for security cam-eras, but we will make even more efforts to increase our share by meeting the needs for higher definition and super-telephotographic cameras. In addition, there is an increasing demand for high-precision vein authentica-tion in the field of personal recognition systems, and so we are now finding ourselves in a business environment where we can fully display our tech-nological capabilities.
The introduction of lenses for in-vehicle cameras has just started for 
rear monitoring and front viewing systems. In the future, however, it is said that at least 10 cameras will be installed onboard a vehicle to ensure driv-ing safety, and so we are committed to developing in-vehicle camera lenses in cooperation with auto-makers, particularly in fields where we can utilize our high-quality image technologies.manufactured lenses for Utsurundesu (a roll of film with a 
lens) and has acquired the technology needed to mass-produce small lenses with high performance, which pro-vides it with a big competitive advantage.
Using all these strengths, FUJINON successfully 
developed lenses for cell phone cameras as its repre -
sentative product. Early in the 2000s, soon after the cell phone camera market was launched, the company began developing highly value-added lenses for the phones, predicting that high-quality and highly functional lenses would be needed in the future, although the image qual-ity of 100,000 to 300,000 pixels was the standard for cell phone cameras at that time. Now that an image quality of three million pixels is becoming the standard, FUJINON is far and away the top maker of high-performance lenses in the three million-pixel or higher image quality. In order to ensure that photos are taken at a high definition exceed-ing three million pixels, multiple lenses need to be com-bined. FUJINON has reduced the number of lenses used by introducing complex-shaped aspheric lenses, thereby achieving a downsizing. What is more, the company can produce a stable supply of several million products each month—an incredibly large number.  Achieving outstanding cost competitiveness 
by building a robust production system comprising Chinese bases
Manufacturers of parts that are used in products sold in 
very large quantities across the world such as cell phones and security cameras need to be cost competitive in ad-dition to having the ability to produce stable supplies of high-performance products. FUJINON has been prepar -
ing for this type of market its since early days. In 1994 the company launched a production base in Tianjin and es-tablished one more in Shenzhen in 2001, and is now pro-cessing and assembling lens units at the bases 24 hours a day. As the scale of production expands, the stable procurement of optical materials usually becomes more difficult, but FUJINON has already established a system for stable procurement by investing in a Chinese company that has the world’s largest glass furnace and by conclud-ing a preferential supply agreement with that company.
By establishing a robust product system, FUJINON 
can produce stable supplies of manufactured products, and in order to ensure the precision of the products, the company is implementing drastic measures to manage quality at its Chinese bases as strictly as in Japan.
While increasing the number of products for which it 
can enjoy the top share by strengthening its sales power, FUJINON will add more value to its products by develop-ing its lens units into camera modules through stronger cooperation with FUJIFILM’s departments dealing with electronic imaging devices such as digital cameras. The Fujifilm Group aims to expand its optical device business even more through this kind of cooperation. 
Corporate Profile
■ Location:   1-324 Uetake, Kita-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama 331-9624, Japan
■ Established:   March 1944
■ Capital:   500 million (as of March 31, 2009)
■ Employees:   1,100 (as of March 31, 2009)
■  Major products: Industrial Lenses, TV Lenses/Cine Lenses, CCTV Lenses, 
Laser Interferometers/Analyzers, Binoculars/Field Scopes, Educational/Skill Succession equipments, etc.
Website:   http://www.fujinon.co.jp/en/index.htmFUJINON CORPORATION
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 08 09 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Side viewFor confirming the lanes Front view
Takeshi Higuchi
Director, Senior Vice 
PresidentGeneral Manager of Optical Device Business DivisionFUJIFILM CorporationChairman of FUJINON Corporation
StrategyMeeting a Wide Range of Needs 
through Advanced Technologies  
as a Leader in the Age of  
Higher Image Quality
Lenses for cell phones with cameras, lenses for TV cameras, lenses for digital cameras, and lenses for security 
cameras. We enjoy top shares in these growth markets in which demand is increasing globally by producing products that meet the needs for high-definition images.Activities in the Optical Device Business
Part 1
▶ In-vehicle camera lenses that use the Fujifilm Group’s optical lenses©JAXA
Digital camera lensesCell phone lenses
Projector lensesHigh-definition 
TV lenses
Night vision
For monitoring 
passengersSecurity lensesCine lenses
Rear view
Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifeProducing lenses that will never break  
even in the harsh environment in space 
FUJINON’s basic attitude in developing lenses has been 
to tackle difficult problems to enhance its technological capabilities. The company has also been producing lenses for use in space—which can be said to be an extremely severe environment for lenses—for more than 20 years.
FUJINON lenses went into space for the first time 
in 1987, mounted on the marine observation satellite 1 (Momo-1). The harsh environment in space that lenses mounted on artificial satellites would be exposed to was as-yet unknown, and developers at FUJINON went through a trial-and-error development process to achieve absolute reliability and weight reduction for the lenses, which were not permitted to stop functioning space. In fact, the lenses successfully played their role as the “eyes” of the sensors in the marine observation satellite. Through the development of these lenses, FUJINON was able to establish the basic technology for satellite optics lenses and increased the reliability of its products. Subsequently in 1992, the company succeeded in developing a high-precision lens to be used to take stereoscopic images of the Earth landform for an earth observation satellite named FUYO-1. Since then, the company has been con-tinuously developing lenses that meet the needs of space exploration by participating in various space projects.
Three types of lenses mounted on KAGUYA 
will elucidate the secrets of the Moon
In 2007, a lunar explorer named “KAGUYA” was launched 
to elucidate the origins and evolution of the Moon. Three different types of FUJINON lenses (six lenses in total) are mounted on this lunar orbit satellite: (1) two lenses for a terrain camera capable of taking stereoscopic images of the Moon landform to create detailed topographic maps; (2) two lenses for a multi band imager to explore rock distribution on the Moon by collecting geological data through photography using specific visible and near-infrared light; and (3) two lenses for a high-definition cam-Establishing the “FUJINON” brand  
in the broadcasting industry through our progressive product development capabilities
In Japan, black-and-
white broadcasting started in 1953 and TVs had spread rap-idly to many house -
holds by 1959, when the Crown Prince (the present Emperor) was married. In 1960, col-orcasts started, and subsequently in 1962, when everyone in the broadcast-ing field were developing technologies for colorcasts of the Summer Olympics to be held two years later in Tokyo, the Fujifilm Group also began developing lenses for TV cameras used for colorcasts. In a very short time span, the Group completed development of four types of high-performance lenses, thereby contributing to the success of the world’s first colorcasts of the Olympic Games.
Subsequently, the Group developed a series of ad-
vanced products, including large-diameter 10x, 14x, and 22x zoom lenses. The Group also created the lenses for small and light cameras used for news reporting that would become standards in their class and thus estab-lished the “FUJINON” brand in the broadcasting industry.  
Developing epoch-making autofocus lenses 
for high-definition broadcasting
The broadcasting industry has undergone multiple chang-
es, including the start of colorcasts and satellite broad-casting. The industry is now at another turning point: it will soon shift to digital terrestrial broadcasting. With digitiza-tion, high-definition (HD) broadcasting will also become the norm, which will enable people to enjoy watching clearer images on large screens. FUJINON lenses have been making various contributions to HD technology. For example, in 1979, at the request of the NHK Science and Marine observation satellite 1 (MOS-1) or “Momo-1” Lunar orbit satellite KAGUYA (SELENE) Greenhouse gases observation satellite IBUKI (GOSAT) Super high definition High definition Standard
era that shoots the Moon’s surface and the Earth seen from the moon. All these lenses, which played a part in the second fully-fledged lunar exploration program after the Apollo program, were developed based on the technologies that the Fujifilm Group has accumu -
lated over 20 years.
FUJINON lenses are 
also mounted on IBUKI, which was launched in Jan-uary 2009. IBUKI has an im-portant mission to measure greenhouse gases that are causing serious problems on Earth, thereby contribut-ing to relevant research proj-ects. To full this mission, the satellite has been collecting valuable data from about 700 km above the Earth.Technology Research L a b o r a t o r i e s ,  t h e Fujifilm Group devel-oped the world’s first lenses for HD cameras. Subsequently in 1988, FUJINON lenses were used for the trial high-definition broadcasting of the Summer Olympics held in Seoul, which continued for 17 days in a row. The Fujifilm Group developed smaller and lighter lenses and epoch-making autofocus lenses called “Precision Focus (PF)” lenses for high-definition cameras, because it proved difficult even for profession-al photographers to adjust the focus on these cameras. These lenses are now used by many broadcasting stations both inside and outside Japan. In the broadcasting indus-try, the development of technologies for super HD and stereoscopic images has already started, and FUJINON lenses are expected to play an important role in the next generation technologies.
ʫ ʫ  Heavy responsibility and strong motivation are  
constantly present
All the huge rockets are designed to launch satellites, but the 
satellites cannot play their intended role if the lenses mounted on them stop functioning. With this heavy responsibility constantly in my mind, I have devoted myself to designing lenses. The valuable data delivered by these satellites, however, contributes significantly to the progress of society and so I also feel a strong motiva-tion in my job as an engineer.VOICE
Minoru Kurose
Operations Manager of  
the Optical Device Business Division
FUJINON Corporation
VOICE
Minoru Tanaka  (left)
Tadashi Sasaki (right)
Associate Managers
Design, Television Lenses 
Department
FUJINON Corporationʫ ʫ  Honing technologies in response to demanding requests 
from professionals
Lenses for high-definition cameras need to be extremely high 
precision in all aspects. We were able to develop lenses that met these requirements because we did everything by ourselves with-in the company, including the design, processing, and assembly of lenses and parts, and also because we had outstanding engi-neers who we consider to be “contemporary master craftsmen.” Moreover, we have been able to improve our technologies by responding to demanding requests from professional photogra-phers.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 10 11 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009FUJINON sends its lenses to the Moon in Kaguya based on  
the 20 years of experience producing lenses for use in spaceLens technology that contributes to the progress of the TV industryDeveloping the world’s first lens for high-definition TV cameras
FUJINON lenses used for TV filming
Multi band imager and terrain camera 
which uses FUJINON lenses
©JAXA
Stereoscopic image of the Moon landform 
created using observation data  
from the terrain cameraEarly TV cameras with lenses  
for black-and-white broadcasting©JAXA ©JAXA©NHK
©NHK
 ©NHK
 ©NHK
©JAXA/SELENE©JAXA February 1987 September 2007  January 2009CASE 1 CASE 2
©NHK
©NHKFeature: Enhancing Quality of LifeLife Imaging/Information,  
Life Safety/Security, and Life Cure/Care
The Fujifilm Group began marketing X-ray films in 1936, 
soon after its foundation, and now we expand our busi-ness worldwide for X-ray diagnosis, Sonography diagno -
sis, and Endoscope diagnosis. We have long been deeply involved in the medical field and have recently been fos-tering proactive expansion strategies to make medical and health care business one of our core businesses.
We call the diagnosis business in which we have 
already achieved significant results the “Life Imaging/In -
formation” field and we now aim to expand our business to include the “Life Safety/Security” field (such as an air purifier) and the “Life Cure/Care” field (treatment and pre-ventive medicine). In other words, we will be involved with “life” from various aspects in our life science business.
Encouraging exchanges among researchers’ capability of new drug development through cross-industrial collaborationsHuman exchanges Animal experiments
Since Toyama Chemical joined the Fujifilm 
Group in March 2008, Toyama and FUJIFILM have implemented many joint projects, including joint research into FTD; screening of a library of 200,000 chemical compounds for drug discov-ery; applied research into imaging technologies;  improvements in productivity; and projects relat-ed to intellectual property. In these joint projects,  the two companies began to encourage human exchanges, including an exchange of research-ers. In order to maximize the merits of cross-industrial collaboration between a chemical manufacturer and a drug discovery company, human exchanges are encouraged under the slogan “Respect each other.” Researchers at FUJIFILM gain inspiration from their counterparts at Toyama Chemical, who show strong patience and concentration in manufacturing and can deal flexibly with new information, while researchers of Toyama Chemical are impressed with our cor-porate culture which allows people at FUJIFILM to focus on quality and reliability. The joint re-search projects are thus beginning to generate synergy effects. 
Animal welfare in research activities is ensured by enhanced collaboration among Group companies
In the process of developing chemicals and phar -
maceuticals, we need to conduct animal experi-
ments to confirm the safety and effectiveness of the products on human health. In the interests of animal welfare, however, we believe it essential to conduct animal experiments only when they are really necessary. Based on this commitment and to comply with the Act on the Welfare and Management of Animals implemented in Japan, we have rules in place and committees monitor-ing animal experiments at our related facilities. Also, we have ethical rules on animals for the entire Group and have a committee on animals ethics to ensure appropriate animal experiments.
In March 2009, members of FUJIFILM, 
FUJIFILM RI Pharma, and Toyama Chemical, which are all conducting animal experiments, and the environmental safety supervisor of Fuji Xerox had a meeting to exchange information on animal ethics and environmental safety. Based on the results of this meeting, we will improve the management of animal experiments and the sharing of relevant information by holding similar meetings regularly, thereby promoting the “3Rs” (replacement, reduction, and refinement) for ani-mal experiments.Shifting from diagnostic imaging of 
morphologies to imaging the functioning of organs
The Fujifilm Group was an expert in the diagnostic imag-
ing of morphologies. For example, in X-ray examinations of tuberculosis, images of the inflamed area were taken for diagnosis. Now, however, as a result of establishing FUJIFILM RI Pharma in 2007,
*1 our diagnostic imaging Moreover, the FTD technology*3 developed by FUJIFILM 
has a lot in common with the drug delivery technology*4 
for pharmaceuticals. If it becomes possible to deliver a medical agent to its destination in the appropriate amount and manner using FTD technology, concerns over side ef-fects will decrease and the latitude for new drug develop-ment will be substantially increased.
We will also expand our business further and faster 
in the area of prevention, where we have Astalift (cosmet-ics developed based on research into collagens and antioxidation tech-nologies) as well as Me-tabarrier and Oxibarrier (nutritional supplements).technology has been advanced to a level where we can take images of the functioning of the body. This company is an expert in radiopharmaceuticals, and by combining its technologies with our existing diagnostic systems, we can now provide medical practitioners with systems to check even the functioning of internal tissue, including the func-tioning of internal organs and intralesional situations.
In addition to advancing the level of diagnosis, the 
introduction of radiopharmaceuticals has also contributed to the better treatment of disease. Radiopharmaceuticals are useful for the diagnosis of lesions, including those caused by cancers, and can also work as therapeutic ra-diopharmaceuticals if the function to suppress the patho-gen is added to the medical agent. In February 2009, we became more involved in this business by increasing our stake in Perseus Proteomics, a venture concerned with antibody-based therapeutics,
*2 to more than 75%, making 
it a subsidiary. The Fujifilm Group is thus further advanc-ing its diagnostic imaging technology by adding the imag-ing of functioning and expanding its life science business to integrate the fields of diagnosis and treatment. 
Toyama Chemical’s participation in the 
Group accelerates the treatment and prevention businesses 
We made great progress in the field of treatment after 
Toyama Chemical joined the Fujifilm Group in 2008. This R&D-oriented company was founded in 1936 and achieved its growth through its synthesis technology. At present, it focuses on anti-infective agents, CNS and cardiovascular agents, and anti-inflammatory agents and is one of the top companies in terms of the number of new drugs marketed. On the other hand, FUJIFILM has a library of more than 200,000 chemical compounds as a result of its R&D activities for photographic film. Combin-ing this valuable library, which provides the “source” for developing new drugs, with the technologies of Toyama Chemical, we aim to dramatically expand the range and accelerate the speed of drug discovery.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 12 13 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Yuzo Toda
Director and  
Corporate Vice PresidentGeneral Manager of  the Life Science  Products DivisionFUJIFILM CorporationFUJIFILM’s resourcesToyama Chemical
Development of  
low-molecular  
pharmaceuticals
FUJIFILM  
RI Pharma
Development, manufacture, 
and marketing of 
radiopharmaceuticals
FUJIFILM 
Finechemicals
Production of materials  
for pharmaceuticalsPerseus  
Proteomics
Development of  
antibody-based  
therapeuticsFUJIFILM  
Medical
Design, development, and 
marketing of medical network 
systems and equipment 
and provision of related 
technological  
servicesLibrary of  
chemical 
compoundsFTD  
technologySynthesis 
and analysis 
technologies
▶ Synergies for the Group’s 
medical business
Joint research membersExchanging 
information on en-vironmental safety tests conducted using underwater creatures (water fleas)Synergy 1 
Synergy 2 Building a Comprehensive Life Science Business 
Covering Prevention, Diagnosis, and Treatment
In addition to examinations, diagnosis, treatment, nutritional supplements, and cosmetics, the Fujifilm Group has 
now entered the pharmaceuticals business, and is now developing its life science business covering the three fields of prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.Activities in the Life Science Business
Part 2
*1.  Established by acquiring shares in Daiichi Radioisotope Laboratories, Ltd. and changing the corporate name
*2.  Pharmaceutical agents that make use of the natural immune system, specifically antibodies that bind with specified proteins
*3.  Formulation, targeting and delivery (FTD) technology is a technology to formulate ingredients and materials functionally into the desired chemicals and deliver them to targeted sites freshly, 
stably, and timely in an appropriate amount to ensure the durability of the effect.
*4.  Technology to deliver medical agents effectively to the targeted diseased part Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifeToyama Chemical is creating pharmaceuticals by con-
centrating its R&D in the following three areas: the “anti-infective agents,” the “central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular agents,” and the “anti-inflammatory agents.” Recently, the company has created the T-5224 anti-rheumatic drug and the T-817 MA Alzheimer’s disease and is now attracting much more social attention with the development of the T-705 anti-flu agent.
As one of the reasons for this strong attention, T-705 
has a working mechanism that differs from that of currently-available anti-flu drugs. While existing drugs only slow down viral replication, T-705 can prevent viral replication, so it is expected to work effectively even if not taken im-mediately after infection. Also, T-705 is thought to be effective against viruses that are resistant to established drugs. Based on the experiments at Utah State University, 
The Fujifilm Group is developing its healthcare business 
comprehensively for the prevention, diagnosis, and treat-ment of disease. In November 2008, we marketed the KPD1000 air purifier as a new product in the prevention field.
In accordance with the increase in people’s health 
awareness, the use of air purifiers has been expanding. In response, we developed the KPD1000 by using new technologies to equip it with antibacterial and antivirotic functions. For the antibacterial filter, we have adopted highly-active ultrafine grains of organic silver, which we developed by combining our long accumulated fine or -
ganic synthesis and fine particle technologies, making it FUJIFILM RI Pharma began marketing Zevalin
® in Japan in 
August of 2008 jointly with Bayer Yakuhin Ltd. Zevalin® is 
the world’s first radioisotope (RI)-labeled antibody-based therapeutic drug for lymphatic malignancies. 
Malignant Lymphoma is a kind of blood cancer. 
(Lymph cells that become cancerous multiply through the whole blood system.) In recent years, the number of pa-tients suffering from this disease has been clearly increas-ing. Zevalin
® is a drug that has both tumor recognition and 
destruction functions. Specifically, its major ingredient (monoclonal antibody) recognizes cancer cells and at-taches to the antigen, while the radioisotope Yttrium-90 (90Y) combined with the monoclonal antibody attacks the cancer cells. The sale of this therapeutic drug had al-ready been approved in more than 40 countries, including Europe and the United States and its marketing in Japan was long coveted.
For the manufacture of radioactive pharmaceuticals, 
it is necessary to have complex manufacturing technolo-gies, and because of the decrease in radioactivity over time, it is also important to have a system to supply them T-705 has been proved to be effective for bird flu (H5N1 Type). (Toyama Chemical is now making preparations to start the pivotal phase III clinical trials for T-705 in Japan in the winter of 2009.)
Amid concerns over the pandemic of a new strain of 
influenza, we believe it one of our social responsibilities to market T-705 as early as possible, and we are giving first priority to the development of the drug.speedily to medical institutions. FUJIFILM RI Pharma had been engaged in the manufacture and marketing of radio-active pharmaceuticals over 40 years and had abundant experience, knowledge, and reliable manufacturing and marketing systems for such drugs. Because of this, the company was chosen as the joint marketer for Zevalin
®.
Our radioactive diagnostic pharmaceuticals have 
been playing an essential role in the early detection and appropriate treatment of disease. In the future, we will further develop therapeutic drugs like Zevalin
®, utilizing 
the special features of radio-active rays.
possible for the filter to release silver ions effectively.
For the antivirotic filter, we have applied the new in-
fluenza virus antibody developed by Professor Yasuhiro Tsukamoto of Kyoto Prefectural University using the yolk of ostrich eggs, and the filter has proved dramatically successful in reducing the infectivity of (2) type A Soviet (H1N1), type A Hong Kong (H3N2) and type B influenza viruses and also of the Avian flu type A (H5N1) strain.
To provide a highly air freshening effect, the KPD1000 
contains two types of deodorizing filters, namely an acti-vated carbon filter that absorbs odors and a titanium oxide photo-catalyst filter that decomposes odor compounds. We are now promoting the use of this air purifier in rooms of between 6.6 and 13 square meters, offering the ben-efits of being super-quiet and of low power consumption, in addition to its unique antimicrobial and antivirotic func-tions.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 14 15 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Masuji Sugata
President of Toyama 
Chemical Co., Ltd.Misao Tsuda
President of FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd.
Working to prevent virus 
replication inside the cell
Preventing the viruses replicated inside from coming outExisting anti-influenza drugsInlﬂuenza virusGene of
inﬂuenza virusCellular membrane
Cellular membraneT-705
Existing anti-inﬂuenza drugs (neuraminidase inhibitors)Inside the cell
ReplicationT-705
Preventing influenza virus replication
Unable to prevent influenza virus replicationInside the cell
Inlﬂuenza virusGene of
inﬂuenza virusReplicationWorking to prevent virus 
replication inside the cell
Preventing the viruses replicated inside from coming outExisting anti-influenza drugsInlﬂuenza virusGene of
inﬂuenza virusCellular membrane
Cellular membraneT-705
Existing anti-inﬂuenza drugs (neuraminidase inhibitors)Inside the cell
ReplicationT-705
Preventing influenza virus replication
Unable to prevent influenza virus replicationInside the cell
Inlﬂuenza virusGene of
inﬂuenza virusReplication
Corporate ProfileCorporate Profile
■ Location:   3-2-5, Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-0023,  
Japan (Head office)  2-4-1, Shimo-Okui, Toyama-shi, Toyama 930-8508,  Japan (Toyama Works [Laboratories/Factory])
■ Established:   November 15, 1936
■ Capital:   37,400 million yen (as of March 31, 2009)
■ Business outline:   Manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals
■ Employees:   755 (as of March 31, 2009)
■  Major products: GENINAX (oral quinolone antibacterial agent), OZEX (quinolone antibacterial agent [oral/eyedrops]), PASIL (quinolone antibacterial agent for the injection), PENTCILLIN (penicillin)■ Location:   1-17-10, Kyobashi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0031, Japan 453-1, Shimo-Okura, Matsuo-Machi, Sammu-shi, Chiba 289-1592, Japan (Chiba Office [Chiba Plant/R&D Center])
■ Established:   December 5, 1968
■ Capital:   1,400 million yen (as of March 31, 2009)
■ Employees:   390 (as of March 31, 2009)
■  Major products: Diagnostic Radiopharmaceuticals: Brain Imaging Neurolite®, 
Heart Imaging Cardiolite®, Bone Imaging Techne® MDP , Malignant Tumor & 
Adrenal Imaging Gallium Citrate-Ga67, Therapeutic Radiopharmaceuticals: Sodium Iodide Capsules, Radiolabeled antibody-based therapeutic drug Zevalin
®
Website:   http://www.toyama-chemical.co.jp/en/index.html Website:   http://fri.fujifilm.co.jp/en/index.htmlTOYAMA CHEMICAL CO., LTD.FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd.
Yoichiro Kamiyama
Research Manager, in the Life 
Science Research LaboratoriesResearch and Development Management HeadquartersFUJIFILM Corporation
▶Mechanisms of action of T-705 and established anti-influenza drugsDrug candidate T-705 attracting much attention as  
anti-influenza agentJointly marketing Zevalin®, the world’s first approved  
radioimmunotherapyCASE 1
Highly antibacterial and antivirotic air purifier developed based 
on a new conceptCASE 2
CASE 3
DeodorizationDeodorization filter Antimicrobial AntiviroticVersatile bio-filter
Air flow
Activated carbon filter Photocatalyst filterPhotocatalyst filterActivated carbon filterOrganic silver filterAntibody filter
UV light  
sourceOdors removed by the activated carbon and photocatalyst filtersApplying organic silver synthesis technology developed in making photographic filmSuppressing viruses by using an antibody
Antimicrobial AntiviroticFeature: Enhancing Quality of LifeChanging the corporate logo shows  
our strong commitment to reform
Fuji Xerox introduced a new corporate logo in April 2008 
as a way to show our commitment to reforming our busi-ness model to provide clients with even better solutions globally. We are determined to think with clients and help them meet their management challenges as their business partner.
Fuji Xerox was the first company to commercialize a 
plain paper copy machine in Japan, which dramatically changed office operations in the country. Our business model was to rent machines and provide utility such as improving productivity and promoting communication in office operations. Based on this principle, we marketed our first plain paper copy machine in 1962, after which plain paper copy machines rapidly became popular. Along with spread of network and PCs, we further evolved copy machines—from digitization, multifunction, colorization 
▶Progress in office products provided by Fuji XeroxHistoryand networked, to office portals. In the course of this 
progress, however, competition intensified with a greater number of companies entering the business field, and it became difficult for us to maintain our competitive edge just by improving the performance of our products in terms of speed and quality. With the diversification and sophistication of our clients’ management and business requirements, we began to transform ourselves into a so-lutions provider that delivers new value to clients, using our accumulated know-how and technologies to handle documents.
Flow of documents shows the flow of 
communication
In corporate activities, a whole range of documents and 
slips are created, including proposals, reports, agree-ments, invoices, receipts, catalogues, and pamphlets. Documents include not only paper-based documents but problems regarding docu-ment flows, and help clients solve the problems identified and improve their operations.
In the Global Services 
business that we started in April 2007, we are of-fering outsourcing services focusing on clients’ document-related costs and business processes. In partnership with Xerox Corporation in the United States, we provide clients who are expanding their business globally with the same service across the world. By increasing the efficiency of document flows, we can help clients reduce their costs and improve their productivity.
In fiscal 2009, we have reorganized our marketing 
structure by dividing the organization by industry of cus-tomers to understand their needs more deeply and deliver optimal proposals to them. In addition, to respond to diversifying needs flexibly and promptly, we are strength-ening partnerships with IT vendors and system integra-tors. We will continue to support clients in solving their problems through the concerted efforts of all functions, from R&D to sales and marketing.also electronic contents such as text and audiovisual data exchanged via online networks. We regard all these as important management resources, and commit ourselves to supporting companies in efficiently managing and ef-fectively using documents as well as to helping them find solutions to their problems.
Communication is the basis of business, and is often 
through documents. The flow of documents therefore shows the flow of communication, and we deliver value to our clients in the form of streamlining, growth, and gover-nance in the whole document flow.
Contributing to streamlining, growth,  
and governance
In the face of the continuing economic recession, com-
panies regard streamlining (cost reduction) as a priority in their corporate management. In response, we provide consulting services and systems to help them optimize their print environment and manage and use documents efficiently. In addition, we are providing an integrated doc-ument management system, which uses copy machines as network portals to digitize paper information and link it with electronic data stored on the mission-critical system.
To achieve growth, we specifically help clients 
strengthen their customer relations (sales promotion, etc.) and create business. Our “direct 2 one” outsourcing ser -
vice, which supports one-to-one marketing using print-on-demand technology, is one of our representative services. In addition, our color management service that globally manages corporate color on prints is also contributing to growth and governance.
With governance, we provide consulting services and 
solutions to help clients comply with the so-called J-SOX law and carry out enterprise risk management (ERM). Specifically, we centrally manage documents distributed in the company, identify corporate governance related 
1997 2005 1998 1962 1982 1989 1992 Present
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 16 17 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Isamu Sekine
Corporate Vice President
Deputy Executive General Manager of  Sales & Marketing GroupFuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Link with business systemsNetwork system
8000INSOffice portals
ApeosPortPaper and digital 
integration
DocuWorksNetworked
Network AbleColorization
A-ColorDigitization and 
multifunction
AbleJapan’s first plain 
paper copy machine
Fuji Xerox 914▶Customer’s management challenges Helping Clients Meet Management Challenges:  
Focusing on Documents—a Must in Business
Fuji Xerox is in charge of the document solutions field, which is one of the three core 
business fields of the Fujifilm Group. The company is constantly developing to provide even better solutions to help clients solve their problems.
Part 3
ITStreamlining
(Cost reduction)
Governance
(Compliance)Growth
(Sales increase)
Activities in the Document Solutions Business
Input Input
Output OutputThe Internet LAN LANWorkflow 
system
Mission-critical 
system
Information  
sharing systemFeature: Enhancing Quality of LifeDeveloping a new business based on 
experience in ensuring compliance with J-SOX ahead of others
Companies face a range of risks in conducting their activi-
ties, including malfunction of their products, leakage of personal information, noncompliance, and natural disas-ters, and if they fail to deal with these issues appropriately, they risk not being able to continue in business. Recogniz-ing this, Fuji Xerox established the know-how and systems for the appropriate management of these risks and based on that experience, launched an enterprise risk manage-ment (ERM) service.
This new service originated from the enforcement of 
the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (so-called J-SOX law) in Japan in 2007. The law mandates Japanese listed companies to submit internal control reports and others in addition to financial reports to ensure that they have systems in place to prevent errors and illegal acts. Fuji Xerox began implementing measures to comply with J-SOX as early as 2005, before the guidelines were released and other companies began preparations to comply with the law. Based on the experience and know-how obtained in those compliance efforts and using the relevant tools we developed independently, we then suc-cessfully began giving support to companies in complying with J-SOX as a new business.
Centrally managing documents for ERM and 
building a comprehensive risk management system
As the core of our J-SOX compliance support service, 
we provide central management of paper and electronic documents and give advisory based on our own exper -
tise. Although the management of documents to comply Delivering information that meets the needs 
of individual clients
Due to the diversification of consumers’ habits, tastes, 
and lifestyles, it is becoming difficult to attract their atten-tion by sending the equal information to all. Accordingly, there is a business shift from mass marketing (delivering the same information to a large and indefinite number of people) to one-to-one marketing. Under these circum-stances, companies are urgently required to review their basic marketing approaches, regarding “how” they should send “what” information to “whom.”
To help companies meet this requirement, Fuji Xerox 
has launched the “direct 2 one” service, in which we fully support our clients in direct marketing from upstream to downstream, making the maximum use of our accumu-lated print-on-demand technologies.
Giving full support from data analysis to 
evaluation to ensure optimal communication
In the “direct 2 one” service, we design an optimal com-
munication scenario based on insight information on the client and propose an effective campaign plan. We have a team of marketing specialists, including experts in the upstream process, in order to provide clients with an un-precedented one-stop service on a continual basis.
As their best partner, Fuji Xerox proposes better mar-
keting methods to clients, instead of just providing them with variable data printing services. For example, we help them understand their own customers; identify the under-with J-SOX comes under the remit of the accounting department, the scope of documents to be managed can be expanded to build a comprehensive risk management system on a company-wide basis.
It is important for companies to have a central man-
agement system for all the information they have, which will enable them to identify the causes for emerging risks, to take recovery measures promptly, and to fulfill their ac-countability. It is certainly essential for them to be able to take appropriate responses in cases of emergency, and Fuji Xerox supports them in building the necessary sys-tems through ERM solutions.lying needs of those customers; and keep in continuous communication with each of them, thereby contributing to new business creation and their growth. 
Providing support for comprehensive risk management based on 
experience in ensuring compliance with the J-SOX  Giving customized services for one-to-one marketingCASE 1
ʫ ʫ  Attributing importance to carrying out measures to help 
clients solve problems 
The consulting team is in charge of sales activities and project 
management in an integrated manner and focuses intensively on how to incorporate the results of a project into subsequent projects. Customers who continuously use our services find value in the way we formulate their strategies: set targets, imple-ment measures, and review the results for the formulation of next strategies. We will continue to execute this PDCA cycle in coop-eration with our customers and support them in making optimal communications with their own customers.The “direct 2 one” service is a one-stop direct marketing service, which covers the entire marketing operations from the design of a campaign to its implementation.
Developing an optimal communication tool  
based on the clients’ insight data
VOICE
Yoshiko Toyoda
Consultant for “direct 2 one”
Production Services
Marketing
Production Services
Sales & Marketing
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
▶Tools for female office workers 
in their 20sVOICE
ʫ ʫ  Providing proven services based on our own experience
J-SOX is applicable to about 3,900 companies, and a number of 
companies are showing interest in our service proposals, after trying to establish the required system on their own and then finding it difficult to maintain the system. We have a wider range of potential clients for comprehensive risk management: more than 20,000 companies of a certain size that are seeking ISO cer-tification are potential clients.
In this business, it is also important to approach the top ex-
ecutives in our client companies. We can provide both consulting services to build an ERM system and the necessary software and hardware, which have been proven to be effective as a result of us using them in our own ERM system. We believe that our great-est competitive edge in our business is staying true to our words by providing proven services.
Masanori Kawahara (left)
Planning Manager
Solution Sales
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Yuhei Yano (right)
J-SOX Advisor
Solution Sales 
▶Tools for men in their 50sCASE 2
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 18 19 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009▶Overall picture of ERM solutions▶ Range of support provided by the “direct 2 one” service
Analyzing  
the present 
situation
Developing 
contentsEvaluation and 
reporting
Creation and 
deliveryPlanning  
a strategy
Formulating  
a conceptdirect 2 one
Recording and management of 
evidence documentsProcess
managementManagement challenges Advisory
˔Seminar
˔Individual counseling meeting
˔Documentation workshop
RepositoryTop executives˔Project management support service
˔Documentation support service
˔Design effectiveness support service
˔Internal audit support service
˔Educational services 
to prevent risks˔ERM diagnosis service
˔Rule formulation support service
˔Introduction of in-house 
examples˔Vital record management service
˔Support service for the formulation of 
pandemic inﬂuenza countermeasures
˔Introduction of in-house 
examples˔Product assessment support service
˔Filing training service ˔Document management advisory serviceRange of Fuji Xerox’s contribution
Use (accountability)
Estimates/agreements
Measurement datasheets/
test reportsDaily reports/
equipment inspection tables
Product specifications/
letters of collateralJ-SOX
ERMInternal control
Compliance
Business continuity
Product safety
Preventing
information leaksSeminar/education
ERM
support tool
Scanning of
evidence documents
Feature: Enhancing Quality of LifeFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 20 21 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
How the works of art used for the section title 
pages of this report are being preserved
National important cultural assets such as Shobutsu 
Ruisan  and Shobutsu Ruisan Zuyoku  are protected 
from direct sunlight, high temperatures and humidity, 
air pollutants, and dust in book storerooms that are air conditioned and maintained at a constant temperature of 20 degrees centigrade and a humidity of 50%. The storerooms are equipped with fluorescent lamps that do not emit ultraviolet rays, smoke detectors and INERGEN gas fire extinguishers.In this section, we introduce the major achievements made 
in fiscal 2008 for the priority areas and challenges described in the Fujifilm Group’s medium-term CSR plan. We also report on the Group’s CSR activities in the United States.
Human resources development in the Fujifilm Group …… 22
      
Stakeholder Dialogue 2009  …………………………… 24
Responses to the climate change problem …………… 26
Developing a CSR-oriented procurement framework …… 29
Conserving biodiversity ………………………………… 30
Social contribution activities:  
      Archiving Shogozo  scrolls in the Office of  
       the Shosoin Treasure House  ………………………… 32
Social contribution: volunteer planting in China  …………… 34
CSR activities in the United States …………………… 36CSR Highlights 2008Joint training to enhance synergy  
within the Group
The Fujifilm Group con-
ducted joint training programs for human exchange seven times during the period from February 2008 to Feb-ruary 2009, targeting  
middle-ranking em-ployees (e.g. section managers and lead -
ers) of Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, the two core operating companies for the Group.
The training was 
designed to provide participants with op-portunities to under -
stand, recognize, and discuss the detailed differences and com -
monalities in the cor -
porate cultures of the two companies and to identify specific themes to be tack-led from a Group viewpoint. Twelve employees from each of the companies participated in each seminar, including people from the sales, and research and development departments and head office. The four-day program, in -
cluding an overnight stay, has three themes: “creating and sharing a sense of comradeship in the Group,” “sharing the direction and challenges of the Group and identifying specific themes to be tackled,” and “proposing specific themes and actions.” As a result of the training, a total of 28 written proposals to foster group synergy were submit-ted to FUJIFILM Holdings. The submitted proposals were made into a brochure and copies were distributed to all participants of the training program so that they could all share the ideas in the proposals. 
MessageFocusing on awareness raising, 
enhancement of individual capabilities and cultural reform, and on developing  core human resources
In the new long-term management plan, we regard im-
provements to the way we develop human resource as an important strategy, focusing particularly on the following two themes: awareness raising, enhancement of individual capabilities and cultural reform, and the development of core human resources. In line with this policy and taking advantage of the holding company system, FUJIFILM Holdings is playing an important role as a facilitator for mutual exchanges and cooperation as well as in finding solutions to common problems among Fujifilm Group companies.
With our focus on awareness raising, enhancement of 
individual capabilities and cultural reform, we aim to en-courage all employees in the Group to raise awareness of their roles as “challengers” to the market and to improve their capabilities in dealing with the market and customers in an unassuming way. To this end, we began conduct-
I had been involved in information systems (microsys-
tems, etc.) and printing systems at Fujifilm until five years ago and often met with Fuji Xerox employees during my work. While recognizing that we belong to a common Group there are also differences in the cor -
porate cultures of the two companies, I had always thought that synergy and fusion between the two, both of which focus on images and information as their core businesses, would lead to greater possibilities. And now that the two companies are strengthening their mutual ties in the age of digitization, there are even more com-mon areas in the fields of images and information and communication. If these two operating companies can cooperate and learn from each other and generate syn-ing joint seminars for Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox employees in fiscal 2008 and since then have held our FF/FX Synergy Training program for middle-ranking employees seven times and our Seminar for Leaders for senior managers eight times. These seminars showed us that employees of the two companies held prejudices against each other, dif-ferent perspectives on doing business, and boundaries to their actions that hinder the generation of synergy effects. At the same time, however, we are convinced that these seminars will provide employees with opportunities to overcome these boundaries. For this reason, we feel that it is important to continue to hold similar seminars in 2009 onwards.
In focusing on the development of core human re-
sources, we will promote further exchanges between Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox, in order to develop effective core human resources who will play a central role in the Fujifilm Group and strengthen the management of the two compa-nies. Also, by promoting human exchange with overseas business sites across the entire Group, we want to accel-erate the development of global human resources.
ergy based on the premise that employees in both com-panies can enhance their own capabilities, I am sure that the Fujifilm Group will gain an unrivalled com-petitive advantage.
Enhancing Human Resources Development  
in the New Long-Term Management Plan
The value of generating a Group synergyMessageIn the face of the great changes made to its business environment, the Fujifilm Group has listed enhancing human 
resources development as one of its basic strategies in its new long-term management plan.Human resources development in the Fujifilm Group
VOICE VOICESeminar for Leaders raises awareness
The Fujifilm Group 
encourages employ-ees to increase their awareness, strengthen their individual capa-bilities, and reform the corporate culture as a basis for formulat-ing and implement-ing its new long-term management plan, which will show future growth strategies to be implemented in the dramatically changing business environment. Based on this, we held a Seminar for Leaders eight times from August to Decem-ber 2008, targeting some 240 divisional and departmental managers and group leaders in Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox.
Managers participating in the seminars are to serve 
as reform leaders, focusing on discussing the current situ-ation in their workplaces, beyond the boundaries of what the companies should do to foster reform. Each partici-pant made a declaration to lead reform. 
After participating in the overnight seminar, reform 
leaders have a stronger sense of risk and commitment to reform in the workplace, and are communicating what they learned at the seminar to those around them. We will continue to hold these seminars to increase employee awareness of the importance of reform.
ʫ ʫ  Results of training: a strong commitment to generating 
the forms of synergy suggested in the proposals
After reading the proposals of the participant teams at the end of 
the training, I realized that their commitment to generating forms of synergy across the Group was stronger than expected, and this convinced me that the training had provided them with good opportunities to move forward in generating synergy across the Group. We plan to hold this training program again in fiscal 2009 and hope that it will lead to the creation of a wider network of human resources and en-hance the development of human resources within the Group.ʫ ʫ  Stronger commitment to accelerating reform and 
increasing a sense of unity
At the Seminar for Leaders, participants increased their sense of 
risk and commitment to accelerating reform and also strength -
ened ties and a sense of unity. Since participating in the semi -
nar, they have been meeting together voluntarily to confirm the progress made in achieving their targets. In the future, we will introduce similar activities that provide employees with a variety of opportunities.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 22 23 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Participants in the third training program
Participants in the fourth training program
Participants in the training program were  
divided into four groups.
Seminar for Leaders
Seminar for Executive Officers  
in Charge of Reforms
Kiyotaka Fukino
Manager of the Personnel Division
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Nobuyuki Okamura
Director and Corporate 
Vice President of FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationExecutive Vice President and Representative Director of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
Iwao Kobayakawa
Manager of the Personnel Division
FUJIFILM Holdings CorporationCSR Highlights 2008TOPIC
Corporate Profile
■ Location:   Guanlan Dahe Village, Changqing Industrial Area, 
Bao An Shenzhen, China
■ Established:   June 1995 (started production in May, 1996)
■ Capital:   US$ 38 million
■ Employees:   5,271 (as of March 31, 2009) * Chinese employees including temporary staff 5,241, Japanese 30
■  Major products: Development, production and sales of printers, copiers, multifunction devices, CRU and related parts
Website:   http://www.fxsz.com.cn/  (in Chinese only)Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.Toshihiko Okaji
Director & General Manager of  
Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.
Frank opinions given by participants on  
the significance of the training program
The Fujifilm Group 
holds stakeholder  dialogue meetings on various themes and re-gards these meetings, which provide oppor -
tunities for bidirectional communication, as an important CSR activ -
ity in the Group. One such meeting was a dialogue on the Synergy Training, which targeted middle-ranking em-ployees in Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox. The dialogue meeting was held on June 9, 2009, with 16 employees, personnel directors, and human resources development staff from within the Fujifilm Group participating in the training. At-tendants reviewed the training from their own positions and discussed measures to generate and increase syn-ergy across the Group.
Corporate Vice President Watanabe of FUJIFILM 
Holdings, who attended the meeting as an observer, first outlined the purpose of the dialogue meeting and then a training manager gave an outline. Subsequently, those who had participated in the training program talked about what they had experienced and learned. Some of their comments were: “We were able to discuss specific mat-ters, which is not practical at general cross-industrial meetings,” “I learned the importance of creating a mutual corporate culture in generating true synergy, in addition to mutual technologies and businesses,” and “Participants confirmed that it is important to share expectations, be-liefs, and a sense of risk in order to generate synergy.” In addition, some described cases of voluntary cooperation that emerged after the training with comments such as, “We are holding ongoing meetings to discuss the possi-bilities of joint projects for technological development and production technologies,” “Head office staff at the two companies are planning an event to build stronger cama-raderie among Group employees,” and “We asked members to cooperate with us, knowing that they have accumulated relevant business data.”Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen, which is a production subsidiary of Fuji Xerox, is implementing its own 
Employees Assistance Program (EAP) to support employees in developing their capabilities and careers and maintaining and improving their mental health.Human resource development at Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd.:  
Supporting the development of individual employees
▶ List of training courses provided in fiscal 2006 to 2008 (Extraction)
* Education for leadersTotal number of participants: 9,689
Training theme Number of participants
Career planning and work-life balance 209
Conduct in the workplace 204
Love, friendship, and sex 218
Good habits for higher productivity 100
Creating highly productivity teams* 69
Stress management 104
Examination of social disorders* 33
Roles of leaders on production lines* 44
Work-life balance 20
Managing your emotions 56Starting an EAP to help younger employees 
manage stress and worry
As is often the case with 
companies in South China, Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen Ltd. has teenage produc-tion line workers who came to the city to work straight after graduating from rural schools. We started an EAP in 2006 after becoming aware that a lot of employees had communication problems with their managers and colleagues. They also had a variety of problems and no one to talk to about their worries and dissat-isfaction. We obtained these findings from a survey we con-ducted on the stresses employees were experiencing in their personal lives and at work.
More than 9,600 employees participate in  
50 courses over three years
The EAP consists of various courses, on subjects such as “com-
munication and human relationships,” “managing stress,” “men-tal health and managing your life,” and “ideas and concepts for teamwork.” These are said to be commonly-experienced themes in South China, and Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen holds the courses in cooperation with a local NPO called the Institute for Contemporary Observation (ICO) and an organization special-izing in mental health. All employees participate in the manda-tory course on “communication and human relationships” and we also provide them with a range of optional courses at their request, including courses on “friendship and managing emo-tions,” “career planning,” and “basic economic knowledge.”We also offered group leaders at the factory education on how to lead in addition to education on business management, in order to support them in encouraging communication with others both in their private lives and in business, and in devel-oping their own careers.
Improving employee satisfaction with a 
hotline and face-to-face counseling service
In cooperation with an organization specializing in mental 
health, we opened a hotline and face-to-face counseling service to support employees’ mental health. Any employee can use these counseling services for any problem, either by phone or face-to-face outside of working hours. Through these services, we provide young employees who have no one to talk to about their problems with opportunities to seek advice on psychological and physical problems.
By supporting young employees in developing not only 
as workers but also as individuals, we can increase their moti-vation, and they will then value their own growth and look after their mental health. This will in turn lead to greater employee satisfaction at work and for the company. Fuji Xerox of Shenzhen will continue to provide these services.
Educational program  
implemented in ShenzhenThe Fujifilm Group began conducting FF/FX Synergy 
Training in 2008, with the aim of fostering reform. To incorporate the results of this training in future seminars, we held a stakeholder dialogue meeting at which participants exchanged opinions. Verifying the results of Synergy Training  
through stakeholder dialogueDIALOG
Looking back on the training  
brings a smile to the face
[Participants in the dialogue meeting]
●Facilitator:
Mikiya Izuma, Principal, Fuji Xerox Learning Institute (FXLI*)
*  FXLI is mainly engaged in providing corporate groups with consultation on human resource development for organizational reform.
●From the organizer of the meeting:
Three directors in charge of personnel affairs at FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm, and Fuji Xerox and five employees in charge of human resource development at the personnel departments of FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm, and Fuji Xerox
●From the participants in the training:
Eight middle-ranking employees engaged in R&D, production technologies, sales, and staff 
administration at Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox
Talking about post-training voluntary cooperationVOICE
Mikiya Izuma
Principal
Fuji Xerox Learning Instituteʫ ʫ  Expecting more results from the best possible 
complementary relationship
This dialogue meeting has convinced me that Fujifilm and Fuji 
Xerox are building the best possible complementary relationship based on the best mix of differences and commonalities between the two companies. I was impressed with the generosity of man-agement, who believe that greater possibilities will emerge from synergy between the two companies and patiently encouraged middle-ranking employees in activities to generate synergy. I believe that these valuable efforts will lead to better achievements in managing the Group’s business, which in turn will help it meet the needs of society.Continuing to implement training programs 
and other activities to make all Group employees aware of the importance of reform
In addition to the positive comments on the results of the 
training, participants at the dialogue meeting reconfirmed the importance of continuing the training program and de-vising measures to incorporate the 28 proposals made by the participants into the Group’s business management plans. Finally, Corporate Vice President Okamura, who was in charge of organizing the Synergy Training gave a closing speech in which he said, “The training represents a first step in making all Group employees aware of the importance of promoting reform, and I want participants in the training program to become reform leaders and com-municate its importance to those around them. We will also continue to search for ways to accelerate reform.”
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 24 25 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009CSR Highlights 2008Achievements up to fiscal 2008
The Fujifilm Group has been implementing anti-global 
warming measures intensively at its six factories in Ja-pan,
*1 whose CO 2 emissions account for about 60% of the 
total CO 2 emissions of the Group, and has set challenging 
targets for each of the factories.*2 In 2003, we started to 
convert our fuel to natural gas and have been implement-ing a range of other measures, including improving the energy efficiency of our factories.
In fiscal 2006, two factories started to manufacture flat 
panel displays and the total CO
2 emissions from the six fac-
tories, including these two, was 900,000 tons. Both in fiscal 2007 and 2008, however, emissions decreased as a result of measures such as installing energy safety equipment and converting fuel to natural gas.
Of the six factories in Japan, the total CO
2 emissions 
for the existing four factories (the Ashigara and Odawara Sites of the Kanagawa Factory, the Fujinomiya Factory, and the Yoshida-Minami Factory) have decreased to less than the 1990 level. On the other hand, as a result of the substantial decrease in production following the slump in the global economy, production efficiency declined. As a result, both the energy consumption and CO
2 emissions 
increased in fiscal 2008 from the previous fiscal year.
*1.  Six major chemical factories in Japan (the Ashigara and Odawara Sites of the Kanagawa 
Factory, the Fujinomiya Factory, the Yoshida-Minami Factory, FUJIFILM Opto Materials Co., Ltd., and FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.)
*2.  To decrease energy use by 30% and CO
2 emissions by 40% by 2012 (from the 1990 
level)
The future
We plan to convert all 
the fuel used at the Ka-nagawa Factory’s Ashi-gara Site to natural gas by September 2009, thereby reducing CO
2 
emissions from the site by 56,000 tons a year. We expect that total CO
2 emissions from the 
six factories in Japan will reduce by at least 160,000 tons as a result of converting the fuel to natural gas in fiscal 2010.
We will further reduce total CO
2 emissions from the 
six factories by making investments in energy-saving equipment and implementing measures to increase ef-ficiency. However, if it becomes difficult to achieve this target by fiscal 2012, we may need to examine using our emission rights (obtained by participating in the Commu-nity Development Carbon Fund of the World Bank).
Also, each operating company in the Fujifilm Group 
will set its CO
2 emission reduction target for around 
2020 and will make a concerted effort to prevent global  warming.To manufacture cel -
lulose triacetate (TAC) film, it is necessary to keep the supple-mentary machines, including the compres-sors, operating even when the film-casting machine itself is not in operation. The Ashigara Site has taken on the challenge of reducing power consumption while the machinery is not in full operation and has introduced energy conservation measures for the supplementary machines, including mini-mizing the number of compressors actually in operation.
The Odawara Site introduced a method to “visualize” the power consumption at the beginning of 2008. At present, 80% of the origin of consumption is identified to the build-ing level, and 40% to the individual equipment level.
All employees at the Fujinomiya Factory are conducting 
activities to find out and eliminate waste and losses. Air needs to be supplied to the manufacturing equipment from air compressors, and if the air leaks from the pipes or machines, this leads to wasted energy. The factory conducted tests to find out and eliminate all air leaks. Energy conservation at the Kanagawa Factory’s Ashigara Site
Visualizing the power consumption at the Kanagawa Factory’s Odawara Site
“No Air Leaks!” at the Fujinomiya FactoryFirst example in Japan
Second example in Japan
Third example in Japan
Members of the Ashigara Site  
Anti-Global Warming Committee  
(in charge of the energy conservation project)
Members of the Odawara Site  
Anti-Global Warming Committee
Checking that no air is leaking,  
using an air leakage monitorIdentifying the site of the leak  
using soapy water
Members of the Fujinomiya Factory  
Anti-Global Warming Committee Activity and results (estimates for fiscal 2009)
˔ CO 2 emission reduction: 1,790 tons    ˔ Cost reduction: 56 million yen
Activity and results (estimates for fiscal 2009)
˔ CO 2 emission reduction: 4,522 tons    ˔ Cost reduction: 121 million yen
Activity and results (actual results for fiscal 2008)
˔ CO 2 emission reduction: 600 tons    ˔ Cost reduction: 12 million yen
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 26 27 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 200956%
17%27%
˙
˙˙Six factories in Japan
Other sites in Japan
Outside JapanImplementing Versatile Anti-Global Warming 
Measures Globally 
We will reduce the total CO 2 emissions of the Fujifilm Group based on the knowledge gained from reducing 
emissions at our six factories in Japan.Responses to the climate change problem
▶Breakdown of CO 2 emissions (fiscal 2008)▶ Hourly power consumption before and after introducing  
the visualization system
▶CO2 emissions at the six major factories in Japan
02000004000006000008000001000000
020406080100Two new factories
Additional reductionFour existing factories CO 2 emissions
Targeted CO 2 emissions
0400,000
200,000600,000800,0001,000,000(Tons) (%)˔ ˙ ˙
˙ ˙
199010097 87
81 83
60
2000 2006 2007 2008 2012040100
6080
20
Natural gas equipment at the Kanagawa Factory’s 
Ashigara Site
▶ External evaluation
Receiving Company Details Awarding Organization
FUJIFILM Holdings Ranked as No. 1 in the 
chemical industry in the Survey on Corporate Action and Management Systems for Climate Change (targeting 700 listed companies)Integrex Inc.
FUJIFILM HoldingsIncluded in the Japanese CDLI (with a score of 88 points, the third highest among 149 Japanese companies)Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
˙Feb.19, 2009 ˙Feb.19, 2008
Always turning  
the power off  at night Changing the 
air conditioner temperature settingCSR Highlights 2008emissions by one kilogram per person per day, which is 
the target set by Team Minus 6% supported by the Japa-nese Ministry of the Environment. Employees are also par-ticipating in the Candle Night project, encouraging eco-driving habits, and supporting “No Car Day” campaigns in their private lives.
good competition among the bases in reducing energy 
use and CO
2 emissions.
first wind power generation facilities in the area, in the spring of 2012. The factory will be able to sell the surplus power generated through the national power transmission network.CSR-Oriented Procurement  
Based on Partnership with Suppliers
The Fujifilm Group is improving its conventional green procurement activities to a higher level in cooperation with 
its suppliers.Developing a CSR-oriented procurement framework
Understanding the actual situation  
and studying how to formulate  a procurement policy
Fujifilm introduced green procurement (selection of sup-
pliers and products to be procured) in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2006, we added new items to our survey on the envi-ronmental friendliness of our suppliers, including items such as “compliance,” “quality and safety,” “information security,” “fair trade and ethics,” “safety and health,” and “human rights and labor,” in order to promote CSR-oriented procurement.
In the past, we conducted CSR surveys target-
ing suppliers, but did not proactively implement CSR-related measures for them. In fiscal 2008, to enhance the implementation process and range of the survey, we held a conference of CSR-oriented procurement facilitators, which comprised members from the departments related to CSR, materials procurement, and environmental issues in FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm, and FUJIFILM Business Expert after investigating the actual status of procurement in the Fujifilm Group, including at its affiliates. The confer-ence has been studying how to formulate the Group’s pro-curement policies and methods to ensure CSR-oriented procurement.
Starting pilot surveys and establishing the 
basis for CSR-oriented procurement
In fiscal 2009, our departments in charge of procurement 
will conduct pilot surveys among suppliers to establish the basis for CSR-oriented procurement across the Group. In order to increase the effectiveness of CSR-oriented pro-curement, we will encourage two-way communications with suppliers in addition to sending out a questionnaire, which is a one-way communication tool, so that suppliers can understand our ideas on CSR-oriented procurement.
Conference of CSR-oriented procurement facilitatorsThe ICE Project
The “Ideas for Cool Earth (ICE) Project,” which is a team activity to reduce CO
2 emissions, was 
started in the spring of 2008, tar -
geting a total of about 20,000 employees of Fujifilm and its affiliates.
Under this project, employees are encouraged to 
turn off lights, encourage eco-driving habits, and follow the “Cool Biz” and “Warm Biz” dress codes to conserve energy in the workplace, while at home with their families they are taking on the “ICE challenge” of leading more environmentally friendly lives in order to reduce their CO
2 
Implementing “FUJIFILM unplugged”At the beginning of 2009, the Fujifilm Group started its “FUJIFILM unplugged” energy conservation activity tar -
geting more than 100 production, warehouse and distri-bution, and sales offices of Fujifilm Group companies in the United States with the participation of all employees (about 6,000), in order to prepare for the regulations to be imposed on CO
2 emissions from business activities. At 
the bases, energy managers are assigned to visualize the energy consumption. A website on which the bases can share relevant information has been opened to promote 
Introducing wind power generators
FUJIFILM Manufactur -
ing Europe B.V., which is located in Tilburg in the Netherlands, is planning to install wind power generators within its premises in cooperation with Evel -
op International of the Netherlands. At present, they are following the procedures to obtain environmental approval and a construction permit from the government, and are aiming to start operating the generators, which will be the Measures taken in offices and at home (Fujifilm and its affiliates)
Measures taken at production, distribution, and sales sites  
(More than 100 bases of Fujifilm Group companies in the United States)
Measure taken at the production site of FUJIFILM Manufacturing Europe B.V.  
(a factory in the Netherlands)Fourth example in Japan
First example outside Japan
Second example outside Japan
Measures
˔  Replacing lights with more 
efficient fluorescent lamps
˔  Introducing more efficient air-conditioning equipment
˔  Raising awareness 
˔  Introducing motion and temperature sensors
˔  Turning off unnecessary 
lights Effects expected in 
three years (in 2012)
●  Annual CO 2 reduction: 
29,350 tons 
(Equivalent to a 15% reduction)
Specifications of the facilities and the result
˔  Wind power generators:  
Five (with a capacity to produce up to 3 MW per unit)
˔  Power generation:  About 22,000 MWh/year (equivalent to 28% of annual purchase)
˔  Annual CO 2 reduction:  
About 15,000 tons (equivalent to 15% of annual emissions)
Image pictureNumber of participants of the ICE Challenge 2008  
and the result
˔ Participants: 12,355    ˔ CO 2 emission reduction: 559 tons
The campaign to reduce CO 2 emissions from households 
was implemented in the winter of 2008 (for three months 
from October to December).
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 28 29 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009▶ Plan to ensure CSR-oriented procurement (for fiscal 2009)
▶Form of the questionnaire on the environmental friendliness of suppliers
FUJIFILM  
Holdings
Procurement 
departments
SuppliersReviewing and formulating  
the next fiscal year’s plan
Checking
Replies
SubmittingFollowing up and monitoring the implementation process
Following up and monitoring the implementation processFormulating and announcing  
the Fujifilm Group’s procurement policy
Reviewing the details of the survey on  
the environmental friendliness of suppliers
Checking detailed improvements/corrections Collection, tabulation, and evaluation
Replies Improvements and corrective and preventive measuresConducting pilot surveysFeedback and request s for 
improvements/correctionsRaising awareness of 
the Fujifilm Group’s procurement policyCSR Highlights 2008Starting with What We Can Do  
to Conserve Biodiversity
The Fujifilm Group believes that the biodiversity problem is as critical as climate change. Biological resources, 
which are the basis for the existence of humankind and for all corporate activities, cannot be secured without biodiversity. Based on this recognition, we are implementing measures to conserve biodiversity across the Group.Conserving biodiversity 
Formulating basic concepts
We regard tackling the biodiversity problem as one of our 
basic responsibilities, which will in turn help us achieve social and corporate sustainability.Awareness-raising among employees
In order to raise awareness of the biodiversity problem among employees, Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox cooperated in publishing feature articles on biodiversity in their in-house magazines and on their intranets to help employees learn about the basics and deepen their understanding of pres-ent problems and challenges.Doing what we can:  
Supporting the Monitoring Sites 1000 project
The Monitoring Sites 1000 project was launched in fiscal 2003 by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment based on its national strategy for biodiversity. This project aims to detect signs of ecosystem degradation as early as pos-sible by conducting long-term (100-year) monitoring sur -
veys at 1,000 selected sites across Japan, which will help implement measures to conserve biodiversity rapidly.
Survey items are chosen for each ecosystem, specifi-
cally for local mountain areas, forests, lakes and marsh-land, and coastal areas. The Biodiversity Center of Japan is encouraging networking among researchers, local ex -
perts, and NGOs and NPOs, who will cooperate with the monitoring surveys.
FUJIFILM Holdings donated 1,000 negative films (ISO 
speed rating: 800) for surveys to be conducted on mam-mals, in response to a request from the Nature Conserva-tion Society of Japan, which is serving as a coordinator in monitoring surveys on local mountain areas. (The number of films donated is enough for the mammal surveys that will be conducted in fiscal 2009.)
We are regularly discussing the kind of support need-
ed and types of cooperation with the Biodiversity Center of Japan and the Nature Conservation Society of Japan in the search for more specific forms of cooperation.On June 1, 2009, FUJIFILM Holdings established the  Fujifilm Group Guidelines for Biodiversity to clarify the Group’s policy on conserving biodiversity and support the implementation of specific measures.
Fujifilm: We’ll
Fuji Xerox: Xerox Life▶In-house magazines▶Intranet “INSITE”
ʫ ʫ  Achieving more than expected with a sensor camera
We are conducting 
monitoring surveys on mammals living on local mountain areas at 54 sites across Ja-pan using infrared ray sensor cameras. The surveys are obtaining valuable data, includ-i n g  t h e  e x p a n d e d distribution of foreign s p e c i e s  a n d  l o c a l fauna. We cannot take pictures of nocturnal mammals like foxes that move very quickly without a camera and high-speed film, but with the digitization of cameras, it is becom-ing difficult for us to procure the necessary equipment. Under these circumstances, we feel very grateful for the support given to us by the Fujifilm Group and also highly appreciate the Group studying ways to co-operate with us beyond just providing film.VOICE
A wary fox carries a dead rabbit  
in its mouth at night
Photo: The Biodiversity Center of Japan,  
Ministry of the Environment;  
Nature Conservation Society of Japan and  
the Satoyama Shizen Gakko Hazumi-no Sato NPOAll Fujifilm Group employees including Fuji Xerox can also access the 
ALL FUJIFILM GROUP INSITE website. The website address is given in the feature articles on biodiversity published in the in-house maga-zine (
Xerox Life ) to promote information sharing across the Group. On 
the INSITE website, steps on how to conserve biodiversity as well as data from questionnaires and stakeholder dialogues are also intro-duced.
Mayuko Fukuda
Research Division
Nature Conservation Society of Japan
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 30 31 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Basic Concepts
Action GuidelinesFujifilm Group Guidelines for Biodiversity
In order to create a sustainable society, we have a responsibility to sincerely address serious problems currently 
facing us to eliminate negative legacies being passed on to future generations.
Among these serious problems, including climate change issues such as global warming, is biodiversity loss 
that is occurring at critical speed due to destruction of ecosystems and extinction of various living species. 
Biodiversity provides us with food, medicine, and energy while reducing the risk of disasters. It is the very foun-
dation of our culture and art, supporting our life and daily activities.
As the Fujifilm Group’s business activities are closely related to biodiversity, it is our responsibility to avoid or 
minimize negative impacts on it, by addressing its preservation and sustainable usage. In doing so, it is es -
sential to take into consideration that we exist in a state of global interdependence and keep an international perspective when taking necessary actions. 
1. To avoid destruction of biodiversity
Biodiversity is the “web of life.” In business ac-tivities, the Fujifilm Group avoids or minimizes negative impacts on this web of life, and gives due consideration not to have anything to do with destruction of the web. 
2. To preserve biodiversity
In business activities, the Fujifilm Group strives to keep the natural environment healthy and diverse, considering environmental preservation that re-flects the natural and social conditions of each local community. 
3. To make best use of biodiversity
The Fujifilm Group adopts sustainable methods to use biological resources for business activities, based on a long-term point of view, in order to maintain biodiversity for future generations. 4. To act globally
The Fujifilm Group strives to recognize impacts on biodiversity to reduce environmental burdens in domestic and overseas value chain frameworks when performing business activities.
5. To meet social requirements
The Fujifilm Group complies with international laws and regulations regarding biodiversity, and values collaboration and harmony with public bodies, NPO/NGOs, and other companies. 
6. To share information
The Fujifilm Group proactively discloses informa-tion on activities regarding biodiversity. The Fujifilm  Group also makes efforts to raise employees’ awareness of biodiversity issues to improve the quality and effectiveness of the Group’s activities for such issues.
Adopted Date: June 1, 2009CSR Highlights 2008those historical materials, very few people were given ac-
cess, and only under very strict conditions.
The project was launched to give wider access to 
the scrolls, and Fujifilm’s color microfilm was chosen as the media on which to copy the materials because of the high definition and high quality of the color. The EzMaper browser was developed jointly by FUJIFILM Imagetec and Micro Service Center for the DVD-R editions, which have been successively published by Maruzen since 2000, starting with the sutras written in China’s Sui and Tang dy-nasties.VOICE
Copying precious Buddhist sutras  
from 1,200 years ago on to color microfilm
In 1999, the Fujifilm Group started a project to preserve 
the Shogozo  scrolls stored and kept by the Imperial 
Household Agency’s Office of the Shosoin Treasure House jointly with the Agency and Maruzen Co., Ltd. Specifically, we will copy all 4,960 scrolls onto color microfilm and publish a digital DVD-R (CD-R) edition of the scrolls. We had already photographed about 2,100 scrolls by the end of 2008, but it will take another 10 years to complete this long-term project because in order to minimize the dam-age to historical materials, we must choose the appropri-ate season and time for photographing them carefully.
Shogozo  scrolls are Buddhist sutras kept in the 
Shogozo sutra storehouse at Sonshoin, a small temple located within the premises of the Todaiji Temple. The scrolls (about 5,000) include sutras written a long time ago in China’s Sui and Tang dynasties as well as those cre-ated in Japan in the Nara and Nanboku-cho periods. The scrolls were bequeathed to the Imperial Family together with the storehouse in 1893, and at present are managed by the Imperial Household Agency’s Office of the Shosoin Treasure House. Many people have wanted to access these scrolls for research into Buddhism, history, and the Japanese language, but because of the great value of Social and Cultural Contributions through  
Unique Photo and Film Technologies
Microfilm has features that other recording media do not have, such as the ability to provide beautiful high-
definition images and excellent durability. The Fujifilm Group is making use of this unique characteristic of film to support the recording and preservation of valuable cultural assets and artworks.Social contribution activities: Archiving Shogozo  scrolls in the Office of the Shosoin Treasure Houseʫ ʫ Long-term project that will take ten years to complete
To minimize the damage to the historical materials, we photo-
graph them only on weekdays during two weeks in the spring and winter, between 9:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. It takes about 15 to 20 minutes to photograph a scroll and so only around 24 scrolls can be photographed in a day. However, we have already pho-tographed around 2,100 scrolls. I think that photographing all the 
Shogozo  scrolls and 
organizing the resulting data is very important work.
Photographing the sutras, which only 
experts from the Office of the Shosoin Treasure House are allowed to touch
The Shogozo  scrolls have been surveyed and repaired 
since the Meiji period and the scrolls to be photographed 
are chosen based on the past survey and repair records. Only experts from the Office of the Shosoin Treasure House are al-lowed to actually touch the scrolls, and they must carry them to the photographing desk and make the neces -
sary preparations. The Publication of digital DVD-R editions 
contributes to research into Buddhism and the Japanese language
There are no other examples of so many old Buddhist 
sutras preserved in such a good condition even in China and so it is quite important to photograph the 
Shogozo  
scrolls to guarantee that they are preserved. By publishing DVD-R editions, the project can also make a significant 
Corporate Profile
■ Location:   3-6-30 Nishi-gotanda, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0031, 
Japan
■ Established:   May 29, 1981
■ Capital:   100 million yen
■ Business outline:   Services related to images and information  for business use
■ Employees:   380 (as of April 2009)
■  Service field: Business imaging fields such as high quality laboratory works, displaying, archiving, digitizing, ID/IC cards, image pictures for mobile phones
Website:   http://fjit.fujifilm.co.jp/  (in Japanese only)FUJIFILM Imagetec Co., Ltd.
Miyuki Oyama, FUJIFILM Imagetec,  
Shinya Sasai and Tetsuhiko Mizoguchi,  
Academic & Education Business Division of Maruzen  
(from left)desk incorporates a scale to check the size of each scroll. 
The scrolls are photographed on FUJIFILM microfilm 
Type R using a mini copy camera S2. First the scroll is 
photographed rolled up, then its front and back covers are photographed, and finally the text. The originals of the microfilms are preserved and duplicates are made for various purposes, including scanning to make the digital DVD-R edition.
contribution to research into Buddhism and the Japanese language.
The Japanese language, which forms the basis of 
Japanese culture, has been greatly influenced by the culture of China, which was introduced to Japan through Buddhist sutras and other materials. The 
Shogozo  scrolls 
are representative materials that can help researchers understand the process of development of the Japanese language. It is expected that providing researchers with an opportunity to analyze the materials using high-definition color images will result in new findings. For example, new findings could emerge about the development of hiragana, katakana and Japanese grammar through examining the additions made in white to the texts of the sutras and what has been erased.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 32 33 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Expert from the Shosoin  
placing a scroll on the photographing deskAdditions (circled parts) made in white to the texts of the Shogozo  scrollsKazuki Sugimoto
Director of the Office of the Shosoin 
Treasure House, Imperial Household Agency
ʫ ʫ  Cooperating with the archiving project of the 
National Archives of Japan
The National Archives of Japan is playing a very important role in 
preserving precious public documents and materials, which are the common assets of the Japanese people, for future generations. We are in charge of preserving national historical materials and allow-ing the public access to these materials.
At present, we are continuing to digitize historical materials 
onto highly durable film to make them available on our website in the Digital Gallery. (http://jpimg.digital.archives.go.jp/kouseisai/index_e.html)
To do this, we need to use advanced photographic technol-
ogy for materials that are not kept in good condition and we also have to check the condition of the material to be photographed onto film carefully, using our extensive experience in archiving an-cient documents.
This project can continue with its task due to the relation-
ship of trust that exists between us and FUJIFILM Imagetec, thus fulfilling our essential role of giving the Japanese people access to historical materials, while minimizing the impact on the valuable originals.TOPIC
Members of the National 
Archives of Japan and FUJIFILM ImagetecThe original signature on the Constitution of Japan (right) and the preamble to the Constitution of Japan (left)
Taeko Ooga, Itaru Aritomo,  and Junko Yamazoe
National Archives of Japan
CSR Highlights 2008Actively contributing to society since 1998, 
after celebrating the 50th anniversary
The Fujifilm Labor Union has been conducting its volun-
teer planting activity in China annually since 1998.
The labor union has been actively contributing to so-
ciety from the viewpoint of “what we can do,” rather than “what we can get.” After celebrating its 50th anniversary in 1997, the union expanded its social contribution to in-clude environmental conservation. Specifically, in order to make the Earth greener so that people can live here with a bigger smile, it started its “Green Smile” activities, which include “Green Aid” cleanup, support for forestation, and the greening of China’s deserts.
From 1998 to 2001, the union send four missions to 
China, one every year. Each mission was composed of around 15 employees, who participated in forestation ac-tivities in the Kubuqi Desert, led by the Japan Association 
Major activities and awards in fiscal 2008
Research and education:  Received the Prime Minister’s Commenda -
tion at the Barrier-Free, Universal Design Contributors Awards 2008. 
(For Fuji Xerox’s production of large-font textbooks for children with reduced eyesight) 
(Dec 3, 2008)
Culture, the arts and sports: Seven people who were about to enter Fuji Xerox in April participated in the Fuji Xerox Super Cup 2009 (the J League’s opening game for the new season) as volunteers. 
(Feb 28, 2009)
Health: Received a prize at the Nikkei BP Technology Awards 2009 (for FUJIFILM’s double-balloon endoscopy for easier diagnosis and treat -
ment of small intestinal diseases) 
(Apr 6, 2009)
Environmental conservation: A total of 55 employees and their fami-lies from FUJIFILM’s Fujinomiya Factory joined in a project to clean up Mt. Fuji with the NPO Fuji Club. 
(Nov 1, 2008)for Greening Deserts. Subsequently, the union has been 
continuously dispatching missions for forestation activi-ties in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region’s Horchin Desert through an NPO named “Green Network.” From the ninth mission sent in 2006, employees of local Fujifilm Group companies also began participating in the mission, and the 136 volunteer employees sent to the 11th one in 2008, including 11 members of the labor union, partici-pated in tree-planting missions. 
Planting 800 trees and making a 
300-square-meter straw grid in 2008
The 11th mission to 
China was sent for the period from April 29 to May 6, 2008. The mis-sion was composed of six employees from Japan and 13 em-ployees from six local Fujifilm Group companies located in Shanghai, Suzhou, and Hebei, including FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
The Horchin Desert is designated as one of the most 
rapidly desertifying areas by the Chinese government. The mission planted 800 pine trees in the desert supported by local farmers and students and made a straw grid of about 300 square meters to prevent the inflow of sand. They also trimmed the poplars planted by past missions. The members toiled together in expanding the continuous greening of the desert.More Than Ten Years of Volunteer Tree Planting 
by the Fujifilm Labor Union in China
The Fujifilm Group’s social contribution activities involve not only management, but also its labor union.  
As a representative example of a unique social contribution, the labor union has been carrying out  volunteer tree planting in China and sent its 11th mission to the country in 2008.ʫ ʫ Recognizing that contributing to society is not difficult
I participated in the 11th mission as a leader and it is now clear 
to me that social contribution is not difficult, but something that anyone can do. I have also learned the importance of enjoying doing what I can for others. After participating in the mission, I have been committed to saving energy, for example by starting to drive more slowly. I have decided to do what I can, instead of just thinking about it.
ʫ ʫ  The significance of the activity is obvious once you have 
seen the desert 
I used to think that Inner Mongolia was covered by sweeping 
fields of green grass, but what I actually saw there was shocking desertification, which brought home to me the significance of the planting project. I am sure others also recognized the impor-tance. We worked hard, and planted as many as 300 pine trees in one day. We planted more on the next day and I hope that the seedlings we planted will grow into the most beautiful green trees in the planted area. VOICE
VOICE
 http://www.fujixerox.com/eng/
company/news/2008/1203_kakudai.htmlURLSocial contribution: volunteer planting in China
Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy
The Fujifilm Group will work together with local communities as a good 
corporate citizen and contribute to society by responding sincerely to the demands and expectations of those communities. The Group has established the following action plan for implementing this policy.
1. Main activities
The Fujifilm Group will primarily focus on the fields of: research and educa-tion; culture, the arts and sports; health; and environmental conservation.
2. Importance of these activities
(1) Undertake these activities through cooperation and collaborationIn implementing these activities, the Fujifilm Group places importance on communication and partnerships with NPO / NGOs, local communities and others.
(2) Active support for volunteer activitiesThe Fujifilm Group values living in harmony with local communities and contributing to society through the voluntary participation of employees and fully supports these activities.In addition to contributions from individual partici-
pants, the labor union also shares the cost of sending the 
mission by using its Green Smile Fund established in 1998 (comprising fund from the general account of the union and donations from employees). Employees participate in the mission by taking volunteer leave, etc.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 34 35 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Hirokazu Misawa
Secretary of the Kaisei Branch
Fujifilm Labor Union
Yan Bin
Section Chief, Operation Department
FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.
Participants in the 11th green mission to ChinaHorchin Desert
Kubuqi DesertTongliao
Shenyang
BeijingEngebei
▶Regions involved in greening activities
Summary of planting activities over 10 years
Locations:• First to fourth missions: Engebei (Kubuqi Desert)• Fifth to present: Shenyang (Inner Mongol Autonomous Region’s Horchin Desert)From the 11th mission, we launched a “planting per unit area” project to create Fujifilm’s own Labor Union Forest.
Message
The Fujifilm Labor Union began sending missions to 
China for the greening of deserts 11 years ago. I myself participated in the 10th mission sent in 2007. From my experience, I believe it is meaningful for employees to (1) participate in a mission to see the effects of desertifica-tion for themselves and to realize that global environ-mental problems are urgent; (2) to work as a team with other participants; and (3) to have exchanges with local farmers.  Employees of Group companies in China also began participating in the missions three years ago, and employees from Japan can now hold exchanges and collaborate with their colleagues in China through these activities, beyond differences in nationality and language. 
In 2009, the labor union will dispatch its 12th mis-
sion to China and this will carry on into the future. However, we think it important to encourage social contribution activities in Japan, too. In 2008, we began looking at participation in Chiba Prefecture’s local for -
est conservation project and in the forestation program in Hinohara Village located in the western part of Tokyo conducted by the NPO Fujinomori, in addition to the Mt. Fuji cleanup project in which we are already participat-ing. We will hold more specific activities also in Japan, so that more employees and their families can partici-pate in environmental conserva-tion and change their behavior based on the experience gained through participation.
Fostering social contributions in Japan to enable more employees to participateMessage
Sanae Takahashi
Deputy Chairman of  
the Central Executive CommitteeFujifilm Labor Union
Making a straw gridCSR Highlights 2008CSR activities conducted at more than  
100 bases located in 32 states
The Fujifilm Group launched its business in the United 
States in 1965 with only six employees, at an office in the Empire State Building in New York. For more than 40 years since then, the Group has successfully developed its business and has around 6,000 employees now. At present, the Group has 17 affiliates in the country, which are operating in a total of 32 states, and the number of bases totals more than 100, including R&D, production, sales, and service support bases. As in Japan, the Group is conducting a range of businesses in the United States, including the manufacture of inkjet printer heads, UV inks, and semiconductor-related materials; proposals for soft-ware solutions for printing and medical diagnostic imaging systems; and the provision of technological and support services. At present, annual sales in the United States account for about 15% of the total sales of the Fujifilm Group. The U.S. mar -
ket has thus become an important market for the Group.
In running its busi-
nesses in the coun-try, the Fujifilm Group naturally thinks it  important to fulfill its corporate responsibility as in Japan, and accordingly, all local Group companies are engaged in CSR activities. In particular, for environmental conservation and occupa-tional health and safety activities, the companies are pro-actively implementing measures under the governance of FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation. Customers are provided with information on the Fujifilm Group’s CSR ac-tivities in a special brochure published and distributed for the purpose.Fulfilling CSR in the U.S. Market Too and Contributing 
to Improving the Quality of Life of Local Residents
The Fujifilm Group started its business in the United States more than 40 years ago with only six employees. Since 
then the Group has extensively developed its business and has about 6,000 employees in the country now. In the following pages, we will introduce the CSR activities conducted by Group employees in the United States.CSR activities in the United StatesEnhanced governance of affiliates  
by FUJIFILM Holdings America
The Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Department of 
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation supervises all environmental conservation and occupational health and safety activities at Fujifilm Group companies in the United States.
In April 2007, this local holding company began shar-
ing information proactively with employees in charge of environment and safety at each of the affiliates, in order to improve their EHS activity level, to make the environmen-tal goals of all the affiliates consistent with the philosophy of the Fujifilm Group Green Policy, and to improve the cost efficiency of their EHS activities, while collecting important information for the Group. The EHS Department provides the affiliates with the following services. As a result, they have improved their environmental and occupational safe-ty and health performance while also substantially reduc-ing related management costs.
Circulatory production of QuickSnap  
by FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A, Inc. is engaged in circula-
tory production of QuickSnap, as shown in the following figure. QuickSnap single-use cameras sold across the world are collected after use in three bases in Japan, Eu-rope, and the United States, and then recycled and reused Celia A. Spence
VP , Environment, Health & Safety Dept.
FUJIFILM Holdings America CorporationIn fiscal 2008, the EHS De-
partment took the initiative to achieve the common targets of local Group companies (see above table).
in manufacturing new QuickSnap cameras at the plant in 
the United States, where almost all of the total amount recovered is collected. The highly advanced factory is equipped with a circulatory production system that is de-veloped in Japan, and the Fujifilm Group manufactures all of its QuickSnap products for loyal users of photo films all over the world.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 36 37 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
Corporate Profile
■ Location:   200 Summit Lake Drive, Valhalla, NY 10595-1356, U.S.A.
■ Established:   September 1990
■ Capital:   U.S. $ 2,457.65 million (as of March 2009)
■ Employees:   150 (as of March 2009)
■ Business outline:   A holding company of manufacturing and sales 
companies in the U.S.
Website:   http://www.fujifilmusa.com/FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation▶Common targets and achievements
▶Evaluations and awards in the United States▶ Products and materials manufacturing in the Fujifilm Group  
in the United States
Inkjet printer head products Semiconductor products
Printer productsCommon Targets Achievements
1Reducing the release of hazardous 
waste at manufacturing sitesReduced the release by selling more waste as 
valuable resources based on a waste disposal plan.
2Reducing the emission of 
greenhouse gases (Taking fiscal 
2006 as the baseline year)Conducted effective energy conservation activities 
based on the equipment guidelines and an energy 
management program.
3Promptly collecting environmental 
and safety information about 
productsIntroduced a management system for product 
safety information.
Receiving Company Evaluation/Award Details Awarding Organization
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc. “Sustainability Award” and “2008 Supplier of the Year”Products and services
(quality of service and response to customers)Walmart
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. KLAS AwardsProducts and services
(The Velocity SpeedSuite® a Fujifilm DR (FDR))KLAS
FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc. “Supplier of the Year Award” Products and services (quality, deadline, and technology) Vision Business Products, Inc.
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc. Intel Corporation’s Preferred Quality Supplier 2009Products and services(Quality, deadline, and technology for semiconductor products)Intel
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants, Inc. Canon Green Procurement Standards Achieved Products and services (product management and safety) Canon
Brochure on CSR activities
Environmental conservation and occupational health and safetyFOCUS 1
Services provided by the EHS Department:
•  Provision of latest information on environment and occupational health 
and safety
•  A database on related laws and regulations
•  Provision of training programs through the Internet
•  Provision of information exchange opportunities through the Internet
•  Organization of an annual forum for information exchange
•  Provision of mutual audit opportunities
Corporate Profile
■ Location:   211 Pucketts Ferry Road, Greenwood, SC 29649, U.S.A.
■ Established:   July 1988
■ Capital:   U.S. $ 704.2 million (as of March 2009)
■ Employees:   848 (as of March 2009)
■ Business outline:   Production, R&D center
■  Major products: Color papers, production of QuickSnap, PS and CTP plates 
for offset printing, etc.
Website:   http://www.fujifilm-sc.comFUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.▶Circulatory production of QuickSnap
Photo
print
store(Recovery)
(Shipment)
Customer
Selling
storeCirculatory
production plant
InspectionDisassembly
PackagingQuality assuranceReuse
Recycling
Manufacture▶The Fujifilm Group’s bases in the United States
●＝Group production bases   
●＝Major sales basesCSR Highlights 2008Enhancing quality of life for esophageal cancer 
patients in Kenya 
FUJINON, Inc.
FUJINON, Inc. provides endoscopy solutions to minimize burdens 
imposed on patients and contribute to the improvement of the quality of their lives. FUJINON’s endoscopes are suitable not only for the diagnosis of stomach disorders but also for the diagnosis of disorders in narrow organs such as the esophagus. (In particu-lar, with transnasal endocsopy, which uses a slim endoscope, it is possible to observe the affected area from various directions.)
Recently, the annual death rate of esophageal cancer pa-
tients has exceeded 400,000 worldwide, with 80% of those deaths occurring in developing countries. Under these circum -
stances, FUJINON, Inc. donated endoscopic equipment to Tenwek Hospital in rural, western Kenya, including video proces-sors, monitors, colonoscopes, gastroscopes, printers, and con-sumable items. The donation was made in support of the efforts made by Dr. Russell White, Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery at Brown University School of Medicine and by the Chief of Surgery at the 300-bed mission hospital located in Bomet, Kenya.
Tenwek Hospital is the only hospital in western Kenya where 
esophageal cancer patients can receive the diagnosis and treat-ment and this hospital performs over 1,500 procedures annually. According to Dr. White, however, their medical equipment, includ-ing the endoscopy equipment, is becoming older but it is difficult to introduce new equipment while minimizing the financial burdens on patients in the present management situation. Then, FUJINON, Inc. donated endoscopic equipment. To Tenwek Hospital.In the United States, the Fujifilm Group is conducting 
social contribution activities to help solve health problems including cancer, and social problems such as domestic violence and poverty. The Group is conducting these activities also in other areas including Africa and Brazil as an extension of their activities in the United States.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 38 39 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Donating to the V Foundation Fund 
FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc.
The V Foundation is a charitable cancer research organization 
founded in 1993 by ESPN (a broadcasting station specializing in sports) and the late Jim Valvano, the legendary North Carolina State basketball coach and ESPN commentator. At the Foun-dation’s event called “Show Your Spirit,” FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A. and its company employees donated money and showed their support for cancer research by wearing their fa-vorite team uniforms.
Participating in Lowell General Hospital’s  
Team Walk for Cancer Care 
FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc. 
Team Walk for Cancer Care is a celebration of life, spirit, and 
hope. The uniqueness of Team Walk is that all the money raised through this program is used for the patients and their families liv-ing in Massachusetts, where FUJIFILM Recording Media U.S.A., Inc., is located. The incredible spirit of Team Walk brought pur -
pose to each step participants took and also hope to patients. Employees of the company also participated in the walk and raised donations both as a company and as individuals.Selling digital camera sets to raise breast 
cancer awareness
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. 
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM U.S.A. Inc.’s Electronic Imaging Division teamed up with 
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. to sell a limited number of digital camera sets with the aim of raising breast cancer aware-ness as part of the Mammograms for a Million Moms campaign promoted by FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A. One set is com-posed of a Fujifilm FinePix Pink Z20 digital camera, a camera case, an xD memory card, a keychain, and a brochure giving im-portant information about mammograms. Providing digital cameras to organizations 
selected by company employees
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation
In 2008, over 60 company em-
ployees from seven Fujifilm Group companies in the United States se-lected their favorite community or-ganizations, including food banks, hospitals, and social service agen-cies. The employees presented a Fujifilm consumer digital camera to each of the selected organizations to help them further their mission and enhance the quality of life in their communities. 
Contributing to 
the Kibera Slum Photo Project in Nairobi, Kenya
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc. donated Fujifilm QuickSnap cameras to the 
largest slum in Africa, with a population of over one million people, half of whom are children. In the slum, volunteers working at wel-fare facilities are trying to rescue orphans and at-risk children (a total of 300 children aged from three to 15), by feeding them and teaching them. As part of these activities, a photo workshop was held for 30 of the older children by a professional photographer, who taught them how to take photos us-ing QuickSnap. This event pleased the children a lot.
Giving support to the victims of domestic 
violence
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation received 2009 Corporate 
Vision Award from Sanctuary for Families, the largest nonprofit organization in New York State dedicated exclusively to serving domestic violence victims and their children. Over the course of many months, Ms. Stoyer photographed the struggles of several Sanctuary clients as they took the “long journey” away from do -
mestic violence and toward a safe and independent life. The pho-tographer also taught these women how to take pictures as a way to rediscover, through photography, the self-esteem, strength, and joy that had been taken away from them through years of abuse.
FUJIFILM Holdings America Corporation, highly valuing the 
purpose of this project, offered financial assistance to it, as well as professional photo films, ink jet photo pa-per, and FinePix S8100 digital cameras.
Offering free-of-charge printing service to  
KVC Behavioral Health Care, Inc.
FUJIFILM Sericol U.S.A., Inc.
KVC Behavioral Heath Care, Inc. (KVC) is a private, not-for-profit 
organization providing medical and behavioral healthcare, social services, and education to children and families. FUJIFILM Sericol U.S.A., Inc. meets a portion of KVC’s printing needs with the digital printing equip-ment in its Inkjet Solution Center by printing for KVC during customer demonstrations of the equipment.
Participating in Dartmouth Medical School’s  
The Prouty Race
FUJIFILM Dimatix, Inc.
Company employees of FUJIFILM Dimatix, Inc. participated in 
The Prouty Race to help raise money for cancer research. In 2008, more than 4,000 people participated in the bicycle and walk race and about two million dollars were raised. The Prouty Race be-gan in 1982 when four nurses rode 100 miles through the White Mountains of New Hampshire to honor Audrey Prouty, one of their patients who bravely fought against cancer. Since then, the event has raised more than eight million dollars for cancer research, education, and clini-cal trails.
Introducing examples of social contribution activitiesFOCUS 2
Donating to the “Plant a Billion Trees” Project
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc.
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc. in Allendale, New Jersey 
promoted the recycling of office paper, and based on the weight of paper recycled, donated money to the Plant a Billion Trees Proj-ect run by The Nature Conservancy. The Nature Conservancy is a leading environmental conservation organization working around the world to protect ecologically important land and waters for na-ture and people. A total of about 3,000 kilograms of office paper was collected for re -
cycling and 682 trees planted in the Atlantic Forest in Brazil.
CSR Highlights 2008FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 40 41 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009
About the illustrations on the section title 
pages of the report:
With the cooperation of the National Archives of 
Japan, we published illustrations of medicinal plants included in 
Shobutsu Ruisan  and Shobutsu Ruisan 
Zuyoku  on the section title pages of this report.
We are now enjoying rich lives thanks to the existence of a range of living creatures, including medicinal plants from older Japan as introduced by the illustrations. This section contains basic information on the Fujifilm Group’s 
CSR activities and quantitative information on its personnel and labor affairs and environmental performance.
Self-Evaluation of the Fujifilm Group CSR Activities …… 42
Communication with Stakeholders/ 
Labor Environment and Social Benefit Accounting ……… 44
Personnel and Labor (Fujifilm) ………………………… 45
Personnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) ……………………… 46
Communication with Customers ……………………… 47
Fujifilm Group Green Policy …………………………… 48
Environmental Burdens of the Fujifilm Group …………… 50
Environmental Aspects ………………………………… 52
Environmental Accounting …………………………… 55
Third-Party Review Target Sites ……………………… 56
Internal and External Communication ………………… 58
Domestic and International Appraisals ………………… 59Data and InformationWhat perspective is adopted to establish 
KPIs?
Long-term/short-term
OngoingUtilization of measurement, analysis, and results in managementSelf-Evaluation of the Fujifilm Group CSR Activities (Fiscal 2008)
1. Storonger Governance
  Pages 2-3, 24, 44, 54, 56-68,  
and 60-61
 http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/steps/
governance/index.htmlURL(1)  Dissemination of the Fujifilm 
Group’s Approach to CSR throughout the group inside and outside Japan•  Formulated the Approach to CSR in July 20, 2007.
•  Constantly introduced the principles over the intranet, sustainability reports, official website, and materials for external lectures and in-house education.
○
(2)  Enhancing PDCA management for compliance and risk management by integrating management systems (expansion of the IMS) FUJIFILM:•  Expanded the IMS to include four companies in 2007 and another four in 2008 (A total of 16 companies have obtained MS certification).
Fuji Xerox:•  Integration of QEO management systems completed for four sites in 2007.
○
(3)  Enhancing internal control systems•  Conducted onsite surveys on CSR activities at six major Group companies in China (May 10 to 18, 2008).
△
(4)  Improved stakeholder dialogue and application of 3rd-party evaluation to group companies•  Formulated a three-year stakeholder dialogue promotion plan  (Sept 18, 2008).
•  Dialogue meetings: Held four times in 2007 and six times in 2008.
○
•  Third-party evaluation of Group companies: five cases in fiscal 2007 and 
four in fiscal 2008○
2.  Compliance with Environmental 
Laws and Regulations
 Pages 29 and 52-53
http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/steps/
regulation/index.htmlURL(1)  Compliance with REACH 
Regulation•  Completed preliminary registration of chemical materials (for existing chemical substances)
•  Conducted surveys targeting materials manufacturers and parts suppliers.
•  Disclosed information at affiliates in Europe.○
(2)  Enhancement of an integrated system for chemical substance management•  Now integrating the current MSDS database with the chemical substance management system.
△
3.  Stronger Measures to Prevent 
Global Warming
 Pages 26-28
  http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/qol/globalwarming/
index.htmlURL(1)  Fostering CO 2 emission reduction 
activities•  Reduction of energy use and CO 2 emissions per unit of production
•  Fiscal 2007: Reduced as planned
•  Fiscal 2008: Increased due to reduced production (Failing to 
achieve the target)△
•  Conducted awareness activities.
•  Implemented a range of campaigns including “ICE Project” and “Light-down.” ○
4.  Improved Information Disclosure
Pages 8-19 and 42-59
 http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/steps/
disclosure/index.htmlURL(1)  Improvement of Sustainability 
Report and active PR on CSR activities•  Won awards for the sustainability report.
•  2007: Prize for excellence from Toyo Keizai, Inc.
•  2008: Three prizes  (one each from the Ministry of Environment and 
NSC , Toyo Keizai, and the Industrial Advertising Association Japan)
•  Disseminated CSR information within the company.
•  Posted CSR information on the intranet: 29 times (in 2007 and 2008).
•  Used  the sustainability report as a sales promotion tool.○
(2)  Effective internal use and disclosure of qualitative and quantitative CSR information in business results (technologies, products, and services)•  Tabulated data and information and improved their comparability by 
inserting a “Data and Information” section to the sustainability report  (2007 and 2008).
○
(3)  Promotion of internal systems for rapidly collecting information on product liability, accidents and exporting issues•  Revised the rules on PL in 2007, built a prompt reporting system by digitizing PL information, and established a new PL information communication system for nights and holidays.
•  Expanded the scope of the PL database and raised awareness through PL education in 2008.
○
5. Responses to New Trends
Pages 22-25, 29-39, 44-46
 http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/steps/trend/index.htmlURL(1)  Strengthened efforts as a global 
corporation regarding diversity and work safetyFUJIFILM:•  Implemented measures to diversify the role of female employees and their working styles (F-POWER training, increase in the ratio of female managers, and a childcare support system).
•  Introduced measures for mental health and reviewed the entire occupational health and safety system (for early detection of mental problems, better responses, and assistance in a smooth return to work).
Fuji Xerox:•  Enhanced measures so that a range of human resources can work and display their abilities with high motivation (Revision of the childcare system in April 2008 and awareness raising among managers).
•  Enhanced education on occupational accidents, health and safety, and health promotion.
○
(2)  Creation and implementation of a framework for CSR procurement (collaboration with the materials department)•  Identified the procurement situation of the Group, including affiliates.
•  Launched a committee comprising CSR-oriented procurement facilitators.
○
(3)  Formulating basic policies on biodiversity conservation and social contribution activities•  Established the Fujifilm Group Social Contribution Policy on April 2, 2008.
•  Established the Fujifilm Group Guidelines for biodiversity on June 1, 2009.
○
Medium-term CSR planPriority Area Key IssueSelf 
EvaluationAchievement in Fiscal 2007 and 2008Self-evaluation ranking     ○: Results achieved.  △: Close to achieving results.  ×: Further effort needed.In fostering its CSR activities, the Fujifilm Group has been examining CSR-related tasks from both company and 
stakeholder perspectives, setting priorities, and implementing specific measures.Self Evaluation of the Medium-Term CSR Plan (for Fiscal 2007 to 2008)
The following table shows our self evaluation of the progress made over the past two years in the implementation of the 
medium-term CSR plan (for fiscal 2007 to 2008).
Preparing for the formulation of the next 
medium-term CSR plan
In fiscal 2009, we will make preparations for the formula-
tion of the next medium-term CSR plan (for fiscal 2010 to 2012) by reviewing the materiality of each of our CSR activities based on the self-evaluation results for the past two years and stakeholders’ needs, thereby further pro-moting and improving our CSR activities as a whole.
CSR promotion system
The Fujifilm Group is promoting its CSR activities led by the CSR Committee of FUJIFILM Holdings, as shown in the figure on the right. Under this CSR promotion system, each Group company is trying to enhance its CSR activi-ties by formulating and implementing a plan to fulfill its social responsibilities through business operations. In ad-dition, they are ensuring compliance, promoting risk man-agement, fostering communication with stakeholders, and collaborating with the secretariat of the CSR Committee of FUJIFILM Holdings regarding CSR measures.
Identifying materiality
The Fujifilm Group decides the materiality of its priority 
CSR issues based on the following two criteria: (1) influ-ence on the Fujifilm Group, and (2) external evaluation of the Group’s measures, and incorporates the decisions into its medium-term CSR plan. The figure on the right shows the materiality of the priority issues, including climate change, CSR-oriented procurement, and biodiversity.High
External evaluation
Inﬂuence on the Fujiﬁlm Group HighLow
LowSocial expectations 
and request
Voluntary and industrial criteria
ComplianceSocial and cultural 
contributionClimate change
Objective evaluation of CSR activitiesCSR-oriented procurementQuality and safetyMateriality: Middle
Materiality: LowMateriality: High
Materiality: HighInformation disclosure and dialogue
Enhancement of internal control
Occupational safety and health Human rights and employmentBiodiversity
Human resources development▶The Fujifilm Group’s CSR promotion system
▶Materiality of priority CSR issuesSteps for promoting CSR activities
We continue to follow the steps set out below. We are examining CSR tasks from both company and stakeholder perspec-
tives, setting priority issues, and implementing specific measures to improve our CSR activities.
Company perspective
Understanding stakeholders’ needsStep1Identifying important issuesStep2 Establishing KPIs 
(KPI: Key Performance Indicator)Step3Improvements to CSR activitiesStep4What perspective is adopted to 
understand the needs?
Risk hedging
Social contributionCreation of opportunities
Stakeholder perspective
Are the interests of stakeholders 
understood?What issues are identified?
Business
CSRDifficulty of solution
Are stakeholders’ views incorporated?Are reports on performance being made 
to stakeholders?What perspective is adopted to make 
improvements?
Increasing corporate value
Social contribution through our main businessSustainability of societyFUJIFILM 
CorporationFuji Xerox 
Co., Ltd.Toyama 
Chemical  
Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM 
Business 
Expert 
CorporationFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Secretariat of the 
CSR Committee
CSR Group, General 
Affairs Division, FUJIFILM Holdings
•  Applies CSR governance 
to all Group companies (implementation of policies and strategies decided by the CSR Committee) 
•  Implements the measures decided for priority tasks by the CSR Committee and manage the progress
•  Supports CSR activities conducted by the operating companies  (Collects and analyzes information)
•  Discloses information to society and communicates with stakeholders
•  Audit of all Fujifilm Group’s CSR activitiesCSR Committee
Regarding CSR issues of the Group:
•  Deliberates and decides basic policies
•  Deliberates and decides priority tasks and 
measures for them
Chairman: President of FUJIFILM Holdings
CSR departments of  
the operating companies
To fulfill CSR:
•  Formulates and implements CSR action plans
•  Ensure compliance and implement risk management
•  Foster communication with stakeholders
•   Report CSR activities to FUJIFILM Holding’s CSR 
Committee
Is the company maintaining 
accountability by sustaining ongoing dialogue with stakeholders?
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 42 43 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Data and InformationFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 44 45 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009▶Breakdown of labor environment and  
social benefit accounting
▶Volunteer activities in on-the-job hours▶Composition of the Fujifilm workforce
▶Recruitment▶Status of regular employees▶Composition of labor union membership
▶Employment
▶Number of employees taking leaves of absence*Labor environment and social benefit  
accountingCommunication with stakeholdersCommunication with Stakeholders/  
Labor Environment and Social Benefit AccountingPersonnnel and Labor (Fujifilm)
The expenses required for activities to improve the labor environment and 
the amount spent for social contributions are calculated and classified by stakeholder group. For employees, the Group emphasized providing train-ing and developing a workplace in which they can work comfortably by focusing on safety (barrier-free and accessible), benefits packages (such as upgrading cafeteria facilities), and human resources development. Expenses related to contributions to culture and the arts include those incurred for management of FUJIFILM SQUARE, the company’s center for photography culture and for organizing photo contests. Cultural and social contributions in the international society included assistance to victims of the 2008 Sichuan Earthquake in China, donation of medical X-ray film to the Chinese Red Cross and support of the Tokyo International Film Festival (held in October 2008).  Employees
Employees play a central role in the promotion of Fujifilm’s CSR activities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue:  Consulting centers of the Personnel Department and 
personnel interviews; Compliance and Sexual Harassment Helpline; Labor union and regular 
company meetings; Stakeholder Dialogue; Awareness surveys related to making work more satisfying
Suppliers
Our suppliers are important partners who assist us in continuing to offer 
products that reflect proper regard for safety and the natural environment.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Procurement Division (For responding to inquiries);  
FUJIFILM Business Expert (For responding to inquiries); Ecology and Quality Management Division (For responding to inquiries); Information meetings for suppliers (green procure-ment, management of chemical content); Periodic discussion meetings with our suppliers; Operation of a materials procurement website
Community (Regional societies)
We believe that symbiosis with the community and the preservation of the 
natural environment are key elements of our CSR as a corporation, espe-cially at those places of business for production operation. We, therefore, promote communication with the community.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Consulting centers at each of our factories and offices (For 
responding to inquiries); Meeting related to environmental policy; Factory visits; Volunteer activities in the local community; Lectures and information meetings for community mem-bers; Periodic discussions with local governments (municipal governments and mayors, leaders of local government organizations, and others)
Shareholders/Investors
We are constantly aware of the need to promote a proper understanding 
of the Company’s value, and work to provide timely disclosure of investor relations (IR) information in Japan and overseas.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: IR Office (For responding to inquiries); Information meet-
ings for investors and visits with investors; Shareholder meetings; IR information section on the company website
Transaction partners
As we propose new creations worthy of merit, our transaction partners are 
vital, and we work with them and support them in the development of new products.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Sales companies and marketing/sales divisions (For re-
sponding to inquiries); Periodic discussions with our transaction partners; Seeking advice in the creation of new products and materials and participating in joint development activities; Participation in exhibitions, events, and academic meetings
NGOs, NPOs
We provide continuing support for NGOs and NPOs that engage in educa-
tional and enlightenment activities related to the natural environment.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Corporate General Administration Division (For respond-
ing to inquiries); CSR Division (For responding to inquiries); Secretariat of the Public Trust Fujifilm Green Fund; Stakeholder Dialogue
Customers
Reflecting the opinions and requests of customers in our products, ser -
vices, and corporate activities is one of the most important issues for a 
manufacturing company.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Customers Communication Center (For responding to 
inquiries); FUJIFILM SQUARE (Showroom); Technical Support Centers; Service Centers; Us-ability evaluations, advice on production development, preparation of user reports, and other activities; CS survey, VOC, Photo contests, photo exhibitions, photography classes; Events, exhibitions and seminars
Future generations
We believe that one of our most vital social responsibilities is to conduct 
educational activities for future generations who will be responsible for the future. We, therefore, are placing special emphasis on educational support activities.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Providing instructors to conduct school courses and par-
ticipating in events held in schools; Sponsoring factory visits as part of extracurricular and 
other activities; Working with NGOs in environmental education activities
Industrial associations, government organizations and business 
partners
We are actively communicating and cooperating with industry groups to 
respond to laws and ordinances such as the RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation.
Methods for sustaining dialogue: Participation in the creation of industry guidelines;  
Statement of public comments through industrial associations; Pink Ribbon Campaign, joint research with hospitals and universities, and establishment of sponsored lecturesPeriod covered
Fiscal year 2008 (April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2009)
Range of information sources
The 69 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group*  (FUJIFILM Holdings, 
Fujifilm and 19 affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 46 affiliates, and Toyama 
Chemical)
*Eight company was newly added in fiscal 2008.
Basic items
Objectives of labor environment and social benefit accountingThese accounts are prepared to allow the Fujifilm Group to keep up with its activities for improving the working environment of its employees and the amounts spent for social contributions by preparing data on these ac-tivities from an economic perspective.
Accounting method
The expenditures (including investments) for the year have been added up to arrive at the figures shown. These figures do not include depreciation. Figures for personnel training and social contributions may overlap with figures in the Environmental Account as well.
* Calculated based on the hours spent on volunteer activities, such as area clean-up, in on-the-job 
hours, the salary equivalent to that of those hours, and cost of the activities.Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Hours spent on volunteer activities 3,814 hours 3,555 hours
Volunteer cost* 12 22Regular 
employees8,337<Breakdown>
   General employees: 6,680   (Male: 5,332, Female: 1,348)   Managerial personnel: 1,657   (Male: 1,639, Female: 18)
Non-regular 
employees723<Breakdown>   Temporary employees: 521, Part-timers: 23   Employees re-employed after retirement: 86   Other (Contract employees, etc.): 93
New graduate recruitment 
(Fiscal 2009)*200<Technical positions>
   Male 129, Female 15<Administrative positions>   Male 37, Female 9
Mid-career recruitment* 110 Male: 81, Female: 29
(¥ million)
(¥ million)As of March 31, 2009
As of March 31, 2009As of March 31, 2009
Average ageAverage length 
of employment 
(Years)Average number 
of dependentsUtilization of 
paid leave*Turnover 
rate*
42.2Male: 18.6
Female: 20.21.4 74% 3.8%Union membersProportion of  
union membershipAverage age of  
union members
6,538 78%* 40.7
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Employment of persons 
with disabilities1.77% 1.89% 1.87%
Re-employment* 41 38 40
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Leave of absence for nursing care 1 0 6
Leave of absence for childcare 32 44 32
Leave of absence for volunteer work 0 0 0*  As the number of new graduated recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the beginning of 
April, the number in the chart above represents new graduate recruitment at the beginning of April 2009.
*  Number of mid-career recruitments represents those from April 2008 to March 2009.
*Re-employment means employees who were re-employed after their retirement.
* The number of employees who began a leave of absence during the relevant fiscal year.*  Data on utilization of paid leave is calculated based on data for the period between October 1, 
2007 and September 30, 2008.
*  Turnover rate:  Numerator: Attrition + Retirement + Transfer + New Start for Senior Employees 
program (excluding voluntary retirement due to structural reform)
 Denominator: Annual average number of employees at Fujifilm (non-consolidated)* Ratio to the number of regular employees (8,337)
▶Systems for work-life balance
•  All of these systems provide for more generous leave than is required by 
law.
•  Stock Leave is a system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave time up to 60 days. Accumulated leave days may be used for the treatment of personal health problems, rehabilitation, childcare, nursing care and volunteer activities.Stakeholder GoalCost totals
Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
EmployeesHealth and safety 1,462 1,865
Personnel training 2,237 2,297
Protect diversity 180 148
Develop a workplace in which 
employees can work comfortably2,012 2,304
CustomersEnsure appropriate customer response and safety652 570
Future generationsEducation for future generations 10 21
Communities (
local society and 
government) Harmony with the local community 157 158
Promote culture and the arts in society (in Japan)1,276 1,386
International communityConsideration for the international community and international cultures51 63
NGOs and NPOs Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs 10 10
Suppliers Consideration for products 33 50
Total 8,080 8,872
▶Labor accident ratio and labor accident severity
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Labor Accident Ratio*10.22 0.09 0.00
Labor Accident Severity*20.03 0.02 0.00
*1   Labor Accident Ratio  =
*2   Labor Accident Severity  =Number of labor accident victims
Gross number of hours worked× 1,000× 1,000,000Gross number of hours worked
Number of workdays lost▶Revisions to systems conducted according to agreements 
between the labor union and the company As of March 31, 2009
Fiscal year Item
Fiscal 2006•  Revisions to re-employment systems
•  Clarification of transfer and external assignment regulations
•  Revisions to travel expense regulations
Fiscal 2007•  Revisions to the support system for encouraging lifestyles 
conductive to both work and family life
•  Revisions to policy on providing condolence money
Fiscal 2008•  Revisions to the support system for encouraging lifestyles conductive to both work and family life
▶Respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination
The Fujifilm Group respects basic human rights and does not improperly 
violate the human rights of its employees. We do not discriminate on the basis of gender, age, nationality, ethnic origin, beliefs, religion, social posi-tion, physical condition, or other characteristics and respect the privacy of our employees. To prevent sexual harassment, we have continuously implemented activities to raise awareness and disseminate information within the company, including the revision and distribution of sexual ha-rassment prevention guidelines based on the revised Equal Employment Opportunity Law, that took effect in 2007, to all employees of Fujifilm and its affiliates. We also defined the prohibition of power harassment in our company regulations.
In addition, we have provided a telephone consultation service (the 
compliance and sexual harassment helpline) where arrangements have been made for external specialized counselors to receive requests for consultation from employees. While respecting the privacy of individuals receiving consultation, we work toward the resolution of these issues. Other related activities include periodic training sessions for personnel in managerial positions in Fujifilm and its affiliates on the subjects of respect for human rights and the elimination of discrimination.
Giving 
birth, 
Childcare1. Systems catering for pre- and post-birth requirements
2. Leave of absence for childcare3. Use of stock leave for childcare4. Systems for employment while raising children5. Leave of absence for taking care of sick children6. Shortened working hours7. Use of stock leave for fertility treatment8. Leave of absence for fertility treatment9. Exemption from extended working hours and working on holidays
Nursing 
care1. Leave of absence for caring for a family member2. Use of stock leave for caring for a family member3. Systems for employment while caring for a family member
Other1.  Leave of absence for volunteer work/Use of stock leave for  volunteer work
2. Use of stock leave for self-development3. Use of long-service holidays4. Flextime working hours5. Discretionary labor system6. Leaving offices on time (one day a week)
Data and InformationFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 46 47 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Giving 
birth, 
Childcare1. Leave of absence for childcare
2.  Reemployment system for employees who left company for childcare
3.  Accumulated unused paid leave for family health care  
(Accumulated paid leave*)
4.  Shortened working hours for childcare (until third grade of elementary school)
5.  Exemption from overtime work (in principle) (until third grade of elementary school)
6. Limited late-night work (until sixth grade of elementary school)7. Special leave (5 days for subsequent babies)
Nursing 
care1. Leave of absence for caring for a family member2. Shortened working hours for caring for a family member3. One-day nursing care leave4. Accumulated unused paid leave for caring for a family member
Other1. Flextime working hours2. Refresh holidays3. Social Service system4. Accumulated unused paid leave for volunteer activities5. Leave of absence for education6. Senior theme leave7. Flexible work schedules8. Double job programUnder the ALL-FX Code of Conduct instituted in 2007, rules of compliance 
have been established on respect for human rights, a ban on discrimina-tion, prohibition of acts of harassment, protection of privacy and other provisions based on “respect for basic human rights,” covering FujiFilm’s affiliates and sales companies. In 2008, training programs for new em-ployees, newly appointed managers, etc., presentation and communication of the significance and other information on the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, solicitation of entries for the Hu-man Rights Awareness Slogan contest, and distribution of 
Ashita e  (Towards 
Tomorrow), the corporate newsletter on human rights, to the heads and general managers of various business units.
The company is also a member of the Industrial Federation for Human 
Rights, Tokyo, and has been involved in corporate chair-level exchanges of information and in awareness promotion activities. In 2004, Fuji Xerox has served as chair for the Federation with a membership of 122 business corporations, as well as in the posts of managing director and publicity committee chair.▶System for responding to customers (Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)
▶System for responding to customers (Fuji Xerox and its domestic affiliates)Personnnel and Labor (Fuji Xerox) Communication with Customers
ISO 10002 (International Standard for Complaints Handling Management Systems)
CustomersCustomers’ 
opinionsConsiderationReflection of 
customers’ opinionConsultation facility (only B to C)
Phone/e-mail
General Maintenance Delivery Billing CS surveysVarious market 
researchersVOCMail/e-mailInternal research division/
research filmsPerson in charge
(sales/CE/SE)Inquiries
ReportsFeedb ackRequestsCustomers Communication Center
Call Center for the Healthcare Laboratory
Technical Support Center
Service StationAbout 30  personnel
About 20  personnel
About 60  personnel
120  personnel7 service centers  
in Japan/about 
About 32,000  
inquiries ーAbout 573,000  
inquiriesDomestic marketing divisions/Domestic sales companiesProposals
RemarksTop management Improvements to 
products and services
Adoption of  
new products and 
new servicesDivision heads
Consideration by 
related divisions
Marketing and 
sales
Design
R&DThe Customers Communication Center organizes information 
such as comments and inquiries from customers into a database
Number of customer inquiries: 
About 380,000  inquiries a yearBack to  
“Customers’ Opinions”Letters, telephone calls, 
e-mails, company visits 
and in retail outletsInteractive Communication
Customer 
Information 
Center (general 
contact)Telephone 
Center 
(machine 
maintenance)Customer 
Service Center 
(consumables)Customer 
Administration 
Center (invoices, 
payment, etc.)1.  Comparison to 
competitors’ CS surveys
2.  User CS surveysMacroeconomic 
market trend surveys VOC (Voice of Customer)
Comprehensive system 
for collecting information 
from custo mers
ーAbout 4.29 
million  inquiriesAbout 3 million  
inquiriesAbout 33,000  
inquiries
Usability introduced with careful 
attention to observations and ideas coming from field personnel
Founded on FUJIFILM’s conviction that usability design means “use 
without hesitation” and “use with enjoyment” for actual users, the idea is being applied actively not only to its consumer products, represented by digital cameras, but also to BtoB products such as medical instruments and systems.
The digital x-ray mammography unit named 
AMULET  introduced in 
late 2008 is an example of the application of usability design. In develop-ment, Design Center personnel paid visits to hospitals, in cooperation with related business divisions, in order to assess issues that radiologists and patients find inconvenient or troublesome through hearings. As a result of Example
the findings, an armrest was 
developed to relieve patients from the pain of the examina-tion and to help them relax. In addition, a vertical screen was introduced to show the four images required for examination taken from top, bottom, left and right in a single screen, contributing to usability for both the patient and the instrument operator.
It has been evaluated highly by personnel in the medical fields. 
FUJIFILM plans to explore further possibilities for development, with at-tention to observations and ideas that come from actual users in medical diagnosis and treatment.
Katsumi Hirabayashi (left) and Yasuyo Nenoki (right)
Fujifilm Design Center
First-hand experience 
to examine comfort in actual useStudy equipment layout space with a miniature mockupThe shape of the arm-rest for mammography is being verified, pay-ing close attention to the opinions of women radiologists.
1  Observation 2  Hypothesis 3  Verification▶Composition of the Fuji Xerox workforce
▶Recruitment▶Status of regular employees▶Composition of labor union membership
▶Employment
▶Number of employees taking leaves of absence*Regular 
employees11,196<Breakdown>
   General employees: 8,338   (Male: 7,028, Female: 1,310)   Managerial personnel: 2,570   (Male: 2,517, Female: 53)Executive officers, contract employees,  secondment employees: 288
Non-regular 
employees896<Breakdown>   Temporary employees: 294, Part-timers: 234   Employees re-employed after retirement: 358   Other (Contract employees, etc.): 10
New graduate recruitment 
(Fiscal 2009)*236<Technical positions>
   Male 144, Female 23<Administrative positions>   Male 29, Female 40
Mid-career recruitment* 24 Male: 22, Female: 2As of March 31, 2009
As of March 31, 2009
As of March 31, 2009As of March 31, 2009
Average ageAverage length 
of employment 
(Years)Average number 
of dependentsUtilization of 
paid leaveTurnover 
rate*
44.2Male: 20.0
Female: 14.81.37 64.1% 4.50%Union membersProportion of  
union membershipAverage age of  
union members
8,275 73.90%* 42.0
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Employment of persons 
with disabilities1.76% 1.96% 1.88%
Re-employment 122* 246* 352
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Leave of absence for nursing care 2 5 5
Leave of absence for childcare 49 49 54
Leave of absence for volunteer work 0 1 0*  As the number of new graduate recruited for the fiscal year is confirmed at the beginning of 
April, the number in the chart above represents new graduate recruitment at the beginning of April 2009. Also the total includes 10 employees (7 males, 3 females) who are graduates of high-school, college of technology or specialized training college.
* Revised on the next day of the end of fiscal 2006 and 2007.
*  Number of employees who took newly each fiscal year. 50 female employees and 9 males for  
fiscal 2008.*  Turnover rate:  Numerator: Attrition + Fixed-age retirement + Transfer + New Start for Senior 
Employees program (excluding employees transferred to sales companies based on new sales strategies in October 2007).
Denominator: Annual average number of employees at Fuji Xerox (non-consolidated) + Average number of seconded employees.* Ratio to the number of regular employees (11,196)
* Accumulated paid leave:  A system enabling employees to accumulate unused leave up to 60 days. 
Accumulated leave may be used for health care, childcare, nursing care and volunteer activities.▶Systems for work-life balance
•  All of these systems provide for more generous leave than is required by 
law.
▶Labor accident ratio and labor accident severity
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Labor Accident Ratio*10.49 0.18 0.23
Labor Accident Severity*20.00 0.00 0.00
*1   Labor Accident Ratio  =
*2   Labor Accident Severity  =Number of labor accident victims
Gross number of hours worked× 1,000× 1,000,000Gross number of hours worked
Number of workdays lost▶Revisions to systems conducted according to agreements 
between the labor union and the company As of March 31, 2009
Fiscal year Item
Fiscal 2005•  Implementation of transfer system
•  Revision to secondment system
Fiscal 2006•  Revisions to human resource systems
•  Implementation of SLP*
Fiscal 2007 •  Implementation of comprehensive secondment system
Fiscal 2008 •  Revisions to travel expense regulations
▶Respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination*Second Life Program
Data and InformationFujifilm Group Green Policy
Aiming for high environmental quality as a Group
Fujifilm Group Green PolicyA. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Consolidated)
D. Consumed Packing Materials (Fujifilm only)C. Atmospheric Emissions of VOCs (Consolidated)
F . Water Consumption (Consolidated)B. Consumed Natural Resources (Consolidated)
E. Waste Generation (Consolidated)
The Fujifilm Group Green Policy was issued in April 2002, and it has been applied across the entire Group as the Group’s 
Medium-term Environmental Policy in a three-stage structure—Basic Policy, Action Guidelines, and Nine Priority Targets. From fiscal 2009 onward, we will continue to pursue even higher environmental quality based on the Fujifilm Group Green Policy as a united effort.
Basic Policy
“Sustainable development” is the most important issue for our planet, the human race, and all business entities in the 21st century.
The Fujifilm Group companies around the world aim to stay at the forefront of efforts to attain this goal in terms of environmental, economic, and social aspects. We will strive for customer satisfaction as well as our contribution to “sustainable development” by achieving high “environmental quality” in products, services, and corporate activities.
Action GuidelinesEco-Efficiency: (Eco-Efficiency=Revenues/Value for Environmental Burden)
■On target (above scheduled target guideline)     ■Additional effort required to meet target (below scheduled target guideline)     ●Target
Affected by the scale of global economic decline that surpassed expectations, total sales declined rapidly in fiscal 2008, resulting in a drop in the year-on-year eco-efficiency rate for all items.
[Special notes]*Greenhouse gas emission level: Activity is underway to reduce CO
2 emissions, include the promotion of natural gas use, under the in-house global warming prevention project.
*Consumed natural resources: In-house aluminum recycling (PS to PS) activity is underway.*Waste generation: Conversion to valuable resources has been implemented especially in domestic factories. ▶Fujifilm Priority Targets (Revised April 2009)❶ We will promote environmental burden reduction and product safety 
assurance with the following three items in mind:
(1)  Our efforts are pursued throughout all corporate activities.
(2)  Our efforts are pursued throughout the entire product life cycle.
(3)  We give overall consideration to economic and social  
implications.
❷ We will improve our management of chemical substances and the chemical content of products to reduce environmental risks.
❸
 We will comply with legal regulations as well as Fujifilm Group regu-lations, standards, and requirements that are individually agreed on.❹
 We will strengthen partnerships with our business partners, collabo-rate in government and industrial activities, and actively participate in community activities.
❺
 We will actively give full disclosure of the information regarding our involvement in and accomplishment of various environmental activities to all associated individuals, including local communities, governments, and Fujifilm Group company employees, to facilitate open communication.
❻
 We will heighten the environmental awareness of every Fujifilm Group employee through employee education, so that we can fortify our infrastructure to face the challenges posed by environmental is-sues in the future.
Priority Targets Specific Activities
1.  Counter-
measures against global warming[Six main production sites in Japan]
*
30% improvement in energy intensity in FY 2012  (vs. FY1990)40% improvement in CO
2 emissions intensity  in FY 
2012 (vs. FY1990)[Other Group member companies]Establishment of individual targets
*  Six main sites in Japan: Kanagawa (Ashigara, Odawara), 
Fujinomiya, Yoshida-Minami, FOM, FFQ❶ Promoting energy conservation, efficiency improvements, transition to use of natural gas as fuel, 
development of new technologies, etc.
❷ Promoting measures and technological development that help reduce CO 2 emissions at various stages, 
including raw material procurement, distribution, and disposal
❸ Enhancing the deployment of activities to educate employees and their families on reducing CO 2 
emissions (ICE Project)
<Efforts within the Global Warming Prevention Committee>
2.  Efficient use 
of resources(1)  Promoting environmentally-conscious product  design ❶ Thorough adherence to the three R’s (reduce, reuse, recycle) in the design of new and improved products
❷ Identifying major factors generating environmental burden in product life cycles and reducing such load
(2)  Doubling Eco-Efficiency * in FY 2010 (vs.FY2000)
A. Waste Generation
B. Consumed Natural Resources
C.  Atmospheric Emissions of Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOCs)
D. Water Consumption 
E. Consumed Packaging Materials
*  Eco-Efficiency (environmental efficiency) = revenue divided 
by environmental burdenA.  Reducing waste through increased yields, reuse of loss portions, and conversion of loss portions into 
valuables
B.  Reducing consumed natural resources through promotion of recovery and reuse
C.  Reducing VOC emissions from the filmmaking process
D.  Reducing water volumes used through promotion of reuse; for example, coolant water
E.  Sustained efforts to reduce the size of packaging and switch to packaging materials of lower environmental burden
3.  Improving the chemical substance control❶ Developing a structure (including the supply chain) for management of chemical substances contained in 
products
❷ Enhancing global governance to comply with product-related laws and regulations
❸ Update current risk assessment systems
4.  Environmental protection at production sites❶ Steadfastly maintaining a system of compliance with legal requirements and self-directed control 
objectives  Enhance the current system of compliance with legal requirements and company objectives
❷ Improving systems and processes to ensure proper management of wastes
❸ Companies inside Japan: Maintaining "Zero Emissions" (Zero Waste Disposal) and improving quality of 
resource recycling
❹ Companies outside Japan: Sustained efforts to achieve "Zero Emissions" (Zero Waste Disposal)
5.  Enhancing the 
infrastructure for achieving environmental targets(1)  Risk management through management sys-tems
❶ Adherence to IMS and EMS and effective use of IMS and EMS
❷ Expanding IMS adoption at production facilities
❸ Enhancing product-safety risk management
(2)  Information disclosure, provision of information, 
communication❶ Proactively disclosing information in various ways (e.g., sustainability reports, websites)
❷ Appropriate consideration of outside views through dialogue with stakeholders
(3)  Employee education ❶ Education and training related to the environment, quality, and safety
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 48 49 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009▶Eco-Efficiency from Fiscal 2004 to Fiscal 2008
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.41 1.421.44 1.44
1.40
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.481.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.0
1.54.6(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 target
2010 (Fiscal year)
0123453.173.604.194.60
4.42
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.211.261.281.43
1.29
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.02.2(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.02.51.741.782.112.20
1.92
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.02.53.0
1.53.5(Eco-Efﬁciency)
Scheduled target
guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)2.192.532.882.97
2.68
Scheduled target
guideline2010 targetScheduled target
guideline
2010 target2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.41 1.421.44 1.44
1.40
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.481.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.0
1.54.6(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 target
2010 (Fiscal year)
0123453.173.604.194.60
4.42
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.211.261.281.43
1.29
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.02.2(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.02.51.741.782.112.20
1.92
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.02.53.0
1.53.5(Eco-Efﬁciency)
Scheduled target
guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)2.192.532.882.97
2.68
Scheduled target
guideline2010 targetScheduled target
guideline
2010 target2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.41 1.421.44 1.44
1.40
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.481.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.0
1.54.6(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 target
2010 (Fiscal year)
0123453.173.604.194.60
4.42
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.211.261.281.43
1.29
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.02.2(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.02.51.741.782.112.20
1.92
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.02.53.0
1.53.5(Eco-Efﬁciency)
Scheduled target
guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)2.192.532.882.97
2.68
Scheduled target
guideline2010 targetScheduled target
guideline
2010 target2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.41 1.421.44 1.44
1.40
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.481.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.0
1.54.6(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 target
2010 (Fiscal year)
0123453.173.604.194.60
4.42
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.211.261.281.43
1.29
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.02.2(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.02.51.741.782.112.20
1.92
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.02.53.0
1.53.5(Eco-Efﬁciency)
Scheduled target
guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)2.192.532.882.97
2.68
Scheduled target
guideline2010 targetScheduled target
guideline
2010 target2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.41 1.421.44 1.44
1.40
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.481.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.0
1.54.6(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 target
2010 (Fiscal year)
0123453.173.604.194.60
4.42
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.211.261.281.43
1.29
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.02.2(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.02.51.741.782.112.20
1.92
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.02.53.0
1.53.5(Eco-Efﬁciency)
Scheduled target
guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)2.192.532.882.97
2.68
Scheduled target
guideline2010 targetScheduled target
guideline
2010 target2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.41 1.421.44 1.44
1.40
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.481.52
1.38
1.31
1.14
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.0
1.54.6(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 target
2010 (Fiscal year)
0123453.173.604.194.60
4.42
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.0(Eco-Efﬁciency) 2010 target
Scheduled target guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.01.211.261.281.43
1.29
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.01.52.02.2(Eco-Efﬁciency)
2010 (Fiscal year)
0.00.51.01.52.02.51.741.782.112.20
1.92
2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 20081.02.02.53.0
1.53.5(Eco-Efﬁciency)
Scheduled target
guideline
2010 (Fiscal year)2.192.532.882.97
2.68
Scheduled target
guideline2010 targetScheduled target
guideline
2010 targetData and Information
▶Fuji Xerox Priority Targets (Environmental Medium-Term and 2009 Targets)
Controlling Global Warming
Management  
Items2009 TargetsMedium-Term Targets
(2011; 2010 for some figures)
Products
Conservation 
of resourcesCO 2 emission reductions 
through parts reuse:  30 kt-CO
2CO 2 emission reduction through 
parts reuse: 33.5 kt-CO 2
Facilities & factoriesDevelopment & ManufacturingAction on CO
2 reduction 
target for the four electrical/electronic industries: 35% reduction in CO
2 intensity from 2008 
to 2012, which is the JBMIA target (compared with 1990)Action on CO
2 reduction target 
for the four electrical/electronic industries: 35% reduction in CO
2 intensity from 2008 to 
2012, which is the JBMIA target (compared with 1990)
Absolute CO
2 emissions: 
129 kt-CO 2  
(older conversion coefficient);  124 kt-CO
2 (new 
conversion coefficient)Absolute CO 2 emissions: CO 2 
emission level for 12 production/development facilities to decrease to the 2005 level by 2010  (136 kt-CO
2 in older conversion 
coefficient and 132 kt-CO 2 in new 
conversion coefficient)
Offices Absolute CO 2 emissions: 
2% reduction over 2007Absolute CO 2 emissions: 1% 
reduction from domestic and overseas offices by 2011 (compared with 2007)
Distribution
CO 2 emission control and 
product shipping: 277 ktCO 2 emission control and product 
shipping: 374 kt-CO 2  
(within 44 kt-CO 2 for aircraft &  
330 kt-CO 2 for others)
SalesHardware Wider sales of energy-
conserving productsWider sales of energy-conserving 
products
Services Integration of service 
solution effects aimed at a 
carbon balance(1)  Wider sales of environment-
conscious service solutions
(2)  Continued integration of CO 2 
emission control effect into 
carbon balancePreservation of Natural Resources
Management  
Items2009 TargetsMedium-Term Targets
(2011; 2010 for some figures)
Products3R*1Reduction in 
consumption of new resources through parts reuse: 4,000 tonsRecycling rate for recovered parts: 99.9% in Japan; 99.5% in Asia-Pacific; 96.5% in ChinaReduction in consumption of new resources through parts reuse: 4,600 tonsRecycling rate for recovered parts: Maintenance of more than 99.9% for Japan; stable maintenance of 99.5% level for Asia-Pacific; study how to achieve more than 97% and improvement measures for China
Paper Active use of 
environment-conscious raw materials: 34% used paper recycling rate; 19% sales ratio of FSC certified paperIncreased use of used paper: Used paper recycling rate of 40% of total sales volumeIncrease in FSC certified products: ratio of certified products 23% of total sales volume
Facilities & factoriesProduction facilitiesDecrease in water 
consumption: Plan development for 20% 
reduction from 2005 level in 2009Decrease in water consumption: 25% reduction (compared with 2005)
Offices Establishment of zero 
emission issues and 
improvement schedule; 
definition, expansion and 
implementation of zero 
emission boundaryAchievement of zero emissions by the sales headquarters, affiliates & overseas sales companies (2010)
Distribution Development of a recycling-based packaging system: Reduction in new resource consumption by 8% (based on 2005 level)Reduction in new resource consumption by 12% (based on 2005 level) Reduction in Environmental Risks from Chemical Substances
Management  
Items2009 TargetsMedium-Term Targets
(2011; 2010 for some figures)
ProductsRoHS compliance: 
Adoption of policy to comply with EU/China RoHS revisionRoHS compliance: Completion of compliance with China RoHS Level 2 (CCC) directive (printers)Completion of compliance with modified EU RoHS product directive
REACH compliance: Database system design startedREACH compliance: Chemical substance registration problem for formula components resolved.Establishment of research & control system for chemical substances found in parts & components
Facilities & factoriesVOC*2 reduction 
(20 substances designated by four electrical/electronic industry organizations): Measures adopted to achieve the medium-term planVOC
*2 reduction  
(20 substances designated by four electrical/electronic industry organizations): 30% reduction for 20 VOC substances (compared with 2000) (in 2010)
Elimination of designated parts and materials:Assessment of conditions for three newly added types; identification of safety measures; development of prevention budgetsElimination of designated parts and materials:Total elimination of exposure risks to employees in Japan and other countries (in 2010)
Soil & underground water contamination prevention measures: Soil radiation at Takematsu PlantSoil & underground water contamination prevention measures: Reduction of contamination risks
*1   3Rs: Environmental approach to “reduce” consumption of resources, “reuse” what can be used repeatedly and “recycle” raw materials when no longer usable.
*2   VOC: Acronym for volatile organic compounds that are released from production processes. At Fuji Xerox, the elimination targets are the 20 chemical substances (including seven substances regulated under the 
PRTR law) designated by four industry organizations including Japan Business Machines and Information System Industries Association (JBMIA).VOICEEnvironmental Burdens of the Fujifilm Group
We have started assessment of the environmental burden on the 
whole Fujifilm Group based on the LCA method last year. By con-verting into greenhouse gases (CO
2) the environmental burden at 
each stage of business, from procurement of materials and parts used for products provided by the Fujifilm Group to manufacturing and shipping, as well as use, disposal and recycling by users, we can see what environmental burden is found where and what mea-sures should be implemented.
Again, the impact of procurement was high in 2008 and 
higher than the 2007 level. This was due to the increase in the procurement volume of aluminum, which has a large impact on the metal refining process. On the other hand, the impact of “manufac-
turing” fell below the 2007 level, with a drop in output following the financial crisis, and a CO
2 reduction effect resulting from energy 
conversion from crude oil to natural gas (by approx. 20,000 tons).ʫ ʫ What Product Lifecycle Assessment Reveals
PS plates for which aluminum is primarily used are now being  melted again after use for recycling as PS plates (PS to PS meth-od). As a result, we were able to reduce CO
2 emissions in “ procure-
ment” by roughly 40,000 tons in 2008. Environmental burdens of the Fujifilm Group (Fiscal 2008)
Analyzing environmental burden for the entire Fujifilm Group by LCA (Life Cycle Assessment)Direct control over environmental burden by Fujifilm Group
(CO 2 1,000 tons) (CO 2 1,000 tons)
*1  Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): A method of quantitatively assessing the environmental burden of products from procurement, manufacturing, transportation, usage, disposal, and recycling.
*2   To calculate the equivalent amount of CO 2 emissions, the basic unit of CO 2 emissions was based on an inter-industry relations table, which is a statistical matrix of inter-industry transactions of goods and  
services conducted over a given period (typically one year) in the domestic economy of Japan, as compiled by Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications. *1   Environmental burden of resource procurement was estimated with major 
procurement materials.
*2   Environmental burden of product manufacturing was estimated with total amount of electricity, oil, and gas the Group used.  (Electricity includes photovoltaic generation 149,000 kWh, wind power generation 1,469,000 kWh.)
*3   Environmental burden of transportation was estimated with the model of domestic and international transportation.
*4   Environmental burden of product usage by customers: for 2009 model printers and copiers, estimated with 5-year amount of energy used, and for other products, estimated by multiplying the estimated number of products in operation by the estimated amount of energy used for other products.
*5   Environmental burden of disposal and recycling was estimated amount expected from the disposal of products/recycling of materials.
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 50 51 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 200905001,0001,5002,0002,500
05001,0001,5002,0002,500Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2007
Procurement Manufacturing Transportation Usage Disposal and
recyclingProcurement Manufacturing Transportation Usage Disposal and
recycling508889
400
Materials for
copy machines,
printersTACPET
Copy machines
and printers ElectricityDSC
Graphic equipmentMedical equipmentMinilab2,163
1,516Others
gelatinsPEspaper/pulpoil/gas, etc.Silver
AluminumGases
Oil
450765
400
Materials for
copy machines,
printersTACSilver
Copy machines
and printers ElectricityDSC
Graphic equipmentMedical equipmentMinilab2,231
1,366Others
gelatinsPEspaper/pulpoil/gas, etc.
AluminumPET
Gases
Oil
05001,0001,5002,0002,500
05001,0001,5002,0002,500Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2007
Procurement Manufacturing Transportation Usage Disposal and
recyclingProcurement Manufacturing Transportation Usage Disposal and
recycling508889
400
Materials for
copy machines,
printersTACPET
Copy machines
and printers ElectricityDSC
Graphic equipmentMedical equipmentMinilab2,163
1,516Others
gelatinsPEspaper/pulpoil/gas, etc.Silver
AluminumGases
Oil
450765
400
Materials for
copy machines,
printersTACSilver
Copy machines
and printers ElectricityDSC
Graphic equipmentMedical equipmentMinilab2,231
1,366Others
gelatinsPEspaper/pulpoil/gas, etc.
AluminumPET
Gases
OilKen Kawada (right)
Senior Staff
Takahito Miyoshi (left)
Senior Staff
Ecology & Quality  
Management Division, 
FUJIFILM Corporation 
CO2 equivalent
2,231,000 tons*1Atmospheric emissions
CO 2 ........1,366,000 tons
VDC  ..............1,300 tons
SOx  ...................70 tons
NOx  .................700 tons
Soot  ...............10.5 tons
Discharged water
Water ........... 52.0 million tons
COD  .........................99.0 tons
BOD  .........................48.5 tons
Total azode ............290.5 tons
Total phosphorus  ......5.1 tonsAmount of 
cyclic water 
used
80 million tons
Waste material
66,400 tonsDischarged 
water
Material recyclingWaste materialElectricity*2Water Electricity Water
Material recycling
Aluminum/PET/TACWaste 
materialAtmospheric 
emissions
CO 2  ........450,000 tons*3Atmospheric 
emissions
CO 2  ........765,000 tons*4Atmospheric 
emissions
CO 2  ........400,000 tons*5
Environmental burden of  
product manufacturing
Electricity used, Combustion of oil and gases
Use of water → discharge, Waste
• Electricity:  1,229 million kWh
• Oil:  124,000 kL• Natural gas:  163 million m3
• Water:  55 million tonsEnvironmental burden of  
resource procurement
Resource mining/Logistics/Purification and 
Refinement/Synthesis and Processing
Material transportation
• Aluminum:  136,700 tons
• Silver:  1,200 tons• PET:  35,400 tons
• TAC:  48,500 tonsEnvironmental burden of 
product transportation
Combustion of heavy oil  
and gasoline
Use of electricityEnvironmental burden of 
product usage  
by customers
Use of electricity
Use of waterEnvironmental burden of 
waste and recycling
Waste combustion
Recycling energyData and InformationFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 52 53 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009▶Breakdown of energy consumption (Consolidated)
▶Main recycling methods for waste productsEnvironmental Aspects
Total amount used  
(Fiscal 2007)Six main domestic 
factories*Other domestic 
facilitiesOverseas 
facilities
25,894 TJ (Terajoules) 53% 21% 26%
▶Energy consumption
▶CO 2 emissions*
▶Breakdown of energy consumption (Consolidated)▶Amount of CO 2 reductions and reduction rates through 
transportation efficiency improvements* (Domestic distribution)
▶Volume of waste generation (Consolidated)
▶ Total CO 2 emissions in domestic logistics*▶ Reduction ratio of packing materials for export*  
(Cumulative total)Six main domestic factoriesFiscal 
1990Fiscal 
2000Fiscal 
2007Fiscal 
2008Fiscal 2012 
(Scheduled)
FUJIFILM Opto Materials  
Co., Ltd.― ― 2,767 2,014 2,166
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd. ― ― 1,463 1,772 2,185
Fujifilm Kanagawa Factories (Ashigara and Odawara sites)5,572 5,641 5,294 4,661 4,605
Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory946 968 1,182 1,162 1,192
Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory 3,720 5,556 4,807 4,103 4,313
Total 10,238 12,166 15,514 13,712 14,461
Energy intensity (%) 100 92 87 91 81
Six main domestic factoriesFiscal 
1990Fiscal 
2000Fiscal 
2007Fiscal 
2008Fiscal 2012 
(Scheduled)
FUJIFILM Opto Materials  
Co., Ltd.― ― 160 106 104
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd. ― ― 69 84 102
Fujifilm Kanagawa Factories (Ashigara and Odawara sites)337 354 298 260 210
Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory48 48 59 58 58
Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory 235 377 295 248 262
CO
2 reductions as a result of 
switching from heavy oil to 
natural gas―  –0.05 –115 –133 –195
CO 2 emissions intensity (%) 100 97 81 83 68
UnitsDomestic and overseas (Consolidated)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Purchased power (total) Million kWh 1,436.5 1,421.7 1,228.7
Bunker oil A 1,000 kl 119.7 94.5 61.3
Bunker oil C 1,000 kl 72.7 52.0 42.5
Kerosene 1,000 kl 4.0 5.7 5.1
LGO 1,000 kl 3.6 6.2 2.6
LPG 1,000 tons 1.8 2.2 2.2
Natural gas* Million Nm3144.0 172.2 163.3Units Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Amount of CO 2 reductions Tons CO 2/year 715.7 3,550.1 5,810.1
CO 2 reduction rate (%) % 1.2 6.1 10.4
Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Domestic consolidated 36.2 46.8 40.7 36.7
Overseas consolidated 12.7 30.2 29.8 29.7Total 48.9 77.0 70.5 66.4
Units Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Total CO 2 emissions Tons CO 2/year 60,499 54,254 49,825Reduction ratio (%)* Reduction ratio (%)*
2008 Apr. 2.0 Oct. 2.8
May 5.4 Nov. 2.1
Jun. 5.1 Dec. 3.3
Jul. 6.1 2009 Jan. 1.7
Aug. 5.4 Feb. 1.4
Sep. 5.4 Mar. 2.1Absolute values in TJ (Terajoules)
(Thousand tons of CO 2/year)▶Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (Consolidated)
▶Reductions in VOCs atmospheric emissions*  
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)(Thousand tons/year)
(Fiscal 2008)
Waste product Recycling method
Plastics (sorted)Pallets, pipes, clothing, heat insulation 
materials
Plastics (mixed) Blast furnace fuel
Magnetic tapeBlast furnace fuel, tatami mat material,  heat insulation materials
Filters Blast furnace fuel
Aluminum hydroxide Alumina
Inorganic sludge, polishing agentCement, roadway material, construction materials
Organic solvent Paint thinner
Acids and alkalines Neutralizer
Mixed flammable waste productsSolid fuels, electricity and hot water production
Fluorescent lamp Glass wool, mercury
Batteries Zinc, smelt iron
Left over food, raw garbage,  organic sludgeFertilizer, animal feed
Documents, empty boxes Recycled paper
Metals such as iron, aluminum and copperSmelt metal▶Zero emissions
Fujifilm achieved its zero emissions targets in fiscal 2003, yet is constantly 
striving to take waste management to the next level. The next task that lies before us is to extend our zero emissions goals to Fujifilm affiliates such as overseas production facilities, paying special attention to those with high volumes of waste products. While the definition of ‘zero emissions’ differs at Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox due to inherent differences in our respective lines of business, zero emission activities can be defined as “efforts to recycle all waste material from business operations, and to ensure no waste is processed by simple incineration or landfill.”CO 2 reduction rate (%)  =Amount of CO 2 reductions
Total CO 2 emissions + CO 2 reductions
Packing material reduction ratio (%)  =Reduced weight
Total material weight + Reduced weight
▶Natural resources input (Consolidated)
▶Water input (Consolidated)Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Aluminum 79.6 124.3 129.9 136.7
TAC 13.8 45.6 50.4 48.5
PET 45.8 38.6 40.6 35.4
Gelatin 5.8 4.5 7.4 4.4
Silver 1.2 0.5 1.0 1.2
Total (Consolidated) 146.2 213.5 229.3 226.2
Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Domestic 56.1 50.2 49.2 48.1
Overseas 4.2 7.3 7.3 7.0
Consolidated 60.3 57.5 56.5 55.1(Thousand tons/year)
(Millions tons/year)
*Natural gas: City gas is included in natural gas.* Total weight of Packing Materials handled by FUJIFILM Logistics Co., Ltd. in fiscal 2008 are for 
Export 3,939 tons. Total reduction weight and reduction rate are 145 tons and 3.5 % respectively.
* Total CO 2 emissions are the calculated amount of all of Fujifilm Group companies that FUJIFILM 
Logistics Co., Ltd. had business. Since fiscal 2006, we shifted calculation method to the method based on revised Energy Conservation Law (travel distance of empty cars is not included in calcu-lations, etc.)*  In the fiscal year 2008, we enforced our activities for CO
2 reductions in collaboration with a speci-
fied consigner. Major reduction initiatives, which proved effective, include improving carrying efficiency by double stacking during transport and enhancing gasoline mileage by eco-driving.* The sites shown in following “Energy consumption” and “CO
2 emissions” tables.▶Consumption of packaging and wrapping materials  
(Fujifilm non-consolidated)
Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Cardboard 11.0 7.6 7.8 8.9
Paper materials 8.0 6.8 5.9 5.3
Paper containers 6.0 3.2 3.9 3.1
Metal materials 3.6 2.6 2.5 1.9
Extruded plastic materials 6.2 4.2 3.8 3.3
Plastic film sheets 0.7 0.4 0.7 0.8
Total 35.5 24.8 24.6 23.3Fiscal 2000 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Domestic consolidated 3.1 1.3 1.3 1.1
Overseas consolidated 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2
Total 3.3 1.6 1.5 1.3
Category Name of substanceReduction 
(tons)Reduction rate 
in comparison to 
fiscal 2000 (%)
Substances requiring 
reporting under the PRTR LawDichloromethane 227 64
Methyl alcohol 1,386 79
Ethyl acetate 276 68
Substances voluntarily controlled by the companyMethyl ethyl ketone 162 79
Acetone 106 82(Thousand tons/year)
(Thousand tons/year)*Reduction in volumes in fiscal 2008 compared with actual levels in fiscal 2000.
*  Calculation method: Method to calculate CO 2 emissions from energy usage. Domestic: Calculated 
in compliance with the Ministry of Environment Guidelines (proposed). For electricity purchases, 
however, the average value for the Federation of Electric Power Companies was used up to fiscal 2004 and the coefficients for each electric power company were used for fiscal 2005 and later.▶Storage and management of devices/equipment  
containing PCBs* (Consolidated)▶Response to the PRTR Law (Domestic consolidated)
In addition to those substances that must be reported under the PRTR Law 
(Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law), Fujifilm controls another 10 items on a voluntary basis, primarily substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association as requiring autonomous monitoring, and has been endeavoring to reduce those emission on consolidated basis. Data (usage volume, atmospheric emissions volume, volume going into sewage water, volume moved outside of facilities, and volume recycled) on substances used in amounts of one ton or more per year by Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates may be found on the following Fujifilm website.
Types of equipment  
containing PCBsUnitStoring and managing amount
Domestic 
consolidatedDomestic 
and overseas 
consolidated
High voltage transformers Quantity 1 18
High voltage condensers Quantity 370 460
PCB oil waste, etc. Kg 201.11 201.11
Sludge, etc. m310,400.1 10,400.1
Fluorescent lamp stabilizers Quantity 15,290 16,790
Low voltage condenser 
excluding fluorescent lampsQuantity 117,165 117,165
Low voltage transformer Quantity 4 31
Rags Kg 929 929
Other devices Quantity 14 14
*Not including items with trace levels of PCBs http://www.fujiﬁlm.co.jp/corporate/environment/
preservation/chemicalsmanagement/production/prtr.htmlURL
(in Japanese only)
Data and InformationFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 54 55 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009▶ Surveying and remediation soil and underground water 
pollution conditions (Fujifilm and its domestic affiliates)▶ Responses to environment-related complaints and legal  violations in fiscal 2008
*
▶Introduction of an Integrated Management System (IMS)▶ Legal compliance and reports on complaints
The Fujifilm Group autonomously conducts environmental surveys on soil 
and underground water pollution. Regarding substances that are used at manufacturing facilities and that are subject to environmental limits set by regulations, the Group rigorously manages the usage and storage of such substances and monitors the concentrations of such substances in underground water. We are prepared to deal with any unforeseen pollution incidents in a timely fashion.
The Fujifilm Group has introduced IMS in phases at the head offices and 
sales/marketing divisions of Fujifilm and affiliated companies. Through integration of business operations with CSR activities, evaluation is con-ducted from the perspective of stakeholders related to the operation, contributing to continual business improvement through enhancement of business operation quality, mitigation of environmental impact and other constructive and effective measures.In 2008, there were seven violations of environment-related laws and 10 customer complaints—all of them addressed immediately. Greater effort will be made to implement exhaustive controls and to prevent any recur-rence.
▶ Environmental-related complaints and legal violations  
in fiscal 2008
Domestic Overseas Total
Number of complaints
(number of cases solved)5 2 7
(5) (2) (7)
Number of legal violations(number of cases solved)10 0 10
(10) (0) (10)
<FUJIFILM Fujinomiya Factory> (Legal violation)
Issues:  Carbon dioxide concentration in furnace emission gas exceed-
ed the regulation level of 100 ppm under the Waste Manage-ment and Public Cleaning Law.
Response:  Exhaustive review of the carbon dioxide concentration control standards and reported on the conditions, causes and correc-tive measures to the regulatory authorities. Also, the carbon di-oxide measurement results for three months after the incident were submitted to verify that the condition has been resolved.
<FUJIFILM Tokyo Head Office> (Legal violation)
Issues:  Sludge resulting from grease trap cleaning at the Nishiazabu Head Office was commissioned to a waste disposal service without concluding a subcontractor contract.
Response:  A contract with an appropriate collection, transport and dis-posal service was concluded immediately, and an inspection was also conducted to ensure that there are no other similar errors.
<FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc., Mesa> (Legal violation)
Issues:  Fluoride concentration in wastewater exceeded the regulation level for the city of Mesa, Arizona.
Response:  The monitoring system was revamped to ensure reliability. (System facility and maintenance were implemented, and management rules were reinforced.)
<FUJIFILM Asaka District> (Complaint) others
Issues:  A complaint was made that the branches and leaves of trees planted on the premises were setting off the sensors of the adjoining condominium parking area.
Response:  The trees in question were trimmed, an apology was made and the result was reported to the residents of the neighbor -
hood.
<Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials> (Complaint) noise and vibration
Issues:  A complaint was issued from residents of the neighborhood, regarding the noise and vibration from the pressurized exhaust fan.
Response:  The exhaust fan was replaced with a new one, and the bug filter on the exhaust hood that was causing clogging was re-moved.
<Toyama Chemical, Toyama Factory> (Complaint) others
Issues:  A complaint was issued on possible overflow from the conduit passing through the premises.
Response:  Materials that were blocking the passage of water were re -
moved and the conduit was flushed out to reduce the water level. Later, a wastewater pump was added.
*  Reported violations and complaints have been listed, excluding relatively minor incidents.▶Volume of atmospheric emissions (Consolidated)(Tons/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
SOx emissionsDomestic 357 84 66
Overseas 5 6 3
Domestic and overseas 362 90 69
NOx emissionsDomestic 907 786 612
Overseas 96 111 84
Domestic and overseas 1,003 897 695
Soot particle 
emissionsDomestic 14.7 8.8 6.4
Overseas 0.2 0.2 4.1
Domestic and overseas 14.8 9.0 10.5
Atmospheric emissions of specified CFCsCFC-11 0.85 1.51 0.76
CFC-12 0.02 0.01 0.01
▶Amount of water pollutant emissions (Consolidated)(Tons/year)
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Total amount of 
COD*1Domestic 91.1 76.2 85.6
Overseas 15.4 20.3 13.5
Domestic and overseas 106.5 96.5 99.1
Total amount of BOD*2Domestic 35.1 40.0 45.5
Overseas 4.6 4.7 3.0
Domestic and overseas 39.7 44.7 48.5
Total amount of nitrogen emissionsDomestic 290.6 258.8 290.3
Total amount of phosphorous emissionsDomestic 3.9 4.3 5.0
*1 COD  (Chemical Oxygen Demand): An indicator of water pollution. COD indicates the amount of 
oxygen consumed when water-borne pollutants (primarily organic contaminants) are oxi-dized upon the introduction of an oxidant.
*2 BOD  (Biochemical Oxygen Demand): BOD is a way to measure the degree of water pollution, and indicates how much oxygen in the water is being used by organisms to decompose con-taminants by looking at the reduction in oxygen in the water.
http://www.fujiﬁlm.co.jp/corporate/
environment/preservation/site/leakage/URL
http://www.fujiﬁlm.com/sustainability/
iso_certiﬁcation/index.html#h2-1URL▶Environmental accounting for fiscal 2008▶Overview of fiscal 2008Environmental Accounting
▶Customer benefits
The customer benefits were calculated in amounts through comparing 
the use of a new product purchased by the client with the environmental burden when the customer uses an older product. The total customer ben-efits in fiscal 2008 declined alongside the decrease in sales volume over the previous year. However, the impact of magnetic memory materials (for computer storage tapes) increased over fiscal 2007 due to the rise in sales of new products with higher memory densities. 
(¥ Million)
*1   SOx emissions reductions: ¥6,086/ton
Bidding price of SOx emissions credits offered by the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency in March 2009 (US$62/ton).
*2   VOC emissions reductions: ¥350,000/ton
From the “Economics Evaluation Report on Countermeasures 
for Harmful Atmospheric Pollutants” issued by Japan Environ-mental Management Association for Industry, February 2004.
*3   CO
2 emissions reductions: ¥1,559/tons
Trading price of EU emissions credit 2009 futures (€12.6/ton) at the end of March 2009.
*4   Landfill costs for the waste product (¥100/kg).
*5   Water resource consumption reduction: ¥200/ton for clean 
water supply, ¥200/ton for sewage water times the reductions amount.
*6  These values were recalculated according to the revised data.Environmental Conservation Costs Environmental Conservation Effectiveness
Capital investment Expenses Economic impact inside the Group Economic impact outside the Group
(Fiscal Year) 2007 2008 2007 2008 (Fiscal Year) 2007 2008 (Fiscal Year) 2007 2008
1.  Expenses incurred within the business site 8,298 9,759 15,497 14,680
     (1)  Environmental damage prevention 5,215 7,476 6,722 7,920Reduction of pollution levy –2 19Reduction in SOx emissions*111 0.1
Reduction in volume of SOx 
emissions273 tons 18 tons
Reduction in volume of NOx emissions121 tons*6174 tons
Reduction in VOC emissions*22 56
Reduction in volume of VOC emissions6 tons*6161 tons
     (2)  Global environmental protection 2,751 1,850 4,768 3,681 Energy conservation –40 2,593Reduction in CO 2 emissions*3–29*6251
Reduction in volume of CO 2 
emissions–9,000 tons*6162,000 tons
     (3)  Resource recycling 332 433 4,007 3,079Reduction of raw materials and resources used13,071 10,032
Reduction of waste materials through reuse and recycling
*4
Reduced volume12,334*6
123,300 tons*610,753
107,500 tonsWater resource consumption reduction*5 561 189
Recovery and recycling
     Silver 3,351 1,224
     Polymeric materials 1,481 1,013
     Aluminum materials 2,168 792 Reuse of aluminum materials
Reduction in volume of CO 2 
emissions137 60
     Other recycling 407 1,523 40,000 tons 40,000 tons
2.  Upstream/downstream costs Recovery from the market37 36 10,876 10,835QuickSnap recovery 89 99
Recovery of parts from used equipment10,369 10,477
3.  Cost of management activities 167 80 11,040 9,687
4.  Research and development costs 1,787 1,274 20,442 18,069Customer benefits are shown in the table above82,491 61,269
Film for LCDs: WV films
5.  Costs for social programs 63 0 147 154
6.  Costs for handling environmental damage Pollution levies0 1 72 78
Total 10,352 11,150 58,074 53,503 31,433 27,961 92,768 72,389(¥ Million)
ProductAmount
Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
1. High-density magnetic memory materials 2,676 4,114
2.  Pre-sensitized aluminum plate not using  
plate-making film36,082 26,295
3. Film for LCDs: WV films 28,800 18,151
4. Digital color multifunction device and printers 14,933 12,709
Total 82,491 61,269● The total capital investment in environmental conservation for fiscal 
2008 rose roughly 8% over the previous fiscal term, with the introduction of solvent recovery devices and updates to the wastewater processing facilities. However, the capital investment in global environmental con-servation was kept at roughly 70% through fiscal 2007, with the intro -
duction of the BOO scheme.
● Expenses on environmental conservation for fiscal 2008 were curbed by 
approximately ¥4.5 billion, through efforts made by various workplaces in the Group.
● The economic impact on the Group and outside the Group, in relation 
to the effects of environmental conservation, dropped over the previous year with the global economic downturn.
<Period of coverage>
Fiscal 2008 (April 1, 2008 –March 31, 2009)
<Scope of environmental accounting>
64 domestic companies in the Fujifilm Group (FUJIFILM Holdings, Fujifilm 
and 20 Fujifilm affiliates, Fuji Xerox and 40 Fuji Xerox affiliates and Toyama Chemical) 
<Basic items>
• Objectives of environmental accounting1.  To provide accurate quantitative information on volumes and economic effects to interested parties inside and outside the Group
2.  To provide numerical environment-related information useful for decision making by management and supervisors at the working level
• Accounting method
Based on the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 edition)” published by the Ministry of Environment in Japan.1.  Depreciation is calculated in principle according to the straight-line method over a three-year period.
2.  When costs include expenditures for both environmental and non-environmental purposes, the portion relating to non-environmental 
purposes has been excluded.
3.  Economic impact within the Group: The difference in value terms from the previous year in fines for polluting and usage of energy, raw materials, water, and other resources is accounted for, as well as the real impact of recovery, recycling, and other measures in value terms for the year in question.
4.  Economic impact outside the Group: The difference in value terms from the previous fiscal year has been shown for SOx, VOCs, and CO
2. For recycling, the anticipated benefit in value terms has been shown for the year in question. To compute the benefit for custom-
ers, the economic benefit for the year in question has been calculated assuming that customers are using the new, environmentally friendly product.Environmental Aspects
*6*6
*6
(in Japanese only)
Data and InformationThe company pursues the creation of value as described in its Mission Statement through the 
pursuit of corporate quality. We believe that what lies beyond this goal is creation of a sustain-able society. 
Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials carries on the spirit of Fuji Xerox, moving forward every day to 
achieve outstanding power in putting into practice and in making improvements under the slogan “becoming number one in 
kaizen power  founded on the growth of individual and on 
harmony in the team.”
As part of Fuji Xerox’s manufacturing of imaging materials, we are working to win a high 
level of satisfaction and trust from our customers by delivering high-quality products backed by advanced technologies and to contribute to the development and application of knowledge and wisdom.
Our EA toner based on a new manufacturing method has distinctive functional character-
istics that enable us to deliver outstanding resolution and adaptation to meet a wide variety of customer requirements. The product excels in its drastically reduced environmental burden, including in the manufacturing process.
We are manufacturing our products with pride to deliver “products that are environment-
friendly and that deliver outstanding image quality.” Through this, we will continue to contrib-ute to the advancement of the IT society and to the pursuit of outstanding corporate quality with the trust of our stakeholders and communities.
Principal activities in fiscal 2008 Environment-related award & registration
Environmental dialogue
Environmental dialogue meetings 
are being held every year, rooted in the local community and engag-ing local residents in exchanges of opinion.
Cleanup activities at Shimizu River
In every June as an environmental 
month, volunteers clean the Shimizu River which is located in Fujinomiya factory with local residents.Mount Fuji cleanup activities
Every fall, the Mount Fuji cleanup 
activities are held as part of the Fac-tory’s volunteer program. (In 2007, Mr. Ken Noguchi joined our activity.)①PRTR Award for Excellence
The Factory received this distinguished award given to business enterprises that carry out chemical control, engage in risk communication to gain the under -
standing of local residents and produce outstanding results.
②Registration in Waste and Risk  Governance
The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has laid down guidelines on how to handle waste from a business management perspective. The Factory including the Head Office, obtained Gold Registration. Third-Party Review Target Sites
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 56 57 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009CSR at Fuji Xerox is in pursuit of corporate quality.Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials Co., Ltd. FUJIFILM Corporation Fujinomiya Factory
˙ Location:  1277-6 Ojima, Namerikawa-shi, Toyama, Japan
˙ Date of establishment:  August 18, 2000
˙ Employees:  492 (as of April 1, 2009)
˙ Business outline:   Establishing molding and automated assembly lines for toner cartridges and EA toner 
at the factory realizes an all-encompassing manufacturing system from toner to cartridge production.
˙ Certification:   ISO 14001 (November 2002), ISO 9001 (October 2003), OHSAS 18001 (March 2005)
For the Environmental Report, please visit
   http://www.fxim.co.jp/environment/envi04.html  (in Japanese only)˙ Location:  200 Oonakazato, Fujinomiya-shi, Shizuoka, Japan
˙ Date of establishment:  October 16, 1963
˙ Employees:  1,109 (as of March 31, 2009)
˙ Business outline:   Production of photographic paper substrate, prescale, thermal paper, thermal  film, ink-jet paper, color zerography paper, PET film, medical/industrial x-ray film,  proofing materials for printing, materials for electric displays, etc.
˙ Certification:  ISO 14001 (August 1996)
*  FUJIFILM Corporation Fujinomiya Factory Sustainability Report 2009  (in Japanese only) will be issued in September 2009. 
Principal social contribution activities in fiscal 2008 Principal environmental activities in fiscal 2008
Environmental measurements and facility protection for wastewater, 
noise and odor
City beautification movement participation (twice a year)Eco Drive Toyama promotion office registration
•  Eco Drive Challenge Planning
Black Illumination support
•  Handmade candle workshops, etc.
Showing of educational film 
Kizuki  to promote awareness 
•  Al Gore’s Inconvenient Truth  shown the year before last
Participation in  
beautification movementAED workshop Collection of  Eco CapsCandles that were handmade by employeesReducing lighting, etc.:  Diligent energy-saving activitiesSchool children in the summer vacation factory tour
Introduction of and support for the Eco Cap movement in elementary and  
junior high schools
•  President Okamoto presenting certificates of gratitude to schools that have promoted the movement
•  Factory tour of children in the volunteer committee to the Eco Cap recycling plant
Community development, donations and sponsorships (sports tournaments and events)
Summer vacation company tours for school children from local elementary 
schools
•  Commemorative tree planting around the reservoir on the Factory premises
Internal sales of products from the local social welfare organization Glassware Workshop
Workshops on cardiac and pulmonary resuscitation methods and how to use 
AED units
•  Hope to serve as volunteers at local sports eventsYoshikazu Okamoto
President of Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials Co., Ltd.
Joh Kumura
Manager of 
Fujinomiya FactoryCorporate Vice President of FUJIFILM Corporation
Our Goals
Mission Statement
Creation of an environment that fosters 
development and the application of 
knowledge and wisdomGlobal mutual trust and 
contribution to cultural 
developmentRealization of growth for each 
individual and achievement of 
happiness
Fujifilm’s Fujinomiya Factory is located in the South West, close to the foot of Mount Fuji, 
blessed with clean air and abundant spring water provided by the winter snows. It is an ideal location for the precision chemistry industry. Backed by advanced production technologies and quality management technology, the factory is operating dynamically as a high-tech plant manufacturing printing subsrates, X-ray film for medical and industrial uses, various PET films and LCD filters. In today’s IT society, the factory expects to see its range of products grow fur-ther and its importance rise in the future.
Since the factory’s opening in 1963, we have been working on environmental conserva-
tion, carrying on the experience of our predecessors in protecting the environment through an accurate recognition of the environmental burden of manufacturing activities. Through con-tinuous improvement activities, we have been able to deliver a large number of achievements, including zero emission from waste, a reduction in CO
2 emissions, safety control of chemical 
substances, water conservation and energy-saving measures. A new project team had been formed, especially for measures to curb global warming. As a result of our uninterrupted ef-forts, we have been able to succeed in cutting our energy consumption dramatically.
In addition, we are continuing to engage in active communication with the local commu-
nity through environment dialogue held annually in the community and by cleaning the areas surrounding the factory in cooperation with local residents.
As a business enterprise, I look forward to continuing to do what needs to be done and 
complying with laws and regulations in addressing environmental issues, through interactive communication and exchanges of information with the local community. In this way, we want to keep the Factory operating in this location long into the future. “Fostering mutual understanding with the community and taking 
action on compliances that must be completed.”Data and InformationFUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 58 59 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009Since fiscal 2006, Fujifilm has 
been working on inspecting and improving the environ-mental management systems at all the facilities and offices of the company through field inspections conducted chiefly by members of the Environ-mental Management Divi-sion at Head Office. In fiscal 2008, 14 facilities with high environmental burden levels (including domestic group member companies) were inspected. The target facilities and items checked are shown on the right.
To facilitate improvements at each facility, items needing to be im-
proved were identified and the key points were clarified by inspecting the management in action together with members of the Environment Man -
agement Division.
In the future, the Division plans to pursue improvements in perfor -
mance across the entire corporate group by sharing information among facilities, in order to achieve a further reduction in emissions from waste.Domestic and International Appraisals Internal and External Communication
▶Ranking and status of SRI audit
Activities in Distribution
Field Inspection of Environmental 
ManagementJoint Environmental Dialogue Between Three 
Factories (in Yoshida-cho)
▶Appraisal and awards for FUJIFILM Holdings sites and domestic and overseas affiliates
Recipient Name of Appraisal and Award Awarding Entity
FUJIFILM Corporation (Ashigara site, Kanagawa Factory)Recognition and appreciation for activities to reduce illegal 
dumpingAshigara-kami Region Prefectural Administration Center in Kanagawa Prefecture
Fuji Xerox Imaging Materials Co., Ltd. Award for Excellence in safety driving management facility Toyama Prefecture Traffic Safety Liaison Counsel
Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Ebina CenterRecognition and appreciation for eco-drive monitoring project in Kanagawa PrefectureKanagawa Prefecture Eco Drive Promotion Council (Secretariat: Air & Water Quality Section, Environmental Department, Kanagawa Prefectural Government)
FUJIFILM Kyushu Co., Ltd.Certification as a “Business Facility Promoting a Comfortable Working Environment”Kumamoto Labour Bureau
FUJIFILM RI Pharma Co., Ltd. Safety Drivers Chiba 2008 Award for Excellence for Facility Chiba Prefecture Safety Driving Management Association
FUJIFILM Manufacturing U.S.A., Inc.Best Special JAKES Event (awarded to the Neil Cost Chapter headquartered in Greenwood)The Excellence in Pretreatment 2008 Gold AwardNational Wildlife Turkey Federation (NWTF) Greenwood Metropolitan District (GMD) 
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc. (Rolling Meadows)2007-2009 EPA Environmental Performance Track recertification award.U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
FUJIFILM Hunt Chemicals U.S.A., Inc. (Allendale) NJ State Smart Workplace Award NJ State, Dept of Tranasportation
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials U.S.A., Inc. (Rhode Island) Perfect Compliance Narragansett Bay Commission
FUJIFILM U.S.A., Inc. 2008 I3A Safety Excellence Award I3A (International Imaging Industry Association)
Fujicolor Processing, Inc. I3A Safety Excellence Best in Class Award - 2008 I3A (International Imaging Industry Association)
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants, Inc. SOCMA’s Gold Performance Improvement Award Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates
FUJIFILM Electronic Materials (Europe) N.V. Preferred Quality Supplier Award Intel
FUJIFILM Imaging Colorants Limited Gold Award for Occupational Health and Safety (2008) The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA)
FUJIFILM (China) Investment Co., Ltd.Chinese Red Cross Certificate and Chinese Red Cross Human Service Medal for contributions during the Sichuan EarthquakeChinese Red CrossSurvey Evaluation for FUJIFILM Holdings
12th Nikkei Environment Management 
Survey (sponsored by Nihon Keizai Shimbun )6th out 510 manufacturers
4th Company Quality Management Survey(sponsored by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers)1st out 227 companies
Eco Brand Survey 2008 CSR evaluation ranking (Nikkei Business Publications, Inc.)43th out 560 companies (Eco-brand ranking index/deviation: 63.8) 
SAM Sustainability Year Book 2009 (Sustainable Asset Management AG)SAM Gold Class
Newsweek 500 List of the World’s Most Sustainable Companies 2009 (
Newsweek 
Global )177 out 817 companiesInclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 2008
Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Global Index
Inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment IndexFUJIFILM Holdings has received the following evaluations by 
external organizations as a corporate group that proactively promotes CSR actions toward sustainable development. It is in-cluded in the Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indexed listed below. Also listed below are evaluations of FUJIFILM Holdings in domestic and international ranking surveys.
FUJIFILM Logistics hold presentations on its CSR activities to  
41 of its partner logistics service providers
Reinforcing environmental governanceFUJIFILM Logistics, the com-
pany that is responsible for product and material logistics for the Fujifilm Group, held a presentation on its CSR activities in February 2009, assembling business partners that provide product logistics service to Fuji Xerox. In recent years, CSR-related activities, including environmental ac-tion, the working environment and personal information management, have grown in importance in the distribution industry as well. In view of these developments, the company held this meeting to share discussion on the direction to take.
On January 31, 2009, a meeting entitled “Environmental Dialogue in Yoshida-
cho: Factory Tour and Exchange with Local Residents, Administrators and Companies” was held jointly between three factories of the Fujifilm Group located in Yoshida-cho, Shizuoka Prefecture. 
Approximately 90 persons attended the meeting for exchanges of 
opinion directly with local residents on environmental activities at the factories. This meeting was held jointly between Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory, FUJIFILM Opto Materials, Fujifilm Electronic Materials and the gov-ernments of Yoshida-cho and Shizuoka Prefecture.
▶Major awards for fiscal 2008
•  The Sustainability Reports 2008  by FUJIFILM Holdings and Fuji 
Xerox both received the Award for Excellence in the Sustain-
ability Report Awards at the 12th Environmental Communication Awards (sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum) for the fourth time.
•  
FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report 2008  received the 
Award for Excellence in the sustainability report awards section of the 12th Environmental and Sustainability Report Awards (co-sponsored by Toyo Keizai, Inc. and the Green Reporting Forum) for the fifth consecutive year.
•  
FUJIFILM Holdings Sustainability Report 2008  and the Fujifilm 
website “We Can Change the World One by One”  won Silver 
Prizes in the CSR Environmental Report and Website categories at the 2009 Japan B to B Advertising Awards (sponsored by the Industrial Advertising Association of Japan).
•  
FUJIFILM Holdings Annual Report 2008  won recognition in 
the 11th Annual Report Awards sponsored by Nihon Keizai  Shimbun.
•  Fujifilm’s FinePix S100FS digital camera won the European Imaging and Sound Association (EISA) European Super Zoom Camera of The Year 2008-2009.
•  Fujifilm’s F200XR digital camera won the DIMA 2009 Innovative Digital Product Award at the PMA 2009 (Photo Marketing Asso-ciation Annual Show).
•  Fuji Xerox’s ApeosPort III C2200/C3300/C2205/C3305 series of color copiers and the DocuPrint C2250/C3360 color laser printer (24 products/10 models in total) won the Director-General of the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy Award at the 19th Energy Conservation Grand Prize (recognizing energy-saving equipment and systems) sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the 10th consecutive year, for the first-ever time in the industry.Corporate Profile
˙ Location:   10F Ginyo Shin-Yokohama Bldg. 3-7-17, Shin-Yokohama, 
Kouhoku-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 104-0031, Japan
˙ Established:  March 20, 1963
˙ Capital:  78.7 million yen (as of March 31, 2009)
˙ President:  Taizo Mori
˙ Employees:  417 (as of March 31, 2009)
˙ Business outline:  Logistics control, packing/crating, warehousing services
Website:   http://ffl.fujifilm.co.jp/  (in Japanese only)FUJIFILM Logistics Co., Ltd.Example 1
Example 2
Example 3
Presentation on CSR activitiesOn the day of the meeting, outside experts were invited to speak on de-
velopments in CSR. Presentations were also held on CSR activities at Fuji  Xerox and FUJIFILM Logistics. The participating companies were provided with self-diagnostic tools on the state of CSR in their respective compa-nies, such as in the working environment, human rights and labor and corporate ethics, and were asked to submit the results of their diagnoses.
FUJIFILM Logistics plans to organize more of these information-
sharing events in the future and to work with partner companies to improve operations based on the findings from self-diagnosis. 
The facilities that were in-
spected in the latest survey showed a satisfactory level of environmental management.
Member of the Environmental Management Division
Field inspectionTarget FacilitiesCheck Items
Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008
Fujifilm Kanagawa Factory  
(Ashigara & Odawara sites) /  Fujifilm Fujinomiya Factory /  Fujifilm Yoshida-Minami Factory /  Fujifilm R&D headquarters  (Kaisei) / Fujifilm Medical  Business Division (Asaka) /  Fujifilm Electronic Image  Business Division (Sendai) /  Fujifilm Head Office / FUJIFILM  Opto Materials / FUJIFILM KyushuWastewater managementEmission &  effluent management, including boilers (including measurement data)•  Waste management
1.  Scheme to prevent 
inappropriate processing
2.  Process for reducing waste output
3.  Status of waste storage, etc.
FUJIFILM RI Pharma / FUJINON /  Fujifilm Techno Products /  Fujifilm Fine Chemicals /  Fujifilm Imaging Solutionー ー•  Waste management
•  Emission & effluent 
management, including boilers (including measurement data)
•  Wastewater 
managementhttp://www.fujiﬁlm.co.jp/corporate/environment/
communication/assembly/index.htmlURLParticipants were able to gain 
a greater understanding of the environmental activities at these factories through the factory tour and panel discus-sions and engaged in lively discussions on the direction of environmental conservation for the entire region. Please visit the following website for further details.
Environmental Dialogue in Yoshida-cho
(in Japanese only)
Data and InformationIndependence Assurance Statement
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 60 61 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009-100100
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)Color Films and Others
12%Others  9%
Color Paper and Chemicals
24%Photoﬁnishing 
Equipment
7%Labs and FDi Services
18%
Electronic Imaging
30%
0500 01,000605.4547.1410.4
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
–42.6–2.4–29.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Medical Systems/
Life Sciences
      29 %Others  1%
FPD Materials
18%Recording Media
7%Ofﬁce and Industry
17%
Graphic Arts
28%
05001,0001,026.11,108.1946.2
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
95.2127.420.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Ofﬁce Products
55%Others  6%
Production 
Services
13%Global Services
9%
Ofﬁce Printers
17%05001,0001,151.01,191.61,077.8
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
61.286.740.7Revenue Net income
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income (loss)
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating 
incomeProportion of revenue by region 
(Consolidated)Proportion of revenue from operating segments
(Consolidated)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 200801,0002,0003,000
0408012084.510.5Fiscal
2008Fiscal
2008Japan
46.6%Imaging
Solutions
16.9%
Document
Solutions
44.2%
Information
Solutions
38.9% The Americas
18.4%Europe
14.4%Asia and
others
20.6%
2,527.32,667.42,782.52,846.82,434.3104.4
37.034.4
FUJIFILM
CorporationFuji Xerox
Co., Ltd.Toyama Chemical
Co., Ltd.FUJIFILM Business
Expert Corporation
Subsidiaries SubsidiariesShared Service Company Operating Companies
SubsidiariesHolding company
100% 100% 75% 66%FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
-100100
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)Color Films and Others
12%Others  9%
Color Paper and Chemicals
24%Photoﬁnishing 
Equipment
7%Labs and FDi Services
18%
Electronic Imaging
30%
0500 01,000605.4547.1410.4
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
–42.6–2.4–29.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Medical Systems/
Life Sciences
      29 %Others  1%
FPD Materials
18%Recording Media
7%Ofﬁce and Industry
17%
Graphic Arts
28%
05001,0001,026.11,108.1946.2
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
95.2127.420.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Ofﬁce Products
55%Others  6%
Production 
Services
13%Global Services
9%
Ofﬁce Printers
17%05001,0001,151.01,191.61,077.8
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
61.286.740.7Revenue Net income
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income (loss)
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating 
incomeProportion of revenue by region 
(Consolidated)Proportion of revenue from operating segments
(Consolidated)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 200801,0002,0003,000
0408012084.510.5Fiscal
2008Fiscal
2008Japan
46.6%Imaging
Solutions
16.9%
Document
Solutions
44.2%
Information
Solutions
38.9% The Americas
18.4%Europe
14.4%Asia and
others
20.6%
2,527.32,667.42,782.52,846.82,434.3104.4
37.034.4
-100100
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)Color Films and Others
12%Others  9%
Color Paper and Chemicals
24%Photoﬁnishing 
Equipment
7%Labs and FDi Services
18%
Electronic Imaging
30%
0500 01,000605.4547.1410.4
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
–42.6–2.4–29.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Medical Systems/
Life Sciences
      29 %Others  1%
FPD Materials
18%Recording Media
7%Ofﬁce and Industry
17%
Graphic Arts
28%
05001,0001,026.11,108.1946.2
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
95.2127.420.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Ofﬁce Products
55%Others  6%
Production 
Services
13%Global Services
9%
Ofﬁce Printers
17%05001,0001,151.01,191.61,077.8
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
61.286.740.7Revenue Net income
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income (loss)
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating 
incomeProportion of revenue by region 
(Consolidated)Proportion of revenue from operating segments
(Consolidated)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 200801,0002,0003,000
0408012084.510.5Fiscal
2008Fiscal
2008Japan
46.6%Imaging
Solutions
16.9%
Document
Solutions
44.2%
Information
Solutions
38.9% The Americas
18.4%Europe
14.4%Asia and
others
20.6%
2,527.32,667.42,782.52,846.82,434.3104.4
37.034.4
-100100
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)Color Films and Others
12%Others  9%
Color Paper and Chemicals
24%Photoﬁnishing 
Equipment
7%Labs and FDi Services
18%
Electronic Imaging
30%
0500 01,000605.4547.1410.4
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
–42.6–2.4–29.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Medical Systems/
Life Sciences
      29 %Others  1%
FPD Materials
18%Recording Media
7%Ofﬁce and Industry
17%
Graphic Arts
28%
05001,0001,026.11,108.1946.2
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
95.2127.420.3
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
Ofﬁce Products
55%Others  6%
Production 
Services
13%Global Services
9%
Ofﬁce Printers
17%05001,0001,151.01,191.61,077.8
2006 2007 2008 (Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
050100
61.286.740.7Revenue Net income
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income (loss)
Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating income Proportion of revenue by business Consolidated revenue Operating 
incomeProportion of revenue by region 
(Consolidated)Proportion of revenue from operating segments
(Consolidated)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
(Fiscal year)(¥ billion)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 200801,0002,0003,000
0408012084.510.5Fiscal
2008Fiscal
2008Japan
46.6%Imaging
Solutions
16.9%
Document
Solutions
44.2%
Information
Solutions
38.9% The Americas
18.4%Europe
14.4%Asia and
others
20.6%
2,527.32,667.42,782.52,846.82,434.3104.4
37.034.4
FinePix F200EXR
Frontier770 LP7700
ASTALIFTSYNAPSE
FCR PROFECT Luxel T-9800CTP HS
DocuPrint
C2110
700 Digital Color PressApeosPort- Ⅲ
C4405PhotobooksThe Fujifilm Group aims to become a global enterprise, trusted by society and customers, by making broad contributions to the advancement 
of culture, science, technology and industry. In addition, we will contribute to the improvement of quality of life and conserve global resourc-es, while making further contributions to society through active business operations in the Imaging Solutions Segment, Information Solutions Segment and Document Solutions Segment.The Fujifilm Group has been expanding its group management to from the FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation since October 2006.
For the Fujifilm Group Companies, please visit: ■ Company Name: FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
■ Representative: Shigetaka Komori
■ Head Office:  Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, 
Tokyo 107-0052, Japan ■ Established: January 20, 1934
■ Capital: ¥40,363 million (as of March 31, 2009)
■ Consolidated Employees: 76,252 (as of March 31, 2009)
■ Consolidated Subsidiaries: 234 (as of March 31, 2009)
Imaging Solutions
The Imaging Solutions Segment handles color films, digital cameras, photo finishing equipment, and color paper, chemicals, services for  
photofinishing.
Information Solutions
The Information Solutions Segment handles medical systems and life sciences, equipment and materials for graphic arts, flat panel display (FPD) 
materials, recording media, optional devices, electronic materials and inkjet materials.
Document Solutions
The Document Solutions Segment handles office copy machines/multifunction devices, printers, production systems and services, paper, consumables, and global services.
We hope you found this Sustainability Report useful. We edited the report 
to make it compact, easy to read, and highly intelligible. Although we had been receiving high evaluation for our past Sustainability Reports, which were voluminous and covered a lot of information, we largely changed our editing style for this report, thinking it necessary to make our Sustainabil-ity Report more useful as a tool to communicate with our stakeholders, including Fujifilm Group employees. Based on this recognition, we col -
lected information about how Fujifilm Group organizations and employees were conducting CSR activities, and wrote and edited the articles on these activities as much as possible from the viewpoint of our stakehold-ers. You can see these articles in “Feature: Enhancing Quality of Life” and “CSR Highlights 2008” sections.
We are always seeking, through trial and error, for ways to make 
our Sustainability Report more useful as a tool to communicate with our stakeholders and would appreciate receiving your honest comments and opinions about this report.Editorial postscripts
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Makio Watanabe
Corporate Vice President,
General Manager, CSR Group,General Affairs Division
Akiko Gosho
Operation Manager, CSR Group,General Affairs DivisionHolding Company        FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
Fujifilm Group
SUPERIA 
PREMIUM
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009 62 63 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009http://www.fujiﬁlmholdings.com/en/business/group/index.htmlURLFujifilm Group Business Overview Fujifilm Group Organization OverviewAbout the illustrations on the front cover and section title pages
The Fujifilm Group is recording and storing cultural and artistic works 
in the form of photos and images to pass on to future generations. 
We do this as part of our social contribution through our business. In 
cooperation with the National Archives of Japan, we are presenting 
some of the works in the Archives on the front cover and section title 
pages of this report.
* To view works held in the Archives, please visit: 
http://www.digital.archives.go.jp/index_e.html
■Please address inquiries on this publication to:
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
CSR Group, General Affairs Division
Tokyo Midtown, 9-7-3 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052
Tel.: +81-3-6271-2065      Fax: +81-3-6271-1190
http://www.fujifilmholdings.com/en/
sustainability/contact/index.htmlNational Archives of Japan
Address: 3-2 Kitanomaru Koen, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
http://www.archives.go.jp/english/index.htmlChart of Plants 2  is one of 10 
illustrations made based on the 
illustrations of animals and plants in 
School and Family Charts  by 
M. Willson & N.A. Kalkins. The 
colorful illustration depicts plants 
belonging to the gourd flower 
family. Fruits including peaches, 
plums, and persimmons are de -
picted at the top of the illustra -
tion while pumpkins, eggplants, 
and gourds are depicted at the 
bottom. The fruits section is used 
on the front cover of this report.Chart of Plants 2
Painted by: Hasegawa Chikuyo
Published by the Ministry of Education in 1873
* Repairing and storing the 
Charts of Plants
The Charts of Plants  were originally designed as scrolls, but the backing cloth had become 
detached from the paper sheets when the Archives obtained them. However, the paper on 
which the illustrations were painted had been kept in good condition, with no big cracks, 
moth holes, and no color fading. To preserve the charts for posterity, the Archives repaired 
them by completely removing the backing cloth from the paper scrolls and putting on new 
backing made from Japanese washi  to strengthen them. After removing the original backing, 
it took much time and labor for the Archives to remove the paste sticking to the edges of the 
paper scrolls, but it finally completed the repair work successfully. The charts are now stored 
flat in boxes, rather than rolled up. 
The National Archives of Japan was established in July 1971 to (1) preserve, provide access 
to, and display historically important public documents and other records received from vari -
ous administrative organizations, and (2) to conduct relevant surveys and research. It subse -
quently became an independent administrative institution in April 2001. Its holdings include 
public documents transferred from multiple governmental agencies in Japan and a collection 
of old Japanese and Chinese documents called the “Cabinet Library,” which have long been 
studied by researchers both inside and outside Japan. At present, the Archives consists 
of three facilities, namely the main office, the Tsukuba Annex (in Kamisawa, Tsukuba City, 
Ibaraki Prefecture), and the Japan Center for Asian Historical Records (in Hirakawa-cho, 
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo). The Archives is now providing information through the Internet, in addi -
tion to providing access to and displaying the works that it holds. 
Date of publication: September 2009
©2009 FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation Sustainability Report 2009