SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT 2021CEO’S 
FOREWORDFrom Covid-19 to COP26, the headlines throughout 2021 were dominated 
by social and environmental issues. It was a year which reinforced the theory 
that the world is changing faster, and to a greater extent, than many of us 
thought possible.
At GAM we believe that investing in sustainable solutions, and being a 
responsible corporate citizen, are key to navigating these changes and 
helping our clients to prosper. We have put sustainability at the heart of our 
business and this report reflects how this has manifested itself throughout a 
turbulent year.
High-conviction products and processes  
We are not afraid to steer our own path when it comes to sustainability and 
last year, we launched market-leading ESG-led strategies including our 
Climate Bond and Sustainable Local Emerging Bond strategies. This plays to 
our strengths of delivering results beyond the ordinary, by thinking beyond 
the obvious. Our Sustainable Climate Bond strategy is one of the first to focus 
on green and sustainability bonds issued by European financials only , and 
thus provides exposure to a wide range of environmental projects from green 
mortgages to renewable energy farms in an increasingly critical sector.
Behind the scenes, we have continued to strengthen resources to ensure 
our teams can embed ESG factors into their investment thinking. This has 
included the roll out of our new ESG dashboard and the adoption of new 
climate risk tools.
We want to lead by example, and 2021 saw GAM commit to become a net-
zero investor by joining the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, be accepted 
as one of the first signatories to the new UK Stewardship Code and continue 
to steer investor collaborations such as Climate Action 100+.
Our holistic approach to responsible investment also includes an 
unshakeable commitment to active ownership, and our portfolio managers 
conducted over 350 company meetings including ESG considerations and 
voted on more than 15,000 resolutions in 2021. Our engagement activity 
helps us to not only understand the changing trends in each sector, but to 
shape them.
Living our values  
We also recognise that sustainability begins at home, and we have worked 
throughout the year to improve the diversity, training standards and the 
environmental impact of our own organisation. In 2021, GAM became a 
committed supporter of the UN Global Compact. There is much still to do but 
we are encouraged by the increasing proportion of women in our investment 
and wealth management teams and the higher levels of training throughout 
our organisation.
Looking ahead we want to more deeply embed sustainability into 
everything we do and strive for a positive impact on the environment and 
society. We steadfastly believe that this will help our clients’ capital to 
prosper in a rapidly changing market.
Yours sincerely
Peter Sanderson  
Group Chief Executive Officer
Peter Sanderson  
Group Chief  
Executive OfficerFOREWORD
CONTENTS06
Introduction
• Overview of GAM and scope of report
• In numbers
• Highlights and goals
09
Chapter 1: Our approach
• Governance of sustainability
• Our strategy
• External standards and recognition  
13
Chapter 2: Our investments
• Embedding ESG and sustainability considerations
• Committing to net zero
16
Chapter 3: Sustainable products
• Developing new products
• Implementing the EU Sustainable Finance  
Disclosure Regulation (SFDR) 
19
Chapter 4: Active ownership
• Voting
• Direct and collaborative engagement 
• Public policy engagement
• Climate stewardship
26
Chapter 5: Corporate sustainability  
• Our people
• Our community
• Our environment
34
Chapter 6: Climate-related disclosures
• Context
• Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
• Net Zero Asset Managers commitment
41
Appendix | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 20216 |
INTRODUCTION
Overview of GAM
GAM is a leading independent, pure-play asset manager. 
The company provides active investment solutions and 
products for institutions, financial intermediaries and private 
investors through three businesses: Investment Management, 
Fund Management Services and Wealth Management. GAM 
employed 605 FTEs in 14 countries with investment centres 
in London, Cambridge, Zurich, Hong Kong, New York, Milan 
and Lugano. The investment managers are supported by an 
extensive global distribution network. Headquartered in Zurich, 
GAM is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange with the symbol 
‘GAM’. The Group has AuM of CHF 100 billion (USD 109.3 
billion) as at 31 December 2021. Further details are available in 
our Annual Report.
Scope of report
This is GAM’s second stand-alone Sustainability Report. It aims 
to highlight the key sustainability challenges and opportunities 
for our business, how we are addressing them and some 
of our achievements in 2021. Our Annual Report includes a 
sustainability summary and outlines our broader strategy, 
major developments in 2021 and corporate governance 
arrangements.
All data in this report relates to the period from 1 January to 
31 December 2021 unless otherwise stated. Where available, 
we include data from 2020. This year we engaged a third-party 
assurance provider to review our data collection processes, 
with the intention of seeking limited assurance on certain key 
performance indicators next year.
Feedback
Sustainability is of growing importance to our clients and all 
our stakeholders, and we are committed to achieving best-in-
class standards for our sustainable investment and operational 
sustainability activities. We welcome feedback on this report 
from all stakeholders.
| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 20217 |
A few numbers that provide a snapshot of 
our sustainability activity in 2021:
1.5°C
GAM committed to be a net-zero investor by 2050 or sooner, 
working with the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative to play our 
part in keeping global warming to 1.5°C or less.
CHF 875 million AuM
invested in sustainable strategies including the two new  
strategies Sustainable Climate Bond and Sustainable Local 
Emerging Bond, launched in 20211.
70%
of our funds have ESG summary reports covering key ESG and 
climate metrics.
First cohort
of signatories accepted by the new UK Stewardship Code in 
2021. We also became signatories to the Japan and Singapore 
stewardship codes.
15,000
resolutions voted on in 2021, with over 350 companies engaged 
on ESG topics by our portfolio managers.
29%
proportion of women in our Investment and Wealth Management 
teams, an increase from 25% in 2020.
1,361.5 hours 
of volunteering activities engaged in by our employees. 
19
charities supported through our corporate sustainability activities.
200%
carbon offsets for operational carbon emissions, our third year as 
a CarbonNeutral® company.
72/100 Inrate 
Corporate Governance zRating – once again making us the best-
ranked financial services provider in Switzerland.IN NUMBERS
1 Sustainable Local Emerging Bond fund, Sustainable Climate Bond, Sustainable 
Emerging Equity, Swiss Sustainable Companies. | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 20218 |
Highlights and goals
Highlights in 2021 Goals for 2022
Commitments•  First TCFD report 
published
•  Joined Net Zero Asset 
Managers initiative
• Became a UN Global 
Compact supporter•  Publish Net Zero Asset 
Managers interim 
targets
Embedding 
ESG•  Rolled out ESG 
dashboard to 100% of 
equity holdings
• Enhanced climate-risk 
analytics•  Continue ESG 
dashboard roll out
•  Develop & implement 
in-house assessment 
for ESG, climate and 
impact 
•  Further develop 
climate-risk tools across 
additional asset classes
Sustainable 
products•  Launched new 
Sustainable Local 
Emerging Bond fund
•  Launched Climate Bond 
fund
•  Introduced sustainability 
exclusions in response 
to client demand
•  Launched ESG 
summary reports for 
70% of funds (by AuM)•  Build our fund range – 
sustainable core macro 
& thematic equity
•  Client reporting – 
introduce extended ESG 
reports
Active 
ownership•  First cohort of 2020 
UK Stewardship Code 
signatories
•  Joined Japan and 
Singapore codes•  Maintain UK 
Stewardship Code 
signatory status
•  Deliver strategic 
engagement plan 
Corporate 
sustainability•  Employee training 
increased from 12 to 22 
hours on average
• 1,361.5 hours employee 
volunteering
• MSCI ESG score 
improved from 5.1 to 5.4• Increase renewable 
energy use to 100%
• Expand reporting on 
equal pay analysis
• All positions to consider 
Inclusivity candidates 
• Dedicated coaching for 
all eligible returners 
CHAPTER 1: 
OUR APPROACH| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202110 |
CHAPTER 1: OUR APPROACH
GAM’s purpose is to protect and enhance our clients’ financial future. By attracting 
and empowering the brightest minds to think beyond the obvious, we strive to provide 
investment leadership, innovation and a positive impact on society and the environment.
Governance of sustainability
Sustainability starts at the top with the GAM Holding AG Board 
holding overall responsibility for our sustainability strategy. 
Our Sustainability Committee, chaired by our Global Head of 
Sustainable and Impact Investment, oversees our strategy. The 
Sustainability Committee reports to the full Board and our Group 
Management Board on a quarterly basis.
The Sustainability Committee is one of ten key group oversight 
committees, and its terms of reference were refreshed in 
2021, together with the introduction of two sub-committees, 
our Responsible Investment and Sustainable Operations 
committees, to focus on monitoring and continually improving 
our ESG integration, active ownership and operational 
sustainability.
Sustainability oversight is also integrated within the relevant 
functions. This includes the Investment Management Oversight 
Committee providing oversight over the performance of 
investment teams as well as key risks and controls relating to the Investment function, the Product Strategy Committee, which 
authorises development of new products and strategies and 
reviews existing products, and the Risk Oversight Committee, 
which oversees operation of the risk management framework 
(see Figure 1).
We also have a nominated non-executive director responsible 
for championing sustainability at the Board level and a separate 
Board member with responsibility for climate risk. Sustainability 
and climate risks are overseen at the Board Risk Committee. 
Our TCFD (Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures) 
disclosure (see Chapter 6) contains further details of our 
governance structure specifically in relation to the management 
of climate risk. Our governance aims to put sustainability 
at the heart of our business, and keep it 
there on a daily basis.
Katia Coudray
Independent Non-Executive Director
Figure 1: Our governance structure for sustainability
Global Management Committee Board CommitteeBoard of Directors
Audit Committee
(Board level committees TBC)Group Management Board
(GMB) Risk Committee 
Group Investment 
Management Oversight 
Committee
(GIMOC)Sustainability 
Committee 
Chair – Global Head of 
Sustainable & Impact InvestingProduct Strategy 
Committee 
(PSC)
Sustainability 
Operating Committee
Chair – Group COOResponsible Investment 
Committee
Chair – Global Head of 
Sustainable & Impact InvestingGroup Risk 
Oversight Committee
(RiOC)
Procurement /
FacilitiesInvestment 
ManagementGovernance and 
Responsible InvestmentClimate Change 
Working Group
Supporting Cross-functional Committee
 |Source: GAM.Focus on transparency
We believe transparency is core to good governance and 
is one of our three strategic pillars. In 2021, we published 
our first Sustainability Report and stewardship reports in line 
with both the UK and Japan stewardship codes. This year, 
our Sustainability Report serves as our Communication on 
Progress under the UN Global Compact and we are additionally 
publishing our first TCFD report and initial update on our 
commitments under the Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) 
initiative; our fuller NZAM targets will be disclosed in the second 
quarter of this year.
All of our responsible investment-related policies were refreshed 
and updated in 2021 and can be found online .
Alongside such annual firm-level reporting, we introduced our 
ESG Summary Report – comprising ESG rating and carbon 
intensity metrics – in 2021 for 70% of our funds by AuM. In 2022, 
we will be introducing extended ESG reports and improving 
report coverage where possible depending on data availability. 
Linking to incentives
Sustainability objectives for 2021 form part of the individual 
goals assessment within the Group Management Board 
scorecard. For 2022, the GAM Compensation Committee has 
agreed that sustainability should form a more explicit element 
of the strategic annual bonus scorecard component directly 
driving all GMB members’ annual remuneration. The Committee 
will continue to review its approach to set clear ESG targets for 
the GMB through the course of 2022.
ESG integration is an increasingly important feature of our 
investment process as ESG factors increasingly have a material 
impact on the performance of companies.
Our strategy
At GAM, we have long appreciated how powerful environmental 
and social megatrends – from climate change to conscious 
consumerism, from diversity to digitalisation – are reshaping the 
global economy, creating both risk and opportunity for investors.
That is why we steadfastly believe that understanding ESG 
issues related to our portfolio, and acting on them where we can, 
is integral to our ability to deliver better returns for our clients 
and better outcomes for the wider world. We strive for a positive 
impact on the environment and society, in our investments and 
operations, and take a holistic and detailed approach.
| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202112 |
We strive for a positive impact across four core pillars:
•  Embedding ESG:  We aim to embed ESG risks, 
opportunities and impacts in our investment analysis and 
decision-making using leading data, tools and insight. 
•  Active stewardship:  We seek to use our influence through 
voting and engagement to drive positive change at a 
company level, and in the broader market. 
2 The latest available PRI Assessment Report was based on year-end 2019.Figure 2: Our holistic approach to sustainability
We aim to embed ESG risks,
opportunities and impacts
in our investment analysis
and decision-making using
leading data, tools and insight. 
We seek to use our influence
through voting and engagement
to drive positive change at
a company level, and in the
broader market.We are committed to developing 
products to help our clients 
successfully navigate, benefit 
from and drive the transition to 
a more sustainable and lower 
carbon economy.
We deliver our purpose, through
a focus on the diversity of our
people, and striving for a positive
impact on society and the
environment.Embedding ESGSustainable products
and solutions
High corporate
standardsActive stewardship
 |Source: GAM.•  Sustainable products and solutions:  We are committed to 
developing products to help our clients successfully navigate, 
benefit from and drive the transition to a more sustainable and 
lower carbon economy. 
•  High corporate standards:  We deliver our purpose, through 
a focus on the diversity of our people, and striving for a 
positive impact on society and the environment.
Our latest assessment from the PRI awarded our responsible 
investment strategy and governance the highest-possible  
A+ ranking 2. 
External standards and recognition 
As we strive to improve our sustainable investment and 
corporate practices, we have received recognition in external 
ratings, assessments andawards. These ratings are welcome 
recognition of our efforts, can be important for our stakeholders 
and can play a role in driving the adoption of good practice in 
the market. 
The recognition we received in 2021 includes:
• Inrate Corporate Governance zRating:  GAM Holding is once 
again the best-ranked financial services provider in Switzerland, 
ranking 15th overall out of a total of 171 companies listed in 
Switzerland, with 72 out of 100 possible points.
• MSCI rating:  At the end of 2020 we were graded BBB, during 
2021 we improved our score from a weighted-average key 
issue score of 5.1 to 5.4.
• B Corp:  In our 2019 Annual Report we stated our goal to 
achieve B Corp accreditation by 2022, and reiterated our 
intention to continue to explore B Corp certification in our 
2020 Annual Report. This year, we have continued to engage 
with B Corp, completing the Preliminary & Final Risk Review 
and the Risk Screen Review, however, we note that they 
have introduced a moratorium on submissions from financial 
sector companies, while sector-specific frameworks and 
requirements for financial services are developed. We are, 
however, continuing to engage in the B Corp process. • Citywire Gender Diversity Awards:  GAM was the winner of 
the ‘Best AuM Split’ category for asset managers with 50–100 
managers recognising fund groups that have a greater parity 
in the proportion of assets managed by women and men.
•  Citywire Alpha Female Report 2021:  GAM’s Jian Shi Cortesi, 
Investment Director for China and Asia growth equities, 
was selected for Citywire’s list of the 30 most consistently 
best performing female managers. The list is compiled from 
Citywire’s database of 1932 female fund managers based on 
managers’ ratings consistency over the last five years. This 
is the fourth year that Jian has featured in the Citywire Alpha 
Female Top 30 list, having also been included in 2017, 2019 
and 2020.
• Investment Week Women in Investment Awards:  Jian 
Shi Cortesi, Investment Director for China and Asia growth 
equities, was chosen as the winner in both the ‘Fund 
Manager of the Year (large firms)’ and ‘International 
Investment Woman of the Year’ categories. The Women in 
Investment Awards honour the inspiring achievements of 
women across all parts of the UK investment industry with a 
specific international category.
• UK 2020 Stewardship Code:  We met the standards to 
become one of first signatories to the new, more extensive 
Stewardship Code.CHAPTER 2: 
OUR 
INVESTMENTS| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202114 |
CHAPTER 2: OUR INVESTMENTS
Embedding ESG and sustainability 
considerations
At GAM we have nearly 40 years of investment management 
experience. We know that unless we consider all elements of 
a potential investment – including its management of relevant 
ESG issues – then we cannot fully understand the potential 
risks, opportunities and value of that entity. 
However, that is easier said than done. 
Sustainable investing is evolving, and rapidly becoming more 
nuanced and complex across different asset classes, themes, 
regulatory environments and products. At GAM we aim to seek 
out opportunities that may not be unearthed by the use of 
simple third-party ratings or as defined by broad taxonomies. 
We aim not only to understand the changing nature of the 
global economy but to help shape it, as an active steward of our 
clients’ capital.
Our sustainable investment framework
Strong governance &
policy framework
Embedding ESG
Risk oversight and
transparency
Industry 
collaborationActive stewardship
 |Source: GAM.Our sustainable investment framework outlines our approach:
•  Strong governance & policy framework:  A robust policy 
framework with clear governance and commitment from our 
CEO, Board and senior leadership. 
• Embedding ESG at the portfolio level:  ESG expertise, data, 
tools and insight to manage risks and drive alpha. Regular 
dialogue with companies supports our analysis. 
• Active stewardship:  Proactive voting and engagement to 
drive positive change.
• Risk oversight and transparency:  Quarterly investment risk 
meetings include an ESG portfolio review, flagging companies 
with poor ESG or carbon scores or controversies. The Global 
Responsible Investment (GRI) team undertakes periodic ESG 
portfolio reviews. 
• Industry collaboration to improve policy and practices:  
Actively leading and participating in key industry initiatives 
and organisations.
Key to this challenge in 2021 has been the roll-out of our 
proprietary ESG dashboard. This uses multiple ESG data 
points and in-house voting to identify specific ESG risks and 
opportunities including any controversies an investment might 
be associated with. Currently, the dashboard has been rolled 
out to all equity investments and almost a third of fixed income 
credit strategies. We anticipate a roll-out to 70% of fixed income 
credit in the first quarter of 2022 following a further stage of 
our platform integration project. We have stand-alone tools 
covering sovereign fixed income strategies. We are developing 
a proprietary ESG, climate and impact model that we will be 
rolling out next year. We will continue to work to further expand 
our ESG data integration across all investment teams in the 
most efficient and effective way.Tools like our ESG dashboard help us bring 
together the best expertise, data and insight 
in a way that help our high-conviction fund 
managers to better manage risk and drive 
alpha at the portfolio level.
Greg Clerkson
Head of Discretionary Investment Management| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202115 |
Figure 3: Our ESG dashboard
 |Source: GAM.
We specialise in active investing, and therefore the specific 
approach to ESG integration used by each investment strategy 
will depend on the investment objectives, philosophy, asset 
class and investment timeframe. The GRI team works together 
with investment managers to support and improve our 
integration approach within the investment strategies.
Case study: A novel approach to ESG in 
sovereign debt
A proprietary ‘Crisis Cycle Filter’ framework forms a pivotal and 
unique element of our local emerging bond strategy and, more 
specifically, it is one of the tools we use to incorporate ESG 
factors into our investment process.
In the past, ESG risks might not have been fully reflected 
in market prices, and investors might have been able to 
outperform by simply allocating capital towards stronger 
ESG credits. As ESG risks become better understood by the 
market – and therefore more efficiently priced – outperformance 
becomes harder to achieve. The challenge for investors is 
to identify those opportunities where ESG risks are still mis-
priced. In our view, this is most likely to occur when ESG factors 
(especially governance) and macroeconomic factors interact. 
We developed our proprietary ‘Crisis Cycle Filter’ (CCF) to 
capture this interaction. It focusses on nine macroeconomic 
variables that tend to deteriorate when governance is poor, 
and which we consider to be the most reliable early signs 
of an impending financial crisis. In our view, this is superior 
to looking at traditional ESG metrics in isolation, because 
changes in these measures tend to lag financial markets. As 
an example, poor governance contributed significantly to both 
the Russian crisis in 2014 and the Turkey crisis from 2016 to 
2018. In both cases, however, ESG measures deteriorated well 
after the currencies weakened. A fundamental part of the Sustainable Local Emerging Bond 
fund’s (LEBF) ESG philosophy, however, is that we need to 
take into account ESG factors alongside their impact on future 
returns. If ESG factors become efficiently priced by markets and 
the alpha to be gained from these factors declines, a purely 
returns-led ESG strategy will no longer allocate capital towards 
the stronger ESG credits. In the Sustainable LEBF we aim to 
allocate towards countries with stronger ESG characteristics. 
Our preferred approach is to use an independent ESG 
benchmark. The index adjusts the weights of the countries 
in a traditional index based on their ESG scores, ensuring 
an allocation of capital away from ESG countries with poorer 
ESG scores and a tilt towards those with higher scores. 
Active positions around this benchmark use our standard 
ESG-integrated investment process aimed at achieving 
outperformance.
Building knowledge
Training and knowledge sharing are key to continuous 
improvement, and are particularly important in an area as 
dynamic as sustainability. We support external qualifications 
such as the CFA Certificate in ESG Investing and are 
participating in the pilot programme for the new CFA 
Certificate in Climate and Investing due for release in 2022. We 
also promote internal knowledge sharing, dedicated learning 
materials and micro-seminars. Our Global Head of Sustainable 
and Impact Investment ran a number of all employee micro-
seminars in 2021 on the sustainable investment landscape, 
stewardship, climate change, COP26, green bonds and the 
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation.
In 2021, an average of 4.9 hours of ESG-related training was 
completed per employee. 
Committing to net zero
In July 2021, we joined the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, 
an international group of asset managers committed to 
supporting the goal of net-zero greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2050 or sooner. We are working as part of the IIGCC 
Paris Aligned Investment Initiative to develop appropriate 
methodologies. We were part of the group that developed the 
Net Zero Investment Framework published in March 2021. 
We plan to publish our net-zero interim targets in the second 
quarter of 2022.
We seek to integrate relevant transition and physical climate-
related risks and opportunities into our investment decision-
making. We use climate data from external sources, as well as 
security level analysis and engagement, to identify significant 
areas of risk. This year we expanded our provision of climate 
data, which now includes MSCI (climate data and climate 
value at risk (VaR) analysis under multiple scenarios), CDP 
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and TPI (Transition 
Pathway Initiative) to assess the quality and resilience of 
a company’s strategy to address climate-related risks and 
opportunities, in addition to our own engagement. CHAPTER 3: 
SUSTAINABLE 
PRODUCTS| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202117 |
CHAPTER 3: SUSTAINABLE 
PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS
Developing new products
We are committed to developing sustainable products and 
solutions  that will help our clients successfully navigate, benefit 
from and drive the transition to a more sustainable and lower 
carbon economy. 
We now have CHF 875 million AuM in sustainable strategies 
including the Sustainable Local Emerging Bond, Sustainable 
Climate Bond, Sustainable Emerging Equity and Swiss 
Sustainable Companies strategies.
Two of our major launches in 2021 were of sustainability-related 
products:
Sustainable Local Emerging Bond:  In February, in close 
partnership with a leading pension fund for sustainable 
investments in Austria, we developed a Sustainable Local 
Emerging Bond fund as the first in a new range of sustainability-
focused strategies. The strategy combines a positive tilt 
towards sovereigns with higher ESG scores, as defined by its 
benchmark, the JP Morgan ESG GBI-EM GD Index, with the 
team’s ‘Crisis Cycle Filter’ used for active allocation within the 
index tilts. This fund seeks to invest in line with the requirements 
of Article 8 of the EU SFDR (see next section).
Sustainable Climate Bond:  Our new Sustainable Climate Bond 
strategy is one of the first to focus on green and sustainability 
bonds issued by European financials. The strategy adopts 
an active, bottom-up, high-conviction approach, investing 
in green projects across the economy from green energy to 
green mortgage products. The bond market for climate change 
solutions is worth over USD100 trillion and mobilising capital is 
key for a green transition. 
The strategy uses third-party environmental data specialists 
(Carbone 4) to evaluate the environmental impact and externally 
validate our selection in the Climate Bond fund’s investment 
process (see case study). As part of the product launch we also 
joined the not-for-profit Climate Bonds Initiative to help drive 
forward more fixed income investments in a climate resilient 
economy. This fund seeks to invest in line with the requirements 
of Article 9 of the EU SFDR.Implementing the EU Sustainable Finance 
Disclosure Regulation (SFDR)  
SFDR is part of the EU’s wider Sustainable Finance Framework 
and introduces new sustainability disclosure obligations for 
manufacturers of financial products. One of the most tangible 
changes is the classification of funds into three categories 
– so called ‘Article 6’, ‘Article 8’ and ‘Article 9’ funds. While 
funds are required to take into account sustainability risk 
in the decision making process, broadly, Article 6 funds 
do not have binding sustainability considerations, Article 8 
funds promote environmental or social characteristics, or a 
combination of those characteristics, provided the companies 
in which investments are made follow good governance 
practices. Article 9 funds are those funds that have sustainable 
investment as their objective. 
In response to client demand, we introduced our 
Sustainability Exclusion Policy  to a subset of our equity and 
corporate credit funds to support alignment with requirements 
of an ‘Article 8’ fund. This policy covers involvement at specific 
thresholds of thermal coal extraction and power generation, 
tobacco production and retail and nuclear weapons, as well as 
civilian and conventional weapons, oil sands and UN Global 
Compact breaches. Over three quarters of our equity funds 
and over 90% of our corporate credit funds by AuM now apply 
these exclusions. Exclusions are also applied to selected 
funds across other asset classes.The global economy is changing and 
we are committed to developing those 
products and solutions that help our 
clients navigate and drive the powerful 
environmental and social transitions that 
will, and need to, shape our world. 
Stephanie Maier
Global Head Sustainable and Impact Investment| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202118 |
BRINGING IMPACT ACCURACY TO CLIMATE 
BONDS
Our Sustainable Climate Bond strategy, launched in August 
2021, aligns with our concerted aim to contribute to a 
net-zero future. It offers investment in green bonds that 
contribute to lowering carbon emissions while providing 
attractive spreads, and is expected to deliver close to triple 
the yield of other investment-grade bonds. 
Two factors distinguish our strategy from similar offerings 
in the marketplace. First, we have elected to focus on 
European financials from an issuer perspective. European 
banks dominate the European corporate financing 
landscape, and therefore have a pivotal role in driving 
sustainable growth, both generally and in terms of 
environmental transition. The top 35 banks provided close 
to USD 3 trillion of funding to the energy sector between 
2016 and 2019, reflecting the significant impact potential 
from the banking sector. 
Second, we recognise that issuers typically report their 
environmental KPIs using a wide range of divergent 
methodologies or metrics, and so have taken the additional 
step of engaging a third-party provider – Carbone 4, 
a leading consulting firm specialising in low-carbon 
strategy and adaptation to climate change – to provide an 
independent view on the KPIs reported at an aggregate 
level for the fund and at the detailed green bond level. This 
ensures GAM has a robust, credible and unbiased account 
of our strategy’s positive impact.The introduction of SFDR is changing the 
product landscape. We listen closely to 
clients to ensure our product range meets 
their requirements.
Kaspar Boehni
Head of Global Product & Fund Development
At the end of the year, we had CHF 12 billion in funds 
classified as Article 8 or Article 9.
Improving disclosure  
Transparency is key for us and our clients. This is why we have 
introduced ESG summary reports comprising ESG rating and 
carbon intensity metrics for 70% of our funds by AuM. This is 
intended to help our clients better understand the ESG profile of 
their funds. 
Looking ahead  
In 2022, we plan to continue to improve and increase our 
range of sustainability funds, helping our clients invest smartly 
in a net-zero economy. This is likely to include the launch of 
a sustainable core macro strategy, which will aim to achieve 
long-term capital growth by evolving an in-house ESG scoring 
system for commodities and marrying this with a quantitative, 
macroeconomic focus, and a range of sustainable thematic 
equity funds. In 2022, we will be introducing extended ESG 
reports and improving report coverage where possible 
depending on data availability. CHAPTER 4: 
ACTIVE 
OWNERSHIP| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202120 |
CHAPTER 4: ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Stewardship is a core element of the investment process, and 
critical in shaping the way we allocate, manage and oversee 
capital. By engaging, we not only gain valuable insights into 
corporate business models or management practices, we 
can also use our influence to encourage them to focus on 
long-term, sustainable value creation. We engage as both 
shareholders and bondholders.
In 2021, we were particularly proud to be accepted as one of 
the first signatories to the updated UK Stewardship Code and 
committed to support the stewardship principles outlined in 
Japan’s Stewardship Code and the Singapore Stewardship 
Principles for Responsible Investors. 
We exercise our stewardship in three ways: voting, direct and 
collaborative engagements and public policy engagement.
Voting 
Voting is a fundamental part of our active ownership approach, 
and our Corporate Governance and Voting Principles  outline 
our corporate governance expectations for companies, our 
approach on key voting issues and our procedures. We aim to 
exercise our voting rights for all shares for which we have voting 
authority and make voting decisions for all our funds publicly 
available on a monthly rolling basis on our website. 
In 2021, we voted at a total of 1,322 meetings (2020: 1,136). 
This represented 99.2% of the meetings at which we could 
vote, compared to 97.7% in 2020. We voted on 15,125 unique 
resolutions in 2021, of which 12.0% were votes against 
management (8.1% in 2020). We supported 73.6% of the 401 
shareholder resolutions we voted on in 2021 (2020: 64.1%). Shareholder meetings by geography
0 100 200 300 400 500Other emerging marketsJapanUnited KingdomAsia Pacific ex JapanNorth AmericaContinental Europe
2020 2021
 |Source: GAM.
 
Votes against management by category
0 20 40 60 80 100Anti-takeover relatedBoard- relatedCapital managementM&A/reorganisationsPreferred /bondholder meetingsRemunerationRoutine items /miscellaneousShareholder resolution
Support Against%
 |Source: GAM.As a leading asset manager, we 
recognise that we have the power and 
the responsibility to positively improve 
corporate behaviour on issues from 
deforestation to diversity.
Stephanie Maier
Global Head Sustainable and Impact Investment| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202121 |
Votes on shareholder resolution
0 20 40 60 80 100SR - Board RelatedSR - EnvironmentSR - Other governance mattersSR - Political contributions and lobbyingSR - RemunerationSR - Social
Support Against%
Abstain Withhold
 |Source: GAM.
Direct and collaborative engagement 
We engage with companies regularly as part of our investment 
process. Our investment teams conducted more than 1,000 
company engagement meetings in 2021. This includes  
one-to-one and group meetings. In 2021, approximately 
36% of these meetings covered environmental, social and 
governance themes. 
| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202122 |
Case study: Catalysing better governance at 
SMC Corporation (Japan)
In 2019, as part of our portfolio ESG reviews, we noted that 
SMC Corporation stood out in the portfolio for having critical 
and ingrained corporate governance issues. 
Governance concerns: 
The Board composition, for a company of this size with 
international exposure, fell below market standards. With the 
appointment of Yoshiki Takada as Representative Director, there 
were 11 directors on the Board. Our concerns were as follows: 
•  Lack of independence:  Only two directors are independent 
while all the others are executives. Yoshiki Takada’s 
appointment to succeed his father, the Chairman of the 
Group, further reduced independence levels (18%). 
• Lack of diversity:  The Board is only comprised of male 
directors.
•  Long-standing directors:  The average tenure on the Board 
is 17 years; six directors have tenures of over 12 years. While 
we recognise the benefits of experience and familiarity with 
the business, we have concerns over long-tenured directors’ 
ability to remain independent, impartial and objective. 
•  Non-compliance with the Corporate Governance Code:  
Absence of Nomination Committee and no performance-
based reward for executives. 
• Lack of experience of corporate auditors:  The two 
corporate auditors, who oversee the work of the auditor, are 
not accountants and therefore do not match the requirement 
of having a “considerable level of knowledge about finance 
and accounting” and breach the Corporate Governance 
(CG) Code. 
Engagement activity: 
On 4 June 2020, GAM’s Investment team engaged with SMC 
to share these concerns and communicate our expectations in 
having a more diverse and independent Board. 
At this meeting, the company confirmed that it would look to 
comply with the CG code and that it had already been making 
improvements, such as introducing a stock compensation plan 
in May and establishing a majority independent Nomination 
and Compensation Committee in April. We also noted the 
refreshment of the Board composition, which decreased in size, 
leading to a slight increase in independence and a reduction in 
the average age of its members. 
Still, the independence of the Board remained too low (20%), 
with only two independent directors,  and the lack of diversity 
was still a critical concern. As a result, we decided to vote 
against the appointment of President Katsunori Maruyama, in 
line with our voting guidelines on diversity and independence. 
At a Group call in February 2021, SMC acknowledged receiving 
numerous objections to its directors’ appointments, with investors 
pointing out the low percentage of independent directors and 
women on the Board. The company confirmed that investors can 
expect SMC to address these concerns at the next AGM. During an engagement meeting we had with SMC in June 
2021, we re-iterated the importance of having sufficient 
independence and diversity on the Board and followed up 
on the commitments made by SMC. The company confirmed 
that they would be appointing a new female director at the 
2021 AGM and that they were going to appoint additional 
independent directors. At the 2021 AGM, we acknowledged 
this improvement by supporting the re-election of all directors. 
Outcomes: 
During our engagement over the last two years, the company:
•  Increased its Board independence from 17% to 40% 
•  Refreshed its Board significantly with younger and more 
diverse members: one female director appointed, average 
age of directors decreased by 10 years (69 to 59 years) and 
average tenure reduced from 17 years to four years 
•  Created a majority independent Nomination and 
Compensation Committee
• Strengthened its compliance with the Japanese Corporate 
Governance Code
•  Saw one of the two corporate auditors become a certified 
accountant 
•  Saw its MSCI ESG rating go from CCC to BB 
 
MSCI ESG rating history
CCC CCC CCCBBB
Feb 18 Mar 19 Feb 20 Sep 20 Oct 21AAA
AA
BBB
BB
B
CCC
 |Source: MSCI as at December 2021.
Looking forward
We are pleased with the progress and improvements in SMC’s 
governance, which have met our expectations. We welcomed 
the company’s responsiveness to investor feedback. There 
are other areas we are continuing to engage on with SMC, 
including climate reporting and the development of a credible 
net-zero strategy and targets. | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202123 |
Collaborative engagements
We collaborate with like-minded investors to improve the 
overall standards of a particular market or sector, or to amplify 
our voice. Some of these collaborations in 2021 included:
•  Climate Action 100+:  We sit on the Steering Committee of 
Climate Action 100+, the world’s largest and most influential 
shareholder engagement which urges the biggest corporate 
greenhouse gas emitters to take necessary action on climate 
change. The collaboration has already encouraged 52% of 
the 160 highest-emitting companies in the world to commit 
to net zero by 2050 and is monitoring progress through its 
detailed net-zero company benchmark. In 2021, we joined 
Climate Action 100+ investor engagement groups for five 
companies.
•  Net-zero banking:  We supported the publication of 
‘Investor Expectations for the banking sector’  with the 
IIGCC. The banking sector plays a critical role in aligning 
the real economy with the Paris Agreement and this detailed 
document sets out how banks must improve if we are to build 
a net-zero economy. 
•  Science-based targets:  We participated in the CDP 2021 
Science-Based Targets Campaign in September and joined 
more than 200 investors in asking high emitting companies to 
set science-based emissions reduction targets. 
•  Access to medicine:  We support the Access to 
Medicine Index, which is driving 20 of the world’s largest 
pharmaceutical companies to provide millions of people in 
developing nations with affordable medicine. Our work in this 
area in 2021 included co-signing the global investor statement 
in support of an effective, fair and equitable global response 
to COVID-19.
•  Access to nutrition:  We support the Global Access to 
Nutrition Index, which encourages the world’s largest 
food and beverage makers to better address obesity and 
undernutrition issues related to their products.
•  Credit risk:  GAM signed a commitment alongside 170 other 
investors to incorporate ESG factors into credit ratings and 
analysis in a systematic and transparent way.
Public policy engagement
Part of our active ownership approach is to engage openly 
with regulators and policymakers to advocate policies that we 
believe can help build the stable and well-governed social and 
environmental systems in which our investments can thrive. 
This was especially important in 2021, during the build-up to the 
crucial COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, which was attended  
by our Global Head of Sustainable and Impact Investment.
We tend to engage on policy both directly and through the PRI 
Global Policy Reference Group, the Institutional Investor Group 
on Climate Change and the UK’s Investment Association. In 
2021 this activity included:
•  Signing a global investor statement calling for governments 
to significantly strengthen their plans to cut carbon emissions 
in the next decade and to bring in detailed targets for net-zero 
emissions by 2050 or sooner.•  Providing oral evidence at the House of Commons in the UK 
on how to engage the public and business in the COP26 
climate summit. A video of the event is available here .
•  Welcoming the European Commission’s proposal for a new 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. This directive 
revises the Non-Financial Reporting Directive and its aim is to 
elevate sustainability information to the same level as financial 
information to further increase transparency.
•  Signing the global investor statement in support of an 
effective, fair and global response to COVID-19 – as detailed 
in the box below.
FAIRER FINANCE IN THE FIGHT AGAINST 
COVID-19
While many advanced economies are already distributing 
booster shots to their populations, we believe we must not 
lose sight of the goal of vaccine procurement for everyone, 
everywhere. A failure to offer global vaccine coverage is 
dangerous to both public health and the global economy. 
Aside from the catastrophic loss of life, the global 
economy stands to lose as much as USD 9.2 trillion if 
governments fail to ensure developing economies gain 
equitable access to vaccines. These potential losses 
dwarf the funding needed for an effective, fair and global 
international response. 
That is why in February 2021, GAM signed the global 
investor statement in support of an effective, fair and 
global response to COVID-19. The statement calls for 
full capitalisation of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) 
Accelerator, a partnership dedicated to developing, 
producing and ensuring equitable access to tools and a 
coordinated global approach to distribution.
When the statement was published, more than three 
quarters of all vaccines had been administered in just 
10 countries, while a further 130 countries, home to 2.5 
billion people, were yet to administer a single dose. In 
the subsequent months, GAM and other signatories have 
made significant progress against the issues covered in 
the statement.
First, engagements with investee healthcare companies 
have helped promote industry action supporting the ACT 
Accelerator, from cross-industry partnerships to voluntary 
licensing agreements.
Second, signatories have also encouraged world leaders 
to finance the ACT -Accelerator in full, and deploy adequate 
funding to ensure fair and equitable access to COVID-19 
tools globally.
Third, GAM and other investors continue to explore 
innovative finance mechanisms to support the response. 
This includes vaccine bonds, which played a role in 
accelerating the availability of critical funding for COVAX, 
the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access initiative. 
There is still much work to be done, but finance has 
an important role to play in our battle to overcome this 
pandemic.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202124 |
Climate stewardship 
Climate change poses a systemic risk to the global economy, 
environment and society, and presents specific risks and 
opportunities at an asset level. Given the speed and scale of the 
transition that is required to keep within the 1.5°C goal of the 
Paris Agreement, climate change is a key engagement theme. 
We encourage companies to implement a strong governance 
framework which: clearly articulates the Board’s accountability 
and oversight of climate change risk; acts to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain, consistent 
with the Paris Agreement’s goal of net-zero emissions by 2050; 
and provides enhanced corporate disclosure in line with the 
final TCFD recommendations. We engage directly and as part of 
collaborative initiatives such as those outlined previously. 
In July, we supported IIGCC’s call for consistency on ‘corporate 
net-zero alignment plans’ and director accountability on climate 
targets. As investors are increasingly asking for transparency 
and accountability on companies’ climate commitments 
and transition plans, we have seen a rise in climate-related 
proposals submitted by both management and shareholders.
In our voting policy, we expect companies to identify and report 
material and business-specific risks, including climate-related 
risks. We will consider voting against relevant directors where 
we consider there are material failings in risk oversight of 
environmental and social issues, including climate change. We 
will consider voting against the Board Chair or other responsible 
directors of companies in high-impact sectors that do not take 
proactive measures to address and disclose climate-related 
risks. When voting on climate policy resolutions submitted by 
management, we will review each proposal individually. 
In 2021, a few companies asked for shareholder approval of 
their climate plan. We expect this number to increase as more 
companies have committed to do the same next year. As a 
member of the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, we expect 
companies seeking shareholder support on their climate 
strategy to have evidence of clear and credible commitment to 
net zero, with ambitious, broad and credible targets. 
When it comes to resolutions submitted by shareholders, we 
are generally supportive of resolutions which align with this 
same principle and encourage a company to have ambitious 
climate plans. However, we will be cautious of not supporting 
resolutions which are overly prescriptive in how the business 
should conduct its operations. 
In 2021, we voted on 28 resolutions relating to climate change 
at 18 companies. We supported over 70% of these. Case study: BP (UK)
Following the appointment of a new CEO, BP announced its 
ambition to be net-zero by 2050 and published a transition 
plan in February 2021. We welcomed this announcement, 
and engaged to better understand their strategy and ensure 
that robust targets are in place. 
We met with BP three times over the course of the year to 
communicate our expectations. 
Our expectations included:
•  Better understanding their climate change strategy and 
commitment to net zero
•  Meeting investors’ expectations set out in the Climate 
Action 100+ benchmark
• Developing a clear strategy around BP’s stake in Rosneft
•  Encouraging the adoption of science-based targets
We voted in support of a shareholder resolution on climate 
targets at the 2021 AGM. We also became a signatory of 
a collaborative engagement letter sent by CDP to BP to 
support the adoption of science-based targets. 
In 2021, BP scored strongly on the Climate Action 100+ 
company benchmark, reflecting the strong targets and 
ambitions it had implemented with its net-zero strategy. 
We will continue to engage with the company to track 
their progress against our expectations and to hold them 
accountable to the targets they have set.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202125 |
Our collaborations 
We are committed to investing in a way that supports stable and well-governed social and environmental systems. But we 
cannot do this alone. Here are some of the industry bodies, standards and organisations we support and/or collaborate with to 
improve sustainability practices across the market.
Access to Medicine Supporter since Q1 2018
Health Care Analyst active participant in initiative
Access to Nutrition Supporter since Q1 2018
ACGA  Member since Q4 2020
CDP Investor Signatory since Q1 2021 and participated in investor engagement on Science-based Targets. 
Climate Action 100+Signatory Q1 2018 
Head of Sustainable and Impact Investing is a member of the Global Steering Committee
ESG Analyst member of the IIGCC CA100+ Resolution Working Group
Part of investor engagement group for 5 focus companies
Climate Bond InitiativePartner since Q3 21
Active involvement from Investment Manager running our Climate Bond Fund and we were also invited by 
the CBI to join their Transitions Investors Advisory Council to develop guidance on credible transitions for 
both the use of proceeds and entity-level assessment for green bonds.
Emerging Market Investor AllianceMember since Q4 2021 
4 EM Investment Managers active participants in working groups
EUROSIF Member Q4 2020
Human Rights Investor Alliance Member Q2 2021
ICGN Member since Q3 2020
IIGCCHead of Sustainable and Impact Investing is the Co-Chair of the Corporate Programme,
ESG Analyst member of Paris-Aligned Investing Initiative,
ESG Analyst member of the Net Zero Stewardship & Corporate Policy Programme,
Member of the Working Group which developed Net Zero Toolkit, 
Investment AssociationMember Q1 2002
Member of Sustainable and Responsible Investment Committee
Member of Fixed Income Stewardship Working Group
Japan Stewardship CodeSignatory Q2 2021
Report against principles 
Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative Signatory Q1 2019
Net Zero Asset Managers initiative Signatory Q3 2021
UN PRISignatory since Q4 2014
Head of Sustainable and Impact Investing is a member of Global Policy Reference Group
Singapore Stewardship Code Signatory Q2 2021
SSF (Swiss Sustainable Finance) Member since Q4 2019
TCFDSupporter Q1 2021
Releasing first report in 2022
Transition Pathway Initiative Formal support since Q4 2021 and use data to support integration and analysis
2020 UK Stewardship Code Signatory status for 2020 Code
UKSIF Member since Q4 2020. Actively participate in roundtables and speaking on webinars
 |Source: GAM.
Logos are trademarks of their respective owners and are used for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as an endorsement or sponsorship of GAM.
Euro sif
CHAPTER 5: 
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202127 |
CHAPTER 5: CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Our people
Diversity and inclusion 
At GAM, diversity and inclusion are critical to our success and 
we are committed to championing diversity at all levels. By 
fostering an environment that embraces diverse perspectives 
we become better investors and better problem solvers. A 
diverse, inclusive environment makes us good listeners, 
empathetic to the needs and aspirations of our clients. Senior 
management take specific steps to foster this environment 
and cultivate inclusiveness through appropriate training at all 
levels and regions. We are deeply committed to offering equal 
employment and advancement opportunities for all individuals 
regardless of age, race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, disability, 
religion or other characteristics. We believe that diversity and 
inclusion are values that attract, develop and retain exceptional 
colleagues and strengthen our talent.
In our 2021 Employee Survey we asked employees to 
voluntarily disclose additional diversity data including 
gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, religion and 
neurodiversity, all on a non-attributable basis, to help us 
monitor and continute to improve diversity.
Culture
We have a diversity and inclusion employee network called 
Equals which is led by a working group of colleagues who 
collaborate with internal and external partners to champion, co-
ordinate, monitor and drive diversity-related initiatives across the 
firm globally. Equals is open to all employees and is sponsored 
by members of our Senior Leadership Team. In addition, we 
have an Ethnic Minority Network which forms part of Equals and 
focuses on supporting ethnicity-specific programmes such as 
10,000 Black Interns.Examples of some initiatives include arranging quarterly internal 
events around International Women’s Day, Pride Month and 
Black History Month to raise awareness, promote education and 
celebrate diversity, as well as arranging external events such 
as the Power of Diversity panel discussion led by our female 
portfolio managers. Furthermore, Equals collaborated with 
Human Resources to collect GAM’s first set of Diversity and 
Inclusion data in 2021 via the Employee Survey.
We are signatories to the Women in Finance Charter in the UK, 
and members of the 30% Club in Ireland and of the Diversity 
Project’s InterInvest – an initiative to drive LGBT+ equality and 
inclusion across the investment industry – all of which support 
our progress toward our Diversity and Inclusion goals. 
For 2021, CEO Pete Sanderson cascaded an objective to all 
employees to demonstrate at least one action taken to support 
diversity at GAM. This was measured in year-end performance 
reviews.
Talent
To support us in achieving our firm-wide diversity and inclusion 
goals, we have partnered with Inclusivity, a consultancy 
devoted to supporting diverse talent, including those already 
in work, returning to work after a break or seeking new 
opportunities. By partnering with them, our goal is to ensure 
we reach more diverse talent pools when we are recruiting for 
open roles across the business.
As part of our commitment to nurturing, developing and 
retaining our existing talent, we have also partnered with Talent 
Keepers. Through this partnership, we are offering executive 
one-to-one coaching to support colleagues coming back from 
long-term leave. The coaching is also offered to their managers. 
This includes but is not limited to, all long-term leave, maternity 
leave, adoption leave, parental leave or sick leave. 
Encouraging talent in asset management
At GAM we believe diversity of talent is crucial for both our 
company and the industry. This means providing opportunities 
to encourage a wide range of disciplines and backgrounds to 
access the industry. 
GAM has a long-standing partnership with Investment20/20 
and in October we welcomed our seventh intake of trainees, 
who joined a range of departments. Many former trainees, 
including women in our investment teams, were offered 
permanent positions at the end of the programme. 
We offer similar trainee schemes in Zurich and Dublin, as well 
as corporate mentoring to Year 13 students, in the last year of 
secondary school. Sustainability is integral to our strategy, 
both in the way we operate as a firm 
and in the investment strategies and 
solutions we provide for our clients. 
We are pleased to join the UN Global 
Compact and committed to achieving 
and upholding best-in-class standards 
for our sustainability activities across the 
business. 
Peter Sanderson
Chief Executive Officer| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202128 |
IFS Apprenticeship scheme – Dublin  
We joined this initiative in 2020 and currently have four 
individuals in the programme. The two-year programme 
offers the possibility for individuals who may not have had an 
opportunity to work in the funds industry or go to third level 
college to combine paid on-the-job training with academic study. 
On completion of the apprenticeships, individuals will have a 
Level 6 Higher Certificate in International Financial Services or a 
Level 8 Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics combined 
with 2 years’ work experience in the funds industry.
#10,000BlackInterns programme – London  
When we signed up to the 100BlackInterns programme in 
2020, its goal was to offer 100 internships to black students 
across the UK to help kick-start their career in investment 
management. With only 12 black portfolio managers who 
currently manage money in the UK, it seeks to tackle the 
poor representation of black people in investment roles in the 
industry. The founders received an overwhelming response 
to the initiative with 200 firms making 450 offers. As a result, 
the programme has expanded and rebranded, with the new 
objective to offer 10,000 internships over five years across 24 
different sectors involving more than 700 companies. Three 
interns joined our investment teams this summer and for 2022, 
we have committed to increase the number of internships from 
three to five. 
My highlight was meeting such a range of 
different people. Because of the flexibility 
my manager had given me, I was able 
to speak to so many people in different 
departments and that meant that I was 
able to talk to people who’d been at the 
company for two years right through to 
twenty plus years. I loved that exposure 
because everyone was so welcoming and 
supportive.
Abena Akyeampong  
Intern, #10,000BlackInterns programme| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202129 |
Family-friendly and flexible working
We recognise the importance of supporting employees in 
balancing work with family life, caring responsibilities, personal 
and social life. To this end, we offer enhanced family policies 
across all our locations. This is reflected in the 384 weeks of 
family leave taken in 2021, of which 51% of the population 
were male, highlighting our commitment to gender equality. 
We want to foster and encourage flexibility in the way we work 
at GAM. We have adopted a fully agile working policy following 
feedback we received from our employee well-being survey. 
Employees are now able to work remotely for all or part of the 
week, with personal preference supported.
Mentoring  
The results of our Global Employee Experience survey last 
year told us that one of our areas for improvement is offering 
development opportunities. As part of our commitment to 
making improvements in this area, we launched a Global 
Mentoring Programme. Since its launch in June 2021, 46 
employees have signed up to become mentors, with 18 active 
mentorship pairings. 
Development  
Training and knowledge sharing are key to continuous 
improvement. We have a group-wide learning management 
system that provides a centralised repository for all learning 
and development needs. 
Our ESG training approach takes the form of external 
qualifications such as the CFA Certificate in ESG Investing 
as well as internal knowledge sharing, dedicated learning 
materials and micro-seminars. 
For 2021, we cascaded a company-wide objective for all 
employees to acquire a minimum of 4 hours of ESG-related 
training. Completion of this objective is reviewed as part of the 
annual performance appraisal process. In 2021, 4.9 hours of 
ESG-related training were completed per employee.
To support this objective, we provide access to a range of 
learning content including four dedicated modules from Swiss 
Sustainable Finance (SSF). We launched LinkedIn Learning, a 
new e-learning resource for all employees with a digital library of 
more than 6,000 courses, where we have a range of ESG curated 
content covering sustainability and environmental awareness. | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202130 |
We also support professional qualifications such as the 
Investment Management Certificate (IMC) and CFA. In 2020 
and 2021, a number of colleagues across GAM enrolled in the 
CFA Certificate in ESG Investing. This was actively sponsored 
in 2021 as part of GAM’s overall ESG training approach. 
GAM also participated in the pilot programme for the new 
CFA Certificate in Climate and Investing due for release 
in 2022. In 2021, we partnered with the PRI (Principles for 
Responsible Investment) to provide e-learning and certification 
on ‘Foundations in Responsible Investment’, which delivers an 
accredited course for our distribution functions who require 
more specialist knowledge. So far, 65 out of 79 employees 
(82%) in-scope for this e-learning have become certified.
We have seen a considerable increase in average training hours 
per employee from 12.10 hours in 2020 to 22.4 hours in 2021.
Gender pay analysis and action
GAM is firmly committed to ensuring equal pay for men 
and women doing comparable work, and ensuring 
diversity through our firm, including ensuring strong female 
representation across functions and seniority levels. We apply 
those principles globally, and in our Swiss and UK locations 
there are also specific requirements with which the Group will 
comply, concerned respectively with equal pay and the gender 
pay gap.
Equal pay is the fundamental requirement that employees 
should receive equal pay for equal work, unless any difference 
can be justified on unbiased grounds. Equal pay analyses look 
at individual employees’ pay relative to that of comparable 
peers – they do not compare across those with different job 
characteristics.
A gender pay gap, as now characterised in UK regulation, is 
a much broader measure which compares the pay of all men 
and women in the group in question, irrespective of the jobs 
they perform. It does not therefore measure whether women 
are paid more or less than men for like work, but whether 
overall, the average pay of all women and men in that group 
differs. The presence of a gender pay gap does not imply the 
presence of unequal pay, but does illustrate that there is some 
form of imbalance in the pay of men and women. Employers 
need to determine the reasons for that gap through further 
analysis; typically a gap is found to stem principally from 
proportionally lower female representation in more senior roles 
and higher-paying specialisms.
We believe that both measures are important ways to assess 
and inform our delivery of a fair, diverse talent environment, by 
ensuring equal pay for like roles while maintaining focus on our 
continued drive for female representation across our whole firm. 
GAM’s Compensation Committee has therefore given its support 
to GAM progressing both over the next year and beyond. For 2021, GAM has undertaken its equal pay analysis for 
Switzerland, covering 180 of our employees representing 26% 
of our employees.* That analysis, which was subject to an 
independent audit by KPMG, found no equal pay discrepancy 
in our Swiss businesses.
We have also, for the first time, undertaken to complete 
and disclose any UK Gender Pay Gap based on the UK’s 
statutory date of 6 April 2021. GAM is not required by UK law 
to make that disclosure, as none of its employing companies 
meets the 250-employee threshold set by UK Government, 
but has voluntarily elected to do so for its aggregated UK 
employee base. That analysis will therefore cover employees 
representing 52% of our global employee base as of 31 March 
2021, and is planned for disclosure to employees and on our 
website in late March or early April 2022. Disclosure will show 
the standard UK Gender Pay Gap statistics, for consistency 
with our peer firms, along with accompanying analysis to 
identify drivers of that pay gap and so inform our ongoing 
action to improve our gender diversity.
For 2022, the intent is to expand the scope of those analyses 
in order to improve our transparency on this topic across our 
global footprint in addition to our ‘home’ populations. For 
equal pay, we will be using the Swiss-based methodology to 
undertake equal pay analysis in other countries, beginning 
with the UK; extension of the gender pay gap methodology 
outside the UK to our global population will also be examined, 
with the aim of supporting our drive for greater gender 
diversity across the Group.
Employee engagement
Our employees’ opinion matters to us, and in seeking 
their opinion we aim to increase a sense of ownership and 
responsibility while helping GAM to understand our employees’ 
motivation, attitude and satisfaction. In 2021, we once again 
conducted our annual Global Employee Experience survey 
which gives us the opportunity to share feedback about 
what works well at GAM and what we can do to improve our 
experiences. The annual survey closed in December 2021. We 
increased our response rate to over 80% of employees. We 
continued to have strong results for ‘our values’, ‘diversity and 
inclusion’ and ‘well-being’ overall but the results highlighted 
‘personal development’, ‘employee engagement’ and 
communication as further areas for improvement. As last year, 
we will hold focus session with employees to analyse and 
respond to feedback in the first quarter of 2022. 
* Analysis date 25 March 2021.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202131 |
Our community
Volunteering
We support our employees in playing a positive role in 
their communities. All permanent employees and full time 
contractors are now entitled and recommended to take up 
to two paid volunteer days per calendar year. We have six 
core areas that we encourage our staff to focus on: education 
& teaching, social mobility, environmental & conservation, 
community (young people, elderly, disabled, homeless), 
animal welfare & care and the administration of public events. 
We have also entered into two partnerships with Junior 
Achievement and IntoUniversity to support skills-based 
volunteering. This year, 26% of employees took advantage of 
opportunities to volunteer through volunteering days, totalling 
1361.5 volunteering hours. As a result of the pandemic, the 
opportunities to coordinate in-person volunteering were more 
limited. In 2021, we for the first time set an objective for all 
employees to volunteer. We will set this goal again in 2022 with 
the intention of increasing employee participation. 
Our employees around the world took the opportunity to 
volunteer in their communities:
Hong Kong:  16 employees spent the afternoon helping to 
clean up the 5.8 kilometre trail from Pok Fu Lam Reservoir to 
The Peak. They volunteered in support of Green Low Carbon 
Day, an initiative to support green projects and encourage 
participants to adopt a low-carbon lifestyle. 
New York:  Six colleagues spent the day helping to clean up 
Hunter’s Point South Park. This waterfront park was, until 
recently, an abandoned post-industrial area in Long Island 
City, but has now been transformed into a space that offers fun 
and relaxation for everyone in the area.
Zurich:  Four employees went into schools and taught finance 
topics to secondary students to support their workforce 
readiness by creating a link between school and the world of 
business. GAM participates in the project in partnership with the 
worldwide operating organisation Junior Achievement to develop 
entrepreneurship skill sets and enhance financial education. Charitable donations
Our commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion through 
education and building future skills informs the focus of our 
charitable giving. Last year, we established a charities policy 
to set out how we support organisations and causes that are 
aligned with our own culture and values, in particular those 
that focus on social mobility. 
In 2021, we supported 19 charities, donating a total of  
CHF 140,455 (2020: CHF 78,043). We also support direct 
employee donations through a ‘Give-As-You-Earn-Scheme’ in 
the UK.
Our suppliers
Wherever possible, GAM strives to work with and support local 
suppliers. A local approach helps to grow the local economy 
as well as reducing emissions released while transporting 
goods and delivering services.  
GAM is committed to ensuring that our operations and supply 
chains are free of any slavery and/or human trafficking and 
will not knowingly support or do business with any supplier 
who is involved in such activities. GAM expects its employees, 
contractors and suppliers to prevent acts of modern slavery 
and human trafficking from occurring within their businesses 
and supply chains and has provided mandatory training on 
this topic for all employees.
Our environment
We are a global firm, with offices in 14 countries and clients in 
many more. Our main direct environmental impacts are linked 
to the operation of our office facilities and business travel. 
Reducing our climate impact
We have been able to minimise our direct emissions in recent 
years by locating our offices in modern buildings with strong 
sustainability credentials. Our largest office, in London, is rated 
BREEAM ‘Excellent’ for sustainability best practice, a rating only 
awarded to the top 10% of new non-domestic buildings in the UK. 
It is fitted with photovoltaic panels on the rooftop that supplement 
the building’s supply of electricity. In Zurich, GAM is located 
in Prime Tower, a modern building with various environmental 
certifications including LEED Gold (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) and green property gold (Credit Suisse: 
quality seal of approval for sustainable property).
We measure our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as well as business 
travel, which is our largest source of operational Scope 3 
emissions. We measure flights, car hire and rail when booked 
through our business travel agents, but taxis and other road 
transportation have not previously been recorded centrally and 
are therefore estimated. Other sources of Scope 3 emissions 
such as waste and water consumption are also estimated as 
our consumption is not differentiated from that of other building 
occupants in most of our office locations. To account for the 
huge increase in homeworking during the pandemic, estimated 
homeworking emissions have been included in our Scope 3 
reporting for 2020 and 2021.  As actual data was not available, 
we have benchmarked an average homeworking day accounting 
for IT , heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and lighting.A former work colleague was looking for 
volunteers to build a new adventure garden, 
and as I myself grew up with four children 
in my local area who went to this school 
because of their disabilities, it was obvious 
to me that I would like to help out there. I 
am still a friend of one of these children 
today and he was happy when I told him 
about my volunteering in his former school. 
Thank you also to GAM for making this 
great experience possible for me.
Daniel Rossacher  
Investment Manager, Volunteer at  
Heilpädagogisches Zentrum Hagendorn| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202132 |
Renewable energy:  We have set a target for all our GAM-
managed global offices to be using 100% renewable electricity 
resources by the end of 2022. At the end of 2021, 83% of 
our staff were based in office buildings which source only 
renewable electricity.
Business travel and video conferencing:  The ongoing 
pandemic has undoubtedly suppressed demand for business 
travel, but even prior to recent events, GAM had begun 
a transition to greater use of alternatives such as video 
conferencing.
Last year we completed the deployment of video-conferencing 
equipment to all major offices globally, and in London and 
Zurich every meeting room has been enabled for video 
conferencing. Everyone at GAM is now equipped for video 
conferences wherever they choose to work, be that at home, 
in the office or on the move. Large scale staff and client events 
are also now regularly hosted over video conference.
We have set a target to maintain our total distance travelled by 
air at a level at least 25% below our 2018 figures. We achieved 
this in 2021 and will maintain the same target for 2022.
Remote working:  The high proportion of staff working from 
home during the pandemic has resulted in reduced energy 
consumption at many of our offices. We are conscious that 
some of that reduction will have been offset by increased 
domestic usage, so during Big Energy Saving Week, an 
initiative which aims to help people to cut their electricity bills 
while also reducing their carbon footprint, we incentivised 
employees to switch their home energy provider to one that 
only uses energy from renewable sources.
Carbon offsetting:  We have looked to carbon offsetting 
projects to compensate for those emissions we have been 
unable to avoid. GAM has been certified as a CarbonNeutral® 
company for its operational emissions since 2019. GAM has 
gone a step further by voluntarily committing to offset 200% 
of the emissions generated by our business operations and 
travel by supporting projects across the developing world that 
build renewable energy infrastructure, prevent deforestation 
and reduce, avoid or remove greenhouse gas emissions. 
We have maintained this certification over that last three 
years and are now looking to combine certified emissions 
reductions with carbon removal projects as part of achieving 
net-zero emissions from our own business operations. We 
are committed to ensuring that any offsets meet the Oxford 
Principles for Net Zero Aligned Carbon Offsetting and our 
target is to maintain our offsets at 200% of our Scope 1, 2 and 
3 emissions as reported.Community reforestation in Ghana
We are continuing our partnership with Natural Capital 
Partners to support two further carbon reduction projects 
and a carbon removal project; One of these is a community 
reforestation in Ghana, which aims to improve the livelihoods 
in the Ashanti Region of Ghana by using reforestation projects 
to support ecosystems and the local economy.
This project is restoring degraded forest reserves with 
indigenous trees among riparian buffer zones, which have 
been degraded as a consequence of overexploitation, bush 
fires and conversions to agriculture. Working closely with local 
farmers, this project aims to expand by around 1,000 hectares 
per year, introducing new project areas and improving more 
livelihoods through reforestation. In addition to delivering 
emission reductions to further our action to combat climate 
change, the community reforestation project delivers a 
significant number of sustainable development benefits that 
includes the improvement of gender equality, as 40% of jobs 
created are to be filled by women and 25% of those available 
areas for intercropping are to be distributed to female farmers. 
The project also supports clean water and sanitation by 
improving the supply and quality of the water available through 
the planting of trees near waterways. Furthermore, sanitary 
infrastructure and boreholes have been installed in a local 
village Kotaa.
Projects such as community reforestation in Ghana allow us to 
enhance biodiversity and better the health and livelihoods of 
local communities around the world.
Water and waste
Our ability to monitor waste and water consumption is limited 
as it is not differentiated from that of other building occupants 
in most of our office locations. Our London office is, however, 
fitted with a greywater system that recycles non-contaminated 
waste water.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202133 |
Environmental indicators
Energy 2021 2020 2019 % change 2021 vs 2020
Scope 1
Heating natural gas (MWh) 556 564 1,148 (1.4)%
Scope 2
Electricity consumption 
(MWh)911 1,704 3,206 (46.5)%
Percentage of which 
renewable electricity72% 60% 65% 20%
Scope 1&2
Total energy consumption 
(MWh)1,467 2,268 4,354 (35.3)%
Scope 3
Business travel – Air (km) 236,408 845,190 5,177,042 (72.0)%
Homeworking (tCo2e) 143 127 -
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
Scope 1 & 2 237 490 567
Scope 3 78 343 1,332
Total activities (tCO2e) 315 833 1,908 (62.2)%
Total per FTE 0.52 1.16 2.28 (55.2)%
Carbon offsetting 
commitment (tCO2e)630 1,666 3,816
Percentage of carbon 
offsetting200% 200% 200%
 |Source: GAM. 2020 data has been updated using actual figures rather than estimates which were disclosed in the 2020 Annual 
Report. Similarly, the 2020 Annual Report includes some estimated data and will be independently verified when actual data becomes 
available.CHAPTER 6: 
CLIMATE-
RELATED 
DISCLOSURES| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202135 |
CHAPTER 6: CLIMATE-RELATED 
DISCLOSURES
Context
The delayed COP26 conference in Glasgow provided a clear reiteration of the imperative to keep within 1.5°C of global temperature 
rise and led to a further set of commitments, both from countries and the private sector. However, the necessary scale and pace of 
transition to net zero is significant. 
We are committed to supporting our clients in navigating this transition. Indeed, we consider it part of our duty of care and, where 
applicable, our fiduciary duty to do so. 
In line with this commitment, we formally became supporters of the T askforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure in February 
2021 and joined the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative in July 2021.
This section represents our first TCFD-aligned report and outlines our approach and key areas of progress in response to the TCFD 
recommendations. We will continue to work on enhancing our disclosure.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
GOVERNANCE
TCFD disclosure 
recommendationApproach and progress in 2021
Describe the board’s 
oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities.The Board  is responsible for our sustainability and associated climate strategy. The Board Risk Committee provides 
oversight of climate-related risks and the Chair of the Risk Committee has taken on specific responsibility for climate-
related issues. A Climate Risk Register was agreed in 2021 and appropriate K ey Risk Indicators (KRIs) will be tracked 
and reported from Q1 2022.
A 2-hour training session was held with the full Board covering climate risks for the finance sector , regulatory 
response and risks management and key initiatives and commitments. Climate-related issues were raised at each 
quarterly update in 2021.
Further details on our Sustainability Governance are in Chapter 1.
Describe management’s 
role in assessing and 
managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities.Management-level oversight is provided though relevant committees including the Investment Management Oversight 
Committee, Risk Oversight Committee and Sustainability Committee. Climate risks are embedded in risk and control 
self-assessments (RCSAs) for relevant functions. 
RCSAs are reviewed and updated on at least an annual basis and when incidents/events occur by the 1st line of 
defence owners. Quarterly meetings between each department and the risk department are in place to ensure that 
any issues are raised and appropriately escalated, including climate risk-related issues.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202136 |
STRATEGY
TCFD disclosure 
recommendationApproach and progress in 2021
Describe the climate-
related risks and 
opportunities the 
organization has identified 
over the short, medium, 
and long term.We recognise two major risk categories, as outlined in the TCFD guidance, that can contribute to potential financial 
implications if not considered as part of risk management or strategic planning. These are:
•  Transition risks  - related to the transition to a low-carbon economy including policy and legal, technology, market 
and reputational risk
•  Physical risks  - related to physical impacts including acute risks such as increase in severity of extreme weather 
events and chronic risks such as increase in mean temperature 
We have identified key risks from the perspective of risk to clients, our firm and the market over a short-term (1-5 years), 
medium-term (5-10 years) and long-term (10 years or more) time horizon. Potential climate-related risks relate to:
•  Investments  – Climate-related transition or physical risks negatively impacting client asset values, this includes 
impacts on the markets as a result of failure of governments and action on climate change 
•  Product set  – regulatory, reputational and commercial risks associated with ensuring we have an appropriate 
product range 
•  Operational – disruption to operations and client services as a result of physical risks
Describe the impact of 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial 
planning.Climate change, and the scale, pace and nature of our response, will increasingly shape economies, markets, 
companies and investment portfolios for the coming decades. How we align companies and portfolios with this 
transition to a net-zero future, will be a defining characteristic of investment. In July, we made the strategic decision to 
join the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative and commit to support the goal of net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 
2050 or sooner, working in partnership with our clients. 
Our strategy focuses on three areas:
•  Committing to net-zero  – the Net Zero Asset Managers commitments include setting interim targets, implementing 
targeted stewardship and policy advocacy in support of achieving global net-zero emissions by 2050 or sooner 
•  Developing new climate products and solutions  – to facilitate the decarbonisation of client portfolios and 
increase investment in climate solutions
•  Building out climate analytics  – to better incorporate climate risks and opportunity into our investment decisions 
and help our clients understand their climate exposure
Further details on progress against our strategy and NZAM commitments are provided in the next section.
Describe the resilience of 
the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration 
different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C 
or lower scenario.We review and monitor our resilience in three main areas – our investments, our product set and our operations. Key 
Risk Indicators (KRIs) are tracked in our Quarterly Risk Reports. 
Investment resilience  – we review climate-related risks at the portfolio level in the following ways:
•  Data and analytics  – we use a range of data, analysis and research to understand climate-related risks. This 
includes MSCI Climate Metrics and Climate Value At Risk Analysis, CDP , TPI and Climate Action 100+ Net Zero 
Benchmark. This is complemented by our fundamental analysis. 
• Quarterly investment risks reviews  – these include a review of key portfolio carbon metrics including absolute 
and relative carbon intensity of the portfolio relative to its benchmark, and holdings with the highest carbon 
intensity.
•  Scenario analysis and stress testing  – Climate scenarios are a helpful tool to identify and understand possible 
physical and transition to low-carbon economy risks and opportunities at different time horizons. We reviewed two 
aggressive transition scenarios developed by the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) - NGFS 1.5 
Orderly and Disorderly  and the IPCC RCP8.5 (Representative Concentration Pathway) scenario which assumes a 
mean temperature rise of ~4°C.
•  Stewardship  – our engagement and, where relevant voting, support both better information on climate-related risks 
and encourages companies to put in place appropriate transition plans.
Product set resilience  – we review our product set on an annual basis. We now additionally review products on 
climate metrics relative to the benchmark where data is available. 
Operational resilience  – we have reviewed our disaster recovery and business continuity planning (B CP) for specific 
BCP events linked to physical climate-related risks. 
No material risks are currently identified as part of our RCSA reports. 
Further details on our activities are in ‘our investments’, ‘sustainable products’ and ‘active stewardship’ chapters. | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202137 |
RISK MANAGEMENT
TCFD disclosure 
recommendationApproach and progress in 2021
Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying 
and assessing climate-
related risks.Climate Risk Register – our approach to managing risk is a structured process which involves the identification, 
assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of such risks.  
Risks management framework – climate-related risks have been identified across functions, mainly through the 
review and consideration of information from many external sources. This includes existing and emerging risks. All 
identified risks are documented, assessed, reviewed and approved by the Risk Oversight Committee. All risks are 
assessed in line with our risk and control assessment methodology.  
The Impact assessment considers Financial, Client, Reputational, Regulatory and Business Disruption factors in 
determining the severity of a risk. The Likelihood assessment matrix considers frequency, complexity and automation.  
Climate-related investment risks – climate risks are considered as part of our investment process as outlined in our 
Responsible Investment Policy and Climate Change Statement. 
Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing 
climate-related risks.Risk appetite statements  are determined for all material risk areas. Climate-related risk is a consideration in several 
of the material risk areas that the firm monitors. Qualitative and quantitative K ey Risk Indicators (KRIs) are defined to 
measure and monitor adherence to the firm’s risk appetite. KRIs are tracked and reported through risk reports to the 
various company Boards and Committees to identify and escalate any issues outside of the firm’s risk appetite.
Risk and control self assessments (RCSAs)  – all Climate risks are represented in RCSAs for each team that 
manages those risks. RCSAs are reviewed and updated on at least an annual basis and when incidents/events occur 
by the 1st line of defence owners. Any residual risk assessment over a certain threshold requires the risk owner to 
take action to reduce the risk or to request formal risk acceptance. Quarterly meetings are in place between each 
department and the risk department to ensure climate-risks are raised and appropriately dealt with. Any climate 
risk-related incidents that occur are required to be entered as soon as is practicably possible in the firm’s incident 
management system, following the standard incident process.  
Climate-related investment risks  – our approach to managing climate-related investment risks is outlined in our 
Climate Change Statement. Our approach includes ESG integration, engagement with companies and broader policy 
advocacy, our voting and ESG risk oversight. 
Product-related risks  – these are managed as part product strategy and development process and overseen by our 
Product Strategy Committee.  
Operational risks  – these are managed as part of BCP and facilities management. Measures include targets reducing 
operational emission, increasing renewable energy and purchasing credible carbon offsets where we are unable to 
further reduce emissions. 
Describe how processes 
for identifying, assessing, 
and managing climate-
related risks are integrated 
into the organization’s 
overall risk management.Climate risks are embedded in the standard risk management structures across the firm. One of the keys for effective 
Risk Management is a Risk governance structure that provides appropriate senior level oversight, segregation of 
duties, as well as adequate, effective, and independent control within a risk-conscious culture.
A Policy Management Framework and a set of Group policies support the delivery of the organisation’s business 
and strategic objectives by establishing operating principles and standards for managing GAM’s Risks across the 
organisation. 
Our Risk Management Framework is underpinned by a three lines of defence/control model, with defined 
accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management which are designed to deliver the standards of conduct 
that our stakeholders expect. This provides structure around our risk management and control by defining roles and 
responsibilities in different areas and the relationship between those different areas.
As outlined above, specific climate-related risks are integrated into the risk and control self assessments (RC SAs) of 
each relevant function.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202138 |
METRICS AND TARGETS
TCFD disclosure 
recommendationApproach and progress in 2021
Disclose the metrics used 
by the organization to 
assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in 
line with its strategy and 
risk management process.Disclosure on carbon exposure across GAM-managed funds and mandates provides the foundations to better 
understand our climate-related risks and opportunities. At GAM we manage more than 90 products across different 
asset classes. 
We use several metrics to measure risk and track our impact across our key areas of risk:
Carbon Footprint Analysis  – we have selected three of the main carbon footprint calculation approaches 
to measure our exposure on an aggregate basis. These include the Weighted Average Carbon Intensity as 
recommended by TCFD, Financed Carbon Emissions, which measures carbon footprint per million invested and 
Finance Carbon Intensity, which measures the carbon intensity per revenue. At a granular company level, we use 
additional data points including exposure to fossil fuel, quality of climate governance and targets, and broader 
strategic approach. 
Scenario Analysis  – climate scenarios are a helpful tool to identify and understand possible physical and transition 
to low carbon economy risks and opportunities at different time horizons. To stress test the portfolios to the greatest 
degree we decided to choose the most aggressive transition scenario as well as the most aggressive physical risk 
scenario. This provides a high level view but we consider fundamental analysis as required to understand climate-
related risks and how well positioned companies are to address these. 
We report on an aggregate basis for equity, fixed income corporate credit and sovereign funds. The indices are 
broad-based indices for each asset class – MSCI ACWI (equity), Bloomberg EuroAgg Corporate Total Return 
Index (corporate credit), JPMorgan GBI-EM Global Diversified Composite (sovereign). Each of these metrics has 
strengths and limitations which we have sought to outline in the definitions, methodology and limitations section in 
Appendix 2. 
Operational  – we disclose energy-related emissions and renewable energy use (Scope 1 and 2) and business 
travel by air (Scope 3). We aim to expand the scope of our Scope 3 operational emissions to include train and car. 
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 
2, and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks. 
Table 1: Carbon footprint metrics for aggregate equity
GAM Equity 
AggCoverage 
(%)MSCI ACWICoverage 
(%)Comparison
WEIGHTED AVERAGE CARBON INTENSITY
WACI (tCO2e / 
(CHF)M salesScopes 1 and 2  97 97  138 99.8 -30%
Scope 3 Upstream  265 69.9  227 99.7 17%
Scope 3 
Downstream 331 69.9  369 99.7 -10%
FOOTPRINT METRIC BASED ON INVESTOR ALLOCATION
Allocation Base: EVIC
Financed Carbon 
Emissions (tCO2e / 
(CHF)M invested)Scopes 1 and 2  29 95.7  48 99.7 -40%
Scope 3 Upstream  83 95.6  72 99.6 16%
Scope 3 
Downstream 150 95.6  169 99.6 -11%
Financed Carbon 
Intensity (tCO2e / 
(CHF)M sales)Scopes 1 and 2  95 95.7  162 99.7 -41%
Scope 3 Upstream  271 95.6  241 99.6 13%
Scope 3 
Downstream 490 95.6  565 99.6 -13%
Please see Appendix 2 for scope and coverage of analysis| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202139 |
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 
2, and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks. (Part II)Table 2: Carbon footprint metrics for fixed income credit 
GAM Fixed 
Income 
Credit AggCoverage 
(%)Bloomberg 
EuroAgg 
Corporate 
Total Return 
Index Coverage 
(%)Comparison
WEIGHTED AVERAGE CARBON INTENSITY
WACI (tCO2e / 
(CHF)M salesScopes 1 and 2  56 82.3  129 96.7 -57%
Scope 3 Upstream  128 81.6  219 96.1 -41%
Scope 3 
Downstream 358 81.6  460 96.1 -22%
FOOTPRINT METRIC BASED ON INVESTOR ALLOCATION
Allocation Base: EVIC
Financed Carbon 
Emissions (tCO2e / 
(CHF)M invested)Scopes 1 and 2  27 76.7  70 89.5 -62%
Scope 3 Upstream  45 76.7  102 81.5 -56%
Scope 3 
Downstream 102 76.7  267 81.5 -62%
Financed Carbon 
Intensity (tCO2e / 
(CHF)M sales)Scopes 1 and 2  78 76.7  175 89.5 -56%
Scope 3 Upstream  131 76.7  255 81.5 -49%
Scope 3 
Downstream 298 76.7  667 81.5 -55%
Please see Appendix 2 for scope and coverage of analysis
 
Table 3: Carbon footprint metrics for fixed income sovereign
GAM Fixed 
Income 
Sovereign 
AggCoverage 
(%)JPMorgan 
GBI-EM 
Global 
Diversified 
CompositeCoverage 
(%)Comparison
Sovereign 
Constituents GHG 
Intensity tCO2e/
(CHF)M GDP 
nominalGHG Intensity 798.5 94.1 867.6 58.6 -8%
Please see Appendix 2 for scope and coverage of analysis
 
Table 4: Climate Value at Risk metrics for aggregate equity and fixed income credit
Scenarios GAM Equity Agg MSCI ACWIGAM Fixed Income 
Credit AggBloomberg 
EuroAgg 
Corporate Total 
Return
Transition Risk Scenario NGFS 
1.5 Orderly-4.50% -4.87% -0.96% -1.2%
Transition Risk Scenario NGFS 
1.5 Disorderly-21.30% -26.99% -5.30% -13.7%
Physical Risk Scenario IPCC 
RCP 8.5-9.89% -10.16% -2.62% -1.49%
Please see Appendix 2 for scope and coverage of analysis
Operational – this data is provided in ‘Our environment’ section.
Describe the targets used 
by the organization to 
manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities 
and performance against 
targets.Investments and product range  
Based on joining the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative  GAM has committed to support the goal of net-zero GHG 
emissions by 2050, in line with global efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. GAM has committed to 1) Set an interim target 
for the proportion of assets to be managed in line with the attainment of net-zero emissions by 2050 or sooner, and 
2) Review our interim target at least every five years, with a view to ratcheting up the proportion of A UM covered until 
100% of assets are included. These targets will be published in Q2 2022. 
Operational impact  
We set targets in 2020 relating to the use of renewable energy, business travel and carbon offsetting. Details on 
progress against our 2021 targets and targets for 2022 are in the ‘Our environment’ section of this report. | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202140 |
Commitment Progress
1. Set interim targets for 2030, consistent with a fair 
share of the 50% global reduction in CO2 identified 
as a requirement in the IPCC special report on 
global warming of 1.5°C We completed GHG emissions exposure assessment across all GAM-managed Equity 
and Fixed Income Credit and Sovereign funds. Metrics reported as part of T CFD-
aligned report. 
2. Take account of portfolio Scope 1 & 2 emissions 
and, to the extent possible, material portfolio Scope 
3 emissions We have assessed Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions and will consider the extent to which 
our target can include Scope 3, given the additional uncertainty with respect to this 
data. Our stewardship and engagement strategy takes into account Scope 3 emissions 
for key sectors such as oil and gas, automobiles and banks. 
3. Prioritise the achievement of real economy 
emissions reductions within the sectors and 
companies in which we invest We completed GHG emissions exposure assessments across all GAM-managed Equity 
and Fixed Income Credit and Sovereign funds. We increased allocation to climate 
solutions through investments in decarbonisation or EU taxonomy-aligned investment 
to mitigation criteria.
4. If using offsets, invest in long-term carbon removal, 
where there are no technologically and/or financially 
viable alternatives to eliminate emissions We are committed to ensuring that any carbon offsets used in the context of our 
operational emissions meet the Oxford Principles for Net Zero Aligned Carbon 
Offsetting and will carefully consider the use of carbon removal offsets in the context of 
our targets. 
5. As required, create investment products aligned 
with net-zero emissions by 2050 and facilitate 
increased investment in climate solutions We continue to build climate impact considerations into our investment strategies. 
In 2021, we launched two products with explicit carbon-related objectives. Our 
Sustainable Climate Bond strategy invests in green and sustainability bonds with clear 
use of proceeds linked to carbon reduction and our Sustainable Emerging Equity 
strategy has a binding target of 50% lower WACI relative to the benchmark. We are 
developing additional strategies for launch in 2022.
See Chapter 3
6. Provide asset owner clients with information and 
analytics on net-zero investing and climate risk and 
opportunity In 2021 we launched our ESG Summary Reports that include a range of carbon metrics 
– including WACI, total carbon emissions (Scope 1,2 and 3), carbon footprint and 
carbon intensity. These reports are produced on a monthly basis for funds covering 
70% of total AuM to support our clients. 
7. Implement a stewardship and engagement strategy, 
with a clear escalation and voting policy, that is 
consistent with our ambition for all assets under 
management to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050 
or sooner We exercise active stewardship in three ways: voting, direct and collaborative 
engagements and public policy engagement. In 2021 we were accepted as one of 
the first signatories to the updated UK Stewardship Code and committed to support 
the stewardship principles outlined in Japan’s Stewardship Code and the Singapore 
Stewardship Principles for Responsible Investors. The Climate stewardship section 
outlines the actions we have taken in 2021. 
8. Engage with actors key to the investment system 
including credit rating agencies, auditors, stock 
exchanges, proxy advisers, investment consultants, 
and data and service providers to ensure that 
products and services available to investors are 
consistent with the aim of achieving global net-zero 
emissions by 2050 or sooner In 2021 we engaged directly with several data service providers to select the best and 
most appropriate datasets, and provide feedback, to support our NZAM Commitment, 
including ESG data providers, proxy voting and a collaborative letter to credit rating 
agencies to incorporate ESG factors into credit ratings and analysis in a systematic and 
transparent way. 
We continue to work within groups including IIGCC, Climate Action 100+ and NZAM to 
support better data and methodologies. 
9. Ensure any relevant direct and indirect policy 
advocacy we undertake is supportive of achieving 
global net-zero emissions by 2050 or sooner In our effort to manage systemic climate change risk through policy advocacy, we 
selectively support policy engagement supported by organisations including IIGCC, the 
Investment Association’s Sustainable and Responsible Investment Committee in the 
UK and the PRI’s Global Policy Reference Group. This year we were pleased to sign the 
Global Investor Statement on Climate Change. 
10. Publish TCFD disclosures, including a climate action 
plan, annually, and submit them to the Investor 
Agenda via its partner organisations for review to 
ensure the approach applied is based on a robust 
methodology, consistent with the UN Race to Zero 
criteria, and action is being taken in line with the 
commitments made here We are publishing our first TCFD-aligned reporting for 2021. 
Subsequent reporting will continue to be aligned with TCFD and the expectations of the 
Net Zero Asset Managers initiative.Net Zero Asset Managers commitment
In July 2021, we joined the Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) 
initiative and committed to support the goal of net-zero 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with global 
efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. 
Specifically, we committed to: 
•  Work in partnership with asset owner clients on 
decarbonisation goals, consistent with an ambition to reach 
net-zero emissions by 2050 or sooner across all assets under 
management (‘AuM’) •  Set an interim target for the proportion of assets to be 
managed in line with the attainment of net-zero emissions by 
2050 or sooner 
•  Review our interim target at least every five years, with a view 
of ratcheting up the proportion of AuM covered until 100% of 
assets are included 
Our progress on the ten commitments is outlined below. We will 
be providing our updated targets in the second quarter of 2022 
and submitting our annual plan to the Investor Agenda. APPENDIX| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202142 |
APPENDIX
1. Sustainability policies and disclosures
Details of our policies are available here Policies and Disclosures | GAM
2. TCFD definitions, methodology and limitations
General
•  Investment coverage:  For carbon footprint analysis (Table 1) the selected asset classes for the 2021 reporting are aggregates 
of all Equity, Credit and Sovereign Fixed Income funds reflecting holdings data as of the end of December 2021. Mandates 
or multiple asset class funds are not included. This is investment management only and does not cover the private labelling 
business. This scope covers 43% of the total GAM AuM. For scenario climate value at risk analysis (Table 2), the methodology is 
only available for our equity and fixed income credit holdings. This scope covers 36% of total GAM AuM.
•  Data coverage:  This is indicated in each of the tables. This may vary between metrics since different values are needed for each 
metric approach. Emissions data vary between scopes – Scope 1 and 2 values are easier to be collected or derived than Scope 
3 downstream and upstream. Furthermore, financial information such as EVIC might not be available for all constituents. The 
WACI approach usually has the highest coverage as the data collection for this methodology is easier since EVIC value data is 
not required.
•  Data sources:  All carbon data and analysis is sourced from MSCI ESG Research . This data provider was selected following a 
review of multiple providers. We will continue to review the most appropriate data 3. 
•  Date:  Data is taken as a snapshot as at 31 December 2021. It therefore presents a snapshot in time. 
•  Comparator indices:  We have selected three comparator indices. Our funds are benchmarked against different indices, these 
will therefore not be fully representative but provide context for our disclosures. The indices are broad-based indices for each 
asset class – MSCI ACWI (equity), Bloomberg EuroAgg Corporate Total Return Index (corporate credit), JPMorgan GBI-EM 
Global Diversified Composite (sovereign).
Carbon footprint metrics 
This report uses three of the most common approaches to carry out portfolio footprinting 4
•  Scope 1 and 2: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions derived from owned and controlled business activities (Scope 1) and 
indirect GHG emissions associated with the purchase of electricity (Scope 2). ( GHG Protocol )
•  Scope 3 (upstream):  Cradle-to-gate emissions of the material or product up to the point it is sold. These emissions are 
associated with the extraction of raw material, production as well as transportation of goods acquired by a company.  
(GHG Protocol )
•  Scope 3 (downstream):  Emissions derived from transportation, processing, use as well as end of life treatment of products/
services sold. ( GHG Protocol )
3 MSCI disclaimer: This disclosure was developed using information from MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates or information providers. Although GAM (U.K.) Ltd.’s 
information providers, including without limitation, MSCI ESG Research. LLC and its affiliates (the “ESG Parties”), obtain information (the “Information”) from sources they 
consider reliable, none of the ESG Parties warrants or guarantees the originality, accuracy and/or completeness, of any data herein and expressly disclaim all express or 
implied warranties, including those of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The Information may only be used for your internal use, may not be reproduced 
or redisseminated in any form and may not be used as a basis for, or a component of, any financial instruments or products or indices. Further, none of the Information can 
in and of itself be used to determine which securities to buy or sell or when to buy or sell them. None of the ESG Parties shall have any liability for any errors or omissions 
in connection with any data herein, or any liability for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential or any other damages (including lost profits) even if notified of 
the possibility of such damages.”
4 TCFD: https://assets.bbhub.io/company/sites/60/2020/10/FINAL-TCFD-Annex-Amended-121517.pdf  pg 43-44| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202143 |
•  Enterprise value including cash (EVIC):  Used as the apportioning factor for carbon footprint calculations as it is a metric that 
can be used across different asset classes.
• Weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) (tCO2e/(CHF)M sales: Measures a portfolio’s exposure to carbon-intensive 
companies, defined as the portfolio weighted average of companies’ carbon intensity (emissions/sales).  
 
 ℎ∗ 
   
• Financed Carbon Intensity:  Measures the carbon efficiency of a portfolio, defined as the ratio of carbon emissions for which 
an investor is responsible to the sales for which an investor has a claim by their total overall financing. Emissions and sales are 
apportioned across all outstanding shares and bonds (% Enterprise Value including cash).  
 
∑ 
′  ∗   
∑ 
′  ∗    
• Financed Carbon Emissions: Measures the carbon emissions, for which an investor is responsible, per USD million invested, 
by their total overall financing. Emissions are apportioned across all outstanding shares and bonds (% Enterprise V alue including 
cash).   ∗    
∑ 
′  ∗   
   (  ) 
While Financed carbon emissions and Financed carbon intensity values can provide an insight of the contribution of the portfolio to 
climate change, WACI shows how exposed the portfolio is to carbon-intensive companies. 
• Weighted Average Carbon Intensity for Sovereigns  (tCO2e/(CHF)GDP): Measures the exposure of the portfolio to carbon-
intensive economies using the weighted average intensity of the portfolio’s sovereign constituents normalised by GDP . 
 
 ℎ∗   
 | GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202144 |
Scenario analysis metrics
•  MSCI Climate Value-at-Risk (VaR):  (Climate VaR) is 
intended to help investors identify and consider any physical 
and transition risks that might arise through climate and 
socioeconomic changes. Climate VaR is comprised of 
Low Carbon Transition Risks Scenario and the Physical 
Climate Scenarios. For the purpose of this report, we have 
selected the NGFS Scenarios Orderly and Disorderly for 
the Low Carbon Transition Risks Scenario and RCP 8.5 for 
the Physical Climate Scenario. The Climate VaR percentage 
represents the costs (negative value) or profits (positive 
value) of the aggregated fund’s market value under each 
scenario. The costs are associated with risks in future policy 
and extreme weather events while profits are associated with 
technology opportunities and some extreme weather events.
•  Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS):  
These scenarios take into consideration physical impact, 
socioeconomic changes, climate policy changes or 
introduction, technological advancement and consumer 
preferences changes in their model assumptions. We believe 
that NGFS provides the most comprehensive range of 
assumptions in their scenarios which can provide a more 
holistic view of the possible risk and opportunities for our 
funds at the time of analysis. 
•  NGFS 1.5 Orderly (Transition scenario):  The orderly 
Scenario assumes a 1.5°C world by 2050, immediate and 
smooth policy transition, fast technological changes, medium 
use of CO2 removal and medium regional policy variation.
•  NGFS 1.5 Disorderly (Transition scenario):  The Disorderly 
scenario assumes immediate but divergent policy reaction, 
fast technological changes, low use of CO2 removal, and 
medium regional policy variation.
•  IPCC:  The scenario we have used is the RCP8.5 
(Representative Concentration Pathway). This scenario 
was developed by the IPCC and was published in their 
5th Assessment Report . It assumes there will be a mean 
temperature rise of ~4°C by 2100 which represents the 
Business as Usual Scenario (BAU) as described by the IPCC. 
This scenario focuses on the physical changes that might 
occur in a +~4°C world.
5 NGFS 1.5 Orderly and Disorderly| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202145 |
Limitations
•  GHG emissions: Company absolute emissions are as 
reported by the companies thus the methodology used to 
calculate these emissions is highly likely not the same across 
all companies and sectors.
•  Estimations: When reported carbon emissions are not 
available, data providers such as MSCI can fill in these gaps 
using estimated emissions where possible. The majority of 
companies usually report on Scope 1 and 2 emissions while 
only a few companies report on Scope 3 (upstream and 
downstream) emissions according to the GHG Protoco l. 
Thus, the majority of Scope 3 emissions provided by data 
vendors are estimated using assumptions based on sector 
and geography.
•  Data availability affecting portfolio coverage: When 
carrying out portfolio carbon footprint calculations, data 
such as emissions and company financial information might 
not be available for all constituents and thus decrease the 
percentage coverage of the results. Adding to this, available 
data might be too old for analysis (2019 or earlier). In this 
report, the data used is based on 2020 absolute emissions or 
later. 
•  Asset class exclusions: Specific instruments are not covered 
by the calculations as there are no associated emissions data 
recorded. These include futures, options and cash. Such 
instruments are excluded from the calculations decreasing 
the portfolio coverage. Furthermore, not all asset classes 
can be covered by carbon footprint due to a lack of specific 
methodologies.
•  Data timeliness: Carbon footprint calculations use backward-
looking data, so the results can only showcase the carbon 
intensity of a portfolio at the time of analysis, i.e. past 
emissions. Carbon footprint does not inform investment 
managers on how their investments might be changing 
their strategies to a low-carbon economy or if they have any 
net zero targets. Therefore, carbon footprint calculations 
can provide a year-on-year change for the portfolios, and 
supplementary information such as Climate VaR as well as 
company engagement is needed for assessing possible 
investment decisions.
•  Climate scenario assumptions: These forward-looking 
metrics are intended to help investors identify and consider 
any physical and transition risks that might arise through 
climate and socioeconomic changes. We use MSCI’s 
Climate VaR models which seek to quantify the impact of 
various scenarios. All models are highly dependent on the 
assumptions made. One potential limitation is the reliance 
on carbon removal technologies that are not yet available or 
deployed at scale.
| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202146 |
3.  Key performance indicator table
Area Sub-area KPI  2021 2020
Our Approach Sustainable Funds ESG Summary Report coverage 70% -
Sustainable 
InvestmentProxy VotingVotable meetings 1,333 1,163 
Meetings voted 1,322 1,136 
% meeting voted 99.2% 97.7%
Total resolutions voted 15,125 13,551 
Total resolutions voted against management 1,816 1,104 
% of votes against management 12.0% 8.1%
Shareholder resolutions voted 392 318
Shareholder resolutions supported 295 207
% of shareholder resolutions supported 75.3% 65.1%
Votable meetings by region:
Other emerging markets 87 (7.7%) 90 (6.5%)
Japan 107 (9.3%) 108 (8.0%)
United Kingdom 100 (11.2%) 130 (7.5%)
Asia Pacific ex Japan 262 (19.9%) 231 (19.7%)
North America 408 (23.4%) 272 (30.6%)
Continental Europe 369 (28.5%) 332 (27.7%)
% of votes against management by category:
Anti-takeover-related 42.3% 3.1%
Board-related 7.2% 5.7%
Capital management 22.8% 17.4%
M&A/reorganisations 25.4% 6.2%
Preferred/bondholder meetings 0.0% 0.0%
Remuneration 23.2% 15.2%
Routine items/miscellaneous 7.4% 5.2%
Shareholder resolutions 31.5% 32.7%
Our People Employees  
Total headcount   605  701
Average tenure of employees  8.1 7.7 
Average age  42.6 41 
Average experience of investment professionals  16.4 years 13.4 years 
Part-time employees  8.6% 8% 
Our People TrainingTraining hours (average per employee) 22.4 12.1 
ESG training hours (average per employee) 4.9 - 
Our People   Employee Engagement  Global Employee Experience survey response rate 80% 76%
Our People   Mentoring Mentors 46 -
Our People Mentoring Mentees 18 -| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202147 |
Area Sub-area KPI 2021 2020
Our People Diversity and InclusionPermanent employees – split between  
women and men   M: 63% F: 37% M: 66% F: 34% 
Board of Directors – split between women and men  M: 43% F: 57% M: 43% F: 57% 
Gender split GAM overall   M: 63% F: 37% M: 66% F: 34% 
Line manager split   M: 71% F: 29% M: 69% F: 31% 
New joiner split  M: 61% F: 39% M: 58% F: 42% 
Leaver split  M: 71% F: 29% M: 59% F: 41% 
Our People Gender metricsPermanent employees M: 63% F: 37% M: 66% F: 34%
Joiners - permanent only M: 61% F: 39% M: 58% F: 42% 
Leavers - permanent only M: 71% F: 29% M: 59% F: 41% 
Our People New Hires and Turnover  Rate of hires  11.9% 13%
Voluntary turnover rate  18% 11%
Involuntary turnover rates  10% 15%
Retention within 12 months of starting  94% 93%
Our People Family Friendly and  
Flexible Working Family leave 384 weeks taken (51% of 
the population were male)
Our People VolunteeringVolunteering days 26% of employees -
Volunteering hours 1361.5 hours -
Our Community  Charitable Donations Total charitable donations  140,455 78,043 
Political Donations Political donations 0 0
Our Environment Environmental Indicators  Scope 1 & 2  
see page 33
Scope 3   
TCFD  Governance  # quarterly board meetings where climate-related issues 
raised  4
# hours climate training 2 hours
TCFD Metrics & Targets Carbon footprint metrics for aggregate equity
see page 38 & 39 - table 1-4Carbon footprint metrics for fixed income credit
Carbon footprint metrics for fixed income sovereign
Climate value at risk metrics for aggregate equity and fixed 
income credit
Appendix Health and Safety Incidents  No. of incidents in London, Cambridge, Dublin and Zurich London: 1 
Cambridge: 0 
Dublin: 0 
Zurich: 0London: 2 
Cambridge: 0 
Dublin: 1 
Zurich: 1
For more information, please visit GAM.com
Important legal information:
The information in this document is given for information purposes only and does not qualify as investment advice. Opinions and 
assessments contained in this document may change and reflect the point of view of GAM in the current economic environment. No 
liability shall be accepted for the accuracy and completeness of the information. Past performance is no indicator for the current or 
future development.| GAM Investments – Sustainability Report 202148 |
