JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLE’09Presented below is Sustainable Development Report of JSC Gazprom Neft for 2009. Since the year 2007, the Company 
has been annually summing up the results of this activity, informing the stakeholders of its priorities and achievements. This fourth release of the Report describes the Company’s efforts in achieving the sustainable development goals set in the corporate strategy. 
In this Report, such terms as JSC Gazprom Neft, Gazprom Neft, the Company, and the Group in various versions mean 
JSC Gazprom Neft and its affiliates and subsidiaries. The Report describes the financial standing and performance based on the consolidated data of JSC Gazprom Neft. The data describing the activities in the social sphere and labor relations, and environmental protection results, cover JSC Gazprom Neft and its affiliates and subsidiaries in Russia and the CIS, if not otherwise specified in the text. JSC GAZPROM NEFT SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 200923CONtENts
 5 1.  LEttER FROm thE ChaIRmaN 
OF thE maNaGEmENt BO aRd
 7 2. GazPROm NEFt IN 2009
 8 ABOUT ThE COMPANY
 12 KEY A ChIEvEMENTS OF 2009
 15 3.  ImPLEmENtatION OF thE sustaINaBLE dEvELOPmENt stRatEGY: CONsIstENCY aNd EFFICIENCY
 23 4.  sustaINaBLE dEvELOPmENt maNaGEmENt
 24  INTEGRATION OF ThE SUSTAINABLE  DEvELOPMENT PRINCIPLE INTO  ThE COMPANY’S PRACTICE
 25  CORPORATE GO vERNANCE AND OPERATIONS 
MANAGEMENT
 26  IMPLEMENTATION OF ThE SYSTEMIC  APPROACh TO MANAGEMENT
 26  INTERACTION wITh STAKEhOLDERS
 27 CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
 31  SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
 33 5.  REsOuRCEs FOR thE FutuRE: ECONOmIC dEvELOPmENt
 34  STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION:  GROwTh AND EFFICIENCY
 42 vECTOR OF INNO vATIvE DEvELOPMENT
 47 6.  humaN REsOuRCEs dEvELOPmENt 
aNd sOCIaL PROGRams
 48 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
 50 PERSONNEL ChARACTERISTICS
 51 PERSONNEL RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING
 52 MOTIv ATION AND w AGES
 54 COOPERATION wITh TRADE UNIONS
 54 SOCIAL PROGRAMS
 59 7. CONtRIButION tO REGIONaL dEvELOPmENt
 60 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
 60  REGIONAL COOPERATION AND SOCIAL  INvESTMENTS
 69 ChARITIY 71 8.  saFE dEvELOPmENt: INdustRIaL 
aNd ENvIRONmENtaL saFEtY,  OCCuP atIONaL hEaL th
 72 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
 73  OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh AND SAFETY
 76  INDUSTRIAL SAFETY
 77  REDUCTION OF ADvERSE ENvIRONMENTAL 
IMPACTS AND EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES
 84 9.  aPPENdIx 1. sELECtEd tERms 
aNd aBBREvIatIONs
 86 10. CONta Cts aNd FEEdBa CkJSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
5Dear colleagues,
In the year 2009, Gazprom Neft confirmed its reputation of a stable and efficient company once again. In a difficult 
financial and economic environment, the Company increased its oil production and refining outputs, and extended its 
assets in and outside Russia. Along with this, we strive to ensure the optimal balance of the economic, environmental, 
and social components of the Company’s activity, to generate an environment friendly for business and for development of our employees’ innovative potential, thus providing a stockpile for stable growth in the future. 
The sustainable development strategy is an integral part of the Company’s long-term strategy. Creating a firm basis 
for large-scale growth, for establishment of Gazprom Neft as a world class company, we consistently set and achieve 
targets both of financial and technological nature and those aimed at increasing the social capital and natural resources conservation. These targets are closely interrelated, for successful modernization is impossible without proper care of the Company’s human resources, and you cannot successfully compete on the world market today without improving 
your environmental safety. 
In 2009, our sustainable development activity was aimed at improving the quality and efficiency of the key social and 
environmental programs. Under the challenging economic conditions, we have learned to manage these programs better, to focus our resources on strategic sectors, and to set our priorities with regard to material issues of the day. 
Improvement of corporate governance, development and implementation of policies and standards relying on the best 
international and Russian practice in industrial safety, occupational health and environmental protection, as well as in human resources development and community investments – have raised this work to a higher level, enabling us to retain and develop programs important for our employees and social partners. 
Among the priorities of the year for the Company were improvement of the employee motivation and professional 
development system, social support to employees, involvement in the social and economic development of the regions where Gazprom Neft operates, and implementation of large-scale programs aimed at higher industrial and environmental safety. The innovative technological, social, and environmental initiatives of Gazprom Neft presented in 
this Report have become a material input to implementation of the Company’s long-term development strategy. Many 
of these initiatives have also won public recognition, receiving awards and prizes of governmental agencies and of public and professional organizations. 
In these efforts, Gazprom Neft actively cooperates with a broad range of stakeholders: the Government, shareholders, 
employees, users, and suppliers, as well as with local communities in the regions where the Company operates. we 
strive to build this interaction upon a basis of mutual trust and responsibility. The Company emphasizes the transparency of its activity. In 2009, the information disclosure quality of Gazprom Neft was recognized both in and outside Russia. The annual report of the Company was named the best in the non-financial sector by the results of the 11th annual 
competition of annual reports of the Expert RA rating agency. Gazprom Neft was also ranked first among global oil and 
gas industry companies for best financial disclosure procedures by the IR Global Rankings. 
The Company’s sustainability reports supplement its financial reporting, reflecting the balance of the financial, industrial, 
social, and environmental components of the Company’s activity. Oriented at the best international and Russian 
practice, Gazprom Neft has started implementation of the internationally recognized sustainability reporting guidelines. The dynamic growth of the Company, as well as the developments concerning its structure and business processes, requires careful adaptation of our sustainability reporting to the new conditions. we consider the 2009 Sustainable 
development report as a step in this direction. 
Presenting you this Report, I hope for constructive and concerned discussion of both our today’s performance and 
problems that have yet to be solved. I would also like to express my gratitude to all employees of the Company who took part in the preparation of this Report. 
Alexander Dyukov,
Chairman of the Management Board, Gazprom Neft ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLE2
GazPRO m NEF t  
IN 2009GAZPROM NEFT IN 2009 Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
8GazPROm NEFt  
IN 2009
GROwTh OF PRO vED OIL RESERvES: 
UP TO 2,200 MILLION TONS
GROwTh OF OIL PRODUCTION:  
UP TO 90–100 MILLION TOE A YEAR
GROwTh OF OIL REFINING  
OUTPUT: UP TO 70-80 MILLION  TONS A YEAR
GROwTh OF SALES OF hIGh ADDED 
vALUE OIL PRODUCTS: UP TO 40 
MILLION TONS A YEARProceeds, US$ millions 24 166
EBITDA, US$ millions 5 977
Oil and gas production, millions of barrels, oil equivalent  
(including the interest in subsidiaries assessed by the share  interest method) 369,8
Refining, millions of tons  (by corporate refineries, and subsidiary refineries included  by the share interest method) 33,4kEY FINaNCIaL aNd OPERatIONaL REsuL ts IN 2009*
* For more details of the financial and industrial results of the Company’s activity, see «JSC Gazprom Neft 
Annual Report for 2009»The Company’s core lines of business
 AOil and natural gas prospecting, 
development, production, and sales 
 AOil refining and marketing of petroleum products
stRatEGY
The strategy of JSC Gazprom Neft is oriented to increase the scale and expand the geography of the business, 
and to maintain and improve its 
efficiency. The goal of the Company’s long-term Development Strategy until 2020 is to establish Gazprom Neft as 
a global company of Russian origin 
efficiently competing on the worldwide oil and petroleum products markets. COmP aNY’s  
BusINEss  
GEOGRaPhY
The Company carries out its activities 
in Russia’s largest oil- and gas-bearing regions such as Khanty-Mansiysk 
Autonomous District, Yamalo-Nenets 
Autonomous District, Tomsk, Omsk and Tyumen Regions.
The Company’s major oil refining 
facilities are located in Moscow, the Omsk and Yaroslavl Regions. The Gazprom Neft’ distribution network operates countrywide. 
Gazprom Neft is strengthening its 
positions on international markets. The Company operates in Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and the Republic 
of Belarus. The Gazprom Neft assets outside Russia include companies in Serbia and Italy. The Company implements projects in the Middle East, 
Africa, and Latin America.Gazprom Neft, a subsidiary of JSC Gazprom, 
is one of Russia’s largest and fastest-growing oil and gas companies. Gazprom Neft is 
Russia’s fifth company by oil production 
level, and third, by the oil refining output. The Company’s proved hydrocarbon reserves by the SPE (PRMS) classification exceed 1  billion TOE, which positions the 
Company among the twenty world’s largest oil companies. The Company employs over 50 thousand people. 
stRatEGIC GO aLs  
OF JsC GazPROm NEFt  uNtIL 2020 2
aBOut thE COmP aNYJSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
9COmP aNY’s stRuCtuRE
PROduCtION OIL sERvICE aNd ExPLORatION maRkEtING
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Noyabrskneftegas
Gazprom Neft-Khantos LLC
Gazprom Neft-Vostok LLC
Archinskoye LLC
OJSC Meretoyakhaneftegaz
Sibneft-Yugra LLC
Severnaya Taiga – Neftegaz LLC
Zapolyarneft LLC
Gazprom Neft-Yamal LLC
Gazprom Neft-Angara LLC
Gazprom Neft-Sakhalin LLC
REFINING
Gazprom Neft-Nefteservice LLC
OJSC Gazprom Neft NNGF
Kapitalny Remont Skvazhin – Service LLC
Spetstransservice LLC 
Noyabrskneftegazsvyaz LLC
Noyabrskteploneft LLC
RMZ Gazprom Neft – Omsk Refinery LLC
Noyabrskneftespetsstroy LLC
Noyabrskenergoneft LLC
NoyabrskEPUService LLC
Service Drilling Company LLC
Neftekhimremont LLC
OOO YamalServiceTsentr (LLC)
Muravlenkovskaya Transportnaya 
Kompaniya LLC
Noyabrskneftegazproekt LLC
Yamalenergoremont LLC
Noyabrskneftegazavtomatika LLC
Avtomatika Service LLC
Servisnaya Transportnaya Kompaniya LLC
Noyabrskaya Tsentralnaya Trubnaya 
Baza LLC
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Omsk
CJSC Gazprom Neft-Kuzbass
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Altai
Gazprom Neft-Tsentr LLC
CJSC Munai-Myrza
Gazprom Neft Marine Bunker LLC
Gazprom Neft Asia LLC
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Tyumen
Gazprom Neft-Chelyabinsk LLC
Gazprom Neft-Krasnoyarsk LLC
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Ural
CJSC Gazprom Neft-Aero
CJSC Gazprom Neft-Aero
CJSC Gazprom Neft-Severo-Zapad
Gazprom Neft-Kaluga LLC
OJSC Sibneft-Yaroslavnefteproduct
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Novosibirsk
CJSC Gazprom Neft-Noyabrsk 
Gazprom Neft-Aero Murmansk LLC
Gazprom Neft-Kazakhstan LLP
Gazprom Neft-Tajikistan LLC
Alliance Oil Asia LLC
Gazprom Neft-Shipping LLC
Gazprom Neft-Resurs LLC
Gazprom Neft-Nizhniy Novgorod LLC
Gazprom Neft-Belnefteprodukt LLC
CJSC Gazprom Neft-Mobilnaya Karta
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Yaroslavl
OJSC Gazprom Neft-Omsk Refinery
Gazprom Neft-Lubricants LLC 
Gazprom Neft Lubricants Italia S.p.A.
OthER OPERatIONs
Gazprom Neftfinance LLC
Gazprom Neftenergo LLC
Gazprom Neft – ZS LLC
Gazprom Neft – NTTS LLC
Gazprom Neft – Invest LLC
Gazprom Neft Business Service LLC
CJSC Social and Business Center Okhta
Complex Galernaya 5 LLC
OJSC Moscow RefineryCRudE ExPORts
Gazprom Neft Trading Gmbh
Joint Ventures:
SlavneftTomskneft
Multibusiness Companies:
«Naftna Industrija Srbije» (NIS)Sibir Energy Plc.GazPROm NEFt10
Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLEGAZPROM NEFT IN 2009
REGIONs OF OPERatIONs OF JsC GazPROm NEFt
1 Pskov Region
2 Smolensk Region
3 Bryansk Region
4 Kursk Region
5 Oryol Region
6 Belgorod Region
7 Kaluga Region
8 Rostov Region
9 Krasnodar Krai
10 Stavropol Krai
11 Tver Region
12 Moscow and 
Moscow Region
13 Novgorod Region
14 Leningrad Region
15 Yaroslavl Region
16 vladimir Region
17 Ivanovo Region
18 Nizhny Novgorod Region
19 Republic of 
Mordovia
20 Tambov Region
21 Kostroma Region
22 vologda Region
23 Republic of Karelia
24 Murmansk Region
25 Archangelsk Region
26 Republic of 
Tatarstan
27 Nenets Autonomous Okrug 
28 Komi Republic 
29 Perm Region
30 Sverdlovsk Region
31 Chalyabinsk Region
32 Kurgan Region
33 Tyumen Region
34 Khanty-Mansi 
Autonomous Okrug
35 Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug
36 Omsk Region
37 Tomsk Region
38 Novosibirsk Region
39 Altai Krai
40 Altai Republic
41 Kemerovo Region
42 Republic of Khakassia
43 Krasnoyarsk Krai
44 Irkutsk Region
45 Republic of Buryatia
46 Chita Region47 Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) 
48 Amur Region
49 Jewish Autonomous Region
50 Primorsky Krai
51 Khabarovsk Krai
52 Sakhalin Region
53 Kaliningrad Region 
54 Belarus
55 Kazakhstan
56 Kyrgyzstan
57 Tadzhikistan
 GAZPROM NEFT 
MARINE BUNKER
BelarusSt.Petersburg
Murmansk Region
MoscowYaroslavl Region
Krasnodar Krai
Far East
 GAZPROM NEFT 
AERO
BelarusSt.Petersburg
Murmansk Region
MoscowTomsk Region
Novosibirsk Region
Krasnoyarsk Krai
Bryansk Region
Kemerovo Region
153
2
453
611
127
8
1091314
15
1617
18
19 2021222324
25
2627
28
29
30
5554
56
573132333435
3637
38
39
4041
4243
44
4547
48
49
505152
46JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
11
153
2
453
611
127
8
1091314
15
1617
18
19 2021222324
25
2627
28
29
30
5554
56
573132333435
3637
38
39
4041
4243
44
4547
48
49
505152
46GAZPROM NEFT IN 2009
122009 hIGhLIGhts
 ARetained leading positions in the Russian oil industry in terms of cost efficiency.
 AThe results of the Company’s operations exceeded the 2008 results for all the business lines. 
 AThe resource and production potential of oil production enhanced by consolidating the controlling 
interest in Sibir Energy. 
 AA new business line generated, i.e. gas production. It is intended to start gas supplies from the 
Company’s fields to the unified gas supply system in the fourth quarter of 2010. 
 AGeography of oil production expanded outside Russia due to new projects in the Middle East, Africa, 
and Latin America, and integration of the Serbian NIS. 
 AA lubrication oil factory in Italy purchased. The production of the first product under the brand of Gazprom Neft in Europe, Gazpromneft Super Oil ESX 10w-40 semi-synthetic motor oil, has started. 
 AThe Company’s oil refineries updating program launched.
 ACompletion of the first stage of the filling stations rebranding campaign that covered 387 filling stations of the Company.
 AA spatial visualization center opened at the Research and Technology Center of Gazprom Neft, using advanced technologies in geological and hydrodynamic modeling. In 2009, hydrodynamic modeling was applied to 60% of the Company’s oil fields. 
 AImplementation of an Integrated Risk Management System at the level of production units and subsidiaries and affiliates.
 ANew version of the Corporate Code of Ethics of Gazprom Neft developed. 
 AThe 2008 annual report of JSC Gazprom Neft recognized as the best in the non-financial sector by the results of the 11th annual competition of annual reports of the Expert RA rating agency.
 AGazprom Neft ranked first among global companies in Oil and Gas industry for «Best Financial Disclosure Procedures» by IR Global Rankings, and joined the Top Five European companies in 
terms of financial disclosure.
 Awage cost growth: 13.5%.
 A244 billion rubles transferred to the State as taxes and customs duties . 
 AGeneral Agreements for cooperation signed with Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District, Khanty-
Mansiysk Autonomous District, Omsk, Leningrad and Murmansk Regions, and 13 agreements for social and economic cooperation with municipal entities. Under these agreements, the Company invested about 850 million rubles in the regions’ social development programs in 2009. 
 AUnder these agreements, the Company invested about 850 million rubles in the regions’ social 
development programs in 2009. 
 ALaunch of large-scale projects for more efficient utilization of associated petroleum gas: first stage 
of the Yuzhno-Priobskaya gas turbine powerplant, and gas supplies from the Ety -Purovskoye field to 
SiburTyumenGaz via a new pipeline.
 AImplementation of the land reclamation program in an area of 148 ha. 
1 Less refunded export v AT.Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLEENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLEImPLEmENtatION 
OF thE 
susta INaBLE 
dEvELOP mENt 
stRatEGY316The Company’s sustainable development strategy is integrated into the long-term corporate strategy aimed at establishing 
Gazprom Neft as a world leader in the industry. The targets of medium-term sustainable development activity are determined by the Company’s objectives for the period of 2008-2010 when a firm basis for future fundamental growth is to be created. 
The table below presents consistent efforts of Gazprom Neft to achieve its sustainable development goals set for this period. IMPLEMENTATION OF ThE SUSTAINABLE 
DEvELOPMENT STRATEGY
ImPLEmENtatION 
OF thE sustaINaBLE dEvELOPmENt stRatEGY: CONsIstENCY aNd EFFICIENCY 3
MeDiuM-terM 
sustainable DevelopMent targets  (2008–2010) iMpleMentation
2008 2009
sustainable DevelopMent ManageMent
Development 
and approval of key sustainable development codes and policies, and their implementation at all of the Company’s facilities The Project Management Policy, Strategic Planning Policy, Risk Management Policy, Document Management Policy, Information Safety Policy, Information Technology Policy, Occupational health, Safety, and Environmental Protection Policy, and Charity Policy were adopted. The new version of the Corporate Code of Ethics of JSC Gazprom Neft developed. 
A set of corporate standards regulating activities in risk 
management, personnel management, occupational health 
and safety, and environmental protection was adopted. They are being implemented across the Company’s facilities.
Development of the Integrated Risk Management System The Risk Management Policy was adopted. An Integrated Risk Management System (IRMS) was developed.The Integrated Risk Management System was implemented in 24 subsidiaries and affiliates. Essential business risks are identified and assessed, and actions for their management are being developed and implemented. 
Improvement of the quantitative sustainable development data collection, analysis and monitoring systemActive expansion of the Company and implementation of restructuring programs required a revision of the reporting perimeter. The pilot project «Sustainable Development Activity Review» was implemented using a limited number of key performance indicators in this activity. Generation of reporting describing the implementation of the key medium-term targets on the basis of a reporting structure complying with international principles of sustainability reporting, and a set of selected performance indicators. Adaptation of the data collection and consolidation system to the Company’s new structure with regard to development of globally recognized sustainability reporting guidelines in the oil industry.Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE17MeDiuM-terM 
sustainable DevelopMent 
targets  
(2008–2010) iMpleMentation
2008 2009
Systemization 
of dialogue with 
stakeholders Participation of the Company’s management and 
specialists in business and research/practice 
conferences.
Regular meetings of management and employees 
Research identifying the most material issues of 
interaction of the Company and its employees.
Development of media communication channels. 
Launch of the Neftegazeta, a new corporate newspaper.
Adoption of an internal communications 
development strategy for up to 2015. Creating of a structural unit in the Company responsible for 
investor relations.
Establishment of a Coordination Center for dealing with trade 
unions and labor collectives of JSC Gazprom Neft. 
Preparation and signing of a package of agreements for 
social/economic cooperation with regions.
Implementation of the public hearing practice.Implementation of a systemic approach to internal 
communications development. Adoption of a long-term External Communication Policy. 
Expansion of the package of corporate communications 
channels. Development of corporate media contents with 
regard to information requests of the audience and feedback 
mechanisms. Regular publication of interviews with the 
Company’s management. 
Publishing of 
sustainable 
development activity 
reviews with regard to stakeholders’ requests The «Sustainable Development Report of Gazprom 
Neft for 2007» issued in 2008 was entered on 
the National Register of Non-financial Corporate 
Reports of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Stakeholders’ comments on the document were considered in the preparation of the Company’s Sustainable Development Review issued in 2009.A review of the Company’s sustainable development activity 
for 2008-2009 published with regard to stakeholders’ 
requests. 
The concept and content structure of the Gazprom Neft 
Sustainable Development Report for 2009 developed with regard to the Company’s expanded geography and implementation of structural optimization projects.
econoMic DevelopMent 
Oil production 
increase due to development of discovered oil fields, higher oil recovery ratio in the fields under development, and purchase of new subsurface resources sites and new assets The challenging economic situation dictated some reduction in the investments in oil field development and optimization. Oil production was increased in such oil fields of the Company as Priobskoye and some fields in the Tomsk and Omsk Regions. This enabled to compensate for adverse trends in oil production to some extent.Recovery of an oil and gas production growth. 
Acquisition of new assets (consolidating the controlling 
interest in Sibir Energy and integration of NIS, Serbia).
Active development of oil fields, finding additional reserves 
for oil recovery in assets with dropping production, and 
structural and organizational reforms of the producing 
assets.
Further integration and improvement of competitiveness of the oil service sector Gazpromneft-Nefteservis, a united service operator, one of the largest in the Russian oil and gas sector, was established.A quality management system in compliance with ISO 9000 international standards implemented at all the Gazpromneft-Nefteservis facilities.
well construction time reduced by 15%.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
18IMPLEMENTATION OF ThE SUSTAINABLE 
DEvELOPMENT STRATEGY
MeDiuM-terM 
sustainable DevelopMent 
targets  
(2008–2010) iMpleMentation
2008 2009
Expansion and 
development of the Company’s retail sector The number of filling stations (own, leased and franchised) increased from 782 in 2007 to 865 in 2008. By the end of 2009, the Company’s network included 950 filling/service stations.
Implementation of uniform customer service standards.The program of the Company’s retail brand creation 
scheduled for 2009-2011. 387 filling stations were rebranded 
in 2009.
Progress of the Research and 
Development 
Center on the basis 
of the Company’s 
Research & Analysis 
Department and 
implementation 
of the respective investment program Gazpromneft - Research and Development Center 
(Gazpromneft NTC) runs several programs covering 
the entire oil prospecting and production cycle. Gazpromneft NTC provides the full range of work for oil and 
gas exploration, development and production. 
Development of a concept for intellectual activity and 
innovative development protection. 
The Spatial visualization Center opened in St. Petersburg.
Jointly with personnel of the Information Technologies, 
Automation and Telecommunication Department, new solutions tested for setting up Data Processing Centers and generation of a highly efficient IT infrastructure. 
Creation of the Exploration Block. 
 higher oil 
conversion rate, and switchover to new motor fuel quality standards Development of a quality improvement program for the Gazpromneft-ONPZ fuels aimed at compliance of their production with the requirements of the Technical Regulation «Requirements for motor gasoline and aviation gasoline, diesel and marine fuel, reactive engine fuel, and residual oil».The proportion of high octane gasolines in the overall gasoline output was 84%, i.e. 5% higher than in 2008. The average conversion rate was 80% (3% growth), and at Gazpromneft-ONPZ, 86%.
Updating of the hydro cleaning plants for diesel oils 24/6 and 
24/9 completed at Gazpromneft-ONPZ, which will enable switching over to production of diesel oil to standards of Class 4 and Class 5. 
The construction of the Isomalk-2 isomerization unit was 
started, which will enable an increase of motor gasolines output, while bringing their quality up to compliance with the 
requirements of Class 4 and Class 5. 
personnel DevelopMent, anD social support to eMployees 
Implementation of 
the key performance 
indicators system; 
building a system 
of qualification 
levels (‘grades») 
and the related 
compensations and 
benefits scheme 
linked to it A Target Management System was implemented. 
Involved in the program were 550 managers of 
the Corporate headquarters and subsidiaries and 
affiliates. Implementation of the grade system 
started: pilot projects. The Corporate headquarters 
grade system was implemented.The Company’s general personnel strategy was developed 
and approved, determining the key priorities and 
development pines of personnel management. 
Implementation of the grade system in subsidiaries and 
affiliates: appraisal and assigning grades to top managers in all subsidiaries and affiliates. The grade system was completely implemented in nine subsidiaries and affiliates.
Development of the Company standards in personnel 
motivation and social support management. 
Implementation of the key performance indicators system.
Definition of common 
approaches to the social package content, and leveling of social support at enterprises Implementation scheduled for 2009 Development of a uniform concept of social benefits in the Gazprom Neft Group started, with regard to the market practice.
Development of a uniform collective bargaining pattern.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
19MeDiuM-terM sustainable DevelopMent 
targets  
(2008–2010) iMpleMentation
2008 2009
Generation of 
a common corporate 
culture; higher 
personnel loyalty and 
motivation Implementation of elements of a common integrated 
corporate culture started in the Company. 
Transmission of the Company’s business targets and 
values via the Target Management system.
Corporate events held in all structural units. An internal communications strategy was adopted and is 
being implemented. 
The Company’s standards in personnel motivation and 
social security were developed, which formed a procedural 
and regulatory basis for a uniform wage and social benefits 
management system. 
A program of management and employees information 
about the career growth philosophy and opportunities in the 
Company is being implemented
higher transparency of the compensation philosophy.Corporate events.
Attracting graduates/
young professionals, 
broader cooperation with universities and vocational colleges 378 graduates were recruited by subsidiaries and 
affiliates.Development of cooperation with universities, strategic partners of the Company. 
Jointly with the G. v. Plekhanov Saint-Petersburg State 
Mining University in, academic competitions were arranged for school leavers in cities of the Company presence (Noyabrsk, Omsk) to select winners and accept them to the Institute. 
Field practice was arranged for students of partner 
universities at the enterprises. 
Gazpromneft-NTC came to agreement with I. M. Gubkin 
Russian State University of Oil and Gas about establishing a base subdepartment.
305 graduates became the Company’s employees. 
Establishment 
and development of corporate training centers; enhancement of programs of professional training 
and organizational/
managerial skills development Standardized processes developed in such areas as «Planning and training of personnel reserve for target positions», «Young professionals management», «Personnel training procedure.» 
The Company’s executive reserve was built. 1290 persons were trained. 642 persons were trained in 
corporate managerial competencies development trainings, which is five times more than in 2008.
Modular programs generated for development of the 
managerial potential of Gazprom Neft employees and 
managers of various levels. 
Development of a professional competencies system by 
business function, including result assessment. 
contribution to region DevelopMent
Fulfillment of the 
terms of existing cooperation agreements with the regions of operations and further development of partnershipContinued cooperation with priority regions of the Company’s operations. Retaining all the basic social programs in the difficult economic environment.work on the Regional Policy Concept of JSC Gazprom Neft 
started. 
Preparation of the standard «Procedure of preparation and 
signing of social and economic agreements.» (Adopted in 
February 2010 and recommended for use in subsidiaries 
and affiliates.)
Cooperation with all the priority regions of the Company’s 
presence and expansion of regional cooperation was continued; social/economic agreements with the Leningrad and Murmansk Regions were signed for the first time.
Optimization of charity expenses with regard to strategic programs emphasized in the Charity Policyhigher funding of social support programs for orphanages, schools, boarding schools, and cultural institutions. 
Development of approaches to improvement of 
charity programs efficiency.Approval of the «Charity Procedure» corporate standard.
Charity optimization: development of priority sectors of 
charities. Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
20IMPLEMENTATION OF ThE SUSTAINABLE 
DEvELOPMENT STRATEGY
MeDiuM-terM 
sustainable DevelopMent 
targets  
(2008–2010) iMpleMentation
2008 2009
safe DevelopMent: HealtH, s afety, anD environMent 
Implementation of 
the Occupational 
health, Safety 
and Environment 
Policy, and building 
an integrated 
management system 
for its fulfillment The JSC Gazprom Neft health, Safety and 
Environment Policy approved.
A strategy for implementation of the integrated 
the Integrated health, Safety, Environment and 
Civil Protection Management System developed 
to comply with the basic recommendations of the 
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers 
and requirements of the ISO 9000, 14001, OhSAS 
18001 international standards. 
The Azimuth information and management system 
was developed and implemented, enabling integration of all gained industrial safety data, automation and standardization of managerial reporting, orientation of accident investigation at identifying the key origins, and current situation analysis. 
Accident recording discipline, accident information 
transparency, and information exchange speed were improved.Generation and implementation of a package of standards 
as a regulatory and procedural basis for implementation 
of the corporate Occupational Safety, health, and 
Environmental Protection Policy, and implementation of the 
Integrated health, Safety, Environment and Civil Protection 
Management System. 
Analysis of accident origins and dynamics.Over 700 managers and specialists of the Company 
attended environmental legislation training. 
higher personnel 
competence in health, Safety, Environment and Civil ProtectionCorporate guidelines on personnel health, Safety, Environment and Civil Protection training were developed and approved.
Personnel training in application of the Company’s 
standards in the area of health, Safety, Environment and Civil Protection was started. 
health, Safety, Environment and Civil Protection 
Department specialists, and instructors of specialist companies trained about 1,000 persons in the most important production areas.Establishment of the function of internal instructors: 122 instructors trained, of which, 58 in safe driving and 64, in health, Safety, Environment and Civil Protection programs.
Internal instructors trained 14,050 employees of subsidiaries 
and affiliates, of which 7013 in protective driving и 7037 in corporate hSE programs. 
57 exercises conducted in order to ensure efficient response 
to emergency situations.
Up-to-date individual protective gear for personnel Switchover to new types of up-to-date individual protective gear (IPG) started. Approval of the standard «Procedure of IPG issue to personnel». 
Industrial testing of samples of overalls, protective footwear, 
and individual protective gear arranged and conducted.
The catalog IPG authorized for purchase generated. New Specifications for working clothes developed and 
approved.
Complete switchover to purchasing of IPG complying with 
the new Specification and the corporate style.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
21MeDiuM-terM sustainable DevelopMent 
targets  
(2008–2010) iMpleMentation
2008 2009
higher safety of 
truck shipping A truck simulator was purchased for training and certification of drivers under conditions maximum close to various emergency situations on the road.The corporate standard providing for automotive transport safety is being implemented.
Drivers’ training arranged and completed; internal instructors 
prepared.
Any road accidents are subjected to internal investigation; 
based on its results, information is exchanged between 
subsidiaries and affiliates.
Reduction of 
personnel injuries 
and adverse environmental impacts The accident information transparency rate 
increased by 40% compared to 2007, reaching 
the level of performance of the world’s leading oil companies. 
Faster injury reporting (information on 97% of 
accidents was received within 24 hours).
Occupational health costs per Company worker 
were increased nearly twofold (from 6,000 to 12,000 rubles.)Development of primary standards; collection and analysis 
of statistical data related to occupational injuries. 
Implementation of an internal investigation system enabling 
identification of cause-effect relations and systemic origins of accidents. 
Development and implementation of corrective action, 
resulting in a noticeable reduction in fatal cases.
Several actions were completed aimed at lower adverse 
environmental impacts. The most important of these was approval and implementation of the sludge pits and contaminated land remediation program.
The process condensate treatment module was updated 
at the catalytic cracking plant in Gazpromneft-ONPZ; as a result, the industrial effluent quality was greatly improved. 
Greenhouse gas inventoryGreenhouse gas inventory is a component of the Company’s atmospheric air protection program. Continuous atmospheric air status monitoring; development of standards for maximum permissible pollutant emission rates. 
Actions to reduce the specific and absolute values of harmful 
emissions are being developed and implemented.
higher level of associated gas utilization A Medium-Term Investment Program for Associated Gas utilization and higher efficiency use (MTIP) for 2008-2010 was adopted.The associated gas utilization rate increased from с 37.5% in 2007 to 48.1% in 2009.
On the basis of MTIP, an updated Gas Program was 
prepared, where the key investment projects are construction of a gas collection system, power generation, organization of an associated gas metering system, and disposition of low-pressure gas. 
The pipeline from the Ety-Purovskoye oil field, and the 
first stage of the gas turbine powerplant in the Southern license part of Priobskoye oil field were built and started up. Designing of the Shinginskoye oil field gas line started. 
Design of the automatic associated gas metering system 
completed.ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLEsusta INaBLE 
dEvELOP mENt 
maNaGEmENt 4ОАО «ГАЗПРОМ НЕФТЬ» 
В СИСТЕМЕ РОССИЙСКОГО ЭКСПОРТА НЕФТИ, 2007 ГОД (%)
15 Прочие
0 Операторы2 Руснефть0 Газпром
20 Роснефть
2 Башнефть7 Газпром нефть6 Газпром
17 Руснефть 
15 Сургутнефтегаз
16 ЛукоилEconomic development 
of the Company
Contribution to regional 
development
Personnel development 
and support
Safe DevelopmentCOMPANY'S MANAGEMENT SYSTEMSuppliers Employees ClientsAuthorities
and investorsShareholderscommunities
Local
 and mediaPublic organizations
INtEGRatION  
OF thE sustaINaBLE 
dEvELOPmENt  
PRINCIPLE INtO thE COmP aNY’s PRa CtICE 
The most important clusters of 
sustainable development goals meeting the Company’s long-term 
strategy as well as the key areas of 
interaction with stakeholders were outlined in 2007.The sustainable development principle 
suggests that today’s prosperity should not be achieved at the expense of prosperity of generations to come, or undermine the long-term development potential. This principle reflects the idea of corporate social responsibility as recognized by the international and Russian business community. It is set forth in documents of the UN and influential business associations, including those in the oil and gas sector, and in documents of the national business community such as the «Social Charter of Russian Business».    
24SUSTAINABLE DEvELOPMENT  
MANAGEMENT
sustaINaBLE  
dEvELOPmENt  maNaGEmENt
The difficult economic situation of the last 
two years has shown too evidently the vital importance of the sustainable development 
principle, which is embodied in the well-
considered financial and investment policy, and balance between the Company’s business performance and societal impacts. 
The Company’s commitment to this principle 
has helped to minimize the adverse effects of the unfavorable market conditions on its development. 
Implementation of the sustainable 
development principle is ensured by the Company management system. 
Basic sustainable development goals clusters and key areas of interaction with stakeholders (For details, see Sustainable Development Report of JSC Gazprom Neft for 2007.)4Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLEJSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
25The translation of the notion «sustainable 
development» into the language of practical management suggests 
 Abalanced financial, industrial, social and environmental components of the Company’s activity
 Asystemic approach to risk management, with non-financial risks included in the corporate risk management system
 Aconsidering interests of a broad range of stakeholders, and development of mechanisms enabling dialogue and constructive interaction with them in handling problems material for the Company and society.
The medium-term sustainable 
development goals (2008–2010) are linked to the benchmarks set for the 
respective phase of implementation of 
the corporate Strategy of Development until 2020. This phase results should provide a platform for future large-
scale growth of Gazprom Neft, and its 
establishment as a leading global oil company. Table 1 shows the stage-by-stage advance of the Company in sustainability area (see p. 16–21 of this 
Report). 
Gazprom Neft consistently works 
on implementation of the systemic 
approach to management of 
sustainable development factors, and to integrated non-financial reporting. Today, it can be said that sustainable development management in general 
is built into the system of corporate and 
strategic governance and operations management.  CORPORatE 
GOvERNaNCE 
aNd OPERatIONs maNaGEmENt 
The establishment of Gazprom Neft as 
a leading global oil company suggests a high level of corporate governance. 
The Company is consistently guided 
by the international principles and standards and the best world practice in this area, ensuring the shareholders’ 
rights, high quality of managerial 
decisions and efficient business. The Gazprom Neft management system is built in compliance with applicable Russian laws, the Charter and internal 
documents of the Company, and 
provisions of the Corporate Governance Code recommended for use by the Federal Commission for the Securities 
Market. Gazprom Neft pays most 
serious attention to the improvement of the corporate governance system, being aimed at the growth of the Company’s equity value and 
improvement of its economic and social 
efficiency, and environmental safety. 
The General Shareholders Meeting 
is the superior controlling body of the 
Company. In accordance with the Charter, the General Shareholders Meeting elects the Board of Directors. The professional skills and experience 
of the Directors ensure efficient 
operation of the Board. The Board of Directors runs two committees, the Audit Committee and the Personnel and Compensations Committee. 
The executive bodies of JSC Gazprom 
Neft responsible for implementation of the Company’s goals, strategy, and policy, are Management Board 
(collegial executive body) and Chief 
Executive Officer (sole executive body), who is the Chairman of the Management Board of the Company
1.
Gazprom Neft is striving for a high 
level of transparency of its activities. 
The Company publishes its financial reporting to international standards, management reporting, and sustainable 
development reports. Information on 
the corporate governance structure, principles of formation of the Company’s governing bodies, and principles of compensation to members 
of the Board of Directors is disclosed 
in Annual Reports of JSC Gazprom Neft presented to the Company’s shareholders and placed on the official 
corporate website, opening access to 
this data for all stakeholders and the general public
2. 
The Annual report of JSC Gazprom 
Neft for 2008 was highly appreciated by experts, and won several prestigious awards at once. It was recognized as the best in the non-financial sector by the results of the XI Annual Reports Contest organized by the Expert RA Rating Agency, and won in the nomination for «Best annual report of the North-Western Federal District» of the 12th 
1 For more details of the corporate governance system of JSC Gazprom Neft, the structure of the Company’s 
governing bodies, and their activity in 2009, see the Annual Report of JSC Gazprom Neft for 2009.
2 http://ir.gazprom-neft.ru/corporate-governance/.Annual Report Contest sponsored by 
the RTS Stock Exchange. By the results of that contest, it also became No. 3 in the nomination for «Best Information Disclosure in the Annual Report by Companies with a Capitalization of over 100 Billion Rubles».
Gazprom Neft was ranked first among 
global companies of Oil and Gas industry for best financial disclosure procedures by IR Global Rankings. The Company competed in four nominations of the rating, «Best Website for Investors», «Online Annual Report», «Investors’ Choice» and «Financial Disclosure». Besides, Gazprom Neft entered the European Top 5 in financial information disclosure.
The sustainable development matters 
are continuously in sight of the Company’s Board of Directors and 
Management Board, which generated 
the strategy in this area and monitor its implementation. Gazprom Neft has developed and applies corporate 
policies in industrial safety, personnel 
potential development, environmental protection, and social/economic cooperation with regions that are guided by international principles and best 
practice
1. These documents provide 
a common ideology and procedural 
basis for operation of the respective 
functional units responsible for 
implementation of the general corporate strategy in their sector.  
ImPLEmENtatION  
OF thE sYstEmIC 
aPPRO aCh tO 
maNaGEmENt 
In 2009, Gazprom Neft continued 
improving the Company management in order to ensure further improvement 
of its long-term competitiveness and 
operating efficiency, and to strengthen its sustainability under changing market conditions, flexibly responding 
to requests by business and social 
partners.
A new version of Gazprom Neft 
Corporate Code oriented at the 
approaches outlined in the Corporate Code of the Federal Financial Markets 
Service was reviewed by the Company’s Board of Directors and recommended 
for the General Shareholders Meeting’s 
approval. 
The Company believes in a systemic 
approach to generation of its strategic 
development concept. In 2009, the Board of Directors approved the Exploration and Production Block Strategy of JSC Gazprom Neft until 
2020, Oil Refining Strategy of JSC 
Gazprom Neft until 2020, and the Oil Product Distribution Strategy of JSC Gazprom Neft until 2020. The Board 
of Directors also reviewed, and later 
approved the Strategy of JSC Gazprom Neft until 2020. Gradual transition to an integrated system of long-term strategy development and defence of medium-
term business plans is underway. 
Important corporate governance 
initiatives of 2009 were the projects of 
building an efficient system of internal 
audit function development and implementation of the integrated risk management system. 
The Integrated Risk Management 
System (IRMS) was developed and is being integrated by the Company. The risk management policy and the standard «Integrated Risk Management System» were approved, the IRMS procedural documents were developed, and the Company’s risks identified. A risk card was developed for each risk, with actions for its management identified. The Company’s Management Board defined the IRMS implementation perimeter for 2009-2010. It comprises clusters and units of the Corporate Headquarters and 34 subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company. In 2009, actions for IRMS implementation were carried out at 20 subsidiaries and affiliates of Gazprom Neft.  
 The IRMS implementation provides personnel training, joint identification, analysis and evaluation of risks by their potential damage and probability of occurrence, and development of actions for their management. An IRMS information site is provided on the Company’s internal web portal, which includes a remote online training course. This course will enable newcomers to get the necessary knowledge and practical skills of risk management in a short time. A project of implementation of a specialized IT system is being utilized to enable automation of the basic phases of the risk management process, and to generate a uniform corporate risk database. The system will cover all the subsidiaries and affiliates comprised in the implementation perimeter, and the Corporate Headquarters.
In 2009, the Company was undergoing 
structural reforms aimed at higher stability and efficiency of its business. 
Affiliation of new assets and expansion 
of the business scale and geography required new approaches to management, i.e. higher responsibility 
of divisions for their results, higher 
manageability by reducing the management levels, elimination of duplicated functions of the Corporate headquarters and subsidiaries and 
affiliates, and changeover to the 
process management philosophy.  
INtERa CtION wIth 
stakEhOLdERs 
The expansion of the Company, and a breakthrough in its operation level require a new quality of stakeholder 
engagement. In 2009, Gazprom Neft 
developed the stakeholder engagement practice both on the basis of the existing approaches that have shown 
their efficiency and by implementing 
new engagement mechanisms. For instance, the Investor Relations Department established within the Company’s structure provides for higher 
quality of interaction with the investor 
community. 
Gazprom Neft as one of the largest 
Russian oil companies sees its 
duty in constructive interaction with the government in the key areas of national social and economic development and of the oil and gas 
sector development. The Company 
takes part in the implementation of large-scale infrastructure projects. In 2009, Gazprom Neft entered into an 
agreement with the Russian Federation 
Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation on cooperation in production and application of new generation SUSTAINABLE DEvELOPMENT  
MANAGEMENT
26Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
1 For more details see the respective sections of this Report. 27In February 2010 the President of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev visited 
«Gazpromneft-ONPZ» during his official tour to the Siberian Federal District. In the course of the visit the Chairman of Management Board JCS Gazprom neft Alexander Djukov presented the strategy of Gazpromneft-ONPZ, one of the largest 
Russian oil refining factories.road petroleum asphalts. Under this 
agreement, Gazprom Neft, on the basis of its oil refining assets is setting up full-scale production of new polymeric 
bituminous binders that will considerably 
increase the service life of roads, and provide tangible reduction in repair expenses. 
The Company contributes to innovative 
development of the Russian oil sector. One of the new developments is the Iskender Program and Industrial 
Complex developed for Gazprom Neft 
by the specialists of Sarov’s Oil and Gas Scientific and Production Center. The system was highly appreciated by the President of the Russian 
Federation Dmitry Medvedev in course 
of a meeting of the Commission for the Russian Economic Modernization and Technological Development. 
The Company’s specialists jointly 
with representatives of governmental agencies and of other largest Russian companies contribute to the activities 
of expert organizations
1 developing 
approaches to problems related to 
sustainable development, such as 
resources conservation, generation 
of a civilized gas market, industry regulation issues, and other strategic matters. 
Cooperation with trade unions 
reached a new level. In 2009, by the initiative of trade union organizations of the subsidiaries and affiliates 
and the Company’s Management, 
a Coordination Council for dealing with trade unions and labor collectives of JSC Gazprom Neft was established. 
The Council coordinates, on the 
corporation level, interaction with trade unions and employees’ representatives in matters of social partnership and social protection of employees. 
The practice of cooperation with regions 
on the basis of Social and Economic Cooperation Agreements was 
developed. Such form of stakeholder 
involvement in the discussion of the Company’s projects as public hearings also proved to be efficient. In 2009, hearing was held in relation to the 
project of associated gas recovery at 
the Ety-Purovskoye oil field. Gazprom Neft is committed to the philosophy of transparency and openness in its dealing with suppliers. The Company uses an open bidding 
purchase system. All information on 
tenders to be held and forthcoming purchases is placed on the Company’s official website (http://www.gazprom-neft.ru/tender/), in printed media and 
on industrial websites. Any potential 
supplier registered on the Gazprom Neft website will automatically receive online notifications on the forthcoming 
tenders at its email address. Thus, 
the system ensures equal access to product and service purchase information for market players. Besides, Gazprom Neft is a sponsor of the 
information web resource «Russian 
Oil and Gas Equipment and Services» (www.prom-oil.ru) which presents information on well-proven equipment manufacturers and suppliers, aftersale service contractors and publishes 
advertisements of purchases by oil and 
gas companies.  
CORPORatE 
COmmuNIC atIONs 
Corporate communications play 
an important role in the Company management system. This role 
becomes especially noticeable in 
periods of dynamic changes. Timely information about the Company’s strategy, current activities and its 
approaches to handling problems that 
concern people, is necessary to create an environment of trust, constructive and efficient interaction vitally important JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
1 National Association for Subsoil Auditing, Russian Gas Society, Association of Petroleum Processors and 
Petrochemists, Union of Oil Exporters of Russia (SONEK) etc.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
29for innovative initiatives generation, 
higher efficiency of all business processes and loyalty of employees. Corporate communications provide 
feedback mechanisms, supplementing 
formal administrative channels and ensuring timely response to material challenges. 
In 2009, the Company’s Management 
Board approved the long-term External Communications Policy of JSC Gazprom Neft for 2010-2020, 
which is coordinated with the Gazprom 
Neft long-term development strategy and provides guidelines for external communication and information activities of all structural units and 
subsidiaries and affiliates. The main goal 
of these activities is to ensure efficient communication with stakeholders, which would promote a high level of 
confidence in the Company. 
The communications policy suggests 
regular identification of information requests from stakeholders, 
development of the communication 
channels system including feedback and direct dialog channels, reputation risk management mechanisms, and 
appraisal of efficiency of external 
communications. 
In the development of the Policy, media 
research and expert interviews were 
carried out, which enabled identification 
of the most important topics for interaction with stakeholders. Among these topics are:
 Ainvolvement of the Company in handling of national social and economic problems; interaction with the Government 
 Athe Company’s development strategy 
and risk management 
 Acorporate governance practice
 Aefficient business under the world 
economic recession and dropping 
energy prices
 Atechnological advance of the 
Company; implementation of innovations 
 Aproduct quality and customer 
relations practice 
 Athe Company’s retail policy
 Athe Company as an employer: 
approaches to personnel motivation 
and compensation, and career 
prospects
 Apersonnel development and occupational safety  Aapproach to environmental protection 
 Athe Company’ s input to the development of regions and territories 
 Acharity policy. 
For continuous coverage of these topics, the Company uses a broad range of communication channels.
In 2009, Gazprom Neft carried out 
the implementation of the internal communications strategy for a period till 2015 adopted in 2008. 
The Company owns a package of 
corporate media comprising of printed periodicals and their web analogues, the Sibirskaya Neft magazine and the 
corporate Neftegazeta newspaper. 
The Company’s employees are very instrumental in generation of their content; the editors make regular polls 
and analyze numerous letters from 
readers and responses to particular articles. Responding to wishes of their audiences, in 2009 the corporate media began to regularly publish interviews of the Company top-managers addressing the on-going activities, business results and prospects of the Company and 
its particular divisions. The corporate 
media create a common information space of the Company. Irrespective of the geography and occupation, be it work at a production facility or 
in the Corporate headquarters, each 
employee can get actual information on events related to the Company. 
The internal communications system 
includes also meetings of employees and managers, corporate events, and newcomers adaptation programs. Further development of the internal 
communications system is designed 
to increase the level of employees’ self-identification as members of the Gazprom Neft team, and to achieve 
a high degree of compliance of their 
motivation and behavior with the Company’s corporate culture, thus disposing them to efficiently and 
MEDIA CHANNELS
THE COMPANY’S WEBSITECORPORATE REPORTING
CONFERENCES AND ROUND TABLES
CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONSCORPORATE EVENTS AND 
PRESENTATIONS
PUBLIC EVENTSPARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC AND 
PARLIAMENT HEARINGS, JOINT PANELS...)
BULLETINS, INFORMATION MATERIALS
DIRECT MAILBLOGS, FORUMS.
Development of a set 
of channels of internal communications Active application of advanced communication technologiesFine tuning of the internal communications system for handling business problems; performance appraisal based on criteria linked to business results 
Development of the quality content of internal communications with regard to the Company’s strategic priorities and stakeholders’ information requests.dEvELOPmENt OF INtERNaL COmmuNIC atIONs:  
FROm tOOLs tO REsuL tsСORPORatE COmmuNIC atION ChaNNELsJSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
31creatively contribute to common 
success. 
The creation and promotion of 
the corporate brand has become 
a major component of the Company’s communication activity. The integrated process of the new brand creation started in 2007. The main goal of 
the project was to provide a clear, 
consistent, and positive image of Gazprom Neft as an up-to-date, dynamically growing, and highly 
efficient company. The rebranding 
program covered the structural units of the Corporate headquarters and subsidiaries and affiliates. By the end of 2008, the program was successfully 
completed. 
In 2009, the «Gazpromneft» retail 
brand project was launched. Creating 
the new brand, the specialists of 
the Company intended to retain and enhance the powerful positive potential of the Gazprom brand, associated with a large scale, stability, and social 
responsibility. At the same time, the 
new retail brand was required to deliver the specific features, the unique «promise» of the «Gazpromneft» retail 
brand to the customers. The impressive 
visual solution of the brand makes it recognizable and enables to effectively convey the "promise" – reliability, security, quality assurance, up-to-
dateness, friendliness, and accessibility. 
Considering the Company’s ambitious 
plans to expand of the filling stations 
network and the brand development, 
it is extremely important to ensure the brand’s integrity in all of its manifestations. For this purpose, the Corporate Communications Department 
developed a Corporate Style Book 
for the Gazprom neft filling stations network which serves as a manual for the personnel of the Company and 
its sales subsidiaries. The Corporate 
Style Book systematically covers the components of visual identification of the new retail brand, with graphic and text recommendations for their 
application on various carriers. (See 
more about this project in the chapter «Resources for the Future: Economic Development».)sustaINaBILItY 
REPORtING
This Sustainable Development Report 
of JSC Gazprom Neft continues the program of non-financial reporting in 
the Company which started in 2007. 
The program suggests stage-by-stage implementation of internationally recognized sustainability reporting 
approaches and guidelines. It is also 
informed by the corporate business strategy, and the management systems development. The first publication under this program titled «Social horizons: 
A Review of Gazprom Neft Social 
Programs», included a few selected standard reporting components as presented by GRI-G3 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines. The sustainable 
development report for 2007 became the first to disclose the full set of standard indicators provided by the GRI-G3. 
In the next phase, in 2008 and 2009, 
the main focus of the Company sustainability reporting was to 
select and present the performance 
indicators against a wider context including Company’s strategy and management approach. This approach was implemented, to a significant 
extent, in the interim Review of the 
Company’s sustainable development activities issued in 2009. This Report is also based on this approach. It also includes a number of standard 
indicators, laying a base for further 
development of sustainability reporting in the Company. It should also be noted that the Company expansion and its management structures and systems 
optimization have set new tasks in 
data collection and consolidation. In this respect, the standard indicators in this Report do not cover all of the 
Company’s activity. Thus, the scope 
of coverage does not include foreign assets, and only partially covers the activities of affiliated Russian assets. where necessary, the coverage area is 
expressly stipulated. Integration of these 
data into general corporate sustainable development reports is a task to be solved in the next reporting cycles. ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLEREsOuRCEs FOR 
thE FutuRE: 
ECONO mIC 
dEvELOP mENt 5Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
345
REsOuRCEs 
FOR thE FutuRE: ECONOmIC dEvELOPmENt 
Gazprom Neft wishes to become an 
international oil and gas company owning a regionally diversified 
portfolio of assets along the whole 
value chain. The Company’s strategy of development until 2020 suggests impressive business growth in all key 
sectors, expansion of the business 
geography, and strengthening of the leader positions in terms of efficiency performances. The Company’s strategy is carried out stage by stage. 
The objective for the period of 2008-
2010 is to create the basis for future fundamental growth. The goals set in this area for 2009 were successfully 
achieved. RESOURCES FOR ThE FUTURE: 
ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT 
Key proDuction inDicators,  2007–20092009 2008 2007
Proved oil reserves, mln bbl 6 924 6 303 6 709
Proved gas reserves, bn ft
33 231 3 033 1 232
hydrocarbon reserves, mln BOE 7 462 6 808 6 914
Oil and gas production with share in equity investees, mln BOE367,8 360,9 331,7
Oil production of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, mln BOE224,9 228,6 243,2
Company’s share in production by equity investees, mln BOE124,3 114,2 77,3
Total, oil production, mln BOE 349,2 342,8 320,5
Oil refining at own refineries in Russia, mln t21,5 17,2 15,5
Oil refining at own refineries abroad, mln t 2,2 – –
Oil refining at equity investees’ refineries, mln t7,9 9,5 9,2
Oil exports, international markets, mln t 15,6 16,3 15,1
Oil exports, CIS, mln t 3,3 3,3 2,5
Crude oil sales, domestic market, mln t 0,3 0,9 1,6
Petroleum product exports, international markets, mln t13,2 10,9 11,4
Petroleum product exports, CIS, mln t 2,3 1,9 1,9
Petroleum product sales, domestic market, mln t18,3 16,2 13,4Successful economic activity is a firm basis 
for Gazprom Neft’s large-scale contribution to the social and economic development 
of the country and regions where it 
operates. Gazprom Neft is a leading supplier of fuel resources and one of Russia’s largest employers and taxpayers. 
The Company invests in production 
modernization and development of its R&D base, and commissions innovative technological solutions important for the industry’s development. Besides, Gazprom 
Neft supports Russian manufacturers 
in other sectors placing its orders with Russian contractors. The Company is striving to provide ever-improving product 
quality, attentively considering the users’ 
expectations and needs. JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
35stRatEGY 
ImPLEmENtatION: 
GRO wth aNd EFFICIENCY
During the year 2009, Gazprom Neft, 
just as all oil companies, had to operate under quite difficult economic conditions, 
i.e. low oil prices early in the year and 
a dropping demand for oil products. however, the Company proactively used 
the opportunities that opened evolved 
during the year to achieve its strategic 
goals, extending portfolio of assets in production, refining, and sales – both in and outside Russia. Gazprom Neft managed not only to retain its economic 
stability, but also to strengthen its market 
positions, and lay a reliable foundation for sustainable development in the future. The crucial task of 2009 was 
to improve efficiency by optimizing 
business processes and assets, updating capacities, and cutting costs. 
The results of the Company’s operations 
in all business sectors exceeded the 
results of 2008. Gazprom Neft achieved the targets set for 2009 to implement the Company’s long-term strategy in all 
of its key business sectors
1. 
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION,  
DEvELOPMENT, AND PRODUCTION 
The growth of proved hydrocarbon 
reserves of Gazprom Neft in 2009, 
Category SPE, less new acquirements, was 97 million tons OE. It was supported both by prospecting on new sites and detailed appraisal of oil fields already under development. The current estimate of the provision of Gazprom Neft production with hydrocarbon 
reserves of Category SPE is about 20 
years. 
The overall oil and gas production 
(including the interest in equity 
investees) was 369.8 million BOE in 2009, or a 2.5% growth against 2008. It could be managed not only by active development of oil fields and the 
purchase of new assets, but also by 
large-scale structural and organizational reforms of Gazprom Neft producing assets. An important achievement of the 
year 2009 was that additional reserves 
of oil extraction could be found for assets with dropping production. 
In 2009, the Company continued 
restructuring of its key oil production facility Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz. It was the first serious step in building optimal operation schemes of the Company’s producing enterprises. On a later date, it is planned to bring all the Gazprom Neft subsidiaries and affiliates to scales comparable in production rates, personnel numbers, and management systems, which in turn will enable comparability of the results between different producing enterprises. Simultaneously, a focused management vertical will be built in each of the business clusters with strict authority and responsibility interfaces along the whole chain from the Corporate Headquarters to workshops. This effort must result in higher business efficiency with minimized losses and costs. 
1 For more details of the Company’s economic results see The Annual Report of JSC Gazprom Neft for 
2009. These results were also commented on in the Sibirskaya Neft corporate magazine (No. 3, 2010) and 
the corporate newspaper (Neftegazeta, 2010, No. 2)ThE COMPANY’S 2009  
INvESTMENT PROGRAM (LESS PURChASE OF NEw ASSETS) AMOUNTED TO US$ 2.6 BILLION, OF whICh:
2.0 BILLION:  
  PRODUCTION BLOCK DEvELOPMENT EXPENSES 
0.3 BILLION:    REFINING BLOCK DEvELOPMENT EXPENSES
0.3 BILLION:   OThER EXPENSES
SOURCE: 
COMPANYDATA
494 MLN TONS
9,5 %JsC GazPROm NEFt shaRE  
IN thE RF OIL PROduCtION  IN 2009, mILLION tONs36
4
5
19637 8
9 101120
21222312
1
21314
15
16
17
18Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLERESOURCES FOR ThE FUTURE: 
ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT 
GazPROm NEFt dEvELOPmENt PROsPECts IN aNd OutsIdE 
RussIa: BusINEss GEOGRaPhY 
1 Cuba
2 Venezuela3 Germany4 Tunisia5 Libya6 Egypt7 Belarus8 Bryansk Region9 Ukraine10 Volgograd region11 Kazan
12 Khanty-Mansi Autonomous
     District
13 Novoportovskoye field
14 Messoyakhskoye field15 Kuyumbinskoye field 16 Chita17 Vanino18 Thailand 19 Equatorial Guinea 20 Vologda Region 21 Iran22 Iraq 23 Turkey
Jet fuel 
Petroleum Product Supply
Enterprises
Trading Bunkering 
Exploration and production Oils and lubricants Assets in 2009
Project for 2010–2012
Fields 4
5
19637 8
9 101120
21222312
1
21314
15
16
17
18JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
37Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
38RESOURCES FOR ThE FUTURE: 
ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT 
OIL FIELD SERvICE
In 2009, despite the recession in 
the demand for oil and gas field 
services, the targets in this sector were achieved. 
The competition on the Russian oil 
field service market is high, and the requirements for companies operating in this segment become more stringent with every year. In order to improve the 
production efficiency and to strengthen 
the market positions, a quality management system in compliance with the ISO 9000 international 
standards is being implemented 
at all the Gazpromneft-Nefteservis enterprises. By the end of 2009, eight of the nine enterprises were certified for compliance with these standards, 
and in 2010, the program will be 
completed. 
In 2009, Gazpromneft-Nefteservis had 
several record-breaking results: 
 AFor the first time in the Company’s history, 1.1 million m of advance was drilled. 
 A656 new operating wells were commissioned in the 12 months of 2009, which is 45 wells more than in 2008. This increase in the number of wells commissioned became possible due to an extended production drilling program: the advance reached 2,158,100 m, which exceeds the 2008 level by 125,000 m, as the overall drilling rate and average advance per drilling crew.
 AThe well construction time was reduced by 15%. 
 
OIL REFINING
In 2009, Gazprom Neft continued its 
long-term strategy of output increase, quality improvement, and conversion rate of its oil refining. 
The Company retained its position 
as one of the industry leaders in oil refining growth rate. The growth was 17.6%. The oil product output was 
increased by 18%. This was due both 
to the purchase of new assets, the Serbian NIS and an interest in Sibir Energy, and to the increased process 
level of the refineries. The proportion 
of high-octane gasolines in the total gasoline input was 84%, or 5% higher than in 2008. The average conversion rate was 80% (growth of 3%), and in Gazpromneft-ONPZ, the rate was 
86.7%. The range of oils made by the 
Company was extended in 2009 more than in the whole preceding history of its existence, with 90 new items on the product line of oils. 
The impressive program of updating 
the main refining assets will rank the Company among the world’s leading 
refineries. Most of the investment 
projects are intended to improve the fuel quality to comply with the Class 4 and Class 5 requirements of the Technical Regulation «Requirements 
to Automobile and Aviation Gasoline, 
Diesel and Ship Fuel, Jet Engine Fuel and Furnace Boiler Oil»
1. By making 
high-quality oil products complying with today’s world standards, the Company 
will enhance its competitiveness on both 
domestic and international markets. 
Products by the Company’s enterprises 
find their application in dealing with 
social and economic challenges of a national level, such as building a high-quality transport infrastructure. In 2009, Gazprom Neft signed an agreement 
with the Ministry of Transport of the 
Russian Federation on cooperation in manufacturing and application of new-generation petroleum road 
asphalts. The use of this product 
will greatly improve the quality and extend the service life of Russian roads, providing serious savings on repair works. Production of the high-quality material based on advanced 
technologies will promote development 
of road construction in Russia. In turn, governmental support to the Company’s initiatives will provide sustainable 
development of the Company’s asphalt 
business. 
In 2009, the Company’s subsidiary 
Gazpromneft–Lubricants LLC set up the manufacturing of over 37 new products, mainly related to premium industrial products. The enterprise not only extends the range of its products, but also continuously improves their quality. The quality is proved in particular by the official approval of the SibiMotor consumer motor oils by the world’s leading automotive companies. For instance, in 2009, SibiMotor oils were approved and were recommended for use by MAN, Daimler, and Volkswagen etc.
Based on the results of testing by the 
R&D center of the KAMAZ factory, SibiMotor oils of the Diesel Premium, Diesel Avangard and Diesel Extra series were included in the recommendations for use in the new engines of KAMAZ trucks. 
In 2009, JSC Slavneft-Yaroslavnefte-
orgsintez (YaNOS) received the Quality Award of the Government of the Russian Federation in the category of large industrial enterprises with over 1,000 employees. The award was given for significant results in product and service quality and implementation of highly efficient quality management methods.
Diplomas of the Contest «100 Best 
Products of Russia 2009» in the nomination «Products for Industrial and Technical Purposes» were awarded to products of JSC Gazpromneft-ONPZ and JSC Slavneft-YaNOS. In particular, the diplomas were given to industrial carbon raw material, transmission oil Super T-3», and all-season universal motor oil Extra produced by Gazpromneft-ONPZ. Another product of Gazpromneft-ONPZ, non-ethylated gasoline Premium Euro-
SOURCE: 
COMPANY
DATA
236 MLN TONS
13,2 %JsC GazPROm NEFt shaRE  
IN thE RF OIL REFINING IN 2009, mILLION tONs
1 Technical Regulation «Requirements to Automobile and Aviation Gasoline, Diesel and Ship Fuel, Jet 
EngineFuel and Furnace Boiler Oil», approved by the Russian Federation Government Decree No.118, 
27 February 2008)Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
40RESOURCES FOR ThE FUTURE: 
ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT 
95, got the «Novelty of the Year» status. 
The diploma-winning reactive engine fuel TS-1 made by JSC Slavneft-YaNOS is intended for subsonic aircraft. Its features are high quality and good performances, it ensures no-failure operation of reactive engines and flight safety and meets today’s environmental requirements. 
In 2009 the Moscow Refinery received 
three diplomas of the Russian Organization for Quality and three certificates to verify the top quality level of such products as 92 RON and 95 RON motor gasolines and diesel fuel of grades С, Е, F, and EURO-3. The «Russian Quality» program was instituted by the Russian Organization for Quality (ROQ) established in February by the initiative of the Gosstandart of Russia. ROQ cooperates with committees of the Federation Council and the State Duma, and interacts with the European Organization for Quality and American Society for Quality.
 
SALES
In 2009, Gazprom Neft strengthened 
its positions on the wholesale and retail oil product markets. The petroleum product sales on the domestic market 
increased by 13% in 2009 compared to 
2008 to become 18.3 million tons. The Company’s share of the gasoline market reached 15% (growth by 1%), and on the aviation fuel market, 23% (growth by 
5%). The growth of petroleum product 
sales via premium channels (small wholesale and retail) was 40%. 
The recognized high quality of its 
products enabled the Company to take a leading position on the Russian market in such strategic segments as ship bunkering and aircraft refueling 
provided by Gazpromneft Marine 
Bunker and Gazpromneft Aero sale companies. 
The Company’s retail network was 
expanded. 11 filling stations were built, 58 reconstructed, and 61 purchased in 2009. By the end of 2009, the Company’s network included 950 retail 
outlets. The purchase of Sibir Energy 
and NIS added 612 more retail outlets to this network. 
Implementation of uniform customer 
service standards helped to improve the retail network efficiency. This program included development of a «Book of Rules» regulating the personnel’s 
work at all of the Company’s filling 
stations, and personnel training. A team of internal trainers was put in place, and all the personnel of the filling 
stations network (8800 persons) were 
trained to pre-developed standards. A system of service quality control and compliance with the uniform standards was introduced. In some regions, the 
control formats included inspection by 
the «Mystery Shopper» method, where specially trained people pretending to be normal customers evaluated 
the station employees’ performance. 
The results obtained, and subsequent involvement of the station employees in the skill upgrading program enabled a sizeable improvement of the efficiency 
and quality of personnel operation.
In 2009, implementation of the new 
retail brand «Gazpromneft» started. 
387 filling stations started operating 
under the new retail brand of the 
Company. Appearance of a national brand of high recognizability and high degree of confidence in the product 
quality on the market will promote 
achievement of the Company’s strategic goal, i.e. becoming a leader in oil product sales in Russia. The 
project of a united filling stations 
network under the «Gazpromneft» brand suggests updating of over 1,000 filling stations in Russia and CIS countries in 2009–2011.
The eight-meter white-and-blue 
«beacon» steles brightly illuminated at night have already become a customary guide for drivers in different regions of the country, from Moscow and St. Petersburg to Siberia and Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District. By the end of 2011, the corporate symbols of the Company’s retail network will decorate all the filling stations of Gazprom Neft.   In 2009, the first phase of rebranding the Company-owned retail stations was implemented. 387 stations were rendered in the new corporate style. Gazprom Neft gas filling stations keep to Gazprom’s color style. These stations can be distinguished by their original art design represented by a dynamic graphic pattern, rounded stele and frieze shapes reminding of the well-known Gazprom «lighter» silhouette. However, the new brand is not only a unique and recognizable visual image. It is also a new offer by the Company to its customers: high-quality product and services at the up-to-date level for the mass customer at an affordable competitive price. The specific features of each region are considered too. The new «Gazpromneft» brand offers the customer reliability, security, friendliness, up-to-dateness, and respect.   The program of setting up a united network under the new «Gazpromneft» brand includes not only a new corporate style of the existing filling stations, but also their reconstruction, and construction of new stations. Retail stations under the «Gazpromneft» brand will be standardized to a few formats depending on the station size. Reconfiguration of the stations will make them more convenient in terms of approach drives, maneuvering, and no queues. Where only practicable, a broad range of extra motor services will be offered, such as replacement of oil and lubricants, maintenance, tire fitting, technical fluid filling, car wash etc.; services from stores and cafes to automatic teller machines and Internet access will be available to drivers. The fuel quality everywhere will be brought up to the high Gazprom Neft standards. Discount and bonus programs will be offered to drivers.   The rebranding program is still going on, but its first results can already be mentioned. For instance, the sales at the filling stations of some of the enterprises operating under the new brand grew by 15–20%.  It is intended that one day the Company’s filling stations network will win the status of a global international brand due to integration of the Company’s assets outside Russia.
To extend the customer base and to 
improve the customer loyalty, projects addressed to corporate and individual 
clients were launched: a cashless 
settlement system for corporations and «Coming Your w ay», a loyalty bonus 
program for individual customers. 
Using the experience of these projects, 
the Company intends to implement a common annual program of actions covering all actions for promotion of fuel and related products. Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
42RESOURCES FOR ThE FUTURE: 
ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT 
The exports of oil slightly dropped 
in 2009 compared to 2008 due to the recession in demand on the 
international market. Gazprom Neft 
supplied 15.6 million tons of crude oil to the world market (16.3 in 2008.) The crude oil supplies to the CIS markets 
remained at the level of 2008. The oil 
product exports to former Soviet Union countries increased by 21.1%, and to international markets, also by 21.1% compared to 2008. 
vECtOR  
OF INNO vatIvE 
dEvELOPmENt
The innovative development ability 
is becoming a key factor of strategic competitiveness in today’s world. 
Gazprom Neft uses a systemic 
approach to enhancement of its innovative potential, investing in research and development, creating 
managerial, infrastructural, and 
personnel prerequisites for efficient implementation of innovations in the principal sectors of its activity. Implementation of new technologies 
enables the Company to keep up to 
date, regularly reducing operating costs and improving its business efficiency. 
Another priority for all the lines of the 
Company’s business in innovative development area is providing solutions for higher industrial and environmental 
safety. 
The structure of innovative activity 
in Gazprom Neft comprises 
facilities specialized in research 
and development, projects of implementation of new technologies and support to personnel’s innovative initiatives that are embodied by 
enterprises within the core business 
blocks, and joint projects with leading research and technology centers of the country and with foreign partners. 
The principles of the corporate 
intellectual activity results management policy are in particular described in the Concept of Protection of Intellectual 
Activity and Innovative Development 
Results developed in 2009 by JSC Gazpromneft Research and Development Center, a subsidiary of the 
Company. Gazpromneft NTC was established in 
2007 on the basis of the Company’s Research and Analysis Department. Building within the Company a powerful 
research and development center, 
concentrating highly skilled scientists and technologists and oriented at solving practical problems is an 
important prerequisite of efficient 
innovative development. The principal goal of NTC in the domain of science and technology is accelerated adoption of technical progress achievements, 
preparation for implementation of 
new equipment and processes necessary for dynamic development of production. Gazpromneft NTC 
provides the full range of designing and 
analytical and operating support to oil and gas exploration and production, including surface facilities, and a broad range of R&D related to oil and 
gas exploration, development, and 
production. The results of the efforts in these domains help to improve the efficiency of field development 
and enhancement of the Company’s 
reserve base, and to reduce the time and money costs. 
For instance, Gazprom Neft specialists 
proposed and carried through to 
large-scale implementation several theoretical, process, and engineering efforts that helped to solve an urgent 
problem of separate continuous 
production monitoring faced in the operation of multi-zone reservoirs. The technologies enable the Company to save sizeable money on the reduction 
of operating wells and unit operating 
costs, while providing correct separate metering of production from each zone, as required by license 
agreements. The technologies were approved by governmental agencies, 
patented, and included in the industrial cycle of the Exploration and Production Block. Currently, on the sited of the 
Gazpromneft-Khantos enterprise, 
the Company is developing a new approach using more advanced remote online systems of separate 
monitoring of oil production and 
injection rates. This effort received the science and technology prize of JSC Gazprom for 2009. 
In 2009, a Spatial visualization Center 
was opened at the Gazprom Neft Research and Development Center in St. Petersburg. The scope of problems 
that can be solved with the aid of the 
Center is vast. As of today, two of them are most urgent: support of adoption of design solutions for development and operation of the Company’s oil fields, 
and design and follow-up of horizontal 
well drilling.
This facility outfitted with the use of the 
latest information and communication 
technologies enables specialists of different profiles to make optimal decisions in a consolidated manner, jointly working with 3D geological 
hydrodynamic models of oil fields in 
a common virtual space. visualization 
helps specialists of different profiles to jointly analyze a lot of factors, 
e.g. data of seismic survey and 
geophysical survey of the wells, interwell correlation, development data, and costs. The consolidated solution will be the least risky and the 
most profitable one. 
A second important aspect of the 
Center is support to well drilling during 
the operation. Data are received at Exploration Development of rational packages of geological and geophysical 
surveys, improvement of resource evaluation methods, lowering geological risks, and achieving more precise location of promising sites 
Oil production Oil production stimulation and reservoir recovery improvement 
Oil refining Implementation of Russian innovative technologies for isomerization of light gasoline fractions. Manufacturing of highly efficient catalysts for catalytic cracking.
Sales Implementation of information technologies in customer relations management; development of marketing technologies.PRIORItY sECtORs OF INNO vatIvE dEvELOPmENts  
IN thE COmP aNY Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
44RESOURCES FOR ThE FUTURE: 
ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT 
the Center in the real time mode. This 
enables the fastest response to any change in the situation. Even a slight 
correction in the course of horizontal 
well drilling can yield an impressive cost effect. Geologists, drillers, and designers using the services of the 
Spatial visualization Center can find 
their solution as fast as possible, with the error risk greatly reduced.
In 2009, JSC Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegazgeofizika, a subsidiary of Gazpromneft-Nefteservis LLC, received the prestigious industrial prize OFS-AWARDS-2009 in the nomination «Strategy of the Year». The development strategy of Noyabrskneftegazgeofizika is based on implementation of innovative methods and technologies. For this purpose, an innovative design and technological unit was established within GPN-NNGGF, with its activity focused on collection and generation of innovative ideas, patenting, and development of design documentation. The number of innovations created and patented per thousand workers exceeds the average Russian figures several times. Besides, the enterprise has its own facilities for making pilot models of innovative equipment for new and updatable technologies and instruments.
In developing new technologies, 
Gazprom Neft cooperates with industrial R&D centers. The Program and 
Industrial Complex named Iskender 
may serve as an example of such cooperation. It is being developed for the Company by the specialists 
of Sarov’s Oil and Gas Scientific and 
Production Center. Iskender is a tool for hydrocarbon deposit surveying with the aid of computer numerical calculations. The system, used together with the NTC 
engineers’ developments, calculates 
the optimal operating conditions of wells and well equipment. This will materially reduce the premature equipment 
failures by optimal selection of pump 
equipment for wells with difficult geological conditions and noticeably cut the costs both by reducing the number of repairs and by optimizing 
the pump operating conditions. The 
use of Iskender will also help to solve some applied problems, for instance making feasibility studies and oil field 
developing projects, analyzing field 
developing risks, and predicting the production performances. The model is adapted to the conditions of Gazprom Neft oil fields, and applicable to 
horizontal wells. 
The research and development in oil 
refining in 2009 were mostly intended 
to solve problems related to production 
updating and higher quality of motor fuels. Retrofitting projects were implemented at the Gazpromneft-ONPZ and Moscow Refinery. Among 
these projects are an isomerization 
plant, a set of hydro cleaning plants for diesel fuels and catalytic cracking gasolines, and reconstruction of L-24-9 
и L-24-6 hydro cleaning plants at 
Gazpromneft-ONPZ. 
In 2009, construction of Isomalk-2, 
one of Russia’s largest isomerization 
plants, started at Gazpromneft-ONPZ. 
The completion of the construction is scheduled for July 2010. The new plant will be able to process 800,000 
tons of crude per year and will help the 
Company to reduce purchases of high-octane additives and greatly increase the output of high-octane gasolines complying with the Class 4 and Class 5 requirements of the Technical Regulation. 
At the Moscow Refinery, the basic 
design for isomerization plants was developed, and work was underway 
on the catalytic cracking gasoline 
hydro cleaning project and selection of a catalytic system for reconstruction of the diesel fuel hydro cleaning plant. 
In 2009, the Gazpromneft-ONPZ-
Yokogawa Engineering Center started its operation at Gazpromneft-ONPZ. Its purpose is to create an advanced production/process control system on the basis of up-to-date information technologies. Yokogawa automatic control systems have been used by Gazpromneft-ONPZ for several years. Recently, implementation of the CENTUM CS3000 control systems has been going on especially fast; they are already used on the sulfur production, GFU-2, AVT-6, and FSB plants providing high reliability of oil refining processes. Yokogawa is the general supplier of control and measuring as well as computer-aided manufacturing equipment for the L-24-9 diesel fuel hydro cleaning system, which will make diesel fuel of European quality after its reconstruction. Such control systems with emergency protection will be mounted on several other plants of the refinery. The engineering Center outfitted to state-of-the art models is becoming a base for quality testing of new equipment and personnel training in using it. Each training place has everything for computer testing of any sensors and detection of instrumentation that needs replacement. Besides, at such training places you can model a failure of equipment components and find ways to solve the problem. The Center’s equipment is identical to that used on the operating plants of the refinery. This will help not only to instruct the refinery’s employees, but also to quickly replace a failed component of the process control system in case of an urgent need.
In its sales activity, Gazprom Neft pays 
special attention to updating service technologies. In 2009, the Company 
introduced a new Petrol Plus Corporate 
Cashless Payment System based on microprocessor fuel cards. The system enables corporate clients to 
control spending of their money and oil JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
45products, to set a daily or monthly limit 
of filling up on fuel at filling stations per vehicle, and to get detailed information as to what amount, where and when 
the automobile was filled up. By the 
end of each month, depending on the quantity of oil products used, corporate customers of Gazprom Neft retail stations are granted an individual 
discount. 
The new system is convenient, safe, 
and efficient. It enables unification of the 
customer service system, improvement 
of the service quality, and material expansion of the Gazprom Neft fuel card service geography all over Russia. The system enabled integration of all 
retail stations into one interregional 
processing center, which has greatly simplified the document flow within the Company itself. 
A major factor of the Company’s 
innovative development is its advanced information infrastructure. Gazprom Neft pays most serious attention to 
renovation and improvement of the 
Company’s information technology potential. Specialists of Gazprom Neft NTC jointly with employees 
of the Department of Information Technologies, Automation, and 
Telecommunications completed in 2009 the first phase of solution testing on the basis of the «thin client» technology. 
These solutions are offered by НР, 
a world leader in this segment, for setting up Data Processing Centers and building a highly efficient IT infrastructure, and are implemented on 
the latest software/hardware platform 
that has no analogues yet in other oil companies operating in Russia. The «thin client» technology enables 
centralized processing and storage of 
user data, and offering users computing facilities and graphic resources in the terminal mode as necessary. It ensures cost cutting, flexibility, and mobile 
corporate IT support. 
A favorable social environment is 
as important for innovations as the 
information technology environment. 
Gazprom Neft is consistently shaping such an environment. Special attention is paid to young graduates who are given the opportunity of continuous 
professional development and creative 
self-fulfillment. Since 2007, interregional conferences of the Company’s young professionals have been held in 
Noyabrsk. Young Gazprom Neft professionals 
arrive here with scientific papers from St. Petersburg, Tomsk, Khanty-Mansiysk, Muravlenko and other 
cities. In 2009, 75 young professionals 
attended the conference. The proceeding was subdivided into four sections, «Geology and development of oil fields», «Oil and gas production 
technology», «Oil and gas treatment 
and transportation», and «Support to business». The experts reviewing the papers were specialists from the 
relevant departments of Gazprom Neft, 
executive managers of territorial oil production projects, and leading faculty professors and instructors of the Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas, 
Tyumen State Oil and Gas University, 
National Research Tomsk Polytechnic University, and Ufa State Petroleum Technological University. Such 
conferences help to identify promising 
specialists oriented at research and industrial practice at the same time. About one quarter of proposals presented at the conference later find 
their application as inventions providing 
real saving for the business.ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLEhuma N 
REsOuRCEs 
dEvELOP mENt 
aNd sOCIaL 
PROGR ams648Creating a world-class team is a prerequisite 
for Gazprom Neft to become a global leader in the industry. The Company’s ambitious 
strategy can only be implemented by a highly 
motivated professional team sharing common objectives. Gazprom Neft regards its staff as strategic partners and sees investments 
in human resources as investments in its 
future. The Company works consistently to hire the best professionals, form a personnel reserve, develop the motivation system and improve skills. The employees are provided 
with competitive wages and social package. 
The Company encourages its employees’ initiatives and innovations, provides a wide range of self-development and career 
opportunities.humaN REsOuRCEs 
dEvELOPmENt aNd sOCIaL PROGRams
stRatEGY aNd 
maNaGEmENt
The Company’s strategic hR 
development priorities are dictated 
by its long-term strategy providing 
for a rapid growth of the Company, 
proactive geographic expansion and orientation to maintain leadership in efficiency. These tasks require 
appropriate human resources, i.e. 
such people who are ready to ensure operational efficiency, successful work with hard-to-develop hydrocarbon fields and utilization of large projects. In the 
end of 2008, Gazprom Neft’s human 
Resources Management Strategy till 
the Year 2020 was approved. The document links the hR strategy with 
the overall corporate strategy. It is also based on social diagnostics, analysis of labor market trends and comparison of the Company’s current hR management system with that of its 
competitors.
The consistent implementation of 
the hR management strategy in 
2009 included development of the Company-wide regulations and a set of improvement measures for hR 
management, recruitment, training, motivation, compensation, social 
benefits, corporate culture. The 
Company is working to implement uniform hR business processes and 
management structures within its main 
activity areas.
Within the framework of developing the 
Company’s HR management system, a sociological study «Work at Gazprom Neft» was carried out by BCG, an international consulting company. In total, about 2,900 employees and managers were surveyed. The study enabled to assess the employees’ satisfaction and analyze a number of aspects of the HR management system. The results of the study helped to identify the key issues for a constructive cooperation with the staff.
In 2009, the Company continued 
the development of standards for employee motivation and social 
benefits regulating the assessment of 
positions and determination of grades, methods of forming compensation packages and assigning individual 
grades to employees across the 
IN BusINEss:
EFFICIENCY
LEADERShIPINITIATIvERESPONSIBILITYIN sOCIaL REaL tIONs:
hONESTYDECENCYRESPECTCOOPERATIONGazPROm NEFt’s k EY CORPOR atE vaLuEshUMAN RESOURCES DEvELOPMENT  
AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS6Energy for lifeENERGY FOR PEOPLEEnergy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
50hUMAN RESOURCES DEvELOPMENT  
AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Company, procedure of granting 
awards to employees from the CEO’s fund, voluntary medical insurance 
procedure, method of granting, 
calculating and paying awards to employees of subsidiaries and affiliates involved in corporate projects, 
and a number of other standards 
constituting the methodological and regulatory basis for a uniform wages and social benefits management system.
Gazprom Neft operates in many 
regions. Therefore, it is essential for the Company to create a common 
corporate culture based on shared 
corporate values, principles and conduct standards. In 2009, the Company finalized the Corporate Ethics Code reflecting the system 
of values of Gazprom Neft as an 
efficient, rapidly growing and socially responsible company. The Code orientates all employees, regardless 
of their status or position, as well as 
the Company’s partners towards such principles as fair and good-faith conduct of business, exclusion of dual standards, incorruptibility and honesty, 
constructive cooperation and ability to 
work in a team and achieve the best results by the optimal way, attention to social issues and civilized attitude to the 
environment.
A favorable atmosphere within the 
Company is supported with the corporate internal communications 
system which includes Company-wide 
media and publications by subsidiaries and affiliates, regular meetings between the staff and the management, 
common sports and cultural activities 
such as sports competitions, creative contests, festivals and other team-building events.
In 2010, the Company will conduct 
a qualitative study of its corporate culture. The results of these studies will be used for preparing a comprehensive development program. 
PERsONNEL 
ChaRa CtERIstICs
Gazprom Neft is one of the largest 
employers. As a result of geographical expansion and business development, 
the average number of employees on 
the payroll increased by 4% in 2009 compared to the previous year. Over 50 000 Gazprom Neft employees 
are working in more than 20 Russian 
regions as well as in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Belarus. Almost one half (46%) of the Gazprom Neft staff are employed in Yamalo-
Nenets Autonomous District. Omsk 
and the Omsk Region account for 17% of the Company’s staff. About 11% are employed in Moscow and the 
Moscow Region, of which 21% at the 
Corporate headquarters. The average age of the Company’s employees is 39. 
Gazprom Neft provides competitive wages and decent social benefits in keeping with market trends. In 2009, the personnel costs rose 13.5% as compared with 2008.
SOURCE:
COMPANY
DATA
31.12.200748 313 48 014
31.12.200850 771
31.12.2009GazPROm NEFt avERaGE  
hEadCOuNt, 2007–2009.1
1 hereinafter in this section the quoted data covers 
JSC Gazprom Neft and its subsidiaries and affiliates 
in Russia and the CIS, unless otherwise specified in the text. expenses2007 2008 2009
Total personnel expenses, millions of 
rubles (less payroll taxes)19 958 24 818 28 156
Including payroll for employees on the list, millions of rubles19 259 23 238 26 617
Social benefits, millions of rubles 699 1 580 1 539PERsONNEL ExPENsEs, 2007–2009JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
51PERsONNEL 
RECRuItmENt  
aNd tRaINING
COOPERATION wITh EDUCATIONAL 
INSTITUTIONS AND RECRUITMENT  OF YOUNG PROFESSIONALS
Gazprom Neft is interested in recruiting 
young gifted professionals. Today’s purposeful, energetic and promising 
university graduates will be the core of 
the Company’s staff tomorrow. 
In 2009, 305 graduates joined the 
Company. With these new recruits, the Company employs 805 young specialists.
The Company works with young 
specialists in accordance with the «Procedure of w ork with Young 
Professionals» Standard recommended for the subsidiaries and affiliates. To make such work more efficient, a new development program is to 
be implemented in 2010, including 
management competencies trainings, mentor training program, corporate young professionals rally and practical training programs for university students 
at the Company’s subsidiaries and 
affiliates.
Gazprom Neft pays special attention to 
cooperation with the leading Russian 
universities and vocational colleges. In 2009, it continued cooperation with three strategic partner universities: G. v. Plekhanov Saint-Petersburg 
State Mining University, I. M. Gubkin 
Russian State University of Oil and Gas, M. v. Lomonosov Moscow State University. An agreement was 
concluded with the Moscow Geological 
Exploration School.
Jointly with the G. v. Plekhanov Saint-
Petersburg Mining University, contests 
were organized for high school 
graduates in the cities of the Company’s presence (Noyabrsk, Omsk), with the winners admitted to the university. 
During the year, about 530 students 
from partner universities received practical training at the Company’s enterprises.
The Gazpromneft Research and 
Development Center and the I. M. Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas agreed to set up a base department at the University. The 
Company’s staff members teach at the 
same-industry education institutions, evaluating and fostering potential employees. Thus, the Center’s lead 
experts teach at the I. M. Gubkin 
Russian State University of Oil and Gas and at the Noyabrsk College. Many of their former students have already joined the Company.
Gazprom Neft information stands 
are placed at the partner universities promoting the career opportunities 
with the Company. Meetings with the 
Company’s staff not only provided the students with general information on the Company, but also helped find answers to a number of topical questions 
regarding career opportunities, wages 
and benefits. 
The Company’s subsidiaries and 
affiliates also develop university 
cooperation programs. Such universities include the Tyumen Oil and Gas University, Ufa Oil Technical University, Tomsk Polytechnic University, 
v. I. Ulyanov-Lenin Kazan State 
University, F. M. Dostoevsky Omsk State University, Omsk State Technical University, Novosibirsk State University, 
Samara State Technical University, 
Siberian State Automobile and Road Academy. 
The Company keeps developing 
programs for talented high school 
students. In 2009, in addition to the Gazprom Neft Classes, a regional preparatory department was opened in Noyabrsk providing additional industry-related training for high school 
students. The faculty staff at the 
department include instructors from the I. M. Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas.
10 best students of the Petrochemical 
Institute of Omsk State Technical University and Chemical Faculty of the F. M. Dostoyevsky Omsk State University were granted personal scholarships by JSC Gazprom Neft-ONPZ this year. On November 17, 2009 a meeting with the new scholarship holders took place at the ONPZ training center. The Head of the ONPZ HR Department, Arkady Kuzyukov, informed the students of the operational performance and outlooks of the enterprise. Since 2002, the Gazpromneft-ONPZ personal scholarships have been granted to about 100 students.
In June 2009, the first Gazprom Neft 
corporate young professionals rally was held in Omsk with over 120 participants from all units and enterprises of the Company. The purpose of the rally was to develop the young professionals’ teamwork abilities and motivation.  The teamwork abilities were developed using the Joint Project business game which consisted of several blocks: «Link between generations», «Promotion of new ideas», and «Human resources development».Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
52hUMAN RESOURCES DEvELOPMENT  
AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS
STAFF PROFESSIONAL  
TRAINING
The steady and dynamic development 
of the Company and its competitiveness depend directly on the skills and professional abilities of its staff. 
Therefore, employee training and 
development as well as creation of a strong hR reserve are Gazprom Neft’s strategic goals.
Gazprom Neft aims to build 
a continuous training system meeting the business and corporate culture requirements of the Company and 
covering all personnel categories and 
management levels. The Company has the «Employee Training Organization Procedure» standard that is recommended to the subsidiaries and 
affiliates.
In 2009, 105.6 million rubles were spent 
on employee training. Training was 
provided to 1,290 employees.
Gazprom Neft’s training and 
development programs include three main units:
 Aprofessional training programs aimed at improving knowledge and skills for specific specializations and functions;
 Acorporate management competencies development programs;
 A business insight development programs.
The hR development and training programs include mandatory, corporate and additional training as well as 
hR reserve and young professional 
development.
In 2009, corporate management 
competency development training was 
provided to 642 employees, five times 
as many as in 2008. 
Modular programs were developed 
for the comprehensive management 
skills development, such as «Business Leaders» (at the Moscow business school Skolkovo), «Success v ector», 
«Growth Managers», and «Growth 
Managers+», based on analysis of 
the Company’s business needs. It is expected that over 250 people will be trained under these programs every 
year.In 2009 Gazprom Neft launched a large 
professional development project. The Company started developing a system 
of professional competencies by 
business areas with the subsequent assessment and identification of employee development targets. 
The main tool for the employees 
development planning is the Individual Development Plans prepared taking into consideration the job requirements, 
assessment results, employees 
development opportunities as well as the immediate managers’ and mentors’ opinions.
The Company works systematically 
with the internal hR reserve. It is very advantageous for the Company to fill important positions for the 
growing business using the internal 
hR reserves. First of all, hR risks are reduced, as it takes about three weeks to fill a position from the 
internal reserve, while it may take up 
to three months to find an external candidate. Furthermore, a reservist employee adapts to the new position within a month, while the adaptation 
of an external recruit would take much 
more time. It is also important that the Company’s employees see clear career opportunities and outlooks.
A multi-level hR reserve development 
program has been implemented at the Company since 2007. In 2009 it was adjusted to ensure more consistently 
and efficiently the reliability and hR 
stability of the Company management under the conditions of its dynamic growth. Now the target list of the 
Company contains about 180 positions: 
at the Gazprom Neft Corporate headquarters, from Deputy CEOs to the heads of some departments; at subsidiaries and affiliates — CEOs and 
their subordinates directly responsible 
for operations. 
The hR reserve training includes 
managers training at leading Russian 
and foreign universities, trainings and seminars, comprehensive development programs for relevant competencies. 
The personnel training system is tailored 
to the expanding geography of the Company’s activities and supports the implementation of strategies in 
key business areas. Thus, to support the marketing strategy providing for 
uniform service standards in all regions, the decision was made to set up four 
interregional training centers (ITC) 
providing personnel training under common programs. A training center is already in operation at Gazpromneft–
Asia, covering Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, 
and Tajikistan. The first group of interregional training centers was opened at Gazpromneft–Center to cover central Russia. The projects of 
establishing the interregional training 
centers in the Urals and Siberia were approved. 
mOtIvatION  
aNd waGEs
In 2009, the implementation of the 
large-scale project for improving the motivation and wages system 
was continued. The performance 
management system with individual targets for each employee was further developed. These targets enable 
evaluation and prompt monitoring 
of the personnel efficiency. The introduction of the grading system was carried out.
Grading is the system of ranking 
positions depending on their importance for the Company. The criterion for assigning a grade is the responsibility 
level in the decision-making process 
and the scope of work; necessary professional skills, knowledge of the 
SOURCE:
COMPANYDATA
200733 65540 06044 227
2008 2009 
avERaGE mONthLY waGE  
at GazPROm NEFt, 2007–2009 
(RuBLEs)Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
54hUMAN RESOURCES DEvELOPMENT  
AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Company and business, complexity 
level, intellectual requirements for the position are also taken into account. 
The system of grades enables setting 
transparent and uniform personnel wages, and training and evaluation principles for all enterprises and 
positions.
The implementation of this system 
started in 2006. It became necessary to optimize the positions and wages 
structure as the Company grew, its 
organizational structure developed and, accordingly, the internal relations had to be arranged and regulated. 
At the first stage of the project, an 
evaluation was carried out, a hierarchy of positions was determined, a system of 23 grades was built (15 for top and middle managers and 8 for all 
other positions, including the workers’ 
ones), a pilot project was launched for implementation of the system at the Corporate headquarters. By the end of 
2009, the system of grades was fully in place at the Corporate headquarters 
and at 9 enterprises. The top managers’ positions were evaluated at all subsidiaries and affiliates. In 2010, 
most of the subsidiaries and affiliates 
are to be included in the grading process (except for the workers’ professions). 
The efficiency of grading depends 
directly on how the employees are prepared for the changes. To speed up and facilitate the personnel adaptation 
to the new conditions, the hR managers 
and specialists trained at the Corporate headquarters on the positions evaluation and grading rules inform 
employees of the principles of the new 
system in detail, help line managers work with the personnel taking account of the innovations.
Employee involvement in career and 
professional development planning is an important hR management 
principle at the Company. The key 
career planning tools are the Individual 
Development Plans prepared taking into consideration the position requirements, evaluation results, employee development opportunities 
as well as the opinions of immediate 
superiors and mentors. Such plans enable the employees to see clearly the link between the Company’s success 
and their own performance.COOPERatION wIth 
tRadE uNIONs
The trade union organizations uniting 
more than two thirds of the Company's employees
1 participate actively in 
developing the social policy of the Company and decision-making on 
professional and social rights and 
interests of the employees, maintain a constructive dialogue between the personnel and the management. The 
results of this dialogue on the key 
issues of cooperation between the employees and the Company are reflected in collective agreements. The trade union organizations take 
part in the resolution of labor disputes, 
negotiations with the management of enterprises. They focus on such issues as occupational health and industrial 
safety, assistance to employees in 
obtaining quality medical aid and sanatorium and resort treatment. The efficient work of the Company’s trade unions always helps find a balance of 
interests between the employees and 
the employer.
In 2009, a Coordination Board for 
Cooperation with Trade Unions was 
set up at Gazprom Neft. The Board is responsible for preparing proposals on the hR and social policies, coordinating cooperation with the trade unions and 
employees’ representatives within 
the framework of social partnership, employee social welfare. 
sOCIaL PROGRams
SOCIAL wELFARE PACKAGE
In addition to competitive wages, the 
Company provides comprehensive 
social packages, including voluntary medical insurance, insurance against accidents, free meals, material aid 
on various occasions (marriage, 
birth of a child etc.), material aid for vacation, payment for employee trips, anniversary bonuses, additional allowance (childcare, death of the 
employee etc.).
In 2009, the formation of a uniform 
employee social benefits concept for all 
Gazprom Neft companies was started. For this purpose, social packages 
and relevant costs at the subsidiaries and affiliates were analyzed. On 
this basis, a template of the uniform 
collective agreement was drafted. Once discussed in detail and agreed with the trade union committees, it 
will be introduced at all Gazprom Neft 
companies. 
Social benefits in 2009 amounted 
to approximately 31,000 rubles per 
employee, 3% down as compared 
with 2008. The slight reduction is due to the optimization of social benefits at a number of subsidiaries and affiliates. 
however, all the key programs, such as 
voluntary medical insurance, insurance against accidents, free meals, etc. remained in force.
Under the corporate voluntary medical 
insurance contract, the Company’s employees receive competent medical advice, and if necessary, medical 
treatment at the leading Russian clinics. 
In 2009, the Gazprom Neft Employee health Program was adopted, setting uniform corporate healthcare guidelines.
Within the framework of the 2009 summer 
health campaign, employees were granted vouchers to vacation resorts paid for by Gazprom Neft enterprises and trade union organizations. In 2009, the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates allocated more than 82 million rubles for this program. In 2010, the program is to be continued. Vouchers to sanatoriums and children camps at the Black Sea resorts will be granted, first of all, to employees and their children in the Far North areas.
 
CORPORATE SPORTS ACTIvITIES
Sports and health improvement are 
an important area of the Company’s social policy. By maintaining the energy and health of its employees 
Gazprom Neft facilitates greater 
productivity, high economic and production results.
The Company has the Sports and 
heath Improvement Council headed 
by Alexander Dyukov, Chairman of the Gazprom Neft Management 
1 These data applies to Russian enterprises of the Company.Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
56hUMAN RESOURCES DEvELOPMENT  
AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Board. The Council includes Company 
managers and those of its subsidiaries and affiliates, well-known sportsmen, 
Olympic and world champions in 
various sports.
To strengthen the team spirit, the 
Company holds corporate sports 
competitions and tournaments. The second summer Gazprom Neft spartakiada in Moscow became a noteworthy event of the year. In 
addition to football, volleyball, table 
tennis and weight-lifting, chess was for the first time included in the competition program. About 300 
employees representing teams of the 
Gazprom Neft Corporate headquarters 
and regional enterprises competed for the title of Company champions. Furthermore, 70 employees who 
showed high results at the Moscow 
spartakiada were admitted to the international competitions held by the Sports League of Fuel and Power 
Companies in Turkey. 
hOUSING PROGRAM
To improve the living standards of 
its employees, the Company has launched a mortgage program aimed at reducing the interest rates on 
mortgage credits to some categories of employees buying new homes. 
The reduced interest rates are granted by the decision of the ad hoc 
Credit Commission of the enterprise. 
This program was first launched in Muravlenko and Omsk.
Early in 2010, employees of 
Muravlenkovskneft, a branch of JSC Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz, moved to a new home in a 90-apartments house a new house constructed with the funding provided by Gazprom Neft. The apartments were granted primarily to large and young families as well as to veterans of combat operation. The apartments were finished with due workmanship, so the new occupants moved in immediately after receiving the keys.
 
SUPPORT FOR ThE COMPANY  PENSIONERS AND vETERANS
Gazprom Neft is committed to providing 
care and support for its veterans. Such activities include the creation 
of veterans’ organizations. One of 
them is Fakel, a unique association of Gazpromneft-ONPZ veterans with more than four thousand members. They are granted free medical aid at 
the Plant’s outpatient clinic, free tickets 
to the Rassvet sanatorium, seniority-based pension supplement and medical benefits. Cultural and sports events are also important for the veterans. 
Supporting veterans is not only charity, 
duty to the older generation, recognition of their contribution to the present-day success of the Company. Responsible 
attitude to the veterans, showing that 
the Company duly appreciates the merits of its people motivates today’s employees to work efficiently and creatively. 
In September 2009, Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegaz held an award ceremony for the Company’s veterans. Sergey Filizat, Acting СEO of Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz, congratulated the veterans and delivered Company Veteran cards and corporate souvenirs to 58 employees. The Company Veteran title is awarded in recognition of outstanding merits. Candidates for this title may be men and women aged over 50, who worked continuously at Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz for at least 25 years and were granted governmental and corporate awards during this period. Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz pays the retired Company Veterans a one-time retirement benefit and a monthly pension supplement.ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLECON tRIButION 
tO REGION aL 
dEvELOP mENt7Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
607
CONtRIButION  
tO REGIONaL  dEvELOPmENtCONTRIBUTION TO REGIONAL  
DEvELOPMENT
stRatEGY  
aNd maNaGEmENt
The regional policy is based on 
Gazprom Neft’s development strategy and policies, in line with the regional 
development strategy of the Russian 
Federation and socioeconomic development strategy of its regions and individual territories. In 2007 the 
Company set up the Regional Policy 
Commission responsible for planning and coordinating regional socio-economic cooperation programs. The Commission includes 18 representatives 
from Gazprom Neft’s units and 
subsidiary and affiliates. In 2009, the development of the concept of the Company’s Regional Policy was started, 
based on the experience of regional 
cooperation. This document will provide strategic guidelines and principles for the Company to cooperate with Russian regions and municipalities. Special 
consideration in the process of this work 
is given to the efficiency evaluation of the Regional Policy.
The «Procedure for Preparing 
and Concluding Socio-economic Agreements» Standard aimed at improving the efficiency of cooperation with regional administrations was 
adopted in February 2010 and 
recommended for use at subsidiaries and affiliates.
Gazprom Neft has by now developed 
essentially the regulations and methods ensuring a system approach to charities within the framework of cooperation with regions. Charity support is provided by 
the Corporate headquarters as well as 
by the subsidiaries and affiliates on the basis of the uniform corporate Charity Policy. Another corporate standard, Charitable Aid Procedure, was 
developed and adopted in 2009. The 
decisions to provide such aid are made by the Charity Commission.
The implementation of social programs 
is the responsibility of the Corporate 
Communications Department as well as of the subsidiaries and affiliates in the regions.
In managing regional cooperation 
programs Gazprom Neft adheres to the principles of transparency and openness to dialogue with the 
stakeholders. The Company provides 
information on the implementation of regional initiatives through federal and regional media, intra-corporate 
communications system as well as by 
preparing and circulating sustainable development reports.  
REGIONaL  
COOPERatION  
aNd sOCIaL 
INvEstmENts
Gazprom Neft plays a noticeable role in 
the socio-economic development of the regions where its enterprises operate, 
first of all, as a major taxpayer and 
employer. In 2009, 23 billion rubles were transferred to regional budgets. 
Gazprom Neft provides additional 
support to the territories of its presence by entering into socio-economic agreements with regional and municipal administrations. Such agreements are 
aimed at strengthening partnership 
relations with the regions and are Gazprom Neft contributes to the socio-economic development of all the regions of its operation. Many enterprises within the 
Company are of crucial importance for their 
towns, determining the employment level and generating a considerable portion of local tax revenues. Gazprom Neft deems it necessary to participate in creating a favorable 
social climate and raising living standards 
in the regions of its presence. Through social initiatives and charity programs, the Company promotes child and youth 
education, supports healthcare, contributes 
to the preservation of cultural and historical heritage.
The Company works consistently to improve 
the efficiency of its regional programs, 
develops a constructive dialogue with regional authorities and the public. Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
62CONTRIBUTION TO REGIONAL  
DEvELOPMENT
based on the principles of mutual 
responsibility and mutual benefit. The Company assists the regions in 
implementation of socially important 
projects, including construction and repairs of educational and medical institutions, sports and health facilities, 
cultural and historical heritage items, 
support for adult and children sports, cultural and leisure events. Special attention is given to supporting indigenous people of the North. This 
work improves socio-economic climate, 
raising living standards and creating comfortable social environment for the Company employees and 
their families. The efficient regional 
cooperation also fosters favorable business climate for Gazprom Neft and its subsidiaries and affiliates. The Company views its regional programs 
as strategically important, because 
a social environment favorable for the long-time regional development is necessary for the sustainable, dynamic 
development of the Company and its 
better performance.
The Company’s social initiatives 
take account of the needs of each 
specific region. Social investments are 
proposed by the local administrations, based on the regional priorities and needs. The Company considers these 
proposals and prepares a portfolio of 
social projects, taking into account a number of factors, such as the current economic situation, financial abilities of the Company (profit and size of 
business in specific region). Funds are 
allocated for specific programs and cannot be used for any other purposes.In 2009 the Company continued the cooperation with all of the priority 
regions where it was present. It 
provided support to Khanty-Mansiys Autonomous District, Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District, the Omsk, Tomsk and Tyumen Regions. 
Furthermore, the Company expanded 
the regional cooperation program in 2009 by entering into socio-economic agreements with the Leningrad and 
Murmansk Regions for the first time. 
The social investments under regional agreements over the period in question amounted to a total of 849 million rubles. 
YAMALO-NENETS A UTONOMOUS 
DISTRICT
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District 
is a key region for the Company’s business. Under the socio-economic agreement with the Region, Gazprom 
Neft finances the construction 
and capital repairs of municipal social facilities, participates in the implementation of socio-cultural projects as well as supports mass and 
youth sports activities. Aid is provided 
to the territory on the whole, and, in particular, to five municipal entities: Krasnoselkup, Nadym, Purovsky Regions, towns of Noyabrsk and 
Muravlenko. The total amount financial 
assistance to the Autonomous District under the socio-economic agreements was equal to 180 million rubles.
A stadium was opened in Muravlenko in 
2009 after the reconstruction financed by Gazprom Neft. A sports and health facility and a youth center were under 
construction also due to the Company’s 
financial support. 
Support for indigenous people of the 
North is an individual important subject 
of the Company’s social programs in Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District. Gazprom Neft seeks to create comfortable living conditions for the 
indigenous population wishing to 
preserve the traditional way of life. Socio-economic agreements with the COmP aNY’s CONtRIButION tO CREatING a sOCIaL ENvIRONmENt  
FavORaBLE FOR thE LONG-tERm REGIONaL dEvELOPmENt
Social programs of 
the Company in the Regions of RussiaAssistance in implementation of socially important cultural and sports projects
Support of children and youthSupport of advanced sports
Construction and repairs of educational and medical institutions, 
sports and health facilities, residental buildings, cultural and 
historical heritage items64
12
1314
15
1614
56
7
1011
8
93
2Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLECONTRIBUTION TO REGIONAL  
DEvELOPMENT
1 Yaroslavl Region
1,2 thOusaNd PEOPLE
2 St.Petersburg and Leningrad Region
1,5 thOusaNd PEOPLE
3 Belarus
0.8 thOusaNd PEOPLE
4 Moscow and Moscow Region
11,5 thOusaNd PEOPLEJSC Gazprom Neft 6,1 thousand people
Sibir Energy 5,4 thousand people
5 Chalyabinsk Region
0,4 thOusaNd PEOPLE
6 Sverdlovsk Region
1,9 thOusaNd PEOPLE
7 Tyumen Region
1,8 thOusaNd PEOPLE
8 Kyrgyzstan
1,5 thOusaNd PEOPLE
9 Tadzhikistan
0,1 thOusaNd PEOPLE
10 Omsk Region
7,8 thOusaNd PEOPLE
11 Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug
2,0 thOusaNd PEOPLE
JSC Gazprom Neft 1,0 thousand people
Sibir Energy 1,0 thousand people
12 Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug
2,0 thOusaNd PEOPLE
13 Kemerovo Region
2,0 thOusaNd PEOPLE
14 Tomsk Region
0,6 thOusaNd PEOPLE
15 Novosibirsk Region
1,7 thOusaNd PEOPLE
16 Altai Krai
0,2 thOusaNd PEOPLE  JSC Gazprom Neft
 Sibir Energy 
GazPROm NEFt as a maJOR EmPLOYER IN RussIaN REGIONs12
1314
15
1614
56
7
1011
8
93
2JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
65Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
66CONTRIBUTION TO REGIONAL  
DEvELOPMENT
indigenous population are concluded 
on the annual basis, individually with each family. As many as over 100 
such agreements were concluded 
in 2009. In addition to monetary compensations, representatives of indigenous people received grants for 
purchasing everything necessary for 
traditional trades and housekeeping: fuels and combustibles, snowmobiles, mini power stations, boat motors and other equipment. One-time aid was 
provided during the year. Thus, the 
Company supported the Festival of Reindeer herders, traditional Nenets 
celebration. 
KhANTY-MANSIYSK A UTONOMOUS 
DISTRICT – YUGRA
In Khanty-Mansiysk, Gazprom Neft 
supports the initiative of the District administration regarding preparations for the w orld Chess Olympic Games 
2010. The Company is financing the construction of the Chess Palace. 
The Company traditionally finances 
annual international film festival, «The 
Spirit of Fire». Gazprom Neft also 
provides charitable aid to disabled and orphan children. Aid is provided to Oktyabrskoye, Khanty-Mansiysk, Surgut and Nizhnevartovsk areas of the District. 
The main events here are connected 
with the construction or repairs of secondary schools and medical institutions.
In Khanty-Mansiysk area, Gazprom 
Neft participated in the financing of agricultural development and residential construction programs.
As in Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous 
District, many social programs of the Company are aimed at supporting 
indigenous people of the North. 
Gazprom Neft promoted employment for the local population, acquired fuel and lubricants, snowmobiles, boat motors, consumables for traditional 
trades. The Company allocated funds 
for constructing a daytime children camp for indigenous people in the village of Russkinskaya, Surgut area.
The total amount of charitable aid to 
the Autonomous District under socio-economic agreements was equal to 330 million rubles in 2009. Gazpromneft-Khantos won the annual 
Yugra Black Gold contest held by the District Administration in Khanty-Mansiysk in two nominations: «For Socio-economic Partnership» among oil companies producing over 5 million tons of oil and «For Efficient Development of Mineral Resources». Gazpromneft-Khantos also became a prize winner as the «Most Dynamically Developing Vertically Integrated Company». Almost all large Russian oil companies operating in the region took part in the contest.  Gazpromneft-Khantos’ environmental activities are also highly appreciated in the region, as the technologies used by the company enable minimizing the environmental impacts. In particular, it was there that the company applied for the first time in Russia the technology of pumping drilling wastes into the layer when developing oil fields in water protection areas. The company personnel share the experience of using up-to-date technologies with other oil companies operating in the territory. Moreover, at the request of the Environmental Protection and Safety Department of Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous District, Gazpromneft-Khantos’ plants were used for processing wastes of other Khanty-Mansiysk enterprises.This is how the sports-and-fitness center in Noyabrsk will look in 2011. The project costs are covered in full by Gazprom Neft 
under the socio-economic agreement with the Region. The work on the project started in 2009. The total project financing for 2010-2011 is 450 million rubles. The construction work began in March 2010. JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
67OMSK REGION
In accordance with the cooperation 
agreement for 2009-2011, Gazprom 
Neft participates in the financing 
of socially important projects and programs in the Omsk Region, including cultural and sports ones. In 2009 the Company entered into socio-economic 
agreements in the Region for 319 million 
rubles.
In Tarskyi District, Gazpromneft-ONPZ 
provides regular support for mass 
sports activities. In 2009 alone, the Plant participated in the financing of the winter Spartakiada competitions, Tarskyi semi-marathon, travel of the 
Tarskyi amateur running team to the 
International Moscow Marathon. 
An outpatient clinic was capitally 
repaired in Tarskyi District due to the 
financial support of Gazprom Neft.
The Oil Refining Plant also provides 
aid to educational institutions of 
Bolsherechensk municipal district.
with the assistance of Gazpromneft-
vostok LLC, schoolchildren from Tarskyi 
District visited children sanatoriums in 2009.
Gazprom Neft also continued the co-
financing of the Avangard hockey club, 
thus promoting professional sports in 
the region.
In addition, the Company supports 
Omsk farmers. with the commencement 
of sowing works, JSC Gazpromneft-
Omsk provided quality fuel needed for the seasonal works to farmers at reduced prices. 
LENINGRAD REGION
In 2009, Gazprom Neft for the 
first time signed the cooperation agreement with the Leningrad Region, another strategically important region for the Company. It was an 
important step in the development 
of cooperation. The agreement focuses, inter alia, on social programs, including support for sports activities, 
first of all, for children and youth. 
The Company financed the creation of a specialized football group at the Gatchina Pedagogical College. Additional funds were allocated for the reconstruction of the College’s sports ground. 
A modern 10 thousand-seat football 
stadium suitable for large regional competitions is to be constructed 
in Gatchina. The Company is going 
to participate in the financing of this socially important facility. 
ST.PETERSBURG
In 2009, Gazprom Neft continued to 
support St. Petersburg sports teams, 
including Zenit football club and SKA 
Saint-Petersburg hockey Club whose victories and achievements are the pride of the Company.
Gazprom-Neft is a largest taxpayer of 
St. Petersburg. In 2009, the Company received the Best Taxpayer of St. Petersburg diploma from the city Governor, Valentina Matviyenko. The Company headed the list of twenty organizations that made the greatest contributions to the city budget.
 
OThER REGIONS OF PRESENCE
The Company implements social 
projects in all priority areas under the cooperation agreements with other regions.
In 2009 Gazprom Neft concluded 
three years’ cooperation agreement with the Murmansk Region. The main cooperation areas include promoting investment, scientific and technical and innovation activity in the Murmansk Region.
JSC Gazpromneft-Tyumen provided 
support to more than 600 Tyument Region farms by supplying oil products 
at reduced prices during the spring 
sowing works.
The Company financed the construction 
of a school extension in Parabelsk 
District and repairs of a kindergarten 
in the village of Molodezhny, Kargasok District in Tomsk Region. with the aid provided by Gazpromneft-v ostok, 
schoolchildren from Kargasok and Parabelsk Districts visited children sanatoriums. 
These are only some of the Company’s 
projects whose importance for 
individuals as well as for the whole regions can hardly be overestimated. Gazprom Neft will further expand 
regional cooperation, increasing 
the number of social initiatives and improving their efficiency.
In 2009, CEO of Gazpromneft-Kuzbass 
Vladimir Mill was awarded the medal «For Business for the Sake of Creation». The award was established by the Kemerovo Region Administration for socio-political, economic, labor achievements as well as for social activities and charities for the socio-economic development of Kemerovo Region.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
69ChaRItIY
In addition to financing projects under 
socio-economic agreements, the Company provides targeted charitable 
aid.
The main charity programs of Gazprom 
Neft are:
 A«Support for Children and Youth»;
 A«Regional Cooperation»;
 A«Support for Sports».
Although the financial crisis compelled 
to revise the structure of the Company’s 
charity funds, all socially important projects were continued in 2009. The total budget of charity programs 
reduced as compared with the year 
2008, but in some regions the list of charity events even expanded. 
A portion of funds was allocated to 
children’s educational institutions. Thus, 
for example, in 2009 Gazprom Neft fully provided with computers a village school in Starodubki, Kalachinsky 
District, the Omsk Region.Just before the commencement of the 
school year Gazprom Neft’s subsidiaries and affiliates held a series of traditional charity events to help low-income families buy schoolbags, textbooks and 
stationery. 
One noteworthy sports event of the 
year was the 3rd Gazprom Neft Cup Ice 
hockey Children’s Tournament with the 
participation of teams from the Omsk and Tyumen Regions, Yamalo-Nenets and Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Districts, St. Petersburg. In 2009 the 
Tournament was held in Salekhard.
The Company continued charitable aid 
to sports organizations, including the 
Mini Football Federation of Yamalo-
Nenets Autonomous District.
During the year the Company provided 
charitable support to St. Petersburg’s 
cultural institutions, including 
Mikhaylovsky Theater and Oktyabrsky Grand Concert hall. ENERGY FOR LIFE
ENERGY  
FOR PEOPLEsaFE dEvELOP mENt: 
INdust RIaL aNd 
ENvIRON mENtaL 
saFEtY, 
OCC uPatIONaL 
hEaLth8
Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
72saFE dEvELOPmENt: 
INdustRIaL aNd ENvIRONmENtaL saFEtY, OCCuP atIONaL 
hEaL thSAFE DEvELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENvIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh
Improving industrial safety, occupational 
health and environmental well-being of the regions where Gazprom Neft 
operates is regarded by the Company 
unconditionally as components of its social responsibility and prerequisites for the successful implementation of the long-
term development strategy and efficient 
production management. The Company intends to be a leader in this area among world oil-and-gas companies, based on advanced management methods, innovative 
technologies, professional staff and 
constructive relations with the government and the public. The Integrated Safety, health, Environment and Civil Protection 
Management System currently implemented 
at the Company meets high international standards.stRatEGY  
aNd maNaGEmENt
The corporate hSE (health, safety, 
environment) Policy encourages all employees to reduce the frequency of 
injuries at work, occupational diseases, 
accidents and adverse environmental impacts, apply consistently the best international hSE practices at 
all Gazprom Neft enterprises, be 
personally responsible for one's own and other people’s safety. The Company is committed to complying with legal requirements and focusing on 
health, safety and environmental issues. 
These principles and approaches are 
reflected in specific commitments 
that ensure continuous improvement 
of the hSE management system in accordance with international and national standards, consistent work for improving working conditions, 
industrial and environmental safety and 
monitoring of the results of this activity.
Corporate hSE Policy covers all of 
Gazprom Neft’s subsidiaries and 
affiliates. In accordance with the world’s best practices the Company extends its requirements to relations with contractors, binding them to comply 
with the Policy when at Gazprom Neft’s 
sites and facilities.
«No economic, technical or other 
considerations may be taken into account, if they contradict the necessity to ensure safety of the production staff, population and the environment». (Gazprom Neft’s HSE Policy).The implementation of the declared 
principles and approaches is ensured by the principled position of the 
Company management, introduction of 
up-to-date management mechanisms, efficient technology solutions, and constructive contacts with the 
government, expert community, and 
public organizations. 
The Company has developed 
a program for introducing the hSE 
Policy and the Integrated health, 
Safety, Environment and Civil Protection Management System (hSE and CP) requirements. The implementation 
of this program began in 2008 
with the purpose of improving the incident record-keeping, creating a statistical base meeting international methodologies in order to tune the hSE 
activities to remedy system problems, 
the key causes of incidents. In 2009, an analysis of causes and frequencies of incidents was carried out on this 
basis and regulations were developed 
for a uniform approach to these issues at all Company enterprises, full and prompt information exchange between enterprises. Thus, a firm foundation was 
laid for a new quality of the Company’s 
activity in this area.
The Azimuth information and control 
system introduced at Gazprom Neft was highly appreciated by colleagues in the oil and gas industry. Azimuth integrates all HSE-related information and allows us to automate and standardize management reporting generation processes, enhance control over compliance with safety requirements. Information on incidents and actions is automatically distributed by the system 8JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
73to all necessary addresses. It ensures 
a qualitatively new level of transparency, promptness of response and a system approach to analyzing current information.
The Company management focuses 
on the development of hSE and CP management system, introduction of 
safe technologies. Compliance with 
relevant requirements is ensured by all management levels, from CEO down to a foreman, with the support of hSE and 
CP specialists.
Developing a responsible attitude of 
the staff to their own safety and that of other people, involving a wide range 
of employees in safety issues is an 
unconditional priority to the Company. Gazprom Neft has developed and implements a training program aimed 
at preventing incidents, injuries at 
work and occupational diseases. This program is targeted to all Gazprom Neft employees, including the management, and supplements 
the statutory forms of training. In 
2009, more than 700 managers and specialists of the Company received training in environmental legislation. Training in modern hSE requirements, safe driving in accordance with the corporate standards was provided to more than 14 thousand employees of 
subsidiaries and affiliates. The Company 
holds regular meetings for exchanging information and experience on safety issues.  
OCCuP atIONaL hEaL th 
aNd saFEtY
work at oil enterprises often involves 
potential danger. To minimize threats to the life and health of people, the 
Company works consistently to reduce 
professional risks and implements programs aimed at preventing injuries and occupational diseases. Account 
is taken of both technical and man-
caused components of risk, efforts are made to improve the ability to respond promptly and efficiently to emergencies and eliminate their 
consequences.
Gazprom Neft works systematically 
to identify and control harmful and 
dangerous industrial factors, evaluate workplaces. The employees are 
provided with individual protective gear. On-the-job training on occupational 
health and safety is organized. Even 
under difficult economic conditions the healthcare costs were not reduced. Occupational health is the area of cooperation between the Company 
management and trade unions. 
Reciprocal obligations on these issues are reflected in the collective agreements. 
REDUCING ThE FREqUENCY OF 
INJURIES AT wORK
Reducing the frequency of injuries 
at work is a key task in the field of occupational health. As the result of completing the first stage of 
introduction of the hSE Policy, priority 
standards were developed and injury statistics were analyzed. An internal investigations system was introduced, enabling identification of the system 
causes of incidents. In 2009, the 
incident transparency indicator increased twenty times as compared with the year 2007, reaching the level of 
the world’s leading oil companies.INtROduCtION OF thE hsE POLICY aNd hsE aNd CP INt EGRatEd  
maNaGEmENt sYstEm
2008 
Formation of the 
statistics base.
Better record-keeping 
of incidents.2009 
Development of regulations.
Training.Analysis of incidents, 
exchange of information.2010 
Better quality of investigations.
Industrial monitoring 
and audit.
Risk evaluation.Management system 
analysis.2011 
Introduction of corrective action plans.
Development of 
integrated projects and programs.2012 
System efficiency analysis and adjustment.
Launch of the 
continuous system and processes improvement mode.Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
74SAFE DEvELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENvIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh
In 2009, the fatal accident rates 
decreased. The injury rates did not change as compared with the previous 
level, which fact, taking into account 
the stricter requirements to record-keeping, evidences a noticeable positive trend
1.
EMPLOYEE TRAINING IN  OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh AND SAFETY
An analysis of incidents shows that 
the «human factor» is responsible for 
a considerable portion of cases such as falling from a height, falling on surfaces, jamming between rotating or moving objects. The training program aimed 
at preventing injuries and incidents, 
improving the efficiency of employee involvement in health and safety issues helps make Gazprom Neft’s health 
and safety standards a real everyday 
practical guide for employees. The program has been implemented since 2008. During its first year, training was provided by the corporate hSE and CP 
service as well as by instructors from 
specialized companies. About 1,000 employees at the most responsible production units participated in the 
program. In 2009, a new phase of the 
program was started with the institute of in-house instructors established at the Company. 122 in-house instructors were trained: 64 for hSE and CP 
programs and 58 for safe driving. In 
2009 they trained more than 7,000 employees of subsidiaries and affiliates in corporate hSE and CP programs 
and more than 7,000 employees in safe 
driving. 
One efficient form of training is regular 
working meetings and seminars 
on health and safety issues. The 
meetings are attended by managers of all levels, occupational health officers, representatives of regulatory 
agencies, leading experts. Contractors’ 
representatives are involved as well. It allows to discuss all goals in this area, to develop practical solutions, and the cooperation shemes between all 
stakeholders.On 3 December, Gazprom Neft’s 
Corporate Headquarters hosted a meeting of the Company’s fire and industrial safety specialists on the practical application of Federal Law No. 123-FZ «Technical Regulation on Fire Safety Requirements». The meeting was attended by more than 50 specialists from the Company’s regional enterprises. Representatives of federal authorities and potential fire safety contractors were also invited. The meeting participants discussed in detail the requirements of federal legislation to the development of fire safety declarations and fire risks assessment which had to be implemented by Gazprom Neft subsidiaries and affiliates in 2010. Based on the meeting results, the decision was made on the practical application of this Federal Law at the subsidiaries and affiliates. At the meeting necessary materials for work on site were distributed.
In June 2009, the seminar «hSE and 
CP Risks Identification, Evaluation and Minimization» was held in Noyabrsk. 
The seminar participants discussed 
the particularities of work under new international hSE and CP requirements adopted at Gazprom Neft. 
PRO vIDING EMPLOYEES wITh INDI-
vIDUAL PROTECTIvE GEAR
The Company has a corporate standard 
for individual protective gear. Based on the market analysis and operational tests, the catalogue of individual 
protective gear that may be purchased 
for the Company employees was formed. This catalogue is continuously updated. From 2009, the logistics units purchase only such individual 
protective gear that meets Gazprom 
Neft’s Specifications and corporate style. The working clothes purchased by the Company meet Oеko-Tex 
Standart 100, Russian and European 
safety requirements. Costs of acquiring individual protective gear amounted to 12.5 thousand rubles per employee a year. The Company purchases 
high-quality individual protective gear. 
For example, Gazpromneft-ONPZ purchased 500 newest fire-proof suits of special poly-meta-aramide fabrics. IMPRO vING TRANSPORT SAFETY
The Company has developed a standard to ensure road transportation safety. This standard provides stricter 
requirements to the registration of 
traffic accidents. At present, all traffic accidents, including minor ones and those occurring through the fault of third parties, are to be recorded. In-house 
investigations are carried out for traffic 
accidents. 
Safe driving courses are conducted 
on the continuous basis. In 2009, the 
training of in-house instructors was started for almost on-the-job training of drivers. An automobile training simulator was acquired to enable the drivers to 
develop practical skills for emergency 
1 The data quoted in this section applies to Gazprom Neft and its subsidiaries and affiliates in Russia and 
CIS, unless otherwise specified. 
SOURCE:
COMPANY
DATA
200730,23
12,39
2,53
2008 2009
SOURCE:COMPANYDATA
20071,36
0,76 0,76
2008 2009FataL a CCIdENts  
RatE (F aR)
LOss tImE INJuRY  
FREquENCY RatE  (LtIFR)Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
76SAFE DEvELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENvIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh
situations in as real conditions as 
possible. 
The first results of this program are 
encouraging, as the number of injuries in traffic accidents fell almost two times. 
INdustRIaL saFEtY
The safe operation of production facilities, prevention of accidents and the readiness to localize accidents and 
eliminate their consequences are both 
management and technical issues. The industrial safety management system at Gazprom Neft is built, in accordance 
with the requirements of regulatory 
agencies, and is aimed at reducing the risk of emissions and discharges of hydrocarbons and injuries at work. The corporate regulations and standards 
in this area are aimed at preventing 
equipment and constructions failures. The introduction of these standards with the simultaneous production 
modernization and introduction of 
advanced technology solutions helps to avoid serious consequences for the Company’s personnel, assets and the environment. No large accidents 
occurred at the Company in 2009.  
READINESS FOR EMERGENCY  
SITUATIONS
Gazprom Neft’s hSE and CP policy 
and standards are aimed at minimizing 
risks and preventing accidents. It is 
also very important for the Company to maintain a high level of readiness for 
emergency situations. The Company has developed an efficient and flexible structure of interaction between units 
for preventing emergencies and 
eliminating their consequences. The special emergency rescue teams set up for these purposes have up-to-date 
equipment and devices for rescue 
and other works. To maintain and check their readiness, regular drills and exercises are held. For an efficient response to possible emergencies, 
Gazprom Neft subsidiaries and affiliates 
cooperate with local bodies of the Ministry of Emergency Situations.
Employees participate in the exercises with the purpose of preventing emergencies and minimizing damage. 
In 2009, 57 such exercises were held 
at the Company. Most of them were aimed at extinguishing fires that may occur at the Company’s production 
facilities. 
On 10 July, forest fire extinction 
exercises were held at Gazpromneft-Khantos with the purpose to perfect joint actions of fire services in extinguishing a large forest fire threatening production facilities.
On 19 August, more than 300 oil refiners competed at Gazpromneft-ONPZ in rapid 
and correct use of fire-fighting, gas protection equipment, and provision of first aid.
SOURCE:
COMPANYDATA
20076 50012 20012 500
2008 2009INdIvIduaL PROtECtIvE  
GEaR ExPENsEs,  RuBLEs PER EmPLOYEEJSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
77REduCtION OF advERsE 
ENvIRONmENtaL ImPaCts 
aNd EFFICIENt usE OF REsOuRCEs
The operations of oil companies 
involve a high level of man-caused environmental impacts, including 
atmospheric emissions, use and 
pollution of water and lands. The Company’s environmental strategy provides for the minimization of 
these impacts, sustainable use of 
natural resources, and remedying of the environmental «legacy» of former times. The Company seeks to fully comply with the current 
environmental legislation, fulfill its 
license commitments and compensate environmental damage to the maximum possible extent. The Company pays 
much attention to the manufacture of 
products with improved environmental characteristics.
Ecological monitoring of the 
Company’s production facilities and 
natural environment is conducted systematically with the use of the latest analytical and information technologies. 
The Company’s enterprises have 
environmental analysis centers with laboratories monitoring the quality of soils, atmospheric air, water objects, waste water and drinking 
water. The current background 
pollution level is determined on the newly commissioned oil field. The Company’s environment observation 
and evaluation system enables timely 
identification of adverse man-caused changes and minimization of their effects.
Projects of the calculated sanitary 
protection areas of the Omsk and Moscow Oil Refineries were developed and approved in 2009. Based on these projects, calculated boundaries of the sanitary protection areas were set. Additional activities for reducing environmental impacts were developed within the framework of these projects.ENvIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  
EXPENSES
The Company allocates considerable 
funds for environmental measures, including equipment modernization, environmental monitoring, damaged 
lands rehabilitation, and environmental 
training of specialists. 
In 2009, despite an unstable economic 
situation, the Company continued 
investmenting in environmental 
impact reduction programs. The main investment priorities in this area are the higher APG (associated petroleum 
gas) utilization rate and production of 
environment-friendly fuels. 
ATMOSPhERIC EMISSIONS
Reducing atmospheric emissions 
is a strategic goal of the Company. It is especially important, given that 
Gazprom Neft is rapidly growing. 
The Company has developed and implements a set of programs for a phased reduction of harmful atmospheric emissions through 
equipment modernization, innovative 
technologies, advanced training of the personnel.Upstream enterprises account for most emissions. The production growth in this sector, commissioning 
of new facilities and acquisition of new 
production assets involved an increase in the gross atmospheric emissions in 2009 as compared with the previous 
year.
The Company’s enterprises keep 
working to reduce pollutant emissions by associated petroleum gas (APG) 
utilization. In 2009, the volume of burned 
APG decreased, notwithstanding the production expansion. 
The emission level kept reducing 
in the oil refining sector in 2009 as the result of environmental activities at Gazpromneft-ONPZ such as replacement of burners in process 
furnaces, equipment of tanks with 
up-to-date low-emission devices, and commissioning of a plant ensuring leak-proof loading of oil products.
Gazprom Neft seeks to build 
a constructive dialogue with all stakeholders. This dialogue is especially important when it concerns projects 
that are of significance to the Company 
and the general public. One such project was the «Joint Project for APG Utilization in the Ety-Purovskoye 
2007 2008 2009
Current costs 577,7 1 018,2 1901
including waste water treatment costs 349,1 138,8 392
waste treatment costs 43,7 197,3 327
water consumption costs 30,7 20,4 369
air treatment costs 12,6 10,8 460
Capital costs 29,9 261,4 172
2007 2008 2009
Gross atmospheric emissions, thousands 
of tons, including161,8 157,2 202
CO 73,0 69,3 74
NOx 10,7 10,4 12
SO2 12,5 12,2 20
Solid substances 3,6 4,7 13
volatile organic compounds (total) 54,3 32,1 61ENvIRONmENtaL ExPENdItuREs, mLN RuBLEs
atmOsPhERIC EmIssIONsEnergy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
78SAFE DEvELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENvIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh
Field» implemented in accordance with 
Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate 
Change. This project is a breakthrough 
for the Company in the Yamal Peninsula, as Yamal produces almost one half of its atmospheric emissions. The project 
also has an international importance 
as an example of cooperation for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. The mechanism of joint projects allows to attract investments from partner 
countries for the implementation of 
greenhouse gases emission reduction projects, improve their profitability, develop and introduce up-to-date 
technologies. The Company’s partners 
in this project are Mitsubishi Corporation and Nippon Oil Corporation, the authors and developers of the AM0009 methodology «Projects for recovery 
and utilization of gas from oil wells that 
would otherwise be flared.»
The project provides for collection of 
associated gas in the Ety-Purovskoye 
Field, which was formerly flared. APG is transferred by a specially built gas pipeline to the vyngayakha compressor station and then to the main pipeline 
connecting vyngayakha with the 
vyngapur compressor station located to the south-east. So, APG will be transported to SIBUR’s processing 
facilities. As the result of this project, 
greenhouse gases emissions will be reduced by about 750,000 tons of СО2 equivalent a year. 
In April 2009, public hearings on 
the project were held. A discussion on the purposes of the project and its effects for the Company and the 
region took place with the participation 
of Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz CEO Gennady Lyubin, SIBUR representatives, Deputy Mayor of Noyabrsk for Social Issues viktor 
Rebrov, Deputies of the Noyabrsk 
City Duma, oil industry specialists and environmentalists, representatives of the public and residents of Noyabrsk 
and Muravlenko, and mass media. 
Representatives of the project partners, Mitsubishi Corporation and Nippon Oil Corporation, attended the public hearings as observers. 
The hearings covered a wide 
range of issues from the quality of environmental improvements to the 
number of jobs to be created in course of the project. The hearings 
participants highly appreciated the way environmental risks were taken into 
account: the routes of future pipelines 
pass far from large bodies of water in order to minimize environmental impacts according to the strictest 
construction regulations and in full 
compliance with environmental requirements. Based on the results of public hearings, the project was approved and recommended for 
implementation.  
UTILIZATION OF ASSOCIATED GAS 
APG is a byproduct of oil industry. 
It is a valuable natural resource that may be used as a fuel, raw material for petrochemistry, or for re-pumping 
into the underground layer to 
increase oil production. Burning APG in flares means not only economic losses but environmental damage 
as well, because the greenhouse 
gases generated by burning APG involve a threat of climatic changes. An efficient use of APG has been recognized as an important goal on the 
national level. It requires serious efforts, 
new investments and appropriate infrastructure. APG utilization is yet another driver for oil industry 
modernization.
Gazprom Neft implements the Medium-
Term Investment Program for AG utilization and higher efficiency use 
(MTIP) for 2008-2010. The purpose of 
the program is to upgrade the APG utilization rate to 95% by the year 2012. In 2009, an updated Gas Program was prepared on its basis. Its main investment projects are construction of gas collection systems, power 
generation, APG metering, and low-
pressure gas utilization.
In 2009, a pipeline from the Ety-
Purovskoye field and the first stage 
of the gas turbine power plant in the South license territory of the Priobskoye field with the power of 48 Mw were constructed and put into operation. The 
development of a pipeline project for 
the Shinginskoye field was started. The implementation of MTIP allowed raising the APG utilization rate from 35.7% in 
2007 to 48.1% in 2009.
The management efficiency in 
this area will be improved by the automatic APG metering system, the 
design of which was completed in 
2009. This system will provide more reliable updated information on APG production and use. 
JsC GazPROm NEFt’s aPG utILIzatION ImPRO vEmENt PROGRam, % 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012SOURCE:
COMPANYDATA
35,746,8 48,1 49,36195Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
80SAFE DEvELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENvIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh
PRODUCTION OF FUELS wITh  
IMPRO vED ENvIRONMENTAL  
ChARACTERISTICS
The Company’s oil-refining sector 
works methodically to improve the environmental friendliness of its fuels, 
increasing their share in the total 
production volume. The new fuels produce lower sulfur dioxide emissions. In addition to the environmental effect, this activity will ensure a higher 
competitiveness of the Company’s 
products and facilitate the successful operation on new markets.
Technical modernization programs 
carried out in Gazpromneft-ONPZ and Moscow Refinery are to improve the quality and environmental characteristics of fuels.  
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  
AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Oil companies are not only energy 
suppliers. They also consume energy in producing and processing hydrocarbons and petrochemicals. In 
2009, the specific energy consumption 
at Gazprom Neft increased in connection with the intensification of operations. The Company’s total power 
consumption reduced from 5,536 million 
kwh in 2008 to 5,484 million kwh in 2009 (i.e. by 52 million kwh) due to reduction in the production of liquid by 1.9% and oil by 2.8%. 
The Company’s consumption of heat 
power rose from 314,000 Gcal in 2008 to 334,000 Gcal in 2009 due to colder 
weather conditions.
Gazprom Neft keeps working to 
improve its energy efficiency and use power resources in a rational way. 
The Company’s enterprises monitor 
energy consumption systematically and implement power saving programs. The economic effect of energy saving 
programs at Gazprom Neft’s oil-
producing enterprises is increasingly noticeable.At the same time, the Company develops its own power generating facilities. within the framework of the 
Program «Recovery and Improved 
Efficiency of Use of Associated Petroleum Gas» the Company builds its own generating facilities. At present, 
their aggregate power is 82 Mw and in 
2013 it is to be increased to 220 Mw. In 2010, Gazprom Neft will finish the construction of the second stage (48 Mw) of the gas turbine power station 
in the Yuzhno-Priobskoye field. This is 
especially important, given that with the Company growth and production intensification in all main sectors the 
demand for energy will increase.
 
USE OF w ATER RESOURCES
In 2009 water consumption for The Company’s own needs was up by 42 % compared to 2008 due to an increase in the volume of oil production and 
pumping of water into the layer for 
maintaining the layer pressure. 
The Company’s environmental services 
monitor the impact of production 
processes on bodies of water. Such 
monitoring enables assessment of the effect of production on bodies of water and, if necessary, to take measures 
for improving the local environmental 
situation. Minimizing such impacts is the purpose of the production updating currently going on at the Company. Thus, the modernization of the process 
condensate treatment unit in the 
KT-1/1 catalytic cracking plant, and reconstruction of the hv O-3 chemical 
water treatment unit with the change of 
the filter washing system from straight 
flow to reverse flow at Gazpromneft-ONPZ enabled a significant improvement of the industrial waste quality. At present, a project is being 
developed for the construction of a new 
process condensate treatment unit in fuel hydroforming plants and 43-103 plant. A treatment facilities reconstruction 
project is being developed at the Omsk and Moscow Refineries. Construction of advanced closed highly efficient treatment facilities will allow not only to improve the waste waters treatment quality, but also to reduce significantly the hydrocarbon emissions.
The waste waters that Slavneft-YaNOS 
discharges into the Volga River fully meet the requirements for Category I fishing waters. Its treatment facilities enable treatment of waste waters not only from YaNOS, but also from neighboring enterprises as well. All industrial wastes undergo full mechanical, physicochemical and biological treatment. 
 
wASTE TREATMENT
90% of the waste accumulated by 
the Company’s operations is low-hazard and practically non-hazardous (Class Iv and v). Most of the waste 
is drilling waste. In 2009, the volume 
of such waste increased due to production growth, additional drilling, and commissioning of new well pads. however, the growth of this indicator 
is caused not only by the real increase 
in the waste volume, but also by more careful record-keeping, in particular, the inventorying of sludge pits at 
Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz and at 
the Muravlenkovskneft branch.
The reduction of wastes, which 
inevitably produce an adverse 
environmental impact, is one of the 
most important environmental protection objectives and an important component for efficiency improvement.
Gazprom Neft solves waste problems 
by both minimizing the generation and maximizing the recovery of wastes.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
81Unique drilling waste treatment plant 
commissioned at Gazpromneft-Khantos. The Company develops the Priobskoye field in the water protection area where the surface disposal of drilling waste is prohibited. Based on a study of the world experience, the Company decided to apply the drilling waste utilization technology, pumping waste into underground layers.   The processing unit is built on the left bank of the Irtysh River. The waste processing technology used there had only been applied before in shelf fields. Solid and liquid drilling waste is discharged into special tanks. With the use of mechanical and chemical treatment, waste becomes a non-hazardous liquid which is subsequently pumped under pressure into a layer at the depth of about 2,000 meters. 
Gazpromneft-ONPZ, with its own 
facilities, processes 100% of the generated oil wastes, reusing them as a fuel oil component.  Moscow Refinery has extensive expertise in utilization of oil-containing wastes. Since 2003, the technology of bio-utilization has been applied to oil-slimes here. This technology is the most environmentally-friendly, and provides for remediation of 4 000 m3 annually. In 2009, development of a comprehensive program for utilization of oil-containing wastes accumulated in previous periods started.
New efficient petroleum product storage 
and transportation technologies include the mobile treatment facility for cleaning the inner surfaces of tanks from solid sediments.2007 2008 2009
Total water consumption, million m373,9 82,0 105,0
of which, from underground sources 31,4 36,6 59,0
from surface sources 41,1 44,1 46,0
Transferred to other consumers  
(without use)29,1 24,6 23,2
Share of multiple use of water 90,0% 85,5% 81,4%
Effluent discharge, thousand m39,11 21,8 38,0
Transferred to other consumers (after use) 8,42 7,0 11,0tOtaL watER CONsumPtION aNd dIsChaRGEs
2007 2008 2009
waste accumulation, thousands of tonnes 393 263 694
including danger class I 2 2 5
danger class II 0 0 0
danger class III 27 28 86
including oil slimes 23 85
danger class Iv 335 199 540
danger class v 21 32 63
Use of waste (including transfer for use to other entities), thousands of tons63 88 40
waste decontamination and burial 
(including transfer to other entities for decontamination and burial),  thousands of tons284 319 207
Balance of waste at the year-end, thousands of tons321 423 870wastE tREatmENtEnergy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
82SAFE DEvELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENvIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL hEALTh
LAND CONTAMINATION CONTROL 
AND REMEDIATION
The production activity of oil producing 
companies results in large areas of damaged lands, such as roads, transportation corridors, or sludge pits 
where drilling wastes are accumulated. 
These lands are to be decontaminated and remediated. 
Every year the Company develops 
damaged lands and sludge pits 
remediation programs providing for the following work stages:
 Adamaged lands inventorying;
 Aevaluation of soil pollution;
 Adevelopment of design documentation in accordance with environmental requirements;
 Aselection of the most efficient 
technology of damaged lands 
remediation;
 Aefficiency evaluation of remediation of oil-polluted areas and sludge pits 
involving independent experts. 
To remediate lands, the Company 
enterprises apply advanced technologies, use modern chemical and 
biological preparations as well as area-
specific perennial plants.
The approval and implementation of 
the remediation program for 148 ha of 
sludge pits and oil-polluted lands was the most important result of 2009. 316 million rubles were spent on sludge pits remediation. The efficiency of the 
remediation work was evaluated by 
independent experts and research centers.
Taking into consideration the high 
intensity of oil fields development, it is evident that reducing the area of damaged lands is an increasingly important objective. Gazprom Neft 
implements successfully the advance 
drilling program which allows us to leave undamaged the lands where no boundaries of the oil and gas zone are 
confirmed. This technology excludes 
the necessity of building additional sludge pits.2007 2008 2009
Damaged lands, ha
beginning of the year 10470,94 11521,10 11552
end of the year 11477,66 11551,85 22530
contaminated during the year 1175,517 210,91 11126*
remediated during the year 213,5 180,16 148
including oil-polluted lands, ha
beginning of the year 318,67 207,23 142
end of the year 195,63 141,638 146
contaminated during the year 41,76 38,40 61
remediated during the year 209,5 103,63 56
Number of sludge pits
beginning of the year 263 288 380
end of the year 288 380 324
built during the year 35 127 82
remediated during the year 10 35 138LaNd CONtamINatION CONtROL aNd REmEdIatION
* In connection with the damaged lands inventorying at Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz and 
Muravlenkovskneft, previously unrecorded damaged lands of an area of 9,000 ha were taken stock of, which accounts for significant growth of this indicator. sector Main types of 
wastewaste treatMent
Oil production  
and oil serviceDrilling waste Placement in specialized storage areas with subsequent reclamation. 
Processing of drilling waste to make 
secondary products (construction materials).
Pumping into a layer.
Oil processing Oil waste Processing.
Provision of oil 
productsSolid sediments in tanksCleaning of tank surfaces with subsequent processing of oil product 
residues removed from the tanks.wastE REduCtION IN vaRIOus sECtORsEnergy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
849
aPPENdIx. 
sELECtEd tERms  aNd aBBREvIatIONsAPPENDIX. SELECTED TERMS  
AND ABBREvIATIONS
EBItda
earnings before interest, depreciation 
and amortization.
IR GLOBaL RaNkINGs 
(IRGR) 
an overall international ranking 
system for IR-sites (corporate web-sites targeted to the investment 
community), online annual corporate 
reports, financial information disclosure procedures, corporate governance etc. The ranking is based on a study of 
public companies’ performance under 
the methodology developed by MZ Consult, a leading consulting agency for investor relations.
IsO 14001
the International Standardization Organization’s standard «Environmental  Management Systems. Requirements 
with Guidance for Use», 2004, one of 
the most widely used environmental management standards.
GRI — G3
the third version of the internationally recognized sustainable development reporting guidelines developed by the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
GRI 
the Global Reporting Initiative, an 
international organization with the principal purpose of developing and 
implementing an authoritative and 
trusted sustainable development reporting system that may be used by organizations regardless of their size, activity and location.
NO x 
nitric oxides.
sO 2
sulfur oxide.
assEts, ENtERPRIsEs 
in the context of the Report, subsidiaries and affiliates of Gazprom Neft JSC.
ChaRItIEs
voluntary activity for the transfer of property, including money, performance of works, provision of services and other 
support to individuals or legal entities 
on the selfless basis (gratuitously or on preferential terms).
CORPORatE 
hEadquaRtERs 
the managing company, Gazprom Neft 
JSC.
GRadE
a group of positions of approximately the same value to the Company, i.e. close by the level of functionality, 
competence, experience and 
responsibility requirements.
stakEhOLdERs 
all individuals and legal entities interested in the Company’s activity, which affect, or are affected by, the Company’s performance.
IRms 
Integrated Risk Management System. 
Risk management is a continuous 
regular process covering risk identification, assessment, monitoring and response on all levels within the Company.
COmP aNY 
in this Report JSC Gazprom Neft and all of its subsidiaries and affiliates.
CORPORatE 
COmmuNIC atIONs 
interaction, including information 
exchange, between the Company and its stakeholders.
wELL utILIzatION RatE 
the ratio of the actual operating time of the wells to their total calendar time over a certain period.
wELL Pad 
the limited oil/gas field area where a special site is prepared for the installation of a group of wells, oil and 
gas production equipment, auxiliary and 
personnel premises etc.
OIL sERvICE 
oil and gas field development service, including drilling of wells, assembly of rigs, arrangement of well pads, repairs 
of wells and drilling equipment etc.JSC GAZPROM NEFT 
SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2009
85OIL EquIvaLENt 
reference fuel.
sustaINaBLE 
dEvELOPmENt REPORtING 
the aggregate of systems and 
processes for collecting, consolidating and submitting information reflecting the 
balance between financial, operational, 
social and environmental aspects of the Company’s business, principles and mechanisms for taking account 
of the interests of a wide range of 
stakeholders, managing the interaction with them in attaining goals important for the Company and the society.
assOCIatEd 
(PEtROLEum) Gas (aPG) 
the mixture of various gaseous hydrocarbons solved in oil and emitted during its production.
addItIvEs  
substances added in small quantities to fuels and technical oils to improve their 
performances.
hsE
health, Safety and Environment.
CP
Civil Protection.
IPG
Individual Protective Gear.tEChNIC aL REGuLatION 
[IN thE RussIaN 
FEdERatION] 
the document (regulatory legal act) 
establishing mandatory requirements to the items liable to technical regulation (products, including 
buildings, constructions and structures, 
production, operation, storage, transportation, sale and disposal processes).
sustaINaBLE 
dEvELOPmENt
development which meets the needs 
of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet 
their own needs. (definition formulated 
by the UN International Commission for Environment and Development in the «Our Common Future» Report. quoted 
from the Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines. v ersion 3.0. GRI, 2006.)
khma O
Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug.
CFd
Central Federal District.
sLudGE PIt
the place where drilling wastes are stored.
YaNa O
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug.10Energy for life
ENERGY FOR PEOPLE
86CONtaCts  
aNd FEEdBaCkCONTACTS  
AND FEEDBACK
86Your feedback on the issues is very important for us.
To comment on the Report or ask any questions, you may 
contact us by phone, mail, e-mail or fax using the following contact details:GazPROm NEFt JsC
125 A Profsoyuznaya ul., Moscow, 117647, RussiaTel.: +7 (495) 777-3152, 662-7569Fax: +7 (495) 777-3151, 777-3142
Corporate Communications Department
dkk@gazprom-neft.com 
Other contacts are available at the Company’s web-site:
http://www.gazprom-neft.com/contacts/
You can also send an e-mail from the Company’s  
feedback page:http://www.gazprom-neft.com/feedback/1 0