SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
2016
CONTENTS
About Sustainable Development Strategy  34
ABOUT THE COMPANY HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENTSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 
AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTMESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS   6
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 
OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD  8
Gazprom neft today 12
Business model  14
Key financial and production results  15
Innovative activities  22
Product quality control and improvement  26
Engagement with customers  28
Supply chain  30
Goals for 2017  31Goals and results in 2016 58
Profile of personnel  59
HR management system  60
Employer brand 62
Remuneration and social support for personnel  63
Cooperation with trade unions  65
Personnel training and development  66
Professional skills development  68
Development of management and leadership skills  71
Knowledge management  72
Development of talent pool  73
Goals for 2017 75Corporate governance  40
Remuneration for members of the Board of Directors 
and Management Board  42
Information policy  42
Observance of human rights  43
Ethics and anti-corruption activities  44
Internal control and risk management  44
Stakeholder engagement  48
Corporate culture 53
Internal corporate communications  54
External communications  55SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ABOUT THE REPORT  2Goals and results in 2016 78
Policy and management  81
Supply chain responsibility  84
Stakeholder engagement  85
Industrial and occupational safety  88
Mitigating negative environmental impacts  
and the effective use of resources  93
Energy consumption and energy efficiency  105
Goals for 2017  110Appendix 1.  
Certification of the report by the non-financial  
Reporting board of the Russian Union of Industrialists  
and entrepreneurs  132
Appendix 2.  
Index of standard disclosures  133
Appendix 3.  
Definition of key terms and acronyms 143
Contact information and feedback  145
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT 
OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Goals and results in 2016 114
The Company and the regions: cooperation to meet  
sustainable development objectives  115
Stakeholder engagement  119
Social activities  121
Interaction with IPNR  129
Corporate volunteering  130
Goals for 2017 131The online version of the company’s 
Sustainable Development Report 
for 2016 is available at:   
csr2016.gazprom-neft.comAPPENDICESSAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, 
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY 
CONSERVATIONGAZPROM NEFT IS PLEASED TO PRESENT ITS REPORT 
ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES (HEREINAFTER – 
THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OR REPORT) 
FOR 2016. THE REPORT HIGHLIGHTS THE COMPANY’S APPROACH 
TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
AS WELL AS THE FOCUSES AND RESULTS OF ITS WORK TO MEET 
PRODUCTION, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
OBJECTIVES.
This is the Company’s ninth Sustainable Development Report. Gazprom Neft 
publishes its non-financial reports at the same time as its annual reports so 
it can present comprehensive coverage of its activities to solve economic, 
environmental and social problems in a strategic context.
For Gazprom Neft, preparing sustainable development reports 
is a tool of corporate governance and a significant component for stakeholder 
engagement. The Company believes it is essential to regularly provide 
stakeholders with comprehensive information about aspects of its activities that 
are significant for them and obtain feedback about the Report.
The 2016 Report is prepared in accordance with the basic version of Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines – GRI-G4 – and taking into account the provisions 
of ISO 26000:2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility)1. The GRI index of standard 
disclosures and ISO 26000:2010 indicators are presented in Appendix 2.
The Report presents information about Gazprom Neft PJSC and its subsidiaries 
and affiliates (hereinafter referred to as Gazprom Neft or the Company) 
for the 2016 calendar year. The Company’s financial position and operating results 
are presented using consolidated data from Gazprom Neft PJSC. The Report 
draws on the management and audited financial accounts of Gazprom Neft PJSC 
drafted in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS). Unless otherwise indicated in the text, data on the Company’s social 
and labour relations and its environmental performance include figures 
for Gazprom Neft PJSC and its subsidiaries and affiliates based in the Russian 
Federation and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).ABOUT THE REPORT
The Report details the Company's medium- 
and long-term plans. This information is forward-
looking in nature. The feasibility of the declared 
intentions depends on factors (economic, social, 
and legal) that are beyond the Company’s control 
or influence. The actual results may therefore differ 
from those indicated in the plans.
The Company employs the external assurance 
procedure for its Report to enhance the credibility 
of the presented information and to verify 
whether the approaches selected to highlight 
sustainable development matters are consistent 
with the principles of responsible business 
practices. In 2016, the Report underwent 
independent public assurance by the Non-
Financial Reporting Board of the Russian Union 
of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RUIE). 
The assurance certificate is published in Appendix 1.
The Report is published in Russian and in English.
1 Adopted  in the Russian Federation as GOST R ISO 26000-2012 .
2 A list of issues that are significant for internal and external 
stakeholders is presented in the ‘Significant Themes and Aspects 
of the Report’ table.The previous Sustainable Development 
Reports and other documents also available 
on the Company's website:  
www.gazprom-neft.com/social/reports/
2
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016When managing sustainable development activities and reporting in this area, 
Gazprom Neft focuses on aspects that are the most significant for the Company 
and its stakeholders. The list of these significant aspects and themes defines 
the content of the Report.
When determining significant themes and the corresponding indicators, 
the Company took into consideration the provisions of the UN Global Compact, 
the Social Charter of Russian Business as well as the following standards 
and studies:
 >international and Russian standards in corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
and sustainable development and non-financial report standards (ISO 26000, 
GRI–G4, G4 Sector Supplement);
 >studies on the industry-wide practice for the management of sustainable 
development and reporting in this area;
 >an analysis of the scope of the Company’s stakeholder engagement.
Principles used to determine the content of the Sustainable Development 
Report:
 >materiality; 
 >coverage of stakeholders; 
 >context; 
 >completeness; 
 >balance; 
 >comparability; 
 >accuracy; 
 >timeliness; 
 >clarity; 
 >reliability.
An analysis of the Company’s engagement with stakeholders was used 
to determine the themes and aspects that are significant for them as well 
as their materiality. The following was analysed in the process of identifying 
significant themes:
 >materials from a survey of employees (managers and specialists) as part 
of the preparation of this Report;
 >the results of employee feedback;
 >the results of an annual study of the Company’s social and psychological 
climate, minutes of meetings between employees and management, 
and team meetings;
 >materials from Gazprom Neft’s regular interaction with investors, the federal 
and regional authorities, business partners, non-profit and public 
organisations, experts and local communities;
 >materials from roundtables and public hearings in the regions;
 >recommendations and comments received by the Company as part 
of the public assurance of its 2016 Sustainability Report by the Non-Financial 
Reporting Board of the RUIE.KEY THEMES AND ASPECTS 
OF INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
Dialogues with stakeholders in the regions where 
the Company operates are an important feedback 
channel for highlighting significant aspects and themes 
of the Report. The Company held such dialogues 
in Orenburg and Khanty-Mansiysk in 2016.
The roundtable ‘Sustainable Development 
of Gazprom Neft and Contribution to the Development 
of the Orenburg Region’ was attended by representatives 
of the subsidiary Gazpromneft-Orenburg, the Company’s 
corporate headquarters, the legislative and executive 
authorities, big and medium-sized business, 
the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, 
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, universities, 
public organisations and the media. The event 
focused on the following themes: the Company’s 
approach to doing business in the Orenburg Region, 
the main problems and results of activities in industrial 
and occupational safety and the implementation 
of the ‘Native Towns’ social investment programme 
in the region.
The roundtable held in Khanty-Mansiysk, titled ‘Activities 
of Gazprom Neft and Sustainable Development 
in the Company’s Regions of Operations’, was attended 
by representatives of the subsidiary Gazpromneft-
Khantos, the Company’s corporate headquarters, 
the legislative and executive authorities of the Khanty-
Mansi Autonomous District-Yugra, the Russian Union 
of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, public and municipal 
organisations, Yugra State University and the media. 
The participants discussed the Company’s approach 
to doing business, the establishment of lean production 
and the implementation of the social investment 
programme in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District-
Yugra.
The roundtables also included a discussion 
of the Company’s Sustainable Development Report 
for 2015 and the significant themes and aspects 
of the 2016 Report. The discussion revealed that 
the current structure of the Report takes into account 
the interests of various stakeholders in a sufficiently 
balanced manner2. At the same time, a number 
of the participants expressed wishes that were taken into 
account when preparing the Report for 2016. In particular, 
this Report provides wide-ranging information 
about the Company’s large-scale investment projects, 
its social policy in the regions as part of socioeconomic 
cooperation agreements and the development 
of the ‘Native Towns’ social investments program.
ABOUT THE REPORT
3
www.gazprom-neft.comSIGNIFICANT THEMES AND ASPECTS OF THE REPORT1
Themes and aspects Priorities of internal 
stakeholdersPriorities of external 
stakeholdersJustification
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Company’s strategy Developing and implementing a flexible 
and competitive strategy taking into account internal 
and external stakeholders is key to the Company’s 
business stability and sustainability.
Investment programme Large-scale investment projects in oil production 
and refining are among the Company’s key priorities 
and an important factor in achieving its strategic goals.
Financial stability The Company’s financial stability enables it to meet its 
obligations to key stakeholders.
Production efficiency Boosting production efficiency is a major factor 
in the Company’s competitiveness.
Product quality Improving product quality helps to meet the growing 
demand among customers for enhanced attributes 
and strengthen the Company’s market positions.
Innovative activities Developing and introducing innovations is an important 
factor for preserving the Company’s technological 
leadership and improving its competitiveness.
INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
Safety of production processes and emergency 
preparednessThe Company’s production activities are fraught 
with potential safety risks. Safe production 
and absolutely no harm to people, facilities 
and machinery is a key priority for Gazprom Neft. Occupational health and care for employee health
ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY
Industrial environmental monitoring Industrial environmental monitoring and compliance 
with environmental legislation requirements 
are on the list of the Company’s environmental safety 
priorities.Compliance with environmental legislation 
requirements
Environmental impact of the Company’s activities 
at the Prirazlomnoye fieldThe Company’s production activities in the Arctic 
region and, in particular, on the Prirazlomnaya 
offshore platform could potentially impact the Arctic 
environment, flora and fauna.
Utilising energy and energy efficiency The production growth rates are due to the Company’s 
increased consumption of energy resources. To minimise 
the effect of this process, Gazprom Neft is working 
on improving energy efficiency and optimising the use 
of energy resources.
Sustainable use of natural resources The Company’s activities impact the environment 
and natural resources: water, air and soil. The Company 
is committed to their sustainable use, restoration 
and protection.
Greenhouse gas emissions Hydrocarbon production is fraught with the emission 
of harmful substances, in particular greenhouse gases.
4
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Themes and aspects Priorities of internal 
stakeholdersPriorities of external 
stakeholdersJustification
HUMAN CAPITAL
Equitable remuneration and social support for 
personnelA competitive system of remuneration and social 
support is a highly important factor in attracting 
and retaining employees.
Employee training and development Staff training and development provides the Company 
with skilled personnel in the present and future.
Labour relations and employment Meeting obligations to employees and attracting 
and retaining the best specialists ensure stability 
in the Company’s work and is a key factor in achieving 
its strategic goals.
COMPANY’S IMPACT ON THE REGIONS WHERE IT OPERATES 
Local community development programme Gazprom Neft contributes to the socioeconomic 
development of the regions in which it operates 
as a participant in economic activities, employer, 
taxpayer and social investor.
Import substitution programme The Company is actively working on import substitution 
and supporting domestic manufacturers, thus 
contributing to the development of the Russian 
and regional economies.
Local supplier development programme Cooperation with local suppliers contributes 
significantly to developing the competitiveness 
of the economy and labour market in the regions where 
the Company operates.
Rights of indigenous peoples The Company engages in activities in the territory 
of indigenous peoples of northern Russia.
The Company hopes to further develop a dialogue with stakeholders on matters concerning corporate social responsibility and sustainable 
development. We would appreciate feedback on these issues. You can contact us in any way you prefer using the information in the Contact 
Information and Feedback section.
1 The list includes themes that are significant for all subsidiaries.
ABOUT THE REPORT
5
www.gazprom-neft.comMESSAGE 
FROM THE CHAIRMAN 
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
6
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Gazprom Neft PJSC continued its progressive development in 2016. The 8.2% 
increase in hydrocarbon production was the best in the Russian oil industry. 
The Company launched the full-scale development of major fields in Yamal 
and on the Gydan Peninsula – Novoportovskoye and East Messoyakha – 
and increased the number of its refueling complexes at Russian airports. 
The Gazpromneft filling station chain is firmly in first place in terms of the average 
daily sales of petroleum products and continues to expand. 
While successfully meeting its production objectives, Gazprom Neft respects 
the principles of sustainable growth. The Company pays close attention 
to the introduction of personnel development programmes, the implementation 
of social projects in the regions where it operates, the sustainable use of natural 
resources and improving the level of environmental and industrial safety.
Specifically, advanced technical solutions were used to develop fields in the Arctic 
in order to minimize the burden on the fragile northern ecosystem. The useful 
utilisation of association petroleum gas is growing consistently and reached 95% 
at the Company’s fields in the Noyabrsk region in 2016.
As part of the ‘Native Towns’ comprehensive social investment programme, 
Gazprom Neft PJSC is creating conditions to improve the population’s quality 
of life by investing in the construction and maintenance of social infrastructure, 
improving urban areas and promoting the development of education, culture 
and sports in the Company’s regions of operation. Gazprom Neft PJSC 
implemented 165 projects under the auspices of the ‘Native Towns’ programme 
and carried out 287 charitable and volunteer events involving Company 
employees in 2016.
The ‘Multiplying Talent’ intellectual oil and gas-themed tournament for high 
school students generated a high level of interest last year. Some 1,800 students 
from different Russian cities took part in the tournament, a 50% increase 
from 2015. With Gazprom Neft’s support, Serbia hosted the Russian musical 
festival ‘Bolshoi’ – a landmark cultural event for both countries that is traditionally 
attended by students from Russian and Serbian music schools – for the fourth 
time. The KHL Gazprom Neft Cup international hockey tournament among youth 
teams – the biggest children’s hockey competition in Europe – entered its second 
decade.
Gazprom Neft’s achievements were primarily made possible by the efforts of its 
effective team of employees. I am confident that the Company will continue 
to successfully meet the objectives set by shareholders and progress towards 
achieving its strategic goals.
ALEXEY MILLER
Chairman of the Board of Directors  
Gazprom Neft PJSC 
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
7
www.gazprom-neft.comMESSAGE 
FROM THE CHAIRMAN 
OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
8
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The year 2016 was a rather difficult one for the Russian oil and gas industry 
in terms of macroeconomic conditions. Nevertheless, Gazprom Neft succeeded 
in meeting all its challenges, once again demonstrating its ability to carry 
out highly complex projects regardless of the impact of external factors 
and confirming its status as the industry leader based on key performance 
indicators.
Gazprom Neft strictly adheres to the principles of corporate social responsibility 
and sustainable development by investing in the development of human resource 
potential and environmental protection and implementing programmes to support 
the regions where it operates.
The Company devotes considerable attention to improving the production 
safety management system. As part of this focus, Gazprom Neft is consistently 
progressing towards its ‘Goal – Zero: No Harm to People, Property 
or the Environment’. In 2016, we managed to significantly reduce the number 
of workplace incidents while ensuring a decrease in the injury level. The Company 
also focuses on environmental protection issues. Gazprom Neft spent more 
than RUB 14 billion on environmental safety projects in 2016. Among the most 
important projects were the construction of technological and transport 
infrastructure in an effort to increase the utilisation level of associated 
petroleum gas and the implementation of the ‘Clean Territory’ project to improve 
the reliability of pipelines. The active development of the Company’s Arctic 
projects is being accompanied by the implementation of an ambitious programme 
to preserve biodiversity in Russia’s Arctic zone. The Moscow and Omsk Oil 
Refineries are carrying out major projects to build treatment facilities that aim 
to drastically reduce the environmental impact of their production activities.
Gazprom Neft plays a significant role in the socioeconomic development 
of the territories where it operates by acting as an investor, taxpayer 
and employer. The Company creates tens of thousands of jobs by implementing 
major new projects and supporting the development of existing assets. 
Gazprom Neft is consistently among the country’s most attractive employers 
with top positions in the ratings of leading Russian and international 
recruiting agencies. As part of our human resource development programme, 
we continuously seek to improve the employee motivation and professional 
growth system and develop training projects that use the most progressive 
and effective methods. In 2016, the Company launched the Gazprom Neft 
Corporate University, which aims to form a highly flexible and effective 
educational environment that meets the requirements of today and tomorrow. 
Total investment in the training and development of our Company’s personnel 
exceeded RUB 700 million in 2016. 
ALEXANDER DYUKOV
Chairman of the Management Board,  
CEO of Gazprom Neft PJSCTax payments by Gazprom Neft enterprises make up 
a substantial portion of regional and local budgets. 
While solving the most pressing and relevant 
problems of the regions where the Company 
operates as part of agreements on socioeconomic 
cooperation, Gazprom Neft also actively involves 
local residents in the process of positive 
transformations by initiating the development 
and implementation of social projects that aim 
to improve the quality of life. The ‘Native Towns’ 
social investment programme encompassed 
35 regions in 2016 as the Company’s total social 
investments surpassed RUB 4 billion.
We view these funds as investments 
in the future – the future of our regions of operation 
and the future of the Company itself whose 
successful development is inextricably linked 
with the regions where Gazprom Neft extracts 
and refines oil and where it has filling stations 
and petroleum storage depots, refueling complexes 
and bunkering terminals. The future of the Company 
lies in its employees being motivated, driven 
and confident in their own safety and tomorrow. 
I am confident that the impact of sustainable 
development factors on the successful 
implementation of Gazprom Neft’s long-term 
strategy will invariably continue to grow.
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
9
www.gazprom-neft.comABOUT THE COMPANY
Gazprom Neft is a vertically integrated oil company 
whose principal activities include the exploration, 
development, production and sale of crude oil and gas 
as well as the production and sale of petroleum products. IN TERMS OF PROVEN HYDROCARBON RESERVES ACCORDING 
TO SPE (PRMS) CLASSIFICATION, GAZPROM NEFT IS COMPARABLE 
WITH THE WORLD’S LARGEST OIL COMPANIES. 
MISSION 
To provide consumers with high-quality energy resources, conduct business 
honestly and responsibly, care for employees and be a leader in efficiency, 
ensuring the Company’s long-term and balanced growth.
STRATEGIC GOAL
To become a large, Russian-based international player that owns 
a regionally diversified portfolio of assets across the entire value chain 
and actively participates in regional development with a high degree of social 
and environmental responsibility. CORE BUSINESSES 
AND STRUCTURE 
OF COMPANY
EXPLORATION 
AND PRODUCTION 
OF OIL AND GAS
OIL REFININGMost of the Company’s crude oil production 
in Russia is carried out by its subsidiary operators: 
Gazpromneft-Noyabrskneftegaz, Gazpromneft-
Khantos, Gazpromneft-Vostok and Gazpromneft 
Orenburg. The subsidiary Naftna Industrija Srbije 
А.D., Novi Sad (NIS) develops fields in Serbia, 
Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary 
and Romania. The Company's international 
assets also include hydrocarbon exploration 
and production projects in Iraq, Venezuela 
and other countries. The Company has a share 
in the production of the following enterprises: 
Slavneft OGC (50%), Tomskneft VNK (50%), Salym 
Petroleum Development N.V. (50%), SeverEnergia 
(46.67% since 1 July 2015) and Northgas (50%).
Gazprom Neft is one of the leaders in the Russian 
industry in terms of oil refining and continuously 
improves the efficiency of production processes. 
Oil refining takes place at two oil refineries – 
the Omsk Oil Refinery, Moscow Oil Refinery 
and the NIS refiniring complex in Serbia. In addition, 
Gazprom Neft owns 50% stakes in Slavneft-YANOS 
and also has access to the processing facilities 
of Mozyr Oil Refinery. In Russia, the Company ranks second in terms of petroleum product sales 
and is among the top four leaders in terms of oil production and refining. 
Gazprom Neft’s capitalisation stood at more than one trillion roubles 
as of 31 December 2016. The Company operates in Russia’s largest oil and gas 
regions and also has production projects outside of Russia in such countries 
as Iraq and Venezuela, among others. The Company’s primary refining facilities 
are located in Russia’s Omsk, Moscow and Yaroslavl Regions in addition to Serbia. 
Gazprom Neft is currently a major player on the energy market. The Company 
produces and supplies a broad range of petroleum products for a number 
of industries both in Russia and abroad.
The full structure of Gazprom Neft PJSC is presented 
in the Company’s Annual Report for 2016 ,  
ar2016.gazprom-neft.com/profile/structureGAZPROM NEFT 
TODAY 
 >The development of the Arctic shelf and hard-to-recover resources
 >Cost-effective refining with minimal environmental impact
 >High-quality raw materials and end products for consumers in Russia 
and around the world
 >The creation of high-tech and innovative products
 >The introduction of the most advanced industrial safety systems
 >A factor of stability in the regions of operationGAZPROM NEFT TODAY MEANS:
12
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016REGIONS OF OPERATION
SALE OF OIL AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Gazprom Neft offers wholesale and retail sales of oil and petroleum products on the Russian and international 
markets. The Company operates its own network of filling stations in 37 regions of Russia as well as countries 
of the CIS and Eastern Europe. 
The Company has spun off its businesses into individual units to improve the effectiveness of petroleum product 
sales: the wholesale of light petroleum products in the Russian Federation, retail and corporate sales at Russian 
filling stations, bunkering, the supply of fuel, aviation kerosene and lubricants for aircraft, the sale of lubricant 
materials and the production and sale of bitumen products. The Company’s specialised subsidiaries handle these 
types of operations.
Gazprom Neft is a major Russian manufacturer of a number of basic petrochemical products – aromatic 
hydrocarbons (benzene, paraxylene, orthoxylene and toluene) and propane-propylene fraction products (propylene 
liquefied petroleum gas). Basic petrochemical products are manufactured at all Gazprom Neft oil refineries (Omsk, 
Moscow and Yaroslavl). The production of petrochemical products for further stages of added value (polypropylene) 
takes place at integrated enterprises.The online version of the Annual Report contains additional information 
about the distribution by region of: 
 >new projects; 
 >geological prospecting; 
 >production projects; 
 >refining and sales assets; 
 >average number of employees.
The Company 
operates 
its own network 
of filling stations 
in 37 regions 
of Russia  as 
well as countries 
of the CIS 
and Eastern Europe.  >Russia
 >Republic of Belarus 
 >Bosnia 
and Herzegovina 
 >Venezuela 
 >Iraq
 >Italy 
 >Kazakhstan
 >Kyrgyzstan 
 >Latvia 
 >Romania
 >Serbia
 >Tajikistan 
 >Estonia
ABOUT THE COMPANY
13
www.gazprom-neft.comBUSINESS MODEL
GAZPROM NEFT’S VERTICALLY INTEGRATED BUSINESS MODEL, WHICH INCLUDES TWO 
ENLARGED SEGMENTS – UPSTREAM (EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION) AND DOWNSTREAM 
(REFINING AND SALES), IS COUNTER-CYCLICAL: ANY CHANGES IN OIL PRICES INCREASE 
PROFITABILITY IN ONE SEGMENT OR THE OTHER. BY CONSISTENTLY DEVELOPING 
ADVANTAGES IN EACH SEGMENT, GAZPROM NEFT ACHIEVES THE BEST OPERATING 
EFFICIENCY AMONG RUSSIAN VIOCS. THE COMPANY’S SUSTAINABLE POSITION ENABLES 
IT TO CONTINUE IMPLEMENTING AND DEVELOPING CORE PROJECTS, WHICH IN TURN 
CREATES CONDITIONS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMPANY'S 
STRATEGY.  
KEY SUCCESS FACTORS
 >Production growth through the launch of three new ambitious projects
 >Maintaining production levels at mature fields by introducing technological 
solutions
 >Improving drilling efficiency through the use of new technologies
 >A portfolio of long-term projects to further increase productionUPSTREAM DOWNSTREAM
 >Among the best oil refining efficiency indicators 
in Russia
 >Favourable location of oil refineries ensuring 
the sale of petroleum products with reasonable 
logistics costs, including a significant share 
in production areas 
 >Internal network of high-margin sales 
and product distribution 
View the Gazprom Neft business model  
in the Annual Report for 2016:  
ar2016.gazprom-neft.com/strategic-report/business-model
14
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016PERFORMANCE GOALS AND RESULTS IN 2016 
Goal Result
Implementation of major projects nearing completion The ‘Gates of the Arctic’ terminal was launched at the Novoportovskoye field 
along with year-round oil shipments.
Thanks to advanced production drilling, the full-scale development of the East 
Messoyakha field began ahead of schedule and the first batch of oil was fed into 
the pipeline system in September 2016.
A two-fold increase in production at the Prirazlomnoye field in the Pechora Sea 
and the commissioning of new production and absorption wellsProduction at the Prirazlomnoye field increased by 150% compared with 2015. 
A total of 2,154,000 tonnes of the ARCO oil blend (Arctic Oil) was obtained 
at the Prirazlomnoye field in 2016.
The establishment of a new logistics route for exporting oil from Arctic 
fields via the Northern Sea Route. Construction of a trans-shipment hub 
at the Murmansk portThe new oil transportation logistics arrangement was launched 
in February 2016. A transhipment hub was set up in Kola Bay.
Keeping all options open for the development of the resource base to support 
new areas of production The main factor that made it possible to increase the resource base was the use 
of new technologies in production drilling as well as the more efficient planning 
of geological exploration work. Three new fields and 26 hydrocarbon deposits 
were opened at the group’s license areas in 2016.
The establishment of strategic and technological partnerships for the joint 
development of fields in Russia and abroad and to improve the efficiency 
of hydrocarbon productionA meeting was held with China National Offshore Oil Corporation 
about the development of the North Wrangel and Heiss license areas. 
A cooperation agreement was concluded with DeGolyer and MacNaughton. 
A memorandum on mutual understanding was signed with Japan’s JOGMEC 
on cooperation as part of geological exploration and hydrocarbon production 
projects in Russia.  
Investment in current production projects with a short payback period 
to maximise cash flows in coming yearsGoal achieved. For more, see the ‘Key financial and production results’ 
subsection of this chapter.
Construction of a primary oil refining complex at the Omsk Oil Refineriy 
and Complex installation of oil processing ‘EURO +’ at the Moscow Oil RefineryThe Moscow Oil Refinery continues to build a Euro+ facility. New equipment 
was installed at the Omsk Oil Refinery in October 2016.
Continued implementation of a project to set up the production of modern 
cracking and hydroprocessing catalysts in OmskGazpromneft – Catalytic Systems LLC was established within the Company 
to implement the project to set up the production of catalytic cracking catalysts 
and hydroprocessing catalysts. 
Pilot testing of oligomerisation catalysts A new oligomerisation catalyst was introduced as part of a methyl tert-butyl 
ether facility (Moscow Oil Refinery). The output of high-octane oligomerizate 
was increased by 3%, while the cycle length of the catalyst’s operation was 
increased by 150%.
Launch of a solid acid alkylation test bench Construction was completed on a solid acid alkylation pilot production unit 
at Elektrogorsk Institute of Petroleum Refining PJSC.KEY FINANCIAL 
AND PRODUCTION RESULTS
Continued on next page
ABOUT THE COMPANY
15
www.gazprom-neft.comGoal Result
Industrial testing of the hydrotreating catalyst reactivation process The Omsk Oil Refinery successfully performed industrial testing on a diesel fuel 
reactivation hydrotreating catalyst.
The catalyst demonstrated 100% reactivation from the initial catalyst 
with the stable production of class 5 diesel fuel with a sulphur content of up 
to 10 ppm.
The implementation of the most profitable projects for the development 
of the sales businessGoal achieved. For more, see the ‘Key financial and production results’ 
subsection of this chapter.
Balanced investment activities in foreign development projects with the ability 
to intensify operations in the medium term taking into account international 
risksGoal achieved. For more, see the ‘Key financial and production results’ 
subsection of this chapter.
The development of targeted automated processes for the quality control 
and accounting of petroleum products in order to eliminate the human factorThe Company has begun replicating the Khimsoft laboratory control 
system (LCS) to automate the testing of petroleum products and improve 
the effectiveness of the quality management system.
The construction and commissioning of a zeolite stabilisation unit and liquefied 
gas storage at the Omsk Oil RefineryA zeolite stabilisation unit and liquefied gas storage facility were built.
The development and introduction of high-efficiency cracking, hydrotreatment 
and hydrocracking catalysts that meet modern oil refining requirementsGazprom Neft began producing new Avangard catalytic cracking catalysts 
at the Omsk Oil Refinery in August 2016. Upon completion of industrial testing, 
the new generation catalysts are scheduled to be used at the Moscow Oil 
Refinery.
The organisation of work by a research centre based at Gazpromneft-Ryazan 
Bitumen MaterialsIn September 2016, Gazpromneft-Ryazan Bitumen Materials established 
Russia’s largest and most advanced specialised bitumen materials scientific 
research centre.
The introduction of the research method for developing transmission oils 
at the oils and petrochemical laboratory of the Omsk Lubricants PlantThe method was developed and put into operation.
The assimilation of a pilot plant to develop greasing technology 
and implementation of a research programme to develop new and improve 
existing lubricant manufacturing technologiesPilot unit developed. 
16
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GAZPROM NEFT IS CONFIDENTLY ATTAINING ITS LONG-TERM GOALS 
WHILE DEMONSTRATING SUSTAINED GROWTH IN PRODUCTION 
AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE DESPITE ADVERSE ECONOMIC 
CONDITIONS.
Each year the Company is one of the leaders in the hydrocarbon production 
industry, maintains a high level of refining volumes, shows strong financial 
results and demonstrates steady growth in sales and the effectiveness of its 
premium sales channels. Given the financial instability and economic slowdown, 
the Company’s efficiency has become key to the sustainability of its business.
Over the past two years, the Company has become the leader in operating 
efficiency in Russia. Our next goal is to become one of the global leaders 
in terms of efficiency. As part of developing this area, the Company is introducing 
the operating activities management system (OAMS), which contributes 
to the overall development of the organisation and covers such important 
areas as improving safety in the workplace, reliability of assets and efficiency, 
and optimizing the Company's operations as a whole. The OAMS is designed 
to integrate these activities into a single system and strengthen the links 
between various systems, standards and regulations.
Thanks to a highly efficient business model and timely response to external 
changes, the Company has maintained stability and investment appeal. PROACTIVE RESPONSE 
TO EXTERNAL CHALLENGES:
Exploration and production:
 >monitoring of expenses, optimisation 
of the development of mature fields 
and the implementation of import substitution 
programmes; 
 >development and replication of new technologies 
in order to increase the oil recovery factor 
and integrate hard-to-recover reserves into 
development;
 >development of major projects on land 
(Novy Port and Messoyakha, among others) 
and projects on the shelf of the Russian 
Federation;
 >expanding competencies to work 
with unconventional reserves.
Refining and sales:
 >implementation of oil refinery 
modernisation projects; 
 >development of premium sales channels 
and maximising added value as part 
of the existing petroleum products resources.
General areas of work:
 >cooperation with the government authorities 
on the reform of the fiscal system and matters 
concerning the development of the industry;
 >improvements to the operational activity 
management system and maximising operating 
efficiency by enhancing the reliability and safety 
of production and also involving employees 
in the culture of continuous improvements. 
The ‘Goal – Zero’ is highlighted separately 
as part of systematic improvements to ensure 
a continuous increase in safety levels 
and consistently reduce accident rates, 
occupational injuries and occupational diseases.
ABOUT THE COMPANY
17
www.gazprom-neft.comKEY OPERATING INDICATORS
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Proven hydrocarbon reserves (PRMS-SPE), mn TOE11,200 1,343 1,443 1,518 1,514
Production of commercial hydrocarbons by the Gazprom Neft 
Group, mn TOE 59.71 62.26 66.25 79.70 86.2
Oil refining, mn t 43.34 42.63 43.48 43.07 41.89
Oil sales, mn t 17.95 14.24 13.72 16.61 22.71
Petroleum product sales, mn t 44.03 45.74 48.3 44.84 43.59
Sales via premium channels, mn t  22.56 23.98 25.79 25.7 25.16
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS (RUB mn)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Sales 1,519,450 1,504,037 1,690,557 1,655,775 1,695,764
Sales revenue 1,232,649 1,267,603 1,408,238 1,467,943 1,545,608
Adjusted EBITDA 323,106 336,752 342,614 404,811 456,198
Net profit 184,152 186,720 126,656 116,198 209,725
Capital investments 169,213 208,611 271,330 349,036 384,817
The Company is increasing its reserves as well as the volume and efficiency 
of production at its own and shared assets, and explores, develops and produces 
oil and gas in Russia as well as in countries outside the former Soviet bloc. 
In 2016, Gazprom Neft maintained its position among Russian oil companies 
as an industry leader in terms of oil and gas production. Commercial hydrocarbon 
production increased 8.2% to 86.2 million TOE compared with 2015.
The Company has achieved its results due to:
 >for current assets – further drilling of the Priobskoye field and Orenburg 
assets; 
 >for major projects – increased production at the Prirazlomnoye 
and Novoportovskoye fields and at assets belonging to SeverEnergia LLC 
(Arcticgas), Northgas CJSC and Badra.
Gazprom Neft assumed the leading position in the industry in terms of oil 
production growth rates among Russian oil companies in 2016. Oil production 
increased by 7.2% over the reporting year.
The Company is actively developing its gas business with a focus 
on commercialising the reserves of associated and natural gas produced at fields. 
The Gazprom Neft Group’s gas programme envisages accelerated growth 
in gas production in Russia. Total gas production by the Company amounted 
to 32.82 billion m3 in 2016.
1 Data does not include reserves and production of NIS.EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTIONCOMMERCIAL HYDROCARBON PRODUCTION  
(mn TOE)
Source: Company data
GAS PRODUCTION (bn m3) 
Source: Company data2014
20122015
20132016 86.20
59.7162.2666.2579.70
2014
20122015
20132016 32.82
11.1214.5517.6829.92
18
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GAZPROM NEFT REFINED 41.89 MILLION TONNES OF OIL IN 2016, 
MAINTAINING ITS POSITION AS ONE OF THE LEADERS AMONG 
RUSSIAN OIL COMPANIES IN TERMS OF REFINING VOLUME.
The Company continued to implement a modernisation programme for its oil 
refineries that aims to improve their crude refining efficiency, increase the depth 
of oil refining and enhance production and environmental safety. Gazprom Neft 
carried out projects at the Omsk and Moscow Oil Refineries to build advanced oil 
refining facilities as well as a number of environmental projects.
The Company established Gazpromneft – Catalytic Systems LLC to develop 
its new business for the production of oil refining catalysts. In 2020, the Company 
plans to launch the largest complex for the production and maintenance 
of catalysts for catalytic cracking, hydrotreatment and hydrocracking in the CIS.
STRUCTURE OF GAZPROM NEFT PETROLEUM PRODUCT PRODUCTION (mn t)
Source: Company data
  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Motor petrol 8.96 8.92 8.84 9.08 9.18
Technological petrol 1.30 1.47 1.36 1.45 1.56
Diesel fuel 11.51 12.09 12.15 11.87 12.02
Jet fuel 2.67 2.69 2.99 3.00 3.04
Marine fuel 3.38 3.31 4.08 3.67 2.41
Fuel oil 8.78 7.48 7.39 7.20 6.72
Bitumen and coke 1.72 2.09 2.03 2.02 2.19
Other 2.69 2.50 2.80 2.81 2.83
Total 41.01 40.55 41.64 41.10 39.95OIL REFINING
The increase in the output of marginal products 
versus 2015 with comparable volumes of oil 
refining is evidence of the improved operating 
efficiency of the Moscow Oil Refinery. 
The growth in the depth of refining makes 
it possible to reduce energy and resource 
consumption to produce an increasing amount 
of modern ecological products and to ease 
the Company's impact on the environment.
Arkady Yelizaryan
CEO of Gazpromneft – Moscow Oil Refinery
ALSO IN THE REPORTING YEAR
At the Omsk Oil Refinery:
 >Projects are continuing to increase oil 
refining depth that include the construction 
of an advanced oil refining complex 
and a delayed coking unit.
 >A number of environmental projects were 
continued, including the construction 
of a complex of treatment facilities, a process 
condensate purification unit and a catalytic 
cracking regeneration gas treatment unit.
 >Reconstruction of catalyst production 
and a sulfuric acid alkylation unit, and an LPG 
park was built.
At the Moscow Oil Refinery:
 >Continued construction of a sulphurous 
alkaline waste and process condensate 
treatment unit and biological treatment facilities 
(the Biosphera project).
 >Continued construction of a Euro+ advanced oil 
refining unit and the reconstruction of a catalytic 
cracking unit.
ABOUT THE COMPANY
19
www.gazprom-neft.comOIL AND PETROLEUM 
PRODUCT SALES
In 2016, the Company supplied 7.43 million tonnes of oil to the domestic market, 
or 1.29 million tonnes more than in 2015. Total oil sales increased by 36.7% versus 
2015 to 22.71 million tonnes.
The higher sales in the Russian Federation are due to the improved efficiency 
of trading operations on the domestic market and increased production 
in the Orenburg region. Increased oil production at the Novoportovskoye 
and Prirazlomnoye fields and the start of production at the Messoyakha field led 
to increased oil exports.
The Company sold 43.6 million tonnes of petroleum products in 2016, 
a 2.8% decrease from 2015. On the domestic market, the Company’s sales 
units sold 27.11 million tonnes of petroleum products (-1.4% versus 2015). 
At the same time, motor fuel sales increased by 2.7% on the domestic market 
to 16.82 million tonnes. PETROLEUM 
PRODUCT SALES 
FOR RETAIL 
AND BY PRODUCT 
BUSINESS UNITS
RETAIL SALES
The development of the petroleum product 
retail sales segment is one of the key focuses 
of the Company’s activities. One of the Company’s 
strategic goals is to be a leader in Russia and the CIS 
in terms retail sales volume and the efficiency 
of the filling station network by 2025.
Having its own national brand as well as a high 
level of awareness and trust in the quality of its 
product is a key factor for success in achieving 
this goal. According to research by the companies 
TNS and Nielsen for 2015, the Gazpromneft 
filling station network is among the top two 
in terms of key marketing indicators in the regions 
where it is present. The ‘Going the Same Way’ 
loyalty programme is currently the most popular 
and widespread among Russian fuel retailers 
and is used by more than 6.4 million drivers.
As the size of the motor fuel market in Russia declines 
overall, Gazprom Neft’s highly efficient filling station 
network is demonstrating stable growth in terms 
of the volume of petrol and diesel fuel sales. Total 
sales increased by 2% to 10.4 million tonnes, including 
8.2 million tonnes in Russia, in 2016.OIL SALES (mn t)
Source: Company data
  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Sales in Russia 1.26 1.85 3.96 6.14 7.43
Exports to non-CIS countries 14.12 8.29 8.47 8.11 12.89
Exports to the CIS 2.50 4.05 1.16 1.88 1.66
International sales 0.07 0.05 0.13 0.48 0.73
Total 17.95 14.24 13.72 16.61 22.71
In 2016, the Gazpromneft filling station chain won 
the annual award ‘Consumer Rights and Quality 
of Service’ for the third time. The company 
received awards in the nominations ‘Retail 
Services’ (in the ‘Gas Stations’ category) 
and ‘Customer Choice’.AWARDS FOR THE GAZPROMNEFT FILLING STATIONFor more details on the sale of oil and petroleum products  
see in the Annual Report for 2016:  
ar2016.gazprom-neft.com/results/distribution
20
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 20162012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Premium channels 22.56 23,98 25.79 25.70 25.16
Non-premium channels 21.47 21.76 22.51 19.14 18.43AVERAGE DAILY SALES VIA FILLING STATIONS (t/day)
Source: Company data 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Russia 17.60 18.98 19.98 19.15 19.26
CIS 12.40 14.24 13.84 13.63 14.90
NIS 4.50 5.20 5.03 5.51 5.89In 2016, three of Gazprom Neft’s diesel 
fuel brands produced at Omsk Oil Refinery 
were awarded gold diplomas at the national 
competition ‘100 Best Goods of Russia’ 
in the ‘Industrial Goods’ nomination. All diesel 
fuel produced at Omsk Oil Refinery meets 
the Euro-5 emissions standard.‘100 BEST GOODS OF RUSSIA’ SALES OF PREMIUM PRODUCTS
Premium sales decreased by 2.1% to 25.16 million tonnes during the reporting 
period due to the ongoing negative trends on the jet fuel supply and bunkering 
markets in Russia. The capacity of the retail markets for jet fuel and bunkering 
shrank by 7.7% and 25.3%, respectively. 
Nevertheless, the Company’s successful development of premium sales channels 
and expansion in the geography of supplies and the range of premium products 
it manufactures made it possible to increase its share on the retail markets 
for most petroleum products, including the markets for aviation kerosene, 
lubricants and premium bitumen materials.
Gazprom Neft continued to develop sales of its 
premium branded fuel at its filling station network 
during the reporting year. The Company sold 
594,000 tonnes of G-Drive 95 premium fuel in 2016, 
which accounted for 27% of total Ai-95 sales. Sales 
of G-Drive 98 premium class motor fuel totalled 
62,000 tonnes.
The Company increased sales of premium branded 
fuel at its filling stations by 5% in 2016. The number 
of filling stations offering G-Drive 95 increased 
by 84 stations to 1,149 filling stations in 2016 
compared with 2015. Approximately 30% of high-
octane petrol customers purchased G-Drive during 
the reporting period. 
Environmental friendliness and cost-effectiveness 
play a key role in municipal and commercial 
transportation in large cities, making these 
segments major consumers of gas engine fuels. 
Gazprom Neft pays close attention to developing 
sales of gas engine fuels, in particular liquefied 
petroleum gas (LPG) and compressed natural gas 
(CNG). The Company increased sales of LPG by 9.5% 
to 115,000 tonnes in 2016, while sales of CNG 
expanded by 2.5% to 17.5 million m3. 01020304050
43.59 44.8448.3045.7444.03
Total small-scale wholesale and retail sales increased by 4.8% in 2016 compared 
to the previous year and amounted to 19.26 million tonnes. The Company 
managed to increase premium sales both on the domestic market as well 
as the foreign markets where the Company has a sales network.
PETROCHEMICALS
Gazprom Neft is a major Russian manufacturer of a number of basic 
petrochemical products – aromatic hydrocarbons (benzene, paraxylene, 
orthoxylene and toluene) and propane-propylene fraction products (propylene 
liquefied petroleum gas). Basic petrochemical products are manufactured at all 
Gazprom Neft oil refineries (Omsk, Moscow and Yaroslavl). The production 
of petrochemical products for further stages of added value (polypropylene) takes 
place at integrated enterprises – Neftekhimiya NPP (Moscow) and Poliom LLC 
(Omsk). In 2016, both integrated enterprises achieved record levels of equipment 
productivity and polypropylene production: 130,000 tonnes at Neftekhimiya NPP 
and 203,000 tonnes at Poliom LLC. Taking into account the Company’s stakes 
in these assets, Gazprom Neft’s polypropylene production increased by 7% 
in 2016 versus the previous year and totalled 116,000 tonnes.TOTAL PREMIUM SALES BY PRODUCT BUSINESS UNIT IN RUSSIA  
AND ABROAD (mn t)
Source: Company data
ABOUT THE COMPANY
21
www.gazprom-neft.comINNOVATIVE 
ACTIVITIES
ONE OF THE PRIORITIES FOR GAZPROM 
NEFT’S INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENT 
IS TECHNOLOGY THAT ENSURES 
THE COMPANY ACHIEVES ITS 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: GROWTH 
IN PRODUCTION TO 100 MILLION TONNES 
OF OIL EQUIVALENT PER YEAR (BY 2025) 
AND THE IMPROVED TECHNOLOGICAL 
EFFICIENCY OF OIL REFINING.
The Company has introduced a long-term 
technological planning system that identifies long-
term technological challenges and the solutions 
needed to deal with them.
In 2016, the Company updated its Innovative 
Development Programme, which now extends 
to the period until 2025. The Programme’s key 
projects focus on introducing a set of technologies 
to enhance well productivity, developing 
the Bazhenov formation, improving tertiary methods 
for increasing oil recovery at depleted fields 
as well as developing and manufacturing catalysts 
for refining. Production automation projects 
in the oil production and refining segments are also 
an important part of the Innovative Development 
Programme.INNOVATIONS IN EXPLORATION 
AND PRODUCTION
The Company has had a Technological Strategy for exploration and development 
since 2014 which specifies the main technological challenges and key areas 
of innovative development in exploration and production. The key technological 
challenges include integrating hard-to-recover and unconventional hydrocarbon 
reserves into development, increasing oil recovery at mature fields, developing 
carbonate and fractured reservoirs and improving drilling efficiency. More than 
50 technological projects have been launched as part of the Technological 
Strategy.High-tech wells accounted for more than 50% of the Company’s total drilling 
volume in 2016. The effectiveness of the new methods was enhanced 
by the renovated Drilling Support Centre (DSC), which began working 
at the Scientific and Technical Centre in 2016. The DSC can support 
the construction of 600 wells of any complexity per year, including objects 
with heavy loads, extended horizontal sections and superdeep wells. In addition, 
the Centre monitors the drilling of all wells that focus on the birthplace of hard-
to-recover hydrocarbon reserves, including wells from the Bazhenov formation. 
The Centre has combined geological and technological support functions for well 
construction for the first time in the domestic oil and gas industry.DRILLING SUPPORT CENTRE
22
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Hydraulic fracturing is a method used to intensify 
oil production. A mixture of liquid and a special 
proppant is pumped into the formation under high 
pressure. As the mixture is supplied, high-
conductivity channels (fractures) are formed that 
connect the wellbore and the formation. These 
cracks provide an inflow of oil, which otherwise 
would not have entered the well. In multi-
stage fracturing, several fracturing operations 
are carried out in a single horizontal wellbore, 
which significantly increases the coverage area 
of the formation by a single well.INNOVATIONS IN PRODUCTION
Improvement of well drilling and injection technologies
 >The length of the horizontal wellbore at the Novoportovskoye Port field has 
reached 2,000 metres, the Company’s highest such indicator to date.
 >At the Verkhnesalymskoye field a well was drilled with depth of 3,300 metres 
in less than eight days. The construction speed of this well was a new technical 
record for such depth.
 >In March 2016, the Company conducted 18-stage hydraulic fracturing 
at the South Priobskoye field. In July 2017, 30-stage hydraulic fracturing was 
performed at this field, the first such operation for the Russian oil and gas 
industry.
Integration of unconventional reserves into development
 >A consortium involving the Company and Russian research organisations has 
developed the world’s first hydraulic fracturing simulator for the Bazhenov 
formation1, which makes it possible to determine optimal fracturing parameters 
and assess the productivity of wells in the Bazhenov formation.
 >The company has continued building high-tech wells to optimise technology 
and reduce the cost of wells.
Chemical methods to increase oil recovery
In March 2016, Salym Petroleum Development began injecting a soda-
surfactant polymer substance into the formation at the West Salymskoye field. 
The technology makes it possible to increase oil recovery at a mature field. 
Given the high proportion of assets in a late stage of development, increasing 
oil recovery at mature fields is among the Company’s top technological 
priorities. The pilot project allowed for assessing the technological 
and economic effectiveness of soda-surfactant polymer flooding. 
The successful completion of testing will enable the Company to transition 
to the large-scale industrial introduction of the technology in Western Siberia.RESULTS OF 2016
1 The Bazhenov formation is a group of oil-source rock (strata) that 
has been identified over a territory of roughly a million square km 
in Western Siberia.The introduction of ASP technology 
at the Salym group of fields is a unique 
experiment for Russia that turns a new 
page in the history of oil production. This 
method makes it possible to extract up 
to 30% of oil from the subsoil. I am certain 
that this technology will allow for the more 
sustainable development of dozens of deposits 
in Western Siberia. Moreover, it will help 
to make a significant contribution to the social 
and economic development of the region, 
generating additional payments to the budget, 
creating new jobs and boosting local business 
development.
Alexey Govzich
CEO of Salym Petroleum Development
ABOUT THE COMPANY
23
www.gazprom-neft.comDevelopment of oil refining catalyst 
technologies and production
 >A project to build an industrial platform 
at the Omsk Oil Refinery for a modern high-
tech complex for the production of oil refining 
catalysts, including catalysts for hydrogenation 
processes and catalysts for catalytic cracking, 
entered the stage of practical implementation. 
Gazprom Neft began producing high-efficiency 
Avangard catalytic cracking catalysts in 2016. 
 >Catalysts for a number of technological 
processes were developed jointly with leading 
Russian research centres that work with catalytic 
processes. The catalysts outperform the existing 
import analogues.
Establishment of solid acid alkylation  
technology
Construction was completed on a pilot plant 
for solid acid alkylation at Elektrogorsk 
Institute of Petroleum Refining. Introducing 
this technology will make it possible 
to eliminate hazardous and corrosion 
components from the technological process, 
integrate low-grade raw materials into refining 
and also increase the production volume 
of Euro-5 high-octane petrol. INNOVATIONS 
IN OIL REFINING 
AND SALES
RESULTS OF 2016
Introduction of a highly effective catalyst for the butane-butylene 
fraction oligomerization process
A pilot batch of the catalyst was successfully tested in the conditions 
of an industrial unit at the Moscow Oil Refinery and produced a qualitative 
oligomerizate (petrol component) corresponding to GOST standards. 
The cycle length of the catalyst was increased by 150% times and the yield 
of the oligomerizate by 3% (compared with analogues). Based on the pilot 
test results, the decision was made to introduce the new catalyst in the MTBE 
and oligomerizate production unit at the Moscow Oil Refinery.
Reactivation of spent hydrotreating catalysts
An industrial batch of the diesel fuel deep hydrotreating catalyst, which 
was reactivated according to the technology developed at the Omsk Oil 
Refinery, demonstrated a high level of efficiency (at the level of a fresh 
catalyst) in the hydrotreating of class 5 diesel fuel (less than 10 ppm sulphur). 
The introduction of reactivation technology makes it possible to reduce costs 
for the purchase of fresh expensive hydrotreating catalysts for diesel fuel 
by 55%.
Deep hydroprocessing of vacuum gas oil
As part of the comprehensive project ‘Establishment of technology 
to produce import-substituting catalysts for the deep hydroprocessing 
of vacuum gas oil’, the Company developed technology jointly 
with the the Boreskov Catalysis Institute of Hydrocarbon Processing 
of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences and the Institute 
of Petrochemical Synthesis of the Russian Academy of Sciences to produce 
catalysts for deep hydrotreating and hydrocracking of vacuum gas oil 
with maximum yield of high-quality light oil products and improved 
chemmotological and low-temperature properties.
Increase in intellectual property
In 2016, 18 patents were obtained and 26 applications were registered 
with the Russian Federal Service for Intellectual Property (including two 
international applications) for key technical solutions in oil refining that 
help the Company to achieve its strategic goals. This includes applications 
for technologies for oligomerisation, solid acid alkylation, the hydrotreating 
of diesel fuel and vacuum gas oil, the reactivation of hydrotreating catalysts 
and the production of catalyst supports.
24
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Russian Ministry of Energy has assigned national project status 
to Gazprom Neft’s ‘Aluminium Oxide-Based Crude Deep Conversion Catalysts’ 
project. By 2020, the Company expects to launch the newest production 
of hydrogenation catalysts with capacity of 6,000 tonnes per year and catalytic 
cracking catalysts with annual capacity of 15,000 tonnes at the industrial 
site of the Omsk Oil Refinery. The combined production capacity will make 
it possible to fully meet the needs of the Russian oil refining industry 
for catalysts for catalytic cracking and hydrogenation processes.NATIONAL PROJECTRESULTS OF 2016
Completion of Russia’s first pilot project 
to establish the ‘Neftekontrol-GPN’ automated 
information system for the collection, processing 
and transmission of data to track the movement 
of oil and petroleum products through the entire 
production and supply chain – from production 
to refueling complexes. The project was 
implemented within the framework of the State 
Information System of the Russian Fuel and Energy 
Complex in coordination with the Ministry of Energy 
and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The system 
is designed to obtain reliable data on the quantity, 
quality and losses of oil and petroleum products 
during the extraction, production, transportation, 
processing and storage stages. The solutions 
developed by Gazprom Neft are expected to be 
used in the formation of state information resources 
used to ensure energy security.
Gazprom Neft and the Skolkovo Foundation 
signed an agreement on the establishment 
of a Gazprom Neft R&D centre at the Skolkovo 
Innovation Centre. Investments in the project will 
exceed RUB 180 million prior to 2019. The Gazprom 
Neft R&D Centre will develop and introduce 
software to automate business processes in the oil 
and gas industry. Its research work will focus 
on creating innovative energy-saving and strategic 
computer technologies to improve the efficiency 
of key areas in oil company operations.PRODUCTION 
AUTOMATION
Priorities in the oil refining segment include  increasing 
refining debt,  releasing new products and enhancing 
the eco-friendliness of the production process.GROWTH IN THE NUMBER OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ITEMS
Source: Company data
020406080
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Patents 0 0 3 11 16 40
Applications 3 5 13 20 40 66
ABOUT THE COMPANY
25
www.gazprom-neft.comGAZPROM NEFT INVESTS HEAVILY 
IN THE MODERNISATION OF ITS OIL 
REFINERIES IN AN EFFORT TO IMPROVE 
THE QUALITY OF ITS PETROLEUM 
PRODUCTS.
The Company works continuously to enhance 
the effectiveness of customer support processes 
and improve the quality of its products 
and the reliability of its surveillance modes. The key 
areas of work to improve product quality and comply 
with regulatory requirements include:
 >modernising and rebuilding process equipment;
 >commissioning new technological facilities 
and technologies;
 >increasing the safety of petroleum products 
through stricter control; 
 >identifying and eliminating systemic problems 
with the quality of petroleum products;
 >introducing innovations in exploration 
and production, and conducting R&D 
and organisational and technical measures 
that aim to stabilise product manufacturing 
technologies and product quality at oil refineries;
 >manufacturing new types (brands) of products 
that meet the modern quality requirements 
of the market (customers);
 >introducing in-line quality inspection 
at technological facilities;
 >improving the skills level of personnel 
and optimising operational processes;
 >developing cooperation with and informing 
customers about matters concerning product 
quality.PRODUCT QUALITY 
CONTROL AND IMPROVEMENT
Quality control management at Gazprom Neft is integrated into the general 
management systems. The management systems of a number of the Company’s 
subsidiaries and enterprises (Gazpromneft-Lubricants, Omsk Oil Refinery, Moscow 
Oil Refinery and Gazpromneft-Ryazan Bitumen Materials Plant) are certified 
for compliance with the requirements of the international quality standard 
ISO 9001. In 2016, Gazpromneft-Lubricants underwent a recertification audit of its 
management system for compliance with the requirements of ISO 9001:2015, 
ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 and a compliance audit according 
to the standard ISO TS 16949:2009. Gazpromneft-Ryazan Bitumen Materials 
Plant underwent a verification audit for compliance with the international 
certificate of conformity of the factory production control (EN 14023:2010 
(16 brands) and EN 12591:2009 (four brands)). The Moscow Oil Refinery received 
an EN 12591:2009 certificate for two brands. 
The oil refineries have testing laboratories that provide product quality control 
at all stages of production, from analysing raw commodities and materials 
to shipments to consumers. In addition to intra-plant inspections, outside 
surveyor1 organisations may be additionally hired at the request of customers 
to perform random product quality control during its shipment to customers. 
The products manufactured by the Company’s subsidiaries comply 
with the requirements of Russian and international standards and regulations. 
In particular, Gazpromneft-Lubricants products undergo an impact assessment 
on human health and environmental safety and comply with the requirements 
of the Customs Union’s technical regulation ‘On the requirements for lubricants, 
oils, special liquids’ (TR TC 030/2012), the standards of the international 
organisations API, ISO, ACEA, ILSAC, DIN and others. 
1 Surveyor activities involve an assessment of the quality of freight based on its physical, chemical 
and biological condition.CASES IN WHICH THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS FAILED TO COMPLY 
WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
2014 2015 2016
Total number of cases when products 
failed to comply with regulatory 
requirements as identified 
by a laboratory1 101 558 563
Cases when products failed to comply 
with regulatory requirements resulting 
in a fine or penaltyNot found Not found Not found
26
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Safety data sheets are developed for exported 
products in accordance with REACH regulations 
(Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation 
of Chemicals)2; safety data sheets have been 
developed for products put into circulation 
on Russian territory in accordance with applicable 
legislation. Products for the domestic market comply 
with Russian GOST requirements.
The products of Gazpromneft-Lubricants also 
have roughly 300 confirmed approvals by original 
equipment manufacturers that impose additional 
requirements on product quality.
The Company is implementing the Gazprom Neft 
Target Fuel Quality Safety Programme for fuel 
sales. An independent comprehensive service has 
been developed for the Company's subsidiaries 
to preserve and monitor the quality of petroleum 
products. Investigations are conducted 
for each discrepancy to determine their cause, 
and developments are made to eliminate 
them. The Company is working to improve 
the effectiveness of monitoring facilities 
and counterparties and thoroughly verifies carriers. 
In 2016, contracts were terminated with several 
unscrupulous companies, which were entered 
on a ‘list of unscrupulous drivers’ and not allowed 
to transport Gazprom Neft petroleum products.Quality control improvement:
 >more precise methods for controlling the quality of oils were introduced 
to comply with the level of foreign requirements;
 >a system was introduced to verify the authenticity of products manufactured 
under the Gazpromneft brand3.
Production of new types of products with higher quality attributes:
 >a programme was prepared to develop product lines in the oils segment, use 
in the Arctic and the pipe industry; 
 >a programme was implemented for the qualification assessment of a pilot 
sample of the Company’s own group 3 base oils; 
 >the development of new kinds of innovative bitumen products manufactured 
by NOVA-Brit LLC in which Gazpromneft – Bitumen Materials purchased a stake 
in 2016; 
 >four brands of polymer-bitumen binders were developed and put into 
production; 
 >the modernisation of Unit 36/1 No. 1 at the Omsk Oil Refinery was completed 
in an effort to create eco-friendly TDAE-type softening oils; 
 >33 new products were created and the quality attributes of 20 products 
of Gazpromneft-Lubricants were improved; 
 >more than 100 training events were conducted on products of Gazpromneft-
Lubricants for consumers and partners;
 >the oils and petrochemistry laboratory of the Omsk Lubricants Plant finished 
developing a research method for the production of transmission oils; 
 >a pilot plant was commissioned for the development of IKA Master Plant 
10 lubricant technologies, which makes it possible to develop production 
technologies and greases for various purposes in laboratory conditions 
with subsequent scaling to industrial equipment and also to improve 
the existing compounds in an effort to reduce the cost of finished products.  KEY MEASURES 
TO IMPROVE PRODUCT 
QUALITY IN 2016
2 REACH is a European Union regulation (Regulation (EC) 
No. 1907/2006) that has regulated the production and turnover of all 
chemical substances, including their mandatory registration, since 
1 June 2007.
3 High-quality motor and transmission oils for cars are produced 
under the Gazpromneft brand.Gazpromneft-Lubricants introduced a unique system to verify the authenticity 
of products manufactured under the Gazpromneft brand. The factory 
places a unique code on the label of each canister of the most popular 
packaging in 4 and 5 litres under a special protective layer. Any customer 
can verify the authenticity of the product in real time by texting this code 
to a short number or by entering it on a special website. The system will 
confirm whether this code exists in the database and notify the customer 
about the purchase of the original product.PRODUCTION AUTHENTICATION SYSTEMS
ABOUT THE COMPANY
27
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft develops partnerships with research 
centres, institutions of higher education, research 
laboratories and industry associations in an effort 
to improve product quality and develop new types 
of products. In particular, the Company cooperates 
with the All-Russian Research Institute for Oil Refining, 
Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas, among 
others. During the reporting year, Gazprom Neft 
joined one of the largest international industry-
based associations – the Technical Association 
of the European Lubricants Industry (ATIEL).
Gazprom Neft works together with the Russian Fuel 
Union and other oil companies to develop measures 
to combat counterfeit fuel on the Russian market.Gazpromneft-Ryazan Bitumen Materials won 
the ‘Best 100 Products of Russia’ programme 
for the second time in 2016. The technological 
packaging of bituminous materials in ‘Clovertainer’ 
medium-tonnage containers and in ‘big bag’ soft 
packaging won the ‘Production and Technical 
Services’ category.‘BEST 100 PRODUCTS OF RUSSIA’
GAZPROM NEFT IS COMMITTED TO BUILDING DIRECT AND LONG-
TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH ITS CUSTOMERS. THE COMPANY 
ENGAGES IN DIALOGUES WITH CUSTOMERS BY PROVIDING 
THEM WITH TIMELY AND RESPONSIBLE INFORMATION ABOUT ITS 
PRODUCTS, IMPROVING THE CUSTOMER COMPLAINT SYSTEMS 
AND STUDYING THE LEVEL OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
WITH THE QUALITY OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICE. 
Each batch of products that is sent to customers is accompanied by a quality certificate 
for the particular product. The quality certificate for each batch products must specify:
 >the name and brand of the product;
 >all quality indicators according to the regulatory requirements for the product;
 >the standards and actual values of the quality indicators.
The following information is printed on the labels of packaged products: 
 >the scope of the product; 
 >specifications and approvals from equipment manufacturers that describe 
the product’s performance parameters; 
 >information on compliance with safety rules when using the product; 
 >a reference to the document that regulates the transportation and storage 
of the product; 
 >the name of the most dangerous substance for human health 
and the environment contained in the product; 
 >information about the disposal of used products and packaging.
The maximum possible and most effective communication channels are used 
to create awareness among each group of consumers.
Extensive media campaigns are held among motorists to position the Gazprom Neft 
fuel quality control system. Media tours are conducted of the Company's industrial 
facilities for high-profile journalists and bloggers who write about automotive 
issues. The capabilities of the Gazpromneft filling station network’s mobile 
laboratories for the operational control of fuel quality are regularly demonstrated 
at major automobile events.
Corporate and small-scale wholesale customer are made aware about the quality 
of Gazprom Neft's fuel at industry and expert events such as exhibitions, 
conferences and roundtables and also via newsletters and brochures, information 
in the business media, direct dialogue between the Company's management 
and customers at events and at technical training sessions and seminars 
for partners and customer.Gazprom Neft is committed to maintaining 
and strengthening its technological leadership 
in the production of bitumen materials for the Russian 
road industry. In 2016, the Company made 
significant progress in meeting this objective 
by acquiring a stake in NOVA-Brit LLC, having access 
to the production infrastructure, which provides 
an opportunity to increase the range of produced 
innovative bitumen materials the Company entered 
a new market for high-tech bitumen products 
used in road and airfield construction. In an effort 
to develop this business, the Company concluded 
cooperation agreements with the Kamchatka 
Territory Government, the Administration of Civil 
Airfields (Airports) and the Main Road and Airfield 
Construction Department under the Russian Federal 
Agency for Special Construction. During the reporting 
year, the Company opened the Gazpromneft – 
Bitumen Materials Research Centre to study 
bitumen binders and asphalt-concrete mixes 
and launched production on a number of new grades 
and compounds of bitumen materials that meet 
the current needs of consumers.STRENGTHENING TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIPENGAGEMENT 
WITH CUSTOMERS
28
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The response system to customer complaints 
and questions is comprised of different 
mechanisms and channels. The Company 
is constantly developing tools for feedback, which 
is the foundation for competitive supply. Contact 
mechanisms for customers include written inquiries, 
calls, feedback forms on the website, comment 
and suggestion registers at filling stations, online 
consultations with Company specialists on its 
websites and meetings with clients at exhibitions 
and forums, among other methods. All messages 
are reviewed in accordance with the Company’s 
established standards. The channel used 
is determined by the specifics of the activities 
of the enterprise or subsidiary. Subsidiaries regularly 
analyse the effectiveness of the corrective actions 
taken to prevent situations from recurring. 
In order to provide effective communication 
with clients and comprehensive interaction 
with customers, Gazprom Neft has established 
the Unified Customer Support Centre, which 
is comprised of an information service that unites 
different communications channels.
Main issues concerning product quality raised 
by customers and other stakeholders in 2016:
 >the stabilisation of bitumen product quality based 
on the most critical attributes for customers; 
 >the need for a quality margin based on the most 
critical attributes for customers;
 >the manufacturing of products based on new 
regulatory documents; 
 >product certification based on TR TS 014/2011 
‘Road Safety’.Active cooperation with customers helps the Company to consistently improve 
the quality of work as well as promptly identify and solve any problems 
that may arise.
The Company’s subsidiaries regularly conduct studies of customer satisfaction levels. 
The results of the studies conducted in 2016 found:
 >Customers view the Gazpromneft filling station network as a reliable 
and trustworthy brand. The loyalty and satisfaction index (NPS) among users 
of Gazpromneft petrol stations is one of the highest on the market with 95% 
of users believing that the stations sell high quality fuel. Among the respondents 
who chose Gazpromneft as their favourite filling station, 85% said they would be 
willing to recommend it and believe that these stations sell high quality petrol 
(TNS, 2016).
 >The satisfaction index among counterparties of Gazpromneft-Lubricants increased 
from 3.26 in 2015 to 3.31 in 2016. Among the counterparties surveyed, 40% 
said they were fully satisfied, while 54% said they were more or less satisfied 
with their cooperation with the company. The share of fully satisfied counterparties 
increased from 36% to 40%. The counterparty loyalty index increased from 3.53 
in 2015 to 3.60 in 2016. 64% of respondents said they would definitely recommend 
Gazpromneft-Lubricants, while 34% said they would most likely recommend 
the company as a lubricant manufacturer if asked for a recommendation. The 
aggregate consumer satisfaction indicator was 80% for the year (77% in 2015).
 >The NPS (Net Promoters Score) loyalty index among Gazpromneft – Bitumen 
Materials customers was 73 out of 100 points. 82.1% of respondents commended 
the professionalism of employees, while 78.9% of respondents noted the high 
quality of products.
 >78% of corporate customers, 64% of small-scale wholesale customers 
and 57% of retail customers said they were satisfied with their cooperation 
with Gazprom Neft. In terms of strengths, small-scale wholesale customers 
noted the quality of petroleum products, the level of service and the guarantee 
of supply in the long term, while corporate customers mentioned the notoriety 
of the company and the brand as well as the timely receipt of accounting 
documents. 
SATISFACTION LEVEL AMONG THE COMPANY’S CUSTOMERS
Indicator H1 2016 H2 2016
Retail customers - Net 
Promoters Score561571
Corporate clients – satisfaction 
index762
Small-scale wholesale 
customers – satisfaction index732
1  According to TNS data, 2016
2 According to Vector market research date, 2016
ABOUT THE COMPANY
29
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company’s counterparties for the supply 
of goods, work and services are selected in a unified 
manner based on a competitive procedure.
The approaches to engagement with counterparties 
make it possible to:
 >maximise the efficiency and effectiveness 
of procurements;
 >achieve an optimal level of competition among 
potential procedure participants;
 >ensure an objective, substantiated and impartial 
process for selecting winners of the procedures;
 >ensure reasonable transparency 
in the procedures conducted;
 >promote the development of the competitiveness 
and technological capabilities of contractors.SUPPLY 
CHAIN
The Company received the ‘Guaranteed Transparency’ 
award in 2016 based on the results of the National 
Procurement Transparency Rating. Ratings take 
into account the extent of information transparency 
of the competitive procedures, the intensity 
of competition, the degree of effectiveness 
of the competitive procedures and the screening 
of applications to take part in competitions as well 
as their cost-effectiveness.‘GUARANTEED TRANSPARENCY’Today we have built a system that allows 
us to work in a comprehensive manner 
with the contractor market: the accreditation 
of companies and a rating of the organizations 
that work with us. In this regard, multi-year 
framework contracts are a logical step towards 
building effective relationships with partners 
in major construction projects.
Marat Sayfutdinov
Leader of the Major Construction Function 
in the Gazprom Neft Upstream Division
The interdepartmental working group in charge 
of reducing the Russian fuel and energy industry’s 
dependence on imports of equipment, 
components and spare parts as well as the services 
of foreign companies was held at the Gas Forum 
in St. Petersburg in October 2016. During the meeting, 
Russian Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov 
expressed gratitude to Gazprom Neft for its unique 
contribution to the practical solution of import 
substitution objectives.UNIQUE CONTRIBUTION
The basic criteria used when selecting counterparties 
for the supply of products, work and services include 
cost, quality, the timeframe for manufacturing 
and supply/performing work/rendering services, 
the reliability of the counterparty, its relevant technical 
and personal resources as regards the purchase 
of work/services and the necessary experience 
in performing such work/rendering such services 
for the corresponding area. One of the key criteria 
for selecting a counterparty for work/services 
is the counterparty’s compliance with the rules 
for industrial, environmental and occupational The Company 
is committed 
to utilising long-
term contracting , 
various incentive 
tools for contractors 
and flexible pricing 
mechanisms.GAZPROM NEFT DEVELOPS COOPERATION WITH CONTRACTORS 
WITH A FOCUS ON MARKET TRANSPARENCY, MARKET PRICING 
AS WELL AS LONG-TERM AND STRUCTURED RELATIONSHIPS. 
THE COMPANY IS COMMITTED TO UTILISING LONG-TERM CONTRACTING, 
VARIOUS INCENTIVE TOOLS FOR CONTRACTORS AND FLEXIBLE PRICING 
MECHANISMS.
30
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 >effective development of mature fields; 
 >maximising the return on investment from new projects; 
 >preserving all resource base development options to ensure new production areas.
REFINING AND SALES
 >continued implementation of projects to increase oil refining depth 
and environmental projects, including the continued construction of primary oil 
refining complexes at the Omsk and Moscow Oil Refineries;
 >implementation of programmes to boost oil refining efficiency and cost costs;
 >maximising sales of petroleum products via the Company’s premium 
sales channels.
IMPROVED PRODUCT QUALITY
 >conducting the next round of recertification for Gazprom Neft-Lubricants 
in accordance with the requirements of international standards; 
 >expanding the range of synthetic oils by developing compounds for key products 
based on market demand; 
 >launch of a homologation1 programme for synthetic oil compounds based 
on the Company’s own group 3 base oils; 
 >conducting a programme of operational testing in various industries where 
the Company’s products are consumed to confirm the quality attributes of premium 
products;
 >implementing a programme for technical training sessions and industry 
conferences; 
 >introducing the new standards GOST 33133-2014 and GOST R 55420; 
 >holding the sixth inter-industry conference ‘Bitumen and PBB. Relevant Issues 
of 2017’ with the invitation of leading market players; 
 >performing the following work at the Gazpromneft – Bitumen Materials Research 
Centre:
 ―development of binders and asphalt concrete for specific regions taking into 
account the climatic operating features; 
 ―assessment of the changes in the properties of binders as a function of storage 
temperature and evaluation of the properties of asphalt concretes on these 
binders.
 >launchin g the production of new types (brands) of products that meet modern 
regulatory requirements for quality as requested by the market; 
 >conducting industrial pilot testing to assess the feasibility of obtaining new types 
of bitumen products.GOALS FOR 2017 AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS MADE  
TO SUPPLIERS (RUB bn)
Source: Company data
1 Homologation is an improvement to oil compounds to bring 
their quality into compliance with the requirements of the standards 
of the Russian Federation and customer demands.safety and civil defence (HSE, OS and CD) rules 
adopted by the Company. The Company concludes 
agreements with the selected counterparties on HSE, 
OS and CD containing requirements on compliance 
with the Company’s standards in industrial 
and environmental safety. The Company maintains 
a database and rating of counterparties that allows 
for identifying the most and least reliable suppliers 
and contractors.
In 2016, Gazprom Neft had a total of 1,827 counterparty 
organisations for the supply of goods. The share 
of the Company’s counterparties from the domestic 
market was more than 90%.
The Company is actively engaged in import 
substitution and supporting domestic manufacturers. 
Gazprom Neft has a Technological Partnership 
and Import Substitution Department that monitors 
the Russian goods market in an effort to find 
opportunities to phase out imported equipment 
and materials in favour of competitive Russian 
analogues.20142015
20132016 127
ХХХ5974130
ABOUT THE COMPANY
31
www.gazprom-neft.comSUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
The strategy employed by Gazprom Neft reflects 
the Company’s commitment to sustainable growth 
and the establishment of economic and social benefits 
for a wide range of stakeholders. In developing 
and implementing the strategy, Gazprom Neft seeks 
to balance the interests of business and society 
through the harmonious management of the economic, 
environmental and social aspects of its activities.THE COMPANY CONSISTENTLY INTEGRATES 
THE PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY1 INTO ITS BUSINESS 
STRATEGY. THE COMPANY BELIEVES 
ADHERING TO THESE PRINCIPLES IS ONE 
OF THE KEY FACTORS FOR ITS LONG-TERM 
SUSTAINABILITY.
While investing resources in the Company’s 
development and its assets as well as improving 
production activities, Gazprom Neft simultaneously 
invests in effective programmes for regional 
development and environmental protection 
and views these investments as a contribution 
to its long-term competitiveness. The Company 
seeks to ensure dynamic growth and increase 
the efficiency of its core business while consistently 
enhancing the effectiveness of its social investments 
in personnel and local communities and also 
mitigating the specific impact on the environment.
Gazprom Neft takes a comprehensive approach 
to managing its impact on socioeconomic 
and environmental systems and implements modern 
environmental and social management systems that 
meet international standards.ABOUT SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
1 The  company shares the understanding of sustainable development 
that is accepted in the international business community and 
enshrined in ISO 26000: 2010 ‘Guide to Social Responsibility’ 
(Russian version - GOST R ISO 2600: 2012) as development that 
ensures the opportunity to meet the needs of both current and future 
generations.The Company regularly analyses the effect 
its operations have on the environment and society 
and carefully evaluates the potential social 
and environmental impact of new projects. 
Gazprom Neft supports an active dialogue with all 
stakeholders and seeks to take their expectations 
into consideration when adopting management 
decisions.
The Company’s goals in sustainable development 
and corporate responsibility are specified 
by its mission, strategic principles and priorities 
and consist of a system of interrelated activities 
as part of Gazprom Neft’s unified strategy. 
When determining its sustainable development 
strategy, the Company takes into account 
global trends and experience in this area. 
The Company’s range of principles reflects 
a number of UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDP) that aim to solve important economic, 
social and environmental problems for the global 
community.The Company’s goals  
in sustainable 
development 
and corporate 
responsibility 
are specified 
by its mission, 
strategic principles 
and priorities.
About UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDP) see:   
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/
sustainable-development-goals/
34
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES 
OF GAZPROM NEFT
The Company is an integrator of new technological solutions that aim 
to increase production (oil recovery rate, refining depth) and financial indicators. 
It is the industry leader in terms of the introduction and utilisation of advanced 
technologies. The Company has a positive impact on the development of related 
production facilities and determines the sectoral technological agenda 
and demands of the industry that require modern scientific and technical solutions 
and developments. The Company is an expert on the development of Arctic 
region fields and work at mature fields and is a leader in the development 
of the Bazhenov formation.The Company seeks to continuously improve 
its production and financial indicators and efficiently 
manage its assets. The Company maintains 
an efficient balance between production 
and refining and constantly improves its sales 
channels and product line. The Company 
is committed to leadership in production culture 
since improving the efficiency of business 
processes is one of the most important focuses 
of the Company's development, and ensures 
the optimal use of all resources (human, financial 
and production) while boosting productivity. 
Corporate safety standards are a priority 
in the Company’s operations. Gazprom Neft places 
the life and health of its employees above all else 
(any work that threatens someone’s life or health 
must be stopped immediately). The hydrocarbon 
production technologies used by Gazprom Neft take 
into account the special aspects of the environment 
in the regions where the Company operates. 
The Company invests in the modernisation of its oil 
refining assets and enhances eco-friendliness 
and safety.Gazprom Neft consistently ranks among the country’s best employers in terms 
of key ratings. The Company’s management is built around the principle 
of involving all employees in solving common problems.
Working at Gazprom Neft means being a professional in high demand. 
The Company provides employees with the opportunity to take part in ambitious 
projects, improve their skills and become top-notch specialists who receive 
a respectable salary for their work as well as a social package.TECHNOLOGICAL EFFECTIVENESS EFFICIENCY
SAFETY 
AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYER ATTRACTIVENESS
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
35
www.gazprom-neft.comUN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
VALUE CHAINECONOMY, MANUFACTURING ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
 >Achieve strategic goals
 >Enhance the effectiveness of core operations
 >Innovative activities >Minimisation of the environmental impact 
of production activities
 >Sustainable use of resources
 >Preserving biodiversity
 >Energy conservation and energy efficiency >Development of the Company’s HR potential
 >Increasing the level of industrial 
and occupational safety, reducing the rate 
of injuries, accidents and occupational diseases
 >Support for local communities in the regions 
of operation, assistance with regional 
socioeconomic development
SDG
8 Decent work and economic growth
9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure 6 Clean water and sanitation
7 Affordable and clean energy
13 Climate action
14 Life below water
15 Life on land3 Good health and well-being
4 Quality education
5 Gender equality
11 Sustainable cities and communitiesTHE COMPANY’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS  
AND THEIR COMPLIANCE WITH UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG)
An integrated business model allows 
Gazprom Neft to maximise the effective use 
of the Company’s resources, increase the value 
of business and create value for stakeholders 
during each stage of activities. This enables 
the Company to maintain its leading positions 
and competitiveness in the long term.The foundation of the Company’s activities 
is the Gazprom Neft Development 
Strategy until 2025, which was approved 
by the Board of Directors in 2013 and updated 
during the reporting year. Despite the ongoing 
instability in the external environment, 
the Company is still on pace to achieve its key 
strategic priorities prior to 2025.The Company’s 
range of priorities 
reflects a number 
of UN Sustainable 
Development 
Goals (SDP) that aim 
to solve important 
economic, social 
and environmental 
problems 
for the global 
community.
36
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016BUSINESS CREATION OF VALUE STRATEGIC OUTLOOK FOR 2025
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
REFINING
SALESThe volume of hydrocarbons extracted by the Company 
increases each year, thereby making it possible to meet 
the market’s demand for oil and gas. The growth in production 
can be attributed to the large-scale development 
and introduction of innovations. The Company has increased 
production at mature fields in Western Siberia and introduced 
two new brands of Arctic crude oil to the international 
market – ARCO from the Prirazlamnoye field and Novy 
Port from the Novoportovskoye field. Gazprom Neft 
continues to study opportunities to extract hard-to-recover 
and unconventional reserves. A balanced project portfolio 
helps to effectively manage production in rapidly changing 
market conditions.
The Company remains one of the industry leaders in oil 
refining efficiency while reliably meeting the demands 
of the domestic market. The high proportion of refining 
is a significant factor in ensuring the Company’s economic 
efficiency. The Company achieves such results by continuously 
improving its operating efficiency, modernising oil refineries 
and implementing projects to increase the depth of refining 
and produce light petroleum products. Production facility 
modernisation programmes enable the Company to not only 
enhance the quality of its products, but also improve 
the environmental performance of motor fuels as well 
as minimise the environmental impact of its refineries.
The Company has an effective sales network to sell 
petroleum products to industrial consumers and motor fuel 
to end consumers via retail and small wholesale channels. 
Gazprom Neft develops a filling station chain in Russia 
and CIS countries. To improve the effectiveness of petroleum 
product sales to industrial consumers, the Company has 
separated the following businesses: aircraft refueling, 
bunkering and sales of lubricants and bitumen materials 
and petrochemical products.100 million TOE – Hydrocarbon production volume 
15 years – Availability of proven reserves (Total Proved / 
Production)
100% – annual replacement ratio of proven and probable 
reserves (2P) excluding acquisitions
In order to achieve these goals, Gazprom Neft strives 
to employ the most cost-effective methods to recover 
the remaining reserves from the current resource 
base by utilising the best practices for optimising field 
development, reducing the cost of proven technologies as well 
as acquiring and introducing new technologies. The Company 
plans to set up a new production centre in the northern 
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District and is considering 
unconventional reserves as significant potential for growth. 
40 mn t – oil refining in Russia
95% – oil refining  depth in Russia
80% – yield of light petroleum products in Russia
Continuing the modernisation of refining facilities and further 
enhancing operational efficiency remain a strategic priority 
for developing Gazprom Neft’s oil refining business in Russia. 
The Company will continue to implement key projects 
to increase the depth of refining and the yield of light 
petroleum products. Gazprom Neft continues work on projects 
to improve operational efficiency and projects that aim 
to mitigate its environmental impact. 
In the long term, the Company’s own sales channels should 
sell 100% of the petroleum products manufactured at its oil 
refineries in Russia.
In the motor fuel segment, Gazprom Neft intends to increase 
overall sales in Russia and the CIS to 19 million tonnes 
by 2025. The Company plans to expand its filling station 
network in Russia and the CIS to 1,650 stations by 2025, 
including franchising filling stations to achieve this goal.  
In the segment for the sale of petroleum products to industrial 
consumers, the Company intends to increase sales 
to 13.3 million tonnes per year by 2025Meeting the needs 
of customers for oil, 
gas and high-quality 
petroleum products
Dividends 
for shareholders 
Tax revenue for all budget 
levels 
Orders placed with local 
suppliers 
Manufacturing 
of innovative products 
with reduced 
environmental impact 
during consumption 
Jobs, stable salaries 
and social support 
for personnel. Employee 
development and career 
growth programmes 
Innovative activities 
that contribute 
to the industry’s 
development 
Contribution 
to the socioeconomic 
stability of the regions 
and their development, 
improving the lives 
of local communities 
and promoting growth 
in the population’s 
social activity and social 
entrepreneurship
Nature conservation 
and contribution 
to the preservation 
of biodiversity
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
37
www.gazprom-neft.comSUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT 
AND STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
The standards and mechanisms of Gazprom Neft's 
corporate governance system enable the Company 
to observe sustainable development principles at all 
levels of operations – from planning the corporate 
strategy to solving daily business tasks. The Company's 
corporate governance system is one of the key factors 
in the continued growth of Gazprom Neft.THE PRIMARY GOALS OF THE GAZPROM NEFT CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE SYSTEM ARE TO SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, 
THE COMPANY’S CONTINUOUS GROWTH AND ITS LONG-TERM 
COMPETITIVENESS.
Gazprom Neft continuously makes improvements to its corporate governance system 
with the results of this work reviewed annually at meetings of the Board of Directors.
The corporate governance system meets the standards and requirements 
of Russian legislation, the Gazprom Neft Charter and the Company’s internal 
standards. Gazprom Neft is also guided by the best international experience 
and most successful practices in corporate governance. 
The principles and rules of the corporate governance system are enshrined 
in the Code of Corporate Governance (hereinafter the Code). The Code aims 
to ensure the thorough protection by the Company of the rights and interests of its 
shareholders, the transparency of decision-making by its governance bodies, 
the professional and ethical responsibility of members of internal governance 
and control bodies to the Company, its employees and counterparties, greater 
information transparency and the development of a system of business ethics 
standards.The General Meeting of Shareholders 
is the supreme governing body whose purview 
includes the most significant issues concerning 
the Company’s activities: approval of the annual 
reports, annual accounting (financial) statement, 
distribution of profit and amendments to the Charter, 
among other things. The General Meeting 
of Shareholders elects the Board of Directors.
Gazprom Neft held its annual General Meeting 
of Shareholders in June 2016.
The Board of Directors  handles the strategic day-
to-day management of the Company. The Board 
determines the priority areas for the Company’s 
development, monitors the executive bodies 
to ensure they perform their duties effectively 
and is responsible for managing the key risks 
that influence the achievement of the Company’s 
strategic goals.
STRUCTURE OF GOVERNING AND SUPERVISORY BODIES OF GAZPROM NEFT PJSC
GENERAL MEETING 
OF SHAREHOLDERSBOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT BOARD 
AUDIT COMMISSION CEO
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INTERNAL AUDIT  
DEPARTMENT HUMAN RESOURCES AND 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
AUDIT COMMITTEEThe Board of Directors appoints 
the head of the Internal Audit 
Department 
The Internal Audit Department 
is administratively subordinate 
to the Company’s CEOCORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
40
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Board of Directors is comprised of thirteen people, including members 
of the Gazprom PJSC Management Board who represent the interests 
of the controlling shareholder, and two independent directors. Twelve 
of the thirteen Board members are non-executives. The Board of Directors is chaired 
by Gazprom PJSC Management Board Chairman Alexey Miller.
The Board of Directors is balanced insofar as its members possess the key skills 
that are essential for effective work. The members of the Board of Directors have 
skills in accounting, strategic management, corporate governance, corporate 
finance and risk management as well as knowledge specific to certain areas 
of the Company’s business1. When performing their functions, Board members 
actively interact with the Company’s management, structural units, the registrar 
and the auditor.
The Board of Directors monitors improvements in the corporate governance 
system and practices at the Company and reviews reports on the implementation 
of an action programme to improve corporate governance on an annual basis.
The Board of Directors conducts a self-assessment of its work each year. 
This analysis concerns both the nature of the Board’s activities as well 
as the procedures it employs.
The analysis of the Board’s performance over the reporting period revealed 
improvements in the following areas: identification of strategic priorities, 
interaction with executive management, balanced membership and functioning 
of the Board of Directors. In addition, issues falling within zones for development 
based on the assessment results included the increased awareness of members 
of the Board of Directors, including the timely provision of information 
and improvements to communication channels with management and other 
individuals.
In 2016, the Board of Directors considered the following matters concerning 
sustainable development:
 >the approval of the Report on the Implementation of the Gazprom Neft PJSC 
Innovative Development Programme for 2015;
 >the procurement activities of the Gazprom Neft Group in the changing 
market conditions and measures to minimise the proportion of imported 
procurements;
 >the status of energy conservation and improved energy efficiency work 
at the Company; >the implementation of the programme 
to utilise and increase the effective utilisation 
of associated petroleum gas (APG);
 >industrial safety measures;
 >the approval of sponsorships for sports clubs 
in the regions where the Company operates 
during the sports seasons – Hockey Club SKA 
and NP Avangard SC.
The Secretary of the Board of Directors 
handles regular interaction with shareholders 
and the coordination of the Company’s actions 
to protect the rights and interests of shareholders 
and also supports the effective work of the Board 
of the Directors.
The Audit Committee and Human Resources 
and Remuneration Committee operate 
under the Board of Directors.
The Audit Committee evaluates the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems for the Company’s 
financial and business operations and also monitors 
the risk management system.
The Human Resources and Remuneration 
Committee contributes to the creation 
of the Company’s human resources policy 
and handles matters involving remuneration 
for members of governing bodies and the Audit 
Commission.
The executive bodies are the Management 
Board (collective executive body) and CEO 
(sole executive body who performs the functions 
of the Chairman of the Management Board). 
The CEO and the Management Board 
are accountable to the Board of Directors 
and the General Shareholders Meeting. 
As of 31 December 2016, the Management Board 
was comprised of eleven members2. The Company’s 
CEO is Alexander Dyukov.
The Company has mechanisms that aim 
to eliminate the possibility of a conflict of interests 
in the supreme governing bodies3.1 A list of the members of the Board of Directors, their specific skills as well as the number of meetings at which 
each member was present is presented in the Company’s Annual Report for 2016 on the Company’s website.
2 A list of the members of the Management Board and their specific skills as well as the number of meetings 
at which each member was present is presented in the Company’s Annual Report for 2016.
3 Read  more about compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance in the Company’s Annual Report for 2016.
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
41
www.gazprom-neft.comTHE REMUNERATION PROGRAMME 
FOR MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY’S 
MANAGEMENT BOARD INCLUDES 
BASE REMUNERATION THAT 
IS DETERMINED INDIVIDUALLY 
AND FIXED IN THE EMPLOYMENT 
CONTRACT, AN ANNUAL BONUS 
AND A LONG-TERM INCENTIVE 
PROGRAMME1.REMUNERATION 
FOR MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
AND MANAGEMENT BOARD
The annual bonus for key senior executives is tied to the degree to which 
they fulfilled a fixed set of KPIs and business initiatives. This set of KPIs 
includes performance indicators with respect to the Company’s strategic goals 
as well as corporate, financial and performance targets. Starting from 2016, 
it also comprises indicators demonstrating compliance with industrial safety 
and occupational safety standards.
In addition to the annual bonus, Gazprom Neft employs a long-term incentive 
system based on the dynamics of the Company’s market capitalisation 
over a three-year period. The amount of remuneration for members of the Board 
of Directors depends on the Company’s financial results and is annually approved 
by shareholders, which eliminates the risk of potential abuses of the remuneration 
programme.
INFORMATION 
POLICY
Gazprom Neft maintains a high level of information 
openness and transparency. The Company promptly 
and regularly discloses information about its 
activities to an extent that is capable of influencing 
its financial and business operations.
Gazprom Neft has drafted and adopted 
an Information Policy that ensures effective 
information interaction between the Company, 
shareholders, investors and all stakeholders. 
The Board of Directors monitors the observance 
of the Information Policy.
The core principles of the Gazprom Neft Information 
Policy are:
 >the regular, consistent and prompt provision 
of information;
 >ensuring all stakeholders have the opportunity 
for equal, free and easy access to information 
disclosed by the Company; >the objectivity, accuracy, completeness and comparability of all disclosed data; 
 >neutrality of information, i.e. eliminating the possibility of the preferential 
satisfaction of the interests of one group over those of another;
 >maintaining a reasonable balance between the Company’s transparency 
and its commercial interests.
The Company discloses balanced and objective information, which is above all 
evidenced by the fact that Gazprom Neft does not avoid disclosing negative 
information about itself since it understands the importance of such information 
for stakeholders
Gazprom Neft publishes all the main forms of its financial statements prepared 
in accordance with IFRS and RAS as well as its sustainable development 
reporting in the ‘Investors’ section of its official website www.gazprom-neft.com . 
The reporting is confirmed by audit reports. The Company also publishes 
documents governing the activities of Gazprom Neft’s management 
and supervisory bodies, financial and production indicators and information 
about the impact of the Company’s activities on the economy, environment 
and society. Information is published in Russian and English.
42
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GAZPROM NEFT STRICTLY OBSERVES 
HUMAN RIGHTS IN ITS ACTIVITIES.
The Company subscribes to the following general 
principles:
 >The UN Global Compact on Human 
Rights, Labour Relations, Anti-Corruption 
and Environmental Protection;
 >The Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
 >The International Labour Organisation’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work;
 >The Social Charter of Russian Business 
of the Russian Union of Industrialists 
and Entrepreneurs.
Gazprom Neft does not permit any discrimination 
based on nationality, gender, origin, age or other 
grounds, recognises the right of workers to form 
public associations and organisations to protect 
their rights and interests, and guarantees respect 
for the rights of indigenous peoples when organising 
production operations in areas where they reside. 
The Company ensures the observance of these 
and other human rights through its risk management 
system, environmental, production and social 
management systems, and communications system 
with internal and external audiences.
The company officially recognises its employees’ 
rights to safe working conditions, freedom 
from discrimination and freedom of association 
and takes into account the special aspects 
of the culture and customs of local communities 
in the regions where it operates.OBSERVANCE 
OF HUMAN RIGHTS
1 Read  more about the remuneration paid to members 
of the Company’s Board of Directors and Management Board 
in the Company’s Annual Report for 2016.The Company’s principles in the observance 
of human rights are reflected in its fundamental 
corporate documents and include:
 >Code of Corporate Governance; 
 >Corporate Conduct Code; 
 >Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption Policy; 
 >Industrial, Environmental and Occupational 
Safety and Civil Defence Policy;
 >HR Management Policy;
 >Regional Policy Concept;
 >Information Policy.
The Company ensures the practical observance 
of human rights by:
 >undertaking obligations to observe human rights 
and incorporating them into the Company’s 
regulatory documents;
 >assessing risks concerning the observance 
of human rights and developing preventive 
measures if they materialise;
 >interacting with stakeholders on matters 
concerning the observance of human rights;
 >developing feedback channels that enable 
stakeholders to express their opinion 
or a complaint in this regard;
 >monitoring the observance of human rights 
by the Company and its contractors.The company 
officially recognises 
its employees’ 
rights  to safe 
working conditions, 
freedom from 
discrimination 
and freedom 
of association 
and takes 
into account 
the special aspects 
of the culture 
and customs of local 
communities 
in the regions where 
it operates.
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
43
www.gazprom-neft.comSince February 2014, the Gazprom Neft Group has employed an Anti-Corruption 
and Anti-Fraud Policy with which all current employees of the Company and its 
subsidiaries are familiar. It is based on Russian legislation, the Code of Corporate 
Governance and other internal regulatory acts. The Policy describes the main 
requirements for implementing business processes in order to mitigate corruption 
risks and also prescribes anti-corruption rules and standards for all the Company’s 
employees.
Gazprom Neft has a risk management system for corruption that includes 
the following anti-corruption measures at all levels of internal corporate 
regulation:
 >contracts concluded with contractors include anti-fraud and anti-corruption 
obligations;
 >the Company regularly conducts an assessment of corruption-related risks. 
Measures to identify and prevent corruption and fraud risks have been 
included in the Company’s risk management system;
 >Gazprom Neft has a hotline that it uses as a system to collect and process 
information about fraudulent actions, administrative violations and violations 
of industrial safety requirements. The goal of the hotline is to provide 
any individual with an opportunity to report violations at Gazprom as well 
as its subsidiaries. All the reports received are processed with the highest 
level of confidentiality. The information is verified in compliance 
with the requirements for objectivity and independence by individuals who 
are not parties to the proceedings in question;
 >official investigations are conducted based on any violations that are identified 
and the guilty parties are held accountable.
The Company has zero tolerance for possible risks of corruption and fraud. 
Working to prevent such risks remains one of the top priorities in the activities 
of Gazprom Neft management and employees.The Gazprom Neft risk management system aims 
to ensure the Company’s financial stability, achieve 
a balance between growth in the Company’s value, 
profitability and risk, effectively manage business 
activities, ensure the safekeeping of assets, 
identify, correct and prevent violations, prepare 
reliable accounting in a timely manner and improve 
the Company’s investment appeal as a result.ETHICS 
AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 
ACTIVITIESINTERNAL 
CONTROL AND RISK 
MANAGEMENT
As part of its programme to minimise corruption risks in 2016, the Company 
developed the online course ‘Combating Fraud and Corruption 
at Gazprom Neft PJSC’, which addresses aspects of anti-corruption behaviour 
among employees when performing their official duties. This course was 
recommended for all current Company employees and mandatory for all newly 
hired employees.COMBATING FRAUD AND CORRUPTIONThe creation and maintenance 
of the risk management 
and internal control system 
falls within the responsibilities 
of the Management Board and CEO.
The principles and approaches to organising 
the Gazprom Neft risk management and internal 
control system are determined by the Company’s 
Board of Directors. The Audit Committee 
under the Board of Directors assesses whether 
the system functions effectively and submits 
a report on the audit results to shareholders 
as part of materials for the annual General Meeting 
of Shareholders. The creation and maintenance 
of the risk management and internal control system 
falls within the responsibilities of the Management 
Board and CEO.
In an effort to improve the effectiveness 
of the internal control system and improve corporate 
governance, the Company drafted a new version 
of the Gazprom Neft PJSC Internal Control Policy. 
The Policy is published along with other Company 
documents at the address: ir.gazprom-neft.com .
44
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Internal Audit Department  evaluates and makes improvements 
to the Company’s corporate governance, risk management and internal 
control processes. Its functions include conducting internal audits, organising 
the integrated risk management system and engaging in fraud prevention 
activities.
As part of its activities, the Internal Audit Department assesses the effectiveness 
of the internal control system for the Company’s business processes, 
including operational efficiency, the safeguarding and legitimate use 
of assets, the accuracy of external and internal reporting as well as compliance 
with the requirements of applicable existing legislation and regulatory organisations.
The Internal Audit Department interacts with the Company’s audit commissions 
and coordinates its work with external auditors in all stages of the audit cycle.
The audits cover key aspects of the Company’s activities and also take into 
account its goals and priorities. The audit plan is formulated based on a risk-
oriented approach, is regularly updated and includes audits of such areas 
as exploration and production, refining and sales, capital construction, financial 
activities, information technologies and industrial safety, among others.
The Audit Commission  monitors the Company’s financial and business activities, 
audits and analyses the Company’s financial position and the operation 
of the internal control and risk management systems and also verifies the validity 
of business transactions. It is elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders.
The External Auditor  conducts an annual audit of the financial statement 
in accordance with Russian Accounting Standards and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS). It is approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders 
based on a recommendation by the Company’s Board of Directors.
Gazprom Neft devotes special attention to improving the internal control system 
(ICS) for reporting accuracy. In 2016, such work included:
 >identifying and evaluating risks that influence reporting accuracy;
 >drafting and introducing control procedures to minimise such risks;
 >work involving the self-diagnosis of the effectiveness of control procedures;
 >drafting and implementing procedures to manage changes to ICS data 
in an effort to ensure such data remains updated and effective.
Risk management  is one of the key components of the sustainable development 
management system. The Company has a Risk Management Policy that defines 
the general goals and principles of risk management in order to make the Group’s 
business more secure in both the short and the long term.Gazprom Neft’s key goal in risk management 
is to increase the effectiveness of management 
decisions through a detailed analysis of related 
risks and also to maximise the effectiveness 
of risk management measures when implementing 
the decisions that the Company has adopted.
Objectives of risk management:
 >to establish a risk management culture 
at the Company that aims to achieve a common 
understanding among all employees of the main 
principles and approaches to risk management;
 >to establish and introduce a systematic approach 
to identifying and assessing risks;
 >to stimulate the exchange of information on risks 
between the Company’s structural divisions 
and the joint development of risk management 
actions;
 >to provide systematic information about risks 
to the Company’s governing bodies.The Financial Control Department implemented 
a project in 2016 to introduce a solution to automate 
internal control functions based on the SAP GRC 
Process Control system. This solution made it possible 
to create a unified information space of the ICS 
for all of the Group’s companies, reduce labour costs 
and improve the quality of internal control management 
procedures and the degree of control procedure 
automation. More than 60 manual control procedures 
were automated as part of the project.SAP GRC PROCESS CONTROL SYSTEMCOMPANY 
SUPERVISORY BODIES
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
45
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company’s risk management processes are described by the corporate Risk 
Management Policy and the Integrated Risk Management System (IRMS) unified 
corporate standard, which covers all of Gazprom Neft’s major assets. The IRMS 
provides a continuous process to identify, assess and manage risks. Risk analysis 
and management tools are integrated into key corporate processes.
Responsibility for risk management and preparing reporting on risk management 
is determined in accordance with the system of linear and functional 
management. An owner is appointed for each risk and is responsible for managing 
it. Risk coordinators who promote and support the use of corporate risk 
management principles are selected from among managers at the level of each 
function and business directions. The risk analysis deadlines and objectives take into account the specific features and demands 
of each business process for which risk management 
is performed.
Improving the quality of business planning, project 
management and strategic planning remains 
a key component of risk management tools. 
In addition to financial and operational risks, 
the risk management system covers risks of a social 
and environmental nature. The Board of Directors 
assesses the effectiveness of the risk management 
system.
SCHEMATIC DIAGRAM OF IRMS PROCESS AT THE GAZPROM NEFT GROUP
IDENTIFICATION (REVISION) 
OF RISKS 
(at least once a year)QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE 
RISK ASSESSMENT 
(at least once a year)DEVELOPMENT  
OF MANAGEMENT MEASURES 
(at least once a year)MONITORING OF MEASURES 
(at least once a quarter)
LEVELS OF FINANCIAL IMPACT OF RISK AND DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS WITHIN THE IRMSDISSEMINATION OF METHODOLOGIES
The Management Board adopts key decisions 
and assesses management results. Units directly 
manage this risk category
Management and monitoring at the Unit level 
Management and monitoring at the subsidiary 
and affiliate levelRISKS OF UNITS KEY RISKS 
RISKS OF S&AAUDIT COMMITTEE 
UNIT 
S&A S&A BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
UNIT 
S&A S&A MANAGEMENT BOARD 
CONSOLIDATION OF RISK INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
46
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company continuously develops 
the methodological framework 
for the IRMS, including general recommendations 
on the quantitative risk assessment of project 
and business planning as well as detailed 
methods for assessing the most substantial 
inherent risks such as ‘unscheduled equipment 
downtime’, ‘pipeline failures’ and other risks. 
In 2016, the Company continued developing 
its regulatory and methodological framework 
to assess risks related to industrial, environmental 
and occupational safety as well as civil defence.MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
Risk description Risk management measures
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH HUMAN RESOURCES
Successfully achieving the Company's strategic goals largely 
depends on the efforts and abilities of key employees, 
including skilled technical personnel. The inability to recruit 
personnel and/or retain existing personnel with the necessary 
skills and experience could have a negative effect 
on the Company's appeal as an employer. Factors that 
increase HR risks include a growing shortage of skilled 
specialists and, as a consequence, increased competition 
on the labour market in Russia and abroad.Gazprom Neft offers competitive remuneration, including a salary, performance-based bonuses 
and a social benefits package. The Company develops and implements programmes to establish 
a talent pool as well as train and develop personnel which aim to meet its demand for qualified 
staff both now and in the future. 
Gazprom Neft is improving its recruitment procedures and undertaking measures to reduce staff 
turnover and encourage staff to realize their potential.
The Company implements social investment programmes in its regions of operation that aim 
to improve the quality of life of employees and their families, among other things.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
The Group is exposed to risks associated with the safety 
of its employees and their operations. Such risks may arise 
as a result of equipment damage and failure, natural disasters, 
terrorist attacks or the actions or inaction of personnel. 
Any of these risks could have a materially adverse effect 
on the business, financial situation, operating results 
or reputation of Gazprom Neft.Gazprom Neft strives to provide a safe working environment for its employees and seeks 
to avoid injury or death, actions brought against the Group or damage to its business reputation. 
The Company constantly monitors safety threats, and pays particular attention to complying 
with сompliance with industrial safety.
ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
Gazprom Neft’s operations carry an inherent risk 
of environmental damage or pollution, which may lead 
to civil liability and require action to mitigate such damage. 
Environmental risks and expenses related to compliance 
with environmental requirements or commitments may 
increase in the future as the Company’s production activities 
and assets expand.The Company is fully aware of its responsibility to the public for creating safe working conditions 
and protecting the natural environment. Gazprom Neft ensures compliance with environmental 
protection standards and also monitors changes in environmental legislation in the various 
countries in which it operates. The Company also implements programmes to minimise its 
negative impact on the environment as well as nature conservation and biodiversity preservation 
programmes.
Read more in the ‘Safe Development: Industrial and Environmental Safety,  
Occupational Health and Safety, Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation’ section p. 76Gazprom Neft Shelf obtained a certificate on the compliance of its risk management 
system with the requirements of ISO 31000:2009 and the PMBOK Guide standard 
in February 2016. Independent auditors noted the thorough integration of the risk 
management system in all the Company’s fundamental processes, management’s 
leadership and interest in this issue as well as the high degree of involvement 
by personnel and contractors in the risk management process. The Company plans 
to further expand the IRMS as it launches new products or acquires existing assets.EXPANSION OF THE IRMS
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
47
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft has a number of key groups of stakeholders whose interests 
are most inextricably linked to its activities and can have the greatest effect 
on the Company’s ability to implement its strategic goals.
The main priorities of stakeholder engagement are reflected in corporate 
documents: the Corporate Conduct Code, Corporate Code and documents 
governing certain areas of business.
Gazprom Neft maintains a continuous dialogue with key stakeholders on all 
important matters. The dialogue agenda is based on the Company’s continuous 
analysis of the internal and external social environment taking into its strategic 
targets and the priorities of stakeholders.STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
GAZPROM NEFT’S STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SYSTEM AIMS TO ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND HARMONISE THE INTERESTS OF ALL STAKEHOLDERS. ENGAGEMENT 
WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS IS BASED ON THE PRINCIPLES OF MUTUAL RESPECT AND COOPERATION, 
THE INFORMATION TRANSPARENCY OF THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITIES, REGULAR INTERACTION 
AND COMPLIANCE WITH OBLIGATIONS.
Primary mechanisms for stakeholder engagement:
 >business contracts and cooperation agreements; 
 >business meetings and presentations; 
 >corporate communications system; 
 >public hearings; 
 >joint working groups; 
 >hotlines for employees and customers; 
 >surveys and studies on the opinions 
of employees, consumers and local communities; 
 >membership in public or expert associations; 
 >conferences and roundtables; 
 >corporate reporting.
The most effective mechanisms and tools 
are selected based on the goals and objectives 
of engagement and depend on the specific group 
of stakeholders.KEY GROUPS OF THE COMPANY’S STAKEHOLDERS
COMPANYEMPLOYEES SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
SUPPLIERS LOCAL COMMUNITIESGOVERNMENT 
AUTHORITIES
PUBLIC ORGANISATIONS CONSUMERS
48
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company’s largest shareholder is Gazprom PJSC, which owns a 95.68% 
stake in the Company’s common shares. The remaining 4.32% of common shares 
are distributed among minority shareholders that include individuals and legal 
entities. The Company supports securities trading on the Moscow Stock Exchange 
through the regular disclosure of information and the release of documents 
in accordance with the requirements of the Exchange.
The procedures used to prepare for and hold General Meetings of Shareholders  
enable shareholders to review the necessary information, easily register 
as a participant in a General Meeting of Shareholders and take part in voting. 
The Regulation on the General Meeting of Shareholders guarantees shareholders’ 
equal opportunity to express their opinion and ask any questions they might have 
(including to members of the Company’s Management Board).
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 10 June 2016 considered 
the payment of dividends based on the results of the Company’s activities in 2015 
and decided to pay dividends in the amount of RUB 6.47 per share (taking into 
account dividends paid for the first half of the 2015 financial year).Engagement mechanisms:
 >General Meeting of Shareholders; 
 >corporate reporting; 
 >meetings with Company management; 
 >conference calls for investors; 
 >quarterly publication of an analyst’s handbook 
and the monthly publication of a statistical 
compilation; 
 >the Company’s participation in the conferences 
of investment and broker organisations; 
 >the annual Investor Day involving Gazprom Neft 
senior executives; 
 >off-site meetings for investors at production 
and extraction sites; 
 >updating of information in the ‘Investors’ 
section on the Company’s website 
www.gazprom-neft.comSHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS
Key issues:
 >strategy implementation; 
 >corporate governance and risk management; 
 >respect for shareholder rights;
 >improving the efficiency of production 
and industrial safety levels 
RUB 6.47
dividend payments per share based 
on 2015 resultsRead more about the General Meetings of Shareholders 
in the  Company’s Annual Report for 2016
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
49
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company's interaction with employees is governed by internal regulations, 
collective agreements and the Corporate Code. In following the principles 
of social partnership, the Company actively interacts with trade union 
organisations representing the interests of workers.
Gazprom Neft works continuously to improve its internal corporate 
communications system with special attention paid to feedback tools. 
The Company regularly conducts studies of the social and psychological climate 
based on which it identifies existing problems in the workforce and develops 
measures to eliminate them.Engagement mechanisms:
 >internal corporate communications system; 
 >meetings between work teams and managers 
at Gazprom Neft enterprises devoted 
to the current agenda of business 
and cooperation issues; 
 >studies of the social and psychological climate 
at the Company’s enterprises; 
 >corporate events; 
 >cultural and sporting events.
Engagement mechanisms:
 >agreement on socioeconomic partnership; 
 >joint working groups, roundtables and meetings; 
 >corporate reporting; 
 >participation in commissions and conferences.EMPLOYEES
GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIESKey issues:
 >remuneration and social support system; 
 >safe working conditions; 
 >employee training and development.
Key issues:
 >improvements to the regulation and stimulation 
of the development of the oil and gas sector; 
 >the Company’s strategic development; 
 >the development of the raw materials base; 
 >the Company’s role in developing its regions 
of operations; 
 >the environmental impact of the Company’s 
production activities; 
 >compliance of the Company’s activities 
with the legislative norms of the Russian 
Federation.Read more about employee engagement and the results of these 
activities in the ‘Human Resource Development’ p. 56
Read more about interaction with the government authorities 
and the results of these activities in the ‘Regional Policy 
and Development of Local Communities’ p. 112Gazprom Neft works with government authorities at the federal and regional 
levels. The Company is committed to contributing to the sustainable 
development of the regions where it operates and the country as a whole 
as well as modernising and developing the oil industry taking into account 
the actual socioeconomic situation and the goals for the development 
of the regions and the industry. Gazprom Neft specialists actively take part 
in drafting and improving regional legislation and the regulatory framework 
in the industry.
Gazpromneft – Bitumen Materials and FSUE Main Road and Airfield Construction 
Department under the Russian Federal Agency for Special Construction signed 
a cooperation agreement. The parties will join forces for R&D and laboratory 
testing to study binder compounds – from conventional and modified binders 
to bitumen derivative products – and monitor their quality taking into account 
the climatic and operating conditions of different regions. This cooperation will 
result in the development of high-quality bitumen materials for the future projects 
of the Federal Agency for Special Construction which will make it possible 
to increase the service life of road and airfield pavement.СOOPERATION AGREEMENT 
50
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Engagement mechanisms:
 >contracts; 
 >mass media; 
 >business meetings, including off-site meetings; 
 >conferences and forums; 
 >complaint handling system; 
 >reporting.Engagement mechanisms:
 >competitive measures; 
 >contracts and agreements; 
 >business meetings and Company forums; 
 >external conferences and exhibitions; 
 >corporate website.
CUSTOMERSSUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS
Key issues:
 >product quality; 
 >improved customer service level; 
 >transparent pricing; 
 >ethical business practice.Key issues:
 >observance of mutual obligations; 
 >support for domestic manufacturers; 
 >transparency, openness and competitiveness 
in the selection of contractors; 
 >observance of business ethics and anti-
corruption.
Read more about interaction with suppliers and the results 
of these activities in the ‘About the Company’ p. 10
Read more about interaction with customers and the results of these activities  
in the ‘About the Company’ p. 10in person, study products in detail and discuss important issues.
The Company regularly analyses the demand and level of satisfaction among 
its customers and develops a system to address their complaints.In April 2016, Gazpromneft-Lubricants presented an updated concept for partner 
relations in 2016 at the fourth ‘Association of Automobile Dealers’ (AAD) 
convention. The package proposal offered to automobile dealers by Gazpromneft-
Lubricants includes the development of a long-term cooperation programme 
that aims to retain existing and attract new customers to the dealer maintenance 
stations, form an individual supply plan for G-Energy oil, maintain attractive prices 
for products, provide technical training for service station personnel and conduct 
joint marketing events.LONG-TERM PROGRAMME FOR COOPERATION WITH MAINTENANCE STATIONSGazprom Neft develops mechanisms for cooperation with contractors with a focus 
on being transparent for the market, market pricing as well as long-term 
and structured relationships. The Company pursues long-term contracting, 
adapts pricing mechanisms to current influential factors and introduces additional 
components of motivation for counterparties.
Gazprom Neft is committed to providing comprehensive support to domestic 
producers in helping them to develop new types of products and technologies 
and promotes the development of a national production base and network 
of suppliers. When choosing services and equipment to implement its projects, 
the Company gives preference to goods, work and services of Russian origin. 
More than 90% of the funds that Gazprom Neft spends on procurements go 
to Russian contractors. The Company is also actively involved in the work 
of intersectoral groups to support initiatives associated with the establishment 
of joint ventures and the localisation of production capacity as well as the R&D 
of leading foreign producers working in Russia.
Engagement with the Company’s customers aims 
to build long-term mutually beneficial relationships. 
In order to achieve this goal, the Company 
carries out programmes to improve the quality 
and environmental friendliness of its products, 
strives to provide customers with prompt and reliable 
information about its products and fosters 
a dialogue with customers. Some of the key tools 
of this dialogue include Gazprom Neft conferences 
for customers and distributors, off-site meetings 
and fact-finding missions during which future 
customers and clients that already cooperate 
with the Company can see the production process Alexander Klimashin
Gazpromneft Lubricants Deputy General Director for SalesWe strive to meet the emerging needs on the Russian market to the maximum 
extent and actively cooperate with large industrial giants as well as with small 
maintenance stations. This is possible due to the large volume and wide range 
of products as well as flexible service programmes and skilled technical support.
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
51
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company develops constructive engagement with local communities 
to support the socioeconomic development of the regions, create a favourable 
environment for the activities of Gazprom Neft and preserve cultural traditions 
as well as the environment of such regions.
The results of dialogues with local communities and studies of the social climate 
in these areas serve as the foundation for the development of the Company’s 
social projects. The Company strives to involve the local population 
in their implementation since it views the social activity of local communities 
as an essential factor for regional development.
In order to generate awareness about its activities and collect comments 
and suggestions, the Company has developed the practice of holding dialogues 
and roundtables with local communities in the regions. Public hearings are also 
a key mechanism of engagement when developing and implementing production 
projects.Engagement mechanisms:
 >social projects as part of the ‘Native Towns’ 
social investment programme; 
 >public hearings, roundtables and dialogues; 
 >corporate and external media relations; 
 >the Company’s reporting.LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Key issues:
 >the Company’s contribution to the socioeconomic 
development of the regions where it operates 
and improvements to the quality of life 
of the local population; 
 >the development of human capital in the regions, 
stimulation of the population’s activity 
and competency in solving the socioeconomic 
development problems and objectives 
of their region; 
 >transparency of the Company’s activities 
and decisions; 
 >the Company’s financial stability; 
 >the industrial and environmental safety 
of the Company’s activities and nature 
conservation measures.Read more about interaction with local communities and the results of these 
activities in the ‘Regional Policy and Development of Local Communities’ p. 112
Engagement mechanisms:
 >conferences and exhibitions; 
 >roundtables; 
 >joint implementation of social projects; 
 >reporting.PUBLIC ORGANISATIONS
Key issues:
 >environmental and industrial safety 
of the Company’s activities and nature 
conservation measures; 
 >the Company’s involvement in regional 
development; 
 >information openness and transparency 
of activities.The Company is involved in different public and expert organisations, 
in particular the activities of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs 
and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation, among 
others. These activities aim to promote the sustainable development of the country 
and the industry.
Gazprom Neft enlists experts from public organisations to develop and implement 
social and environmental projects as well as to discuss the Company’s activities 
at roundtables and conferences in the regions.
Executives and experts from the country’s leading environmental 
organisations – the World Wildlife Fund (WWF Russia), the Development 
and Environment Foundation, the Green Patrol non-profit organisation 
and the Russian Bird Conservation Union visited the Moscow Oil Refinery in 2016. 
The environmentalists inspected the existing system of mechanical treatment 
facilities, studied the operation of the integrated environmental monitoring 
system and visited the construction sites of key projects undergoing the second 
stage of modernisation – the Biosphera innovative biological treatment facilities 
and the latest Euro+ combined oil refining unit.EXPERTS AT THE MOSCOW OIL REFINERY
52
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016In 2016, the Company’s strategic goals were supplemented with the ‘Goal – Zero’, 
which implies no harm to people, the environment or property from Gazprom Neft’s 
operations. A new value – ‘Safety and a Green Focus’ – was added to enshrine 
this priority in the Corporate Code.
One of the key feedback tools that the Company can use to assess how 
satisfied employees are with different aspects of their work and identify 
the Company’s strengths as an employer and areas for improvement is the annual 
social and psychological climate (SPC) study. In 2016, 24,056 employees 
from 50 subsidiaries took part in the study with 300 interviews and 223 focus 
groups conducted.
Among other things, the study results demonstrated growth in the level 
of satisfaction in such areas as:
 >the suggestion submission system (the level of satisfaction 
with the ‘Initiative’ indicator increased by 21 percentage points compared 
with 2015);
 >the communications system (the level of satisfaction increased 
by 11 percentage points);
 >a high level of trust in immediate supervisors and senior executives (the level 
of satisfaction increased by 4 percentage points to 83%).
Blocks of questions were included in the 2016 study on whether employees 
identify ‘Safety and a Green Focus’ as a corporate value. The study results 
revealed that the majority of those polled are aware of and share the new value.
In 2016, Gazprom Neft commenced the transition to the next stage of corporate 
culture development – the culture of harmony in which the key values 
are dialogue and exploration. The study results helped to assess the number 
of employees who currently share the culture of harmony.
Based on the results of the SPC study, Gazprom Neft drafted and implemented 
a plan of corrective measures to improve the social and psychological climate 
at the Company.GAZPROM NEFT’S CORPORATE CULTURE IS FORMED BASED ON THE COMPANY’S VALUES 
OF INTEGRITY, LEADERSHIP, MUTUAL RESPECT, TRUST, A WINNING ATTITUDE AND A RESPONSIBLE 
OWNER. THE FOCUSES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE CORPORATE CULTURE ARE DETERMINED 
BY THE COMPANY’S STRATEGY AND THE CHALLENGES FACED BY THE OIL INDUSTRY. CORPORATE 
CULTURE
VALUES OF GAZPROM NEFT
Safety and a Green Focus. Our priority is the safety 
of people, the environment and the Company’s 
property.
Integrity. We are open and honest with respect 
for one another, the Company, our partners, 
competitors and the public. We practice what 
we preach.
Leadership. We take initiative and strive to be 
the best in everything we do; we set ambitious goals 
and bear personal responsibility for the result.
Winning mentality. We are positive, believe 
in our success, are not afraid of difficulties 
and develop skills to effectively meet major 
challenges.
Responsible owner’s mentality.  We are careful 
with the Company’s assets and resources, and care 
about safety and augmentation.
Mutual respect and trust. We respect ourselves 
and others, solve complex problems together, 
trust each other’s professionalism and help 
our colleagues to achieve success.
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
53
www.gazprom-neft.comInternal corporate communication tools:
 >the unified system of intranet portals 
of Gazprom Neft enterprises; 
 >corporate media (Siberian Oil corporate 
magazine, the Neftegazeta periodical and its 
versions issued by subsidiaries and the corporate 
radio stations of Gazpromneft-Aero and the Omsk 
Oil Refinery); 
 >meetings between management 
and the workforce; 
 >a corporate forum; 
 >a system of television screens; 
 >discussion platforms (conferences, roundtables); 
 >a feedback system.
In accordance with the Company’s strategic 
priorities, the main focuses of corporate 
communications in 2016 were safety and concern 
for the environment, technological effectiveness, 
efficiency and positioning the Company as the best 
employer.
In terms of ‘Technological efficiency’, the Siberian 
Oil corporate magazine launched a new regular 
column called ‘Innovations’ devoted to the advanced 
technologies employed by the Company. 
The Neftegazeta periodical prepared specialised 
spreads about the promising technologies 
of the Downstream Division and Upstream 
Division as well as a series of publications 
about the introduction of the Upstream Division’s 
Technological Strategy. A ‘Technological Strategy’ 
was set up on the corporate portal.INTERNAL 
CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
As part of the project to propagate safety culture, 
a unified visual platform was established to promote 
the ‘Safety and a Green Focus’ corporate value. 
In 2016, the Company continued work to improve 
the corporate portal, in particular:
 >providing support for the initiatives of production 
units on the portal;
 >using television panels to promote the corporate 
portal;
 >establishing a convenient tool to involve 
employees in internal corporate activities;
 >increasing the functionality of the portal 
and creating additional sections.
Employees traditionally have high praise 
for the internal communications system. According 
to the results of the SPC study, 85% of employees 
noted that they receive sufficient information 
about the Company’s activities, while 82% said 
they were well informed about the current issues 
in the work of their enterprises.The Company’s Neftegazeta periodical was recognised 
as the best print publication of the Gazprom Group 
at the seventh PREMIYA public relations corporate 
contest. Neftegazeta also won the ‘Best Design’ 
category at the eleventh Silver Threads corporate 
media national contest.THE BEST PRINT PUBLICATION THE INTERNAL CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM SUPPORTS 
THE CORPORATE CULTURE AND DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES. 
IN ORDER FOR THE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM TO REACH 
100% OF EMPLOYEES, THE COMPANY EMPLOYS A BROAD 
RANGE OF FORMATS AND TOOLS THAT ALLOW FOR PROMPTLY 
PROVIDING INFORMATION, MANAGING THIS PROCESS AND TRUST 
FROM EMPLOYEES.
The main focuses 
of corporate 
communications 
in 2016 were safety 
and concern for 
the environment, 
technological 
effectiveness, 
efficiency 
and positioning 
the Company 
as the best 
employer.
54
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company develops a communications system that aims to build a dialogue 
with outside audiences, inform stakeholders about significant events 
in the Company’s activities, foster the reputation of Gazprom Neft and promote 
its brand.
The Company’s engagement with the media is regulated by the corporate 
standard and policy of information transparency to which Gazprom Neft strictly 
adheres. Gazprom Neft websites, which are consolidated into a single integrated 
system, are an essential tool for communications with outside audiences. 
A total of 212 official reports about the Company’s activities were published 
on the www.gazprom-neft.com  website in 2016.
News about the full-scale launch of two major hydrocarbon fields in the Yamalo-
Nenets Autonomous District – Novoportovskoye on 25 May 2016 and East 
Messoyakha on 21 September 2016 – generated the biggest response among 
outside audiences. Russian President Vladimir Putin gave the command via a video 
link to start oil shipments from the Novoportovskoye field via the Gates of the Arctic 
terminal as well as the commissioning of the East Messoyakha field.
The oil refinery modernisation programme and Gazprom Neft’s national project 
to develop catalyst production were also significant themes of the Company’s 
external communications in the reporting year.
The corporate website serves as a tool for feedback from outside audiences. 
All inquiries received via the portal are analysed and sent to the appropriate 
departments of Gazprom Neft for further processing. The total number of visitors 
to the Company’s corporate website reached two million people in 2016.
The social media pages of Gazprom Neft and the Gazpromneft filling station 
network are updated daily to ensure more effective engagement with different 
groups of the Company’s target audience. The Company promptly responds 
to questions and suggestions received from stakeholders, including from potential 
partners and consumers of Gazprom Neft products as well as the customers EXTERNAL 
COMMUNICATIONS
of the Gazpromneft filling station network. 
Publications about the Company’s significant social 
projects are also disseminated in the communities 
of the ‘Native Towns’ social investments 
programme. The total number of subscribers 
to the Company’s popular social media pages 
is closing in on 150,000 people.
Communication channels with outside audiences 
include regular press conferences and briefings 
by the Company’s senior executives that are attended 
by leading national and industry-related media 
outlets. Gazprom Neft also arranges media tours 
of its production facilities. The Company organised 
a national media tour in St. Petersburg in 2016 as part 
of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 
Journalists visited the Gazprom Neft Scientific 
and Technical Centre at which the Company’s 
Technological Strategy was presented to media 
members and Gazprom Neft senior executives held 
a briefing.
The Company’s effective work in external 
communications was recognised by the professional 
community in 2016. Gazprom Neft received an award 
for the management of its information policy 
at the industry-wide KonTEKst-2016 contest among 
the journalists and press services of oil and gas 
sector companies. A panel comprised of media 
members and independent experts assessed 
the Company’s work based on the following criteria: 
the press service’s influence on the Company’s 
performance results, information activity, promptness 
and the completeness of information provided 
to the media and professionalism in interaction 
with journalists.2 mn people
total number of visitors 
to the Company’s corporate 
website in 2016
Gazprom Neft develops and implements special projects with the media 
reflecting the Company’s key priorities: production technological efficiency 
and effectiveness, eco-friendliness and safety. In 2016, the feature films 
‘The First Arctic’ about the development history of the Novoportovskoye 
field and ‘Prirazlomnaya. No Margin for Error’ were produced with support 
from the Rossiya 24 and Russia Today television channels. A special project 
‘Accepted for Refining’ devoted to Gazpromneft – Omsk Oil Refinery, the largest 
in Russia, was implemented jointly with Kommersant Publishing House.COOPERATION WITH THE MEDIA
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
55
www.gazprom-neft.comHUMAN RESOURCE 
DEVELOPMENT
Gazprom Neft’s employees are the Company’s key 
asset and strategic partners in achieving its sustainable 
development goals. The Gazprom Neft’s team includes 
professionals with a high level of involvement who share 
the Company’s values. Taking care of their well-being 
and attracting and retaining the best employees is a top 
priority for Gazprom Neft.GOALS AND RESULTS 
IN 2016
To manage the employer brand and promote 
the Company’s value proposition
To create a unified external and internal talent 
management model
To develop the model of an interregional recruiting centre 
within the Company
To develop the concept of a shared service centre 
at the Company for HR management processes
To establish the Gazprom Neft Corporate University
To develop a business process management 
and description model for the Corporate UniversityGoal achieved. Detailed results presented in the ‘Employer brand’ section 
of this chapter.
Research conducted in the Company’s divisions and concept selected 
for internal and external talent management.
Interregional Recruiting Centre (IRC) established. Two Regional Recruiting 
Centres (RRC) opened in St. Petersburg (to service product business units) 
and Tyumen (to serve subsidiaries of the Upstream Division). Ten subsidiaries 
switched to services at the IRC and RRC.
Analysis conducted of the current state of the HR Management function. 
Transaction processes identified. Description of target business processes 
prepared.
Corporate University launched operations with the opening of five faculties 
and ten departments.
Role-based structures developed as part of the approved Corporate 
University concept for five faculties and the departments therein as well 
as flow charts for 14 new business processes (‘Book of Processes’ with 
ARIS models), which formalise the work procedure, roles and functions 
of the Corporate University and related units.GOALS RESULTS
58
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GAZPROM NEFT EMPLOYED MORE THAN 66,000 PEOPLE IN 2016 
WITH BLUE-COLLAR WORKERS MAKING UP 51% OF PERSONNEL, 
AND EXECUTIVES, SPECIALISTS AND OFFICE EMPLOYEES MAKING UP 
THE REMAINING 49%. 
The Company features the following major personnel clusters:
 >Yamalo-Nenets and Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Districts (primary oil 
production assets) – approximately 19%;
 >St. Petersburg and Leningrad Region (management company and a number 
of subsidiaries in charge of petroleum product sales) – approximately 21%;
 >Omsk Region (Omsk Oil Refinery, Omsk Lubricants Plant and a number 
of supply, logistics and sales enterprises) – approximately 14%;
 >Serbia (the multifunctional company NIS) – approximately 9%;
 >CIS countries (sales companies and trade representative offices) – 
approximately 6%.
The average number of personnel increased by 1.8% to 62,998 employees 
in 2016. The increase is due to the effect of a full year passing since the merger 
of ITSC LLC with Gazprom Neft in 2015, changes in the production programme 
for extractive assets, an expansion in the coverage area of service enterprises 
as well as restructuring of the Company’s sales assets.
A total of 14,841 employees joined Gazprom Neft in the reporting year, while 
14,335 people left the Company. The turnover rate was 15.2% in 2016, a 1% 
decrease from 2015.PROFILE 
OF PERSONNEL 
STRUCTURE OF COMPANY PERSONNEL BY CORE ACTIVITY 
AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 (people)
Source: Company dataAVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONNEL (people)
Source: Company data
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONNEL BY GENDER 
(people)
Source: Company data
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONNEL BY AGE (people)
Source: Company data
Petroleum product sales 
Production Multi-proﬁle enterprises Oil reﬁning Oilﬁeld service and geological exploration Jet fuel supply Product subsidiaries Research Other21,797
11,082
5,857
5,134
4,412
2,127
2,354
945
12,853
66,561
people2014
20122015
20132016 62,998
54,82955,97557,51561,862
/uni0421/uni0440/uni0435/uni0434/uni043D/uni0435/uni0441/uni043F/uni0438/uni0441/uni043E/uni0447/uni043D/uni0430/uni044F /uni0447/uni0438/uni0441/uni043B/uni0435/uni043D/uni043D/uni043E/uni0441/uni0442/uni044C /uni043F/uni0435/uni0440/uni0441/uni043E/uni043D/uni0430/uni043B/uni0430 /uni0432 /uni0440/uni0430/uni0437/uni0431/uni0438/uni0432/uni043A/uni0435 /uni043F/uni043E /uni043F/uni043E/uni043B/uni0443, /uni0447/uni0435/uni043B.
Men
Women2012 2013 
35,443 19,38634,816 21,15934,679 22,83637,574 24,28838,649 24,349
2014 2015 2016
54,829 55,975 57,515 61,862 62,998
/uni0421/uni0440/uni0435/uni0434/uni043D/uni0435/uni0441/uni043F/uni0438/uni0441/uni043E/uni0447/uni043D/uni0430/uni044F /uni0447/uni0438/uni0441/uni043B/uni0435/uni043D/uni043D/uni043E/uni0441/uni0442/uni044C /uni043F/uni0435/uni0440/uni0441/uni043E/uni043D/uni0430/uni043B/uni0430 /uni0432 /uni0440/uni0430/uni0437/uni0431/uni0438/uni0432/uni043A/uni0435
/uni043F/uni043E /uni0432/uni043E/uni0437/uni0440/uni0430/uni0441/uni0442/uni0443, /uni0447/uni0435/uni043B.
Over 50 Under 30
30–502012 2013 
31,415 10,294 13,12032,249 10,511 13,21432,849 10,651 14,01535,415 11,443 15,00438,298 9,951 14,749
2014 2015 2016
54,829 55,975 57,515 61,862 62,998
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
59
www.gazprom-neft.comTHE COMPANY HAS AN HR MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM FOR THE PERIOD UNTIL 2020 
WHICH ENSURES WORK IN THIS AREA 
IS LINKED WITH THE GENERAL CORPORATE 
STRATEGY.
Gazprom Neft’s strategic HR goal 
is to provide the Company with a sufficient number 
of skilled and motivated employees in the present 
and the future to effectively achieve the Company’s 
key goals. 
Key areas of the HR Management Strategy:
 >systematic recruitment and rotation 
of personnel; 
 >talent management, competency development 
and training; 
 >development of an incentive system and culture 
of engagement; 
 >growth in productivity and organisational 
efficiency; 
 >improved efficiency of the HR system.HR 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Olga Zuykova
Director of the Gazprom Neft  
HR DepartmentThe tasks handled by the HR Department 
aim to achieve the Company’s business 
goals. In order to successfully meet 
these goals, the HR strategy is integrated 
with the Company’s general strategy 
and development concept, while the business 
tasks are converted into objectives to develop 
the Company’s HR potential.The Gazprom Neft HR management policy seeks 
to meet the business strategy and sustainable 
development goals taking into account 
the expectations of stakeholders (employees, 
shareholders and trade unions).
Regulatory documents and programmes 
concerning the existing social and labour relations 
at Gazprom Neft are drafted in strict compliance 
with the Constitution of the Russian Federation 
and Russian legislation, including the Labour Code 
of the Russian Federation. The Company monitors 
and controls compliance with labour legislation 
by officials. 
Gazprom Neft respects human rights, provides 
equal opportunities and does not discriminate 
based on nationality, sex, origin, age or any other 
grounds. The company does not use child or forced 
labour. HR issues are resolved based on the skills 
and professional qualities of employees as well 
as business requirements. 
Regulatory framework for Company-employee 
relations:
 >Constitution of the Russian Federation;
 >Labour Code of the Russian Federation;
 >Gazprom Neft Corporate Conduct Code;
 >Collective bargaining agreements.COMPANY-EMPLOYEE RELATIONSGazprom Neft 
respects 
human rights, 
provides equal 
opportunities  
and does not 
discriminate based 
on nationality, sex, 
origin, age or any 
other grounds.
60
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016In 2016, the Company finished introducing 
a functional management model in which 
the heads of key corporate and production 
functions are actively involved in HR development. 
Business goals can be better integrated into 
HR policy objectives and more effectively 
achieved as a result of the project. The initiative 
promotes skill development among employees 
and the dissemination of best practices 
and technologies within the Company.
Gazprom Neft continuously works to improve 
labour efficiency. The Company has a key 
performance indicator system that includes 
parameters for various levels of management 
and individual targets.HR DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATE CENTRE 
(ORGANISATIONAL AFFAIRS UNIT)
PRODUCTION UNIT HR MANAGEMENT OFFICE
SUBSIDIARY HR MANAGEMENT OFFICE >Development of HR management strategy
 >Development of key HR management programmes 
and projects (incentive and training programmes, creating 
a talent pool) and monitoring their implementation
 >Strategic management of labour relations
 >Implementing strategic programmes and all projects 
involving HR management at subsidiaries within the unit
 >Supporting day-to-day operations as part of the HR 
and social policy
 >Operating activities involving HR management 
at subsidiaries (personnel records, administration of labor 
remuneration, compensation and social benefits, planning 
of personnel numbers and costs) in accordance with 
the Company's strategyORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE  
OF HR MANAGEMENT AT GAZPROM NEFT
Paylak Khachatryan
Head of the Organisational Development 
Office at Gazprom NeftA functional leader is someone who has skills 
and functional expertise, sees the whole 
picture and can find an optimal solution both 
for employees as well as for business in terms 
of allocating resources and utilising unified 
approaches and best practices.
The Company 
has a key 
performance 
indicator system  
that includes 
parameters for 
various levels of 
management and 
individual targets.
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
61
www.gazprom-neft.comEMPLOYER 
BRAND
Gazprom Neft finished second in the Randstad 
Award-2016 international rating in the energy 
sector behind its parent company Gazprom, joining 
the leading employers in the Russian oil and gas 
industry. The Company also received a special prize 
as the most appealing employer for young people. 
Gazprom Neft was also among the top three best 
Russian employers for engineering and natural 
science students in the Universum Top 100 Russia 
rating, which is compiled based on a survey 
of 25,000 Russian students from 93 universities.
Olga Zuykova
Director of the Gazprom Neft HR DepartmentSecuring top spots in the rating of the best 
employers for students is further confirmation 
that Gazprom Neft has selected the right HR 
strategy. Competition among employers has 
taken on global proportions and we are glad 
that our Company has a firm grip on the top 
positions, including in international ratings.Gazprom Neft proposes to:
 >Create and take pride in what it has created
 >Create a history for future generations
 >Meet interesting challenges
 >Create and apply new approaches
 >Take advantage of opportunities for personal 
fulfilmentEMPLOYER VALUE PROPOSITION 
Gazprom Neft developed an employer value 
proposition in 2015 following a number of extensive 
surveys encompassing employees and Company 
candidates. It was formulated based on the requests 
and expectations of target audiences taking 
into account the Company’s strategic objectives 
and its competitive position in the global oil and gas 
industry. The value proposition is supported 
by the Company’s policies and practices 
and conveyed via the most effective communications 
channels. The value proposition is intended to create 
a strong brand for the Company as an employer that 
attracts and retains the best employees.
A diagnosis of employees’ perception of the value 
proposition is included in a socio-psychological 
climate study which the Company conducts 
each year. Based on the results of the diagnosis 
performed in 2016, employees’ perception 
of the value proposition was analysed and areas 
of development were identified for 2017.
The Company’s HR and Remuneration Committee 
approved an approach for introducing the employer 
value proposition as a tool to motivate employees 
at a meeting during the reporting year. Under 
this approach, Gazprom Neft’s functions included 
sessions at which it created comprehensive appeals 
to its employees and candidates. The Company 
also held sessions with managers that aimed to put 
the most effective motivation methods into practice, 
including on the basis of the value proposition. 
In 2016, Gazprom Neft once again confirmed its 
status as one of the country’s best employers. The 
Company finished second in the ‘Russian Employers’ 
rating compiled by Headhunter recruiting company. 
Gazprom Neft established its own nomination 
‘New Approaches’ as part of the ‘HR Brand’ prize 
for projects involving HR management.THE COMPANY IS CONSISTENTLY AMONG THE COUNTRY’S BEST 
EMPLOYERS AND PERFORMS TARGETED WORK TO ATTRACT, 
ENGAGE AND RETAIN THE BEST EMPLOYEES.
25,000
Russian 
students
took part in a survey 
for the Universum Top 
100 Russia rating based 
on which Gazprom Neft was 
rated as one of Russia’s top 
three employers
62
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company employs a remuneration policy that identifies the goals, main 
objectives, principles and components of the remuneration system, benefits 
and elements of non-financial incentive for employees. 
Gazprom Neft’s remuneration and incentive system is comprised of:
 >base remuneration;
 >short-term and long-term bonuses;
 >benefits and compensation;
 >elements of non-financial incentive: corporate and government awards, 
corporate events and professional skills competitions, among other things.
Gazprom Neft conducts regular monitoring of the external market and makes 
sure that all the components of its remuneration system remain competitive. 
The Company regularly revises salaries in accordance with labour market 
dynamics in the oil and gas sector.
The average monthly salary of the Company’s employees was RUB 104,919 
in 2016 (RUB 100,222 in 2015 and RUB 84,775 in 2014).
The Company continued work in 2016 to introduce unified approaches 
to remuneration. The Downstream Division developed a targeted structure of base 
remuneration for its subsidiaries which specifies the principles for incorporating 
elements of base remuneration into the variable part of remuneration and unifies 
all supplemental payments and allowances. A list of the Downstream Division’s 
working professions was systematised based on levels of complexity along 
with the formation of a unified catalogue of workers’ professions. The catalogue 
will serve as the basis for the development of the Division’s unified salary scale.
Gazprom Neft devotes significant attention to improving the variable 
remuneration system since the bonus system is precisely what provides a link 
to results and ensures a focus on the Company’s key goals.REMUNERATION 
AND SOCIAL SUPPORT FOR PERSONNEL
GAZPROM NEFT’S COMPREHENSIVE REMUNERATION SYSTEM 
IS LINKED TO ITS STRATEGIC GOALS AND AIMS TO ENSURE 
THAT REMUNERATION IS COMPETITIVE COMPARED WITH OTHER 
COMPANIES, RETAIN TALENT AT GAZPROM NEFT, PROVIDE 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR CAREER GROWTH AND ROTATION WITHIN 
THE COMPANY AND CREATE INCENTIVE FOR EMPLOYEES 
TO MEET THE OBJECTIVES THAT HAVE BEEN SET FOR THEM.The Company updated its bonus system for long-
term and major projects in 2016.
Gazpromneft – Bitumen Materials and the Moscow 
Oil Refinery implemented pilot projects to improve 
the effectiveness of variable remuneration. 
The companies introduced a unified bonus system 
for production personnel that links each employee’s 
remuneration to the performance results achieved 
by the production units of the Division’s subsidiaries 
using key performance indicators. 
The subsidiaries of the Regional Sales Directorate 
underwent an assessment to determine 
whether their incentive system conforms 
with the Directorate’s new business models 
and approved strategies. Current bonus levels 
for the Directorate’s operating and business unit 
personnel were also updated. 
The Downstream Division will continue 
implementing projects in 2017 to systematise 
remuneration: the development of a unified 
salary scale, the replication of the bonus system 
for production personnel used at the Division’s other 
subsidiaries, a transition to a targeted structure 
of base remuneration and the development 
of a unified approach to bonuses for innovation, 
rationalisation proposals and operational 
improvements.  
The Company has a unified social benefits 
system comprised of basic and additional 
payments that it employs at all its subsidiaries. 
The unified principles for providing social benefits 
to all employees and compiling a list of benefits 
for all the Company’s subsidiaries are governed 
by the corresponding Gazprom Neft policy.
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
63
www.gazprom-neft.comBasic benefits offered by Gazprom Neft:
 >voluntary health insurance (including 
consultations and treatment at leading Russian 
clinics, if necessary);
 >accident insurance;
 >supplemental payments exceeding the maximum 
disability benefits prescribed by the legislation 
of the Russian Federation, including for leave 
for maternity and birth;
 >compensatory payments to employees 
on childcare leave;
 >the provision of social leave related to family 
circumstances and other benefits.
Additional benefits:
 >payment of health resort treatment for workers, 
subscriptions to health groups and corporate 
discounts for subscriptions to sports clubs;
 >various types of financial assistance for family 
events;
 >housing programmes;
 >a private pension, among other benefits.The Company focuses on offering a balanced social package and a competitive 
level of social benefits for its employees regardless of external economic 
conditions.
A key component of the remuneration system is the non-financial incentive 
programme, which aims to increase the loyalty of personnel and recognise 
the merits of the best employees. The programme is implemented at the level 
of subsidiaries as well as functions and divisions in accordance with the objectives 
of the enterprise or division based on general corporate values. Gazprom Neft’s 
non-financial incentive programmes include individual and team-based 
professional skills competitions, mass recreation and leisure activities, corporate 
communications sessions and forums. The Company devotes special attention 
to corporate sport competitions and traditionally holds Summer and Winter 
Games.
A key component of the programme is to recognise merits and achievements 
as an element of the performance assessment. The Company annually presents 
corporate awards, including ‘Honoured Worker of Gazprom Neft’ and ‘Veteran 
of Gazprom Neft’. 
The Downstream Division employs a recognition programme called ‘Best Result’, 
which recognises the Division’s employees for excellent performance indicators, 
creative activity and the successful implementation of projects and major 
strategic initiatives. The Downstream Division also holds competitions among 
teams from its oil refineries in nominations that reflect their strategic priorities.
PERSONNEL EXPENSES (RUB mn)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Payroll 39,364 45,040 58,510 74,400 79,316
Social payments 2,896 3,186 2,097 2,432 3,260
Total 42,260 48,226 60,607 76,832 82,576
EXPENDITURES ON SOCIAL PACKAGE AND BENEFITS (RUB 1,000)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Free and subsidised meals 493,052 522,774 526,988 711,380 764,480
Voluntary health insurance 529,623 650,709 719,561 698,542 847,477
Payment of travel vouchers 109,761 115,705 166,522 121,041 183,817
Housing programme 124,132 121,329 181,038 215,405 142,069
Sport and cultural events for employees 290,222 317,599 125,537 129,136 197,154
64
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Upstream Division and Shelf Project 
Development Division hand out a ‘Recognition 
of the Best’ prize each year. Awards are presented 
for impressive achievements to enterprises, 
projects, employees, production teams, contractors 
and the best in the profession. The prize includes 
nominations for occupational safety, lean 
manufacturing and innovations.
Vadim Yakovlev
Gazprom Neft First Deputy CEO and Head of the 
Upstream DivisionThe corporate slogan ‘Strive for more’ 
reflects the essence of the ‘Recognition 
of the Best’ ceremony. A well-deserved 
award is given to people who are involved, 
interested in a particular issue and have 
desire to ‘go the extra mile’ as well as create 
and apply something new in any project. 
We will choose the best based on this criteria.COOPERATION 
WITH TRADE UNIONS
THE COMPANY ACTIVELY DEVELOPS ITS PARTNERSHIP WITH TRADE 
UNION ORGANISATIONS. GAZPROM NEFT IS COMMITTED 
TO ENSURING GREATER INVOLVEMENT BY TRADE UNIONS 
IN THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITIES AND EXPANDING THE SCOPE 
OF DUTIES OF TRADE UNION LEADERS, WHICH ENABLES THEM 
TO PROTECT THE LONG-TERM INTERESTS OF EMPLOYEES TAKING 
INTO ACCOUNT THE BALANCED INTERESTS OF ALL STAKEHOLDERS.
Gazprom Neft’s social obligations are enshrined in local regulatory acts (LRA) 
and collective bargaining agreements that govern social and labour relations 
between the employer and employees. These LRA and agreements reflect both 
health and safety issues and the obligations that the Company undertakes 
in this regard with respect to its employees.
Trade union representatives are actively involved in work to develop a culture 
of occupational safety in the Company’s production activities, discussions 
concerning changes to the Company’s social benefits system, meetings 
of HR service executives and activities to create safe work conditions. 
The Company has a Youth Commission that protects the interests of young 
workers and new young specialists taking part in adaptation programmes.
Gazprom Neft takes part in forming industry-based agreements for each 
area of the Company’s business jointly with industry-based trade unions 
and the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.In an effort to promote a culture of occupational 
safety, the Downstream Division added a special 
nomination ‘Goal – Zero’ to the ‘Best Result’ 
recognition programme in 2016. The first winner was 
the Omsk Refinery’s Mechanical Repair Plant. ‘GOAL – ZERO’RUB 104,919  
average monthly salary 
at the Company in 2016 ↑ 4.7%
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
65
www.gazprom-neft.comGAZPROM NEFT CONTINUES TO INCREASE INVESTMENT 
IN PERSONNEL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT WHILE RELYING 
ON THE BEST DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE 
IN THIS FIELD. THE COMPANY’S TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 
SYSTEM ENCOMPASSES ALL CATEGORIES OF PERSONNEL AS WELL 
AS TARGETED GROUPS OF POTENTIAL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING 
SCHOOLCHILDREN AND UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.
The scope of training programmes is determined by the Company’s strategic 
objectives and the results of an evaluation of the management and professional 
competencies of employees.
In 2016, Gazprom Neft began establishing a Corporate University, which 
systematically unites all personnel training and development practices employed 
by the Company and builds a strong foundation for further development taking 
into account external trends and the Company’s strategic goals.
The concept of the Corporate University was approved by the Gazprom Neft HR 
and Remuneration Committee. In order to resolve strategic issues and identify 
areas for the development of the Corporate University, the university established 
a Board of Trustees that includes Gazprom Neft senior executives.
Key areas of the Corporate University’s activities:
 >forming an educational environment that meets the Company’s strategic goals 
in working with personnel;
 >the extensive introduction of workplace development methods into practice;
 >the involvement of managers and employees in knowledge management;
 >the targeted development of critical competencies;
 >cross-functional development and training in new professions.
The Corporate University’s structure includes faculties and departments 
established on the basis of professional communities of experts and internal 
coaches at the Company. The University already has:
 >an Exploration and Production Faculty (including production departments 
of the Upstream and Shelf Project Development Divisions);
 >a Downstream Division Faculty;
 >a Corporate Functions Faculty (which includes the corporate functions 
departments of all divisions);
 >an Occupational Safety and Efficiency Faculty;
 >a Management and General Corporate Competencies Faculty.PERSONNEL TRAINING 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Vitaly Baranov
Gazprom Neft Deputy CEO  
for Organisational MattersBack in the last century, a person who chose 
a profession could use the knowledge 
he obtained for his entire life. But the world 
is changing at an increasingly rapid pace. 
We are shifting to a need for continuous 
training when the development of new skills 
is a significant part of each employee’s 
professional duties. Gazprom Neft can only 
achieve its ambitious goals if its staff has 
a highly developed level of management 
and professional competencies 
and if educational programmes can 
rapidly respond to the changes occurring 
in the business world. The creation 
of a Corporate University is an evolutionary 
step for the employee development system that 
allows for integrating the best training practices 
and introducing new educational technologies.RUB 707.2  mn
spending on personnel training 
and development in 2016 
52,582
employees
underwent training in 2016
66
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 20161 In previous Sustainable Development Reports data on training was given for 10 main subsidiaries. Starting from 2013, statistics are given for all the Company’s subsidiaries.Ten departments have opened within the faculties 
with more than 30 scheduled to open in the future.
A unique feature of the Gazprom Neft Corporate 
University is its focus on the large-scale 
involvement of Company employees in training 
activities. The model chosen by the Company 
to build the University assumes that a high 
percentage of development activities are drafted, 
organised and carried out with the involvement 
of Gazprom Neft specialists who are ready to serve 
as experts, speakers, internal coaches as well 
as the leaders and heads of departments.
PERSONNEL TRAINING
  2012 2013  
(10 main 
Company 
subsidiaries)20131
(all Company 
subsidiaries)2014 2015 2016
Total persons trained 16,990 24,212 42,094 50,939 50,395 52,582
INCLUDING:
managers and specialists 11,090 14,383 25,177 27,381 32,904 33,491
workers 5,900 9,829 16,917 23,558 17,491 19,091
men 10,364 14,769 25,677 31,073 30,741 32,075
women 6,626 9,443 16,417 19,866 19,654 20,507
BY TYPE OF TRAINING:
advanced training 6,625 6,867 11,035 16,940 20,861 22,269
training per occupational 
and industrial safety requirements 10,365 17,345 31,059 33,999 29,534 30,313
BY LOCATION OF TRAINING:
training centres (sites, plants) 5,183 8,673 15,530 17,000 14,767 15,329
at third-party organisations 11,808 15,540 25,565 33,940 35,628 37,253
Total duration of training – hours 685,280 1,010,680 1,651,514 2,054,092 1,927,478 2,289,437
INCLUDING:
managers and specialists 354,880 460,256 805,664 876,192 1,052,928 1,145,836
workers 330,400 550,424 845,850 1,177,900 874,550 1,143,601
men 418,021 616,515 1,007,424 1,252,996 1,175,762 1,396,557
women 267,259 394,165 644,090 801,096 751,716 892,881Nikolay Dolgov
Head of the Gazprom Neft Personnel 
Development and Training OfficeVirtually every company has a personnel training and development programme. 
However, we aren’t simply training people – we are building an educational 
environment that blurs the line between trainers and trainees. It gets all 
managers and employees involved in the training and development process 
while enabling them to dynamically adapt to global changes. The educational 
environment is accessible to each employee and serves as a support 
and catalyst for transformational processes at the Company while promoting 
the spread of best practices.
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
67
www.gazprom-neft.comPROFESSIONAL 
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP IN THE INDUSTRY REQUIRES CONSTANT GROWTH 
IN THE COMPETENCY OF PERSONNEL. THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
OF THE COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES IS BASED ON THE CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 
OF THEIR PROFESSIONAL SKILLS. GAZPROM NEFT REGULARLY CONDUCTS DIAGNOSTICS 
AND SUBSEQUENTLY PLANS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES IN AN EFFORT TO IDENTIFY 
THE NEED FOR TRAINING.
Natalya Kayzer
Head of the Personnel and Organisational Development Office within 
the Gazprom Neft Upstream DivisionAt present, a draft process and document 
forms have been developed to create 
training courses resulting from the Division’s 
intellectual activities. Most of the Professional 
Growth Centre’s internal training courses have 
been registered as the Company’s intangible 
assets. The generation of future economic 
benefits from using the internal courses 
as intangible assets aims to ensure a net cash 
inflow, including increasing income or cost 
savings.DEVELOPMENT OF A PROFESSIONAL 
GROWTH CENTRE
Gazprom Neft has operated a Professional Growth Centre (PGC) within 
the Upstream Division since 2015, a platform for the replication of knowledge 
and technological development of production functions. The Centre’s courses 
are based on case studies from production practice and focus on achieving 
the Company’s strategic goals. More than 75% of the Centre’s internal training 
programme portfolio is approved as intangible assets belonging to the Company.
Teaching at the PGC is handled by 130 internal coaches, including 18 PhD 
candidates and four PhDs. The PGC trained 2,547 people in 2016, an increase 
of 14% compared with 2015.
Vadim Yakovlev
Gazprom Neft First Deputy CEOA modern, large, effective company cannot exist without a model 
for continuously developing the skills of its employees. This is an extremely 
important part of the corporate culture and the key to the Company’s 
successful operations in the future and achieving the strategic goals 
of business. With the opening of a new site, the Professional Growth Centre 
has gained a new impetus for development and Gazprom Neft has ensured 
the transfer of knowledge within the Company and continuous growth 
in the professionalism of its employees.130 
internal coaches
conducted teaching activities 
at the PGC platform in 2016
68
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company continued to establish and improve 
professional skills models in 2016. New skills models 
were developed and introduced in ‘Economics 
and Investment’, ‘Industrial and Occupational 
Safety’ and ‘Information Technologies, Automation 
and Telecommunications’, and the professional skills 
model in ‘HR Management’ was updated. Position 
profiles, menus of developmental actions and career 
maps were established based on a number 
of models.
The Downstream Division developed models 
of professional clusters, i.e. groups of positions that 
are united by their involvement in similar processes 
and require similar skills. A structure, passport, 
professional skills model, position profile, career 
maps, evaluation tests and a menu of development 
actions were prepared for the six cluster models 
(technology, mechanics, energy, marketing, 
commerce and logistics). In an effort to unify the training of internal coaches, a unified standard was 
developed to establish selection criteria and training standards, identify 
approaches to motivation and regulate certification for training programmes. 
In order to meet the growing need for training, the company trained 
118 new internal coaches over the last year.
DEVELOPMENT OF PROJECT SKILLS – 
THE ‘PROMOVEMENT’ PROGRAMME
The Company continues to develop the ‘PROmovement’ three-stage 
system for the development of project skills in exploration and production, 
which was established in 2015. Eighty-one people were trained as part 
of the ‘PROmovement’ during the reporting year, bringing the total number 
of people trained under the programme to more than 1,300.
The ‘PROmovement’ programme received the SKOLKOVO Trend Award 2016. 
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich presented the award 
to Gazprom Neft First Deputy CEO Vadim Yakovlev.
TARGETED DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONNEL 
FOR OFFSHORE FIELD EXPLORATION
The Company began implementing the ‘Shelf Project’ targeted development 
programme for personnel who work in the exploration of offshore fields in 2016. 
The programme includes theoretical online courses, case studies based 
on the experience of international and Russian companies, working sessions, 
sessions to exchange experience with experts and a final business simulation. 
Fifty people underwent training over the last year.
The Company continues to utilise two modular programmes to increase 
the skills level of production personnel for the development of offshore 
fields: ‘Development of the hydrocarbon resources of the continental shelf’ 
and ‘Best practices in the development of offshore fields’, as well as on-site 
training at the offshore production facilities of foreign companies.DEVELOPMENT 
AND IMPROVEMENT 
OF PROFESSIONAL 
SKILLS MODELSTRAINING 
OF INTERNAL COACHES
Anatoly Cherner
Gazprom Neft Deputy CEOWe devote considerable attention 
to the professional development 
of our employees. Modernising production 
and introducing innovative and digital 
technologies create new requirements 
for the qualification of personnel. The 
Company’s rapid development demands 
greater dynamics in personnel development 
and this can be achieved largely through 
an effective and constantly improving training 
system.
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
69
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft devotes special attention to developing professional skills 
competitions and believes such events are a significant tool for enhancing 
the professional competencies of employees. The Company took 
the professional skill competition to a new level in 2016 in terms of content 
and the number of participants. As a result of automating the process of preparing 
for the competition, the Company conducted a mass remote evaluation 
of employees’ professional knowledge involving roughly 5,000 people. 
A business simulation was one of the stages of the competition. Tasks 
involving the provision of first aid to victims were added to the practical part 
of the competition in homage to the Year of Occupational Safety. More than 
1,500 specialists and workers from Gazprom Neft enterprises took part 
in the competitions. The active development and expansion 
of the professional training system has also led 
to the development of the appropriate training 
infrastructure. The Gazprom Neft Corporate 
Resource Training Centre opened on the core 
of Muravlenkovsky Multidisciplinary College 
in 2016. The training centre includes a lecture 
and training hall as well as a training classroom 
equipped with the unique TRANSAS Shore-Based 
6000 Production Simulator. Some 600 people will 
undergo annual training at the training centre.
A modern training centre also opened 
at the Moscow Oil Refinery. The centre’s training 
classrooms feature interactive whiteboards 
and modern equipment to arrange video 
conferences and webinars. Much attention 
was devoted to creating a comfortable training 
environment in the format of business games, 
brainstorming and other elements of active training.
Gazprom Neft Badra opened its own training 
centre based at its oilfield camp. More than 
40 local employees are already undergoing training 
at the facility.PROFESSIONAL SKILLS 
COMPETITIONS DEVELOPMENT 
OF EDUCATIONAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE
A Gazprom Neft team took part in the Russian professional skills 
competition WorldSkills Hi-Tech 2016. Company representatives finished 
in the top five in the nomination ‘Laboratory chemical analysis’, while 
a specialist from the information technologies department took second place 
in the competition.WORLDSKILLS HI-TECH 2016
Sergey Lade
Head of the Gazprom Neft HR Relations and Corporate Functions 
Organisational Development OfficeA landmark event took place for us in 2016: an employee from Information 
Technology Service Company took second place at the Russian professional 
skills competition WorldSkills Hi-Tech. We have always been confident 
in the top-notch skills of our IT specialists. Now we have received confirmation 
of this from an outside competition involving experts from all over the country. 
It should be noted that we sent a young specialist who had previously 
won a corporate contest at ITSC to the competition as a delegate. Such 
competitions help to create an atmosphere for the development of high-
potential employees and motivate them to achieve even greater results.>600 people
can be trained by 
the Gazprom Neft Corporate 
Resource Training Centre per year
70
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016INTRODUCTION OF THE LOMINGER 
COMPETENCY MODEL
In 2016, Gazprom Neft began introducing a new management competencies model 
based on one of the best global practices – the Lominger Leadership Architect® 
competency library. The model, which helps to create a common understanding 
of the contents of management competencies, will be integrated into personnel 
recruitment, evaluation and development processes and the creation of a talent 
pool. More than 20 sessions were held over the last year to profile management 
levels and positions using the new competency model.
REVISION AND EXPANSION OF THE 
CATALOGUE OF MANAGEMENT AND GENERAL 
CORPORATE COMPETENCY PROGRAMMES
The Company expanded the number of management and leadership competency 
development programmes from 11 to 33 during the reporting year. Programmes 
on the following popular themes were added to the portfolio of programmes: 
‘Emotional Intelligence’, ‘Networking’, ‘Management Engagement’, ‘Cross-Cultural 
Communication’ and ‘Change Management’.DEVELOPMENT 
OF MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP SKILLS
MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP SKILLS ARE A KEY TOOL FOR FORMING A CORPORATE 
CULTURE AND THE COMPANY’S TRANSFORMATION. THE CORPORATE UNIVERSITY LAUNCHED 
A MANAGEMENT AND GENERAL CORPORATE COMPETENCIES FACULTY IN AN EFFORT 
TO DEVELOP THESE SKILLS AND CONTINUOUSLY EXCHANGE EXPERIENCE IN THIS AREA.
EXPANSION OF THE ‘BOOST’ 
PERSONNEL INTEGRATION 
PROGRAMME
The ‘Boost’ personnel integration programme, 
which the Downstream Division has employed since 
2015, was further developed during the reporting 
year. ‘Boost’ ensures the comprehensive integration 
of employees into the cultural and professional 
environment in the event of any changes 
to their professional status or role. The programme 
encompasses staff changes and supports 
employees over their entire career path: from hiring 
and promotion to moving to another region 
and undertaking a new role or functionality as well 
as lateral movement. The programme currently 
includes more than 100 tools.
‘TOP DRIVE 2.0’ MANAGER 
TRAINING PROGRAMME
In 2015-2016, the Company implemented 
the ‘Top Drive 2.0’ training programme, which 
aims to improve employees’ skills during 
the reorganisation of the Regional Sales Directorate 
and business units. As part of the reorganisation 
stage, its focus has shifted from general 
organisational issues that are relevant during 
the launch period to the specifics and interests 
of businesses.Gazprom Neft held its first corporate educational forum ‘Educational Environment’ 
in 2016. The forum was attended by more than 150 specialists who are involved 
in personnel training and development and create the educational environment 
at the Company. Best corporate practices and the advanced experience of Russian 
and foreign companies were presented at the forum. A ‘bank of ideas’ was created 
for the educational environment model as part of the forum with more than 
180 ideas collected. The best suggestions were selected from among these ideas 
and will be introduced to training programmes. ‘EDUCATIONAL ENVIRONMENT’ CORPORATE FORUM
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
71
www.gazprom-neft.com‘TERRITORY OF KNOWLEDGE’ 
CORPORATE CONFERENCE
In 2016, Gazprom Neft conducted its first ‘Territory 
of Knowledge’ conference at which speakers included 
experts in knowledge management from a number 
of leading companies: Rosatom, Lukoil and Alfa-Bank. 
Different game formats were used at the conference 
such as quests, business simulations and workshops, 
among other things, which enabled participants 
to immerse themselves in the theme of knowledge 
management and see all the tools used in action. 
The conference was attended by more than 
100 people.KNOWLEDGE 
MANAGEMENT
A KEY TASK IN KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT 
FOR THE COMPANY IS TO INVOLVE 
A BROAD RANGE OF EMPLOYEES 
IN THIS PROCESS, WHICH MAKES IT POSSIBLE 
TO INCREASE THE QUANTITY AND QUALITY 
OF THE COMPANY’S INTELLECTUAL RESOURCES 
AND ENHANCE THE EFFECTIVENESS, SCOPE 
OF DISSEMINATION AND APPLICATION 
OF VALUABLE KNOWLEDGE 
FOR GAZPROM NEFT.DEVELOPMENT OF THE KNOWLEDGE PORTAL
The Company continues to develop the corporate Knowledge and Innovation 
Management System (KIMS). Its key resource is the Knowledge Portal, which 
integrates different tools and formats to store and exchange knowledge. 
The resource is used to inform employees about training and development 
opportunities, help them to plan training and promote an exchange of experience.
The Portal became accessible to subsidiaries and was integrated with HR systems 
over the course of 2016. As of the end of the year, the Portal had approximately 
60,000 users, i.e. almost 100% of Gazprom Neft employees. Roughly 
2,500 employees added information about their expertise to their profiles 
on the Portal, designating themselves as specialists and giving others 
the opportunity to contact them for professional help. Thus, one of the Portal’s 
key functions – forming a community of experts and social training – gained 
momentum over the reporting year.
DEVELOPMENT OF DISTANCE LEARNING
The Company significantly expanded the scale of distance learning 
in the reporting year: the number of courses increased from 70 to 110 
and the coverage expanded from 15,000 to 34,000 people. Approximately 
15,000 employees systematically utilised distance training. To meet the growing 
demand for distance training, a programme was launched in 2016 to train internal 
developers of online courses with 40 experts undergoing training by the end 
of the year. Eight distance learning courses were created and launched through 
their efforts, and several more courses are under development.  
The ‘Expert Wars. Episode I’ competition was held as part of the Knowledge 
Portal that was launched 2015 in the Upstream Division. The competition 
involved teams of experts providing answers to professional questions 
from users. The difficulty and number of replies and the quality of the questions 
were evaluated. The competition aims to support the ‘Ask an Expert’ service, 
expand the Division’s knowledge library and ensure the more effective use 
of expert support within the Upstream Division.ASK AN EXPERT
Oleg Gorbunov
Head of Gazprom Neft Corporate University’s 
Licensing and Subsoil Use FacultyThe ‘Territory of Knowledge’ conference 
was interesting. I really liked the information 
about professional communities. I plan 
to create a community, and the workshops 
helped me to hone what I'm going to create 
in actuality. I fulfilled the practical goal I had set 
when participating in this event.
72
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016REORGANISATION OF THE 
REGULAR PERFORMANCE 
AND POTENTIAL EVALUATION 
PROCESS
Meetings of the Talent Committee – collective 
meetings of management teams – are a key tool 
in selecting candidates for the talent pool. Specialist 
candidates are considered based on the results 
of an annual evaluation of their activities 
and potential. In 2016, the regular performance 
assessment encompassed 14,200 employees, a 50% 
increase from the previous year.  DEVELOPMENT 
OF THE TALENT POOL
GAZPROM NEFT IS DEVELOPING THE ‘SCHOOL – SECONDARY SPECIALISED COLLEGE/
UNIVERSITY – ENTERPRISE’ HUMAN RESOURCES SYSTEM TO PROVIDE THE COMPANY 
WITH HIGHLY SKILLED PERSONNEL IN THE PRESENT AND FUTURE. IT INCLUDES CAREER 
GUIDANCE WORK WITH HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS, TARGETED EDUCATION IN HIGHER 
AND SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND A SYSTEM TO RECRUIT EMPLOYEES 
WITH HIGH POTENTIAL AND PLAN THEIR CAREERS.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE ‘GROWTH’ CAREER 
PLANNING SYSTEM
Gazprom Neft continued to develop the ‘Growth’ career planning system 
and portal with the same name, which enabled each employee to be involved 
in managing their professional and career development. One of the portal’s 
core functions is to collect relevant information about employees’ readiness 
for new professional roles and their mobility. Company employees can use 
the resource to select a career path, undergo an assessment of their skills 
and obtain recommendations for their further development. Gazprom Neft held 
a communications campaign during the reporting year to inform managers 
and their employees about the opportunities and objectives of the planning 
system. More than 700 employees have received an invitation to start working 
in the ‘Growth’ system and 35% of them have chosen a designated role via 
the portal.
Lyudmila Voronina
Head of the Downstream Division’s  
HR Relations OfficeA career means progression. Enhancing professional expertise, participating 
in projects and transitioning to another area of activities are all options 
for successful development. All Gazprom Neft divisions are working 
towards a common business result, that’s why it’s so important to enhance 
the professional level and completeness of each specialist’s personal 
fulfilment. Employees and managers have a mutual responsibility to build 
a system of career planning in which each of them can identify his/her 
targeted professional role and determine the path to this role in accordance 
with the Company’s values.The Company approved 2,020 succession 
candidates for 990 management and functional 
unit positions in 2016. A total of 607 succession 
candidates underwent an assessment 
of their management skills. The percentage 
of vacancies filled by internal candidates 
increased significantly last year. In particular, 
85 succession candidates were appointed to target 
positions in the corporate centre, while another 
60 candidates were promoted.SUCCESSION CANDIDATES 
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
73
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft’s interaction with educational institutions is based on a concept 
that focuses on supporting the Company’s innovative development 
and providing it with a talent pool of specialists who possess key professional 
skills. Under this concept, targeted educational programmes are formed 
based on the Company’s objectives, and Gazprom Neft experts are actively 
involved in organising the educational process. The inclusion of special courses 
in the core curriculum and joint master’s programmes promotes the development 
of the required skills among students and ensures the targeted training of young 
professionals.
The Company currently has a specialised Gazprom Neft department at Gubkin 
Russian State University of Oil and Gas and Omsk State Technical University. 
Students receive targeted training on the basis of corporate master's programmes 
and advanced training programmes jointly with St. Petersburg Mining University, 
the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Peter the Great St. Petersburg 
Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg State University, Tyumen State University 
of Architecture and Civil Engineering and Ufa State Petroleum Technological 
University.
Gazprom Neft and Tyumen State University launched the ‘Oil and Gas Field 
Conceptual Engineering’ master’s programme in 2016. The programme 
is comprised of modules on how to form communicative competencies 
and teamwork skills, use a wide range of information technologies, think critically 
and systematically as well as negotiate. Teachers and experts include scientists 
and specialists from Russian and foreign technology companies as well as leading 
scientific, design, technological and engineering centres of Russia. Career guidance and training programmes for future 
professionals in the early stages of their education 
are an important part of the talent pool formation 
system. To meet this objective, the Company 
develops cooperation with leading industry-based 
universities in the regions where it operates. 
The joint work aims to provide targeted training 
for prospective students and create master’s 
programmes as part of a partnership.WORK WITH STUDENTS, 
GRADUATES AND YOUNG 
PROFESSIONALSORGANISATION 
OF THE EDUCATIONAL PROCESS 
AT EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Valery Falkov
Rector of Tyumen State UniversityOne feature of the new master’s programme being implemented jointly 
with Gazprom Neft is its key technology: teams of graduate students 
carrying out actual engineering projects commissioned by the Company. 
The performance evaluation approach has changed too: the main focus 
is not so much on evaluating knowledge as it is the ability to apply it in actual 
professional activities.‘Gazpromneft Classes’ at secondary schools 
in the regions where the Company operates 
are an essential component of work with young 
people. The ‘Gazpromneft Classes’ programme 
includes subjects that will help students understand 
what the oil and gas industry is all about and which 
main professions are in demand in the industry. 
As part of their studies, students solve tasks 
from the practical daily work of oil workers. 
The training helps students to make a well-informed 
professional choice when it comes time to enter 
university.‘GAZPROMNEFT CLASSES’ PROGRAMME 
HOW THE COMPANY WORKS WITH GRADUATES 
AND YOUNG PROFESSIONALS
RECRUITING GRADUATES FOR SPECIALISED PROFESSIONS 
IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES 
SUPPORT FOR THE ADAPTATION OF YOUNG PROFESSIONALS 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES 
INCLUSION IN THE TALENT POOL 
74
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Gazprom Neft served as a partner for the ‘Future Intellectual Leaders 
of Russia’ National Forum in 2016. Students from specialised ‘Gazprom Neft 
Classes’ in St. Petersburg and Omsk took part in the forum for the first time. 
Young Gazprom Neft specialists served as experts in one of the sessions – 
‘Energy Technology’. They designed case studies based on actual production 
tasks for the participants.
‘THREE FRONTIERS’ YOUNG SPECIALISTS 
ADAPTATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMME
Young specialists who join Gazprom Neft within a year after graduating university 
pass through the three-year ‘Three Frontiers’ adaptation and development 
programme. The programme includes adaptation measures, training sessions 
and work with mentors who undergo special training.
WORK OF YOUNG SPECIALIST COUNCILS 
AT ENTERPRISES
Young specialist councils carry out active work at enterprises. Their key tasks 
include supporting young specialist adaptation and development programmes, 
developing volunteer activities and helping to solve pressing problems faced 
by young specialists during their first years working at the Company. 
GAZPROM NEFT SCIENTIFIC 
AND TECHNOLOGICAL CONFERENCE
Preparation for and participation in a scientific and technological conference that 
aims to develop rationalisation and innovative thinking among young specialists 
and involve them in the Company’s rationalisation activities plays an important 
role in their development. The conference is held in two stages: the winners 
of the selection round conducted within subsidiaries go on to participate 
in the general corporate round. More than 500 works were submitted 
for the conference in 2016, while 105 young specialists presented their work 
during the second stage.Enhancing the Company’s appeal as the best 
employer. The introduction of the value proposition 
into work with employees and external audiences:
 >Training of lower- and middle-level managers 
in non-financial motivation tools;
 >Incorporating the value proposition into 
personnel management processes and regular 
management practices;
 >Launch of a new career portal.
Improving the quality and effectiveness 
of staff recruitment. The further development 
of an operational model for attracting external 
candidates:
 >Increasing the number of subsidiaries that utilise 
the services of interregional and regional staff 
recruitment centres to 18 subsidiaries while 
maintaining recruitment quality and efficiency.
Enhancing the professionalism of Company 
employees. Development of the Corporate 
University:
 >Opening new departments at the Corporate 
University: ‘Licensing and Subsoil Use’, 
‘Commerce’ and ‘Risk Management’, among 
others;
 >Improving the quality of targeted management 
and professional development programmes;
 >Introducing a regular assessment of training 
effectiveness;
 >Supporting the introduction of general corporate 
programmes (for example, the operational 
management system).
Improving the effectiveness of work with personnel. 
Creating a General Service Centre at the Company 
for HR transactional processes:
 >Developing the targeted processes 
and organisational structure of the Centre;
 >Approving the investment budget;
 >Preparing IT infrastructure to launch the Centre;
 >Forming and training the Centre’s team;
 >Preparing to launch pilot projects starting 
in 2018.GOALS FOR 2017‘FUTURE INTELLECTUAL 
LEADERS OF RUSSIA’ 
NATIONAL FORUM
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
75
www.gazprom-neft.comSAFE DEVELOPMENT: 
INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
Industrial and environmental safety is a major priority 
for Gazprom Neft. The Company places the life and health 
of its employees above all else. Any work that threatens 
people’s lives or health must be stopped immediately. 
The Company invests in modernising its oil refining 
assets and enhancing the environmental and industrial 
safety levels of its enterprises.Goal Result
INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
Reduce LTIFR by 10% LTIFR reduced by 14.8% (from 0.472 to 0.402).
Prevent man-made emergencies at production facilities No emergencies occurred in the reporting year.
Reduce equipment-related incidents by 10% Goal partially achieved. The number of incidents decreased 
by 5.06%.
Prevent accidents at hazardous production facilities Goal partially achieved. Two accidents occurred. Investigations 
were conducted and measures were taken to minimise the risk 
of such incidents reoccurring.
Introduce updated regulatory and procedural documents, including standards 
on HSE, OS and CD Introduced: Incident Investigation Standard, Standard for the Safe 
Performance of Work Requiring Enhanced Safety, and Transport 
Safety Standard.
Continue activities by working groups in priority areas to develop industrial safety 
cultureAll roadmap measures implemented in six priority safety culture 
areas.
Participate in the work of special-purpose committees and technical regulatory 
councils of the Federal Environmental, Industrial and Nuclear Supervision Service, 
Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Russian Chamber of Commerce 
and Industry, and Federal Agency for Technical Regulation and MetrologyGoal achieved. Detailed results presented in the ‘Stakeholder 
Engagement’ section of this chapter.
Transition to systematic work in key enhanced safety areas as part of the corporate 
strategy to develop HSE, OS and CD1Transition started. Results presented in the ‘Policy and management’ 
section of this chapter.
Implement action plans to prevent occupational injury and improve working 
conditions as part of the Company’s declared ‘Year of Occupational Safety’ Goal achieved. Results presented in the ‘Industrial and occupational 
safety’ section of this chapter.
Introduce a system to rate contractors on HSE, OS and CD and a corporate database 
of contractorsRating system and database introduced.
Update and start introducing the Basic Safety Rules – corporate safe conduct 
standardsBasic Safety Rules updated and approved. Started studying 
measures to introduce standards as conduct rules for all 
employees.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Start of enterprise certification for compliance with ISO 14001:2015 In 2016, an independent audit was conducted and ISO 14001 
compliance certificates were obtained for the environmental 
management system of Omsk Oil Refinery, Gazpromneft Shipping, 
Gazpromneft-Lubricants, the Omsk Lubricants Plant branch, 
and Gazpromneft-Moscow Lubricants Plant, while Gazpromneft-
Supply and Gazpromneft-Sakhalin were recertified.GOALS 
AND RESULTS IN 2016
1 Here  and hereinafter HSE, OS and CD refers to Health, Safety and the Environment, Occupational Safety and Civil Defence.
78
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Goal Result
Reduce air pollution emissions by 2% Goal for 2016 not achieved. Gross pollutants increased due 
to growth in production volume as well as the construction 
and commissioning of new infrastructure facilities 
for Gazpromneft-Yamal LLC and the East Messoyakha field.
Work to further increase APG utilisation to 95% The APG utilisation level increased by 0.48%. Results presented 
in the ‘Protecting the Atmosphere’ section of this chapter.
Environmental training for more than 1,000 executives and employees Goal achieved.
ENERGY CONSERVATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Implement the 2016 energy conservation and improved energy efficiency 
programmes (plan 125 mn kWh in the Upstream Division)Energy savings for the Upstream Division totalled 433 mn kWh 
(RUB 1.251 bn).
Achieve the planned specific electricity consumption indicators for the Upstream 
Division (29.42 kWh/TJ)Indicator was 28.91 kWh/TJ, which is lower than planned.
Implement the energy conservation and improved energy efficiency programmes 
of the Upstream Division for 2016-2018Goal achieved. Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption 
and Energy Efficiency’ section of this chapter.
Optimise energy purchase costs in the Downstream Division Savings from cost optimisation measures on energy purchases 
totalled RUB 476 mn.
UPSTREAM DIVISION
Use high-efficiency electric centrifugal pump units;
Install frequency-controlled drives for pump equipment; conduct well intervention 
techniques to reduce produced water and inject it into the formation; 
Replace submersible cables with cables that have increased cross-sections; conduct 
pilot testing of the pump equipment with improved performance and efficiency; 
Rebuild/modernise pump units; modernise lighting systems and optimise electric 
heating systemsGoals achieved. Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption 
and Energy Efficiency’ section of this chapter.
Introduce BLDC motors; 
Reduce produced water and inject it into the formation (stop unprofitable wells 
and conduct well intervention techniques);Goals achieved. Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption 
and Energy Efficiency’ section of this chapter.
DOWNSTREAM DIVISION
Improve the energy efficiency of existing power and process units for Downstream 
Division enterprises to execute production plans and ensure the required quality 
of products
Reduce energy losses in utility networks and conserve energy
Draft and introduce a list of energy conservation programme measures and improve 
energy efficiency by identifying their funding sources, technological and economic 
effects, and payback periods to achieve the target energy efficiency values
Improve the organisation and management of energy conservation and improve 
energy efficiency by introducing and developing a Downstream Division Energy 
Management System that meets the requirements of ISO 50001:2011Completed. Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption 
and Energy Efficiency’ section of this chapter.GAZPROM NEFT ACHIEVED ALL THE MAIN GOALS IT SET FOR THE REPORTING YEAR 
PERIOD. THE COMPANY FULLY IMPLEMENTED AN ACTION PROGRAMME IN INDUSTRIAL 
AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY AS WELL AS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SAFETY, INCLUDING 
PROGRAMMES TO MONITOR COMPLIANCE WITH SAFETY STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
Continued on next page
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
79
www.gazprom-neft.comGoal Result
MAIN GOALS OF IMPROVING ENERGY CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT
Introduce and certify energy management for compliance with ISO 50001 
at Gazpromneft-Vostok, the Gazpromneft-Muravlenko branch, Gazpromneft-
Orenburg, the Gazprom Neft Downstream Division Corporate Centre 
and Gazpromneft – Moscow Oil RefineryIn 2016, the Energy Management System was introduced 
and successfully certified at three subsidiaries of the Upstream 
Division. Surveillance audits were conducted at the Upstream 
Division Corporate Centre and two subsidiaries and no 
discrepancies were found. The existing certificates cover 
all Upstream Division subsidiaries.
In 2016, the Downstream Division Unified Energy Management 
System, which links the Unit’s upper (corporate centre) 
and lower (key subsidiaries) levels of energy conservation 
and energy efficiency management, was completed and certified 
with ISO 50001. The Energy Management System was also 
introduced and certified at Gazpromneft – Moscow Oil 
Refinery. The results of the certification audits confirmed that 
the approaches built into the Unified EMS of the Downstream 
Division are correct and optimal, and that the system is highly 
efficient.
Key areas for the further improvement of energy conservation 
and improved energy efficiency management processes 
at the Downstream Division were approved by the Gazprom Neft 
Board of Directors.
Develop an Organisational Action Plan to introduce the EMS at all Upstream 
Division subsidiariesA comprehensive programme to promote energy conservation 
and improve the energy efficiency of the Upstream Division was 
implemented and recognised with a certificate from the Russian 
Ministry of Energy at an international competition.
Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption and Energy 
Efficiency’ section of this chapter.
Organise employee training on the energy management system and improve 
the qualification level of the unit’s chief power engineers
Draft corporate standards and methods in energy conservation and energy efficiency
Exchange experience with oil companies and hold meetings on energy efficiency 
between Gazprom Neft enterprises and other oil companiesCompleted. Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption 
and Energy Efficiency’ section of this chapter.
MAIN GOALS OF IMPROVING POWER SUPPLY RELIABILITY
Further modernise and develop energy infrastructure Completed. Results presented in the ‘Energy Consumption 
and Energy Efficiency’ section of this chapter.
Introduce and develop automation tools for the operational management of power 
supply systems at subsidiariesIn 2016, the Upstream Division introduced the ADCS at SS 35/6 
kV, Shinginskaya GTPP and GCS Nizhneluginetskaya, West-
Luginetskaya (Gazpromneft-Vostok), SS 35/6 kV Razvedochnaya 
and ZRU-10 kV OGTU (Gazpromneft-Orenburg).
Introduce modern diagnostic tools At Gazpromneft-Khantos, the company GEOSCAN conducted 
aerial photography of high-voltage power transmission lines using 
drones, which produced: an orthophotomap, 3D model of power 
transmission lines and tables of dimensions. The decision was 
made to conduct pilot testing by drones (aircraft and helicopter 
types) for routine surveys in 2017.
Implement the comprehensive Programme for Improved Power Supply Reliability 
to Downstream Division Oil Refining Enterprises for 2016-2018The programme’s organisational and technical action plan 
for 2016 was fully implemented. At the end of 2016, the total 
number of electrical equipment failures was down by 15% 
compared with 2015. The total number of unscheduled hours 
of downtime due to failures in the power supply system was 10% 
below the threshold planned for 2018.
80
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GAZPROM NEFT’S STRATEGY IN HSE AND OS AIMS 
TO ACHIEVE THE ‘GOAL – ZERO: NO HARM TO PEOPLE, OBJECTS 
OR THE ENVIRONMENT’. THE COMPANY IS COMMITTED 
TO BECOMING ONE OF THE WORLD’S LEADING OIL AND GAS 
COMPANIES IN THIS AREA. 
The ‘Safety and a Green Focus’ value has been included in the range of corporate 
values reflected in the Gazprom Neft Corporate Conduct Code.
An HSE, OS and CD Committee began functioning under the Management Board 
during the reporting year under the leadership of Gazprom Neft Management 
Board Chairman Alexander Dyukov. The Committee reviews the results 
of the safety and health strategy, investigates incidents and accidents, 
and discusses best safety practices. The Committee’s work is synchronised 
with the Gazprom Neft operational management system (OMS). The Committee 
met four times in 2016.
A joint OMS and industrial safety committee comprised of Management Board 
members, the directors of production units and department heads will start 
functioning at the Company in 2017. HSE, OS and CD committees have also been 
established in each division and at subsidiaries.POLICY 
AND MANAGEMENT
In 2016, the Company continued implementing 
a project it launched in 2015 to improve industrial 
safety culture. The HSE, OS and CD Committee 
under the Gazprom Neft Management Board 
updated corporate strategy provisions in this area 
as well as plans for initiatives in six priority areas 
of the strategy.
PRIORITY AREAS OF THE HSE, OS AND CD STRATEGY
Leadership and culture Main aspects of safe conduct and the leading role of all levels of executives in achieving this goal
Contractor management Improving the effective management of contractors in safety matters
Asset reliability Ensuring the safe operation of existing assets and their reconstruction as well as the safe design 
and construction of new facilities
Risk management Further integration of HSE, OS and CD risks and environmental aspects in the Company’s overall 
risk management system and developing risk management and assessment skills among 
personnel
Transport safety Ensuring the accident-free operation of all types of transport at the Company
Organisational model Supporting all work by developing HSE, OS and CD functions as well as the functions and relevant 
skills of employeesAlexander Dyukov
Chairman of the Gazprom Neft 
Management BoardIn order to achieve the strategic goals, all 
of us – employees, contractors and partners – 
need to work responsibly and safely. This 
is why the Management Board decided 
to incorporate the ‘Safety and a Green Focus’ 
value into the Corporate Conduct Code. 
I expect that our shared vision in this area will 
enable Gazprom Neft to become the safest 
company in the industry.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
81
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company’s activities in HSE, OS 
and CD are governed by the legal requirements 
of the Russian Federation as well as international 
and corporate standards in this area.
The fundamental corporate document that 
describes the principles of the Company’s 
activities and obligations is the General 
Corporate Policy on Industrial, Fire, Transport, 
Environmental and Occupational Safety 
and Civil Protection. It is in effect at all subsidiaries 
and describes the unity of their strategic goals, 
obligations and responsibilities in HSE, OS 
and CD. This document is used as the basis 
for the operation and improvement of the HSE, 
OS and CD Management System, which meets 
the requirements of OHSAS 18001: 2007 
and ISO 14001: 2015.
Gazprom Neft continued reorganising the HSE, OS 
and CD Management System in 2016 in an effort 
to harmonise it with the best management practices 
in this fiel d. A new HSE, OS and CD structure 
was formed within the Offshore Project 
Development Unit.HSE, OS AND CD 
POLICY
The Policy on Industrial, Fire, Transport, Environmental 
and Occupational Safety and Civil Protection  is posed 
on the gazprom-neft. com  websiteORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OF HSE, OS AND CD MANAGEMENT
COMPANY MANAGEMENT BOARD
HSE, OS AND CD COMMITTEE
HSE, OS AND CD SERVICES 
OF SUBSIDIARIESINDUSTRIAL SAFETY DEPARTMENT 
OF THE CORPORATE CENTRE 
HSE, OS AND CD DEPARTMENT 
OF THE UPSTREAM DIVISION
HSE, OS AND CD DEPARTMENT 
OF THE DOWNSTREAM DIVISION
HSE, OS AND CD OFFICE OF THE OFFSHORE 
PROJECTS DEVELOPMENT UNITReview  of the results of the HSE, OS and CD 
strategy’s implementation
Operating  activities in matters concerning HSE, 
OS and CDIdentifying  the policies, strategies and goals 
of HSE, OS and CD activities
General  management and monitoring 
of the HSE, OS and CD system at the Company
Interaction  with third parties in matters 
concerning HSE, OS and CD
Identifying  priority areas of development 
Monitoring  HSE, OS and CD activities 
at subsidiaries
Performing  operational tasks 
 
82
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company constantly develops its employee 
training system in HSE, OS and CD and regards 
it as the foundation for the establishment of a safety 
culture at Gazprom Neft. Personnel training 
is systematic and standardised and is closely linked 
with other components of the management system.  
Industrial safety was spun off into a separate 
part of the Gazprom Neft Corporate University 
in 2016. Training is conducted on different 
aspects of industrial safety compliance at two 
departments of the Industrial Safety and Efficiency 
Faculty. Various training formats ranging 
from courses to master classes and webinars 
are utilised in an effort to improve effectiveness. 
Gazprom Neft internal trainers develop 
the programme content for the Industrial Safety 
and Efficiency Faculty. The Company plans to launch 
a training and certification system for trainers 
as well as a campaign to promote their status 
in the near future.SAFETY 
CULTURE
The Company’s exchange of experience in matter 
concerning HSE, OS and CD with third-party 
organisations plays a vital role in the training 
system and development of a safety culture. 
In 2016, Gazprom Neft for the seventh time 
organised an environmental conference that was 
attended by more than one hundred Company 
employees and department heads from the central 
office of the Federal Service for Natural Resource 
Usage Oversight and the Federal Service 
for Surveillance on Consumer Rights Protection 
and Human Wellbeing. The conference participants 
discussed problematic issues in legislation 
and amendments that are being introduced, 
new approaches to regulating the human impact 
on the environment and prospects for cleaning 
up existing environmental damage. The event 
created additional skills in environmental protection 
technologies and management procedures amidst 
changing environmental protection legislation.EMPLOYEE TRAINING IN HSE AND OS  
(employees)
Source: Company data
A sociological survey conducted among employees 
in 2016 showed that most of them recognise 
the importance of safe conduct in their work. Ninety 
percent of those polled regard the Company’s new 
‘Safety and a Green Focus’ value as a key factor 
at production assetsSAFETY AND CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT2012 2013 
3,587 7,046 1,7195,391 8,776 1,9133,901 8,807 1,3063,852 6,620 1,1956,610 6,231 1,132
OS training ES training2014 2015 2016
12,352 16,080 14,014 11,667 13,973
IS trainingThe Company’s 
exchange 
of experience 
in matter 
concerning HSE, OS 
and CD with third-
party organisations 
plays a vital role 
in the training system 
and development 
of a safety culture.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
83
www.gazprom-neft.comTHE COMPANY’S HSE, OS AND CD REQUIREMENTS APPLY 
TO GAZPROM NEFT’S CONTRACTORS. WHEN SELECTING 
CONTRACTORS, THE COMPANY TAKES INTO CONSIDERATION 
THEIR COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE SAFETY STANDARDS.
The Company introduced the ‘Steps’ programme in 2015, which aims to utilise 
this approach during all stages of cooperation.
An essential component of the programme is to improve the level of motivation, 
competency and awareness among the personnel of counterparties. Contractors 
are part of the corporate HSE, OS and CD training system. The heads of contractor 
organisations must undergo cascade training without which they are not allowed 
to manage work at the Company’s facilities. Gazprom Neft organises specialised 
forums for key counterparties.
Gazprom Neft introduced a system in 2016 to rate contractors based on HSE, OS 
and CD along with a corporate database of contractor organisations as part of its 
‘Steps’ programme. The rating system covers 100% of the Company’s contractors. 
When selecting candidates and extending contracts, the system helps to fully take 
into account compliance with HSE, OS and CD requirements and avoid contractors 
on the database’s ‘black list’. The rating is also a tool used to provide financial 
and non-financial motivation for counterparties. Such tools were introduced 
at a number of the Company’s subsidiaries during the reporting year. In particular, 
at the start of the year Messoyakhaneftegaz selected the best contractors 
involved in major construction work at the Messoyakha project in 2015. SUPPLY CHAIN 
RESPONSIBILITY
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ‘STEPS’ PROGRAMME
Stage Activity
Preparations for contractual relations Evaluate candidates in accordance with pre-qualification and qualification requirements, 
conclude agreements to the HSE, OS and CD contract with counterparties, establish key 
performance indicators and assess the contractor’s resources that will be used to meet industrial 
safety requirements with their documentation.
Contractor performance management Monitor the activities and performance of contractual terms and verify equipment, machinery 
and people’s skills.
Evaluation of work Rating: analyse the contractor’s effectiveness in HSE and OS with the ability to search for and take 
into account cooperation history and conduct a comparison of counterparties. The evaluation 
serves as the basis for extending contracts and engaging in proactive work with contractors that 
show poor results.Alexander Dyukov
Chairman of the Gazprom Neft 
Management BoardWe believe that safety is not an area where 
people can be divided into ‘us’ and ‘them’ 
or customers and contractors. I have 
no doubt that joint work with partners 
and the introduction of unified industrial 
safety principles will lead to the formation 
of a common culture in which people’s lives 
and health are the highest value.
Alexander Samoded
CEO of PremierStroyDesign, the top rated contractor 
in the Messoyakha projectI perfectly understand the customer’s 
focus on safety and believe that meeting 
these requirements is a sure-fire indicator 
of an enterprise’s sustainability. The secret 
to our success is the hourly control 
of employees and leadership among 
executives on this issue.
84
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company actively engages with personnel in establishing safe 
working conditions. In 2016, occupational safety ombudsmen were hired 
at Messoyakhaneftegaz. Their job includes interacting with the employer 
on major occupational safety problems faced by oilfield employees, discussing 
the provision of personal protective gear, the procedure and amount of benefits 
and allowances for harmful working conditions as well as participation in drafting 
collective bargaining agreements. In addition, the company employs 38 internal 
trainers whose job is to promote compliance with occupational safety standards 
among their colleagues and contractors. The trainers underwent specialised 
training in 2016. 
To support the environmental culture at Gazprom Neft, specialised forums 
and seminars are held at which the Company’s environmental experts discuss 
the best practices needed to form an environmental culture at the Company: 
enhancing the level of involvement and initiative by employees, meeting 
environmental requirements and developing environmental safety skills among 
production unit employees, among other things.
Gazprom Neft holds clean-up and planting events each year in an effort 
to improve the environmental culture at the Company. In 2016, 120 events were 
held during which some 4,000 tonnes of garbage were collected and more than 
7,000 trees, shrubs and flower beds were planted. The Company also conducted 
approximately 40 environmental education events for employees and local 
communities in 2016.STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
ENGAGEMENT WITH A BROAD RANGE OF STAKEHOLDERS 
ENABLES THE COMPANY TO ALIGN ITS INDUSTRIAL SAFETY 
AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACTIVITIES AS EFFECTIVELY 
AS POSSIBLE.
EMPLOYEES120  events
to clean and landscape areas  
held in 2016
4,000  t
of trash collected
7,000
trees, bushes and flower  
beds planted
Ayrat Kurmanayev
Occupational Safety Ombudsman and Oil, Gas 
and Condensate Production Foreman at MessoyakhaneftegazSafe working conditions have always 
been and remain one of the key goals 
at the company. I strive for engagement 
with production field workers to maximise 
their benefits. I see my mission as protecting 
the right to safe work and improving working 
conditions in the workplace.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
85
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft is involved in work to improve existing industrial 
safety and environmental protection legislation and to draft new bills 
as part of its interaction with the legislative and executive government 
authorities and its work in the Russian Union of Industrialists 
and Entrepreneurs. Gazprom Neft CEO Alexander Dyukov and Industrial Safety 
Department Head Oleg Nikolayenko are members of the Industrial Safety 
Committee of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
In 2016, the Company was actively involved in fine tuning more than 30 bills 
such as the Federal Law ‘On Environmental Protection’, the Federal Law 
‘On the Protection of Atmospheric Air’, the Government Resolution ‘On the 
Approval of the Work Procedure for Eliminating Accumulated Environmental 
Damage’ and the draft departmental act ‘On the Approval of the Procedure 
for Submitting a Declaration on Payment for Negative Environmental Impact’, 
among others.
As part of its work on the RUIE Industrial Safety Committee in 2016, the Company 
submitted proposals to update and prepare expert conclusions and amendments 
to 37 draft federal laws and bylaws as well as proposals on 43 draft regulatory 
legal acts concerning environmental safety.
The Company’s environmental protection goals are part of socioeconomic 
agreements that Gazprom Neft signs with a number of regions in which 
it operates. In 2016, such agreements were in effect with the government 
authorities of the Tyumen Region as well as the Khanty-Mansi and Yamalo-Nenets 
Autonomous Districts.
Gazprom Neft is actively working to develop manuals of the best available 
technologies (BAT) as part of Federal Law No. 219-FZ ‘On Amendments to Federal 
Law ‘On Environmental Protection’ and Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian 
Federation’. A technical working group in charge of drafting the BAT manuals 
has currently drafted and approved the manuals: ‘Wastewater Treatment 
for the Manufacturing of Products (Goods), Performance of Work and Rendering 
of Services at Major Enterprises’ and ‘Thermal Waste Neutralisation (Waste 
Incineration)’.GOVERNMENT
The annual Gazprom Neft Environmental 
Conference allows for a continued dialogue 
with the government authorities. At the seventh 
conference, which took place in December 
2016, specialists had the opportunity to hear 
reports from representatives of the Ministry 
of Natural Resources, Ministry of Construction 
and the Federal Service for Natural Resource Usage 
Oversight. The conference participants discussed 
problematic aspects of existing environmental 
legislation and new approaches to regulating 
the human impact on the environment, prospects 
for cleaning up accumulated environmental damage 
as well as global changes in environmental safety 
legislation as a whole. The ‘Rules for the Industrial Safety of Oil 
and Petroleum Product Warehouses’ were drafted 
and approved at the initiative and with the direct 
involvement of Gazprom Neft in 2016.FEDERAL STANDARDS AND RULES
86
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company develops environmental programmes 
and introduces new technologies in cooperation 
with scientific institutions and non-governmental 
organisations. In particular, Gazprom Neft is drafting 
and implementing biodiversity conservation 
programmes jointly with the Severtsov Institute 
of Ecology and Evolution.
Gazprom Neft cooperated with the Sysin Research 
Institute of Human Ecology and Environmental 
Health over the last year to develop unified pollutant 
standards to be used by industrial enterprises 
throughout Russia.Gazprom Neft actively exchanges experience with leading companies in the industry. 
In 2016, Gazprom Neft hosted a two-day conference called ‘Conscious Safety’ as part 
of the All-Russian Occupational Safety Week. The conference was attended by more 
than 120 employees with HSE, OS and CD functions as well as representatives 
of Shell, Surgutneftegas, Bashneft and NOVATEK, among others.The Company holds public hearings on draft 
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) when 
developing new projects. At the hearings, 
Gazprom Neft informs stakeholders 
about the proposed activities and their possible 
environmental impact and provides access 
to the documents that are being drafted. 
The Company then adjusts the project documentation 
based on any suggestions or comments. In 2016, 
public discussions were held and approval was 
secured for 40 Gazprom Neft projects, including 
the modernisation of the Prirazlomnaya offshore ice-
resistant fixed platform, the construction of additional 
wells at the Vygapurovskoye field of Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegaz and the construction 
of well clusters at the Novoportovskoye oil 
and gas condensate field of Gazpromneft-Yamal, 
among others. The hearings were attended 
by representatives of the indigenous peoples 
of the Far North, local residents and municipal 
administration officials.
EXPERT COMMUNITY 
AND NGOSPARTNERS AND OTHER ENTERPRISES 
IN THE INDUSTRYLOCAL 
COMMUNITIES
In 2016, RIA Novosti launched a special project with Gazprom Neft’s support 
called ‘Ecology of a Megalopolis’, which was established jointly with the Moscow 
Department of Nature Management and Environmental Protection. The project 
raises awareness about the primary factors impacting the environment in major 
cities, the main sources of air pollution in Moscow and measures that are being 
taken to improve the city’s environmental condition.ECOLOGY OF A MEGALOPOLIS
During the reporting year, Gazprom Neft implemented the online 
project ‘Muscovites Coming Clean’ – a test for Moscow region residents 
who are interested in environmental issues. The test at the website 
moskvalogiya.ru  enables users to assess their level of environmental 
responsibility and also learn about environmentally friendly initiatives 
at the Moscow Oil Refinery and in the region. People who take the test 
can then share the results on social media and also invite new participants 
to take the test.Anton Kulbachevsky
Director of the Moscow Department of Nature Management and Environmental ProtectionGazprom Neft is involved in work to improve the capital’s environment 
in a number of ways: it is modernising the Moscow Oil Refinery, implementing 
volunteer projects to make the city greener and developing an automated 
system to monitor industry’s environmental impact jointly with the Moscow 
government. We can only applaud Gazprom Neft’s support of the information 
project on the city’s environmental issues.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
87
www.gazprom-neft.comTHE COMPANY’S LONG-TERM STRATEGY IN INDUSTRIAL 
AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AIMS TO ACHIEVE THE ‘GOAL – ZERO’ 
BY INTRODUCING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTION 
CONTROL AND DEVELOPING A SAFETY CULTURE.
Improving the industrial safety management system is one of Gazprom Neft’s 
most important priorities. The Company strives to continuously improve 
industrial safety levels, performs comprehensive work to minimise the rate 
of equipment failure and industrial injury, and also introduces best practices 
and advanced technologies in this area.  
The Company’s main programmes to improve industrial and occupational safety 
levels include:
 >an expert assessment of equipment safety and harmonising production 
facilities with the requirements of industrial safety standards and rules;
 >the modernisation of emergency shutdown systems;
 >the prevention and management of emergency situations;
 >monitoring compliance with industrial safety requirements;
 >ensuring safe work conditions and organising work stations that meet 
government and corporate standards;
 >providing employees with personal protective gear;
 >measures to protect workers’ health;
 >comprehensive training of company employees in HSE, OS and CD;
 >studying and introducing advanced technologies in this area.INDUSTRIAL 
AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
MAIN RISKS IN INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND MEASURES TO MINIMISE THEM
Risk Preventive measures
Equipment failure  >Expert assessment of equipment, timely repairs and modernisation of production facilities
Violation of rules for organising high 
risk work >Training employees in organising work and industrial safety 
 >Monitoring compliance with work organisation requirements
 >Developing a culture of safe conduct
Violations of legislative requirements 
and safety rules by contractors >Inclusion of requirements on compliance with Russian and corporate industrial and occupational safety in 
agreements with contractors
 >Production control 
 >Monitoring and assessment of work efficiency by suppliers in this sphere when performing contractual 
obligations
 >Involvement of suppliers in the Company’s activities to improve safety cultureNUMBER OF INCIDENTS AT HAZARDOUS 
PRODUCTION FACILITIES  (сases)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 2,385
3,5663,2992,8762,512
NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS AT HAZARDOUS 
PRODUCTION FACILITIES  (сases)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 2
2001
When incidents occur, the Company conducts 
investigations and then develops and introduces 
an action plan that minimises the risk of the incident 
reoccurring. All the Company’s subsidiaries 
carry out preventive measures in accordance 
with the action plans.
88
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016When developing plans for industrial and occupational safety programmes, 
the Company relies on a map of HSE, OS and CD risks that are regularly updated.
Industrial and occupational safety risk assessment is regulated 
by the Gazprom Neft Standard and is part of the Company’s integrated risk 
management system. The Company uses the advanced international methods 
HAZID/ENVID, HAZOP , Bow-Tie and PHSER to assess man-made risks during 
the facility design, construction, operation and liquidation stages. The methods 
used to assess professional risks aim to ensure that employees do not start 
work without confidence in its safe performance.
In 2016, the Company continued introducing new risk assessment techniques 
and new production control methods in accordance with these techniques. 
The Company introduced the ‘Five Steps’ professional risk assessment algorithm, 
which enables employees to take a responsible approach to the performance 
of production activities and tentatively assess their risks. The assessment 
is made based on the following key areas: movement, height, pressure, electricity, 
combustion, toxicity, temperature and personnel.
A new type of production control that was introduced in 2015 – a leadership 
behavioural safety audit – gained traction during the reporting year. It consists 
of a manager observing an employee’s work and then holding a discussion 
about safe or hazardous behavioural strategies. This approach helps to establish 
the proper behavioural model for the employee, correct dangerous behaviour 
and also identify why work is performed in violation of safety rules and assess 
the effectiveness of industrial and occupational safety activities. The audit 
results are analysed and based on the results a list of actions is prepared 
for the subsidiary which must be performed to improve safety at this enterprise.Aydar Sarvarov
Director of the SACS (Security Activities Control System) 
Introduction Programme of the Upstream DivisionEfficiency and ease of perception are the main 
criteria for selecting safe conduct training 
techniques. The ‘Five Steps’ risk assessment 
meets this criteria. The algorithm helps 
a person to approach any work in the most 
deliberate and responsible way possible 
and not start it without being certain that 
it will be performed in a safe manner.Gazpromneft-Logistics introduced virtual training during the reporting year. 
Using virtual reality glasses, employees find themselves on a ‘real’ scaffold 
where they learn about the intended purpose of certain equipment whose 
functions are displayed on pop-up windows. As the users look around, 
a diagram of the equipment, a work description, sources of high risk as well 
as a simulation of emergency and accident situations all appear right next 
to the equipment.VIRTUAL TRAINING NUMBER OF INJURIES IN WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS 
(people)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 38
47334341
NUMBER OF DEATHS IN WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS  
(people)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 3
3122
LTIFR INJURY RATE
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 0.40
0.650.440.520.47
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
89
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company spent more than RUB 41.704 billion on HSE, OS and CD measures 
in 2016 (excluding joint and foreign assets).1
The work carried out in 2016 resulted in a reduction in the number of incidents 
at the Company’s production facilities and a further decline in the LTIFR. However, 
to the Company’s deepest regret, fatal accidents in the workplace were not fully 
eliminated. The Company deeply mourns this fact and is doing everything 
it can to prevent such tragedies from reoccurring. Special commissions formed 
to investigate each incident conducted a detailed analysis of each accident, 
identified their causes and took action to minimise the risk of such incidents 
reoccurring. The results of the investigations were reviewed at meetings 
of the HSE, OS and CD Committee.
The Gazprom Neft transport safety programme 
includes production control, safe driving training, 
on-the-job training and instructions on safety issues 
and monthly ‘Stopwatches’, or meetings on HSE, OS 
and CD issues.
In 2016, the Company began employing project 
teams whose job is to improve safety in priority 
areas for Gazprom Neft such as air, water and motor 
transport. A development roadmap through the end 
of 2019 has been created for each area.TRANSPORT 
AND FIRE 
SAFETY
1 The  significant increase in HSE, OS and CD expenses is due to the implementation of a project to improve 
safe conduct culture at the Company.Andrey Patrushev
Deputy CEO of the Offshore Project  
Development DivisionWe consulted with airlines when drafting 
the safe air transport strategy. Gazprom Neft 
will start introducing the most effective 
practices selected from these sessions during 
its 2018 contracting campaign.
Gazpromneft-Transport installed special equipment 
designed to improve traffic safety on all its petrol 
tankers. An electronic speed restriction programme 
was connected to sensors mounted on vehicle 
pedals. Once the maximum allowed speed 
is reached, the flow of air and fuel to the engine 
is restricted and the petrol tanker cannot go any 
faster. The driver also hears a warning signal 
indicating that the tanker has reached its maximum 
speed.ROAD SAFETYAnatoly Cherner
Gazprom Neft Deputy CEO  
of the Downstream DivisionWe won’t achieve ‘Goal – Zero’ unless each of us makes safety an important 
part of our daily work. We must be the bearers of the safety culture 
and encourage our subordinates to have maximum engagement, meet safety 
requirements and demand their execution from others.
During work on a compressor at the Moscow Oil Refinery, there was an explosion 
of hydrogen-containing gas when a cylinder flange ruptured, which resulted 
in the death of one employee. To prevent such incidents in the future, 
the Company implemented preventive measures, including changes to the system 
for production control, equipment repair and the designation and access 
of personnel, updating the production, job and occupational safety descriptions 
based on an investigation and introducing a system to stop hazardous work.
In Kyrgyzstan, an accident occurred when a driver was repairing a vehicle. 
To prevent similar situations in the future, the Company conducted an audit 
of all repair areas, banned repairs in service pits and conducted a risk 
assessment for mechanical work. In the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District-
Yugra, a contractor’s driver was killed in a car accident. The investigation 
resulted in quarterly checks being instituted to test the traffic safety knowledge 
of contractors’ drivers and additional training being conducted as part 
of a ‘Defensive Driving’ programme.In 2016, Messoyakhaneftegaz established a geotechnical monitoring 
division, which is an analytical unit that aims to assess and forecast risks 
in the construction and operation of administrative facilities and oilfield 
infrastructure on frozen soil.GEOTECHNICAL MONITORING 
90
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The ‘Air Transport Safety’ project team started 
working on creating and introducing an air transport 
standard consistent with international practices. 
In 2016, the team drafted documents governing 
requirements for aviation contractors, aircraft, 
airline personnel training and the infrastructure 
of arrival/departure points in an effort to organise 
such activities.
In ‘Water Transport Safety’ the Company 
conducted an analysis of business processes 
used to support water transportation jointly 
with the Russian Maritime Register and came 
up with recommendations to optimise them. 
Qualification requirements were also drafted in fire 
and occupational safety for employees, contractors 
and charterers. The Company inspected vessels 
based on these requirements and organised training 
for crews.  
Gazprom Neft’s work to improve motor 
transport safety focused on several areas 
and covered the entire perimeter of operations: 
from developing a transport strategy and unified 
requirements for drivers and transport vehicles 
to analysing the data of on-board monitoring 
systems and training the Company’s personnel 
and contractors.
Gazprom Neft is working to standardise fire safety 
control systems, introduce requirements for the fire 
protection of facilities and implement fire safety 
programmes. EMERGENCY 
MANAGEMENT 
RESPONSE
In an effort to ensure civil defence, the Company 
is improving the sustainability of its production 
facilities when emergencies arise and training 
employees in actions to take in the event 
of emergencies, including work in challenging climatic 
conditions. The Company held over 600 exercises 
and training sessions involving more than 
7,000 people during the reporting year. More than 
41,000 employees received workplace training 
on actions to take in the event of emergencies.
Gazpromneft-Yamal conducted comprehensive 
exercises for the first time in winter at the Arctic 
terminal near the Cape of Kamenny on the Yamal 
Peninsula. The event featured teams using 
emergency equipment to contain and mitigate 
the results of an emergency situation involving 
a simulated oil spill from a sea-based tanker. 
The exercises involved the unique Baltika 
icebreaker, which was designed to handle oil spills 
and conduct rescue operations. The vessel has 
an asymmetric hull and is equipped with three 
engines that enable it to move in any direction. 
This is advantageous when collecting oily surface 
waters and also when working in icy conditions.СOMPREHENSIVE EXERCISES
>41,000
employees
trained in workplace 
emergency actions in 2016
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
91
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company is implementing a long-term disease prevention strategy as part 
of which personnel regularly undergo medical check-ups, clinical examinations 
and vaccinations, training on first aid methods and other measures. Gazprom Neft 
holds ‘Health Days’ each year during which employees can receive an express 
analysis and diagnosis of their condition along with consultations on how 
to provide paramedical first aid.
During the reporting year, the Upstream Division modified its approach 
to emergency response processes and expert examinations concerning 
occupational fitness. Under the new approach, the provision of emergency 
medical response resources must be consistent with the risk assessment 
of the life and health of employees. The assessment takes into account the work 
and living conditions as well as the climatic and geographic factors of each 
facility. The occupational fitness exam is structured so as to reliably determine 
an employee’s ability to safely perform work and includes a mandatory risk 
assessment of cardiovascular disease based on the medical examination results.
Upstream Division subsidiaries have now established a system of pre-shift 
medical check-ups using Electronic Medical Examination System (EMES) 
equipment, transferred pre-flight medical check-ups to the shift assembly location 
and use mobile teams to conduct daily selective testing of people who violate 
anti-alcohol or anti-drug policies.
Gazprom Neft declared 2016 the ‘Year of Occupational Safety’ and conducted 
the following key events:
 >communication sessions for ‘Top-1000’ executives involving 2,000 people; 
 >‘Direct Dialogue’ communications sessions attended by 60,000 employees 
of the Company and its contractors. The dialogues involved practical group 
work with an analysis of accidents and a discussion of the safety culture level;
 >an Industrial Safety Department was opened at the Corporate University;
 >more than 600 executives underwent training in leadership behavioural audit 
methodology;
 >an information campaign was conducted to prevent falls at all subsidiaries;
 >more than 1,300 injury prevention measures were carried out at subsidiaries;
 >four Safety Culture Conferences were held;
 >an Industrial Safety Contest was launched.The Company’s activities in occupational health 
and safety during the reporting year were publicly 
recognised. Gazprom Neft received a number 
of prestigious awards during the Russian 
Occupational Safety Week in Sochi from 19-22 April. 
The ‘Occupational Safety in the Office’ online 
training course in 2016 took first place and earned 
a gold medal in the ‘Health and Safety-2015’ contest 
(in the nomination ‘Development and introduction 
of innovative systems and methods for training 
specialists in occupational safety’).OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
AND SAFETY
Oleg Nikolayenko
Head of the Gazprom Neft Industrial 
Safety DepartmentWe strived to use innovative methods when 
creating the ‘Occupational Safety in the Office’ 
interactive course. The online court is built 
on real-world examples and links theory 
with daily activities. This marks the first 
time a course with such content and format 
has been developed and introduced 
in Russian practice.
The Gazpromneft-Shelf project ‘Development 
and introduction of technologies for the safe 
washing, cleaning and degassing of oil storage 
tanks for offshore oil and gas gravity-based 
structures’ won first place and a gold medal 
at the ‘Health and Safety-2015’ contest 
(in the nomination ‘Safe working conditions 
monitoring and support methodology’).
92
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS 
THE ENVIRONMENT IS A STRATEGIC 
PRIORITY FOR GAZPROM NEFT. 
THE COMPANY IS AWARE 
OF ITS RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY 
IN THIS REGARD AND OBJECTIVELY 
ASSESSES AND SEEKS TO MINIMISE 
ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS WHILE INCREASING 
INVESTMENT IN ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROGRAMMES.MITIGATING 
NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 
AND THE EFFECTIVE USE OF RESOURCES
EXPENSES ON ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES AND ENSURING ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY AND PROTECTION1 (RUB mn)2
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Total, including: 4,431.0 6,162.2 6,159.7 6,377.6 6,875.6
protecting the atmosphere 966.1 1,017.1 1,464.3 665.5 496.3
wastewater collection and treatment 2,041.2 2,163.5 1,834.3 2,430.3 2,720.6
waste management 708.1 775.4 753.7 1,538.9 1,363.8
protection and rehabilitation of land, surface water and 
groundwater 687.9 2,169.1 1,312.4 1,434.5 1,461.7
environmental radiation protection and environmental 
protection against noise, vibration and other types of 
physical impacts 1.6 3.1 23.8 6.2 1.9
biodiversity conservation and protection of natural areas 0.9 0.6 16.3 89.7 51.6
research and development to reduce negative 
environmental impacts 10.0 16.2 42.2 9.8 7.9
other environmental protection activities 15.2 17.2 712.7 202.7 771.8
1 Note:  The Report presents updated statistics on environmental safety costs that take into account the total current costs for all environmental protection activities and expenses 
on environmental services in accordance with the state statistical reporting 4-OS ‘Information on the current costs of environmental protection and environmental payments ’. 
The new form was approved by Order No. 387 of the Federal State Statistics Service dated 4 August 2016.
2 Excluding expenses on the capital construction, reconstruction and repair of fixed assets that have a positive environmental effect.The Company’s strategic goals in ensuring environmental safety 
and the sustainable use of natural resources are:
 >to reduce its environmental footprint and support a favourable natural 
and living environment;
 >to prevent environmental damage from business activities;
 >to preserve biodiversity amidst conditions of a growing man-made burden;
 >the sustainable use, restoration and protection of natural resources.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
93
www.gazprom-neft.comBased on these plans, the Company prioritises the following activities:
 >risk management in environmental safety;
 >environmental monitoring and industrial environmental control;
 >management of the emergency prevention and containment system 
and mitigating the consequences of emergencies;
 >commissioning environmental facilities;
 >implementing a programme for the value-added use of associated  
petroleum gas;
 >developing energy conservation and improved energy efficiency programmes;
 >developing production waste recycling/disposal programmes;
 >implementing programmes to modernise oil refining assets;
 >developing and implementing biodiversity conservation programmes;
 >developing and introducing eco-technologies;
 >training and developing environmental safety personnel.
An integrated control system in industrial safety, in particular in environmental 
safety, utilised by Gazprom Neft enables the Company to achieve its strategic 
goals and meet its environmental safety obligations.
Such activities are controlled using an environmental management system, 
which meets the requirements of ISO 14001. In 2016, Gazprom Neft underwent 
an independent audit and confirmed the environmental management 
system meets the requirements of ISO 14001:2015. In an effort to improve 
its environmental safety performance, the Company continuously improves 
its business processes as part of the management system and engages 
with stakeholders. Thanks to this work, Gazprom Neft is gradually shifting away 
from carrying out measures to mitigate damage to assessing environmental risks 
and introducing preventive measures to warn about the impact of its production 
activities on the environment.The Company insures risks associated 
with environmental damage to all Gazprom Neft 
enterprises. The insurance coverage reimburses 
any expenses by the enterprises that may arise 
as a result of the unforeseen, unintentional 
or sudden pollution of environmental facilities 
in accordance with environmental legislation.
Investment in environmental safety and protection 
totalled RUB 14.3 billion in 2016. Expenses 
on environmental services and operating costs 
to ensure environmental safety and protection 
amounted to RUB 6.876 billion in 2016.
PAYMENT FOR NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL  
IMPACT (RUB mn)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016
1,927.5545.6837.1270.8
866.1
STRUCTURE OF PAYMENT FOR NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT (RUB mn)
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Emissions to the atmosphere 778.4 1 828.7 406.3 783.2 196.1
Discharges to the environment 0.5 0.8 1.8 0.7 0.2
Production waste disposal 87.2 98.0 137.5 53.2 74.5RUB 14.3  bn
investment in environmental  
safety and protection in 2016
94
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016KEY ATMOSPHERE PROTECTION PROJECTS IN 2016 INCLUDED
The Moscow Oil Refinery:
 >rebuilding the sulphur production unit and supplementing it with a tail 
gas clean-up unit. The project has minimised sulphur dioxide emissions 
and completely eliminated hydrogen sulphide emissions;
 >introducing an automated system for hermetically sealing bitumen into tanks, 
which reduced pollutant emissions from the operation of the bitumen plant;
 >launching construction on a Euro+ oil refining unit. High-tech equipment 
and a large degree of automation will improve oil refining efficiency by 19% 
and reduce emissions per tonne of raw materials by 11%;
 >continuing to build the ‘Biosphera’ treatment plants, which will cut 
emissions by 95%.
Omsk Oil Refinery:
 >drafting and approving design documentation for the construction of new 
treatment plants;
 >modernising certain process units that significantly affect the level 
of emissions. Overall, the Omsk Oil Refinery has reduced the total volume 
of pollutants by 36% while simultaneously increasing oil refining volumes 
by 30% over the five years that it has been rebuilding equipment.PROTECTING 
THE ATMOSPHERE
Sergey Donskoy
Russian Minister of Natural Resources 
and the EnvironmentThe current projects being implemented 
at the Moscow Oil Refinery are essentially 
projects of the future. This is a huge plus both 
for the region and for the refinery itself in terms 
of competitiveness
The growth in gross air pollutant emissions in 2016 compared with 2015 is related 
to an increase in oil production volume, including at subsidiaries with mature 
assets.The oil refining assets modernisation programme 
has enabled Gazprom Neft to proceed 
with the production of a full range of high-
octane petrol and diesel fuel that meet  Euro-5 
emission standards.  The transition 
by consumers to fuel of this higher emission 
standard significantly reduces emissions when 
used in motor vehicle engines.One of the Company’s primary environmental objectives is to reduce air 
pollutant emissions. In an effort to meet this objective, Gazprom Neft is carrying 
out an ambitious programme to modernise and rebuild its oil refining assets 
by making them safer and more environmentally friendly.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
95
www.gazprom-neft.comSTRUCTURE OF GROSS AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS (1,000 t)
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Solids 55.2 20.9 13.5 13.8 18.4
Hydrocarbons (without VOCs) 120.7 79.1 57.6 55.8 46.2
Carbon monoxide (CO) 411.6 177.1 125.9 143.7 173.6
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 11.0 9.5 13.2 10.5 18.0
Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 21.9 30.2 46.8 96.0 124.8
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 104.2 91.1 91.5 72.6 88.4
Other gaseous and liquid substances 0.5 0.4 0.4 1.0 0.7
STRUCTURE OF GROSS AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS BY THE COMPANY’S BUSINESSES IN 2016 (1,000 t)
Indicator Oil exploration and 
productionOffshore projects Oil refining Logistics and sales 
Solids 13.9 2.8 1.6 0.1
Hydrocarbons (without VOCs) 39.8 2.6 0.1 3.7
Carbon monoxide (CO) 148.7 22.3 2.2 0.4
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 11.0 2.2 4.3 0.5
Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 112.5 0.2 11.6 0.5
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 57.9 0.3 20.7 9.5
Other gaseous and liquid substances 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4
SPECIFIC INDICATORS OF AIR POLLUTANT EMISSION IN 2016
Indicator Measurement unit 2015 2016
Specific gross air pollutant emissions kg/t of extracted hydrocarbons (TOE) 0.0046 0.0048
kg/t of processed hydrocarbons (TOE) 0.0001 0.0007SHARE OF COMPANY'S BUSINESSES IN TOTAL POLLUTANT  
EMISSIONS IN 2016 (%)
Source: Company data
Oil exploration and production
Oﬀshore projects
Oil reﬁning
Logistics and petroleum product sales82
6
10
2GROSS AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS  
(1,000 t)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 470.1
725.1408.3348.9393.4
96
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016As one of the leaders in the Russian oil industry, Gazprom Neft is aware of its 
responsibility to preserve the environment for present and future generations. 
The problem of climate change reinforces the importance of this issue 
and activities to reduce emissions at the company and national level. 
The Company is developing a programme to increase the utilisation of associated 
petroleum gas at all its production assets.GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
The Company monitors greenhouse gas emissions 
generated by its operations. Emissions are assessed 
based on the following aspects:
 >direct greenhouse gas emissions related 
to the flaring of hydrocarbon fuel and substances, 
the operation of production facilities and process 
losses;
 >indirect energy emissions related 
to the consumption of third-party electricity, 
heat, steam or cooling.
FLOWCHART OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION ACTIVITIES AND SOURCES
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
OIL REFINING
GENERAL PROCESSES
CONSUMPTION OF THIRD-PARTY 
ENERGY/HEAT INDIRECT ENERGY  
(COVERAGE AREA 2)DIRECT  
(COVERAGE AREA 1)GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY THE 
GAZPROM NEFT GROUP’S  
ENTERPRISESAPG FLARING  
(FOR OWN NEEDS)
LEAKS (PROCESS LOSSES, 
EMERGENCY)
FLARING
LEAKS OF METHANE-CONTAINING 
GAS
USE OF HYDROCARBONS 
IN CHEMICAL PROCESSES
USE OF STANDARD FUEL 
TO PRODUCE ENERGY
USE OF INTERNAL 
TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
CONSUMPTION / LEAK OF COOLING 
AGENTS OR FREON]
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
97
www.gazprom-neft.comTotal greenhouse gas emissions amounted 
to 16.2 million tonnes of CO2-equivalent 
in 2016, a 27.5% increase from the previous 
year. The growth in greenhouse gas emissions 
in 2016 is due to the commissioning of new major 
fields at which APG utilisation infrastructure 
will be built in subsequent reporting periods 
and also due to an increase in heat and electricity 
consumption as a result of the unusually cold 
winter. Gazprom Neft also continued implementing 
projects to increase the level of effective 
APG utilisation in 2016.KEY PROJECTS TO INCREASE THE LEVEL OF EFFECTIVE APG  
UTILISATION IN 2016
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District:  the ongoing construction of Russia’s 
largest complex gas treatment plant (CGTP) at the Novoportovskoye field. 
The plant compresses, purifies and dries APG by reinjecting it into the pay zone.
 >APG utilisation level: at least 95%.
 >Design capacity: over 7 billion m3 of gas per year.
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District: commissioning of the Yety-Purovskaya 
Compressor Station.
 >Processing capacity: 1.2 billion m3/year.
 >Up to 99% APG utilisation level at the Yety-Purovskoye, Vyngayakhinskoye 
and Volyntoyskoye fields.
Orenburg Region: construction of a compressor station at the Eastern 
section of the Orenburg oil and gas condensate field to transport APG 
to the Orenburg Gas Processing Plant.
 >Design capacity: up to 6 billion m3 of gas per year.
 >APG utilisation level: at least 95%.
Tomsk Region:  commissioning of a gas turbine power plant at the Shinginskoye 
field, which uses its own electricity to supply all the power required by oil and gas 
production, processing and transport facilities at the Shinginskoye group of fields.
 >Capacity: 24 MW.
 >APG utilisation level: at least 75%.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (mn t of СО2-equivalent)1
Indicator 2013 2014 2015 2016
Greenhouse gas emissions, including: 13.3 12.4 12.7 16.2
direct greenhouse gas emissions 11.8 11.1 10.7 13.8
indirect greenhouse gas emissions 1.5 1.3 2.0 2.4
1 CO2-equivalent  (CO2-equ., CO2e) is a unit used to measure 
the potential global warming of greenhouse gases. Carbon dioxide 
is the standard used to estimate all other greenhouse gases.
2 Data  for 2014-2016 includes performance of Gazpromneft-Yamal.APG PRODUCTION AND USAGE (mn m3)
Source: Company data
02 0004 0006 0008 00010 000
6,3576,7797,6048,1349,435
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Use 4,175 5,387 6,128 6,498 7,583
Flaring 2,182 1,392 1,476 1,636 1,853
Production 6,357 6,779 7,604 8,134 9,435APG UTILISATION LEVEL (%) 2
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 80.4
65.779.580.679.9Implementing programmes to increase 
the effective utilisation of associated 
petroleum gas at production assets 
is one of the Company’s strategic 
goals. Building the required infrastructure 
and facilities significantly reduces 
greenhouse gas emissions during 
the full-scale development of assets while 
increasing the efficiency of hydrocarbon 
production.
98
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016KEY WATER RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECTS IN 2016
Moscow Region:  the installation of the ‘Biosphera’ treatment plants 
at the Moscow Oil Refinery. The complex consists of a multi-stage wastewater 
treatment system that includes mechanical, physicochemical, biological, 
filtration and ultrafiltration stages as well as a reverse osmosis unit. The launch 
of the ‘Biosphera’ plant in 2017 will enable the Moscow Oil Refinery to increase 
wastewater treatment efficiency to 99%, which will exceed the performance 
of Europe’s best refineries. The use of a multi-stage biological treatment 
system will enable the refinery to reduce water consumption by 60%, while 75% 
of the water will be recycled into the enterprise’s production cycle.
Omsk Region: preparations for the construction of enclosed treatment plants 
at the Omsk Oil Refinery. The advanced technological solutions for the multi-stage 
treatment of industrial effluents contained in the Omsk Refinery project drastically 
reduce the size of the treatment facilities and reduce emissions of harmful 
substances by several times. All industrial effluents at the Omsk Refinery will 
undergo mechanical, physicochemical, biological, filtration and decontamination 
purification stages. The final stage will remove possible harmful microbes, 
viruses and bacteria as well as mould and spores from the effluents. The plant 
will cut its consumption of fresh water in half by returning the treated effluents 
to the enterprise’s technological process. The project is included in a federal 
action plan as part of the Year of Ecology in Russia.Gazprom Neft implements action programmes that 
aim to minimise its volume of water consumption, 
mitigate environmental risks in water resource 
conservation and improve the environmental 
condition of water bodies and their coastal areas.
The Company regularly monitors water protection 
zones as well as surface water, groundwater 
and wastewater and assesses the bottom sediment 
conditions of surface water bodies in the areas 
where it operates. Scientists from the Polar Research 
Institute of Marine Fisheries and Oceanography 
are carrying out comprehensive studies of the water 
environment as well as key hydrological and hydro-
chemical indicators of the water condition near 
the Prirazlomnaya offshore platform. Spending 
on industrial environmental control and monitoring 
of water bodies totalled RUB 25.9 million in 2016, 
a 10.6% increase from the previous year.
3 The  increase in the volume of water withdrawn and received is related 
to increased drilling volumes at the enterprises of the Company’s 
Upstream Division.WATER 
MANAGEMENT
Marianna Kharlamova
Director of the Ecological Monitoring and Forecasting Department 
at the Peoples' Friendship University of RussiaThe ‘Biosphera’ system of the Moscow Oil 
Refinery can be considered an example 
of the best available technologies being 
introduced into the practice of Russian 
oil refining. The traditional setup was 
supplemented with highly effective methods 
of sorption and membrane purification, 
which will significantly increase the efficiency 
of purification using soluble substances.
SPECIFIC WATER CONSUMPTION AND DISPOSAL INDICATORS IN 2016
Measurement units Specific water consumption for the Company’s 
internal needsSpecific disposal of contaminated water 
to surface water bodies
m3/t of extracted hydrocarbons (TOE) 1.672 0
m3/t of processed hydrocarbons (TOE) 0.224 0.0017VOLUME OF WATER WITHDRAWN AND RECEIVED 
FROM VARIOUS SOURCES (mn m3)3 
Source: Company data
2012 2013 
126.10 7.10 34.60133.65 32.90 7.55135.90 33.65 7.65141.00 32.70 0.7133.00 36.40 8.1
From underground sources
From surface sourcesFrom other 
organisations2014 2015 2016
167.80 174.10 177.20 174.40 177.50
0125250375500
2012 2013 2014 2015  2016
Use in water recycling 
systems 381.4 396.7 406.5 393.7 403.1
Use in water reuse systems 166.6 179.3 180.3 107.1 184.9
Transfer to other consumers 
without use 18.9 17.8 18.0 18.1 18.6VOLUME OF WATER CONSUMPTION (mn m3)
Source: Company data
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
99
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft’s industrial waste management 
system aims to ensure environmentally sound 
waste management, optimise waste flows, mitigate 
the environmental impact and reduce the economic 
cost of waste generation. The Company strives 
to maximise the possible use of waste in order 
to mitigate its environmental impact.
In 2016, Gazprom Neft developed a concept 
for the utilisation of drilling waste in order 
to mitigate environmental risks and reduce well 
construction costs. The concept takes into account 
the infrastructure of the fields under development, 
the existing technologies for and disposal 
drilling waste, key performance indicators, well 
construction methods (sump and sump-less drilling), 
waste injection into the reservoir and remote fields. 
The concept is to be introduced at the subsidiaries 
of the Upstream Division in 2017.
During the reporting year, the Company began 
introducing sludge pit reclamation technology using 
environmentally friendly soil obtained from drill 
cuttings. In 2015, the technology underwent testing 
at a number of the Company’s fields and was 
given a favourable conclusion as part of a state 
expert environmental review. Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegaz successfully used the method 
to reclaim sludge pits.WASTE MANAGEMENT
The Moscow Oil Refinery has obtained a waste management license. Starting 
in 2016, all enterprises that collect, transport, process and recycle waste 
are required to have a license in accordance with federal legislation. The refinery 
has been implementing a large-scale modernisation programme since 2011 
as part of which all waste that accumulated prior to 1991 has been eliminated. 
Over the five years of the programme, the enterprise recycled more than 
180,000 tonnes of oily waste, freed up roughly 15 hectares of the refinery’s 
territory and reclaimed polluted soil.MOSCOW OIL REFINERY MODERNISATION PROGRAMMESHARE OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES IN TOTAL WASTE GENERATION  
IN 2016 (%)
Source: Company data
Oil exploration and production
Oﬀshore projectsOil reﬁningLogistics and petroleum product sales79.8
2.3
8.2
9.7
100
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016DYNAMICS OF KEY WASTE MANAGEMENT INDICATORS (1,000 t)
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Waste generation, including: 424.20 530.90 657.20 1104.51 906.70
Class I hazard 0.032 0.030 0.025 0.024 0.028
Class II hazard 0.050 0.010 0.010 0.636 0.011
Class III hazard 154.10 80.91 93.00 168.19 72.50
Class IV hazard 221.40 398.70 486.20 818.94 757.5
Class V hazard 48.60 50.50 78.00 116.72 76.7
Waste received from other organisations 6.13 5.66 5.88 5.12 0.375  
Class I hazard 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.000
Class II hazard 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.000
Class III hazard 0.12 0.09 0.92 0.10 0.280
Class IV hazard 6.01 5.57 4.92 5.01 0.015 
Class V hazard 0.01 0.00 0.03 0.00 0.080 
Waste utilisation (including transfer to other organisations 
for use), including: 98.84 193.61 324.84 689.62 415.4
Class I hazard 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.00
Class II hazard 0.004 0.010 0.010 0.005 0.004
Class III hazard 18.33 19.89 17.15 15.71 8.4
Class IV hazard 53.51 153.24 273.22 613.37 365.5
Class V hazard 26.99 20.48 34.46 60.53 41.5
Waste neutralisation and disposal (including transfer 
to other organisations for neutralisation and disposal), 
including: 404.99 408.58 486.13 405.22 489.64
Class I hazard 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.03
Class II hazard 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.63 0.01
Class III hazard 149.61 61.11 59.57 153.69 71.1
Class IV hazard 233.68 322.53 389.28 199.99 378.4
Class V hazard 21.62 24.92 37.26 50.89 40.1
Accumulated waste as of the end of the year, including: 291.27 224.88 77.02 88.79 63.6
Class I hazard 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0
Class II hazard 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0
Class III hazard 0.00 0.00 17.21 12.01 7.4
Class IV hazard 290.22 218.72 47.34 62.74 55.6
Class V hazard 1.05 6.16 12.47 14.04 0.6
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
101
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft reclaims disturbed and contaminated 
land and sludge pits taking into account the climatic, 
hydrological, soil and vegetative conditions 
of the regions. The reclamation programmes 
involve an inventory of the land, an assessment 
of the soil contamination level, the selection 
of the most effective rehabilitation technology 
and an assessment of the quality of environmental 
restoration work, including chemical and analytical 
monitoring.
Since 2014, the Company has been implementing 
the ‘Clean Territory’ project, which aims to reduce 
pipeline failure rates and the area of contaminated 
land. The project includes diagnostics and monitoring 
of corrosion, the reconstruction and replacement 
of roughly 400 km of pipelines per year.PROTECTION OF LAND RESOURCES 
AND VEGETATION
Since 2014, 
the Company has 
been implementing 
the ‘Clean 
Territory’ 
project, which 
aims to reduce 
pipeline failure 
rates and the area 
of contaminated 
land. Gazprom Neft developed the use of drones 
to monitor the technical condition of oil pipelines 
during the reporting year. The drones provide 
continuous remote control of pipeline integrity, 
including at remote sections of fields, and reduce 
emergency response time. The drones, which 
are equipped with photo cameras, video cameras 
and thermal imagers, are controlled from a ground 
station using a GPS navigator. The use of drones 
allows for tripling the number of flights that can be 
made and also improves the observation quality 
compared with what can be seen from helicopters. 
Gazpromneft-Muravlenko and Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegaz used drones for monitoring 
during the reporting year.UNMANNED MONITORINGKEY GAZPROM NEFT PROJECTS TO IMPROVE 
THE RELIABILITY OF PIPELINES IN 2016
The use of advanced technologies when building 
a 96-km pipeline with capacity of 7 million tonnes 
of oil per year that will connect the Messoyakha 
group of fields with the northernmost point 
of the Zapolyarye-Purpe oil transportation system. 
Semi-automatic and automatic welding guarantees 
the high quality of pipe joints and ensures 
the reliability of the oil pipeline. A fibre-optic 
cable that records any risks of depressurisation 
in the system will be routed along the entire route.
The use of a mobile laboratory for the non-
destructive testing of pipelines at Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegaz. The equipment allows 
for the remote monitoring of the technical 
condition of main pipelines using X-ray equipment 
as well as ultrasonic flaw detection and thickness 
measurement devices.
New pipeline diagnostic methods. 
The magnetometric method is based on recording 
magnetic fields and makes it possible to identify 
zones of localised corrosion. Gazpromneft-
Noyabrskneftegaz conducted successful tests 
of the device in late 2015. The development 
of internal pipeline indicators will make it possible 
to conduct diagnostics on small-diameter infield 
pipelines (up to 219 mm), which are the most prone 
to corrosion.
102
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company introduced the approach 
of recycling drilling waste at temporary 
storage sites without building sludge pits 
in 2015 and continued to successfully utilise 
this approach throughout 2016. Drilling waste 
is recycled with the construction material obtained 
subsequently being used to eliminate temporary 
drilling waste storage sites and also at other 
facilities in accordance with its designated 
purpose. 
SPECIFIC LAND PROTECTION INDICATORS IN 2016
Ratio of area of contaminated land at the end 
of the year vs. at the start of the year ha/ha 0.0046
Specific amount of spilled oil, condensate 
and petroleum products as a result of accidents 
and leakskg / t of extracted 
hydrocarbons (TOE)0.0021
1 Oil contaminated lands were reclaimed in 2016 in full compliance. 
The decrease in reclamation compared with 2015 is due to the use 
of resource-saving technologies as part of the ‘Clean Territory’ 
corporate project, which led to a decrease in the area 
of contaminated land. RECLAMATION OF OIL CONTAMINATED LAND  (ha)1
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 86.5
55.99138.46388.6183.9RECLAMATION OF SLUDGE PITS  
(pits)
Source: Company data
2014
20122015
20132016 3
1061249044
The trees and shrubs located on the territory 
of the Moscow Oil Refinery have been entered into 
the ‘Register of Green Spaces’ municipal information 
system. Specialists from the Department of Nature 
Management and Environmental Protection 
conducted an inventory of 1,700 trees and more 
than 5,000 shrubs at the Moscow Oil Refinery. 
The requirement for green spaces at the production 
sites of Moscow enterprises is 10%, while the area 
occupied by green spaces at the Moscow Oil 
Refinery makes up 24.6% of the company’s territory.LANDSCAPING OF THE MOSCOW OIL REFINERY24.6%
area occupied by green 
spaces at the Moscow Oil 
Refinery
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
103
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Company's field development projects include 
a programme to rehabilitate aquatic biological 
resources.
In order to comply with the Russian President’s 
orders on the safe development of the Arctic, 
Gazprom Neft is implementing a perpetual corporate 
programme to preserve biodiversity based 
on a list of flora and fauna that serve as indicators 
of the stable condition of the marine ecosystems 
in Russia’s Arctic zone. The programme was 
developed by the Company jointly with leading 
scientific research institutes, Russian Arctic National 
Park and the Marine Mammal Council taking into 
recommendations from the UN Development 
Programme, the Global Environment Facility, 
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment 
and the World Wildlife Fund in Russia.
The programme to preserve biodiversity in Russia’s 
Arctic zone was recognised by specialists 
from the Ministry of Natural Resources 
and Environment and the scientific community 
as one of the best programmes organised 
under the Russian President’s orders and other 
similar programmes developed by companies 
in Russia.
The programme took into consideration international 
and national requirements as well as agreements 
and conventions related to the preservation 
of biodiversity and the diversity of life forms, 
including genetic diversity, the diversity of species 
and ecosystems as well as their ability to change, 
adapt and evolve.
The Company plans to develop and introduce 
a Biodiversity Preservation Programme for all its 
facilities located in Russia in 2017 as part of the Year 
of Ecology.PRESERVING 
BIODIVERSITY 
Gazprom Neft Shelf conducted a study during 
the reporting year on how a wide range 
of fauna species could be potentially impacted 
by the Prirazlomnaya platform in the Pechora 
Sea as well as escort vessels and tankers that 
deliver oil to Murmansk from the Novoportovskoye 
and Prirazlomnoye fields based on a programme 
and list of indicator species. The research 
was conducted offshore, on the coast 
and in coastal waters.  
The reproduction dynamics of plankton, 
which have an extremely short life cycle, 
are one of the indicators of the ecosystem’s health. 
The study results did not reveal any significant 
stressful impact on plankton in 2016.
Ornithological studies on the islands of the Nenets 
Refinery demonstrated the successful breeding 
of anseriformes birds and the appearance of 75 new 
species of birds, including a range of eight rare 
species: the white-tailed eagle, pallid harrier, 
peregrine falcon, gyrfalcon and Bewick's Swan, 
among others.
A study of marine mammals near the Prirazlomnaya 
platform found large spring groupings of harp seals 
(several thousand) as well as a few Atlantic walruses. 
The study showed the platform and escort vessels 
had no significant impact on the animals. In 2016, 
satellite transmitters started being used to study 
walrus migration. The first data indicates that 
walruses actively occupy the water area between 
the islands of Dolgy and Vaigach.FAUNA STUDIES NEAR THE PRIRAZLOMNAYA 
PLATFORM
The Company 
plans to develop 
and introduce 
a Biodiversity 
Preservation 
Programme 
for all its 
facilities located  
in Russia in 2017 
as part of the Year 
of Ecology.
104
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016HIGHER PRODUCTION GROWTH RATES HAVE LED TO INCREASED 
ENERGY CONSUMPTION AT THE COMPANY. IN AN EFFORT 
TO MINIMISE THE IMPACT OF THIS PROCESS, GAZPROM NEFT 
IS WORKING ON IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND OPTIMISING 
THE USE OF ENERGY RESOURCES BY INTRODUCING A SYSTEMATIC 
APPROACH TO MEETING THESE CHALLENGES.
One of the priorities for improving the Company’s operational efficiency 
is to enhance the energy efficiency of its production assets. 
The main goals of Gazprom Neft in energy conservation and efficiency are:
 >to enhance the energy efficiency of the Company's enterprises while 
maintaining or improving reliability, safety and performance; 
 >to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment; 
 >to reduce the consumption of non-renewable energy resources.
The Gazprom Neft Energy Policy is the regulatory framework for such activities. 
The Energy Policy serves as the foundation for the Energy Management System 
(EMS), which meets the requirements of ISO 50001:2011. Introducing modern 
tools to manage production gives Gazprom Neft the opportunity to effectively 
utilise the best global and national practices for managing the consumption of fuel 
and energy resources.
The Company has been gradually introducing the EMS at its enterprises since 
2012. In 2016, the EMS was introduced and certified at three subsidiaries 
of the Upstream Division: Gazpromneft-Orenburg, Gazpromneft-Vostok 
and Gazpromneft-Muravlenko. Inspection audits conducted at the Upstream 
Division’s corporate centre and two subsidiaries did not reveal any discrepancies. 
In 2016, the Downstream Division completed the key formation stage of the EMS, 
which unites the upper (corporate centre) and lower (key subsidiaries) levels 
for managing energy conservation and energy efficiency at key subsidiaries 
and the Division as a whole. The Downstream Division’s EMS underwent 
an independent audit and was certified for compliance with the requirements 
of ISO 50001.ENERGY CONSUMPTION 
AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
UPSTREAM DIVISION
The main energy efficiency indicator at Upstream 
Division enterprises is the specific electricity 
consumption for liquid extraction, which totalled 
28.91 kWh/t in 2016, or 1.7% below the planned 
level. 
The Energy Efficiency Programme exceeded its 
targets in 2016. The Upstream Division had energy 
savings of 433 million kWh (RUB 1.251 billion), which 
is a record level for the implementation of energy 
efficiency programmes at Gazprom Neft.
More than one hundred recommendations were 
prepared to replicate energy conservation best 
practices at the Company based on the results 
of Annual Energy Efficiency Surveys of the energy 
management system. 
Anton Gladchenko
Director of the Gazprom Neft Gas  
and Energy DirectorateThe growth in the Company’s energy 
consumption is consistent with the growth 
in the technologies and equipment that 
are being introduced. Implementing energy 
conservation measures not only allows 
us to contain growth, but also reduce 
specific consumption indicators by taking 
a systematic approach, expanding the number 
of participants in the Upstream Division’s 
energy efficiency programme and developing 
energy management.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
105
www.gazprom-neft.comThe most significant energy efficiency projects 
in 2016 included:
 >the use of high efficiency electric submersible 
pump units;
 >the introduction of permanent magnet motors; 
 >the operation of downhole equipment in periodic 
operating modes; 
 >a reduction in water produced and its pumping 
into the formation (shutdown of unprofitable 
wells and the performance of geological 
and technical measures);
 >the selection of the optimal size and replacement 
of pumping units at water-injection and booster 
pumping stations and initial water separation 
units; 
 >the installation of variable frequency drives 
on pumping equipment; 
 >the optimisation of electric heating systems 
(the installation of thermostats).
The Upstream Division pays particular attention 
to the specialised training of its employees. In 2016, 
the Division launched creation of the new ‘Energy 
Conservation’ training module, a project that 
is unique not only for Gazprom Neft subsidiaries, 
CONSUMPTION OF PURCHASED ENERGY 
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Purchased electricity (minus electricity transferred to third 
parties), MWh 4,902,184 5,180,370 5,183,377 5,356,476 5,218,287
Purchased thermal energy (minus electricity transferred 
to third parties), Gcal 29,152 31,623 28,384 22,858 26,700Employees from the Upstream Division’s 
subsidiaries and corporate centre took active part 
in the Russian oil industry festival #ВМЕСТЕЯРЧЕ 
and the international energy forum ENES-2016 
as a partner and participant in energy efficiency 
contests. The youth team from among employees 
of the Upstream Division’s subsidiaries finished 
second in the contest of energy efficiency projects 
at the ENES-2016 forum. Gazprom Neft’s video 
for employees ‘Improving Energy Efficiency’ also 
took home a prize.#ВМЕСТЕЯРЧЕ
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY THE UPSTREAM DIVISION
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Electricity consumption (purchased + generated), MWh 5,690,232 6,032,738 6,177,164 6,419,919 6,298,276
Change vs. previous period, % 6.9 6.0 2.4 3.9 (1.9)
Thermal energy consumption (internally produced and 
purchased from third-party suppliers), GJ 1,231,237 1,218,555 1,064,758 982,015 996,644
Change vs. previous period, % (3) (1) (13) (8) 1433
mn kWh
energy savings 
by the Upstream Division 
in 2016but for the Russian oil industry as a whole. 
The module is primarily designed for engineering 
and technical personnel as well as specialists whose 
activities are directly related to energy-intensive 
business processes. It includes a training course 
as well as a block of a hundred questions to test 
employees’ knowledge on the subject of energy 
conservation.
106
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The key energy efficiency indicator for oil refining enterprises is the energy 
intensity index (EII) calculated using the methodology of Solomon1.
ENERGY INTENSITY INDEX OF THE COMPANY’S OIL REFINERIES
Enterprise 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Omsk Oil Refinery 126 123 117 114 110
Moscow Oil Refinery 124 123 122 114 113
YANOS 110 110 108 109 107
NIS – – 126 122 118
The specific energy consumption indicator is the most convenient for operational 
control. 
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Specific consumption,  
kg OE/t 134.2 131.0 134.6 131.5 136.8
Since 2011, the Downstream Division has employed an Energy Conservation 
and Energy Efficiency Programme, which is the main tool used to implement 
the Company’s Energy and Technical Policy in energy efficiency – a strategic 
priority for the Company’s development – and sets the goals and objectives 
of the Downstream Division’s enterprises in this area for the medium-term. 
The programme is drafted by the Downstream Division’s Energy Department 
for a three-year period with subsequent annual updates. 
Under the Programme, the main focuses of the Division’s energy conservation 
and energy efficiency activities are:
 >to improve work efficiency and optimise the processing behaviour of energy 
and technological equipment,
 >to reduce the fuel and energy intensity of technological processes;
 >to reduce losses of fuel and energy resources;
 >to increase the proportion of steam condensate returned by process units;
 >to increase the efficiency of heat exchange processes and the generation 
and use of thermal energy in core and auxiliary processes;
 >to improve the infrastructure level of core and auxiliary production processes 
at enterprises with metering devices;
 >to introduce the energy management system.The Upstream Division implemented a programme 
to improve reliability and modernise its electrical 
equipment and grids during the reporting year. 
The programme involved the capital construction 
of power supply facilities, the modernisation 
of power grids and substations, the introduction 
of high-speed automatic transfer switch 
and automated information systems as well 
as enhanced storm stability and lightning protection 
of power grids. As a result of the programme, 
oil shortfalls during emergency power shutoffs 
declined by 1.5% compared with 2015.
Taking into account the oil production targets, 
the Company actively developed the capacity 
of power generation facilities by building new 
and expanding existing autonomous power 
plants. Five new power generation facilities were 
commissioned last year.
The decrease in electricity consumption is the result 
of a reduction in the volume of fluid produced. 
The increase in thermal energy consumed 
for oil production processes was due to changes 
in the ambient air temperature.DEVELOPMENT OF CAPACITY AT POWER 
GENERATION FACILITIES (MW)
Source: Company data/uni0420/uni0430/uni0437/uni0432/uni0438/uni0442/uni0438/uni0435 /uni043C/uni043E/uni0449/uni043D/uni043E/uni0441/uni0442/uni0435/uni0439 /uni043E/uni0431/uni044A/uni0435/uni043A/uni0442/uni043E/uni0432 /uni0433/uni0435/uni043D/uni0435/uni0440/uni0430/uni0446/uni0438/uni0438, /uni041C/uni0412/uni0442
20142015
20132016 404
216225266DOWNSTREAM 
DIVISION
1 This  index allows for a quantitative comparison of the energy 
efficiency of a specific oil refinery with another refinery that is similar 
in terms of production units and work conditions. The smaller an 
enterprise’s EII value is, the better its energy efficiency level is.  
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
107
www.gazprom-neft.comThe Division’s main energy conservation and energy 
efficiency measures in the reporting year included:
 >replacing and modernising process furnaces 
to increase their efficiency;
 >optimising the recuperation system and using 
secondary energy resources in technological 
processes (using heat from product flows to heat 
raw materials as well as water and heat flows);
 >increasing the efficiency of fuel use in process 
furnaces by utilising modern technologies 
(ceramic coating of heating surfaces, ultra-thin 
thermal insulation coating and improved burner 
devices);
 >optimising condensate collection and return 
systems;
 >optimising the operation of compressor 
equipment;
 >increasing the efficiency of heat and steam 
supply systems;
 >modernising lighting systems;
 >replacing turbo drives and steam pumps 
with electric drives.
The Division’s energy conservation activities 
in 2016 resulted in savings of 2,369.9 TJ of energy 
and fuel, specifically: 258,700 Gcal of heat energy, 
25,000 TOE of fuel and 16.2 million kWh of electricity. 
Spending on energy resources decreased 
by RUB 528.9 million. The growth in energy intensity 
associated with the commissioning of new process 
units declined by 1.6%, or 7% higher than the 2015 
indicators. In 2016, the Division drafted a Downstream 
Division Energy Conservation Programme 
for 2017-2019. It will include two new enterprises: 
Gazpromneft-Aero and Gazpromneft – Bitumen 
Materials starting in 2017. The projected economic 
effect from the programme’s implementation 
is RUB 1.784 billion. 
Gazprom Neft in 2016 also updated 
a comprehensive programme to improve 
the reliability of power supplies to oil refining 
enterprises in 2017-2019. The programme 
is the main tool for implementing the Downstream 
Division’s Technical Policy in the reliability 
of power supplies and specifies the mechanisms 
for establishing, monitoring, achieving and updating 
the goals and objectives of the Division’s oil refining 
enterprises in this regard.
CONSUMPTION OF PURCHASED ENERGY BY THE DOWNSTREAM DIVISION
Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Purchased electricity (minus electricity transferred to third 
parties), MWh 3,121,124 3,322,147 3,262,669 3,340,550 3,400,210
Change vs. previous period – 6.4 (1.8) 2.4 1.8
Purchased thermal energy (minus electricity transferred 
to third parties), GJ 16,854,981 17,373,245 16,581,709 16,081,895 15,186,997
Change vs. previous period – 3.1 (4.6) (3.0) (5.6)Employees from the Downstream Division’s Energy 
Department are involved in drafting and discussing 
the target programmes and strategies 
of the Russian Federation as well as creating 
the legislative, regulatory and technical framework 
in energy conservation and efficiency. The 
Company’s specialists are members of the Council 
of Chief Power Engineers of Oil Refining 
and Petrochemical Enterprises of Russia and the CIS 
of the Association of Oil and Petroleum Refiners.COMPANY’S SPECIALISTS2,369.9
TJ
energy and fuel 
saved by the energy 
conservation activities 
of the Downstream Division 
in 2016
108
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016A total of 63 measures with investment 
of RUB 667 million were implemented in 2016. 
The main areas of activities included: eliminating 
power equipment failure, increasing the stability 
of power supply systems, improving the technical 
infrastructure level as well as the training 
and advanced training of personnel.
As a result of the programme’s implementation, 
positive trends were seen in target performance 
indicators versus the 2015 levels:
 >the total number of failures decreased by 15%;
 >the total number of technology downtime hours 
due to power supply disruptions decreased 
by 49%;
 >the overall level of resistance to external power 
supply disruptions increased by 30%.
Downstream Division specialists actively work 
to exchange experience within the Company 
and with other enterprises in the industry in order 
to improve the effectiveness of energy efficiency 
and energy conservation work. Gazprom Neft has 
created the ‘Power’ Centre of Excellence, which 
includes the ‘Energy Efficiency’ networking group 
in which Company specialists identify and exchange 
best practices in this area. 
The work performed by the ‘Power’ Centre 
of Excellence during the reporting year resulted 
in an economic effect of RUB 330 million due 
to the implementation of best practices proposed 
by experts from the Centre.
In 2016, representatives of Gazprom Neft and Lukoil 
held a joint meeting as part of the ‘Power’ 
Centre of Excellence attended by specialists 
from the energy divisions of the companies’ 
corporate centres, electrical supervisor staffs 
and Lukoil specialised scientific and technical centre 
as well as energy managers from the ten largest oil 
refineries in the industry.NIS, a European subsidiary of Gazprom Neft, since 2011 has been undergoing 
a transformation from an oil and gas company into an energy holding with a focus 
on the development of renewable energy resources. The energy development 
strategy of NIS today involves using geothermal water, wind, coal and oil 
shale as an energy source. The company currently uses the energy of thermal 
waters for heating with 8 geothermal systems built at 11 wells and another 
20 wells pending. The development of wind generation also helps NIS to ensure 
a reduction in CO2 emissions. In 2016, the Company finished setting up a site 
for the construction of its own wind farm in Plandiste consisting of 40 wind 
turbines with capacity of 100 MW. The wind farm is set to launch operations 
in 2018.DEVELOPMENT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Vladimir Andreyev
Head of the Energy Department  
of the Gazprom Neft Downstream DivisionThe energy conservation programme 
and the ‘Energy Efficiency’ networking group 
within the ‘Power’ Centre of Excellence 
are effective tools that enable the Division 
to systematically improve its performance 
in this area. In 2017, we plan to develop 
interaction with domestic and foreign oil 
refining companies in order to exchange 
and replicate advanced expertise and best 
practices in energy conservation, which will 
help us to achieve even greater success 
in this regard. The work performed 
by the ‘Power’ 
Centre of Excellence 
during the reporting 
year resulted 
in an economic 
effect of RUB 
330 million  due 
to the implementation 
of best practices 
proposed by experts 
from the Centre.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
109
www.gazprom-neft.comHSE AND OS
In 2017, Gazprom Neft plans to:
 >prevent accidents at hazardous production facilities;
 >reduce equipment accidents (incidents) by 10%;
 >reduce the fatal accident rate (FAR) by 30%;
 >prevent man-made emergencies at production facilities.
The Company will implement the following key measures in HSE, OS and CD:
 >the functioning of an industrial safety department at the Corporate University;
 >the training of drivers according to the requirements of the ‘Traffic Safety Control System’ standards 
for defensive/winter driving;
 >the implementation of a corrective action plan to reduce the risk of fires at power-generating plants;
 >the further implementation of updated ‘Basic Safety Rules’;
 >the further introduction of the ‘Five Steps’ risk assessment tool;
 >the development of a method to record accidents as well as hazardous actions and working conditions;
 >the implementation of an incentive programme for providing timely information about violations of industrial 
safety requirements;
 >the creation of a mobile app for Industrial Safety Service employees.
MITIGATING NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 
AND EFFECTIVELY UTILISING RESOURCES
The Company will continue carrying out programmes to improve environmental safety in 2017. As part of efforts 
to implement production programmes to modernise and build infrastructure by 2020 taking into account 
the requirements for reducing the man-made impact on the environment, the Company will continue working 
towards its medium-term goals, in particular:
 >reducing specific harmful (pollutant) air emissions;
 >reducing specific greenhouse gas emissions;
 >reducing the discharge of contaminated and insufficiently treated wastewater into the ground, surface water 
bodies and centralised water disposal systems;
 >increasing the share of disposed and recycled waste;
 >reducing the share of above-limit payments for negative environmental impact;
 >increasing the APG utilisation level to 95%.
As part of the Year of Ecology in Russia, the Company also plans to conduct technical and communications 
measures that aim to mitigate any negative environmental impact and develop an environmental culture.GOALS FOR 2017 
110
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016ENERGY CONSERVATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
TARGETS:
 >To implement the Upstream Division’s 2017 energy conservation and energy efficiency programmes 
(125 mn kWh).
 >To achieve the planned specific electricity consumption indicators for the Upstream Division (29.47 kWh/TJ).
 >To implement the Downstream Division’s energy conservation programme and conserve the following main 
fuel and energy resources: 
 ―heat energy – 525,000 Gcal
 ―fuel – 121,500 TOE
 ―electricity – 30.6 mn kWh
ENERGY CONSERVATION IN MACHINERY AND TECHNOLOGY:
UPSTREAM DIVISION
 >Use of high efficiency electric submersible pump units.
 >Introducing electric submersible pump units with an expanded work area.
 >Conducting geological and technical measures to reduce water produced and pump it into the formation.
 >Installation of variable frequency drives on pumping equipment.
 >Replacement of submersible cables with cables that have an enlarged cross-section.
 >Pilot testing of pump equipment with improved performance and efficiency indicators.
 >Reconstruction/modernisation of pump units.
 >Modernisation of lighting systems and optimisation of electric heating systems.
DOWNSTREAM DIVISION
Key objectives in improving energy conservation management: 
 >The expansion of the scope of the Downstream Division’s Unified Energy Management System 
with the priority energy-related enterprises: Slavneft-YANOS (JV) and the branch of Gazpromneft-Lubricant 
Materials LLC – Omsk Lubricant Materials Plant;
 >The organisation of EMS training for employees and the advanced training of the energy managers 
of the Division’s subsidiaries;
 >The development of corporate standards and methodologies in energy conservation and efficiency;
 >The exchange of experience with oil companies (continued experience of energy efficiency meetings 
between Gazprom Nef enterprises and other oil companies).
Key objectives in improving the reliability of power supplies:  
The Downstream Division’s power supply reliability management system will be improved and developed 
in several areas in the medium-term, including: 
 >searching for, adapting and replicating new technologies, methods and best practices, establishing a new 
functionality and increasing the use and effectiveness of the system’s existing resources (material resources 
and personnel);
 >strengthening and centralising the functional vertical of energy management;
 >expanding the functions of the Main Control Room as regards the real-time assessment and monitoring 
of energy equipment reliability indicators;
 >systematic work to improve the skill and motivation level of personnel;
 >performing additional targeted research work in reliability.
SAFE DEVELOPMENT: INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION
111
www.gazprom-neft.comREGIONAL POLICY 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
The sustainable development of the Company 
and the regions where it operates is inextricably 
linked. When planning and carrying out its activities, 
Gazprom Neft seeks to enhance the competitiveness 
of the regions and improve the quality of life of local 
communities. In an effort to meet these objectives, 
Gazprom Neft implements a social investment 
programme and develops cooperation with all 
stakeholders.GOALS 
AND RESULTS IN 2016
Extend social investment management best practices 
to the Company’s subsidiaries. Scale the ‘Native Towns’ 
programme to 14 of the Company’s subsidiaries
Provide further assistance for the qualitative transformation 
of the social environment of the regions where it operates 
through advanced social project planning tools and innovative 
solutions for the socioeconomic development of the regions 
and also involve the government authorities, the business 
community,  non-profit organisations and the local population 
in the transformation process
Expand successful practices in the regions. Scale the interregional 
projects: the ‘Multiplying Talent’ tournament, ‘Stenograffia’ 
festival, ‘DIY City’ project laboratory and the ‘Native Town’ festival
Modernise the system used to prepare for and implement social 
projects by introducing a corporate standard that regulates 
the interaction of the Company’s corporate headquarters 
and subsidiaries in the regions where it operates
Document the Company’s policy with respect to the indigenous 
peoples of northern Russia taking into account the Company’s 
existing practices and the standards of generally accepted 
international documents
Conduct grant competitions for social initiatives in six regions 
where the Company operates (the Omsk, Orenburg and Tyumen 
Regions, Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District and Khanty-Mansi 
Autonomous District-Yugra) with a grant fund of more than 
RUB 23 million and at least 80 participants
Conduct a second competition of volunteer projects 
with the implementation of at least 25 initiativesGoal achieved.
One of the innovative social project planning tools was utilised in Omsk 
and Khanty-Mansiysk in 2016 with the establishment of a project 
laboratory. The use of such social investment tools as grant competitions 
for social initiatives and corporate volunteering, among other things, 
contributed to the active involvement of all stakeholders in the regional 
development process.
Goal achieved. Detailed results are presented in the ‘Social activities 
of the Company’ section. 
The ‘Procedure for Preparing, Protecting, Implementing and Monitoring 
the Social Investments of Subsidiaries’ was drafted and approved.
The Company launched a programme in 2016 to systematise 
engagement with indigenous peoples of northern Russia and analyse 
existing practices and international standards. A Company policy 
will be formulated with respect to such peoples based on this work. 
The project is scheduled to be completed in 2017.
Grant competitions were held in the six targeted regions. The grant fund 
totalled RUB 24.15 million and 84 projects were implemented as part 
of the competitions in 2016.
A second competition of volunteer projects was held with 30 employee 
initiatives implemented.GOAL RESULT
114
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016THE GEOGRAPHY OF GAZPROM NEFT’S OPERATIONS CURRENTLY 
ENCOMPASSES MORE THAN 30 REGIONS OF RUSSIA, 
SIX FORMER SOVIET REPUBLICS AND SIX OTHER COUNTRIES. 
IN MOST OF THE REGIONS THE COMPANY IS HEAVILY INVOLVED 
IN THE SOCIOECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE SURROUNDING 
AREA, AND IN A NUMBER OF REGIONS IT PLAYS A STRATEGIC ROLE.
The Company focuses on creating favourable socioeconomic and legal conditions 
for its activities in the regions where it operates, minimising the manmade impact 
on the environment, creating a comfortable social environment for residents 
in the regions, including the Company’s employees and their families, developing 
cooperation with stakeholders as well as ensuring information openness 
and transparency.
With its contribution to regional development, Gazprom Neft acts as a:
Investor and taxpayer
 >Develops the potential of regions by establishing new production facilities, 
exploring new fields, modernising assets and creating production 
infrastructure.
 >Develops transport infrastructure in the regions by building petroleum product 
supply enterprises and expanding its petrol station network.
 >Pays taxes to regional local budgets.
Employer
 >Creates and maintains jobs at the Company, contractor organisations and local 
suppliers of goods and services.
 >Expands opportunities for the professional and career growth of its employees 
utilising development programmes.
Supplier and customer
 >Supplies high-quality petroleum productions to the regions.
 >Supplies petroleum products to remote areas of northern Russia.
 >Provides discounts for petroleum product supplies to agricultural producers.
 >Orders materials and services from local producers, including Russian-made 
import-substituting products for oil production and refining.
 >Participates in regional import substitution programmes.
 >Takes part in federal initiatives to create and develop tools to support 
enterprises and manufacturers of import-substituting products.THE COMPANY AND THE REGIONS: 
COOPERATION TO MEET SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
1 Staff  numbers as of the end of 2016.DISTRIBUTION OF GAZPROM NEFT PERSONNEL 
BY REGION (people)1 
Source: Company data
St. Petersburg and Leningrad Region 
YNADOmsk Region Moscow and Moscow Region 
KMAD-Yugra 
Sverdlovsk Region Novosibirsk RegionIvanovo Region  
Tyumen Region 
Orenburg Region Tomsk Region Other Russian regions Former Soviet republicsOther countries
SerbiaIraqIraqi KurdistanAustriaItaly
Romania13,797
10,625
9,162
6,807
5,151
3,710
1,725
1,175
1,060
905
743
909
3,987
6,805
5,857
681
136
48
47
3666,561
people
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
115
www.gazprom-neft.comParticipant in law-making activities
 >Takes part in assessments of the regulatory impact of regional regulations 
and improves the legal environment for oil and gas industry operations.
 >Is involved in preparing regulations that aim to enhance the investment appeal 
of the regions and improve administrative processes in the oil and gas industry.
Environmental activities initiator and participant
 >Implements environmental programmes.
 >Takes part in biodiversity conservation projects.
 >Carries out programmes to modernise refining assets and minimise the man-
made environmental impact.
Participant in regional sustainable development programmes and a social 
investor
 >Implements programmes for socioeconomic cooperation with regional 
and local authorities.
 >Carries out the ‘Native Towns’ social investment programme.
The Gazprom Neft Regional Policy Concept is the fundamental document that 
specifies the goals, objectives and manner of interaction with the regions. 
It is updated based on changes in the external environment and the Company’s 
ability to facilitate regional development. The next round of updates 
to the document is scheduled for 2017.
Tools for implementing Gazprom Neft’s regional policy:
 >cooperation agreements with regional and local authorities;
 >the ‘Native Towns’ social investment programme;
 >participation in law-making activities at the regional level;
 >involvement in expert evaluations and the assessment of the regional 
development programmes of the executive and municipal authorities;
 >representation in local legislative bodies, public bodies set up within federal 
and local government bodies as well as public, industry and business 
associations;
 >regular discussions of relevant issues involving the Company’s cooperation 
with the regions at Russian and international forums;
 >organisation of dialogues with stakeholders;
 >information disclosure.Gazprom Neft builds relations with the regional 
authorities based on the principles of a long-term, 
systematic partnership. Their areas of cooperation 
are determined by the socioeconomic development 
strategies of the regions taking into account 
changes to the external environment and based 
on the relevance of the problems and challenges 
facing the regions. As part of its partnership 
with the government, Gazprom Neft implements 
projects that aim to preserve stable tax conditions 
in key regions where it operates and also drafts 
and introduces import substitution programmes.
In 2016, the Company worked in the format 
of socioeconomic agreements with the governments 
of 13 regions of the Russian Federation 
and the administrations of 21 municipalities. 
Gazprom Neft’s investment in regional development 
under the agreements totalled RUB 3.097 billion, 
as the Company performed all the obligations 
stipulated in the agreements.
The Company develops different tools for regional 
development support. Such tools include roadmaps 
that identify areas where the products of local suppliers 
can be used in the Company’s production activities. 
A long-term plan of this sort was already approved 
for 2013-2016 by the Tomsk Region government 
and is to be updated for 2017. Gazprom Neft plans 
to approve a roadmap with the Tyumen Region 
government in 2017. The Company is committed 
to expanding the base of local suppliers 
and manufacturers in each region where it operates.One of the priority areas of Gazprom Neft’s regional policy is import substitution. 
Since 2014, Gazprom Neft has been implementing a programme to phase out 
imported lubricants and process fluids used at utilities enterprises and in various 
industrial sectors. Supplying the regional economies with Russian-made 
lubricants that have excellent consumer properties and replacing imported 
equipment manufacturers significantly reduces budget spending. Over the course 
of the programme, Gazprom Neft has signed lubricant supply agreements 
with the governments of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District, Khanty-
Mansi Autonomous District, St. Petersburg as well as the Stavropol, Murmansk, 
Magadan and Orenburg Regions. The Kamchatka and Astrakhan Regions joined 
the programme in 2016.IMPORT SUBSTITUTION PROGRAMNatalya Komarova
Governor of Khanty-Mansi Autonomous  
District-YugraThe Yugra government’s collaboration 
with Gazprom Neft represents the coming 
together of two partners committed 
to sustainable development and moving 
forward. We greatly appreciate the company’s 
investment in attracting new, innovative 
technologies to the region. The 2016 
agreement includes specific points concerning 
the company’s involvement in implementing 
the ‘LEAN Region’ concept, particularly 
in terms of implementing LEAN production, 
and in developing a network of scientific-
research centres for LEAN technologies. 
I believe this new partnership round will 
serve to improve productivity and our wider 
economy, as a whole.
116
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE OF REGIONAL POLICY
MANAGEMENT BOARD
Development of a strategy and overall management of the implementation of the regional policy 
and an  assessment of the results and activities of functional management.
CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS UNIT
 > Preparation of performance standards to implement the approved regional policy
 > Organising and coordinating events as part of the regional policy in the regions where 
the Company operates 
 > Providing support to the Company’s investment projects at the level of the regional authorities
 > Collecting and processing regional information that affects the regional policy and preparing 
the relevant reports, reviews and background information
 > Administrative support for socioeconomic agreements
 > Conducting an annual audit of the relations of the Company and its subsidiaries with the regional 
authorities
 > Coordinating the Company’s regional policy activities
 > Overall coordination of the Company’s social investment programme
 > Compilation of the budget for the social investment programme
 > Development of social projects as part of the ‘Native Towns’ programme
 > Expert evaluation of the social investment programmes of subsidiaries
 > Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s social investments
 > Communication support for social programmes
REGIONAL POLICY COMMISSION
 > Collecting and considering proposals on the implementation of the regional policy and social 
investment programmes from the Company’s structural divisions and its subsidiaries
 > Drafting recommendations on the implementation of the proposed initiatives
 > Approval of social investment projectsCORE DEPARTMENTS OF CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
 > Preparing proposals to implement the regional policy
 > Preparing proposals on the development of the Company’s 
business in the regions and the content of social projects
 > Implementing the decisions of the Regional Policy Commission
 > Assessment and endorsement of the social investment 
projects of subsidiaries as part of the activities of the Regional 
Policy CommissionSUBSIDIARIES
 > Preparing proposals to implement the regional policy 
and develop business in the regions
 > Implementing the decisions of the Regional Policy Commission 
 > Interaction with representatives of the regional and municipal 
authorities
 > Planning social activities in the region:
 ― preparation of a list of potential social projects based 
on engagement with stakeholders
 ― development, implementation and monitoring 
of the progress of projects and an assessment 
of their effectiveness
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
117
www.gazprom-neft.comGazprom Neft is actively involved in projects to improve the quality of roads 
in the regions, providing innovative bitumen materials to build test road sections. 
Based on an analysis of the operation of the test sections, individual compounds 
of binding materials are developed for each region and used to significantly 
improve the quality and durability of the road surface. Nine such sections 
have been built in different regions over five years. As part of such activities, 
the Company signs agreements with regional governments to expand cooperation 
in road construction. Gazprom Neft became an integrated supplier of innovative 
bitumen materials to the Republic of Tatarstan in 2016. The product line 
is formulated based on actual road construction plans in the region taking into 
account climatic conditions and road traffic intensity.
The Company is involved in the development of industrial clusters as part 
of its contribution to the scientific and industrial development of the regions. 
In particular, the Tomsk Region administration held a meeting at Gazprom Neft’s 
initiative in March 2016 concerning the development of a cluster of hard-to-
recover reserves (HTRR) as part of a project implemented by the Tomsk Innovative 
Regional Centre
The meeting participants discussed the experience gained by subsoil user 
companies and universities, outlined the main problems faced by production 
companies when integrating HTRR into development and put forward proposals 
on how to further develop this area. A list of issues was prepared based 
on the meeting for discussion by a federal working group chaired by Russian 
Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich.Dmitry Orlov
CEO of Gazpromneft – Bitumen MaterialsToday, Tatarstan is one of the leaders 
in the development of road infrastructure 
in Russia. For us, it is particularly meaningful 
that the modified binders of Gazprom Neft, 
whose quality has received high praise 
from our counterparties in the republic, were 
used in the construction of a landmark project 
for Kazan – the Millennium bridge.
Viktor Misnik
CEO of Gazpromneft-VostokThe Company has successful experience 
in applying new technologies to develop 
HTRR. But work in this area can only be taken 
to a qualitatively new level if we consolidate 
the efforts of oil companies, the regional 
and federal authorities, scientific institutions 
and equipment manufacturers.
In June 2016, the Tomsk Region government and Gazprom Neft signed 
an agreement on cooperation concerning hard-to-recover hydrocarbon reserves. 
Technologies for developing deposits containing hard-to-recover hydrocarbon 
reserves will be created and tested as part of the agreement. Cooperation 
in this area requires maximising the use of the competencies and scientific 
potential of the National Research Tomsk Polytechnic University, National Research 
Tomsk State University, the Institute of Petroleum Chemistry at the Siberian Branch 
of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Tomsk Oil and Gas Research and Design 
Institute OJSC.AN AGREEMENT ON COOPERATION
118
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Engagement with the federal, regional and local government authorities 
as well as local self-government authorities involves such tools as agreements 
on socioeconomic cooperation, joint regional development projects 
and the participation of government authorities in roundtables, forums 
and public hearings. For their part, Company employees take active part in major 
international and Russian forums as well as industry-based forums at which 
negotiations are held and decisions are made concerning the comprehensive 
development of the regions. Gazprom Neft representatives and the regional 
and municipal authorities are involved in the activities of conciliation commissions 
that resolve matters concerning the construction of new technological facilities 
in regions where indigenous peoples of northern Russia reside. As part of existing 
socioeconomic agreements, the Company provides the government with regular 
reporting on the social projects it has implemented. 
Engagement with employees aims to improve their living conditions and enhance 
their loyalty to the Company as an employer and social investor. Engagement 
takes place via the corporate media system and the implementation of social 
projects in the regions where the Company operates.
A roundtable titled ‘Pressing Issues Involving the Operation of the Petroleum 
Products Market’ was held at Omsk Oil Refinery in 2016 and turned into 
a platform for an open discussion. The meeting was attended by representatives 
of the Company, local branch and main department of the Russian Federal 
Antimonopoly Service, the St. Petersburg International Mercantile Exchange, 
the Russian Fuel Union and independent filling stations of the Siberian Federal 
District. The participants discussed the current state of the petroleum products 
market, the need to combat surrogate products and the importance of integrating 
the antimonopoly compliance system into its operational practice.A ROUNDTABLESTAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
In developing a partnership with local communities, 
Gazprom Neft actively involves their representatives 
in the implementation of social projects, which 
helps to develop human capital in the regions. 
A key component of the dialogue is an assessment 
of the Company’s social activities by local 
communities.
When evaluating the effectiveness of its social 
projects, Gazprom Neft utilises such tools 
for a dialogue with stakeholders as:
 >holding public hearings/meetings of residents 
when planning social investment programmes;
 >online voting and open competitions among 
the public as part of the implementation of social 
projects; 
 >collecting feedback on the website of the social 
investment programmes rodnyegoroda.ru ;
 >a sociological study of the opinions and views 
of the basic target audiences in the regions 
where it operates.
Gazprom Neft held the ‘Native Towns: New 
Opportunities. New Challenges. New Solutions.’ 
conference in Orenburg in 2016. The goal 
of the conference was to establish a dialogue 
between all stakeholders concerning social 
activities in the region. The conference was 
attended by representatives of the Company, 
the Orenburg Region government, municipality 
administrations, the Russian Union of Industrialists 
and Entrepreneurs, the region’s chamber 
of commerce and industry, non-profit organisations, 
charitable funds and the media. They discussed 
matters concerning interaction between business 
and the government, the role of companies 
in the region’s development, options for an effective 
partnership to develop the social capital 
of regions, the role of non-profit organisations 
and opportunities for their active involvement 
in business’s social projects.ENGAGEMENT AND AN ACTIVE DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS IS ONE 
OF THE PRIORITIES OF GAZPROM NEFT’S REGIONAL POLICY. KEY 
STAKEHOLDERS IN THE REGIONS INCLUDE COMPANY EMPLOYEES, 
THE REGIONAL AND MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES, BUSINESS PARTNERS, 
NON-PROFIT ORGANISATIONS, LOCAL RESIDENTS, INFORMAL URBAN 
COMMUNITIES, UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL 
AND SPORTS INSTITUTIONS, AND THE MEDIA.
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
119
www.gazprom-neft.comEngagement with public and non-profit organisations and associations aims 
to enhance the effectiveness of social investments and consolidate the resources 
of all stakeholders to meet regional development objectives. Gazprom Neft involves 
representatives of these organisations in the development, implementation 
and assessment of the effectiveness of its social projects, as well as public hearings. 
The Company also takes part in the activities of associations whose work fully 
or partially aims to resolve regional development issues. In particular, Gazprom Neft 
is involved in the work of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs 
and the Association of Managers.
A key objective of the dialogue with stakeholders is to increase the Company’s 
information transparency as well as expand and promote social initiatives via 
different communications channels, including the media and social networks. 
Building awareness about Gazprom Neft’s social projects among all stakeholders 
enables the Company to increase the number of potential participants in such 
projects and promptly receive feedback and an assessment of its initiatives.
In 2016, the Company created a YouTube video channel for its ‘Native Towns’ 
social investments programme and an official community on Facebook and also 
launched a mobile version of the website rodnyegoroda.ru . Gazprom Neft 
held the #Двигай  Добро contest of amateur videos on the VKontakte social 
network and launched a page for another one of the Company’s social projects – 
the ‘Drug-Free Courtyard’ mini-football tournament.
In 2016, the Company began implementing a project in close cooperation 
with stakeholders to clear historical waste from the villages of Mys Kamenny 
and Novy Port in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District. The project is being 
carried out at the Company’s own initiative to resolve environmental problems 
in the Arctic region.
Yamal was an area of intensive exploration and development during the Soviet 
and post-Soviet period, which resulted in the accumulation of a considerable 
amount of drilling waste, construction machinery and materials as well as solid 
household waste. This waste is concentrated at unauthorised dumps located 
in close proximity to the waters of Ob Bay and wooden piers near Novy Port village. 
Having dumping grounds so close to the water is a health hazard and could cause 
serious environmental damage. The waste near the piers makes it impossible 
to work on shoreline stabilisation structures for a unique underground network 
of caves built into the permafrost – the second longest of its kind in the world.ELIMINATE ‘LEGACY’ WASTE 
In order to eliminate this ‘legacy’ waste, 
the Company and the Yamal district administration 
has developed a waste management plan that 
will be implemented over several years. It includes 
the collection and transportation of waste 
and the reclamation of the cleared territory. 
The project will actively involve volunteers, including 
Gazprom Neft employees, local residents and groups 
of students. Three barges removed more than 
2,500 tonnes of scrap metal from the polluted area 
in 2016 as part of the project. Some 100 volunteers 
took part in the campaign. The project has already 
received positive feedback from local communities 
and the regional media.Yelena Feoktistova
Managing Director of the Corporate Responsibility,  
Sustainable Development and Social Entrepreneurship Office  
of the Russian  Union of Industrialists and EntrepreneursGazprom Neft actively works on business 
sustainability and efficiency. Issues 
involving the Company's activities in terms 
of its influence on human rights are being 
considered in a new way taking into account 
modern approaches in accordance 
with UN leadership. This includes wage 
levels, working conditions, safety, sufficient 
information about the quality of products, 
environmental issues and the transparency 
of business. The meeting enabled 
the stakeholders to express different 
opinions and desires, and obtain feedback 
in order to establish interaction in the region 
on a constructive basis.
120
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GAZPROM NEFT CARRIES OUT SOCIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN 
THE FRAMEWORK OF THE ‘NATIVE TOWNS’ SOCIAL INVESTMENT 
PROGRAMME. ALL OF THE COMPANY’S CORE SUBSIDIARIES 
ARE INVOLVED IN THIS WORK. WHEN SCALING INTERREGIONAL 
PROJECTS IN SPECIFIC REGIONS, THEIR CONTENT IS ADAPTED 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NEEDS OF THE LOCAL TARGET 
AUDIENCES. 
Subsidiaries annually prepare lists of projects taking into account the urgent 
objectives for regional development and the opinions of stakeholders – the local 
and regional authorities, local communities and non-profit organisations. 
This approach helps the Company achieve a high level of efficiency from its social 
investments and flexibly take into account the specific features of the regions 
and the urgent objectives for the development of the regions.
The main tools for implementing the ‘Native Towns’ programme are:
 >agreements on socioeconomic cooperation with the regional and local 
authorities;
 >the Company’s own social projects;
 >grant competitions for social initiatives;
 >corporate volunteering;
 >targeted corporate charity.
Stakeholders – local communities, employees, non-profit organisations 
and the government authorities – serve as active partners for the Company 
when establishing and implementing the portfolio of projects and programmes. 
This approach promotes growth in social activity and the competence of local 
communities in meeting regional development objectives. Key engagement tools 
include grant competitions for social initiatives, volunteer project competitions 
and the launch of platforms for local communities to create sociocultural projects.
In 2016, the ‘Native Towns’ programme encompassed 35 regions where 
the Company operates and featured 165 projects, 287 charitable and volunteer 
events and seven grant competitions. The Company’s social investments totalled 
RUB 4.1 billion.
Over its five years of existence, the ‘Native Towns’ programme has implemented 
more than 2,000 projects valued at almost RUB 19 billion.
When developing and implementing social projects, the Company conducts 
a comprehensive analysis of the sociopolitical and socioeconomic situation 
in the regions as well as the federal agenda that influences regional development. SOCIAL 
ACTIVITIES 
The assessment is based on data from independent 
studies that identify pressing problems in the social 
sector (including in the medium term). The analysis 
of the key indicators concerning the development 
of the regions and external environment enables 
the Company to forecast the development 
of the sociopolitical and socioeconomic situation 
and adjust its social activities in accordance 
with the current problems faced by a particular 
region. Gazprom Neft also conducts its own 
research to form a comprehensive picture. 
In October-November 2016, the Company carried 
out a sociological study titled ‘Opinions and views 
of the basic target audiences in the key regions 
of operations of Gazprom Neft PJSC’. The survey 
of more than 6,000 respondents measured 
the optimism level of residents in each of the regions 
and assessed their vision of the region’s 
development prospects along with their opinion 
of the Company’s role in this process.
The highest level of social optimism was seen 
in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District – 
the region with the largest share of social 
investments by Gazprom Neft. Most of the district’s 
residents know about the ‘Native Towns’ 
social investments programme and associate 
it with the Company. Another region with a major 
share of Gazprom Neft’s social investments – 
the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District-Yugra – also 
showed an increase in the social optimism indicator. 
In Omsk, where the ‘DIY City’ project laboratory 
functioned throughout 2016, the percentage 
of optimistic residents increased by 10%.The Company held grant competitions 
for social projects in six regions where it operates 
in 2016. The competition was held for the first time 
in the Tyumen Region’s Uvatsky District. A total 
of 460 applications were submitted for the programme, 
a 21% increase compared with 2015. The competition’s 
grant fund totalled RUB 24.15 million and 84 projects 
were implemented as a result.GRANT COMPETITIONS
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
121
www.gazprom-neft.comThe company regularly studies the sustainability 
of projects that have won grant competitions. 
Based on organisational, financial 
and communication criteria, projects that continue 
to be implemented in full or expand after grant 
support ends are recognised as sustainable. 
A 2016 study of the projects carried out 
by the winners of the 2013-2015 competitions 
found 98 projects (more than 78%) to be 
sustainable.
Gazprom Neft makes continuous improvements 
to its social investments system. In 2016, 
the Company drafted and approved a regulatory 
guidance document that describes approaches 
to the formation and approval of regional When scaling social programmes in the regions where it operates, 
Gazprom Neft conducts its own studies (analysis of open sources, in-depth 
interviews) that make it possible to adapt the programme in accordance 
with the needs of target audiences. In particular, a study of pressing problems 
for Khanty-Mansiysk in 2016 revealed that when launching the ‘DIY City’ project 
laboratory in the city the Company needed to focus on a corporate social 
initiative for sociocultural project planning. A special emphasis should be placed 
on expanding interaction among urban activists and traditional cultural 
institutions. In Omsk, for example, the laboratory primarily worked to solve 
problems related to the state of the urban environment based on the results 
of a study of local residents’ needs.STUDY OF TARGET AUDIENCES‘NATIVE TOWNS’ PROGRAMME
IN 201635
regions 
of operation287
charitable  
and volunteer eventsRUB 4.1  bn
Company's social 
investments
MAIN FOCUSES 
OF THE ‘NATIVE 
TOWNS’ PROGRAMMECreation of a high-quality urban environment that offers 
the same opportunities as big cities and metropolises 
and expanded prospects for the personal fulfilment of residents
Fostering a healthy generation and the establishment  
of strong regional sports
Creation of equal educational opportunities for children 
from small and big cities
Development of the cultural potential of the regions
Support for the traditional ways of life of Northern indigenous 
peoples and facilitating their integration into the modern 
economic and social landscapeA TOWN
FOR PEOPLE
FIELDS  
OF VICTORY
NEW 
HORIZONS
CULTURAL
CODE
PRESERVING 
TRADITIONS
122
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016social investment programmes called the ‘Procedure for Preparing, 
Protecting, Implementing and Monitoring the Social Investment Programmes 
of Subsidiaries’.
A key component of this work is the advanced training of specialists 
in the management of social programmes and projects. The Forum 
of Volunteers, which the Company has been hosting since 2014, holds a special 
place in a number of the training tools. In 2016, the Forum expanded its scope 
and took place in a new format – the ‘Native Towns’ Social Investment 
Forum. The Company’s experts and partners in matters concerning regional 
development and the implementation of social and charitable projects 
gathered in St. Petersburg along with the winners of the second competition 
of Gazprom Neft volunteer projects. The 180 participants in the Forum 
exchanged experience, discussed relevant problems and trends, and assessed 
the effectiveness of new social activity tools.1,800 
posts 
in social media 
on the ‘native towns’ 
programme7
projects 
implemented  
in St. Petersburg
20
projects 
implemented  
in KMAD23
projects 
implemented  
in YNAD13
projects 
implemented  
in Omsk region 8
projects 
implemented  
in Tomsk region31
projects 
implemented  
in Orenburg region2,856 
people
participants in charitable 
and volunteer projects165
total projects 
implemented 7
grant 
competitions
Moscow
Voronezh
NovorossiyskNaryan-Mar
Tarko-SaleMuravlenkoNoyabrsk
Khanty-Mansiysk
Leninsk-Kuznetsky Chita
SlavyankaKaliningrad
St. PetersburgPskov
Tver
RyazanRyazan
Rostov-na-DonuNadym
Ekaterinburg
OrenburgNovy Urengoy
Tyumen
Chelyabinsk
OmskTomsk
NovosibirskKemerovoMoscow
Voronezh
NovorossiyskNaryan-Mar
Tarko-SaleMuravlenkoNoyabrsk
Khanty-Mansiysk
Leninsk-Kuznetsky Chita
SlavyankaKaliningrad
St. PetersburgPskov
Tver
RyazanRyazan
Rostov-na-DonuNadym
Ekaterinburg
OrenburgNovy Urengoy
Tyumen
Chelyabinsk
OmskTomsk
NovosibirskKemerovo
Alexander Dybal
Gazprom Neft Deputy CEO  
for Corporate CommunicationsThanks to the ‘Native Towns’ programme, 
we are not only changing people’s lives 
for the better here and now, but also laying 
a foundation for the sustainable development 
of the regions for many years to come 
and initiating the process of continuous 
improvements in the cities. We hope that these 
social investments will lead to the qualitative 
transformation of the Russian regions.
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
123
www.gazprom-neft.comRESULTS OF SOCIOECONOMIC 
AGREEMENTS
The projects implemented by the Company 
jointly with the government in 2016 as part 
of socioeconomic agreements included initiatives 
to build and repair social infrastructure (schools, 
day care centres, sports complexes and fields, 
healthcare facilities, cultural centres and libraries, 
among other things), support public associations 
and sports clubs, and develop other social 
and environmental projects.
Projects implemented with the Company’s support 
in 2016 included the following:
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District:
 >opening of the Vyngapurovsky sports complex 
(Noyabrsk), a football stadium (Nadym), an indoor 
ice rink (Salekhard) and a pool (Tarko-Sale);
 >start of construction on two day care centres 
(Noyabrsk and Muravlenko) and a school (Tarko-
Sale), and continued construction on sports 
complexes (Labytnangi and Salekhard).
Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District-Yugra:
 >construction of a residential building 
with 120 apartments (Khanty-Mansiysk);
 >complete overhaul of a day care centre 
(Novoagansk settlement);
 >infrastructure development of an embankment 
(Russkinskaya village);
 >construction of a cultural centre (Repolovo);
 >organisation of the activities of summer 
environmental teams (Khanty-Mansiysky District).
Orenburg Region:
 >equipment for a mini children’s playground 
(Gorny village);
 >equipment for a mini children’s playground 
at a day care (Platovka village);
 >replacement of windows with plastic windows 
at a primary school (Verkhnyaya Platovka village);
 >purchase of furniture and a multimedia projector 
for Matrosov Platovka secondary school;
 >events dedicated to Victory Day;RESULTS OF SOCIAL ACTIVITIES 
IN 2016
 >construction of a medical and obstetrical station (Berdyanka village);
 >purchase of a school bus (Ivanovka village);
 >purchase of New Year’s presents for children from low-income families;
 >repair of a school’s roof (Chkalov village);
 >complete overhaul of a medical and obstetrical station building (Abramovka 
village).
Tomsk Region:
 >reconstruction of a building of Day Care No. 23 (Novovasyuganskoye rural 
settlement);
 >purchase of a bus for Novoseltsevskaya School (Parabelsky District);
 >infrastructure development of Podsolnukhi Day Care (Parabelsky District).
Tyumen Region:
 >purchase of housing accommodations (apartments, houses) with land plots 
for social sector workers in the Uvatsky Municipal District;
 >purchase of housing accommodations (apartments, houses) with land plots 
to resettle people from unsuitable (dilapidated) housing.
Omsk Region:
 >repair of schools (Yekaterininskoye village and the city of Tara);
 >repair of a day care centre (Litkovka village);
 >repair of the Sever cultural and leisure centre (Tara).
KEY PROJECTS OF THE ‘NATIVE TOWNS’ PROGRAMME
‘MULTIPLYING TALENT’ TOURNAMENT
Since 2015, Gazprom Neft has been conducting the oil and gas-themed 
‘Multiplying Talent’ tournament, which aims to enhance the appeal of engineering 
and technical professions among school students and develop their research 
skills. As part of the tournament, students solve tasks related to oil and gas 
themes and develop presentational skills. In accordance with best practices 
for social project planning, the tournament format primarily focuses on developing 
students’ ability to apply the knowledge they obtain in research activities, which 
will benefit them when they start studying at university and when building 
their careers. The tournament takes place in two stages with the final held 
in St. Petersburg where kids defend their projects in front of a panel of judges 
and take part in a quest game. In 2016, the tournament attracted 1,800 students 
(a 50% increase from 2015) and 612 teams from Moscow, St. Petersburg, Tyumen, 
Khanty-Mansiysk, Tomsk, Muravlenko, Noyabrsk, Novy Port and Mys Kamenny. 
The tournament was widely covered in the media and praised by stakeholders 
in the regions.
124
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016‘DIY CITY’ PROJECT LABORATORY
The project, which was launched in Omsk in 2015, involves creating a platform 
based on which residents together with experts, representatives of the local 
government and business launch their own projects to develop the urban 
environment. The start of the projects is preceded by an educational programme 
as part which the laboratory participants learn about methods to study a city’s 
needs and sociocultural project planning.
Mars Khasanov
Head of the Gazprom Neft Scientific and Technology CentreToday, Gazprom Neft has become one of the leading companies in Russia’s 
oil and gas industry in terms of its technological capabilities. But with field 
development becoming ever more complex with every passing year, 
the industry is in constant need of new approaches and solutions. That’s why 
we actively encourage interest among talented young students in obtaining 
an education in engineering and studying precisely those sciences essential 
to the industry. Indeed, it’s precisely these people who will, before too long, 
be managing these technical processes.
A second laboratory was put into operation in 2016 in Khanty-Mansiysk. 
In accordance with the project goals, which are adapted to a region’s relevant 
sociocultural objectives, the main work consisted of creating informal creative 
sites for young people. Local activists developed and launched two projects 
as part of the laboratory: a documentary theatre at the Yugra-Classic Concert 
and Theatre Centre, and a cultural communications centre based at Library No. 6.
The Omsk laboratory also continued working in 2016. Over two years, it has 
hosted several dozen open educational events and approximately 150 activists 
have proposed initiatives based on which nine projects have successfully been 
implemented. Two projects have been recognised as potentially sustainable 
and are being prepared to take part in the ‘Native Towns’ grant competition. 
The laboratory has become a catalyst for the development of the volunteer 
movement in Omsk. Some 150 volunteers took part in implementing projects 
in 2016.Yekaterina Goldberg
Project Laboratory Expert and Project Curator from the Strelka 
Institute for Media, Architecture and DesignFor the second year in a row, the laboratory 
is ‘discovering’ young people who on their first 
try are capable of implementing a serious 
project that can be much-needed not only 
in Omsk, but in Moscow, St. Petersburg 
and any  European city.
‘STENOGRAFFIA’ STREET ART FESTIVAL
The Company has provided support 
to the ‘Stenograffia’ street art festival since 
2015. Artists use street art (drawings on walls 
and building facades) to provide a decorative 
design for a monochrome urban environment 
in an effort to make it visually more friendly. 
Teams of artists are formed based on applications 
that participants post on the festival website 
in accordance with their wishes, logic 
and the logistics of the event. Sixty-five objets 
d'art were created in Yekaterinburg, Orenburg, 
Khanty-Mansiysk, Omsk, St. Petersburg, Noyabrsk, 
Muravlenko, Mys Kammeny and Novy Port as part 
of the festival’s ‘Visual Ecology’ theme in 2016. 
The festival featured competitions among writers, 
graffiti-battles, master classes, road-shows 
by artists and various joint promotional events. 
The ‘Stenograffia’ festival has been attended 
by hundreds of artists from Russia, CIS countries, 
Italy, Germany, Switzerland, France and Spain. 
Some of the objets d'art created in Yekaterinburg 
have ended up in prestigious international street 
art catalogues, including the Google Art Project.
150 participants 
of the ‘Diy city’ project laboratory 
in Omsk in 2016
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
125
www.gazprom-neft.comThe ‘Creative Practices’ project was launched in 2013. 
The idea of the project is based on acknowledging 
the leading role that human capital plays in shaping 
a new economy in general and creating an attractive 
and comfortable urban environment in particular. 
The programme is built on successful foreign 
experience, specifically British, where creative 
industries are supported at the government level.
A key objective of the project is to support creative 
programmes and social initiatives, exchange 
experience between active city communities 
with the involvement of leading experts and study 
the factors that have led to the development 
of creative industries in Russian cities.
‘Creative Practices’ started with the launch 
of an educational programme at Saint Petersburg 
State University at which the speakers included 
Russian and international experts and prominent 
specialists in economics, urban studies, the media THE ‘CREATIVE PRACTICES’ PROJECT 
and culture. As the programme evolved, it started including cities where Gazprom 
Neft has a presence: Omsk, Tyumen, Orenburg, Tomsk, Khanty-Mansiysk, Noyabrsk 
and Muravlenko, where studies and surveys were also conducted that revealed 
the main problems and factors for the development of creative industries. Lectures 
and master classes with themes that were relevant to the cities were conducted 
in summer and autumn 2016 based on the survey results.Brian Evans
Professor of Urbanism and Landscape at The Glasgow School of ArtSmall cities are important both for Europe and for Russia. Their problems 
are more expressed than in big cities. They must be human-oriented 
and have integrated functions. A city can only exist if it lives in the heart 
and mind of its inhabitants. We listen to people: what’s important to them, 
what they like, and we think about what can be done to make this place 
better for them. The most important thing is to find a balance between 
the amount of investment, people’s involvement in the transformation process 
and the opportunities that life in this city offers.The ‘View from the Window’ social project of the ‘Stenograffia’ festival has 
generated the biggest response from local communities. As part of the project, 
artists painted surfaces that can be seen from the windows of people whose 
only interaction with the outside world for long periods of time or permanently 
is through windows. THE ‘VIEW FROM THE WINDOW’ SOCIAL PROJECT ‘MATHEMATICAL PROGRESSION’
‘Mathematical Progression’ is a project implemented 
jointly with Saint Petersburg State University 
that aims to support basic science, generate 
interest in it and attract talented schoolchildren 
and high school students to this field. The project 
is implemented in four stages. During the first stage, 
schoolchildren from 23 regions of Russia have 
the opportunity to attend lectures by prominent 
scientists. In the second stage, second-year 
students at Saint Petersburg State University who 
demonstrate impressive results in their studies 
are given scholarships. During the third stage, 
Gazprom Neft creates conditions for the young 
scholars to gain applied mathematical knowledge 
and perform research work. The Company also 
funds research-based trips and encourages 
their academic pursuits, granting personal awards 
to mathematicians for advanced achievements 
in research activities. Prize winners become 
employees of Saint Petersburg State University’s 
Chebyshev Laboratory for a year. The fourth 
stage involves support for fundamental research 
as well as scientific and educational activities 
at Chebyshev Laboratory. In 2016, a system 
of travel grants started functioning for gifted young 
people, enabling them to attend classes at leading 
mathematical schools.Mikhail Stepanov
Head of the Traumatology Department  
at Omsk Children's Clinical Hospital No. 3There is a two-storey maintenance building below the windows 
of our department with a dreary, gloomy appearance. So we were all very 
happy when the artists turned the wall of the building into an amazing picture. 
I'm all for it because it creates positive emotions and it's attractive. This is very 
important for the kids who spend a lot of time with us and are forced to suffer 
pain every day.65 works of art 
created at the ‘Stenograffia’ street art  
festival in 2016
126
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016‘CREATIVE PRACTICES’
The programme, which was developed jointly with the Faculty of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences at Saint Petersburg State University, aims to solve regional 
socioeconomic problems with the help of creative industries. In 2016, 
the ‘Creative Practices’ programme explored the main problems and promising 
trends involved in developing a creative environment in a number of regions 
where the Company operates. Intensive educational courses were conducted 
for local specialists and activists based on the results of these practices. 
The programme speakers included Russian and international experts 
on economics, urban studies, the media and culture. The Company also launched 
a programme of international internships for specialists in the creative sector 
in 2016. The first internship took place in the UK.GAZPROM NEFT CUP
The Gazprom Neft Cup international tournament 
of children’s hockey teams is the official 
tournament of the Kontinental Hockey League 
and one of the biggest children’s hockey 
tournaments in Europe. The Gazprom Neft Cup has 
an unprecedented level of organisation for children’s 
competitions: matches are officiated by professional 
referees, games take place at ice arenas that 
are certified for KHL matches and the games 
are covered by leading sports media outlets. 
In 2016, the tenth Gazprom Neft Cup involved 
25 teams from five countries and was attended 
by 32,000 spectators. The tournament participants 
received a greeting from Russian President Vladimir 
Putin. The final matches of the Gazprom Neft Cup 
were broadcasted on KHL TV and Match TV.
In 2016, Gazprom Neft continued implementing 
a number of social projects and programmes that 
aim to improve the quality of life and broaden 
opportunities for the local communities to reach 
their potential in regions where the Company 
operates.
The ‘Creative Practices’ programme continues to function based on requests 
from the target audience of specific cities with the organisation of internships 
for local specialists, master classes and lectures as well as competitions 
for creative social projects. The winner of one such competition in 2015 was 
the ‘V-meste’ (Together) team of architects, designers and urbanists who 
put forward a programme for the transformation of the Sovremennik library 
in St. Petersburg’s Krasnogvardeysky District. Over the course of a year, 
the library was transformed into a modern creative space and an educational 
and leisure centre that hosts film lectures, master classes and creative meetings. 
The local district administration joined in the transformation of the library 
with funding for the complete overall of a library room.
The winner of the contest in 2016 was the project ’Tatyana’ – HRM-CRM – a web 
resource that helps graduates of orphanages and young people with disabilities 
address problems related to finding employment. The goal of the project 
is to link graduates who have difficulties finding work with companies that 
are ready to provide them with jobs. The web resource consolidates all 
information and interacts with candidates through the VKontakte network, 
and with employers through the ‘Rabota-i’ website.Ilya Smetanin
Director of the ‘Rabota-i’ Centre and one of the creators  
of the ‘Tatyana’ projectWhen I was first introduced to the problem, 
I realised that kids with disabilities don’t always 
have the opportunity to easily and quickly 
adapt in society when they find themselves 
one-on-one with the world of professions. 
It became clear that a system was needed 
to consolidate information about how 
the employment process works for a particular 
candidate and that the starting point shouldn’t 
be a desire to save a specific person, 
but to create conditions so that this person can 
save himself.Sergey Tikhomirov
Research Fellow at Chebyshev Laboratory and Associate ProfessorThe ‘Mathematical Progression’ project is a means of social mobility for all 
talented schoolchildren. But it’s very important that our cooperation functions 
based on the development of technologies. There needs to be a fundamental 
basic school. Technology in the modern world isn’t just changing quickly, 
but overnight! Specialists working with a narrow focus sometimes can’t 
simply readjust – they need to constantly replenish their knowledge. And in 
this regard, the more fundamental education is, the easier it is to always stay 
in shape.
Read more about the Gazprom Neft Cup 
international tournament of children’s hockey teams: 
www.gazprom-neft.com/hockey/cup/
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
127
www.gazprom-neft.comWith support for the development of infrastructure, the Company funded 
the construction of homes in remote populated areas and housing 
for indigenous peoples of northern Russia and also built and repaired social 
infrastructure.
As part of efforts to develop grassroots and professional sport, Gazprom Neft 
provided support for the ‘Courtyard Sport’ project (children’s and adult 
tournaments in mini-football, hockey, volleyball and hockey in valenki boots) 
and the ‘Drug-Free Courtyard’ project (a mini-football tournament involving 
courtyard-based teams in Novosibirsk) and hosted the Alexander Shlemenko 
mixed MMA children’s tournament in Omsk. The Avangard hockey academy, 
a Gazprom Neft project that aims to create a unified hockey training system 
for kids and young people, continued to evolve. As part of the project, 
the Company provides support for the construction and provision of equipment 
for ice arenas and stadiums in Urals and Siberian cities and villages.
In 2016, the project ‘Promoting Maritime Professions 
in the Youth Environment and Educational Support’ 
was recognised as the best in the nomination 
‘Project for Children’ as part of a competition among 
the PR services of Gazprom PJSC subsidiaries 
and organisations.
Gazprom Neft continued providing assistance 
to cultural, religious, scientific, non-profit, sports 
and educational organisations in 2016. Such 
organisations included the Russian Geographical 
Society, Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg Yacht 
Club, Russian Military Historical Society, Yamal 
Cooperation Fund, UNESCO Moscow International 
Fund, the Union of Journalists of St. Petersburg 
and the Leningrad Region, the Yamalo-Nenets 
Autonomous District Figure Skating Federation 
and the National Intellectual Development Fund 
for Support to the Research and Design Activities 
of Students, Graduate Students and Young Scientists, 
among others.Dmitry Chernyshenko
President of the Kontinental Hockey LeagueThe Gazprom Neft Cup is an integral part 
of the hockey season. We are thrilled that such 
a significant project, which enables hundreds 
of prospective kids to gain invaluable 
experience from participating in high-level 
competitions, takes place under the auspices 
of the KHL. All young hockey masters have 
something to strive for now. I am confident 
that with the right effort and commitment after 
a few years many of them will be able to play 
in the Youth Hockey League and then the KHL.
In 2016, Gazprom Neft funded the interior 
design of the dome of the Church of Saint Sava 
in Belgrade, a major Serbian architectural monument 
and one of the largest Orthodox churches 
in the world. The Company provided this assistance 
as part of a programme to support humanitarian 
projects involving culture and the preservation 
of Serbia’s historical heritage. The interior surface 
of the church’s main dome will be decorated 
with mosaic compositions covering an area 
of 1,230 square metres. The work is being managed 
by Academician of the Russian Academy of Arts 
and People's Artist of Russia Nikolay Mukhin.HUMANITARIAN PROJECT IN SERBIA Today, the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District is among the top three Russian 
regions in terms of its sports facilities. Historically, however, the situation 
in the region had been exactly the opposite despite the prevalence of a young 
population and its keen interest in sport. For this reason, building sports 
infrastructure became one of the top priorities in Gazprom Neft’s social 
activities in the region. In just a few years, the Company built 19 multifunctional 
sports fields, six sports complexes and stadiums in Muravlenko, Tarko-Sale, 
Nadym and Noyabrsk as well as a pool in Tarko-Sale as part of the ‘Courtyard 
Sport’ project. Branches of the Avangard academy appeared in Noyabrsk 
and the Purovsky District, and construction continues on the Polyarny 
sports complex in Labytnangi, the Yamal-Arena sports complex in Salekhard 
and branches of the Avangard academy in Labytnangi and Muravlenko.SPORTS INFRASTRUCTURE IN YNAD
In keeping with tradition, the Company provided support for the fourteenth 
international ‘Spirit of Fire’ film debut festival as part of its efforts to promote 
the development of the cultural potential of Russia’s regions. The geography 
of the ‘Native Town’ festival expanded to Muravlenko, Omsk and Noyabrsk in 2016. 
Over three years, the format of the festival has evolved from a leisure event to a place 
for the personal fulfilment of local residents. Educational and sports associations 
along with interactive sites were organised as part of the ‘Native Town’ festival.
In creating new educational opportunities and promoting the growth 
of the educational and scientific potential of the regions, Gazprom Neft developed 
a partnership with the country’s leading universities at which future oil and gas 
industry specialists are trained. With the Company’s support, educational 
programmes are formed and conditions are created for scientific research 
activities and manufacturing practices. Gazprom Neft devotes special attention 
to infrastructural support for educational institutions in small villages. Multimedia 
classes were launched at schools in the villages of Mys Kamenny and Novy Port 
in 2016.
Gazprom Neft has been implementing projects jointly with the Maritime Council 
under the Government of St. Petersburg since 2011 to promote maritime 
professions among young people. Such projects include specialised maritime 
classes and children’s associations with a maritime and shipbuilding focus. 
128
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016When developing field development programmes, 
Gazprom Neft and representatives of the local 
authorities hold public hearings with IPNR in order 
to take into account the population’s interests 
when building technological facilities. Special 
crossings are built over pipelines that pass through 
routes used by nomadic reindeer herds with IPNR 
representatives determining the best areas 
for construction.
Gazprom Neft has developed and introduced 
a system to compensate IPRN for damage 
associated with the implementation of hydrocarbon 
production projects. The Company concludes 
agreements with the heads of IPNR families 
under which it provides financial assistances: 
funding for traditional economic activities, 
compensation for family expenses on essential 
services, one-time payments and the supply 
of fuel and lubricants. In addition, Gazprom Neft 
helps farming communities of indigenous peoples 
that live in areas of hydrocarbon exploration 
and production, and also allocates funds 
to purchase equipment, fishing equipment, 
lubricants and construction materials. In the event 
of emergencies, the Company provides charitable 
support to the families that have been affected. 
More than 200 agreements with the heads of IPNR 
families were concluded in 2016.
Gazprom Neft works to preserve the national 
identity of IPNR, establish cultural ties between 
various communities and families, and attract 
public attention to the preservation of traditional 
crafts and trades. As part of such activities 
in 2016, the Company provided support 
for the celebration of Reindeer Herder’s Day 
in Muravlenko and the villages of Khanymey, INTERACTION 
WITH IPNR
Novy Port, Khalyasavey, Tolka and Russinskoy 
as well as Fisherman’s Day in Novy Port 
and the organisation of an ethnic day care camp 
for IPNR children.
The Company began formulating a unified 
approach to interaction between its subsidiaries 
and indigenous peoples of northern Russia 
in 2016, specifically by drafting and introducing 
regulations at subsidiaries to establish cooperation 
between IPNR. As part of this work, Gazprom Neft 
representatives are involved in a working group 
of the Association of Managers that discusses 
ways to adjust the existing regulatory and legal 
framework for interaction between industrial 
companies and the indigenous peoples 
of northern Russia, Siberia and the Far East. 
The Company is also represented in a working 
group of the Russian Union of Industrialists 
and Entrepreneurs which develops conceptual 
documents for interaction with IPNR. Gazprom Neft 
plans to formulate a Company Policy on IPNR based 
on this work over the course of 2017.A national celebration of Reindeer Herder’s Day was 
held in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District village 
of Novy Port in 2016 for the first time in 30 years. 
The event took place with support from Gazprom Neft 
as part of the ‘Native Towns’ programme. Indigenous 
residents of Yamal were able to show off their skills 
and proficiency in such national sports as wrestling, 
sled hurdling, mas-wrestling and hunting. The most 
important contest – a reindeer race – involved 
54 participants. Gazpromneft-Yamal provided 
assistance in organising the event and prepared gifts 
for the winners.REINDEER HERDER’S DAYGAZPROM NEFT ENGAGES IN PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES IN AREAS 
WHERE INDIGENOUS PEOPLES OF NORTHERN RUSSIAN 
(IPNR) RESIDE IN THE KHANTY-MANSI AND YAMALO-NENETS 
AUTONOMOUS DISTRICTS. THE COMPANY STRICTLY OBSERVES 
THE RIGHTS OF IPNR WHEN EXPLORING AND DEVELOPING FIELDS. 
>200
agreements 
with the heads of IPNR 
families were concluded 
in 2016
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
129
www.gazprom-neft.comONE OF THE KEY PRINCIPLES OF THE ‘NATIVE TOWNS’ SOCIAL 
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME IS THE ACTIVE INVOLVEMENT 
OF EMPLOYEES IN ITS PROJECTS. TO MEET THIS OBJECTIVE, 
THE COMPANY IMPLEMENTS THE ‘PERSONAL CONTRIBUTION’ 
CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING PROGRAMME AND HAS ESTABLISHED 
THE ‘NATIVE PEOPLE’ MUTUAL ASSISTANCE FUND.
The Company’s volunteer movement expanded to 38 Russian cities in 2016 
and included 2,856 people. Gazprom Neft volunteers took part in 287 events 
in 2016 with the key events being donation, support for orphanages 
and boarding schools, environmental activities as well as landscaping 
and beautification. As per tradition, volunteers engaged in sports, training 
and entertainment activities for kids from children’s homes along with helping 
disabled children and people with special needs. A number of activities were 
organised jointly with charitable funds.
In March 2016, the ‘Good Deeds with Your Own Hands’ project was launched 
jointly with the ‘Anton’s Right Here’ Centre for the Social Rehabilitation of Adults 
with Autism (‘A Way Out in St. Petersburg’ charity fund). Over the course 
of the year, volunteers and students from the Centre made souvenirs that were 
then sold at a charity Christmas auction and charity fairs in the Company’s 
offices. The auction collected more than RUB 946,000. These funds were spent 
on developing training programmes for families with autistic children.
Gazprom Neft and the Raul Charity Foundation launched the ‘Discovering the World 
Together’ project for volunteer aid to graduates of orphanages and boarding 
schools in St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region in April. As part of the project, 
volunteers contribute to the social adaptation of graduates by providing them 
consultations on matters concerning employment and everyday life.
The Company has been conducting a volunteer project contest since 2015. It brings 
together volunteer initiatives from all the Company’s subsidiaries to a single 
platform. In 2016, 75 applications were submitted for the contest (a 65% increase 
compared with 2015) with volunteers from 14 cities taking part and 30 projects 
recognised as winners. A total of 174 events were held involving 864 volunteers. 
The contest budget totalled RUB 1.5 million.CORPORATE 
VOLUNTEERING
The Company’s volunteer programme receives 
public recognition and is greatly appreciated 
by stakeholders. In 2016, Gazprom Neft won 
first place in the nomination ‘Contribution 
to the Development of Corporate Volunteering’ 
based on the results of the national ‘Champions 
of Good Deeds’ contest. In addition, experts 
from the contest offered high praise for the ‘Snow 
Assault Force’ project of Gazpromneft-Muravlenko, 
awarding it second place in the ‘Local Communities’ 
nomination. This initiative involves Company 
employees going out each year to fight snowdrifts 
at children's and social institutions of Muravlenko.
In addition, the volunteer project contest won 
the grand prize and first place in the ‘Charitable 
Project’ nomination among the public relations 
services of Gazprom PJSC subsidiary companies 
and organisations.VOLUNTEER MOVEMENT DYNAMICS
2013 2014 2015 2016
Number of events 67 188 265 287
Number of participants 1,312 1,794 2,633 2,856Mikhail Krivonos
President of Raul Charity FoundationWe are organising internships jointly 
with Gazprom Neft in which graduates 
from orphanages and boarding 
schools can work for a couple days 
and get an understanding of what work is like 
in principle. For a small amount of money, 
the kids help out with holding different 
celebrations and festivals. Volunteers observe 
them, give advice and write up assessments 
based on the results. The kids return 
to us with these assessments, and we help them 
contact employers who have vacancies.38 
Russian cities
encompassed by the Gazprom Neft 
volunteer movement in 2016
130
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016The Company’s ‘Native People’ mutual 
assistance fund was established to provide 
financial and organisational aid to members 
of the Gazprom Neft team and their loved ones 
who have found themselves in a difficult life 
situation. The fund operates based on co-financing 
principles from the Company and its employees. 
In 2016, the fund collected RUB 11 million, which 
made it possible to provide help to employees 
in need of assistance without attracting funding 
from the Company.
JOINT SOCIAL INITIATIVES
Gazprom Neft actively involves its business 
partners and customers in social initiatives. 
Each year the Company conducts the ‘Day 
of the Fisherman’ event jointly with the Kaliningrad 
fishing port for employees of the port, sailors 
and local residents. Gazprom Neft regularly 
organises charity and volunteer campaigns 
involving employees from airfields and airports 
at which the Company provides refueling. Such 
campaigns include volunteer clean-up work, visits 
to orphanages, Victory Day events and donor 
initiatives.Improve effective interaction with the authorities in Russia’s regions and hold 
at least one comprehensive meeting on the Company’s businesses;
Document the Company’s policy with respect to indigenous peoples of northern 
Russia;
Sign agreements for the import substitution of lubricants and process liquids 
with the governments of at least five Russian regions;
Sign agreements on the supply of innovative bitumen materials for Gazprom Neft 
manufacturing with the governments of at least five Russian regions;
Promote qualitative systematic transformations in the social environment, 
support and develop innovative solutions for the socioeconomic development 
of the regions and involve the government, business community, non-profit 
organisations and the local population in the transformation process;
Develop the ‘Avangard Hockey Academy’ interregional project, including 
the opening of two Academy branches in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District 
(cities of Muravlenko and Labytnangi);
Scale the ‘Native Towns’ programme to 13 of the Company’s subsidiaries;
Scale the successful social projects in the regions, including the ‘Multiplying 
Talent’ tournament and ‘Stenograffia’ festival;
Hold grant competitions for social initiatives in six regions where the Company 
operates (Omsk, Tomsk, Orenburg and Tyumen Regions, the Yamalo-Nenets 
Autonomous District and Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District-Yugra) with a grant 
fund of more than RUB 20 million and at least 85 implemented projects;
Hold a third volunteer project contest with the implementation of at least 
30 initiatives.GOALS FOR 2017 
REGIONAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
131
www.gazprom-neft.comAPPENDIX 1. CERTIFICATION OF THE REPORT 
BY THE NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING BOARD 
OF THE RUSSIAN UNION OF INDUSTRIALISTS 
AND ENTREPRENEURS
132
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI code and description of the standard disclosure Report pages/  
reference to Annual ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1.  Statement from the most senior decision-
maker in the organization about the relevance 
of sustainability to the organisation9
G4-2.  Description of key impacts, risks 
and opportunities7, 9, 14, 37, 44–47, 60–61, 
81–83, 88, 93, 115–118, 121–122
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3.  Name of the organisation 12
G4-4.  Primary brands, products and services 12–13
G4-5.  Location of the organisation’s headquarters Ul. Pochtamtskaya, 
3-5 Saint Petersburg, 190000, 
Russian Federation
G4-6.  Countries where the organisation operates 
and countries where the organisation has 
significant operations12
G4-7.  Nature of ownership and legal form 12
G4-8.  Markets served by the organisation 
(including geographic breakdown, sectors served 
and types of customers and beneficiaries)12–13
G4-9.  Scale of the organisation 12–13, 59, 115
G4-10.  Total number of employees 
by employment type, gender, employment 
contract and region59 3.1.1APPENDIX 2. 
INDEX OF STANDARD DISCLOSURES
THE REPORT, IN ACCORDANCE WITH 
VERSION G4 OF THE GRI GUIDELINES, 
PRIMARILY FOCUSES ON THE ISSUES THAT 
ARE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT FOR THE 
COMPANY AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS AND 
WHICH WERE IDENTIFIED IN THE PROCESS 
OF A MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT1. In preparing this Report, the Company was guided by the basic version 
of the Guidelines, which describes the most important components of sustainable 
development reporting. Certain indicators from the GRI Oil and Gas Sector 
Supplement (indicated in the general table by the OG code) were also used. 
In addition, the index includes the corresponding indicators of the Russian system 
for sustainable development performance results (’Basic performance indicators’ 
prepared by the RUIE for use in corporate social reports).
1 For more, see the ‘About the Report’ section.
APPENDICES
133
www.gazprom-neft.comGRI code and description of the standard disclosure Report pages/  
reference to Annual ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
G4-11. Percentage of employees covered 
by collective bargaining agreements– 3.1.4
G4-12.  The organisation's supply chain 30
G4-13.  Significant changes in the organisation’s 
size, structure or ownership during the reporting 
period12–13
G4-14.  Application of the precautionary principle The precautionary principle is the fundamental 
principle that guides the Company when planning 
and implementing its activities. For a detailed 
explanation, see: the Company’s Sustainable 
Development Report for 2010, p. 99.
G4-15.  Externally developed economic, 
environmental and social charters, principles 
or other initiatives to which the organisation 
subscribes or which it endorses1.1 At present, the Company has not formally 
joined any of these initiatives. At the same time, 
the Company is guided by the principles set forth 
in the international standard ISO 26000 (Guidance 
on Social Responsibility) and publishes reporting 
on corporate sustainability based on the Guidance 
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 
G4-16.  Memberships of associations (such 
as industry associations) and/or national 
and international advocacy organisations108, 120 The company belongs to the Union of Oil Exporters 
of Russia (SONEK), the Association of Managers 
and the Technical Association of the European 
Lubricants Industry (ATIEL).
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17.  All legal entities included 
in the organisation's consolidated financial 
statements or equivalent documentsSee the Company’s Annual Report
for 2016
G4-18.  Process for defining the report content 
and the aspect boundaries3–4
G4-19.  List of all material aspects identified 
in the process for defining report content4–5
G4-20.  Aspects within the organisation 4–5
G4-21.  Aspects outside the organisation 4–5
G4-22.  Restatements of information provided 
in previous reportsNo information restated.
G4-23.  Significant changes from previous 
reporting periods in the scope and aspect 
boundariesNo significant changes occurred.
G4-24.  List of stakeholder groups engaged 
by the organisation48
G4-25.  The basis for identification and selection 
of stakeholders with whom to engage48
G4-26.  The organisation's approach 
to stakeholder engagement48 The Company regards key stakeholders as parties 
whose interests are most discernibly related 
to its activities and which in turn can provide 
the most significant effect on the Company’s ability 
to implement its strategic goals.
G4-27.  Key topics and concerns that have 
been raised through stakeholder engagement, 
and how the organisation has responded to those 
key topics and concerns3, 49–52, 85–87, 119–120, 129
134
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016GRI code and description of the standard disclosure Report pages/  
reference to Annual ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28.  Reporting period Calendar year
G4-29.  Publication date of most recent previous 
Sustainability ReportJune 2016 
G4-30.  Reporting cycle The report is produced annually
G4-31.  Contact point for questions regarding 
the report or its contentsContact points for questions: Corporate 
Communications Unit. Legal address: 
Russian Federation, 190000, St Petersburg, 
ul. Pochtamtskaya, d. 3-5
Tel: +7 (812) 363-31-52
Fax: +7 (812) 363-31-51
bkk@gazprom-neft.ru
G4-32 . GRI content index 133–142
G4-33.  The organisation's policy and current 
practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the Sustainability Report2
GOVERNANCE
G4-34.  Governance structure of the organisation 40–41
G4-35.  Process for delegating authority 
for economic, environmental and social topics 
from the highest governance body to senior 
executives and other employees40
G4-36.  Executive-level position or positions 
with responsibility for economic, environmental 
and social topics46, 61 ,82, 117
G4-38.  Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committees41 3.1.12
G4-39.  Whether the Chair of the highest 
governance body is also an executive officerNo
G4-40.  Nomination and selection processes 
for the highest governance body and its 
committees, and the criteria used for nominating 
and selecting highest governance body membersSee the Gazprom Neft Annual 
Report for 2016
G4-41.  Processes for the highest governance 
body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 
and managedSee the Gazprom Neft Annual 
Report for 2016
G4-42.  The highest governance body’s 
and senior executives’ roles in the development, 
approval and updating of the organisation’s 
purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, 
policies and goals related to economic, 
environmental and social impactsSee the Gazprom Neft Annual 
Report for 2016
G4-44.  Evaluation of the highest governance 
body’s performance with respect to governance 
of economic, environmental and social topics41
G4-45.  The highest governance body’s 
role in the identification and management 
of economic, environmental and social impacts, 
risks and opportunitiesSee the Gazprom Neft Annual 
Report for 2016 
G4-46.  The highest governance body’s 
role in reviewing the effectiveness 
of the organisation’s risk management processes 
for economic environmental and social topics45–46
APPENDICES
135
www.gazprom-neft.comGRI code and description of the standard disclosure Report pages/  
reference to Annual ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
G4-47.  The frequency of the highest governance 
body’s review of economic, environmental 
and social impacts, risks and opportunities45–46
G4-48. The highest committee or position that 
formally reviews and approves the organisation’s 
sustainability report and ensures that all material 
Aspects are coveredChairman of the Management 
Board and CEO Gazprom Neft 
PJSC Alexander Dyukov
G4-49.  The process for communicating critical 
concerns to the highest governance bodySee the Gazprom Neft Annual 
Report for 2016
G4-50.  The nature and total number of critical 
concerns that were communicated to the highest 
governance body and the mechanism(s) used 
to address and resolve themSee the Gazprom Neft Annual 
Report for 2016
G4-51. Remuneration policies for the highest 
governance body and senior executives42 Also see the Company’s Annual Report  
for 2016, p. 140.
G4-52.  The process for determining remuneration 
for members of the highest governance body 
and senior executives42
G4-54.  The ratio of the annual total compensation 
for the organisation’s highest-paid individual 
in each country of significant operations 
to the median annual total compensation for all 
employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) 
in the same countryNot disclosed due to concerns about the protection 
of personal data
G4-55.  The ratio of percentage increase in annual 
total compensation for the organisation’s highest-
paid individual in each country of significant 
operations to the median percentage increase 
in annual total compensation for all employees 
(excluding the highest-paid individual) 
in the same countryNot disclosed due to concerns about the protection 
of personal data
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56.  The organisation’s values, principles, 
standards and norms of behaviour such as codes 
of conduct and codes of ethics12, 43, 44
G4-57.  Internal and external mechanisms 
for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 
behaviour, and matters related to organisational 
integrity, such as helplines or advice lines44, 50–52, 54
G4-58.  Internal and external mechanisms 
for reporting concerns about unethical 
or unlawful behaviour, and matters related 
to organizational integrity, such as escalation 
through line management, whistleblowing 
mechanisms, or hotlines44, 50–52, 54
136
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016MATERIAL ASPECTS 
Information about management approaches (IMA) 
and indicatorsReport pages/ reference to Annual 
ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
ECONOMIC CATEGORY
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach
G4-EC1.  Direct economic value generated 
and distributed18, 30, 63–64, 93, 121, 124 1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7Also see the Company’s Annual Report  
for 2016, p. 64-68.
G4-EC2. Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities for the organisation’s activities 
due to climate change97–98
G4-EC3.  Coverage of the organisation's defined 
benefit plan obligations63–64 1.8 The Company meets its obligations through 
deductions to the Pension Fund in accordance 
with the legislation of the Russian Federation
G4-EC4.  Financial assistance received 
from governmentThe Company did not receive any financial 
assistance from the government in the reporting 
period
MARKET PRESENCE
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 12, 14, 115–116, 121
G4-EC5.  Ratios of standard entry level wage 
by gender compared to local minimum wage 
at significant locations of operationThe salary level at the Company is consistent 
with the average level of the industry’s labour 
market.
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
G4-DMA.   12, 14, 115–116, 121
G4-EC7.  Development and impact 
of infrastructure investments and services 
supported115–116 ,118, 121–124
G4-EC8.  Significant indirect economic impacts 30, 121–124
G4-EC9.  Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers at significant locations of operation31
G4-OG1.  Volume of proven reserves 
and production18
ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY
ENERGY
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 105, 107
G4-EN3.  Energy consumption within 
the organisation106, 107 2.2
G4-EN4.  Energy consumption outside 
the organisationNot recorded due to lack of legislative 
requirements.
G4-EN5.  Energy intensity 105–109 2.2.1
G4-EN6.  Reduction of energy consumption 105–109
G4-OG3. Total amount of renewable energy 
generated by source109 Indicator partially disclosed.
G4-EN7.  Reductions in energy requirements 
of products and services105–109
APPENDICES
137
www.gazprom-neft.comInformation about management approaches (IMA) 
and indicatorsReport pages/ reference to Annual 
ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
WATER
G4-EN8.  Total water withdrawal by source 99 2.3
G4-EN9.  Water sources significantly affected 
by withdrawal of water99
G4-EN10.  Percentage and total volume of water 
recycled and reused99 2.4
BIODIVERSITY
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 81, 93–94, 104
G4-EN11.  Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 
and areas of high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas104
G4-EN12.  Description of significant impacts 
of activities, products and services on biodiversity 
in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas104
G4-EN13.  Habitats protected or restored 104
G4-EN14.  Total number of IUCN red list 
species and national conservation list species 
with habitats in areas affected by operations, 
by level of extinction risk–
EMISSIONS
G4-DMA. Disclosures on management approach 81, 93–94, 95,97
G4-EN15. Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (Scope 1)98
G4-EN16.  Energy indirect GHG emissions 
(Scope 2)98
G4-EN19.  Reduction of GHG emissions 98
G4-EN20  Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)96
G4-EN21.  NOx, SOx and other significant air 
emissions96
G4-EN22. Total water discharge by quality 
and destination99 2.7
2.7.2Indicator partially disclosed.
WASTE
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 81, 93–94, 100
G4-EN23.  Total weight of waste by type 
and disposal method101 2.8
G4-EN24.  Total number and volume of significant 
spills–
138
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Information about management approaches (IMA) 
and indicatorsReport pages/ reference to Annual 
ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
G4-EN25.  Weight of transported, imported, 
exported or treated waste deemed hazardous 
under the terms of the Basel Convention 
Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage 
of transported waste shipped internationallyThe Company does not ship, import, export 
or process waste that is regarded as hazardous 
according to the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III 
and VIII.
G4-EN26.  Identity, size, protected status 
and biodiversity value of water bodies 
and related habitats significantly affected 
by the organisation’s discharges of water 
and runoff99 Indicator partially disclosed.
G4-OG7.  Amount of drilling waste (drill mud 
and cuttings) and strategies for treatment 
and disposal100–101
COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 93–94
G4-EN29.  Monetary value of significant fines 
and total number of non-monetary sanctions 
for non-compliance with environmental laws 
and regulations94 2.10
TRANSPORT
G4-DMA. Disclosures on management approach 81, 93–94
G4-EN30.  Significant environmental impacts 
of transporting products and other goods 
and materials for the organisation’s operations 
and transporting members of the workforce102
OVERALL
G4-DMA. Disclosures on management approach 81, 93–94
G4-EN31.  Total environmental protection 
expenditures and investments by type93
ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 81, 93–94
G4-EN34.  Number of grievances 
about environmental impacts filed, addressed 
and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanisms–
SOCIAL CATEGORY
LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
Employment
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 60–61
G4-LA1.  Total number and rate of new employee 
hires and employee turnover by age group, 
gender and region59 3.1.2
3.1.3Partially disclosed: no breakdown maintained 
in centralised accounting as recommended 
by GRI G4 guidelines
APPENDICES
139
www.gazprom-neft.comInformation about management approaches (IMA) 
and indicatorsReport pages/ reference to Annual 
ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
G4-LA2.  Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees, by significant locations of operation63–64
G4-LA4.  Minimum notice period regarding 
operational changes, including whether these 
are specified in collective agreementsIn accordance with the Labour Code of the Russian 
Federation, the agreement lists the minimum notice 
periods prior to the start of the corresponding 
measures by employment agencies and the elected 
body  of the primary trade union organisation: 
no later than two months prior to the start 
of the corresponding measures, and if the decision 
to reduce the number of personnel or staff may lead 
to mass lay-offs – no later than three months prior 
to the start of the corresponding measures.
Occupational health and safety
G4-DMA. Disclosures on management approach 81–83, 88–89, 92
G4-LA6.  Type of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism 
and total number of work-related fatalities, 
by region and by gender89 3.1.5
3.1.6
3.1.7
3.1.8
G4-LA7. Workers with high incidence or high risk 
of diseases related to their occupation–
G4-LA8. Health and safety topics covered 
in formal agreements with trade unions 65, 85
Training and education
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 60–61, 66–67
G4-LA9.  Average hours of training per year per 
employee by gender and by employee category67 3.1.10
G4-LA10.  Programmes for skills management 
and lifelong learning that support the continued 
employability of employees and assist them 
in managing career endings  68–73
G4-LA11.  Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career development 
reviews by gender and by employee category73
Diversity and equal opportunity
G4-DMA. Disclosures on management approach 43
G4-LA12.  Composition of governance bodies 
and breakdown of employees per employee 
category according to gender, age group, 
minority group membership and other indicators 
of diversity 41, 59 Also see the Company’s Annual Report for 2016, 
p. 106-111.
140
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016Information about management approaches (IMA) 
and indicatorsReport pages/ reference to Annual 
ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
Equal remuneration for women and men
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 43
G4-LA13.  Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 
of women to men by employee category, 
by significant locations of operationBasic salary does not depend on the gender or age 
of employees.
Labour practices grievance mechanisms
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 50, 54
SOCIAL CATEGORY
HUMAN RIGHTS
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 43, 65
G4-HR4.  Operations and suppliers identified 
in which the right to exercise freedom 
of association and collective bargaining may be 
violated or at significant risk, and measures taken 
to support these rights 3.2.1 None identified in the reporting period
Indigenous rights
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 43, 52,  129
G4-HR8.  Total number of incidents of violations 
involving rights of indigenous peoples 
and actions taken3.2.3 No incidents of violations involving rights 
of indigenous peoples were recorded 
in the reporting period.
G4-OG9.  Operations where indigenous 
communities are present or affected by activities 
and where specific engagement strategies 
are in place 129
SOCIAL CATEGORY
SOCIETY
Local communities
G4-DMA.  Disclosures on management approach 115–118
G4-SO1.  Percentage of operations 
with implemented local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development 
programmes3.3.3 The risk of a negative environmental impact exists
in production activities. The Company implements 
action programmes to mitigate this risk.
G4-SO2.  Operations with significant actual 
and potential negative impacts on local 
communities3.3.3 The risk of a negative environmental impact exists 
in production activities. The Company implements 
action programmes to mitigate this risk.
APPENDICES
141
www.gazprom-neft.comInformation about management approaches (IMA) 
and indicatorsReport pages/ reference to Annual 
ReportRUIE indicator No. Comments
Anti-corruption
G4-SO3.  Total number and percentage 
of operations assessed for risks related 
to corruption, and the significant risks identifiedThe Company has a corporate risk management 
system that encompasses all its units 
and enterprises. Risk assessments are conducted 
regularly.
G4-SO4. Communication and training on anti-
corruption policies and procedures44
G4-SO5. Confirmed incidents of corruption 
and actions takenNo incidents involving corruption were identified 
in the reporting year.
G4-SO6. Total value of political contributions 
by country and recipient/ beneficiary–
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
G4-PR7.  Total number of incidents of non-
compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type 
of outcomesNo instances of non-compliance were recorded 
in the reporting period.
142
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016APPENDIX 3. 
DEFINITION OF KEY TERMS AND ACRONYMS
Abbreviation  Definition
Adjusted EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation minus the Company’s share in the profit / (loss) of associated 
companies and joint ventures and taking into account its share in the EBITDA of associated companies and joint ventures
APG Associated petroleum gas
CD Civil defence
CGTP Complex gas treatment plant
CIS Commonwealth of Independent States – former Soviet republics except for Estonia, Georgia, Latvia and Lithuania 
CNG Compressed natural gas
Downstream Logistics, Processing and Sales Unit
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation
EMS Energy Management System
FAR Fatal Accident Rate (the number of company/contractor fatalities per 100 000 000 hours worked)
GEW Geological exploration work
GRI Global Reporting Initiative, an international organisation whose main goal is to develop and implement an authoritative and credible 
reporting system in the area of sustainability that can be used by organisations regardless of their size, type of activity or location
GRI guidelines Internationally recognised methods for sustainability reporting developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
HSE Health, safety and environment
HTRR Hard-to-recover reserves
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IRMS Integrated Risk Management System standard
JSC Joint-stock company
KPI Key performance indicators
LPG Liquefied petroleum gas
LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency
LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Ratio (the number of cases involving the loss of work time versus the total amount of time worked 
and standardised per 1 million man-hours worked)
OE Oil equivalent
OGTU Oil and gas treatment unit
OJSC Open joint-stock company
OS Occupational safety
PBB Polymer-bitumen binders
APPENDICES
143
www.gazprom-neft.comAbbreviation  Definition
PJSC Public joint-stock company
R&D Research and development
S&A Subsidiaries and affiliates
SPE-PRMS Petroleum Resources Management System. The most commonly used system to assess hydrocarbon reserves. PRMS was developed 
by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. The system not only takes into account the ability to detect oil and gas, but also the cost-
effectiveness of hydrocarbon recovery. Reserves are assessed based on three categories: proved, probable, possible (3P)
Sustainability Considering economic, environmental and social impacts that cross a threshold in affecting the ability to meet the needs of the 
present without compromising the needs of future generations (this definition is provided by the report Our Common Future, which 
was issued by the World Commission on Environment and Development at the United Nations. Quoted from: Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines. Version 3.0., GRI, 2006).
Sustainability reporting 
(non-financial reporting)A set of systems and processes for collecting, consolidating, analysing and reporting information that demonstrates a balance 
between the financial, operational, social and environmental aspects of the Company's operations. It also includes the principles 
and mechanisms for considering the interests of a wide range of stakeholders, and managing interactions with them in order to solve 
problems that are important to the Company and society.
Upstream Exploration and Production Unit
VIOC Vertically integrated oil company
YANOS Yaroslavnefteorgsintez (Slavneft – Yaroslavnefteorgsintez, Slavneft-YANOS) – Yaroslavl Oil Refinery 
144
Gazprom Neft   >  Sustainable Development Report   > 2016CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
POSTAL ADDRESS 
 
LINK TO CONTACT INFORMATION 
ON THE COMPANY’S WEBSITE
COMPANY’S FEEDBACK PAGE  
for sending messagesCONTACT INFORMATION 
AND FEEDBACK
bkk@gazprom-neft.ru  
PJSC Gazprom Neft  
3–5 Pochtamtskaya St., St. Petersburg, Russia, 190000  
Tel. +7 (812) 363-31-52, 8 (800) 700-31-52  
Fax: +7 (812) 363-31-51, 8 (800) 700-31-51
www.gazprom-neft.com/company/contacts  
www.gazprom-neft.com/company/contacts/feedbackWE LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR FEEDBACK 
ON THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. YOUR 
ASSESSMENT OF THE INFORMATION 
DISCLOSED IN THIS REPORT WILL HELP 
THE COMPANY TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY 
OF FUTURE REPORTS AND ITS OVERALL 
PERFORMANCE.If you would like to express your opinion or ask questions, you can contact us any 
way you prefer using the contact information below.
All the questions and options the Company receives will be taken into 
consideration when preparing the next Gazprom Neft Sustainability Report. 