SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT
CONTENTS
Our approach to reporting 1
Our guiding principles 2
Our business model 4
Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board 6
Material matters 10
Working towards global goals 12
Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson 14
Environmental 18
An overview from our CEO 26
Social 28
Our Corporate Social Investment in Lesotho 36
Our stakeholder engagement 38
Q and A with our COO 42
Employees 45
Financial and operational 52
Governance and ethics 55
2021
1
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
This icon indicates additional information available 
on the Group’s website at www.gemdiamonds.com
This icon refers the reader to further information 
about the Group’s sustainability activities on the 
Group’s website at www.gemdiamonds-reports.
co.za/reports/sd-2022/index.php
This QR code refers the reader to the Group’s 
website www.gemdiamonds.com
OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES
Creating a safe and healthy 
working environmentWe promote a culture of zero harm and responsible care through effective risk 
management that prioritises our workforce.
Improving resource use 
efficienciesWe are committed to continuously working towards minimising wasteful usage of the 
resources required to conduct business. Improving resource use efficiencies through 
innovation and capital efficiency will improve the long-term sustainability of the 
organisation and protect non-renewable natural resources.
Upholding business integrity We are committed to meeting our responsibilities as an ethical and accountable 
organisation through a strong culture of corporate integrity and robust governance.
Prioritising environments 
protectionWe are committed to minimising the impact our operations have on the natural 
environment by mitigating potential environmental impacts, responsibly managing 
natural resources and rehabilitating the environment at mine closure.
Optimising socio-economic 
benefitWe believe it is our moral obligation to contribute to the sustainable socio-economic 
growth of the areas in which we operate.
Prioritising the development 
and well-being of our 
employeesWe aim to foster respectful and mutually beneficial relationships with our employees, 
by prioritising their development and well-being and the promotion of equality and 
diversity in our workforce.OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING
Our Sustainability Report concisely outlines our performance on 
our sustainability journey. We encourage our stakeholders to read 
this report with the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
and Our Approach to Climate Change Report.
 
Gem Diamonds is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
We transparently and succinctly report on our material matters, 
guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. This 
year we implemented the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in our reporting. We 
also adhere to the International Finance Corporation Environmental, 
Health and Safety (IFC EHS) Guidelines and the Equator Principles as 
well as applicable standards of the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO).SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
Our Sustainability Report covers operations managed by the 
Group in 2021. The positive and negative impacts of all material 
matters are presented in themes outlined in the material 
matters section (page 10). Each material matter could change 
our existing environmental, economic and social context.
DATA
Data in this report is based on our continuous monitoring of 
selected performance criteria, mainly using the GRI Standards, IFC 
EHS Guidelines and Equator Principles. 
Data is reported to the Group at monthly, quarterly and  
annual intervals, showing trends for three years unless the 
information is unavailable.
Although the data in this report is not independently verified,  
it was endorsed by our annual internal quality control processes 
as well as external safety, health, legal and environmental  
system audits.TERMS USED IN THIS REPORT
Gem Diamonds, the 
Group or the CompanyAll companies in the Gem 
Diamonds Group
The company/operation The relevant company (for 
example, Letšeng)
Letšeng The Letšeng mine in the 
Kingdom of Lesotho (Letšeng 
Diamonds)
Ghaghoo The Ghaghoo mine in the 
Republic of Botswana (Gem 
Diamonds Botswana)Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
2
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES
CARAT
CUT COLOURCLARITY
Purpose
Unearthing unique possibilities
The way we do things (values)
Care  – We listen and respond responsibly to the needs of our 
employees, communities and shareholders. We honour our 
commitments to all stakeholders, and we care for the natural 
environment in which we operate. 
Trust – We empower our people and trust them to make 
decisions that will deliver on our strategy.
Ethical – We have zero tolerance for bribery and corruption 
and conduct ourselves in a manner consistent with good 
governance practices. We pride ourselves on being socially and 
environmentally responsible.
Respect –  We cultivate an open and transparent culture 
where we value the beliefs, ideas and contributions of all our 
stakeholders. Everyone matters and is treated equally. We pride 
ourselves on the respect we have for all our stakeholders and the 
natural environment in which we operate.
Flexible and open-minded – We encourage and consider 
ideas from employees and project-affected communities while 
remaining responsive and agile.
Passionate and fun – We enjoy the work that we are fortunate 
to do and the people we do it with. We seek opportunities 
to explore and develop while encouraging a healthy work-life 
balance.Culture
At Gem Diamonds we invest in our workforce to create an 
environment where every person is proud to be part of our 
family. Mutual respect and care are not only shared throughout 
the Group but extend to the wider society and the natural 
environment in which we operate. Individuals are valued for their 
differences and are empowered to thrive, grow and contribute to 
a common goal, holding themselves and each other accountable 
for delivering on their promises.Vision
To support, develop and 
empower our people so that:
• a meaningful, sustainable contribution can be made  
to the countries in which we operate.
• we can deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
• our employees can benefit in the short and long term.
2021
3
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
4
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
OUTPUTS
Rough carats sold: 109 697 
Rough carats recovered: 115 335697 >10ct diamonds, contributing 71% of revenue
 21 diamonds selling for more than US$1 million, contributing 
US$64.5 million to revenueINPUTS REQUIRED
Letšeng is a long-term asset with an open pit resource base with the potential for further underground expansion. It is a low-cost operation 
with a track record of successful mine plan optimisation and cost-reduction initiatives.
• Mine lease period to 2029 with an exclusive option to renew to 2039.
• Total mineral resource of 5 million carats.
•  1 153 404 GJ of energy consumed.
•  1.15m3 water per tonne treated.
• Social and Environmental Management Plans implemented.
• Workforce of 1 671 people (including contractors) with an absenteeism rate of 4.5 days per annum per person.
•  US$0.9 million investment in COVID-19 response.
• Highly experienced global management team.
•  451 registered clients.
OUR APPROACH
• The health, wellness and development of our workforce are priorities throughout the Group.
• The Group continues to take all necessary precautions in line with its COVID-19 protocols to ensure the welfare of our employees, contractors 
and the communities in which we operate, and the continuation of safe and responsible operations.
•  Zero tolerance for harm of employees, human rights violations, bribery and corruption.
• The Group values and safeguards its social licence to operate.
Top revenue drivers:
• Resource grade performance.
• Diamond market.
• Number of large (>10ct) high-quality diamonds recovered.
• Exceptional large, high-value diamond recoveries.
• Reduction in diamond damage.
• Main versus Satellite pipe ore mix at Letšeng.Top cost drivers:
• Necessary waste stripping.
• Increasing depth of pits, longer haulage distances.
• Cost of remoteness of mines.
• Foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
• COVID-19 impact on supply chains.
• Available undrawn debt facilities US$74.3 million.
• Annual capex investment of US$4.0 million.2021
5
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED
OUTCOMES: 2021 DELIVERY
Total carbon footprint of 153 864tCO2e
Zero  major or significant environmental incidents 
8.9 million m3 of water recycled 
100% of diamond exports comply with the Kimberley Process 
Letšeng rehabilitation provision of US$11.2 millionSince inception, Gem Diamonds has worked in partnership with the Government of 
Lesotho to make a positive contribution to national priorities. We continue to support 
government’s efforts to combat COVID-19 and invest in initiatives in PACs that support 
long-term and sustainable development. 
The Sustainability Report provides a comprehensive report on environmental, social 
and governance matters.
Gem Diamonds has adopted six United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN 
SDGs) as part of our Sustainability Framework:
Zero  fatalities 
LTIFR of 0.24
AIFR of 0.93
98% of employees vaccinated against COVID-19 at 31 December 2021
Human rights training included in employee induction programme
Zero  major or significant stakeholder incidents
Supply chain controls in place to prevent child and forced labourInvested US$0.2 million in community and country COVID-19 
prevention programmes
Resettled PACs: 0
Letšeng in-country procurement: US$158.7 million
Letšeng paid royalties of US$18.0 million
Focus on cash generation and cost containment during the year
Cash generated per share 0.51 US centsBasic earnings per share (BEPS) from continuing operations  
13.2 US cents
Average price per carat achieved of US$1 835
Return on average capital employed of 27%
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
of US$57.4 million
Revenue of US$201.9 millionGem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
6
PLEASE PROVIDE AN OVERVIEW 
OF GEM DIAMONDS’ 
PERFORMANCE IN 2021 AND 
THE EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT 
AGAINST WHICH THIS 
PERFORMANCE TOOK PLACE?
For the second year running, COVID-19 cast a shadow over our 
business. While a series of different shaped lockdowns caused 
intermittent disruption to our operations, the experience 
gained during the prior year enabled the management team to 
adapt more effectively to the ongoing impact of the pandemic. 
Response protocols were refined enabling work to continue safely 
if employees became ill, a successful vaccination programme 
was implemented, and numerous risk-based adjustments were 
made to work procedures to ensure operational stability and that 
employee health was maintained.
In the area of operational safety however, we saw a 
disappointing deterioration in our performance in the first half 
of the year. The management team responded swiftly and took 
immediate action to address the situation with the result that 
in the second half we demonstrated a sharp turnaround of 
our safety performance. Globally, the pandemic has disrupted 
traditional leadership engagement and frequent isolation has 
had an adverse impact on the mental health of many, leading to 
a widespread deterioration in industry safety. The Board remains 
absolutely committed to the principle of zero-harm and is supportive of the actions taken by management to return the 
safety performance back to the long-term trend of solid year-
on-year improvement. 
Operationally, the gradual easing of COVID-19 restrictions 
contributed to enhanced production stability which was supported 
by a steady recovery in the diamond market. As a result, we were 
pleased to report an improvement in both EBITDA and cash flow 
and were also able to make progress on the sale of the Ghaghoo 
mine in Botswana. In December, we announced a new package of 
banking facilities, including our first sustainability-linked financing 
arrangement, highlighting the Group’s commitment to advancing 
its ESG agenda. 
ETHICAL CONDUCT IS A TOPICAL 
ISSUE, HOW DOES THE CULTURE 
AT GEM DIAMONDS SUPPORT 
THE COMPANY’S ETHICAL 
COMMITMENTS?
Since the Company’s establishment it has operated according to 
firm ethical principles which continue to act as the foundation of 
the business. As a Board, we believe that demonstrable adherence 
to the highest standards of ethical behaviour is pivotal to how we 
create trust with all our stakeholders. 
Our ethical principles are set out in a code of conduct that makes it 
very clear to everyone working in, and with, the business how we 
expect them to behave. We recognise that in some circumstances 
“While the risk of climate change 
has been understood for several 
decades the need for urgent global 
action to mitigate its impact has 
recently accelerated very rapidly and 
is now a top priority for all energy 
intensive businesses.”
– Harry Kenyon-Slaney –Q AND A WITH OUR CHAIRPERSON 
OF THE BOARD2021
7
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Q AND A WITH OUR CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD CONTINUED
ambiguity can arise and therefore we have developed a further 
set of statements and policies to address specific areas such as 
modern slavery, bribery and corruption, human rights abuse and 
conflicts of interest. 
During the year we refreshed and reassessed the efficacy of these 
statements and policies and reissued them across the organisation. 
Employees and contractors alike have been asked to reaffirm their 
commitment to the values that these statements espouse.
Finally, we encourage a culture of transparency and openness 
in tackling incidents of fraud or other wrongdoing. We have 
a rigorous internal audit system and an anonymous whistle-
blowing platform to enable anyone to alert us to any improper 
activity, all examples of which are immediately investigated.
WHAT RISKS CURRENTLY 
POSE THE GREATEST THREAT 
TO THE COMPANY FROM A 
SUSTAINABILITY PERSPECTIVE?
While the risk of climate change has been understood for several 
decades the need for urgent global action to mitigate its impact 
has recently accelerated very rapidly and is now a top priority 
for all energy intensive businesses. Our Letšeng mine in Lesotho 
necessarily uses a considerable amount of energy in both the 
mine and the processing plant and work is underway to identify 
every possible avenue to lower this energy intensity. The Board 
has embraced a science-based approach to tackling climate 
change and during the year adopted the TCFD framework against 
which we will endeavour to track and report the financial impact 
on our business of this existential global challenge. 
At Letšeng we process approximately 6 million tonnes of ore per 
annum and once the diamonds have been removed, we place 
this material into a tailings storage facility. Storage of this material 
clearly presents a risk but in the light of recent catastrophic 
tailings dam failures we have moved quickly to supplement our 
existing robust control systems and processes with all of the 
recommendations arising from the Global Industry Standard for 
Tailings Management.
We have a moral as well as an economic imperative to continue 
to pursue sustainable growth in our operations. The Government 
of the Kingdom of Lesotho is a 30% shareholder in the Letšeng 
mine and they expect to see economic activity continuing as far 
into the future as possible. Our relationships across government 
and wider society determine our ability to secure skills, to work 
productively and to secure our licence to operate, and as such are 
crucial in underpinning the sustainability of our business. 
These relationships have been particularly important during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, and I believe the constructive way we 
have worked with government to mitigate its impact across the 
country has built trust and served to deepen understanding of 
the contribution we make to the Lesotho economy. AS YOU MENTIONED, A 
HIGHLIGHT FOR THE YEAR WAS 
THE FORMAL ADOPTION OF 
THE TCFD FRAMEWORK. HOW 
DOES THE BOARD CONSIDER 
THE FUTURE RISKS AND 
OPPORTUNITIES RELATED TO 
CLIMATE CHANGE AND HOW 
DO YOU ENSURE THAT THEY 
ARE INTEGRATED INTO THE 
COMPANY’S STRATEGY?
Climate change is a global concern, and one that is becoming 
increasingly acute. 
We operate in a remote and pristine part of the world, and we 
have always been very sensitive to the impact that we have on 
the wider environment around our operations. Our attentions 
are firmly focused on what we can do, and how we need to 
prepare for the anticipated transition to a low-carbon economy. 
These considerations have moved to the centre of Board decision 
making.
We embrace a pragmatic approach, which is underpinned by 
scientific insight and during 2021 we conducted our first scenario 
analysis to understand the potential impact of several different 
climate-change scenarios. These scenarios will inform the 
practical actions that we can take to lower our energy and water 
usage and improve the sustainability of our business.
From a water management and a biodiversity point of view, 
we have a relatively small footprint that is well understood and 
carefully controlled. The greatest opportunity for us is in energy 
management and the focus in the short term is to both reduce 
energy consumption at all levels across the business and to 
investigate longer-term opportunities to generate power from 
renewable solar and wind sources. 
We have set up a TCFD Adoption Steering Committee which 
feeds through to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee 
and on up to the Board. This has improved communication and 
decision making around these issues. 
During the year we were very pleased to announce the 
appointment of Rosalind Kainyah MBE as an independent non-
executive director from 1 May 2021. Rosalind has been helping 
companies on their ESG improvement journeys for many years 
and brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in this field. Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
8
Q AND A WITH OUR CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD CONTINUED
FINALLY , ARE THERE ANY 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS THAT YOU 
WOULD LIKE TO SHARE?
First and foremost, I would like to thank everyone who works at 
Gem Diamonds and at the Letšeng mine for the dedication and 
resilience they have shown during a second year of COVID-related 
disruption. Employees and contractors alike have continued to 
work hard to support the business despite often considerable 
dislocation to their own and their families’ lives. 
I would like to thank our board for the diligence and commitment 
they have shown during the year and for the wisdom and insight 
they have brought, particularly to the complex sustainability 
agenda we are pursuing. I again welcome Rosalind Kainyah to 
the board and I specifically wish to thank Johnny Velloza, who 
stepped down in April 2021, for the very valuable contribution 
he made to the company in both executive and non-executive 
capacities and we are pleased he remains a strategic advisor to 
us all. I would like to thank our government partners who remain very 
supportive of our work, and who provide the regulatory and 
political frameworks that enable the Letšeng mine to operate 
safely and constructively. Finally, I would like to thank our local 
community leaders with whom we are constantly engaging to 
ensure that our social and outreach programmes are efficient, 
effective and appropriately targeted. We regard the success of 
these programmes as a central part of our sustainability efforts 
and pivotal to the creation of long-term mutual trust and respect. 
So, as 2022 unfolds, we look forward to working closely with all 
our stakeholders as we strive to continue to conduct our business 
responsibly, to provide attractive returns to shareholders and 
to contribute actively to the local communities who host our 
operations. 
2021
9
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
10
MATERIAL MATTERS
Our material matters are topics that directly or indirectly impact our ability to create or preserve economic, environmental and social value 
for our organisation, our stakeholders and society at large. Therefore, material matters include risks that must be managed and opportunities 
that could be captured to enhance the viability of the business in the short, medium and long term.
How we determine materiality 
A list of possible material matters was developed following a detailed materiality review, which considered internal and external research. 
This year we used a double materiality lens, prioritising our material matters in terms of their impact on our financial and operational 
performance as well as their impact on society, communities and the environment.
INPUTS
+
+
=Conduct a thorough 
review of the 
external 
operating context
Conduct a detailed 
review of the 
internal operating 
environment 
and business 
performance
Prioritise and verify 
identified material 
matters 
Report against our 
identified material 
matters• An online survey to rank material 
matters was circulated to the Board and 
employees across the operations• Global operating context
• Global risk registers
• Industry research
• Peer reports
• Review material risks
• Review prior material matters
• UN SDGs
• Internal documentation
• Media releases
• Financial results
• The approved matters form the 
basis of our sustainability reporting2021
11
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Our material matters
LABELS
Financial and operational
A Maintaining a strong revenue stream and 
managing costs
B Enhancing balance sheet strength
C Protecting the premium brand of 
diamonds
D Ensuring product security
E Managing and mitigating macro socio and 
economic risks
Governance and ethics
F Implementing effective Board-approved 
ESG strategies
G Prioritising business integrity
H Ensuring transparent governance and 
remuneration practices
I Ensuring legal, regulatory and governance 
excellence
J Raising standards across the pipeline
Employees
K Providing a safe working environment
L Attracting and retaining qualified people
M Providing skills development opportunities 
for employees
N Ensuring our employees remain healthy
O Engaging with employees and elected 
representativesSocial
P Safeguarding our communities
Q Ensuring positive engagement with our 
stakeholders
R Minimising our potentially negative social 
impact
S Working with communities to understand 
and meet their needs
T Supporting our communities through 
localisation to create shared value
Environment
U Managing our environmental footprints
V Managing and addressing climate change 
and extreme natural events
W Protecting biodiversity and enhancing 
conservation
X Ensuring consistent electricity supply and 
minimising energy consumption
Y Planning for mine closureMATERIAL MATTERS CONTINUEDImpact on Gem Diamonds’  financial and 
operational performance
2 3 4
Impact on society, communities and environment4
3
2A
BK
D
LCENI
XS P
T
UR
HY
VFG
W
JM OQGem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
12
WORKING TOWARDS GLOBAL GOALS
We are embedding material United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the Group’s systems and processes while 
we implement the recommendations of the TCFD to ensure we create sustainable value for our stakeholders. 
In accordance with our sustainability strategy, we have started with the following six UN SDGs, to be implemented over a three-year rolling 
cycle, as this is a manageable and achievable target with widespread impact. 
No poverty Good health and 
wellbeingClean water and 
sanitationDecent work and 
economic growthReduced 
inequalitiesResponsible 
consumption and 
production
Sustainability 
principles 
underpin our 
prioritiesUpholding 
business 
integrity Prioritising 
environmental 
protectionCreating a safe 
and healthy 
working 
environmentPrioritising the 
development and 
well-being of our 
employeesImproving 
resource use 
efficiencies Optimising 
socio-economic 
benefit
The UN SDGs 
support, 
contextualise 
and inform 
the principles 
 
   
  
   
 The interconnectedness of value creation
Across the business, we are focusing on practical and implementable measures to deliver maximum value for stakeholders. 
Three key priorities support our strategy in delivering maximum value for stakeholders:
Working responsibly and 
maintaining a social licence 
to operate 
Business integrity
Environmental stewardship
Organisational health and safety
Enhancing community benefitsPreparing for our future 
Business integrity
Environmental stewardship
Organisational health and safety
Advancing our people
Resource efficiency
Enhancing community benefitsExtracting maximum value from 
our operation 
Business integrity
Organisational health and safety
Advancing our peopleYear one Year two Year three
Perform a gap analysis to 
evaluate alignment with each 
UN SDGFocus on addressing any 
shortfalls identified in the first 
year and further strengthen 
achievementsEvaluate the success of those 
measures to ensure their 
sustainable application2021
13
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
14
Q AND A WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON
HOW WOULD YOU 
CHARACTERISE THE OVERALL 
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 
OF GEM DIAMONDS IN 2021?
2021 was marked by a slow and challenging start in several 
respects. However, this was followed by a period of solid 
performance in the second half of the year, which allowed us to 
successfully deliver on our objectives. 
Looking at safety, we recorded four LTIs in the first half of the 
year which resulted in a mine stoppage to investigate safety 
performance. Our employees and contractors brought several HR-
related issues to our attention, and the steps we took to resolve 
these issues resulted in a much-improved safety performance for 
the rest of the year. 
On the environmental side we had a successful year, with no 
major or significant events recorded. We also made good progress 
on reducing dams and tailings risks.
Our CSI initiatives were ramped up once borders opened, 
and site visits were once again viable. Gem Diamonds rebuilt 
footbridges, installed water wells and an ambulance was donated 
to service remote locations. Our overall CSI spend for 2021 was 
approximately $0.8 million, more than triple the 2020 spend.
Climate change has been an issue under discussion for several 
years and, in 2021, it became a separate agenda item under 
sustainability and was incorporated into the Company’s risk register. TCFD recommendations were adopted, and several studies were 
completed with a total budget of approximately U$0.2 million. 
AS YOU MENTIONED, THE 
GROUP ADOPTED THE 
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 
TCFD DURING THE YEAR. COULD 
YOU TALK BRIEFLY ABOUT 
THIS PROCESS AND HOW 
THE FRAMEWORK HAS BEEN 
EMBRACED FROM A LEADERSHIP 
AND GOVERNANCE PERSPECTIVE? 
We adopted the recommendations of the TCFD at the beginning 
of 2021. From the start we’ve been committed to embracing 
the principles of the framework. We aligned our climate-change 
goals within our UN SDG framework and commissioned an 
energy-efficiency study to better understand our impact in 
terms of UN SDG 12, which refers to responsible consumption 
and production. We also completed a climate-change scenario 
analysis and developed a three-year roadmap. 
Although the process is in early stages and a fair amount of work 
still needs to be done to fully understand the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities as well as agree on metrics and 
targets, the Board fully supports the recommendations and is 
committed to taking a science-based approach to understanding 
and preparing for climate change. 
“I believe Gem Diamonds managed to 
implement one of the best-managed 
COVID-19 programmes I have seen 
anywhere in the world. After we lost five 
weeks of production in 2020, we did 
not shut down the mine for COVID-19-
related reasons at all in 2021, although 
we occasionally ran shorter shifts to 
accommodate employees safely. ”
– Mike Brown –2021
15
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
COULD YOU PLEASE TALK ABOUT 
THE GROUP’S RESPONSE TO 
SAFETY DURING 2021?
Our safety performance, and our reaction to that performance, 
were defining features of 2021. We had a very challenging 
start to the year with four LTIs recorded in the first half,  
in response executive took the laudable decision to shut the 
mine. 
Executives and management held an intense series of 
engagements at the mine to identify the underlying issues. It was 
a stark reminder that organisational culture and morale directly 
affect our employees’ capacity to focus on safety. The stresses of 
the past 18 months, exacerbated by the ongoing restrictions on 
movement, created an environment in which our safety culture 
suffered. 
The stoppage, engagements and initiatives implemented proved 
successful, and we saw a much-improved safety performance 
for the remainder of 2021. Safety must be a continuous focus. 
We subsequently engaged safety experts to implement a safety 
programme, beginning with a safety-perception survey and 
identifying interventions to drive safety culture to the next level of 
maturity. This process will continue in 2022. 
2021 WAS THE SECOND YEAR 
THAT THE BUSINESS HAD TO 
DEAL WITH COVID-19. HOW 
DO YOU FEEL THE COMPANY 
ADAPTED TO THE PANDEMIC 
AND THE ASSOCIATED “NEW 
NORMAL”? 
I believe Gem Diamonds managed to implement one of the best-
managed COVID-19 programmes I have seen anywhere in the 
world. After we lost five weeks of production in 2020, we did not 
shut down the mine for COVID-19-related reasons at all in 2021, 
although we occasionally ran shorter shifts to accommodate 
employees safely. 
With the high (98%) level of vaccination and increasing recorded 
antibody levels, our workforce should be well protected against 
future infections, though we will continue to implement 
appropriate protocols. DAM SAFETY REMAINS A GLOBAL 
CONCERN. WHAT WAS DONE 
DURING THE YEAR TO ENSURE 
ENHANCED DAM SAFETY?
Our alignment with international standards is, by now, well 
established. We formed internal governance committees, 
including the Independent Tailings Review Board, led by 
John Waites, one of the world’s pre-eminent dam-safety experts. 
External independent reviews were delayed in the first half of 
the year due to travel restrictions, but took place in the second 
half and were positive. A diligent management programme is in 
place, incorporating daily inspections, monthly audits and annual 
external audits.
CAN YOU DESCRIBE ANY 
PROGRESS IN ENERGY 
OPTIMISATION AND RENEWABLE-
ENERGY PROJECTS?
Energy efficiency in the mining industry has always been an area 
of focus. We draw electricity from the South African grid and have 
struggled with grid instability since rolling blackouts first began 
in 2007. We have long been interested in renewable alternatives 
and conducted several studies as to their viability. There are 
significant physical constraints to their full-scale adoption, 
but possibilities are being explored. In 2021 we updated our 
renewable opportunities schedule and better understood the 
options available to us, which will assist in further planning. 
WHAT ARE YOUR GOALS AS THE 
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 
CHAIRPERSON FOR 2022? WHAT 
ARE YOUR FOCUS AREAS FOR THE 
YEAR AHEAD?
In terms of CSI, we have set our UN SDG goals, and plan to 
implement and maintain a CSI investment strategy. In this regard, 
informed by the Needs Analysis conducted in 2021. All subsequent 
CSI projects will need to support at least two UN SDG goals. 
Our climate change strategy will continue to be aligned with the 
UN SDGs and recommendations of the TCFD. Q AND A WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE  
CHAIRPERSON CONTINUEDGem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
16
Safety remains a priority. Each employee deserves to go home 
safely at the end of every day. Regular site visits, the safety 
maturity process and the learnings from our interventions in 2021 
will inform this focus. 
In terms of environmental initiatives, we have an opportunity 
to increase our rehabilitation programmes in suitable areas and 
build on the success of the bioremediation pilot plant with the 
construction of a full-scale plant.
ARE THERE ANY SPECIFIC THANKS 
YOU WOULD LIKE TO EXTEND?
I want to thank the Sustainability Committee for their input and 
support over the year. It is a privilege to be part of a system driven 
by passionate and competent people generating the funding available to support community initiatives. I want to reiterate 
that I think the management of the COVID-19 pandemic is the 
best I have seen anywhere to date – to have almost the entire 
workforce vaccinated and losing minimal shifts has been a world-
class achievement. 
Thank you to Danielle Kriel, our HSSE and Sustainability Manager, 
for setting the standards and ensuring we comply with world-
class measures, Brandon de Bruin and senior management - they 
ensure that those standards are effectively implemented. 
It is gratifying to be part of a company that takes governance and 
sustainability seriously. I am confident that we have the systems 
of control at Board level to enable comprehensive feedback from 
management, which is demonstrably passionate and competent 
in terms of their sustainability focus. Q AND A WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE  
CHAIRPERSON CONTINUED
2021
17
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
18
ENVIRONMENTAL
Our commitment to responsible environmental stewardship and the UN SDGs compels us to better understand and manage our impact on 
the natural environment, mitigating climate change and other environmental risks, so that we leave a positive legacy for future generations.
RELATED SUSTAINABILITY 
PRINCIPLES
Improving resource use efficiencies
Prioritising environmental protection
Optimising socio-economic benefitRELATED UN SDGs
We launched the first rolling three-year cycle to embed the UN 
SDGs into our systems, processes and decision-making during 
the year. The following UN SDGs relate to our environmental pillar:
Refer to our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 and Our 
Approach to Climate Change Report for more information 
on our approach to integrating these UN SDGs into our business 
operations.
SNAPSHOT OF OUR PERFORMANCE
In 2020, operations were suspended at Letšeng from 28 March – 26 April due to the Lesotho Government’s COVID-19 related lockdown. 
Operational activities were ramped up during May and planned waste mining activities was successfully deferred to resume in July. This 
suspension of operations explains the reduced resource consumption during 2020. For comparative purposes we have provided both 2019 
and 2020 resource consumption data.
Zero major environmental incidents  
for the 13th consecutive yearZero significant environmental 
incidents  for the 8th consecutive yearUS$0.9 million  
invested in environmental 
protection during 2021 (2020: 
US$0.5 million)
US$14.9 million  
environmental rehabilitation 
provision (2020: US$16.1 million)No fines for environmental 
transgressions  or non-compliance 
with host country legislation for 
the 12th consecutive yearICMM Global Industry Standard 
for Tailings Management  adopted 
and dam safety management 
framework implemented
Annual social and environmental 
management plan (SEMP) audit 
programme implementedISO 14001  accreditation retainedRehabilitation and closure  
management strategy adopted 
and updated
8.9 million m3 of water 
recycled. (2020: 8.8 million m3, 2019: 
7.9 million m3)Total carbon footprint of 
153 864 tCo2e (2020: 
135 694 tCo2e, 2019: 172 968 
tCo2e) US$0.2 million  
invested towards adopting the 
recommendations of the TCFD
2021
19
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR GOALS
• Understanding the long-term implications of climate change 
on our operations. 
• Identifying further opportunities to decarbonise our 
operational activities.
• Managing the effects of extreme weather on our operations.
• Reducing consumption, particularly of fossil fuels, remains a 
focus as we identify and evaluate renewable energy solutions. 
• Implement innovative waste management strategies taking 
into consideration the remote location of our operations 
and limited formal waste disposal facilities within our host 
countries. 
• Prioritising water conservation throughout the Group.
OUR FUTURE
We remain committed to environmental responsibility, including 
rigorous and ongoing monitoring of our water management, 
reducing our environmental footprint, the recommendations of 
the TCFD and upholding our commitment to the UN SDGs. 
In 2022, we will advance our TCFD roadmap to appropriately 
respond to relevant climate change-related risks and opportunities. 
We will review our operation-specific SEMPs for improved impact 
mitigation, implement our concurrent rehabilitation plan at 
Letšeng and aim to develop and implement carbon, water and 
waste management initiatives while maintaining and improving 
environmental standards. 
MATERIAL MATTERS
Managing our environmental footprints
OUR CONTEXT
We strive to responsibly manage our environmental impacts 
by measuring, monitoring and minimising our consumption, 
considering our water and carbon footprints and waste within 
our value chain. We ensure responsible consumption with the 
utmost respect for the natural resources we need.
We are working with operations to identify initiatives that reduce 
our costs, resource consumption and our carbon, energy and 
water footprints. These initiatives are predominantly focused 
on scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions, being (mobile and 
stationary fuel combustion and grid electricity) as these represent 
approximately 84% of the Group’s total carbon footprint.
In addition, we understand that responsible waste management 
plays a significant role in the sustainability of our business and 
long-term protection of our environment. Our operation, which 
mainly generates waste rock and residues from production 
processes, ensures responsible management and disposal of all 
mineral and non-mineral wastes.OUR APPROACH
Carbon
We understand that it is a global imperative to reduce our carbon 
footprint. Our goal is to reduce our carbon emissions to avoid any 
dangerous anthropogenic interference in our climate system. 
Our decarbonisation strategy considers all stakeholders and will 
be implemented in a way that maintains our goal of mining in 
a responsible manner. Letšeng operates in a country without 
wide-scale access to renewables, as such a flexible and innovative 
approach to decarbonisation is required. See managing and 
addressing climate change and extreme natural events on 
page 21 of this report for more information.
Our carbon footprint is monitored and measured bi-annually 
to develop and implement initiatives that mitigate our 
environmental impact. 
Water 
Our operations are reliant on the continuous supply of water. We 
collect rainwater in our freshwater and process water storage 
facilities for operations and consumption on site. We are mindful 
of our valuable relationship with our PACs, especially regarding 
access to sufficient potable water, food security and stakeholder 
engagements. We know that we cannot secure water resources 
for our mine without ensuring that the water requirements 
of our PACs are met. Our Group water management policy 
considers the water needs of all stakeholders. Various operational 
departments have implemented initiatives to reduce process 
water consumption, secure adequate water reserves to operate 
during potential future drought conditions and ensure stable 
access to water for PACs.
The water catchment facility below our Patiseng TSF captures 
seepage and recycles water back into our processing plants. 
This reduces the use of freshwater for processing and prevents 
nitrates, related to the use of explosives, from entering the natural 
environment. We have also created a wetland in our Qa Qa 
catchment with endemic plants that absorb nitrates and purify 
run-off during the summer months. The Group successfully 
completed its bioremediation pilot plant study during 2021, with 
plans to construct a full-scale bioremediation plant in our RTZ 
catchment during 2022. Bioremediation uses naturally occurring 
micro-organisms within the soil to absorb nitrates from water, 
refer to our case study on page 21 for more information.
Waste
We continually seek ways to improve our waste reduction 
efforts to minimise our impact on the natural environment and 
surrounding communities. Our mining operations have waste 
management plans for effective waste handling.
Non-mineral waste generated at our operations is managed in 
line with the waste hierarchy; reduce, reuse, recycle and as last 
option dispose. During 2021, we focused on reducing three main 
sources of waste – food, plastic and polystyrene waste.ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUEDGem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
20
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
To minimise food waste as much as possible, the catering and 
environmental teams identified and implemented initiatives to 
reduce the volumes of food waste. In addition, to more effectively 
manage food waste, Letšeng purchased a food shredder 
that ensures improved composting and fermentation rates 
of the waste. The compost and compost tea (a product of the 
fermentation process) is used to bolster rehabilitation trials and 
concurrent rehabilitation projects. 
The Letšeng operation also ran campaigns focused on reducing 
plastic waste, which included a total ban on bringing plastic to 
site during November. It also aligned with a national initiative 
‘Plastic Free Wednesdays’ during 2021. Staff were provided with 
reusable lunchboxes to replace single use containers for food 
storage. We continue to look at introducing sustainable initiatives 
to reduce plastic use and waste in 2022.
The operations are compliant with the Basel Convention on the 
Control of Transboundary Movement of Hazardous waste and 
ensure that relevant permits are in place when hazardous waste 
is moved from Lesotho to South Africa, as there are currently no 
hazardous waste disposal sites in Lesotho. Hazardous waste is 
then responsibly disposed of in South Africa at certified sites, who 
issue safe disposal certificates. 
Mineral waste at Letšeng is retained on site in structures 
designed for this purpose. These structures comply with Lesotho’s 
requirements and international best practice standards. Our 
non-mining operations generate small quantities of domestic 
waste. During 2021 we advanced our adoption of the ICMM 
Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management. Appropriate 
governance committees were established to oversee the 
adoption and alignment of operational practice with the 
standard, including the constitution of an internal tailings review board consisting of two world renowned tailings facility and risk 
management experts.
Operationally we continue to look at ways to minimise the mining 
and movement of mineral waste. Our steeper slope project has 
significantly reduced the mining and movement of mineral 
waste, and further opportunities in this regard are being explored. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
Carbon
At Letšeng, we have implemented numerous initiatives reducing 
our carbon emissions, such as steepening the slope of the pit walls 
to reduce waste movement and shortening our waste hauling 
distances by optimising our routes. These initiatives reduce our 
carbon emissions through reduced fuel consumption. Refer to 
page 21 for our case study on our optimised waste dumping 
strategy and to Our Approach to Climate Change Report for our 
carbon emissions performance metrics.
Water
We actively minimise freshwater use by recycling and reusing 
water on site, recovering run-off water, managing the impact and 
flow of stormwater, and economising our water consumption. 
Our stormwater management system is designed to catch and 
redirect stormwater drainage into our freshwater dam and we 
continually explore additional catchment and freshwater supply 
opportunities for the operation and its PACs. Refer to our Annual 
Report and Accounts 2021 and Our Approach to Climate Change 
Report for our water consumption performance metrics. 
Waste
Effective waste management and awareness campaigns 
continued, and a food waste shredder and an incinerator were 
installed and commissioned during the year at Letšeng to 
improve waste management. 
2021
21
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
Water is one of the most valuable natural resources and is 
expected to become increasingly constrained over time. 
Safeguarding water sources through reduced consumption 
and quality stewardship is a priority globally as well as within 
the Mokhotlong region where our Letšeng operation is based. 
Since Gem Diamonds started operating the Letšeng mine in 
2006, the operation has prioritised the stewardship of water 
through a water management plan. The operational approach 
to water management has matured over time to align with 
appropriate best practice standards and operational trends 
in water use and impact. A comprehensive water monitoring 
protocol has been implemented at Letšeng, looking at both 
water quality on-site and downstream, as well as consumption 
volumes through mining and treatment activities. 
In 2014, our Letšeng operation adopted a site-specific nitrate 
management plan. As part of this plan, the operation researched 
new water treatment technologies in collaboration with 
external subject matter experts. Working with the University 
of the Free State, bioremediation was identified as a priority 
technology for further assessment. This led to the development 
of our bioremediation nitrate treatment solution, which was 
subjected to an intensive research and review process involving 
various experts both regionally and internationally.MINIMISING OUR IMPACTS THROUGH BIOREMEDIATION
Bioremediation is a strategy that uses naturally occurring micro- 
organisms to break down chemical compounds, such as nitrate, 
into less toxic substances, such as nitrogen gas (N2). The passive 
bioremediation method of remediation is especially appealing 
as it does not produce any toxic or hazardous waste products. 
Not only does bioremediation create significantly less waste 
than alternative treatment methods, such as reverse osmosis, 
but it is also more cost efficient and not as labour intensive. 
At Letšeng, the bioremediation project is aimed at reducing 
blasting-related nitrate levels from water emanating from the 
mining operations’ facilities such as waste rock dumps and 
tailings storage facilities. During 2021, our bioremediation 
pilot plant was upgraded and re-commissioned to assess the 
denitrification efficiency of the improved technology. The 
pilot demonstrated the effectiveness of treating nitrates using 
naturally occurring micro-organisms. 
A full-scale bioremediation plant is now being designed with 
construction to commence in 2022. This plant will treat water 
seeping from the waste rock dumps, historically the water 
source with the highest levels of nitrate. The treated water will 
then be discharged from this plant, into a newly constructed 
wetland to ensure sufficient water supply for downstream users.
A key strategic objective for the Group is to continuously 
identify opportunities that unlock value within our business. 
During 2021, we focussed on continuous improvement 
opportunities to reduce mining related costs and improve 
resource use efficiencies. At Letšeng , waste hauling distance 
is a major driver of both current and future mining costs and 
fossil fuel combustion related greenhouse gas emissions. 
We identified an opportunity to reduce both mining costs 
and greenhouse gas emissions through shorter mining waste 
haulage distances. Following extensive collaboration between UNLOCKING VALUE THROUGH INNOVATION AND COLLABORATION
our environmental and mining teams, a new mine waste 
dumping plan was designed and implemented. The revised 
plan has reduced the haulage distance by 30%, resulting in 
a reduction of the associated operational costs and reduced 
diesel consumption, advancing our sustainability objectives to 
lower carbon emissions.
By working together to design innovative solutions, we are 
able to unlock shared value and drive Group goals with 
regards to maximising value, managing costs and reducing our 
environmental footprints. 
Managing and addressing climate 
change and extreme natural events
OUR CONTEXT
It is widely accepted that human influence has warmed the 
atmosphere, ocean and land, causing widespread rapid changes 
to the planet and the climate system as a whole. Human-induced 
climate change has already affected weather patterns across 
the globe. The International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
Working Group 1 predicts that the world will exceed 1.5°C global 
temperature increase within the next two decades.Our operations are located in remote areas, making them 
susceptible to more frequent extreme weather events due to 
climate change. These weather events include snowstorms, 
extreme temperatures, flash floods and drought. Understanding 
climate related risks and potential impacts is key to assess our 
organisational exposure and resilience to climate change. It also 
provides guidance to update business continuity plans and 
operational strategies to mitigate the impact of climate change 
related risks.Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
22
Historical natural events in Lesotho include hailstorms, 
snowstorms, droughts and frost days. The longest drought in over 
200 years was recorded between 1991 and 1995, which negatively 
impacted communities and the economy within Lesotho.
Lesotho frequently experiences localised floods, damaging basic 
service infrastructure in already impoverished communities, with 
75% of the Lesotho population residing in rural areas, and are 
exposed to the effects of extreme weather including extreme 
cold, snow and other precipitation events. 
OUR APPROACH
We are cognisant of the risks presented by climate change and 
its potential impact on our operations and stakeholders. This 
year, we adopted the TCFD framework and implemented its 
recommendations throughout the Group.
We view climate change through two lenses in line with the 
framework’s recommendations. Firstly, we ensure operational 
resilience and continuity in terms of the physical risks, including 
extreme weather events. Secondly, we are preparing for the 
transition to a low-carbon economy. 
Our TCFD roadmap, which will guide our implementation over 
the next three years, was approved in 2021 by the Board. 
Phase 1 (2021)
Build the foundations to support meaningful science-based 
decision-making
Phase 2 (2022)
Understand the risks we face and reflect on our organisational 
resilience
Phase 3 (2023)
Establish clear metrics and targets for monitoring and 
managing our exposure
See our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 and Our Approach to 
Climate Change Report for our detailed TCFD reporting.
During 2021 the Group undertook a climate change scenario 
analysis (CCSA) to assess which physical climate change-related 
risks will emerge at our locations over the short-, medium- and 
long-term. The CCSA was based on a mix of quantitative and 
qualitative data and information sourced from the Carbon Brief 
and World Bank climate change knowledge portal. This data and 
information informed the short-, medium- and long-term models 
developed for all locations that the Group operates in. ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
The CCSA especially focused on Letšeng, currently our only 
operating mine. It also took into consideration the life of mine of 
the operation. 
Four temperature increase scenarios were included in the 
CCSA, namely 1.4°C, 1.9°C, 3.3°C, and 6.0°C. These scenarios were 
informed by shared socio-economic pathways (SSPs). The SSPs 
were developed by climate scientists to model the greenhouse 
gas concentration trajectory, and was subsequently adopted by 
the IPCC. The 6.0°C scenario represents the current world economy 
continuing to function under the current conditions of little to no 
climate adaption or global GHG emissions reduction initiatives.
The physical weather parameters considered in the modelling 
included:
• Temperature
• Wind
• Frost days
• Heat days
• Cold waves
• Heat waves
• Precipitation events
• Drought likelihood. 
The risk to the Group, in terms of potential physical climate 
impact, was assessed considering the following aspects:
• Human health
• Water resource availability
• Energy and electricity
• Vegetation. 
The CCSA identified the following physical climate change-
related risks that could impact on the Letšeng operation:
• Temperatures will increase over the next two decades.
• The number of frost days at the operation will increase.
• The operation will, on average, experience reduced 
precipitation and more frequent severe drought periods.
• Sporadic occurrences of thunderstorms and hailstorms will 
be more extreme.
The above physical climate change-related risks will inform an 
operational exposure assessment to drive the Group adaptation 
and mitigation strategy.
The last three years have seen an acceleration of climate change-
related information and regulations. The Group has embraced 
this and is actively incorporating these into relevant climate 
change strategies and plans, such as the Letšeng climate change 
adaptation and water management plans. These updates will 
also include the specific physical climate-change related risks 
identified through the CCSA.2021
23
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
The Group has its two assets located in extreme natural 
environments, and it has been managing and responding to 
extreme natural events since 2006. The operational business 
continuity plans, disaster management plans, and all other 
operational procedures and systems are informed by the extreme 
weather already experienced at these locations. The Letšeng 
operation maintains a two-week supply of food and diesel, should 
extreme weather disrupt access and energy supply. In addition, 
our medical teams are suitably equipped with extensive training 
in high-altitude rescues and treatment under extreme conditions.
Our water management systems also consider potential natural 
events. Dams and storage facilities are managed so that there 
is excess capacity to handle a sudden influx of water without 
compromising safety. 
During 2021, the prolonged drought in Lesotho ended with 
localised flooding. Our water management strategy prioritises water 
saving, recycling and catchment efficiency initiatives to preserve 
water and ensure it is always treated as a precious resource. At the 
same time, our teams respond swiftly to assist communities during 
periods of flood and drought. The increased frequency of extreme 
flooding and prolonged drought periods illustrate the potential 
impacts of climate change at our Letšeng operation.
OUR PERFORMANCE
We adopted the TCFD recommendations and implemented 
phase one of our three phase TCFD roadmap. The implementation 
of phase one included:
• Improved climate change governance structures.
• Enhanced organisational risk processes to overtly integrate 
climate change.
• Completion of a detailed climate scenario analysis to ensure 
science-based data inform decisions.
• Appropriate training to ensure understanding of climate 
change across the business.
• A strategy process which integrates climate change 
considerations.
• Updating the climate change adaptation plan.
• Updating the stormwater management and catchment plan.Ensuring consistent electricity supply 
and minimising energy consumption
OUR CONTEXT
The consistent and stable supply of power is critical for mining 
operations. The Letšeng mining operation accounts for the vast 
majority of the Groups energy consumption, both in terms of 
fossil fuel-based energy and grid-based electricity. Therefore, 
our energy efficiency initiatives are focused on reducing the 
energy consumption profile at Letšeng. Our one direct source of 
grid electricity at the mine is grid-based electricity through the 
Lesotho national grid, which is fed through the South African 
national electricity supplier Eskom. Grid instability and rotational 
load shedding by Eskom affects the Letšeng operation as the 
electricity supply to Lesotho is cut periodically to protect the 
South African national grid. 
To ensure a consistent supply of energy to the mining operations 
and associated infrastructure, a generator-based power supply 
system is in place. The generators are operated when extreme 
weather or Eskom-related electricity cuts impact production. 
The Ghaghoo mine, which is currently on care and maintenance, 
is powered by an on-site generator as no access to grid-based 
electricity exists at that location. The Groups’ office-based 
locations are all fed through grid electricity.
OUR APPROACH
As part of the work that the Group is doing to reduce its carbon 
emissions, we have identified several opportunities relating to 
energy and electricity that will assist us as we strive to decarbonise 
the business and evaluate which opportunities are feasible for the 
Group to implement. The Group recognises the need to transition 
appropriately to energy sources that are less carbon intensive 
than the traditional fossil fuel-based energy sources that currently 
power our operations. 
During 2021, the Group assessed several energy-saving initiatives, 
specifically at Letšeng as the primary energy consumer. Our 
approach to energy saving initiatives considers both short- and 
long-term initiatives. The following initiatives were implemented 
in 2021.
By optimising heating systems , we were  
able to reduce the energy requirements for 
accommodation heating by 19%Through the implementation of technology that 
staggers energy demand related to lighting and water 
heating, we reduced the peak power demand in the 
accommodation facilities by 28%
The Letšeng operation implemented a ISO 50001 
aligned energy management system that further 
informs the operational approach to manage, track 
and protect energy  supply as well as track and 
minimise energy consumption . We reduced our waste rock hauling distances, 
resulting in a reduction of our carbon emissions 
and diesel consumption . Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
24
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
The Group commissioned independent energy advisors to 
identify opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce 
energy related emissions as a result of reduced consumption or 
cleaner energy sources. The assessment included mobile and 
stationary combustion related fossil fuel consumption and grid 
supplied electricity. 
The various studies undertaken during 2021 also identified 
a number of challenges that the Group need to consider in its 
decarbonisation assessments:
• The remaining life of open pit mine at Letšeng impacts on 
the feasibility of any capital-intensive projects.
• The mine operates in a region that is protected as a nesting 
zone for endangered vultures, as a result, wind power 
development is not possible within a 40km radius of the 
operation. 
• The location specific irradiance of the Letšeng mine indicates 
that a maximum of 5.5 hours a day is available for energy 
yield through solar PV. 
• The extreme low temperatures at Letšeng eliminates the 
possibility of Biodiesel replacing or substituting traditional 
mineral diesel due to the biodiesel thickening within the fuel 
system at low temperatures. 
• As of 2021, no renewable or alternative electricity sources 
are available to Letšeng to replace the existing grid supplied 
electricity supply.
At Ghaghoo, energy consumption has reduced since the operation 
was placed under care and maintenance in 2017 with further 
reductions in 2020 and 2021 following the reduction of our 
underground dewatering activities. One generator remains in use 
for essential services and there is a back-up generator when needed.
OUR PERFORMANCE
Frequent load shedding and extreme storm events have increased 
the use of generators at Letšeng. These energy interruptions are 
potentially damaging and costly as machinery must shutdown 
safely and not mid-use. Restarting machinery also consumes 
more power and could damage equipment. Power interruptions 
therefore pose a risk to our operations. To mitigate this risk, we 
ensure that load shedding schedules and regional weather 
predictions reports are integrated into our production planning 
to facilitate an effective change-over to generator power.
We have disclosed our carbon, energy and water footprint 
performance metrics in our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
and Our Approach to Climate Change Report. 
Planning for mine closure
OUR CONTEXT
Mining is one of the main contributors to the gross domestic product 
(GDP) of the countries in which we operate. It offers considerable 
direct and indirect employment opportunities during a mine’s 
lifespan. However, there is potential for adverse environmental and 
socio-economic impacts if mines are not managed responsibly 
during and post its lifespan. Rehabilitating environmental impact 
only is not sufficient to responsibly close a mine, and our mine 
closure plans therefore also consider the socio-economic status and 
impacts of potential mine closure on our PACs. OUR APPROACH
We take a long-term view of the land under our management, 
recognising that adverse impacts must be remediated to 
demonstrate responsible stewardship of natural resources. All our 
project life cycles focus on the rehabilitation of our mine lease 
areas, during and post life of mine. 
We follow best practice when planning mine-closure programmes. 
This is part of our responsibility to our host countries and the 
communities close to our mines. Our operations have integrated 
rehabilitation plans that are supported through concurrent 
rehabilitation and annual reassessment of rehabilitation strategies. 
This approach ensures that we meet our closure objectives 
as responsibly and efficiently as possible. We also quantify 
unforeseen mine rehabilitation and restoration costs, and make 
adequate financial provision in the Group’s financial statements.
As Letšeng is located in the extreme highlands of Lesotho, 
guidance on successful rehabilitation is scarce. Since 2012,  
a series of trials have examined different rehabilitation applications 
to test closure criteria and estimate the mine’s rehabilitation 
and closure costs. These trials replicate the rehabilitation of the 
mine’s main waste residue disposal facilities: fine tailings (slimes), 
coarse tailings and waste rock. The trials use waste rock and 
tailings reserves with minimal topsoil requirements, and examine 
vegetation rehabilitation and restoration of natural ecosystems. 
Topsoil is essential for successful vegetation and it is considered 
a critical component to the successful post-mining rehabilitation 
of the mine. 
In addition to these initiatives, several academic studies are 
underway, in collaboration with the National University of Lesotho 
and North-West University in South Africa, at Letšeng to inform 
rehabilitation and support mining strategies and techniques that 
enables concurrent rehabilitation. 
2021
25
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
Our Ghaghoo mine remains under care and maintenance.  
We continue to review its rehabilitation plans as we investigate 
restorative initiatives to reduce the end of mine life liability.
We engage with independent experts at Letšeng and 
Ghaghoo to understand the work needed to ensure safe and 
responsible end of life mine closure. The Group’s rehabilitation 
plans and resultant liability are reviewed every year. In 2021, 
the end of mine life rehabilitation provision reduced to  
US$14.9 million (2020: US$16.1 million) following improved 
concurrent rehabilitation planning. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• US$14.9 million environmental rehabilitation provision  
(2020: US$16.1 million).
• 6 174ha of land under our management (2020: 6 174ha).
• 1.95ha newly disturbed by mining operations (2020: 10.2ha).
• Total disturbed land to 776.15ha (2020: 774.2ha).
• Rehabilitation and closure plans were updated.
• Rehabilitation and revegetation trials at Letšeng are proving 
successful.
Protecting biodiversity and enhancing 
conservation
OUR CONTEXT
While mining is a significant contributor to host nations’ socio-
economic prosperity, it can also have a significant environmental 
impact. Gem Diamonds is committed to mitigating 
environmental damage, protecting biodiversity and enhancing 
conservation efforts. 
Letšeng is located in the Maluti Drakensberg Transboundary 
Park, a legally protected key biodiversity area. All potential 
biodiversity impacts of the mining activities were assessed as part 
of the SEIA process and the SEMPs include consideration for the 
management and mitigation of direct, indirect and cumulative impacts. Operational Biodiversity Management Plans have been 
developed for Letšeng and are reviewed annually, biodiversity 
monitoring is conducted every two years to inform further 
possible updates to our management plans.
OUR APPROACH
We are responsible for protecting the biodiversity of indigenous 
flora and fauna surrounding our mine. Through our closure 
planning, rehabilitation strategy and biodiversity management 
plans, we ensure biodiversity is included in our financial planning 
and long-term strategy objectives.
We collaborate extensively with our host countries, PACs, regulators, 
scientists and other industry stakeholders to implement practical 
environmental protection strategies. Ultimately, we aim to ensure 
environmental and socio-economic sustainability and prosperity 
for our host countries, PACs and business. Bioremediation is the 
cornerstone of our water quality conservation efforts and a critical 
part of our stakeholder relationships. 
Our Biodiversity risk assessments take into consideration all 
threatened, migratory and endemic species as well as regionally 
relevant ecosystem services such as rangeland, wetlands, 
grassland and water. At Letšeng, the biodiversity offset strategy 
has been implemented to mitigate mining related impacts on 
biodiversity. The offset strategy includes:
• No-go areas, protected from any development. 
• An indigenous plant garden.
• An artificial wetland construction programme. 
• Native seed propagation and rehabilitation trial programme. 
• Concurrent rehabilitation plan. 
• Grazing management plan in collaboration with subsistence 
farmers in the region. 
Our annual biodiversity monitoring found positive rangeland 
performance over the 2020-2021 period and increased biomass 
production in the mine lease area as a result of biodiversity 
initiatives. The Spiral Aloe (Aloe polyphylla) is a protected plant 
that is endemic to Lesotho and threatened to near extinction. 
Despite being declared a protected plant in Lesotho since 1938, 
their in-country numbers have been declining. 
During 2021, the Letšeng biodiversity monitoring noted a 
high density of both adult (894) and seedling (70) Spiral Aloes, 
and no indication of illegal harvesting on site. The successful 
establishment of the Spiral Aloe is indicative of the successful 
biodiversity management strategy implemented at the operation. 
In addition, the monitoring also confirmed that the mammalian 
diversity on site has remained stable for the 2015-2021 period. 
Letšeng hosts 39.5% of all mammalian species found in Lesotho. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Conservation plans updated annually.
• Biannual mammal-monitoring protocol rolled out.
• Completed a wetland rehabilitation and biodiversity offset 
project.
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
26
OVERVIEW
Against the backdrop of the ongoing pandemic, our priority in 
2021 was to continue operations safely and sustainably while 
generating a return for our shareholders and delivering on our 
community initiatives. We faced numerous challenges during the 
year, including an unusually high rainfall season that impacted 
both mining and treatment activities and a mixed safety 
performance, particularly in the first half of the year. Despite 
these headwinds, we continue to make steady progress with 
the implementation of our strategy as well as our Sustainable 
Development Goal commitments.
As an organisation, we have always subscribed to the highest 
standards, across all of our activities. While we strive for excellence 
in our operations, we have also instilled agility and accountability 
in the way we operate, allowing us to respond expeditiously to 
any emerging issues. We strive to create a competitive advantage 
through innovation, efficiencies, and ethical conduct – extracting 
maximum value from our products to benefit all stakeholders.
BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION
Pleasingly, we exceeded our business transformation target of  
$100 million in revenue, productivity and cost-saving measures 
on time. The four-year plan, launched in 2017, was successfully 
concluded this year, and lays the groundwork for our ongoing 
commitment to continuous improvement.
At an operational level, the Group will continue to realise the 
benefits from the Business Transformation programme with 
efficiencies and cost reduction initiatives that maximise cash 
flows and maintain our status as a responsible, safe and low-cost operation. We believe this focus will support our strategic 
objectives and continue to unlock value for shareholders.
COVID-19
COVID-19 continued to present challenges in 2021. Government 
enforced lockdowns significantly impacted the operations across 
our organisations and it is to the credit of all our employees and 
contractors that 2021 ended with creditable operational and 
financial results. 
I am proud of the effectiveness of our organisational response 
over the past two years, enabling us to minimise the impacts of 
the pandemic. We quickly put in place a comprehensive COVID-19 
protocol at Letšeng, that gave all stakeholders assurance of 
our dedication to keeping our people safe and operating in a 
responsible manner. In addition, we also prioritised working 
with the Government of Lesotho to safeguard our PACs from the 
impact of the pandemic.
Since the start of the pandemic, we have spent a total of  
LSL26 million on protocols and programmes within our workforce 
and neighbouring communities, highlighting our commitment 
to addressing the effects of the pandemic. Furthermore, we have 
administered a total of approximately 32 000 COVID-19 tests to 
our staff. I remain deeply impressed by, and grateful for, our teams’ 
commitment to keeping one another safe by adhering to our 
stringent COVID-19 protocols. 
A key aspect of the pandemic has been its effect on mental 
health. We have brought in mental health professionals to 
provide counselling and support to employees and their families, 
and we will continue to emphasise this aspect of our company’s 
COVID-19 response. AN OVERVIEW FROM OUR CEO
“We are committed to 
operating in an environmentally 
responsible way.”
– Clifford Elphick –2021
27
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Gratifyingly, we have, to date achieved a 99% vaccination rate 
amongst our staff. This was accomplished through a focused 
campaign with two key objectives: firstly – to highlight that it is 
our responsibility to keep ourselves and our fellow workers safe. 
Secondly – hesitation and concerns around vaccination were 
addressed directly through an evidence- and education-based 
approach, with numerous interventions put in place to inform 
and educate our teams. 
We continue to partner with the Government of the Kingdom 
of Lesotho to address COVID-19, and we are pleased to have 
donated twenty thousand doses of the Johnson & Johnson 
vaccines. While the severity of the virus appears to be abating, we 
will continue to be vigilant by remaining focused on maintaining 
stringent COVID-19 protocols and appropriate support for our 
stakeholders.
TALENT PIPELINE
We are immensely proud of the talent pipeline we have developed 
at Letšeng. When we started the Letšeng operation, we employed 
around 250 people, of whom more than half were expatriates. 
However, we have remained steadfastly committed to local 
talent development and ongoing skills transfer, recognising that 
local employment and procurement are key drivers in creating 
sustainable impact. 
Our workforce, now more than 1 500 people, is 98% local, 
reflecting the investment the Company has made in relevant 
disciplines– mining, engineering, geology, mine planning, 
accounting, finance and managerial skills among others. Since 
2016, more than 48 tertiary level scholarships have been awarded 
to talented individuals to study further and 25 previous awardees 
are now employed as part of our team.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND GLOBAL 
GOALS
We recognise the importance of understanding climate as both 
a risk and an opportunity. The Group is continuously working to 
identify how climate change impacts its operational resilience 
in the short, medium and long term; as well as understanding 
the Group’s own carbon footprint, climate impact and associated 
opportunities. In most respects, we are well prepared for this 
process. The implementation of business continuity and disaster 
management plans for both expected and extreme natural 
events is part of how we do business.
Supporting the UN SDGs remains a priority for the Group and we 
are working to integrate the recommendations of the TCFD into 
our existing UN SDG framework. In the longer term, we are aware that managing our carbon 
footprint and transitioning from carbon-based energy sources 
will have to be tackled, and that this will have an impact on our 
financial and other forms of capital. There are inevitably trade-offs 
that will have to be made. But the importance of making those 
trade-offs is clear, and our ability to do so in a way that doesn’t 
hamper our sustainability as a business is increasing rapidly as we 
bolster our skills and knowledge. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
The roll-out of our 2020 corporate social responsibility investment 
programme was delayed due to COVID-19 restrictions imposed 
on social movement and gatherings. In 2021 the Group did very 
well to not only implement delayed community projects, but to 
respond effectively to unplanned community needs as a result 
of the extreme weather conditions and localised flooding in 
the Patiseng valley. In early 2021 floods caused severe damage 
to community infrastructure, and we immediately worked to 
rebuild roads and bridges – a reminder, if any were needed, of 
the impact of climate-change-related extreme weather events on 
communities and operations. Food packages were also provided 
to isolated communities affected by both COVID-19 and extreme 
weather events.
A community Needs Analysis was undertaken, which highlighted 
several opportunities to enhance our CSI programmes to not 
only bolster the resilience of projects in the longer term but also 
to incorporate our UN SDG commitments into how we identify 
projects for investment. 
An important focus of our CSR activities, and reflective of similar 
integration throughout our business, has been on identifying 
opportunities to incorporate renewable energy and sustainable 
practices, for example through the installation of solar-powered 
boreholes and streetlights.
OUTLOOK
Our focus for 2022 is clear: to build on the work of the past few years 
to streamline our business and maximise efficiencies, ensuring our 
operations continue to run in a safe and sustainable manner, with 
well contained costs delivering consistent shareholder returns. 
We believe the overall global demand for diamonds will remain 
robust over the medium term and anticipate that the appetite for 
unique diamonds produced at Letšeng will remain firm. 
We remain committed to preserving and enhancing our social 
licence to operate by collaborating with our stakeholders, 
including government, employees and communities to develop 
appropriate solutions that deliver shareholder returns and 
improve lives. AN OVERVIEW FROM OUR CEO CONTINUEDGem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
28
SOCIAL
The Group’s purpose “Unearthing unique possibilities” , is directly underpinned by three key priorities: extracting maximum value from 
operations, preparing for our future, and working responsibly and maintaining our social licence to operate. 
Our social licence to operate depends on regular engagement with government and local communities, as well as financial and practical 
support, to address challenges with mutually beneficial and sustainable solutions. As responsible operators and social partners in our host 
countries, we endeavour to maintain healthy and constructive relationships with governments and our PACs.
As mining life is finite, we need to establish CSI projects that continue to create value in our absence.
RELATED SUSTAINABILITY 
PRINCIPLES
Prioritising environmental protection
Optimising socio-economic benefit
Prioritising the development and well-being 
of our employeesRELATED UN SDGs
We launched the first rolling three-year cycle to embed the UN 
SDGs into our systems, processes and decision-making during 
the year. The following UN SDGs relate to our social pillar:
Refer to our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 and Our 
Approach to Climate Change Report for more information 
on our approach to integrating these UN SDGs into our business 
operations.
SNAPSHOT OF OUR PERFORMANCE
US$0.2 million   
invested in COVID-19 community relief 
(2020: US$0.1 million)US$0.8 million   
invested in social projects  
(2020: US$0.3 million)
US$164.9 million   
spent on local procurement  
(2020: US$126.9 million)Zero  major or significant community incidents 
(2020: zero)
2021
29
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR GOALS
• Supporting our PACs following localised flooding in 2021 
that damaged infrastructure and washed away access roads. 
• Extending our support of existing CSI projects to ensure their 
independence and sustainability following the impact of 
COVID-19.
• Reducing costs and enhancing operational efficiencies while 
balancing the needs of our stakeholders.
• Working to implement both the 2021 CSI strategy and 
projects postponed from 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 
related lockdowns and restrictions. 
OUR FUTURE
• Strengthen our partnership with our PACs through CSI 
initiatives that support the creation of lasting mutually 
beneficial industries, through extended support.
• Enhance communication and stakeholder engagement.
• Mature our integration of UN SDGs into our corporate social 
responsibility strategy. 
MATERIAL MATTERS
Safeguarding our communities
OUR CONTEXT
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary objective 
has at all times been to operate safely and responsibly, ensuring 
the safety and health of our workforce, their families and the 
communities surrounding our operations while also supporting 
Lesotho’s national effort to curb the spread of the virus.
At Letšeng, 98% of our workforce resides in Lesotho, and therefore 
we recognise that embedding a safe and responsible workplace 
practice at Letšeng directly and indirectly benefits and protects 
vulnerable PACs. Our mining operations face daily challenges 
due to their remote locations, including extreme weather, difficult 
transport routes and limited public infrastructure. While these 
circumstances pose significant operational challenges, they can also 
impact the health and well-being of the communities surrounding 
our operations. In addition to the challenges community members 
face due to their natural and built environment, our responsibility 
as a good corporate citizen is to protect our communities against 
any potential risks posed by our mining operations and support our 
communities during times of crisis.
Our TSFs are integral in to mining operations, yet they present 
a substantial risk if not responsibly managed. In response to 
global TSF failure-events, the ICMM developed and finalised the 
GISTM for its member companies. Gem Diamonds has adopted 
the GISTM and aligned its existing TSF Code of Practice with the 
recommendations of the Standard.
OUR APPROACH
We follow a comprehensive social and environmental 
engagement programme to help us identify the need of PACs. 
The Letšeng operation has committed to investing 1% of annual 
turnover or a minimum of LSL5 million towards community 
initiatives every year. In addition, following the recovery and sale of special diamonds, those greater than 300 carats, 1% of 
the diamond’s sale value is directed to social projects. These 
commitments are included in our Mining Lease agreement with 
the Government of Lesotho. 
During 2021, Letšeng engaged an external independent party 
to conduct a needs analysis within the Mokhotlong and Thaba-
Tseka districts. The findings of the needs analysis informed the 
five-year community investment strategy, ensuring that the 
identified community needs directly inform the CSI strategy. 
COVID-19
We leverage our infectious disease management platform to help 
raise awareness about COVID-19 by engaging extensively with 
government, medical experts and communities. The goal is to 
protect our workforce and support Lesotho locally and nationally 
in minimising the impact of the pandemic. 
We continue to support the Lesotho government in its fight 
against COVID-19, and in 2021 Letšeng donated 20 000 vaccines, 
oxygen concentrators, personal protective equipment and an 
ambulance. Approximately 99% of our Letšeng workforce have 
been vaccinated.
Dam safety and integrity
Globally, the most recent dam failures are attributed to ‘upstream’ 
construction methods. Letšeng has three dams on site: the 
Patiseng TSF, the Old TSF and the freshwater Mothusi Dam – all 
constructed using ‘centre line and downstream construction 
methods, which is recognised as a safe and stable construction 
method’ . Gem Diamonds prioritises the safe and responsible 
management of its tailings and freshwater storage facilities to 
mitigate any potentially significant risk posed by these facilities. 
The Letšeng facilities undergo stringent daily, weekly and 
monthly inspections during which various factors are surveyed, 
including water level, beach length, freeboard and overall 
structural stability. Furthermore, we have implemented an 
early-warning system with continuous community training and 
awareness programmes to ensure communities’ emergency 
readiness in the unlikely event of a failure. Ensuring the integrity 
of our mining waste and freshwater storage facilities also 
safeguards our communities. We are proactive in monitoring 
dam safety in terms of our GISTM aligned Dam Safety Protocol. 
Stringent dam wall safety monitoring involves regular internal 
and external inspections and audits throughout the year. The 
findings and recommendations are reported to the sustainability 
subcommittees and the Board. For more information about our 
TSFs, please read the Gem Diamonds voluntary disclosure as part 
of the Investor Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative of the Church 
of England.
We also regularly monitor natural springs and local boreholes in  
and around our PACs. Over the years, we have seen an increase 
of E. coli bacteria from livestock fouling the community water 
sources while grazing or drinking. To assist the communities and 
mitigate the risk of bacterial infection from the E.coli, we provide 
clean potable water to local communities. SOCIAL CONTINUEDGem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
30
SOCIAL CONTINUED
Road safety
As basic transport infrastructure and road services in the region 
and communities surrounding Letšeng is inadequate, we 
regularly upgrade roads, clear snow, scatter salt on iced access 
roads and remove vehicles obstructing access to communities 
and the mine. In the event of vehicle accidents and other road 
emergencies, the Letšeng clinic and healthcare workers, which 
include advanced life support paramedics, are often the closest 
and best equipped to assist. In 2021, the clinic responded to  
13 accidents on national roads and 60 injured people from the 
public were treated in our clinic.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Zero incidents of compromised dam integrity were recorded 
in 2021 (2020: zero).
• In 2021, the Letšeng emergency team responded to 22 
emergency calls (2020: 12) from PACs of which 13 were 
motor vehicle-related (2020: 9).
Ensuring positive engagement with our 
stakeholders
OUR CONTEXT
The strength of our relationships with our stakeholders, 
particularly employees, regulators, PACs and host governments 
ensures our social licence to operate. These relationships 
depend on our effective management of ethics, labour practices, 
environmental and social responsibility, and our risk management and engagement activities with stakeholders. Our culture of care 
encourages us to engage, listen and respond responsibly to our 
stakeholders’ needs. Our decision-making is helped by regular 
stakeholder engagements, enabling us to create value for society 
at large and promote our long-term sustainability. Refer to our 
Annual Report and Accounts 2021 for more information 
about stakeholder engagement and management.
As Lesotho has high levels of unemployment, inequality and 
poverty, we have a responsibility to contribute positively and 
sustainably to the economy and to our PACs during and beyond 
life of mine. Letšeng is guided by our stakeholder engagement 
and corporate social investment strategy in this regard. For more 
information refer to our case study on community engagement 
and impact.
OUR APPROACH
Our community engagement approach is informed by 
operation-specific social and environmental impact assessments 
(SEIAs) and community needs analyses following extensive 
public participation. It is also aligned with host country 
legislation and international best practice guidelines such as the 
Equator Principles and the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social 
Sustainability.
Acknowledging our communities’ unique cultural and traditional 
context is essential, and we aim to engage transparently and 
respectfully. We achieve this by employing suitably qualified and 
2021
31
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
SOCIAL CONTINUED
At Gem Diamonds, we are committed to creating meaningful, 
and lasting change. We want to leave a positive legacy in the 
countries in which we operate through contributions to local 
economies, maximising local employment and procurement 
as well as developing sustainable CSI projects. We take an 
integrated approach on how we achieve this, understanding 
how inextricably linked the issues of sustainability, society and 
the environment are. 
While our CSI activities have focused on project affected 
communities (PACs) at our operating mine in Lesotho, where 
the need is the greatest, we also acknowledge that we are a 
part of a global community striving to address larger issues. To 
this point, we have integrated the UN SDGs into our decision-
making process, with six of the 17 UN SDGs identified as key to 
our communities and organizational objectives. 
COVID-19 has caused severe health and economic devastation 
on communities across the globe and Lesotho was no 
different. In 2020, as the crisis first unfolded and numerous 
travel and other restrictions were imposed, we shifted our 
focus to supporting our PACs and the Lesotho nation at large. 
CSI funds were allocated towards the most urgent of needs, 
including food aid and PPE provision, as well as training health 
care workers and the donations of a mobile testing lab.  
In 2021, we refocused on our longer-term CSI goals as the impact 
of COVID-19 on our operations stabilised. However, before we 
could fully return to our CSI agenda, localised flooding in the 
Mokhotlong district impacted the accessibility of seven of the 
nine villages located downstream from the mine. Roads were 
washed away and villages became inaccessible. We responded 
swiftly to support and assist our communities affected by the 
floods, and immediately started work to re-establish damaged 
infrastructure (including footbridges, access roads, water 
provision infrastructure and schools). The Group is well versed TAKING A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT
at assisting our PACs during extreme weather events, and prides 
itself on its resilience to these events both operationally and in 
assisting our communities. Our climate change related studies 
confirm the probability of increasing occurrence of extreme 
weather events that are likely to affect local communities, are 
used to inform appropriate community response plans and 
disaster management procedures. 
We recognise the importance of the well-established cultures 
and social structures in the local communities surrounding 
our operations. We therefore undertake a holistic approach 
to community engagement, informed by specific social and 
environmental impact assessments (SEIAs) and community 
need analyses. The SEIAs and community needs analysis are 
informed by extensive public participation, host country 
legislation and international best practice guidelines such as 
the World Bank Equator Principles and the International Finance 
Corporation’s Performance Standards on Environmental and 
Social Performance. 
Our community needs analysis, delayed in 2020 due to 
COVID-19 related lockdowns, was re-commissioned during 
2021. The externally facilitated needs analysis, not only 
reviewed the existing CSI projects, but also engaged directly 
with PACs to understand their immediate needs. This approach 
to understanding and prioritising the needs of our PACs directly 
informs our five-year CSI strategy, which incorporates our UN 
SDG priorities to maximise impact. 
The bisecting crisis of climate change and COVID-19, with 
numerous knock-on effects on economic growth and social 
cohesion, are expected to adversely impact our communities. 
We are committed to developing sustainable, informed 
interventions that empower our host communities and create 
real impact in their lives, long after our mine is closed. trained people. Furthermore, our operations have a stakeholder 
consultation framework to ensure regular, meaningful 
engagement. We integrate feedback from these engagements 
in our decision-making. At Letšeng, community representatives 
communicate with the CSI department as a sustainable and 
culturally effective link between PACs and the mine. Community 
representatives sit on the CSI subcommittee of the Letšeng 
Board, which meets quarterly to discuss the implementation and 
sustainability of current and planned projects.
Community engagement at Ghaghoo was downscaled when the 
mine was placed on care and maintenance in 2017. Although this 
reduced CSI project-related investment at Ghaghoo, we continue 
to support the Gope community close to the mine with potable 
water, medical care, and inclusion in regular health and safety 
campaigns.OUR PERFORMANCE
• No major or significant stakeholder incidents occurred at any 
of our operations (2020: none).
• No incidents involving any violation of the rights of the 
indigenous people on whose land the Group operates 
(2020: none).
• COVID-19-related aid and assistance provided to PACs.
• 20 000 vaccines donated to the Government of Lesotho.
• US$0.9 invested to minimise the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic in Lesotho.Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
32
SOCIAL CONTINUED
Minimising our potentially negative 
social impact
OUR CONTEXT
As our mines are in remote rural locations, we recognise 
and respect the importance of protecting the surrounding 
communities’ well-established cultures and social structures. 
We believe it is our duty to support the upliftment of these 
communities’ economic, environmental and social sustainability 
potential, promoting practices that protect human rights in every 
aspect of our operations.
OUR APPROACH
Our six identified UN SDGs are integrated into our community 
investment strategy to ensure that projects contribute to both 
local needs, and global goals. 
Our overarching impact assessments are guided by Free, Prior 
and Informed Consent (FPIC) guidelines. FPIC is a specific right 
that pertains to indigenous peoples and is recognised in the 
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples 
(UNDRIP). It allows them to give or withhold consent to a project 
that may affect them or their territories.
We align our community engagements and CSI projects with 
international best practice and sustainability principles. Our 
informed approach uses information gathered in community 
needs analyses and SEIAs. These assessments include extensive 
public participation to understand our PACs’ needs and 
concerns. The goal is to minimise adverse mining impacts while 
identifying opportunities for positive outcomes. Our SEIAs involve 
biodiversity surveys as well as studies of soil, water and air quality, 
archaeological surveys, visual and socio-economic impact 
assessments, and an extensive public participation process.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Zero incidents involving the violation of the rights of 
indigenous communities (2020: zero).
• We continued to engage with PACs through established and 
enhanced forums in a safe and responsible manner.
• Zero major or significant community grievances were 
lodged (2020: zero).Working with communities to 
understand and meet their needs
OUR CONTEXT
Lesotho is a developing country with high poverty rates. The 
three districts bordering our Letšeng mine are home to some of 
the most impoverished communities in Lesotho. The diamond 
and textile industries are the primary contributors to the country’s 
export economy. We contribute towards our host communities 
through the payment of taxes and royalties as well as our 
sustainable development investments, local employment and 
procurement practices. To ensure that our investments create 
meaningful change, we focus on authentic engagement with 
our communities to understand their needs and implement 
sustainable projects. 
OUR APPROACH
We value our mutually beneficial relationships with our PACs 
as this ensures our long-term sustainability. We comply with 
regulations and legal requirements, and go beyond legislation 
to make a meaningful impact and meet our host communities’ 
needs.
Each project in our CSI programme follows a five-year plan to 
ensure sustainability. Our CSI projects focus on education, health, 
infrastructure, the environment and enterprise development. We 
include the UN SDGs in conceptualising new CSI initiatives to 
contribute to achieving these goals. Refer to our Annual Report 
and Accounts 2021 and Our Approach to Climate Change 
Report for more information. 
We also value education, mentorship and skills transfer. Our 
scholarship programme works with the government to identify 
scarce skills, particularly in mining, engineering, emergency 
medical care, geology and finance. Since the scholarship 
programme was launched in 2006, 48 scholarships have been 
awarded to deserving young Basotho. 47 of whom have 
graduated successfully and 25 of whom are employed full-time 
at the mine.2021
33
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
SOCIAL CONTINUED
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
34
SOCIAL CONTINUED
OUR PERFORMANCE
• CSI investment of US$0.8million (2020: US$0.3 million).
• Externally led community Needs Analysis.
• The Tlokoeng and Mokhotlong egg circles were completed 
at the end of October, farmers subsequently began 
supplying eggs to the Letšeng mine.
• We provided ongoing support to our flagship dairy and 
vegetable projects when handover was delayed due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
• Since its inception, we have issued 48 scholarships and over 
100 interns have received valuable experience at Letšeng mine.
Supporting our communities through 
localisation to create shared value
OUR CONTEXT
Localisation is crucial in creating shared value for our host 
countries and communities. We therefore employ people from 
our PACs and engage with local businesses in our supply chain 
to contribute meaningfully to the well-being of our communities 
while meeting our business needs.OUR APPROACH
The Letšeng mine is a major contributor to Lesotho’s economy, 
providing jobs for more than 1 600 people and supporting socio-
economic development through focused local procurement 
initiatives.
We recruit locally and match available local skills with our 
operational requirements wherever possible. In total, 98% of our 
Group’s workforce are citizens of our host countries.
We also ensure that our goods and services are purchased from 
local suppliers who comply with necessary standards, and we 
help these entrepreneurs develop their businesses.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• 98% of Letšeng’s workforce comprises Lesotho nationals 
(2020: 98%).
• Group in-country procurement was US$164.9 million  
(2020: US$126.9 million) of which US$3.4 million was 
procured directly from PACs (2020: US$2.2 million) and 
US$31.4 million (2020: US$27.4 million) from communities 
around Letšeng.
2021
35
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
36
Health Care Education2009 - Medical equipment donated to the Seboche 
Hospital 
2013 - 2015 - Basic health care facilities constructed 
and equipped in Mokhotlong 
2015 - 260 Health care workers trained to provide basic 
health services in Mokhotlong 
2015 - 350 Medical care kits donated to eight health 
care centres in Mokhotlong 
2016 - Maternity ward equipment donated to the 
Seboche Hospital
2016 - Medical equipment donated to the  
Mokhotlong Hospital 
2021 - 17 Oxygen concentrators and a fully equipped 
ambulance donated to the Lesotho Department  
of Health
2007 - 2021 - 48 Tertiary Education Scholarships granted
2010 & 2011 - School uniforms and stationery donated to orphanages in Mapholaneng 
2012 - Four classrooms, school administrative offices and a school kitchen constructed and equipped at the Pae la itlhatsoa  
Primary School 
2016 - Sanitation provision and renovation for the St Peters, St Michaels, Molumong and Mokhotlong LEC Primary Schools
2016 - 2018 - Mountain search and rescue training for Herd Boys in Mokhotlong 
2016 - 2018 - Kick4Life sport and education sponsorship for primary school students in Mokhotlong
2016 - 2018 - Life skills training and development for Herd Boys and primary school students in Mokhotlong 
2018 - Water and sanitation infrastructure provision for the Mojakisane Primary School 
2019 - Four classrooms and school administrative offices constructed and equipped for the Tsepong Primary School
2021 - Water and sanitation infrastructure development at Primary Schools within Mokhotlong
COVID-192020 - Donated mobile COVID-19 testing infrastructure 
to the Lesotho Department of Health. Provided personal 
protection equipment, health care worker training and 
food parcels to at risk communities 
2021 - Donated 20 000 COVID-19 vaccines to the 
Lesotho Department of Health. Provided personal 
protection equipment, health care worker training and 
food parcels to at risk communities 
OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT 
IN LESOTHO2021
37
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT IN LESOTHO CONTINUED
Regional Support Infrastructure2007 - Maloraneng Lodge and Mapoka Campsite 
constructed
2008 - Mapholaneng Community Hall constructed
2009 - Mapoka Footbridge constructed
2010 - Water and sanitation provision for the 
Phuthalichaba Village 
2014 - Water and sanitation provision for the Maloraneng 
and Ha Seema Villages
2018 - Pae la itlhatsoa Footbridge constructed 
2018 - Phutalichaba Police station constructed
2019 - Regional administrative offices constructed in Pae 
la itlhatsoa
2021 - Solar lighting provision in the Phutalichaba village
2006 - 2021 - Regional road accident response, medical treatment and emergency evacuation through the Letšeng clinic 
2011 - Food security and livelihood programme in Khubelu 
2016 - Housing vulnerable community members during extreme weather events 
2016 - 2021 - Community health intervention and awareness programmes 
2021 - Basic infrastructure rebuild following localised flooding, including water provision, access roads and footbridges
Enterprise
Development2011-2014 - Four woolsheds constructed and equipped 
in Thabang, Mapholaneng, Libibing and Malefiloane. Ram 
breeding project established and farmer training and 
skills development programme developed 
2014-2016 - Six greenhouses constructed and 
equipped in Botha Bothe. Commercial vegetable farming 
programme established, in collaboration with the Malere 
and Nkhaketse agricultural projects, which included 
farmer training, skills development and the provision of 
seedlings and equipment
2016-2018 - Liphamola Dairy Project commissioned, 
including the construction and equipping of a milking 
parlour, purchase of dairy cows and training and skills 
development for dairy farmers  
2021 - Construction and equipping of the Tlokoeng and 
Mokhotlong egg circles and establishment of a skills 
development programme 
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
38
OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our relationships and transparent and regular engagement with our 
stakeholders supports improves decision-making, promotes sustainability 
and ensures Gem Diamonds’ positive contribution to society.
STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT
Gem Diamonds’ strong relationships with stakeholders, particularly employees, regulators, communities and society, underpins the Group’s 
social licence to operate. The relationships built and information obtained through regular engagements with these stakeholders, provides 
relevant input for decision-making, promotes the long-term sustainability of the Group and enables our contribution to wider society. 
The Board is responsible for stakeholder engagement and relevant stakeholder views and strategic issues are regularly reviewed, clearly 
understood and underpin the work of the Board. We consider the views of stakeholders when making decisions regarding strategy, 
sustainability, remuneration, CSI and other relevant matters.
Our stakeholder engagement strategy guides interactions with stakeholders. Various engagement channels are utilised, which include: 
Electronic channels Written communication Direct interaction Media
• Company website.
• Virtual meetings.
• Email and SMS. 
communications.
• Electronic tender platform.
• Sustainability platform.• Annual Report and 
Accounts.
• Sustainability Report.
• TCFD Report.
• Quarterly and interim 
results statements and 
presentations.
• Newsletters.• In-person meetings.
• AGMs.
• Investor roadshows.
• Results presentations.
• Industry conferences.
• Tenders.
• Informal interaction.
• Independent analysis of 
community needs. 
• Community representative 
meetings. 
• Corporate Social 
Responsibility Investment 
(CSRI) Committee 
meetings.• Press releases.
• Interviews.
• Media briefings.
The effectiveness of stakeholder engagement in the Group is included in the annual Board evaluation process and personal performance 
objectives (that determine short-term incentive bonuses) for Executive Directors include a weighting for strengthening key stakeholder 
relationships.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Shareholders
Our shareholders include institutional shareholders (63% of shares) and private shareholders (37% of shares). Shareholders are the owners 
of the Group, and the Board is ultimately accountable to them for performance. Gem Diamonds’ strategy aims to maximise shareholder 
value in a sustainable manner. Shareholders represent a potential source of funding for future expansion opportunities. 
The Chairperson, Senior Independent Director and Executive Directors engage regularly with shareholders at requested meetings, during 
roadshows to larger investors and at the AGM, which is attended by all Directors. The investor relations function is the responsibility of 
the Chief Legal and Commercial Officer. Feedback from these meetings is reported back to the Board at the Board meetings. 
Shareholder interests include: 
• Growth opportunities.
• Sustainable returns and capital allocation.
• Cash flow generation and balance sheet strength.
• Corporate governance and ethics.
• ESG considerations including climate change and tailings facility management. 
• Responsible environmental and social practices.
• Fair executive remuneration practices.2021
39
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED
ENGAGEMENTS POST THE AGM 
At the Group AGM in June, Resolution 14 (Authority to allot 
shares) passed with 71.99% of participating shareholders 
voting in favour, while Resolution 15 (The disapplication of pre-
emption rights) and Resolution 16 (The further disapplication 
of pre-emption rights) did not pass with the proportion of 
votes against these resolutions exceeding 20%. 
The Board is disappointed in the outcome of these votes 
given that these resolutions followed the provisions of the Pre-
Emption Group’s Statement of Principles for the disapplication 
of pre-emption rights and reflected UK listed company market 
practice. In accordance with Provision 4 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Company engaged with the significant 
shareholder who voted against these resolutions. This is the 
second consecutive year that these resolutions were not 
passed, and due to the standing policy of this shareholder 
on these matters, it is unlikely to be resolved. The Board will 
continue to regularly consider their approach to this matter.
MAJORITY INTEREST IN SHARES
On 15 February 2022, the Company was notified of the following 
major interests (at or above 3%) in the issued ordinary shares of 
the Company in accordance with the DTR 5:
ShareholdersNumber 
of ordinary 
shares% 
shareholding
Sustainable Capital Limited 30 469 182 21.9
Graff Investments Limited 20 861 931 15.0
Lansdowne Partners 
Limited 18 677 221 13.4
Aberforth Partners LLP 17 187 672 12.3
Gem Diamonds Holdings 
Limited 9 325 000 6.7
Hosking Partners LLP 6 209 593 4.5
There were no further updates at the date of this report. Changes 
in major interests in the Company are updated on the Company’s 
website as and when they occur. The shareholder base comprises 
140.5 million issued ordinary shares of US$0.01 each. There are 
institutional shareholders that hold 88.9 million shares (63%) and 
private shareholders who hold 51.6 million shares (37%).
Employees and contractors
Our strength lies in the quality of our workforce that is instrumental 
in running our operations and delivering our strategy. With a 
remote mining location and a small pool of local talent, the 
retention and development of skills is always a priority. Regular 
engagement with our workforce ensure that we understand and 
address their needs.Management engages with the workforce through daily informal 
interactions, via the Company’s website and other electronic 
channels, and through the quarterly Letšeng newsletter. Visible 
field leadership visits and regular ‘toolbox talks’ with smaller shift 
teams provide further opportunities for engagement. During 
2021, Group and contractor management was often unable to 
physically visit the operations due to travel restrictions and had to 
use virtual engagement channels. 
A 24-hour ‘Stop for Safety’ campaign was held at Letšeng in 
June to address and engage with employees and contractors to 
understand root causes of the deterioration in safety performance 
following an increase in the frequency of safety incidents in H1. 
This provided a critical opportunity for employees to engage 
directly with senior management and executives. Following 
feedback from these engagements, 225 safety interventions were 
actioned in 2021. 
Mazvi Maharasoa, a non-Executive Director, is the Board’s 
representative who engages with the broader workforce and 
provides direct feedback to the Board on the key concerns 
raised. In 2021, she chaired several meetings with employee 
representatives. Matters raised during these meetings were 
addressed at Board and senior management level and employees 
were kept informed throughout the process. In response to 
these employee engagements, management adjusted the 
communications strategy to include more in-person meetings, 
which were felt to be lacking due to COVID-19 social distancing 
requirements and restrictions on large gatherings. 
Employees and contractors value:
• Fair treatment and remuneration.
• Health and safety, including safe working conditions 
during COVID-19.
• Opportunities for advancement.
• Skills development.
Key employee projects for 2021
A tailor-made leadership programme was launched at Letšeng 
during the last quarter of 2021. The programme focuses on 
developing key competencies specific to our operations. In 
addition, emphasis was placed on developing skillsets to support 
a culture of continuous improvement. 
Management trialled a new shift roster and considered how to 
change shifts to better meet the needs of employees. The shift 
roster was amended to allow for longer off periods for employees 
to spend more continuous time with their families. 
Management reviewed and amended the Letšeng succession 
planning policy. The revised policy was approved in November 
2021 and will be implemented in 2022. The main change to the 
policy was the introduction of a formal Succession Committee 
that will review and monitor compliance to the succession 
management policy and guidelines. Notable succession success 
stories for 2021 include the local appointments of the Head of 
Operations and Head of Finance at Letšeng. Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
40
OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED
Motooane Thinyane was appointed as the Head of 
Operations in March 2021. The appointment followed 
his successful career at Letšeng over the previous seven 
years as engineering manager. During 2020 he assumed 
responsibility for the operation when COVID-19 travel 
restrictions impacted the ability of Group management to 
travel to site, and successfully led the operation through 
this challenging period. 
Makhomo Motaung was appointed as Head of Finance 
in March 2021. She was first employed at Letšeng in 
June 2011 as a financial accountant. She was promoted 
to finance manager in 2014 and stepped up to lead the 
finance team at the beginning of 2020. 
These two appointments mark an important milestone 
for Letšeng as all Executive Management positions 
are held by Basotho nationals. It is a testament to the 
continued focus and dedication to the Group’s diversity, 
inclusion and localisation policies.
At Letšeng, a full-time psychologist was appointed to assist 
employees cope with mental health issues, especially related to 
the impact of COVID-19. An employee wellness provider was 
appointed to assist employees in the Johannesburg office. 
The ‘Stop for Safety’ day in June 2021 indicated the need for 
further engagements to address certain specific concerns among 
employees and contractors. Monthly follow-up sessions were 
held with employees led by Letšeng management to provide 
feedback on the actions taken to address the concerns raised. 
Bankers, insurers and funders
Providers of capital allow the Group to invest in capital projects 
and expansion opportunities. Insurance enables the transfer of 
certain risk elements as part of the Group’s risk mitigation strategy. 
The finance department engages with bankers and funders on 
an ongoing basis regarding facilities, compliance with covenants 
and debt renegotiations. At each operation, the finance team 
interacts with insurance brokering consultants around renewal 
anniversaries with oversight from Group risk management.
Providers of finance interests include:
• Responsible management of the Group’s financial position 
to ensure commitments can be met as they fall due.
• ESG practices and regulatory compliance.
• Effective management of tailings storage facilities.
• Transparency in reporting potential material matters in a 
timeous manner.
The risk perception of the mining industry by banks, funders and 
insurers has increased significantly since the start of COVID-19. 
A number of international catastrophic tailings storage facility 
failures has also reduced the risk appetite for the mining industry. 
This led to tighter lending criteria as well as increased exclusions, 
deductibles and premiums on insurance policies which were 
further affected by insurance claims due to the civil unrest experienced in South Africa in July 2021. Aggregate limits are 
being imposed on insurance policies and Director and Officer 
liability cover is becoming more difficult to secure. Insurers will 
likewise be assessing climate change risks in determining whether 
to provide cover or adjust premiums for extreme weather risk. The 
Group has implemented a new risk transfer strategy to address 
these challenges. 
Letšeng submitted a business interruption claim to its insurers 
for insured losses arising out of the 30-day COVID-19-related 
shutdown period in 2020 when the mine was required by Lesotho 
regulations to be placed on care and maintenance. This claim has 
been rejected by the insurer and Letšeng intends to pursue the 
matter further. 
The Group-wide debt refinancing was successfully concluded 
with the renewal of the Group’s revolving credit facilities for 
an amount of US$77.0 million for a three-year period. US$32.3 
million of the facilities are Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLLs) 
where the margin and resultant interest rate will decrease if the 
Group meets certain carbon reduction and water conservation 
key performance indicators (KPIs) that are aligned to the Group’s 
sustainability strategy. 
Project-affected communities
Letšeng’s PACs play a vital role in the success of the operation and 
we are committed to ensuring that these communities develop 
and benefit from the operation.
Letšeng’s Community Liaison Officer (CLO) engages with the 
surrounding communities, government officials and community 
elected representatives. PACs select community representatives 
who sit on the CSRI subcommittee of the Letšeng Board, 
creating a direct link between communities’ needs and Board 
decision-making. In addition to regular community engagement 
forums, a grievance mechanism is in place for PAC members to 
submit grievances directly to mine management. Social and 
environmental impact assessments and community needs 
analyses identify the most pressing community needs and 
concerns through consultation processes facilitated through 
independent external specialists. The needs and concerns 
identified through these independent studies form the foundation 
of our CSI strategies and community engagement plans. 
Community needs and concerns include:
• Basic infrastructure provision and local economic 
development.
• Improved access to education, skills development 
and healthcare.
• Regular engagement with PACs and updates regarding 
progress on community projects.
• Responsible and safe mining, environmental and 
social practices.
• Local employment opportunities.
• COVID-19-related support through PPE provision and other 
critical aid during the pandemic.
• Operational support in response to climate-related impacts, 
such as extreme weather events.2021
41
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED
A community needs analysis was conducted during the year. 
Letšeng continued to support surrounding communities during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Customers
Gem Diamonds’ relationship with its customers supports demand 
for its unique diamonds and helps to ensure the best prices 
are achieved.
We interact with customers regularly in the normal course of 
business, at tenders, and communicate through the Company 
website and press releases. Customers also have access to our 
electronic tender platform which is used to provide specific 
tender-related information.
Customers care about:
• Consistent availability of large, high-quality diamonds.
• Regular and transparent tenders.
• The ability to participate in tenders safely during COVID-19.
• Responsible environmental and social practices.
Six tenders were held in Antwerp in 2021, with the first trial 
viewing held in Dubai in September. The response from the 
Dubai diamond market was overwhelmingly positive and it 
made a significant contribution to the results achieved during 
this tender.Regulators and government
Mining is a highly regulated industry and the Government of the 
Kingdom of Lesotho is a 30% shareholder in Letšeng, the Group’s 
flagship mine. It is therefore essential that good relationships 
are maintained with these key stakeholders to ensure ongoing 
economically sustainable operations. 
Engagements with regulators are held as required by relevant 
legislation and we interact with government regularly regarding 
operational challenges where support is required, employment 
and progress on community initiatives, and to support local and 
national COVID-19 priorities. 
Government and regulator priorities include:
• Health and safety.
• Good governance and ethics.
• Responsible environmental and social practices.
• Community relationships and investments.
• Local employment and procurement.
• Contribution to Lesotho gross domestic product (GDP) 
through dividends, royalties and tax contributions.
• Support for government COVID-19 priorities.
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
42
Q AND A WITH OUR COO
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE 2021 
FROM A HEALTH AND SAFETY 
PERSPECTIVE?
Operationally, Letšeng faced numerous challenges during the 
year including the COVID-19 has placed on our operations, 
teams and supply chain efficiency. COVID-19 related isolation 
requirements and cross-boarder travel restrictions resulted in 
a significant number of lost shifts and impacted the availability 
of critical skills, equipment and parts and spares onsite. Extreme 
weather conditions, intermittent external power supply and 
operational challenges in both mining and treatment, including, 
equipment and critical spares availability, and extended 
downtime contributed to the challenging working conditions 
encountered during the year.
The impact of COVID-19 (both personally and at work) together 
with the challenged mentioned above, had a direct impact on 
the well-being of our workforce and is reflected in the frequency 
of safety incidents experienced at Letšeng, in the first half of the 
year. Following a robust safety performance in 2020 and in line 
with our commitment to zero-harm, leadership immediately 
halted all operations for 24 hours in June, an unprecedented step, 
to understand safety onsite.
During the 24hour “Stop for Safety” campaign, multiple 
engagement sessions were held with the entire workforce, led 
by Group, mine and contractor executives and senior operational 
and safety management. These intense sessions provided 
the platform to re-establish our commitment to and focus on 
safety as the absolute priority for the Group. Following four LTIs 
recorded at Letšeng in the period leading up to the “Stop for Safety” campaign we saw a significant improvement in the safety 
culture onsite with increased ownership for safety demonstrated 
by the entire workforce.
The increased focus on safety in 2021, and interventions taken, 
was in line with an industry-wide response to a marked downturn 
in safety performance, understood to be as a result of the 
impact of COVID-19 on mental health and fatigue. We therefore 
appreciate that our workforce is not alone in experiencing the 
continuing negative effects of COVID-19 on mental health which 
directly impacts on both safety and operational performance. We 
remain focused on mining safely and responsibly and cultivating 
a culture of zero harm and responsible care. 
We continued regular engagement forums with our workforce 
to reinforce the safety-first programme to provide  feedback on 
all  matters and concerns raised by the workforce in the “Stop for 
Safety” engagements. 
To support the renewed focus on safety culture within the 
organisation, we commissioned independent safety specialists 
to conduct a Group-wide safety perception survey to benchmark 
the maturity of our safety culture and identify opportunities to 
improve performance. The outcomes of the safety perception 
survey and subsequent workshops have informed our 2022 
safety performance agenda and a safety specific leadership 
coaching programme. 
As mentioned 2021 presented many challenges, in particular 
those related to COVID-19, however management’s focus in 
dealing with these challenges are indicative to the Group’s 
commitment to ensuring that operations were able to continue 
in a safe and responsible manner.
“The climate change scenario analysis 
conducted in 2021 has further informed our risk 
analysis and planning. We are acutely aware of 
the challenge in achieving sweeping progress 
and balancing the reality of our operating 
context including our scale, location and the 
dependence on fossil fuels in sub-Saharan 
Africa. We however remain focused  
to continuously improve our ability to  
operate efficiently and sustainably  
within these evolving constraints. ”
– Brandon de Bruin –2021
43
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
Q AND A WITH OUR COO CONTINUED
WHAT WERE THE MOST MATERIAL 
OPERATIONAL TRADE-OFFS THAT 
GEM DIAMONDS HAD TO MAKE 
IN 2021? 
Reflecting on 2021, four trade-offs come to mind: 
The 24-hour “Stop for Safety” campaign was a drastic but necessary 
intervention. I am proud of our commitment to safety in that, 
notwithstanding lost production we continue to drive a culture of 
zero harm that at all times puts the safety of our people first. 
The second trade-off was the decision to reduce ore feed 
through the PCA to protect the stability of the infrastructure 
while development of the new PCA is taking place. This resulted 
in reduced plant throughput.  
Extreme weather and grid instability in Southern Africa can cause 
unplanned power outages which result in prolonged downtime 
of our processing plants and other infrastructure at Letšeng. 
To reduce operational downtime, the operation improved our 
generator-based power strategy, which enabled us to keep 
operating but increases diesel consumption on site. 
The significant increase in rainfall and consequent availability of 
freshwater allowed us to defer of a capital project to expand the 
freshwater catchment area at Letšeng. However, we remain aware 
of the long-term risk of water shortages in the region and will 
manage our shared water resource responsibly.
A longer-term strategic trade-off currently under consideration 
is the trade-off between the next cutback in the Satellite pipe 
and an early access underground mining project. As a result of 
the extended availability of Satellite pipe ore to 2025 from pit 
optimisation and pit slope steeping, a decision was taken to 
delay the commencement of waste mining for the next open pit 
cut back in the Satellite pipe to 2024. During this time, we will be 
assessing the feasibility of an early access underground mining 
project, initially for the Satellite pipe but with consideration to 
access the Main pipe at a later stage and after the end of life of its 
open pit. Delaying the commencement of waste mining in the 
next cut back in the Satellite pipe, and potentially substituting 
it with an underground option, will significantly reduce waste-
associated mining costs in the short term, only to commence 
at a later stage or alternatively be substituted by underground 
capital investment.
These trade-offs tie into our continued drive towards optimisation 
and efficiencies, as well as ensuring sustainability and progressing 
on our decarbonisation strategy. Decarbonisation will be front 
of mind in all stages as we investigate the feasibility of the 
underground and other operational projects. HOW HAVE SUSTAINABILITY , 
DECARBONISATION AND 
CLIMATE CHANGE GOALS 
BEEN INTEGRATED INTO 
OPERATIONAL STRATEGY AND 
IMPLEMENTATION?
Our operations are located in regions that frequently experience 
extreme weather events and the Group has been managing 
the impacts of extreme weather since operations commenced. 
During 2021, the focus on both the physical and transitional risk 
of climate change strengthened our resolve and commitment 
to address climate change holistically and integrate our 
sustainability, decarbonisation and climate change goals into our 
business, financial and operational strategies. 
We have incorporated our sustainability and decarbonisation 
objectives into our current and future planning and strategy, 
where related opportunities and trade-offs have become a 
routine part of our planning discussions at all executive and 
operational levels of the business. 
Projects are planned and rolled out in a way that considers our 
environmental and climate-change impact while ensuring 
resilience for future climate scenarios. This has become an 
integral part of our strategic approach, planning and mindset. 
We continue to assess and implement opportunities throughout 
the operations to improve our resource use efficiencies and 
to reduce our reliance on grid and fossil fuel energy. This 
approach of introducing renewable energy sources is integral 
to all project planning going forward. Examples of projects 
implemented during 2021, using this approach, are outlined in 
the environmental section. 
The climate change scenario analysis conducted in 2021 has 
further informed our risk analysis and planning. We are acutely 
aware of the challenge in achieving sweeping progress and 
balancing the reality of our operating context including our 
scale, location and the dependence on fossil fuels in sub-
Saharan Africa. We however remain focused to continuously 
improve our ability to operate efficiently and sustainably within 
these evolving constraints. 
Following an extended drought period in recent years, Letšeng’s 
focus in 2021 was on improving water resource use efficiencies 
through optimised treatment process planning and water 
conservations measures. This included changing the way we 
manage stormwater run-off, capturing and directing both fresh 
and process water as well as enhancing our water management 
engineering controls. This focus has resulted in 78% of out process 
water use at Letšeng being recycled.Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
44
Q AND A WITH OUR COO CONTINUED
We advanced our nitrate management strategy by implementing 
improved technology within our bioremediation pilot plant and 
successfully concluded the trial phase of the bioremediation 
project showing remarkable nitrate removal rates. During 2021 
we completed several nitrate related studies, such as leachate 
trials, and the findings of these studies will inform both our short- 
to medium-term water and nitrate management strategies as 
well as long-term rehabilitation plans.
WHAT WILL THE COMPANY’S 
OPERATIONAL FOCUS BE IN 2022?
In 2022, we will be implementing strategic projects including the 
replacement of the PCA, the construction of the bioremediation 
plant and furthering the underground studies. The business 
transformation initiatives implemented over the past few years 
have been sustainably embedded and we continue to explore 
opportunities to and optimise our operational efficiencies. In line 
with this, we plan to further reduce waste mining by expanding 
the steeper slope options following the successful trials in the 
satellite pipe. 
Underpinning all strategic projects is our commitment to 
meeting our sustainability and decarbonisation objectives. The 
sustainability and climate change work undertaken in 2021 will 
inform how we advance our environmental stewardship goals, 
strengthen our resilience against the impacts of climate change and mitigate our operational impacts on the environment. 
Water management at Letšeng will focus on safe guarding 
access to water, both at the mining operations and for our other 
stakeholders in the region. This is particularly relevant considering 
the likely impact of climate change, which includes an increased 
probability of sporadic localised flooding as well as extended 
periods of drought. I look forward to the commissioning of our 
bioremediation plant at the end of the year to expanding our 
wetlands programme in and around the mine. 
We remain committed to our goal of zero harm and are focused 
on continuously improving on our safety performance and 
maturing the organisational safety culture through targeted 
initiatives and interventions. 
LASTLY , ANY CLOSING 
THOUGHTS?
Following the challenging year, I am proud of the resilience and 
determination shown by our entire Gem Diamonds team to 
ensure that our operations were able to continue in a safe and 
responsible manner while overcoming operational and personal 
challenges largely brought on by the continuing impacts of 
COVID-19. I would like to thank the Board and Executive for their 
continued support through the year.  
2021
45
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
EMPLOYEES
Our primary objective is safeguarding the health and safety of our employees, their families and surrounding communities – everyone 
should work and live in a safe environment every day. 
We promote equality, diversity and professional development for employees at every business level with attention to their physical and 
psychological well-being.
RELATED SUSTAINABILITY 
PRINCIPLES
Creating a safe and healthy working 
environment
Prioritising the development and well-being of 
our employees
Optimising socio-economic benefitRELATED UN SDGs
We launched the first rolling three-year cycle to embed the UN 
SDGs into our systems, processes and decision-making during 
the year. The following UN SDGs relate to our employees pillar:
Refer to our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 and Our 
Approach to Climate Change Report for more information 
on our approach to integrating these UN SDGs into our business 
operations.
SNAPSHOT OF OUR PERFORMANCE
Zero  fatalities (2020: zero)Six  lost time injuries (LTIs) 
(2020: one)Lost time injury frequency rate
(LTIFR) of  0.24  
(2020: 0.04)
US$0.7 million  
invested in COVID-19 
mitigation measures at Letšeng 
(2020: US$1.1 million) All injury frequency rate (AIFR):
 0.93  (2020: 0.76)US$37.4 million  
spent on employee  
remuneration and benefits  
(2020: US$31.8 million)
Letšeng retained  ISO 45001 
certificationMore than 17 800  COVID-19 
tests at Letšeng (2020: 13 000)67 599  proactive safety 
management actions  
(2020: 55 547)
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
46
EMPLOYEES CONTINUED
OUR GOALS
• Continuously mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on our 
workforce and PACs.
• Addressing our operational safety culture through a 
comprehensive leadership and safety campaign.
• Attracting and retaining talent with the required skills and 
relevant experience.
OUR FUTURE
We will continue ensuring our employees’ safety and health 
as the pandemic continues, leveraging our existing COVID-19 
management protocols and vaccination programme to keep our 
workforce safe. 
We will continue to deepen our understanding of the safety 
culture maturity of our workforce at our mining operations and 
strengthen our leadership teams to support our zero harm goal. 
Refer to our organisational safety culture case study for more 
information.
MATERIAL MATTERS
Providing a safe working environment
OUR CONTEXT
Letšeng is the highest diamond mine in the world and the 
remoteness and extreme natural environment contributes to 
extreme operating conditions. We therefore experience unique 
occupational health and safety challenges requiring specialist 
knowledge, rigorous planning and exceptional leadership to 
embed a culture of zero harm.
OUR APPROACH
Believing that every injury is preventable, our goal of zero harm is 
underpinned by a culture of care and accountability that is driven 
by each employee and advocated for by every leader. We do 
not only classify a safety incident based on its impact on people 
or property, but more importantly on its potential for impact 
or injury. Every safety incident and near miss must be reported 
and appropriately investigated to implement effective corrective 
actions and prevent future incidents. 
Following an increase in the frequency of safety incidents in the first 
half of 2021, leadership halted all operations at Letšeng for 24 hours 
to launch a focused safety campaign aimed at understanding 
the root causes of the recent safety performance and identify 
appropriate preventative measures. These discussions with the 
workforce during the shutdown informed a safety intervention 
programme, which resulted in an improved safety performance 
during the second half of the year. More information on the various 
safety interventions, including our organisational safety perception 
survey and formation of our ‘Grey Hair Council’ can be found in 
the Safety case study. We take a firm stand against non-compliance with our high 
safety standards for employees, contractors and sub-contractors. 
Non-compliance leads to disciplinary action against employees 
(including dismissal) and contractors (including blacklisting and 
banning offending contractor employees from site).
OUR PERFORMANCE
• AIFR: 0.93 (2020: 0.76).
• Zero fatalities (2020: zero).
• Six LTIs across the Group during 2021 (2020: one), resulting in 
a Group-wide LTIFR of 0.24 (2020: 0.04).
• 1 restricted work injury (RWI) across the Group during 2021 
(2020: four).
• US$0.7 million spent on ongoing COVID-19 protocols to 
protect our employees and contractors (2020:  
US$1.1 million).
• ISO 45001 certification retained at Letšeng.
2021
47
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
EMPLOYEES CONTINUED
Our safety journey in 2021 reflects Gem Diamond’s deep 
commitment to zero harm and the belief that all injuries are 
preventable. 
During the first half of 2021, the Letšeng operation recorded a 
series of safety incidents that led to the leadership team taking 
the decision to shut down operations for 24 hours for safety 
focused engagements with the entire workforce. 
The site-wide Stop for Safety campaign was the first of its kind 
for the Group and Letšeng and was aimed at understanding 
the root causes of increased safety incidents, reaffirm the 
commitment to zero harm and to design a targeted strategy 
to address the identified root causes and other concerns raised 
by the workforce during the intensive engagements.
This campaign took place on the 8th of June. Gem executive 
management and Letšeng’s leadership teams, accompanied 
by our contractors’ executive and operational management, 
engaged extensively with employees over their three shifts, 
from 3am to 11pm. An additional session for employees not 
on duty on the 8th of June was held the following week. 
A comprehensive list of actions was put together to 
immediately address matters raised during these sessions, 
which spanned a range of topics, including:
• The continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
• Fatigue management.
• Health and safety.
• Human resource management and leadership. 
As part of the discussions, the workforce requested more 
regular employee engagement forums to discuss safety and 
other matters, and as such, monthly employee engagement 
sessions were established. 
Following the Stop for Safety, we appointed external 
safety specialists to review our safety practices and identify 
opportunities for improvement. In support of this process, a MATURING OUR ORGANISATIONAL SAFETY CULTURE 
safety perception survey was conducted in October to map the 
organisation’s current safety maturity level. The findings of the 
safety perception survey informed a safety focussed response 
plan to implement strategic programmes that aim to develop 
and mature safety practices and organisational culture at 
Letšeng. 
The strategic safety programmes initiated in 2021 include:
• Critical control management.
• Incident investigation and management.
• Safety focused leadership coaching. 
• Just culture model development. 
In addition to the above programmes, we are maturing from 
reacting to lagging indicators, which measure failures post 
incident to leading indicators that measure performance and 
indicate whether safety and health controls are effective at 
managing safety risk, thus being more proactive in our safety 
strategy. This approach will be monitored and measured 
through a leading indicator safety committee that will meet 
monthly to conduct retrospective analysis of all the leading 
indicators to identify trends or potential red flags to allow a 
proactive response.
We recognise that with one operating mine, there is limited 
opportunity for cross-operational knowledge sharing and 
we have identified a need for external assistance to transfer 
knowledge, experience and expertise on safety related matters. 
We have constituted a committee of experienced individuals, 
our Grey Hair Council, from a broad industry base with deep 
insight into industry leading safety practices. In 2021, the Grey 
Hair Council provided valuable guidance and insights into 
actual safety incidents, which have been integrated into our 
safety response and management plans. 
Safety is paramount and we continue to look to find innovative 
ways to deepen our understanding of how we can keep 
ourselves and our teams safe. 
Attracting and retaining qualified 
people
OUR CONTEXT
Skills shortages in the mining sector, exacerbated by our remote 
location as we strive to employ local people, elevates our focus 
on being an employer of choice. Gem Diamonds therefore invests 
considerable resources in attracting and retaining talent, skills, 
expertise and experience. 
OUR APPROACH
Our strength is in the quality of our people. To attract and retain 
talented individuals, we must understand and address employee 
needs, offer market-related salaries, cultivate a supportive working 
environment and offer career development opportunities.We understand that frequent engagement and communication 
is critical to cultivating a collaborative working environment that 
facilitates the development and retention of employees. Since 
the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have engaged regularly 
with our people to understand their needs. 
We recognise that competitive remuneration plays a significant 
role in attracting and retaining qualified people. We remunerate 
our employees in line with market-related rates without 
discrimination based on race or gender. We also ensure that our 
lowest-graded employees are remunerated above the minimum 
wage of the host country. While Lesotho and Botswana do not 
prescribe a minimum wage for the mining sector, we use the 
construction industry wage guidelines as the standard. We 
also ensure that minimum requirements for remuneration are 
stipulated in our labour contracts.Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
48
In total, 9.9% of the workforce at Letšeng was compensated at 
the operation’s minimum wage (2020: 3.4%). In 2021, the lowest-
graded permanent employees at Letšeng received 55.6% above 
the construction sector’s minimum wage (2020: 54%). Other Gem 
Diamonds employees are remunerated above the minimum 
wage in line with market-related rates.
We provide benefits and incentives over and above basic 
remuneration to attract and retain top talent. Incentives retain 
key individuals through performance-based bonuses and long-
term share awards. EMPLOYEES CONTINUED
We have committees at Group and subsidiary levels to review 
current remuneration policies, skills and succession planning. 
Furthermore, non-financial metrics are included in employee and 
leadership scorecards in line with sustainability goals. See the 
Remuneration Report in our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
for more information.
Of our permanent workforce at Letšeng, 93% of employees 
subscribe to the mandatory government retirement provision 
scheme. Letšeng contributes 7.5% of employees’ annual salaries 
to this scheme and employees contribute 7.5%. The remaining 
7% comprises fixed-term contract employees who are not eligible 
for this benefit but paid a fixed-term contract allowance at 20%. 
Employees at our Ghaghoo mine receive a statutory payment 
upon contract completion, equal to 15% of basic monthly salary 
for each month of employment.
South Africa and London-based employees are remunerated on 
a cost-to-company basis, enabling them to elect their retirement 
schemes and contributions. At our Belgian operations, employees 
contribute 25% of their salaries to a mandatory government 
retirement scheme (2020: 25%).
OUR PERFORMANCE
• 353 employees (2020: 357) and 1305 contractor employees 
(2020: 1 535) at year end.
• The average number of employees was 354 (2020: 377) and 
the average number of contractor employees was 1 317 
(2020: 1 466).
• US$37.4 million was spent on employee wages, benefits and 
incentives (2020: US$31.8 million).
• The Group-wide absenteeism rate was 4.5 days per person 
(2020: 1.8 days).
• 2.3% Group-wide voluntary staff turnover (2020: 6.1%).
• Zero cases of discrimination were recorded (2020: zero).
Employee demographics
2021 Male Female Local <30 31-50 >50
Board 71% 29% 43% 0% 0% 100%
Senior 
management72% 28% 100% 0% 67% 33%
Middle 
management79% 21% 89% 6% 75% 19%
Total 78% 22% 98% 7% 76% 17%
2020 Male Female Local <30 31-50 >50
Board 86% 14% 29% 0% 29% 71%
Senior 
management67% 33% 78% 0% 67% 33%
Middle 
management81% 19% 85% 7% 85% 8%
Total 80% 20% 98% 10% 77% 13%
2021
49
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
EMPLOYEES CONTINUED
Providing skills development 
opportunities for employees
OUR CONTEXT
To remain competitive, we require exceptional people. While we 
invest in recruiting specialist skills as required, we also empower 
Gem Diamonds employees to further their careers by providing 
learning and development opportunities.
OUR APPROACH
We invest in the training and development of our employees 
and identify skills shortages to implement relevant development 
programmes as well as focused succession planning for 
employees. We train and develop our employees through various 
internal and external programmes, and have a well-established 
mentorship culture. All employees have clear development plans 
that incorporate key competencies. These plans are monitored 
regularly with annual performance reviews to ensure our people 
are engaged and meet business objectives.
Formal policies support our succession planning. In 2021, these 
policies were reviewed in depth, updated, enhanced and aligned 
to the Board’s commitment to diversity and inclusion.
In addition to on-site technical training, we have implemented 
a strategy to support our commitment to skills development. 
Our internship programme, which has been in place since 2009, 
focuses on offering practical field experience for new graduates. 
To date, we have had 48 graduates with 53% offered permanent 
employment. Our scholarship programme provides current 
and future employees the opportunity to study at recognised 
institutions. Since the programme’s inception in 2006, Letšeng 
has awarded 48 scholarships to young Lesotho citizens to study 
mining, engineering, emergency medical care and finance. The 
appointment of our heads of operations and finance at Letšeng, 
both graduates of our Gem Diamonds development process, was 
a highlight of 2021. During the year, we also developed an on-site 
leadership coaching programme that will be rolled out in 2022. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Senior management training: 209 hours (2020: 176 hours)
• Middle management training: 4 503 hours (2020: 1 136 hours).
• Non-management training: 28 982 hours (2020: 5 092 hours).
• 14% of employee career reviews performed (2020: 16%).
• 20% of female employees received reviews (2020: 17%).
• 11% of male employees received reviews (2020: 19%).
Ensuring our employees remain healthy
OUR CONTEXT
Improving employee health and wellness increases morale, 
reduces absenteeism and improves productivity. As our mines 
are in extreme locations with limited public infrastructure, we 
rely on our on-site clinics to provide the necessary emergency, 
occupational and primary healthcare for our employees. We also 
prioritise our employees’ mental well-being through tailored 
counselling and engagement programmes. 
OUR APPROACH
We strive to provide an environment that actively encourages 
and supports employee well-being and healthy lifestyles. 
Effective safety policies and processes reduce risks, strengthen 
our relationships with employees and regulators, and safeguard 
the Group’s reputation.All new employees complete a full medical examination during 
induction. Similarly, when an employee departs, we perform an 
exit medical examination. 
Our primary healthcare and total occupational disease cases were 
lower than previous years. No cases of malaria or cholera were 
reported at our operations for the fourth consecutive year.
At the onset of COVID-19, we began implementing our 
precautions to ensure the welfare of our workforce. COVID-19 
protocols and prevention measures are adjusted as the pandemic 
progresses. 
We implemented active COVID-19 testing at Letšeng to screen 
and monitor people entering the site. In addition, people 
showing symptoms of the virus are immediately isolated, 
assessed and safely transported to their homes or a regulated 
medical quarantine facility.
An enhanced physical and mental health programme supports 
our workforce in coping with additional pressures during this 
period. A mental health practitioner was employed by our 
Letšeng this year and we contracted ICAS for our Johannesburg 
employees. ICAS is a leading provider of employee wellness 
services.
As many of our employees and their families reside in our 
local communities, we also understand the importance of 
protecting our surrounding communities. We continued our 
efforts to support the Government of Lesotho in their fight to 
curb the spread of COVID-19. See the social section for our 
progress in 2021.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Fully equipped clinic at Letšeng to deal with on site and 
occupational medical needs.
• 98% of employees fully vaccinated by 31 December 2021.
• 100% pre-employment medical examination rate at Letšeng 
(2020: 100%).
• 100% exit medical examination rate at Letšeng (2020: 100%).
• Decrease in occupational health cases to 348 (2020: 503).
• 7 232 serious disease prevention and management 
interventions (2020: 3 611).Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
50
EMPLOYEES CONTINUED
In line with our commitment to zero harm, we strive to ensure a 
safe and healthy working environment throughout the Group’s 
operations. Following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
responded by proactively managing the emerging challenges, 
enabling us to protect our workforce and allowing operations 
to continue in a safe manner. 
Our Letšeng operation worked with all key stakeholders, 
including our workforce, PACs and the Government of Lesotho, 
to identify how to:
• Collaboratively mitigate the impact of the pandemic.
• Curb the spread of the virus, both at our operations and 
in our PACs
• Practically support the Governments and our 
communities. 
For more information on the support given to our PACS 
and Government partners, which includes the donation of  
20 000 vaccines, oxygen concentrators, personal protective 
equipment (PPE) and an ambulance, please see the 
social section.
To ensure we could continue operations safely, a COVID-19 
response plan was implemented. The response plan 
focused on:
• Adhering to COVID-19 protocols and procedures such 
as appropriate PPE, social distancing, sanitising and 
quarantining.
• Wide-scale screening and testing
• An on-site vaccination programme. 
We also took the host country regulations and associated 
alert levels into account, adjusting the on-site protocols and 
procedures as needed.
Throughout the year, we continued with COVID-19 screening 
and testing at staff transportation points, before travel to site, 
and on site. A quarantine and contact tracing procedure was 
implemented to limit transmission of the virus. Team members 
who tested positive or showed symptoms of the virus were 
immediately isolated, assessed and safely transported to their 
homes or a regulated medical quarantine facility. 
A key highlight of 2021 was the successful roll out of 
our vaccination programme. While 52% of the world 
population was fully vaccinated against COVID-19 as at 
31 December 2021, only 34% of the eligible population in COMBATTING COVID – AN INTEGRATED APPROACH
Lesotho was fully vaccinated. In this context, it is pleasing to 
report that the focus and effort to raise awareness and drive a 
vaccination campaign throughout our operations achieved a 
99% vaccination rate to date. The success of this programme is 
directly attributable to an expansive education and information 
campaign that helped employees understand the science 
behind the vaccine and our collaboration with the Lesotho 
Ministry of Health to have the workforce vaccinated on site. 
We are conscious of the impact COVID-19 has had on our 
entire workforce both in the workplace and at home. These 
impacts have manifested themselves in mental health, fatigue 
and operational performance issues. To address this pertinent 
issue, we focused on regular employee engagement and a 
psychologist was appointed to provide mental health support 
and counselling to our workforce.
Our COVID-19 strategy has enabled us to continue operating 
safely and responsibly, and is reflective of our commitment to 
work with our stakeholder and partners to keep our employees, 
communities and host countries safe and sustainable.
For so long as the pandemic remains a risk to our people, we 
will continue to support the Lesotho Government in its efforts 
to combat the virus and will follow emerging medical and 
scientific research to inform our safety practices on site to keep 
our people safe and our operations open.OUR
COVID-19
RESPONSEUS$ 1.8 million 
invested at 
Letšeng30 820 
Covid-19 tests 
conducted
2 371 rapid 
antigen tests 
conducted
24 926 rapid 
antibody tests 
conducted 3 677 PCR tests 
conductedUS$ 1 150 
invested per 
Letšeng 
employee98% 
vaccination 
rate2021
51
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
EMPLOYEES CONTINUED
Engaging with employees and elected 
representatives
OUR CONTEXT
We seek to maintain and consistently improve engagement and 
communication with our workforce to understand their needs 
and challenges and to enhance workforce relations. Our Letšeng 
operation remains non-unionised while Ghaghoo became 
unionised in 2016.
OUR APPROACH
Our approach to employee engagement continues to evolve in 
line with best practice and our unique circumstances.
Non-Executive Director Mazvi Maharasoa leads employee 
engagement, ensuring that employee concerns are heard at 
Board level. Engagements in 2021 included an open forum 
discussion with employees identifying their representatives.  
We maintain a freedom of association policy, and our employees 
are free to join unions and other collective-bargaining 
organisations. We aim to swiftly address employee grievances 
and proactively engage with our employees and their elected 
representatives to facilitate this. We have established policies and 
procedures to guide our operations. Our policy provisions are 
based on our detailed change management system and the host 
country’s legislation. We ensure that our employees are notified 
of significant or material changes to the operations or working environments through these established policies and procedures. 
Our management team also provides frequent engagement with 
our workforce through multiple forums, including daily toolbox 
talks, weekly visible felt leadership visits, town hall meetings 
(subject to COVID-19 protocols) and weekly newsletters.
This year, our engagements highlighted the need to optimise our 
employees’ shift rotations to maximise their time at home. Letšeng 
operates continuously with shift configurations in line with local 
legislative requirements, and operational and market demands. 
We endeavour to ensure the safety of our workforce during shift 
rotations and strive to minimise shift disruptions. Following the 
‘Stop for Safety’ engagements in 2021, an alternative schedule 
was requested, assessed, successfully piloted and implemented. 
We are satisfied that adequate mechanisms are in place to 
record and address workforce’ grievances, and we maintain good 
relationships with our workforce and relevant bodies. Refer to our 
stakeholder section for more information on our engagements 
with employees. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Zero strikes or lockouts were recorded in 2021 (2020: zero).
• Constructive engagement with employee representatives 
continued in 2021.
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
52
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL
Our holistic approach to business performance integrates our sustainability principles and daily activities to uphold our social licence to 
operate, generate fair returns for our shareholders and sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
RELATED SUSTAINABILITY 
PRINCIPLES
Prioritising the development and well-being of 
our employees
Upholding business integrity
Optimising socio-economic benefit
Improving resource use efficienciesRELATED UN SDGs
We launched the first rolling three-year cycle to embed the UN 
SDGs into our systems, processes and decision-making during 
the year. The following UN SDGs relate to our financial and 
operational pillar:
Refer to our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 and Our 
Approach to Climate Change Report for more information 
on our approach to integrating these UN SDGs into our business 
operations.
SNAPSHOT OF OUR PERFORMANCE
US$201.9 million  
in revenue  
(2020: US$189.6 million)US$57.4 million   
underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA) (2020: US$53.2 million 
underlying pre-exceptional EBITDA)
US$4.0 million  
in capital expenditure  
(2020: US$1.6 million)6.2 million  ore tonnes treated 
(2020: 5.4 million)
2021
53
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
OUR GOALS
• Successfully manage the impact of COVID-19 on our 
operational and financial performance.
• Ensuring product security and preventing theft.
• Managing costs effectively.
OUR FUTURE
We will continue to work on enhancing blasting techniques, 
and introduce innovative technology to improve operational 
performance and reduce diamond damage. Opportunities to 
further enhance the mine plan will continue in 2022, and we will 
also continue to assess internal and external growth opportunities.
For more information, refer to the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2021.
MATERIAL MATTERS
Maintaining a strong revenue stream 
and managing costs
OUR CONTEXT
As our operating context remains challenging, we need to ensure 
business continuity throughout the pandemic to generate strong 
revenues, protect the viability of our operations and ultimately 
create shared value for our stakeholders. In addition to revenue 
generation, our success as a business depends on our ability to 
optimise our operations and effectively manage costs.
In 2021, mining operations were able to continue without 
COVID-19 related shutdowns. The diamond market improved 
significantly. This context of the continual mining operations and 
the improved market sentiment resulted in an improved revenue 
and profit achieved in the 2021 period, although the average 
price achieved was lower mainly due to a fewer large diamond 
recoveries. 
OUR APPROACH
Our strategic focus on extracting maximum value from our 
operations prioritises production, value realisation, improving 
efficiencies and reducing costs. We continue to look for further 
opportunities to minimise diamond damage during recovery 
through investment in innovative technology development. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• US$201.9 million in revenue (2020: US$189.6 million).
• Six tenders during 2021 (2020: six).
• 71% of revenue derived from diamonds greater than 10.8 
carats in 2021 (2020: 81%).
• US$1 835 average price per carat in 2021 (2020: US$1 908)
• Business Transformation process realised savings and 
efficiencies of US$110.2 million since 2018.FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED
Enhancing balance sheet strength
OUR CONTEXT
We operate in a long-term, capital-intensive industry that requires 
funding to meet daily operational requirements and investment 
in capital projects. Optimising our cashflow and maintaining 
cash reserves has always been a priority and has supported the 
resilience of the organisation.
OUR APPROACH
Selective capital deployment, prudent cash flow management 
and strong relationship management with all our stakeholders, 
including our funders, are among our measures to protect and 
strengthen our balance sheet. Capital projects are assessed 
against long-term growth goals and funding availability.
By creating sustainable financial returns, the Group can continue 
to sustain current operations, maintain a sustainable dividend 
policy and invest to prepare for the future. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Cash on hand of US$31.1 million (2020: US$49.8 million)
• US$23.5 million attributed to Gem Diamonds (2020: 
US$36 million)
• US$4.0 million in capital expenditure (2020: US$1.6 million)
• US$71.3 million in cash generated from operations (2020: 
US$96.2 million)
• US$10.2 million of available facilities drawn down (2020: 
US$15.2 million) with undrawn and available facilities of  
US$74.3 million (2020: US$60.8 million).
Refer to the Chief Financial Officer’s Review in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2021 for more information.
Protecting the premium brand of 
diamonds
OUR CONTEXT
The popularity of synthetic diamonds is attributed to consumers’ 
perceptions of conflict diamonds and their preferences. We 
therefore protect the premium quality of our brand by embedding 
the highest corporate governance and ethics standards in our 
organisation.
Demand for Letšeng’s large, high-value diamonds continues to 
be strong and competition from laboratory-grown diamonds has 
yet to be seen at this end of the premium market.Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
54
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED
OUR APPROACH
We vehemently oppose the global trade in conflict diamonds and 
its impact on political stability, human rights and the legitimate 
global diamond trade. Our diamond exports comply with the 
Kimberley Process and Gem Diamonds participates in the 
Gemological Institute of America’s Diamond Origin programme, 
which provides consumers with information about the country of 
origin of their diamonds as well as the positive impact the mine 
and the broader diamond industry have on the communities and 
countries in which they operate.
All Gem Diamonds customers, who trade with us by invitation 
only, are screened using anti-money laundering protocols and 
‘know your client’ reviews to ensure compliance with regulatory 
requirements. 
The Group is committed to ethical business practices and 
regards good corporate governance as essential for long-term 
value creation. Workplace safety is also an absolute priority – we 
constantly improve our safety systems and processes. The Board 
is committed to environmental sustainability and Gem Diamonds’ 
inclusion in the FTSE4Good index recognises the high standards 
of environmental, social and governance practices.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• All rough diamond exports are certified through the 
Kimberley Process certification scheme.
• We fully comply with all government regulations and 
relevant voluntary codes concerning product and service 
information and labelling.
• Zero significant cases of bribery, corruption or anti-
competitive behaviour to date (2020: zero).
• Zero incidents of potential breach of client confidentiality 
(2020: zero).
For more information on how we ensure the integrity of our value 
chain, refer to the Annual Report and Accounts 2021.Ensuring product security
OUR CONTEXT
Security and theft remain inherent risk considerations due to the 
high value of diamonds. From mining and extraction to selling 
our product, we ensure meticulous care and secure handling of 
our diamonds with the highest standards of ethical conduct to 
protect our premium brand.
OUR APPROACH
We continue investing in risk mitigation measures and management 
processes at our facilities to protect the safety and security of our 
employees, customers and product. Our operations thoroughly 
assess their risk profiles, and regularly engage with specialists to 
keep abreast of technological advancements and methods to 
address vulnerabilities in our processes, practices and systems.
With respect for human rights, our security and key employees 
are trained to apply and act in accordance with good practice 
guidelines.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• We continuously evaluate and implement product 
protection measures to address vulnerable areas.
• Our external consultants benchmark our systems, processes 
and practices against internationally developed philosophies 
and standards.
• The effectiveness of our off-site surveillance function 
continuously improves to support our security objectives.
• We conduct annual security audits and implement 
necessary actions to address vulnerabilities in our systems 
and procedures.
Managing and mitigating macro, social 
and economic risks
OUR CONTEXT
Our operations are exposed to global risks and uncertainties that 
could harm the Group, including political instability, financial 
market uncertainty, the residual impact of COVID-19 and its 
resultant economic downturn, the financial implications of 
climate change and the effect of currency volatility, among others.
In addition, the diamond industry is affected by several 
uncontrollable factors, including price and demand, inventory 
levels, changing consumer preferences and product substitution. 
Although medium- to long-term demand is expected to outpace 
supply, there is a direct impact on our cashflows and our ability 
to fund operations, projects and growth plans in the short term.
OUR APPROACH
The Group proactively identifies, manages and mitigates risks and 
uncertainties to avoid financial, operational and compliance impacts 
on our performance, reputation and long-term growth. We employ 
appropriate governance and oversight in our comprehensive risk 
management framework (outlined in the risk management section 
of the Annual Report and Accounts 2021).
OUR PERFORMANCE
Refer to the Annual Report and Accounts 2021 risk management  
section for more information.
2021
55
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS
Our commitment to governance and ethics excellence ensures that good corporate citizenship permeates the business. We understand 
that the value of our exquisite diamonds is determined by the way we mine. We therefore produce and distribute rough and polished 
diamonds according to the highest ethical and legal standards.
RELATED SUSTAINABILITY 
PRINCIPLES
Creating a safe and healthy work environment
Prioritising the development and well-being of 
our employees
Optimising socio-economic benefit
Prioritising environmental protectionRELATED UN SDGs
We launched the first rolling three-year cycle to embed the UN 
SDGs into our systems, processes and decision-making during 
the year. The following UN SDGs relate to our governance 
and ethics pillar:
Refer to our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 and Our 
Approach to Climate Change Report for more information 
on our approach to integrating these UN SDGs into our business 
operations.
SNAPSHOT OF OUR PERFORMANCE
Every recovered rough diamond is certified  
through the Kimberley ProcessFully compliant with government regulations and 
relevant voluntary codes for product and service 
information labelling
Zero  cases of bribery, corruption 
and anti-competitive behaviour to date 
(2020: zero)Blockchain technology informs customers about the 
source of diamonds and corporate citizenship
Zero  breaches of confidentiality 
and customer privacy  
(2020: zero)25 whistleblowing reports  
(2020: 19)
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
56
OUR GOALS
• Managing the emerging risk of regulations relating to 
climate change and carbon pricing. 
• Appropriately adopting and implementing best practice 
standards as a junior mining company.
• Balancing business resources with regulatory requirements. 
OUR FUTURE
• We remain dedicated to good governance that 
demonstrates our commitment to human rights, ethics, and 
the prevention of bribery and corruption.
• We will continue to do business in a manner that protects 
the human rights of all stakeholders. 
• We are fully integrating the ISO 18788: Management system 
for private security services. 
• We are advancing the maturity of the organisation in terms of 
responding to the risks and opportunities of climate change. 
MATERIAL MATTERS
Implementing effective Board-
approved ESG strategies
OUR CONTEXT
The Board ensures that good governance, including ethical conduct, 
is practised throughout the Group. Leading by example, the Board 
oversees performance and activities such as, among others:
• ESG strategy development and implementation
• Risk management and mitigation plans
• Innovation
• Business Transformation initiatives 
• Corporate social investment strategies
• Employee health and safety. 
We are also committed to adopting and complying with best 
practice standards such as the Equator Principles, the Global 
Industry Standard on Tailings Management and other appropriate 
standards. 
OUR APPROACH
The Board is ultimately responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
activities, strategy and financial performance, efficient use of 
resources, and improving its health, safety, social, environmental 
and climate change resilience performance. During 2021, the 
Board appointed Rosalind Kainyah as a non-Executive Director, 
this appointment strengthens the Board’s capacity and skills in 
terms of ESG matters. 
Gem Diamonds consistently applies the principles of good 
governance contained in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code 
and voluntary disclosures in relation to the Miscellaneous Reporting 
Regulation. Further information on our compliance with the 
code’s provisions is available in our 2021 compliance statement 
included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021.During 2021, formal governance structures were adopted to 
ensure climate-related risks and opportunities are identified and 
elevated to the Board through the appropriate sub-committees. 
The Group also implemented an employee engagement strategy 
to ensure that the employee’s key concerns are addressed at the 
highest level. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Adopted TCFD recommendations, building on the previously 
approved climate change adaptation plan.
• Appointed new non-Executive Director, Rosalind Kainyah, 
who brings deep ESG experience to enhance the Board’s 
expertise.
• Mazvi Maharasoa, a non-Executive Director, is responsible 
for engaging with employees to ensure their voices are 
heard in the boardroom.
• Gem Diamonds is a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Index.
• Maintained our status as a responsible, and low-cost 
operation.
Prioritising business integrity
OUR CONTEXT
With business integrity and good corporate citizenship remaining 
our top priority, we recognise the value of our stakeholders 
and endeavour to protect their human rights. This includes 
preventing forced or child labour, and promoting a culture of 
non-discrimination and ethical leadership, underpinned by our 
human capital policies. 
OUR APPROACH
Our sustainable development framework and code of ethics 
ensure our compliance with the legislation and regulations of our 
host countries as well as voluntary codes for labelling, products 
and service, and our commitment to international best practice. 
Supply chain control ensures our contractors comply with the 
same principles. 
We continuously refine our human rights policies and procedures, 
and provide training in human rights, our code of ethics and values 
for employees as part of the Letšeng induction programme, and 
all staff receive annual human rights training. Letšeng aligns itself 
with the principles on security and human rights as included 
in the ISO 18788:2015 Management system for private security 
operations, which has been adopted at Letšeng. The entire security 
department has received training on human rights and voluntary 
principles, as outlined in ISO 18788.
Our human capital policies also enforce the fair treatment of 
employees through negotiated remuneration, non-discrimination, 
and strict health and safety practices. 
As an ethical and accountable organisation, we supply rough 
and polished diamonds of the highest quality. Responsible 
business practices are incorporated into every step of our journey 
from production to market, and we remain compliant with, 
and committed to, the Kimberley Process. This preserves our 
reputation for ethical mining and distributing diamonds without 
harming people or the environment. GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS CONTINUED2021
57
Our approach to reporting | Our guiding principles | Our business model | Q and A with our Chairperson of the Board | Material matters  
Working towards global goals | Q and A with our Sustainability Committee Chairperson | Environmental | An overview from our CEO | Social  
Our corporate social investment in Lesotho | Our stakeholder engagement | Q and A with our COO | Employees | Financial and operational | Governance and ethics
We have strong relationships with our customers through our 
commitment to transparency and integrity. In addition, we 
communicate openly with our customers – when we conclude 
a diamond tender, a complete list of the winning bids is 
electronically circulated to all participants in the sales process.
We continue to mature our reporting and in 2021 we adopted the 
TCFD framework (with reporting taking place for the first time in 
2022), and started reporting through the CDP in 2021. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Zero major or significant stakeholder complaints (2020: zero).
• Fully committed and compliant with the Kimberly Process 
(2020: fully compliant).
• Zero breaches of customer confidentiality (2020: zero).
• Letšeng’s induction programme includes human rights 
training.
• No child or forced labour (2020: zero). 
• No operations involved in relocating or resettling project-
affected communities (PACs) (2020: zero).
• All Letšeng security staff received human rights (2020: 100%).
• ISO 18788:2015 Management system for private security 
operations adopted at Letšeng. OUR APPROACH
The Board conducts a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of 
its own performance, and that of its Committees and Directors, 
so that no individual or group dominates decision-making. In 
December 2021, Bruce Wallace Associates facilitated this evaluation 
of the Board and Company’s response to events of the preceding 
months, strategy formulation, stakeholder engagement and 
risk management. The findings were consolidated into a report 
circulated to Directors and discussed at the March 2022 Board 
meeting, along with recommendations. The overall findings were 
positive and demonstrated significant progress from the previous 
year’s evaluation. 
The Board is committed to medium and long-term value creation 
for stakeholders by ensuring efficient use of Group resources in 
day-to-day operations. Each Board member has experience and 
knowledge of the diamond industry to identify opportunities and 
enhance operational efficiencies.
The Remuneration Committee, comprising two independent 
non-Executive Directors and a Chairperson, meets formally at least 
twice a year to determine the remuneration of the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the senior Executive 
team. Executive and senior management as well as external 
advisers may be invited to attend these meetings as deemed 
appropriate. The Remuneration Committee also determines the 
terms and conditions of performance-related remuneration, with 
sustainability linked KPIs included in Executive Management’s 
personal performance objectives. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Full compliance with the amendments and additions to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
• Board and Committee performance assessed.
• Bolstered the independence of the Board, following the 
changes that occurred to its composition.
See our Annual Report and Accounts 2021 for more 
information.
Ensuring legal, regulatory and 
governance excellence
OUR CONTEXT
We keep abreast of legal, regulatory and governance requirements 
as well as industry best practice to embed sound corporate 
governance principles in our business, and thus create sustainable 
value for our stakeholders. Our Social and Environmental Impact 
Assessments (SEIAs) are aligned with the International Financial 
Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and 
Social Sustainability, the Equator Principles and the Free and Prior 
Informed Consent (FPIC) guidelines. 
Our host country’s legal and regulatory terms, conditions and 
performance expectations are outlined in the Letšeng mining 
lease, granted by the Government of Lesotho until 2039. This lease 
includes a framework for our partnership with the Government, 
securing our operation’s long-term and sustainable future.GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS CONTINUED
Ensuring transparent governance and 
remuneration practices
OUR CONTEXT
The Board reports to stakeholders on the Group’s financial, social, 
environmental, governance, and health and safety performance 
while promoting an ethical culture and embedding good 
governance principles in the business for the benefit of investors, 
host nations and PACs.
Gem Diamonds Limited Sustainability Report
58
GREYMATTERFINCH # 15775GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS CONTINUED
OUR APPROACH
We amend our governance policy when the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and other relevant standards change, and 
the Group has an internal Governance Committee that drives 
the work to adopt and implement these changes. We are also 
implementing the recommendations of the TCFD and the social 
and environmental management plans governing operational 
activities are aligned with best practice. A robust internal and 
external audit framework exists to ensure regular compliance 
checks with the legal requirements and best practice standards 
that the Group has adopted. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Adopted the TCFD recommendations.
• Adopted the GISTM.
• Integrated relevant ISO standards.
Refer to the Governance chapter of our Annual Report and 
Accounts 2021 for more information.
Raising standards across the pipeline
OUR CONTEXT
Our lifelong duty of care requires that the way we do business 
enhances the mining industry’s reputation. The continued 
implementation of responsible workplace practices in the face 
of the global pandemic has ensured our workforce remains safe 
and the Group could manage operational disruptions. Our multi-
layered supply chain supports our production of raw, direct and 
indirect materials as well as our technical, legal, administrative, 
engineering and other professional services, and skilled labour. 
The Group continues its efforts in research and development 
into innovative ways to improve and optimise our mining and 
treatment processes. 
OUR APPROACH
Standards and practices adopted through the Group ensures 
our processes, and those of our suppliers, align with our code 
of ethics and reputation. Our governance processes proactively 
identify and mitigate risk. In addition, our whistleblowing 
policy encourages employees to anonymously report unethical 
behaviour and we appropriately address reported incidents. 
Our operational HSE system is based on the ISO standards of 
Environmental Management (14001) and Occupational Health 
and Safety (45001). Independent auditors conduct compliance 
audits on our systems on an annual basis, and in 2021 we once 
again received a positive recertification audit. 
Our stringent procurement process assesses suppliers in line with 
best practice and we continuously work to mature the process as 
appropriate. Suppliers are assured of equal opportunity to tender 
although we proactively promote in-country procurement. 
Formal contracts are concluded with suppliers with clear terms 
and conditions, including our governance policies, to confirm 
adherence to those policies and ensure they adopt our way of 
doing business. The way we do business is governed by the following policies 
that govern our procurement process:
• Anti-bribery and corruption
• Code of conduct
• Dealing mandate
• Delegation of authority
• Disposal
• Fraud
• Gift
• Localisation strategy
• HSE contractor management standards.
We do not tolerate bribery and corruption and are compliant 
and supportive of the UK’s Bribery Act. We also demand the same 
from our suppliers through clauses included in supplier contracts. 
To this end, Group internal audit regularly reviews our anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policy.
Cybersecurity is a crucial focus area as our operations rely on 
secure information technology (IT) systems for efficient and 
secure financial and operational management to avoid material 
adverse impacts on the business. We continually upgrade our 
systems, processes and security firewalls to reduce the risk of 
sophisticated attacks.
Our IT controls, processes and systems are built according to 
industry-accepted standards. We also have appropriate two-tier 
back-up procedures with firewalls and other security applications. 
In addition, we frequently test our back-up restorations and, to 
the extent necessary, external professional advisers help mitigate 
evolving risks. 
Processes in terms of “Know-Your-Client” are in place across 
the Group and senior Executives sign off on risk assessments 
and appropriate due diligence. Our whistleblowing line, which 
is monitored by an independent audit company, provides a 
platform for employees and other partners to anonymously report 
any breaches of law, policy or procedure. Once the notifications 
are received by the Group Internal Auditor and CFO, they are 
distributed to the appropriate representatives for investigation. 
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Expanded whistleblowing policy with 25 reports (2020: 19).
• Goods and services procured from reputable companies in 
line with our procurement and associated policies.
• New suppliers evaluated by a diverse team, including 
representatives of Group operations.
• Suppliers signed our policies on ethics, anti-bribery and anti-
corruption.
• Technology tested on site for early identification and non-
mechanical liberation of diamonds.
• Frequent tests of IT back-up restorations.2nd Floor, Coastal Building, 
Wickham’s Cay II, PO Box 2221, Road Town,
Tortola, British Virgin Islands, Registration number: 669758
GEM DIAMONDS LIMITED
www.gemdiamonds.com
