2020
Sustainability Report
2
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020Contents
INTRODUCTION  3
CE
O Introduction
 4
ABOUT U
S
 5
Our Hist
ory
 6
Our L
ocations
 7
Our A
wards
 8
SU
STAINABILITY APPROACH
 10
PEOPLE
 15
Human C
apital Management
 17
C
OVID -19
 18
Div
ersity, Equity + Inclusion Council
 2
0
Women’s Network
 22
Learning and Dev
elopment
 2
4
Engaged Workforce
 2
6
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
 2
7
Human Rights
 2
9
Safety – Vision Zero 
 30
OUR PL
ANET
 31
Planet Metrics
 33
Making a Diff
erence
 35
ISO - 1400
1
 3
7
Planet Risks
 3
7
our technologies 
 38
PL
ACES
 43
being a part of our c
ommunity
 44
ST
AKEHOLDERS & SUPPLY CHAIN
 47
Stak
eholders & Supply Chain
 48
GO
VERNANCE
 49
2
021 PLANS & COMMITMENTS
 51
APPENDIX
 
533
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020Introduction
With the publication of Gentherm’s 2020 Sustain-
ability Report, we take the next step forward in our Sustainability journey. Last year , we published our initial report, laying the foundation for our process, our programs, and our commitment to sustainabil-ity. In this report we demonstrate our strengthened commitment to sustainability and the positive change within our organization.
Over the last year , our program has gone from an 
ambitious beginning to become an important part  of how we do business. This includes increased  oversight around our efforts, and enhanced  partnership with our executive and senior leadership team, as well as our Board of Directors. Through  our efforts, we have also raised awareness and  understanding of sustainability among our global  employee population. Those efforts saw us identify and implement certain practices company-wide to promote improved environmental actions.  We remain committed to supporting our employees and communities where we live and work. We are proud of the progress we made in 2020, and our commitment to People, Planet, and Places grows as we build positive lasting impact for our employees, customers, and other key stakeholders.
4
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020The heart of our mission is to make meaningful 
differences in everyday life. The unique circum-stances of 2020 presented unprecedented challenges, and our global teams approached every obstacle as an opportunity to focus on our mission to better serve our customers, teams, and communities.  
I’m extremely proud that through the COVID-19 
pandemic, our global team strongly demonstrat-ed our innovative spirit to deliver on our mission to create and deliver extraordinary thermal solutions that make meaningful differences in everyday life, by improving health, wellness, comfort and energy efficiency.
Gentherm’s sustainability pillars are People, 
Planet, and Places. Our teams understand that sustainability is about more than just environ-mental activity. It’s at the root of our culture  and is a key to our success, our teams  understand the importance of putting People, Planet, and Places at the core of the business. 
At Gentherm, we strive for focused improvement 
based on our Winning Culture Behaviors:
• Cust omer Focus
•
 Empl
oyee Engagement and Inclusion
•
 Gl
obal Mindset
•
 P
erformance and AccountabilityOur Winning Culture Behaviors serve as our 
foundation and have guided our increasing focus on sustainability issues such as diversity, equity, and inclusion, environmental impact, and  human rights.
Sustainability is an ongoing journey. It is  
important that we continue to implement new initiatives that help advance Gentherm’s  sustainability and continue to create long term value for our stakeholders. This report outlines some of our recent accomplishments, including moving to align portions of our disclosure with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and describing how we believe our  efforts align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), as well as some  aspirations and performance targets for the coming years. 
As responsible global citizens, sustainability 
must be at the core of the business. In our 2020 Sustainability report, we demonstrate that we  do not want to just be a good company – we want to be a great company that does the right thing.
At Gentherm, we believe sustainability is not just 
about environmental impact, but instead covers a range of corporate activities that maintain or enhance the ability of a company to create value over the long term.ceo introduction
PHIL EYLER  
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Director , Board of Directors section  no. 2:
About Us
Our company overview
6
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020our history
OUR MISSION
Creating and delivering extraordinary thermal solutions that 
make meaningful differences in everyday life, by improving, health, wellness, comfort and energy efficiency.
  
Gentherm is a global developer of innovative thermal management 
technologies for a broad range of heating and cooling and tempera-ture control applications. By building on the foundations of thermal technology, we have created an organization that celebrates change and is constantly poised to capitalize on new market opportunities. And it’s been that way since the beginning. 
We first opened our doors in Southern California in 1991 as Ameri-
gon, investigating a broad spectrum of technologies, including  thermoelectric devices. We found technologies that were historically  applied in aerospace and defense could disrupt other industries,  including automotive.
By 1996 we introduced the first heated and cooled car seat based on 
our revolutionary thermoelectric technology. In the years that fol-lowed, consumers embraced greater comfort and efficiency, and we applied our technologies beyond climate controlled seats to include battery thermal management, electronics and interior comfort.         
         OUR PATH
1991 
Quickly established 
ourselves as a leader in thermoelectric technology.
1996  
Launch of the first heated and cooled automotive seat.
2011  
Continued organic growth enhanced by the acquisition of W.E.T . Automotive, a pioneer in seat heating since 1978.
2016  
Advanced our knowledge of thermophysiology with the acquisition of Cincinnati Sub-Zero, a leading provider of medical temperature management equipment.
2017  
Keeping an eye on the future, we acquired Etratech, an electronics market leader specializing in advanced electronic controls.
2018 to the Future 
F. A . S .T.  
Focused growth Aligned portfolio Sharpened execution T echnology leadershipSECTION 2 | ABOUT US7
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020our locations NORTH AMERICA
HQ – Northville, MI 
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Farmington Hills, MI 
(Engineering)
Burlington, ON 
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Cincinnati, OH 
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Del Rio, TX 
(Manufacturing, Sales and Support)
Acuña, Mexico 
(Manufacturing, Sales and Support)
Celaya, Mexico 
(Manufacturing)
EUROPE
Odelzhausen, Germany 
(Engineering, Sales and Support)
Stuttgart, Germany 
(Engineering, Sales, Manufacturing, Support)
West Midlands, UK 
(Sales and Support)
Pilisszentiván, Hungary 
(Engineering)
Vynohradiv, Ukraine 
(Manufacturing)
Prilep, North Macedonia 
(Manufacturing)
Ta’Xbiex, Malta 
(Sales and Support)
ASIA
Shanghai, China 
(Engineering, Sales and Support)
Langfang, China 
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Shenzhen, China 
(Manufacturing)
Hong Kong, China 
(Sales and Support)
Seoul, South Korea 
(Sales and Support)
Ulsan, South Korea 
(Sales and Support)
Chungcheongnam, South Korea
(Sales and Support)
Nagoya, Japan 
(Sales and Support)
T okyo, Japan 
(Sales and Support)
Hiroshima, Japan 
(Sales and Support)
Ha Nam, Vietnam 
(Manufacturing)We are proud to employ more than 11,000 employees as of December 
31, 2020, and generate nearly $1 billion in revenue for 2020. We  operate in 13 countries, including the United States, Germany,  Canada, China, Hungary, Japan, South Korea, North Macedonia, Malta, Mexico, United Kingdom, Ukraine and Vietnam. 
As a leader of innovative thermal management technologies, we 
understand and appreciate the important role we play in finding solutions that benefit the environment. 
Our mission is to create and deliver extraordinary thermal solutions 
that make meaningful differences in everyday life, by improving health, wellness, comfort and energy efficiency. Put simply, we are positively impacting people’s lives. T o do this, we must find innova-tive and socially responsible solutions that will help leave the world a better place for future generations. 25 
Locations13  
Countries11,000+ 
EmployeesSECTION 2 | ABOUT US8
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020our awards
“I’m very proud that Gentherm was named a General Motors supplier of the year . It’s an honor for any 
company, and for a Tier 2 supplier to win this award is even more special to our team. General Motors is 
one of our longstanding customers and continues to be an exceptional partner in developing and adapting 
new technologies. Winning the Supplier of the Year award with our largest customer is a testament to our 
commitment to deliver the highest level of quality and service. ”
PHIL EYLER  
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Director , Board of DirectorsAt Gentherm, we don’t do things just to win an  
award. However , awards and recognition can provide  external confirmation that our actions are making  a difference and that we are working toward the  right goals. 
In June of 2020, Gentherm was honored by General 
Motors and named as a recipient of the Supplier  of the Year award for 2019. This prestigious award is presented to the top 1% of the GM supply base.SECTION 2 | ABOUT US9
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020ADDITIONAL  2020 AWARDS
• Our Vietnam facility w as honored during the Vietnam HR Awards 2020 for Human Capital initiatives during the 
year , including our excellence in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Our site was one of just 10 companies 
to receive this award. 
•
 Shenzhen Bantian l
ocation was awarded General Motors “Supplier Quality Excellence” Award.
•
 Our sit
e in Odelzhausen, Germany  was awarded T op Employer for Engineering in 2020 – our  
seventh consecutive year winning a “T op Employer” award!
•
 Our l
ocation in Acuña, Mexico  was recognized by Ford as a Ford Q-1 supplier , Ford’s highest  
designation for suppliers.  
•
 Gentherm w
as also recognized in North America with the Honda Excellence in Value award,  
one of just 16 North American companies to be so honored.
SECTION 2 | ABOUT US: Our Awardssection  no. 3:
Sustainability Approach
11
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020SUSTAINABLE APPROACH
Sustainability is not just about environmental impact, it’s much bigger than that. We internally  
benchmark our efforts against our own set of sustainability metrics and objectives. In setting these  metrics and objectives, we were guided by various third-party reporting standards, frameworks, and  rating agencies.
As part of our annual process beginning in 2019, every Gentherm location submits information related 
to each of the components and criteria in our internal framework. T eams document the local policies and practices that align with the particular objective, submit the required environmental metrics, and detail the local initiatives that demonstrate their actions supporting our sustainability program. The data and information that we collect from around the globe is the basis of this report.
       THE GENTHERM SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK IS COMPRISED OF THREE PILLARS:
People
At Gentherm, our leaders treat 
employees with respect and provide a safe working environment. We provide career opportunities, development, support and more. People create our success.Places
As a global company, we strive to be a positive force in the communities where we do business. Our teams support an array of causes, including STEM education and training, provide financial support for local charities, and in 2020 made  donations for COVID-19 relief efforts. Types of community involvement and support vary across our sites, based on local needs and culture.Planet
We strive to minimize our environmental impact. Our product lineup reduces the environmental impact of automobiles through our innovative products and technologies, and we continue to improve our operations through more efficient use of resources and reduced emissions.
We know our Sustainability Framework has to adapt and grow along with our program.  As a result, 
in 2020, we updated and expanded the information we gather and track, including:
1.
 Natural gas usage and c
onsumption
2.
 Inf
ormation about solid waste disposal methods
3.
 L
ocal responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, including community supportSECTION 3 | SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH12
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020RAISING AWARENESS, FOSTERING 
SUPPORT, CREATING EXCITEMENT
Just having a great map will not get you to your 
destination. In order to continue to drive our  program forward, we also worked to expand our employees’ understanding and adoption of sustainability. In 2020, our team was already energized by the publication of our inaugural Sustainability Report, and CEO Phil Eyler  highlighted the report and our efforts at a  Gentherm Global T own Hall meeting. Hearing this message from the leader of the company clarified to all employees how vital sustainability is to our strategy and our future. We also  received strong feedback from outside of our company. Our leadership team heard from  major investors and stakeholders, offering  congratulations and appreciation for the  publication of our report, as well as suggestions and ideas for the future. The support from our global team and other stakeholders has  helped to further increase our enthusiasm around Sustainability.
“Over the last year , when we meet with investors and stakeholders to discuss 
Gentherm’s performance, Sustainability is often a topic of interest. As we have 
created a foundation for our program and chartered a path forward, the invest-
ment community is looking to learn more about what we are doing in this area. 
At Gentherm, sustainability is not just about environmental impact, it’s about 
the actions that we can take to help Gentherm create value over the long term. ”
YIJING BRENTANO
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations  
& Global Financial Planning and Analysis
SECTION 3 | SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH13
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP , DIRECTION, & GUIDANCE
T o ensure a strong future for our program, we have strengthened our Sustainability  
leadership structure – ensuring proper direction from the right levels within the Company.
First, we created the Environmental, Social, & Governance (ESG) Steering Committee. This committee  
is comprised of four members of Senior Leadership, as well as our Sustainability program leaders and key contributors from Manufacturing, Human Resources, and Corporate Strategy. This committee meets regularly, reviewing project status, environmental items such as target setting, internal and  external messaging, new policies or activities, and much more.
As stated in the proxy statement for our 2021 annual meeting of shareholders, the Nominating and  
Corporate Governance Committee is now responsible for oversight around Gentherm’s matters of  corporate responsibility and sustainability.  The committee reviews and provides feedback around all aspects of our Sustainability program on a quarterly basis, with a full Board of Directors review annually, at a minimum.
And making sure that we deliver on our commitments is not just something we talk about. In 2020,  
multiple members of senior leadership had specific sustainability related deliverables as part of their annual objectives, which in turn has a direct impact on their potential annual remuneration.  
 This report outlines many of our accomplishments, but it also raises the question of what’s next? Our 
team is continually examining our program to make sure it is robust and complete for today’s standards and tomorrow’s goals. T o support this, we have launched two major efforts to examine sustainability across the supply chain – looking at both our customers and our supply base.
The first effort involves studying sustainability among our customers – not just their requirements for 
vendors, but also their internal sustainability efforts and what they are looking to achieve. As part of the supply chain to our customers, we are part of their sustainability programs – so we are monitoring those customers to make sure that we align with where they are, and where they are planning to go.
SECTION 3 | SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH14
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020The second effort is a cross-functional project involving our Purchasing, Quality, and Compliance 
teams, all aimed at updating the requirements we push down to our suppliers and vendors. This team kicked off a project for a top-to-bottom update of key documents and practices for our vendors, with a specific focus on how we drive improved sustainability down our supply chain. These efforts include:
1.
 Updat
es to our Supplier Requirements Manual – strengthening Gentherm’s requirements for  
sustainability from our suppliers.
2.
 R
edesigning our Supplier Assessment process – adding additional focus on sustainability when  
selecting new vendors.  
3.
 C
omplete update of our Supplier Code of Conduct, transforming it into a Code of Conduct and  
Sustainability pledge.  
4. Dev
eloping a Supplier Sustainability Assessment process to allow us to perform detailed evaluation 
of suppliers’ efforts and progress around sustainability
These updates were initiated in 2020 and are expected to be phased in over the course of 2021 and beyond. Once in place, these changes should help us to provide clearer sustainability requirements to our supply chain, and should help our team to better evaluate the sustainability of our supply chain and how they align with our goals and ambitions in this area. 
SUSTAINABILITY IS A JOURNEY
As our program grows and evolves, Gentherm regularly looks to industry benchmarks and standards  for guidance and direction. In this report, we are excited to disclose information aligned with SASB standards for Auto Parts, where possible, and to demonstrate how our efforts align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) (see Appendix for details). We are also working towards alignment with additional standards such the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and others. We look to these and other outside sources for inspiration and guidance, under-standing that we still have opportunities to get better , but also to help us measure the progress we have made in just two years.
SECTION 3 | SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHsection  no. 4:
People
16
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
OUR TEAM
Our more than 11,000 colleagues in 25 locations around the world are at the heart of  
Gentherm’s success. 
We understand the importance of having a capable and engaged workforce to propel our success.  
Our team is comprised of leaders and innovators that believe in challenging the status quo and in  asking ‘why?’ Our relentless focus on our customers helps drive our ability to deliver solutions that make meaningful differences in everyday life.
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE17
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020“Having a robust strategy and 
focused approach to human 
capital management is an  
essential component of our  
path to success. For example,  
in just the first year our Diversity, 
Equity, + Inclusion Committee 
we gained terrific momentum 
and positive energy from our 
employees. I am impressed by 
the spirit of our employees and 
their focus on being a part of the 
change that will make us better . 
Our broad range of viewpoints  
across our global organization, 
dedication to capability building, 
and much more makes achieve-
ment of our mission that much more attainable. ” 
BARB RUNYON
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Human Resources Officerhuman  capital  
management
Our people are essential to our success and our  future, so making sure that we have a robust human  capital strategy is vital.  In addition to our dedicated Senior Leadership team, our Board and Board  committees provide oversight and guidance on human capital matters, helping to ensure that we have strong focus on a vital part of our success – our people.  Gentherm’s human capital strategy has four  key pillars: 
• T alent: Building a robust talent pipeline 
•
 Cultur
e: Having a future-focused culture 
•
 Capability
: Building the capability of our teams 
•
 HR Oper
ational Excellence: Providing a  
compelling employee value proposition  
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE18
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020EFFORTS AND RESPONSE
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Gen-
therm team acted quickly to ensure that our  employees and their families were safe and felt supported, we created and implemented a listening strategy to understand the needs of our employees, and leveraged local relationships within our  communities to provide a positive impact where we do business.  COVID-19 presented a unique set of problems, but with a dedicated team we developed our Safe Work Playbook to keep our employees  safe and allow us to continue to meet the needs of our customers. 
COMMUNICATION AND SAFE WORK PLAYBOOK
In early 2020, as the pandemic accelerated, our  team quickly took action to implement communica-tions and develop standard practices, based on  guidance from the CDC (Center for Disease Control) and the WHO (World Health Organization). We  developed and deployed standard practices across our locations – key steps included:
Establishing a Senior Leadership led global task-force, 
with almost-daily meetings and near-constant  communication and planning.  Launching regular ,  recurring communication from top leaders, includ-ing our CEO and our Chief Human Resources Officer . Communications included frequent information  updates about key topics and what to expect during this uncertain period.
The Gentherm Safe Work Playbook provided  
detailed safety measures and procedures for  employees around the world.  By providing clear protocols we were better able  to keep our employees safe and our locations  operating effectively.
covid  - 1919
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020MODIFIED WORK PROCEDURES / SCHEDULES
While Gentherm is an engineering and manufac-
turing company with large industrial operations around the globe, our team worked to quickly  identify opportunities to support remote work where possible. Each site was reviewed based on local work practices, the COVID-19 status in that area, local governmental guidance and more.  Location by location, leaders implemented  practices that supported safe working conditions. The agility of many of our people to quickly  transition to remote work was vital to our  2020 success.
While we moved to support remote work at many 
locations, that was not always feasible across  all areas of the company. At many of our locations, we made the tough but appropriate decision to shut down the site completely for periods of time. As important as it is for a company to maintain its production schedule, the safety and well-being of our employees took instant and clear precedence.
In other instances where remote work was not a 
feasible option, such as product testing or certain areas of research and development, we looked  for ways to implement locally appropriate steps to mitigate the risks. Establishing limits on meeting room capacities, suspending events that would drive the gathering of employees, such as cafeteria services, requiring masks when in buildings, and pre-screening employees prior to entry – all these steps helped us to establish safer in-building  practices when remote work was not an option.LISTENING TO EMPLOYEES
T reating our employees the right way doesn’t just mean giving them information and instructions,  we also have to listen to them and their concerns.  As the COVID-19 pandemic continued across the year , we developed and deployed our internal COVID-19 PULSE Survey. This survey was  delivered in May via email, and we received  thousands of responses.  
The findings of the PULSE Survey were used to 
guide our strategy and our approach to providing focused services to support our people.  Our PULSE Survey identified ways we could best support our employees, including financial well-ness resources, childcare / school support, mental health / stress, work-life balance, and others.
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE: COVID-1920
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
A diverse team, with different backgrounds, different personal and professional experiences, and  
different ways of looking at the world gives us – our company and our people – our best chance to  succeed. Creative thinking and problem solving helps us to deliver every day on our mission  statement – and having a team with different, diverse viewpoints helps us tackle challenges from  different angles.
diversity , equity  + inclusion  
council
T o further augment our employee value proposition we launched our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council.  With strong support from our Board and Senior Leadership, the council was formed to enhance a culture of belonging for all employees
Our Mission: Embracing diversity inspires innovation.  We are building an inclusive culture where we  
value our differences to positively impact the lives of our employees, customers and communities.  
Connect
Engage with our employees  
and provide a strong employee 
experience.Collaborate
Enhance our local  
communities where  
we operate.Cultivate
Enrich the capabilities and skills 
of our employees and acquire 
diverse talent.THE DE +I EFFORTS FOCUS ON THREE KEY AREAS
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE21
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020Although we are early in our journey, we are very pleased with the engagement, transparency and  
dialogue of our employees in being part of the solution to enhance our culture. Some of our major  accomplishments include: 
• Initial launch of unc onscious bias training for our leaders. 
•
 C
ompleting our first pay equity study and taking action to ensure equal pay for equal work. 
•
 F
ocused progress in talent acquisition and promotions of diverse employees. 
•
 Dev
eloping a detailed global calendar of events and educational webinars to spark dialogue and raise  
awareness of global events such as International Women’s Day, International Human Rights Day, World  
Mental Health Day and World Gratitude Day and more.  
We are confident, with the support of our Board, our leadership team and our employees that we can 
continue to leverage the strength of #OneGentherm across our global organization. 
Some of our future goals include examining our global policies to ensure consistency and equity,  
diversity accountability for our senior leadership team, strategic diversity recruiting efforts and global inclusion training for our salaried workforce. 
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE: Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Counsel22
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020women ’s network
Another program supporting our focus on a diverse and inclusive workforce is our Gentherm Women’s 
Network. Established in 2018, the Women’s Network is active at every major Gentherm location with  over 1,000 members, including strong support and engagement from our Senior Leadership.
In 2020, the Women’s Network facilitated and hosted programs and events that help create a strong, 
open culture at Gentherm, highlights include:
1.
 Launching our Ment
oring Program at the Northville, Odelzhausen and Vietnam locations.  
Through a formal mentoring program, Gentherm leaders and managers can help less  experienced employees navigate their career , make decisions about “what’s next”, and gain  valuable experience. In total, 24 formal mentor-mentee relationships were established,  with additional progress slated for 2021 as the program launches in additional locations. 
2.
 Hosting a “
Women in Engineering” panel, featuring Gentherm engineers sharing their experience 
and advice as women in the engineering field.
3.
 The W
omen’s Network also coordinated with our Human Resources team, to offer classes and 
sessions that include:
a. Leading with E Q (Emotional Quotient): Helping employees deal with stress and how you respond  
in the workplace.
b.
 Na
vigating Beyond Conflict: T raining employees to better deal with conflict in the workplace.  
We recognize that conflict doesn’t always need to be avoided and with proper training can even be  
healthy and help advance goals, build skills and more.
c.
 R
esilience in the Midst of Parenting:  With many employees working remote, the line between work  
and home became more blurred than ever . This class helped individuals learn about tools they  could use to deal with the challenges of parenting while also working remotely.
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE23
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
Events already planned for 2021 include speaker panels with diverse members which will include senior 
leadership, training classes on career development, working with others, and more.
In addition to the professional development and learning opportunities, the Women’s Network leads 
events to build relationships within the company or to support causes in the community.
Northville, USA led a food drive 
to support an organization that 
serves local families, specifically 
focusing on food assistance and 
emergency shelter support.Vynohradiv, Ukraine celebrated 
Embroidery Day, honoring a 
Ukrainian tradition - a symbol 
vital to local culture.Langfang, China held an on-site  
breast cancer awareness event. 
Medical specialists discussing pre-
vention and detection techniques.SECTION 4 | PEOPLE: Women’s Network24
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020learning  and development
Our Gentherm team members are our great strength and differentiator . In order to innovate and win in 
the marketplace, we must find unique ways to attract and retain top performing talent. 
In 2019, we launched the !MPACT leadership program, and throughout 2020 we continued to build on 
its success, training over 200 leaders globally. In 2020, we expanded the program to include core com-munications training for employees throughout the organization. We will continue to expand our training reach and curriculum to further support skill development in this quickly changing world. We continue to increase the variety of development resources available to help employees grow their careers within Gentherm. Offering competitive benefits and promoting work-life balance further allows us to retain employees and enables the greatest possible returns on our investments in talent.
THE !MPACT PROGRAM FOCUSES ON FOUR SKILLS THAT HELP BUILD GREAT LEADERS: 
Drive Change
Be Curious.  Speak Up. Share your experience  
and expertise.
Deliver Results
Prioritize work that achieves key goals.  Ask for help when you are stuck.Build Capability
Find opportunities to build your skill set.  Ask for  feedback about your work.
Focused Innovation
Be a source for new ideas. Be open minded and  think outside your “core” area.
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE25
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020OTHER PROFESSIONAL AND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS INCLUDED:   
Cyber / Information Security: With many employees moving quickly to a remote work situations,  
ensuring that our employees understand risks related to cyber security and information security was more important than ever in 2020. Partnering with a market leader in information security training,  we recorded over 8,000 training courses completions covering essentials such as password safety,  compromised business email, and phishing scams.
Continuing Education: Our Acuña team is proud to provide a program for local employees that have 
not completed high school to continue their education.  Working with our team at the site, our program helps employees complete their required studies and obtain their high school diploma. We are so proud of the 46 Gentherm employees that gained their high school diploma in 2020 through this program.
DiSC Assessments: Helping people understand their personal working and communication style  
is a powerful productivity tool. T o support this, our HR T eam delivered training on the DiSC  assessment process.  
Gentherm Connects Web-Series:  As working conditions changed throughout 2020, our HR team 
utilized internal surveys and other feedback to stay attuned to the needs of our employees. Using this feedback, we developed and launched a web-based training and learning events that gave our employ-ees tools to deal with some of the stress and unique circumstances of 2020. The Connect Web-Series included four important sessions:
 
Connect, Collaborate, Champion: T o ensure a strong team atmosphere, we worked to educate our people leaders on alternative ways to build teams, and how to keep people engaged and motivated in unique times. We focused our efforts on the “3 C’s”: 
connect  – Make sure that you are reaching out to your team members, sometimes just to  
check-in on their wellness. Remember than in an office setting, there is a sense of connection, 
try to emulate that in a virtual world.
collaborate  – Though you may be working remotely, remember to reach out to other  
departments and teams. That natural communication that happens in an office needs to be replicated when possible.
champion  – Make sure you recognize people and their hard work. In a remote setting, people 
may not be receiving positive feedback in a regular manner .  Be sure to speak up about the wins on your team – be sure to tell other teams about the successes of your employees.
Everyday Coaching:  Our Performance Management Process (PMP) utilizes an array of tools to evaluate 
performance, provide feedback regarding growth and learning opportunities, and coach each employee.  Our PMP process is built on driving our leaders to have both formal and informal discussions with their teams about goals, development opportunities, and career development. The process includes annual goal setting, check-in points, and formal year-end reviews. In addition to performance, we also measure and evaluate each employee’s modeling of our Winning Culture Behaviors. This structured program aims to provide continuous feedback to our employees, making sure we give them the tools and  opportunities to be their best team member .• Understanding Div ersity & Inclusion
•
 Building P
ersonal Resilience•  Thriving in Times of Change
•
 C
ommunicating Across CulturesSECTION 4 | PEOPLE: Learning and Development26
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020engaged  workforce
At the heart of our Winning Culture Behaviors is Employee Engagement and Inclusion. Across our 25 
locations, employees participate in a variety of corporate programming and locally customized activities. Our efforts generally focus on positively impacting our overall employee experience, diversity, safety and community efforts. 
Our employee listening strategy includes a global engagement survey to be completed in 2021 that will 
set the baseline for engagement levels of our 11,000 +employees and allow us to take action to build a  culture of inclusion, belonging and high performance. In addition to the global engagement survey,  we use “Thermal Check” employee roundtables to understand the perspectives and experiences of  our people.
Leveraging the results from our PULSE survey, we identified employee’s perspectives that our  
leadership then used to develop appropriate support to help around topics such as financial wellness resources, childcare / school support, mental health / stress, work-like balance, and others.  With a 98% response rate, the PULSE survey also highlighted our employees strong confidence (80% approval) related to company leadership and satisfaction with communication, support and resources needed to navigate through 2020.  Those results also helped us deploy employee support programs that focused on health and wellness – providing some stability in an uncertain time.
Reduced health risks by providing free flu  
vaccinations to all eligible employees:
Germany | Mexico | USADelivered general health screenings  
and wellness checkups for employees:
Mexico | China | Japan
Supported on-site cancer screenings and 
awareness regarding prevention & care:
Mexico | N. Macedonia | VietnamSupported on-site mental wellness  
and/or hearing & vision screening:
Mexico | Germany
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE27
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020code  of business   
conduct  and ethics
At Gentherm, we expect that our employees conduct 
themselves with the highest level of honesty and  integrity. The Gentherm Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics lays out what is expected of our employees, providing guidance and direction to employees across the organization, including our Executive Leadership T eam and our Board of Directors. The Code of Conduct covers a variety of topics including legal compliance, appropriate workplace  conduct, anti-corruption, gifts and gratuities, conflicts of interest, and much more.  
At every Gentherm location, the Code of Conduct is part of the new hire and employee orientation  
process. We make our Code of Conduct publicly available and available to our employees in  11 languages.
GENTHERM ETHICS HOTLINE  
We expect our employees to do the right thing – and that includes speaking up when they see  something that doesn’t align with our Code of Conduct or our values. T o support this, Gentherm  maintains a global, externally-hosted ethics hotline ( here)  that has options for reporting via telephone 
or website.  While our employees can also report issues directly to appropriate local management, our ethics hotline is another option, offering an anonymous, 24-hour per-day resource for employees to speak up. The Gentherm Code of Conduct outlines strict guidance prohibiting retaliation against any  employee that reports an issue in good faith.
In 2020 we launched a global awareness campaign to remind our employees of their responsibility and 
the resources available. Using email and in-site materials, we were able to remind employees of this important resource and refresh their understanding of our commitment.
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE28
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020In 2020 we improved our process for managing  
reported items. While employees may use the  Hotline to report concerns, we recognized that items may also be reported via other methods (for example, reported to local management). T o ensure robust management of all issues, we developed a cooperative process between Legal & Compliance and Human Resources whereby all potentially  significant issues, regardless of reporting source,  are channeled through a common process. Our Compliance team worked to train local staff on  the process, on investigation procedures, and more – ensuring that any significant issue we learn about is appropriately managed. This process was reported to, and supported by, our Audit Committee and our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 
Reporting to these committees helps to provide  
our leadership with additional detail and clarity around the issues and concerns that we identify  and investigate.
ANNUAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST SURVEY
Gentherm’s annual Conflict of Interest and Business Ethics Survey is another tool we deploy to help  educate and remind our employees about the  importance of doing business the right way. This survey is delivered to every active “Gentherm.com” email, is available in 10 languages, and covers topics such as legal compliance, workplace conduct &  harassment, insider trading, import-export &  embargoed nations, bribery & corruption, and more.  All survey results are reviewed by our Compliance team, and any potential issues or concerns are fully investigated and reported to appropriate leadership.“2020 was a challenging and 
unique year , but one area that  
remained absolutely consistent 
was our commitment to doing 
business the right way. At  
Gentherm, we work hard to let  
our employees know what we  expect of them, and what to do  
if they see something that isn’t 
right. In 2020, we continued 
our activities around managing 
Conflicts of Interest, we launched 
awareness campaigns to remind 
employees about channels for 
speaking up. At Gentherm,  
doing business the right way is 
the only way we know. ”
MATTEO ANVERSA
Executive Vice President,  
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurers
SECTION 4 | PEOPLE: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics29
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
human  rights
At Gentherm, we believe in treating all people  
with dignity and respect. Our Code of Conduct  clearly states our stance against harassment and  discrimination. T o further clarify our position, in 2020 Gentherm published our new Global  Human Rights  policy ( here). 
This policy was developed to clarify and emphasize our position on harassment, forced labor , child labor , safe working conditions, labor practices, and more. This policy was launched on December 10 – the  annual United Nations Global Human Rights Day. The policy was introduced to our employees around the world via internal communication channels and announced publicly on Gentherm’s social media channels and our website. 
As a company with manufacturing sites in econom-
ically developing locations, we are aware of the risks that improper business conduct could have on individuals, either at our locations or throughout our supply chain. Gentherm takes those risks seriously. Regardless of location, we expect our employees to operate with the highest level of respect for all people and their well-being. This includes providing competitive, market driven compensation for all employees, and ensuring that we operate in line with applicable labor regulations and standards. As part of our annual sustainability survey, each location is required to outline the local steps and procedures they take to ensure that we follow the highest stan-dards related to our workforce and that we always operate in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
CONFLICT MINERALS
Gentherm takes our commitment to the Conflict Minerals process seriously.  We conduct annual due diligence on the source and chain of custody of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TG) and ensure compliance with U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission rules governing the reporting of sourc-es of 3TG used when producing our products.SECTION 4 | PEOPLE30
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020safety  – vision  zero  
At Gentherm, Safety is an essential part of our culture and our values. The safety of our employees,  
visitors to our buildings, and anyone else we interact with is of the absolute highest priority.  As a guiding principle for safety, our global operations team and their leaders at each site follow the principles of the Vision Zero initiative, providing our guiding principles for safety.
Vision Zero is a globally recognized approach and mindset that aims to eliminate 100 percent of work 
accidents and injuries.  Around the globe, our leaders aspire to that goal by aligning with the Vision Zero Seven Golden Rules:
With this focus on safety, we have driven great progress -- since 2018, our lost time work case accidents 
have declined by over 75 percent.  Making sure that our safety efforts measure up to the appropriate standards and practices is important to us.  Over 50% percent of Gentherm employees operate in facilities that are OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 certified, with additional locations planned for future certification. 1.
 Leadership C
ommitment with a  
T op-Down Approach
2.
 Identify All Hazar
ds and Risks
3.
 Set Saf
ety and Health Targets4. Ensur
e a Safety System/ Standards
5.
 Use Saf
e and Healthy T echnology
6.
 Impr
ove Qualification
7. In
volve People
0.27
0.15
0.08
00.050.10.150.20.250.3
0510152025303540
2018 2019 2020Safety Metrics
Non-Recoverable Incidents Lost Work-Time Incidents Lost Time Case RateSECTION 4 | PEOPLEGentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
section  no. 5:
Our Planet
32
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020Protecting the environment is not the responsibility 
of any one person, one company, or one industry.   It is the responsibility of everyone. At Gentherm, our products are intended to break the boundaries between “what is” and “what is possible. ” We  strive to produce products that deliver great  customer experiences and create long-term value for our stakeholders, all in a manner that aligns  with protecting the environment.  
Energy efficiency and the shift towards vehicle  
electrification are major trends in the automotive  industry. Gentherm is excited to be at the forefront of key technologies that support the future of  transportation. Whether it’s a traditional internal combustion, a hybrid, a full electric powertrain,  our technologies improve the overall experience  of owning a vehicle. Research has shown that  Gentherm’s products can reduce CO2 output per mile and increase e-vehicle range. We are contrib-uting to a faster march towards electrification by bringing innovative solutions to the table that help  address potential issues, all while improving  passenger comfort.  
“As we, and other companies in 
the auto industry, see the land-
scape of transportation shifting 
towards electrification, we are 
excited to be on the leading edge of key components that drive that shift.  With our global engineering team, a deep knowl-edge around thermal activities 
and thermal comfort, and an absolute commitment to being an industry thought-leader , we 
believe that Gentherm is poised 
to play a key role in the future  
of transportation. ”
MATT FISCH
Senior Vice President,  
Chief T echnology Officer
SECTION 5 | OUR PLANETplanet  metrics
In order to drive resource efficiency throughout Gentherm’s operations, we of course need to measure 
our activities and understand the data . The information below summarizes key environmental metrics in terms of quantity, as well as their intensity (usage versus revenue). Measuring resource usage versus revenue is a valuable way to understand our efficiency - as Gentherm grows, we expect to see changes in total resources, but by measuring efficiency, we get a more accurate picture of our efforts to minimize our environmental impact.
1
2
1. Other than minor / pilot program solar power projects at select locations, 100% of Gentherm’s electricity is purchased from local municipal      
     sour
ces, AKA the local power grid.
2. All water usage is provided by local municipal services, including being withdrawn from local sources per municipal services standard practices.
3. All metrics disclosed are 2020 usage. Intensity measurements (Unit / $ Mil Rev.) calculated using 2020 revenue38% Total electricity usage:
MWH = 46,426
*Total Water Usage:
121,971 Cubic Meters 
 = 9.5%  4,424 MWH  
of our electricity use 
came from renewable resources in 202050.8 MWH / $Mil Rev.
7 .0 MT / $ Mil Rev.
133.6 M3 / $ Mil Rev.1.4 MT / $ Mil Rev. 29.6 MT / $ Mil Rev.
Approx. 9.5% of all electricity consumed 
is generated from renewable sources.  Considering only at sites that are able to ascertain the generation sources of their purchased electricity, those sites average 19.5% from renewable sources.Scope 1 GHG Emissions:  
1,258 MT CO2Scope 2 GHG Emissions:  
26,992 MT CO2SECTION 5 | OUR PLANET Gentherm Sustainability Report | 202034
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS
As part of our sustainability efforts, Gentherm is establishing 
environmental targets against which we can measure our  performance related to resource intensity across key metrics.  These targets were developed using benchmarking and  comparisons to peer organizations, as well as consultation  with outside resources. As part of establishing targets, we have selected 2019 as our baseline, with all progress to be measured against our metrics as of that point in time.
“We are so excited for the  
development and launch of our 
first ever global environmental 
improvement targets. While 
Gentherm sites have long 
tracked their progress locally, these targets represent a big  
step forward as we take a broad 
view of our company’s actions 
around environmental impact. 
As we developed these targets, 
we compared our present  
status to external benchmarks 
as well as select peers. We found 
we compared favorable to many 
peers, but we still see opportuni-
ty for improvement. I am excited 
by the hard work of our team 
and proud to demonstrate the commitment and progress. ”
RAFAEL BARKAS
Senior Vice President,  
Global Operations and Supply Chain
Electricity Usage T otal - MWH
Metric:  
Electricity Usage - MWH / $Mil. Rev.Baseline
2019Year 1
2020Year 2
2021Year 3
2022Year 4
2023Year 5
2024Year 6
2025Year 7
2026Target 
MetricPresent 
StatusImprov. 
GoalImprov. to 
DateStatus
49,837
51.346,427
50.847.7 50.8 7% 0.9%*working/ 
 on track
*For all metrics, even those noted as “Achieved”, we will continue to monitor our progress versus baseline and towards our targets.   
We believe that the impact of COVID-19 on business operations in 2020 may have resulted in metrics that are outliers / non-normal, and hence may we may see reversions or data variance over the short term.
Metric:  
Waste to Recycling as a Percent of Total Waste33.6% 38.2%Waste to Recycling total - Metric T ons 2,534 2,462
35.9% 38.2% 7% 13.9%*target 
achieved
Hazardous Waste T otal - Metric T ons
Metric:  Hazardous Waste - Metric Tons / $Mil. Rev.45
0.04633
0.0370.043 0.037 7% 21.0%*target 
achieved
  Water Usage T otal - Cubic Meters
Metric:  Water Usage - Cubic Meters / $ Mil Revenue141,236
145.3127 ,626
139.8135.2 139.8 7% 3.8%*working/ 
on trackSECTION 5 | OUR PLANET Gentherm Sustainability Report | 202035
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020making  a difference
We encourage environmental best practice sharing and learning from other locations around the  
world, but we also recognize that each site has unique requirements, so we encourage our people to  take appropriate actions that align with local needs  – a “think global, act local” mindset.
While Gentherm’s manufacturing processes are not water intensive, that doesn’t mean we aren’t focused 
on reducing our water usage. Water is an important resource and access to it is a fundamental human right, so we focus on reducing water usage as part of our drive towards resource efficiency.  
Mexico is classified by the World Resources Institute as a “High Water Stress” country. Our Operations 
team determined that 97% of water usage in Mexico is for sanitary and cafeteria usage which  somewhat limits our opportunity to reduce consumption, but we’re committed to maximizing efficiency where we can, so our Mexico plants have invested in upgrades to  flush-less / dry bathroom facilities and low-flow & automated water faucets. SHENZHEN, CHINA increased  
cooling production process  temp from  6.5 ºC to 9 ºC.  
Reducing electricity  
needed while maintaining  
effectiveness.SHENZHEN, CHINA -  
At this electronics manufacturing site, over 80% of all solid waste
 
is sent for recycling
  LANGFANG, CHINA  
& MEXICO installed  automated faucetsSHENZHEN, CHINA  uses recylced / reclaimed water for their cooling test.
In Del Rio, T exas, the team launched a project to investigate water usage, identifying water leaks that 
were subsequently repaired, as well as updating all internal plumbing systems.MEXICO, HUNGARY , VIETNAM, UKRAINE, & CHINA  have been  
replacing fluorescent bulbswith the latest LED Lighting in their  
24 hour facilitiesSECTION 5 | OUR PLANET36
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020When it comes to electricity use, we examine every angle, whether it’s lighting or industrial equipment, to 
further our drive towards efficiency.
CELAYA, MEXICO implemented 
shutdown program by turning off air-conditioning, equipment, and lighting during non-use. 16% decrease in energy from 2019 to 2020NORTHVILLE, USA enrolled in a renewable energy program with local provider . 17.5% of buildings electricity comes from renewable resources.
VYNOHRADIV, UKRAINE plant, the team has modified processes  
to use more environmentally friendly products, including replacing lead-containing solder with a lead-free version.
While Gentherm’s manufacturing processes produce low levels of hazardous waste, we continue to  
look for ways to reduce it even further .  
At our site in Langfang, we had two examples of these efforts. In one situation, the team had tradition-
ally used hydrochloric acid in their testing procedures. As the acid is a restricted substance, the team identified an external source that could provide a more environmentally friendly alternative. In another circumstance, a customer required testing process that included a restricted chemical. Our team worked with the customer , suggesting updates to the testing process, that allowed us to eliminate the restricted chemical, replacing it with a simple, environmentally friendly alternative.
Environmental actions are not always free and driving improved energy efficiency can often require a 
financial investment. 2020 was a challenging year , and as a result some projects were delayed or  reconsidered, however we did continue to make investments in energy efficiency. While teams around the world continued to upgrade to LED lighting, they also implemented some other small but important energy efficiency projects, investing over $35,000 on key initiatives.
Vietnam began 
installing solar 
power equipmentNorthville, Hungary  
& Malta updated air  
conditioning unitsLangfang installed  
exterior lighting powered 
by solar photovoltaic setupMalta upgraded  
computer monitors to 
high efficiency unitsSECTION 5 | OUR PLANET: Making a Difference37
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020iso - 14001
We take our commitment to sustainability seriously, and one great way to make sure that we are  
meeting basic standards is to look to outside certification. As a result, the ISO-14001 certification  is a key measurement for us, especially for our manufacturing locations.
In 2020, approximately 80% of our employees worked at locations that are ISO-14001 certified.  
Previously stated plans to achieve additional ISO-14001 certifications were altered in 2020 due to  operating requirements driven by COVID-19.  However , that short term delay has not altered our  long-term plans. Our only non-certified major manufacturing location is scheduled to complete  their certification process in 2021, which would increase the percent of employees at certified  locations to over 90%. 
planet  risks
While Gentherm is taking strong and measurable actions to minimize our environmental impact,  our team acknowledges that we have opportunities to improve. Each one of our sites, whether they  are manufacturing locations, engineering buildings or sales offices, all have an impact on the  environment. They each use resources such as water and electricity, and they all generate some  level of solid waste. We understand the risk this poses to the environment, and our team is  dedicated to continuing to improve and get better . We will keep working to adapt and improve our  processes and our products so that we minimize our environmental impact. 
SECTION 5 | OUR PLANET38
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020“Our automotive technologies provide unique solutions to the industry in the 
areas of occupant comfort, electronics and battery performance systems.   
Gentherm’s global sales team is excited for the opportunity to meet with  
customers to discuss how we can partner with them to develop and deliver  
best in class systems. We are so proud of the development work we are  
doing in these areas, that will undoubtedly help to change and improve cars  
in the future’”
PAUL GIBERSON
Senior Vice President,  
Global Sales
our technologies  
The future of transportation lies in vehicle electrification, with studies forecasting electrified vehicles 
(mild hybrid, full hybrid, and battery electric), representing over 50% of the total production in less  than 10 years. With our product portfolio, we believe that we are well positioned to be a major driver  and thought-leader in the areas of vehicle energy efficiency and occupant comfort, both for the present in vehicles powered by internal combustion engines as well as electrified vehicles.
Whether it’s our Climate Controlled Seats or our innovative ClimateSense system, we are part of  
making vehicles more efficient.  From our Battery Performance Systems division, to our innovative  cell connecting technologies, the future of vehicle electrification is coming, and we are helping to  deliver it.
Our dedicated and high-performing team at Gentherm Medical continue to design, develop, and  
introduce medical products that leverage Gentherm’s knowledge and experience in temperature  management.  
Across our product portfolio, Gentherm technologies are positioned to deliver on our  
mission statement;
Making meaningful differences in everyday life, by improving health, wellness,  
comfort and energy efficiency.
SECTION 5 | OUR PLANET39
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020GENTHERM AUTOMOTIVE 
Climate Control Seats (CCS): Gentherm’s CCS seating products include CCS-A (Active) and CCS-V  
(Vent). Both products employ patented technologies to provide heating and cooling / venting through  the seating surfaces, delivering optimal passenger comfort while reducing overall vehicle energy needs compared to traditional HVAC and thermal management systems. The National Renewable Energy  Laboratory, part of the U.S. Department of Energy, has conducted testing which verifies that a vehicle using Gentherm’s CCS products have lower CO2 output rates (per mile driven, under similar conditions) than those that are not similarly equipped.
Note: G/Mile = Grams of CO2 reduced per mile driven when system is active.3.5
G/Mile4.4
G/MileCCS - A
CCS - V1.5
G/Mile2.0
G/Mile
If Gentherm’s CCS-V products were part of every light vehicle sold in 2020 in the United States, over their 
average useful life, they would emit approximately 984 Million KG LESS Carbon Dioxide than the same 
vehicle without CCS products.  CCS-A would more than double that impact to 2.2 Billion KG.
984 Million KG of CO 2 reduction is equivalent to:
Note: Calculation based on US 2020 market of 15,000,000 vehicles, 50/50 car/truck split, CCS seats in use for 25% 
of mileage, and average useful vehicle life of 150,000 miles.5,400 railcars worth  
of coal burned110,000,000 gallons of 
gasoline consumed
167,000 homes electricity 
use for one year2,300,000 barrels 
of oil125,000,000,000 
smartphones charged13,000 tanker trucks’ 
worth of gasolineSECTION 5 | OUR PLANET: Our T echnologies40
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020CLIMATESENSE™
Gentherm’s ClimateSense system is based on cutting edge hardware operating in coordination with  
advanced software algorithms, all working to deliver personalized comfort through localized heating and cooling of the individual.  ClimateSense provides a better , more efficient approach to thermal  comfort which means improved vehicle energy efficiency.
Through a major study with General Motors, Gentherm was able to confirm and quantify the energy 
savings from ClimateSense as compared to an electric central HVAC system.
 
Over 50-69%
energy savingscold  weather  testing :  
(-7c)
 
Over 34%
energy savingshot weather  testing : 
(25c with  850 w/m2 solar  load )
(Also translates to electric vehicle range extension – adding 
approximately 50 miles to the range)
Note: T esting conducted on a mass market EV, based on two occupants in vehicle.
The changing landscape of transportation, including ridesharing, electrification and autonomous  
vehicles, is driving a need to redesign the interior of a vehicle. However , when we look at the interior  cabin of today’s vehicles, the HVAC and thermal management systems, while greatly improved, are  still designed and built on the same general structure that’s been in place for the last 50 years. Our  ClimateSense™ system demonstrates that we can drive a major change in how to deliver thermal  comfort, and it can be the solution that meets the industry’s needs – including goals of increased  electric vehicle range and energy savings, while creating the overall passenger experience that will  meet the demands of consumers.
SECTION 5 | OUR PLANET: Our T echnologies41
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020“As vehicle electrification  
continues to gain momentum, 
we are so excited to be on the 
forefront of developing and  
delivering technologies that  
continue to advance the 
 efficiency and effectiveness of 
this new era of transportation.  
We like to say that without  
CCBs, you can’t have electric  
vehicles – and we believe that 
our CCBs are among the best, 
most advanced, most environ-
mentally friendly versions  
available today”
THOMAS STOCKER
Senior Vice President and General 
Manager , Global Automotive
CELL CONNECTING BOARDS (CCB)
In an EV, the power comes from a large number  of individual battery cells working together .  Organized in series and parallel, those individual battery cells play a critical role in the performance and safety of the vehicle.  Within the battery pack, our Cell Connecting System provides a reliable  and continuous flow of temperature and cell voltage information during the charging and discharging process, ensuring performance and safety. 
As for environmental impact, Gentherm’s CCB  
technology is a big step forward versus legacy applications. Gentherm utilizes a process that  eliminates the use of acids and other chemicals  that have been used for chemical etching, as well  as utilizing aluminum that is readily recyclable.
BATTERY PERFORMANCE SOLUTIONS (BPS)
Gentherm’s BPS product portfolio includes systems that improve the performance of the battery packs  in hybrid-electric vehicles by heating a battery during cold conditions and cooling it during warm conditions. This temperature management  technology increases the life of a battery pack,  reducing waste by extending the useful life of the battery and delaying the need to recycle or dispose of the battery. 
SECTION 5 | OUR PLANET: Our T echnologies42
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020“At Gentherm Medical, we are excited to be able to help patients during these  
trying times. Our thermal management products offer accurate patient  
temperature management which is an essential part of managing COVID-19 
patients. We are proud to develop and produce medical devices that truly  
make a difference to these patients in need. ”
STEVE FLETCHER
Senior Vice President and  
General Manager , Medical
GENTHERM MEDICAL  
2020 has been a challenging year and with the rise of COVID-19, the Gentherm Medical business experienced increased demand for the Blanketrol® III. This system can be used to raise, lower or maintain a patient’s temperature. With COVID-19 patients, fever is a key concern and the Blanketrol® III can help caregiv-ers manage those patient’s temperatures accurately. While fever can be beneficial when the body is naturally fighting an infection, studies in ICU patients have shown that  fever control reduces oxygen demand and preserves organ tissue oxygenation during shock.  The Blanketrol® III can help reduce a patient’s fever without the risk of invasive devices.
T o learn more about COVID-19 patients and how Gentherm can assist, our medical team  
conducted a survey targeting US Acute Care Hospitals on how their clinicians were treating  high temperatures in their patients. The results showed thermal management devices  contributed to the positive outcomes of some of these covid-19 patients. 
• 64% of facilities tr eating COVID-19  patients have a protocol for fever and believe  
it is helpful to have in times like this.  
•
 100% of r
espondents said that medication is the first treatment of choice for fever . 
•
  62% used activ
e cooling methods to treat their COVID-19  patients when traditional  
methods like medication and ice were not effective. 
•
  80% Of those c
aregivers said that active cooling had a positive impact on the  
patient’s outcome. 
 At Gentherm we are proud to be able to contribute to helping save the lives of these high  risk COVID-19 patients. As we continue to design and develop thermal management devices,  we take with us what we have learned this year from the pandemic and how we can improve  our technologies to help in other medical areas.  
SECTION 5 | OUR PLANET43
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020section  no. 6:
Places
44
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020being  a part  of  
our community
At Gentherm, we work to be a positive force in the communities where we do business. That often  
includes efforts to support local charities or educational organizations, however , in 2020, most of our efforts pivoted to the way we felt we could best help our communities: by supporting efforts to  help those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. While our Gentherm team established safe working  procedures and practices for our employees, we also looked for ways to help those in our communities.  
One of the best ways we found to provide support was to help healthcare facilities and healthcare  
workers get the equipment and supplies they needed.
ACUÑA, MEXICO
With items used to treat and protect individuals from COVID-19 in high demand at medical facilities,  our team in Acuña, Mexico was able to support their local hospitals by donating antibacterial gel,  antibacterial soap, bleach, packages of protective equipment and protective suits. The materials  were procured and collected by Gentherm, and then distributed to local hospitals in need. 
NORTH MACEDONIA
T o help front-line workers, our team in North Macedonia donated needed equipment for the Prilep General Hospital’s new Urgent Care Center .  Donations included: computers, computer desks, chairs, furniture for the nursery room and 2,000 medical masks. 
The Engineering and Purchasing teams in North Macedonia saw an opportunity to use a 3D printer  
located at our facility to print safety visors for doctors, nurses and healthcare workers at their local  hospital. In less than one week, the team was able produce and provide their first set of safety visors  to a hospital in Makedonski Brod. Another hospital in the local community was in need of support for their neonatology department – and our team stepped up, providing a donation of 20 baby beds,  bedding supplies, and more.
HUNGARY
The National Koranyi Institute of Pulmonology was designated by the Hungarian government as one  of the key hospitals in the fight against COVID-19. Healthcare workers at the site did not have a  separate washing machine and dryer to use at work, which meant that their uniforms had to be taken into their homes to be cleaned and disinfected after their shifts. Our team in Hungary saw an  opportunity to help the medical team fighting against COVID-19 and donated equipment including a washing machine, dryer , dishwasher and more.
The Primary and Grammar School for Visually Impaired Children in Debrecen, Hungary supports  
students from across the country who are blind or visually impaired. The challenges of educating from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic hit this community harder than others because the school utilizes special programs and machines that most families cannot afford to have in their home. The Gentherm Hungary team was able to help some of these students by donating four new laptops to the school to be distributed to families who need them. SECTION 6 | PLACES45
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020“In 2020, the pandemic affected 
essentially every business and 
every community in the world.  
I am so proud of our team at 
Gentherm and how we respond-
ed across our locations to be a 
positive force in our communi-
ties.  Whether it was our teams in 
North America, Europe, or Asia, 
the Gentherm spirit really shined 
in 2020.  I think that kind of ac-
tivity encapsulates the strength 
of our team here at Gentherm. ”
HUI (HELEN) XU
Senior Vice President and General 
Manager , Global Electronics
GERMANY
Our team in Germany donated 2,000 face masks to the Einkaufshilfe Odelzhausen. Einkaufshilfe is a volunteer service run by Odelzhausen’s fire brigade that assists at-risk individuals. Additionally, the team donated a package including 1,000 face masks, dis-infectants, protective goggles, disposable gowns and disposable gloves to Die Wiege, a home for children with disabilities. 
UKRAINE
Our team in Ukraine supported a local hospital by providing necessary protective equipment including masks, glasses, shields and suits for hospital  employees. The donation also included disinfec-tants, rubbing alcohol and respirators, a key piece of equipment for patients with COVID-19. 
VIETNAM
With schools closed, local children moved to  learning online, however , some local students did not have the necessary technology. T o help support these students, the Gentherm team distributed smartphones to disadvantaged students from the Bach Thuong Elementary School in the town of  Due Tien. These smartphones will help them stay connected and participate with online learning. The team also donated sets of workbooks for Grade 1 students, ensuring that they are able to practice their writing skills.
NORTHVILLE
The pandemic’s effects threatened a local charity’s ability to provide support and services for kids and families in crisis. T o ensure that the organization could continue their operations, providing important services to those in need, Gentherm made a financial donation to this important cause.SECTION 6 | PLACES: Being A Part of Our Community46
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020IT’S NOT ALWAYS WHAT WE CAN DONATE,  IT’S ALSO WHAT WE CAN DO
With a global engineering team and innovative products in thermal management and an exemplary 
medical products division, our employees leveraged all available resources to help in a variety of ways during the pandemic – aligning perfectly with our mission statement – “to make meaningful differences in everyday life. ”
The Gentherm team collaborated with the Ford Electrical Engineering team to design and manufacture 
a sophisticated electronics solution for the Ford PAPR (Powered Air-Purifying Respirators). The PAPR is designed to help protect health care professionals on the front lines of COVID-19 by offering protection against respiratory hazards with integrated head, eye and face protection.
Our engineers worked with the Ford Engineering team to develop a battery management system to 
monitor the state of battery health and charge. The system tracks battery voltage to ensure the blower delivers the required airflow, and in the event a low battery notifies the health care profession of the need to service the battery. The strong commitment from the team to go the extra mile meant the entire design cycle from concept to production was executed in three weeks.
As a result of the rapid increase of patients affected by COVID-19, Gentherm Medical experienced an 
increase in demand of its production of Blanketrol® devices. The Blanketrol is a hyper-hypothermia device that is used to help maintain or change a patient’s temperature with the use of a Kool-Kit or water blankets. These blankets or wraps are placed around the patient and temperature-controlled water is circulated through them to help regulate a patient’s temperature. While fever can be beneficial when the body is naturally fighting an infection, studies in ICU patients have shown that fever control reduces oxygen demand and preserves organ tissue oxygenation during shock. The Blanketrol can help reduce a patient’s fever without the risk of invasive devices.
When demand soared in 2020, our team in Cincinnati didn’t hesitate to pitch in to support the needs.  
Working almost around the clock for weeks on end, our team was able to deliver near-record quantities of the Blanketrol products, knowing that our efforts helped support the life-saving work of medical personnel on the front-line of the pandemic. The team at Gentherm is so proud of the work our Medical team has completed and stands ready to continue to support the cause as needed.
SECTION 6 | PLACES: Being A Part of Our CommunityGentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
section  no. 7:
Stakeholders & Supply Chain48
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020stakeholders  & supply  chain
Our vision of a sustainable present and future is  not limited to just our sites and our people, we are also 
working to ensure that throughout our supply chain we hold all stakeholders accountable. We want all of our business partners to have a sustainability stance that aligns with Gentherm’s values, and that is  focused on continuous improvement.  
T o help provide clarity and directions for our supply base, Gentherm publishes two key documents, our 
Supplier Code of Conduct and our Supplier Requirements Manual – both are available here. These two documents provide guidance and requirements to our suppliers around key topics such as:
• Health and S afety topics
•
 R
estrictions against corruption, bribery, and extortion
•
 L
abor and Human Rights, including child labor and human trafficking
•
 Gentherm
’s right to audit and review their operations across a range of topics 
Our updated process will provide additional guidance and requirements to vendors, will enhance our already active vendor pre-screen process, and more. We expect to see these enhancements phased in starting this year .
Another way we asses our stakeholders and our supply chain is with regard to supplier diversity. The 
Gentherm Supplier Diversity Supplier program works to increase the diversity of our purchasing spend. Whether it’s productive materials, non-productive materials, or purchased services, Gentherm seeks to drive working to drive supplier diversity and inclusiveness.
SECTION 7 | STAKEHOLDERS & SUPPLY CHAIN49
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
section  no. 8:
Governance50
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020“Here at Gentherm, we are 
leveraging good Governance 
practices as we build our Sus-
tainability program and expand 
our efforts on the Environmental 
and Social aspects.  In 2020, we 
added Board level and Senior 
Leadership structure to provide 
oversight and guidance, and to ensure that our Sustainability 
program is delivering on our 
objectives.  We also believe in 
strong, transparent corporate 
practices to ensure that we align 
our efforts with stakeholder expectations, while continuing to deliver o our mission and success 
as a company. ”
WAYNE KAUFFMAN
Senior Vice President,  
General Counsel and Secretary
We believe that a strong, sustainable company is built on  a foundation of corporate governance. Our corporate  governance structure is designed to support who we are today, as well as where we want to go in the future – and making sure we do it in the right way.
As discussed in this report and in our annual Proxy  
Statement, we have expanded oversight, leadership and  accountability of our ESG program in our Board meetings and through the ESG Steering Committee led by Senior Leadership. We have strengthened our Ethics Hotline through targeted employee communications and human  resources training. It is our goal, and in the best interest  of our stakeholders, to be transparent in our actions and  in reporting, as demonstrated through our disclosures  and statements aligning with SASB standards and UN  SDG principles. 
Our Executive Leadership T eam, including our Chief Execu-
tive Officer and our Board of Directors are held to the  highest standards. We expect and demand full compliance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our corporate governance policies, all applicable laws, and our Winning  Culture Behaviors.
For more information on our Corporate Governance structure 
and practices, refer to our annual Proxy Statement, or visit our Governance section on Gentherm.com ( here).
SECTION 8 | GOVERNANCE51
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020section  no. 9:
2021 Plans & Commitments
52
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020
“With this, our second sustainability report, we are pleased to show the progress 
we’ve made over the last 12 months – not just on our accomplishments, but  
also around the overall trajectory of our program. With the inclusion of external  
components such as SASB-aligned disclosures and the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals, we know our program will one day be a model 
and benchmark in the industry. We have come a long way in a short time, and  
yet we’re just getting started. ”
JAYMI WILSON
Senior Vice President, Strategy,  
Marketing and CommunicationsSustainability is an evolving journey, and Gentherm is excited for where we are going. People, Planet  and Places are not just three words, they encapsulate a commitment from our team. By continually working to improve on these three pillars, we can help drive forward on our mission as well as support our activities that aim to create long-term value for our stakeholders.
In 2021, we are focused on steps to drive our program to a more mature status. Like any major initiative 
that touches every part of the organization, building initial momentum is the first step. Now that we have the momentum, we’re planning how to sustain it and move forward.  Our 2021 plans include:
• Incr easing alignment with industry standards such as SASB and TCFD, including transparent disclosures  
of key data and processes.
•
 Impl
ementing additional risk and opportunity assessment procedures for our program, including  
integration with our Enterprise Risk Management process and evaluation of potential financial impacts  
related to sustainability.
•
 In
vestigating trends and opportunities around carbon neutrality and developing a corporate strategy  
for future actions.
•
 Ensuring that our o
verall strategic vision for sustainability aligns with our stakeholders, shareholders,  
customers, and our supply chain. Having a long-term vision and roadmap will help ensure our success.
If you have any questions of need further information, please visit our website at Gentherm.com or email 
our team at Sustainability@Gentherm.com.SECTION 9 | 2021 PLANS & COMMITMENTS53
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020appendix
SAFETY DEFINITIONS:
Lost-Work Time Incidents: Any injury to health as a result of a one-time event with an impact of more 
than 1 day of absence, also includes injuries due to transportation in company-provided transportation or accidents during business trips.  Also includes non-employee accidents / injuries on a Gentherm site.  Lost-time accidents only includes “recoverable” accident, in which the person will fully recover from accident / injury.
Non-Recoverable Incidents:  Any injury to health as a result of a one-time event with an impact of  
more than 1 day of absence, also includes injuries due to transportation in company-provided  transportation or accidents during business trips.  Also includes non-employee accidents / injuries on a Gentherm site.  Non-Recoverable accidents indicate permanent injury in which the individual will not / may not fully recover .
Lost Time Case Rate (LTCR): Measured according to standard OSHA methodology.No data around on-site, work-related fatalities is recorded or reported in this report as Gentherm has not 
recorded an on-site, work-related fatality in our 20+ year history.  
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
Political Donations: Gentherm does not donate to or allow the use of company funds to specifically support political purposes.  In accordance with our internal Delegation of Authority policy, all charitable donations must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer , and in agreement with the Chief Financial Officer , the Chief Human Resources Officer , and General Counsel.
Fleet Vehicles: Gentherm does not maintain a traditional vehicle fleet.  We do however maintain a small 
number of company-owned vehicles designated for sporadic, non-specific employee use (“pool  vehicles”).  While this number may fluctuate based on expiring leases and other criteria, we estimate the average number to be approximately 20 vehicles, operated at an average of 10,000 or less per  year .  Based on average CO2 emissions for a vehicle, the total output would represent a de minimus amount to our total GHG emissions (less than 0.3%) and is therefore excluded from our detailed GHG tracking process. Based on this immaterial impact, our Scope 1 CO2 calculations exclude these emis-sions, instead focusing on our emissions from material sources.54
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020ENVIRONMENTAL METRIC DETAILS
1. Other than minor / pilot program solar power projects at select locations, 100% of Gentherm’s electricity is purchased from local municipal      
     sour
ces, AKA the local power grid.
2. All water usage is provided by local municipal services, including being withdrawn from local sources per municipal services standard practices.
3. All metrics disclosed are 2020 usage. Intensity measurements (Unit / $ Mil Rev.) calculated using 2020 revenue55
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020SASB CONTENT INDEX
Energy Management: TR-AP-130a. 1T otal amount of energy  
consumed; purchased & on-siteAdding all energy sources, including purchased electricity & steam (Scope 2), as well as energy consumed on site including natural gas, heating oil, and similar (Scope 1): T otal energy consumption calculated at 196,099 GJ.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric DetailsSASB Code Disclosure Summary 2020 Disclosure and Response References
Energy Management: TR-AP-130a. 1Percentage of all electricity consumed that is provide from local electrical gridAs noted in Environmental metrics of the report, other than de minimus / pilot projects around solar energy, 100% of Gentherm’s electricity is provided from the electrical grid. Planet Section,  
Planet Metrics
Energy Management: TR-AP-130a. 1Percentage of all electricity consumed that is generated from renewable resourcesAs noted in environmental metrics of the report, approximately 9.5% of all electricity consumed is generated from renewable sources.  Considering only at sites that are able to ascertain the generation sources of their consumed electricity, those sites average 19.5% from renewable sources.Planet Section, Planet Metrics
Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Waste Management: TR-AP-150a. 1T otal amount of waste from manufacturing T otal waste from Gentherm sites totals 6,437 Metric T ons, with effectively 100% of that waste produced at manufacturing / R&D sites. Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Waste Management: TR-AP-150a. 1Percentage of total waste that is hazardousHazardous waste represents 0.52% of all waste produced in 2020.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Waste Management: TR-AP-150a. 1Percentage of total waste that is recycled38% of all waste produced was sent to recycling facilities / operations in 2020.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Product Safety: TR-AP-250a. 1Number of product recalls issuedIn 2020, Gentherm did not have a single recall campaign item that was noted by  NHTSA as part of their standard monthly recall reports.Not Applicable
Product Safety: TR-AP-250a. 1 T otal units recalledIn 2020, Gentherm did not have a single recall campaign item that was noted by  NHTSA as part of their standard monthly recall reports.Not Applicable
Design for Fuel Efficiency: TR-AP-410a. 1Percent of total revenue from products designed to increase fuel efficiency and / or reduce emissions$393 million USD revenue (43. 1% of total) including Climate Control Seating and Battery Performance Solutions (per studies cited in Product section).Our T echnologies
Materials Sourcing: TR-AP-440a. 1Description of the management of risks associated with the use of crucial materialsSee Human Rights section and our Conflict Minerals process.People Section,  Human Rights
People Section, Conflict 
Minerals
Competitive Behavior: TR-AP-520a. 1T otal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior regulations
$0; Gentherm did not incur financial costs in 2020 as a result of legal proceedings related to anticompetitive behavior .Not ApplicableMaterials Efficiency: TR-AP-440b. 1Percentage of products sold that are recyclableDuring 2020 we recognized growing interest from our stakeholders regarding product input materials and product end-of-life disposition.  While we have made efforts to utilize environmentally friendly inputs and to consider end-of-life disposition, we view this as an emerging opportunity for Gentherm, and our Sustainability team is reviewing the situation. We will continue to examine the data, and strive to evolve our approach to input materials and end-of-life disposition.  We are optimistic that future actions will work towards further reducing the environmental impact of our products.Not Applicable
Materials Efficiency: TR-AP-440b.2Percentage of input materials from recycled or remanufac-tured contentNot Applicable56
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ALIGNMENT
In 2015, the United Nations introduced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which is a series of 17 goals designed to be the blueprint to 
achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.  As Gentherm continues to enhance and grow our sustainability program, we look to align our actions with these global goals.  The table below provides an overview of how Gentherm’s sustainability program aligns with relevant SDGs. The items listed are examples only and are not intended to represent the entirety of our actions in that area.
Ensure healthy lives 
and promote well-be-ing for all at all ages.We are dedicated to providing a safe work place for our employees and all visitors to our locations.  Employee engagement activities include a focus on employee health and wellness, especially as related to COVID-19.  Gentherm Medical provides innovative equipment and sup-plies that help improve patient outcome and contribute to improved well-being.•
 Empl
oyee health activities
•
 C
OVID Safe Work Playbook and alterna-
tive work arrangements
•
 Gentherm Medical equipment and mission
•
 F
ocus on safety and continuous improve-
ment•
 P
eople, Engaged Workforce
•  P eople, COVID-19 Efforst and 
Response
•
 Planet, Our T
echnologies
•
 P
eople, Safety - Vision Zero
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality ed-ucation and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.We believe in the importance of education, training, and continued growth for both our employees and those outside of our organization.  Our internal programs offer career training, mentor / mentee rela-tionships, and career planning and feedback.  We also host internship and co-op programs, offering a chance for individuals to experience our company and potential career paths.  Gentherm has a long history of supporting STEM education, and we also believe in foundational  education as well, offering programs for employees to complete their high school education.•
 Empl
oyee health activities
•
 C
OVID Safe Work Playbook and alterna-
tive work arrangements
•
 Gentherm Medical equipment and mission
•
 F
ocus on safety and continuous improve-
ment•
 P
eople, Engaged Workforce
•
 P
eople, COVID-19 Efforst and 
Response
•
 Planet, Our T
echnologies
•
 P
eople, Safety - Vision Zero
Promote sustained, inclusive and sus-tainable economic growth, full and  productive employ-ment and decent  work for all.We are committed to providing high quality, fairly compensated em-ployment at every one of our locations. We believe in treating people appropriately, providing career training, and offering opportunities for professional advancement. Through our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council, our Women’s Network, and our Career Develop-ment programs, we strive to promote productive and decent work and opportunity for all.•
 Gentherm Car
eer Development Programs
•
 Div
ersity, Equity, and Inclusion Council
•
 Gentherm W
omen’s Network
•
 Gl
obal Human Rights Policy•
 P
eople, Career Development
•
 P
eople, DE+I
•
 P
eople, Women’s Network
•
 P
eople, Human Rights
Ensure availability and sustainable man-agement of water and sanitation for all.We believe in the importance of water conservation and sustainability and make dedicated efforts to improve our water usage. In 2021, we have established a target to improve our water usage versus our revenue.•
 W
ater Usage Improvement Target
•
 W
ater Usage Metrics
•
 W
ater Reduction Projects•
 Planet, Metrics
•
 Appendix, En
vironmental 
Metric Details
•
 Planet, Making a Diff
erence
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and mod-ern energy for all.We strive to expand our use of renewable and clean energy, through selections of vendors, or through voluntary programs to purchase increased levels of renewable energy.  We also have undertaken pilot programs related to solar power at multiple locations.  In 2020, 9.5% (4,424 MWH) of our total electricity was noted as coming from renewable resources, with that rate rising to 19.5% when looking only at sites that are able to ascertain the source of generation of their grid purchased electricity.•
 R
enewable Energy Measurement & 
T racking
•
 V
oluntary Renewable Energy Purchases
•
 Solar P
ower Generation and Usage•
 Appendix, En
vironmental 
Metric Details
•
 Planet, Making a 
 
Difference
Sustainable Development Goal Gentherm Alignment and Approach Key Related Activities & Actions 
References 
(Report Location)
Promote sustained, inclusive and sus-tainable economic growth, full and productive employ-ment and decent work for all.We are committed to providing high quality, fairly compensated em-ployment at every one of our locations.  We believe in treating people appropriately, providing career training, and offering opportunities for professional advancement.  Through our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council, our Women’s Network, and our Career Develop-ment programs, we strive to promote productive and decent work and opportunity for all.•
 Gentherm Car
eer Development Programs
•
 Div
ersity, Equity, and Inclusion Council
•
 Gentherm W
omen’s Network
•
 Gl
obal Human Rights Policy•
 P
eople, Career Development
•
 P
eople, DEI
•
 P
eople, Women’s Network
•
 P
eople, Human Rights
Build resilient infra-structure, promote inclusive and sustain-able industrialization and foster innovation.We believe the future of transportation lies in vehicle electrification, and that electrifiction is key to sustainable activites aroud transporta-tion. Gentherm is committed to developing technologies and solutions that support and drive this future. Through our technologies such as Climate Control Seats, ClimateSense, Cell Connecting Boards, and Battery Thermal Management, we are helping to support sustainable economic growth.•
 Gentherm T
echnologies •
 Planet, Our T
echnologies
57
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020Reduce inequality 
within and among countries.We support the rights of all people around the world to be treated fairly and equitably.  Through our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council and our Women’s Network, we work to raise awareness and ensure fair treatment.  Our Global Human Rights Policy clarifies and reinforces our stance around the proper treatment of individuals, regardless of location or position.•
 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council
•
 Gentherm W
omen’s Network
•
 Gl
obal Human Rights Policy• People, DEI
•
 P
eople, Women’s Network
•
 P
eople, Human Rights
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.We believe in sustainable consumption and production of our products.  Of our five environmental targets, two relate directly to measurables related to sustainability around our products, particularly manufacturing waste.  By reducing our landfill percentage, increasing our recycling rates, and reducing our hazardous waste intensity, we can positively affect our manufacturing impact.•
 En
vironmental Targets, Waste to Landfill 
as a Percent of T otal
•
 En
vironmental Targets, Waste to Recy-
cling as Percent of T otal
•
 En
vironmental Targets, Hazardous Waste 
Efficiency•
 Planet, En
vironmental Metric 
Targets
•
 Planet, En
vironmental 
Metrics
•
 Appendix, En
vironmental 
Metric Details
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its im-pacts.We have established a disciplined, detailed Sustainability program, with leadership at our Senior Leadership and Board of Director levels.  This guidance and oversight helps to ensure that we are focused on key issues, including climate impact.  Our disclosure of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, as well as our Environmental Target around reducing Scope 2 emissions demonstrate a clear committment to make progress in this area.•
 Sustainability Appr
oach, Leadership 
Updates
•
 En
vironmental Targets, Scope 2 Emis-
sions Efficiency
•
 En
vironmental Metrics, Scope 2 GHG 
Emissions•
 Sustainability Appr
oach, 
Leadership Updates
•
 Planet, En
vironmental Metric 
Targets
•
 Planet, En
vironmental 
Metrics
•
 Appendix, En
vironmental 
Metric Details
Sustainable Development Goal Gentherm Alignment and Approach Key Related Activities & Actions 
References 
(Report Location)Sustainable Development Goals continued58
Gentherm Sustainability Report | 2020FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND DISCLAIMERS
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our goals, beliefs, plans and expectations about our prospects for the future and  other future events. Such statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “anticipates, ” “appears, ” “believes, ” “continues, ” “could, ” “designed, ” “effect, ” “estimates, ” “evaluates, ” “expects, ” “forecasts, ” “goal, ” “initiative, ” “intends, ” “may, ” “objective, ” “outlook, ” “plans, ” “potential, ” “priorities, ” “project, ” “pursue, ” “seek, ” “should, ” “target, ” “when, ” “will, ” “would, ” or similar terms, variations of such terms or  the negative of such terms. The forward-looking statements included in this document, including our targets and goals,  are made as of the  date hereof or as of the date specified and are based on management’s reasonable expectations and beliefs. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from that described in the forward looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include the risks noted in reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, as well as additional factors we may describe from time to time in other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update any  forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Statements regarding our policies, guidelines or goals are aspirational in nature. They are not promised to be delivered nor guaranteed for 
achievement. We cannot guaranty that our directors, officers employees and suppliers follow the requirements of our codes, policies and  guidelines in all circumstances. Standards of measurement and methods of calculating sustainability data are developing and numbers  reported are based on company calculations and estimates.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Gentherm”, “the Company”, “we”, “our” and “us” in this report refer to Gentherm Incorporated  
and its consolidated subsidiaries. The content of this report generally covers subject matter for the 2020 calendar year unless otherwise  noted and is limited to operations owned and/or operated by Gentherm.
All photographs in this document were taken in a safe manner , including utilizing measures such as social distancing and other appropriate 
measures, or were taken prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. 