Technology to the next degree™
2019 Sustainability Report1
INTRODUCTION    2
CEO INTRODUCTION   3
ABOUT US / COMPANY OVERVIEW  4
Our History     5
Our Locations     6
Our Awards     7
OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH:  
PEOPLE, PLANET, AND PLACES  8
Sustainability Framework    9
OUR PEOPLE:  
BUILDING A WINNING CULTURE   10
Code of Conduct / Ethics Line / Conflict of Interest  11
Human Rights     12
Engaged Workforce      13
Women’s Network     16
Career Development     18
Employee Survey     20
Safety – Vision Zero     20
OUR PLANET:  
HAVING A POSITIVE IMPACT  
ON OUR ENVIRONMENT   21
Planet Metrics     22
Locations      23
Planet – ISO-14001     25
Planet Risks     25
Our T echnologies     25
Climate Control Seat (CCS®)    26
Battery Thermal Management    27
ClimateSense ™      28
Gentherm Medical     29
OUR COMMUNITIES:  
COMMITTED TO PROGRESS  30
Charity Outreach     31
Education      32
STAKEHOLDERS AND SUPPLY CHAIN 33
GOVERNANCE     34
2020 PLANS AND COMMITMENTS  35Table of 
Contents2
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Introduction
 
When people hear the word “sustainability”, they often think only about environmental impact  
and becoming a “greener” organization. Here at Gentherm, we believe that sustainability is  
about much more. It’s about how we positively impact our employees and their families.  
It’s about the efforts we take to be environmentally friendly. It’s about the products we create  
and how they can bring health, wellness, comfort and efficiency to make the world a better place. 
It’s about how we interact with the communities in which we do business and have operations. 
We believe that sustainability is fundamental for our success in creating long-
term value for our employees, customers and other key stakeholders.3
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
CEO Introduction
Gentherm is committed to 
be a leading developer and 
provider of innovative thermal 
management technologies 
in the automotive and 
medical industries. Aligned 
with our F .A.S.T . Forward 
focused growth strategy, mission and core values, we are building 
a culture of engagement, sustainability and social responsibility. 
Our business is rapidly evolving with new technologies 
and opportunities. We know that sustainability 
starts with the unique technologies that we 
bring to the market. I am proud of the passion 
of our teams who deliver day in and day out.
As leaders in thermal management, we are proud of our award-winning 
technologies that have a positive impact on the environment. We are 
equally proud of our more than 11,000 employees across the globe. 
Each employee understands the important role they play in developing 
and launching solutions that support our sustainability efforts. 
Our culture is rooted in our four Winning Culture Behaviors of Customer 
Focus, Employee Engagement and Inclusion, Global Mindset and 
Performance and Accountability. Our employees are actively involved 
in giving back to our communities, and we are committed to investing 
in our people, environmental sustainability and our workplace culture. 
Since our founding we have been committed to the environment and 
to the communities where we live and work. In 2020 we are making 
major strides to demonstrate our commitment to sustainability with 
our first Sustainability Report. This report highlights Gentherm’s 
sustainability initiatives and activities across our 25 global locations, 
with the focus on three key areas – People, Planet and Places.
Sustainability is an important part of who we are and what we do. 
While we continue to look for opportunities for improvement, I 
am proud of the progress our global team has made to drive long-
term sustainability for Gentherm and all of our stakeholders.
PHIL EYLER  
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Director , Board of Directors 4
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
About Us /  
Company Overview 5
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
OUR PATHOur History
OUR MISSION
Creating and delivering extraordinary thermal 
solutions that make meaningful differences 
in everyday life, by improving, health, 
wellness, comfort and energy efficiency.  
Gentherm is a global developer of innovative thermal management 
technologies for a broad range of heating and cooling and 
temperature control applications. By building on the foundations 
of thermal technology, we have created an organization that 
celebrates change and is constantly poised to capitalize on new 
market opportunities. And it’s been that way since the beginning. 
We first opened our doors in Southern California in 1991 as 
Amerigon, investigating a broad spectrum of technologies, 
including thermoelectric devices. We found technologies 
that were historically applied in aerospace and defense 
could disrupt other industries, including automotive.
By 1996 we introduced the first heated and cooled car seat based 
on our revolutionary thermoelectric technology. In the years that 
followed, consumers embraced greater comfort and efficiency, and we 
applied our technologies beyond climate controlled seats to include 
battery thermal management, electronics and interior comfort.
1991  
Quickly established 
ourselves as a leader in 
thermoelectric technology.
1996  
Launch of the first 
heated and cooled 
automotive seat.
2011  
Continued organic 
growth enhanced by 
the acquisition of W.E.T . 
Automotive, a pioneer in 
seat heating since 1978.
2016  
Advanced our knowledge 
of thermophysiology 
with the acquisition of 
Cincinnati Sub-Zero, 
a leading provider of 
medical temperature 
management equipment.
2017  
Keeping an eye on the 
future, we acquired 
Etratech, an electronics 
market leader 
specializing in advanced 
electronic controls.
2018 to the Future  
F. A . S .T.  
Focused growth  
Aligned portfolio  
Sharpened execution  
T echnology leadership6
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Our Locations
T oday, we are proud to employ more than 11,000 employees 
and generate nearly $1 billion in revenue in 2019. We operate 
in 13 countries, including the United States, Germany, Canada, 
China, Hungary, Japan, South Korea, North Macedonia, 
Malta, Mexico, United Kingdom, Ukraine and Vietnam. 
As a leader of innovative thermal management 
technologies, we understand and appreciate 
the important role we play in finding 
solutions that benefit the environment. 
Our mission is to create and deliver extraordinary thermal 
solutions that make meaningful differences in everyday life, by 
improving health, wellness, comfort and energy efficiency. Put 
simply, we are positively impacting people’s lives. T o do this, we 
must find innovative and socially responsible solutions that will 
help leave the world a better place for future generations. 25 
Locations13  
Countries11,000+  
EmployeesNORTH AMERICA
HQ – Northville, MI  
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Farmington Hills, MI  
(Engineering)
Burlington, ON  
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Cincinnati, OH  
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Del Rio, TX  
(Manufacturing, Sales and Support)
Acuña, Mexico  
(Manufacturing, Sales and Support)
Celaya, Mexico  
(Manufacturing)
EUROPE
Odelzhausen, Germany  
(Engineering, Sales and Support)
Stuttgart, Germany  
(Engineering, Sales, Manufacturing, Support)
West Midlands, UK  
(Sales and Support)
Pilisszentiván, Hungary  
(Engineering)
Vynohradiv, Ukraine  
(Manufacturing)
Prilep, North Macedonia  
(Manufacturing)
Ta’Xbiex, Malta  
(Sales and Support)
ASIA
Langfang, China  
(Manufacturing, Engineering, Sales and Support)
Shanghai, China  
(Engineering, Sales and Support)
Shenzhen, China  
(Manufacturing)
Hong Kong, China  
(Sales and Support)
Seoul, South Korea  
(Sales and Support)
Ulsan, South Korea  
(Sales and Support)
Chungcheongnam, South Korea
(Sales and Support)
Nagoya, Japan  
(Sales and Support)
T okyo, Japan  
(Sales and Support)
Hiroshima, Japan  
(Sales and Support)
Ha Nam, Vietnam  
(Manufacturing)7
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Our Awards
At Gentherm, we support sustainability because 
we believe it’s the right thing to do and the 
right way to run our company. We are proud of 
our hard work and recognition from outside 
organizations reinforces our efforts.
In 2019, Gentherm was awarded 
the prestigious PACE Award 
from Automotive News for our 
Battery Thermal Management 
(BTM) system. The PACE 
Award recognizes innovation, 
technological advancement, 
and business performance 
in the automotive supply 
industry. We are excited to see 
our hard work recognized as 
one of only 13 suppliers being 
awarded this honor in 2019. 
Gentherm was also honored to receive other awards including:
 › 2019 ZF-ZATS Excellent Partner Award in China
 › 2019 Adient Chongqing Quality Award
 › Bosch M-PSD Lead Award in Germany
 › T op Employer award in Germany (for the sixth consecutive year)“ We are honored to receive 
our first Automotive 
News PACE Award. This 
prestigious recognition is 
a testament to Gentherm’s 
world class technology 
team and their dedication 
to excellence in delivering 
an industry-leading battery 
thermal management 
solution for Mercedes. With 
the increasing adoption of 
48-volt vehicle systems, 
we are well positioned to 
provide our customers with 
cutting-edge innovative 
battery thermal solutions. 
Receiving a PACE Award 
is another milestone 
in Gentherm’s mission 
to create and deliver 
extraordinary thermal 
solutions and we look 
forward to continuing to 
build on our track record 
of innovative launches. ” 
PHIL EYLER, 
President and Chief 
Executive Officer 
Director , Board of Directors 
8
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Our Sustainability Approach: 
People, Planet and Places
 
There is an almost endless list of ways for a company to affect change and be a positive force. 
While Gentherm has long been engaged in sustainability related efforts, in preparation for our inaugural 
Sustainability Report, we looked to industry sources and third-party frameworks such as the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) and others. We also 
looked to identify topics of interest for outside rating agencies and reviewed peer and customer reports and 
information. Based on our detailed analysis and benchmarking, we developed the Gentherm sustainability 
framework to ensure that our actions are focused in the areas that have the biggest impact, that we measure 
the right progress and that we gather the information necessary to tell the Gentherm sustainability story. 
We have a great story to tell about who we are – and where we are going. 
Our employees are proud to be part of our One Gentherm family and to tell 
the world about our commitment in making the world a better place.9
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Sustainability Framework
THE GENTHERM SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK IS COMPRISED OF THREE PILLARS:
The sustainability framework serves not only to clearly communicate 
to our stakeholders what our key priorities are, but also allows us 
to gather the information, metrics and data needed to measure our 
progress as well as identify opportunities for improvement.
Working with a cross-functional team, each of our 25 Gentherm locations participated in the 2019 
Sustainability survey process. These efforts enabled our team to map all available sustainability  
metrics and information, gather supporting documentation and identify local initiatives and  
site-specific sustainability efforts. 
In addition to our framework and benchmarking, we have also developed a strategy that, under the guidance 
of our Corporate Governance Committee, will help us to further enhance our sustainability efforts going 
forward. Under the leadership of our Board of Directors and Executive Leadership T eam, we will be able 
to make an impact that will benefit all our stakeholders. Key elements of our program will include:
 › Use a stepwise approach; constantly making improvements and building on our successes
 › Careful consideration and development of next steps by analyzing benchmarks; establishing 
baseline metrics while understanding established standards and considering capital market trends
 › Maintain and grow internal momentum and commitment through increased visibility 
to our global team; making this an important part of employee engagement
Between what we have already done and what we are positioned to do, we have great 
momentum and will continue to strengthen our processes and our foundation. People
At Gentherm, our leaders treat 
employees with respect and provide 
a safe working environment. We 
provide career opportunities, 
development, support and more. 
People create our success.Planet
Our sites work to minimize 
environmental impacts, strive 
towards zero waste and focus on 
our impact on the planet. We expect 
the same of our business partners. 
Our processes and our products 
help to take care of our planet.Places
As global citizens, we strive to be 
leaders and positive influences in 
the communities where we operate. 
Through charity outreach efforts, 
supporting our employees or 
fostering educational opportunities, 
Gentherm helps make the places 
where we do business better . 10
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Our People:
Building a Winning Culture
 
Innovation distinguishes a leader from a follower and we 
live up to that by empowering our employees. Our teams are 
comprised of creative individuals that believe in challenging 
the status quo by applying the latest tools and thinking toward 
thermal solutions. Our passion drives us to provide systems 
and solutions that not only help our customers but improve the 
world and make meaningful differences in everyday life. 
Gentherm’s culture is built on our four Winning Culture Behaviors 
of Customer Focus, Employee Engagement and Inclusion, Global 
Mindset and Performance and Accountability. Every team member 
is empowered to have a direct impact on the Company by working 
together to build a strong and inclusive workplace for all employees. 
We are truly a global company and having a global mindset is critical 
for employees to succeed at Gentherm. We invest in our people and 
provide a diverse working environment that values and harnesses the 
power of our employees’ varied backgrounds, cultures and experiences. 
When we value the diversity of our employees, we are better equipped 
to meet the demanding and shifting challenges of the global economy. “ T eams of people compete, 
not companies. T ogether , 
we create an environment 
that cultivates diversity, 
transparency and respect. 
This ensures our team 
members are appreciated, 
can develop their careers, 
wow our customers and 
grow our business. ” 
PHIL EYLER, 
President and  
Chief Executive Officer11
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Code of Conduct/Ethics Line/ 
Conflict of Interest 
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
At Gentherm, we expect that our employees operate with the 
highest level of honesty and integrity at all times. T o help provide 
guidance around what is expected when it comes to ethical behavior 
and conduct, we look to the Gentherm Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics. This document provides guidance and direction to our 
employees at all levels, including our Executive Leadership T eam 
and our Board of Directors, on a variety of topics such as anti-
corruption, appropriate workplace behavior , legal compliance and 
more. At each of our locations around the world, the Code of Conduct 
is an essential part of the new employee orientation process. Every 
employee is expected to understand the Code of Conduct and adhere 
to its guidance in everything they do on behalf of Gentherm.
GENTHERM ETHICS HOTLINE
We provide multiple avenues for employees or stakeholders to report 
concerns about ethics, compliance or other activity that may not align 
with the Gentherm Code of Business Conduct or our Company values. 
In addition to local management, Human Resources and our Legal 
and Compliance team members being available, our externally hosted 
ethics hotline ( https://secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/media/en/
gui/40500/index.html ) is available around the world, in the home 
languages of our locations. Individuals can report via the website or 
telephone. Ethics posters displayed in our global locations remind our 
employees of this resource, including the option to report anonymously. 
The Gentherm Code of Conduct outlines strict guidance prohibiting 
retaliation against any employee that reports an issue in good faith. 
ANNUAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST SURVEY“ At Gentherm, we expect 
every employee to do the 
right thing, every time. 
Whether it’s financial 
reporting, how we 
represent the company 
to the market or how we 
treat individuals – integrity 
and honesty are key to the 
Gentherm way of doing 
business. If an employee 
sees something that isn’t 
right – we encourage 
them to speak up. ” 
 MATTEO ANVERSA
Executive Vice President 
of Finance, Chief Financial 
Officer and T reasurer
Our annual Conflict of Interest and Business Ethics survey 
is another tool we use to remind employees of our core 
values and give employees an opportunity to address 
any issues or concerns they may have. This annual survey 
is delivered to each active “Gentherm.com” email, is 
available in 10 languages and covers topics such as bribery 
and corruption, legal compliance, potential conflicts 
of interest, harassment and insider trading. All survey 
results are reviewed by our Compliance team and anything 
indicating a potential issue or question is addressed. 12
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Human Rights
We believe in treating all people 
with dignity and respect. 
Our Code of Conduct clearly states our stance against harassment 
and discrimination. We believe that every individual should be 
evaluated based on their qualifications and work performance. 
We also take a strong stance against human rights issues such 
as child labor , forced labor , human trafficking and extend 
that to our suppliers via our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
As a company with manufacturing sites, we are aware of the 
risks that improper business conduct could have on individuals, 
either at our locations or throughout our supply chain and we 
take those risks seriously. As part of our annual sustainability 
survey process, each site is required to outline the local steps 
and procedures they take to ensure that we reach the highest 
standards related to our workforce and that we always operate 
in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulation. 
Our commitment to human rights is also demonstrated in our 
annual Conflict Minerals process and filings. We conduct annual 
due diligence on the source and chain of custody of tantalum, 
tin, tungsten and gold (3TG) and comply with U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission rules governing the reporting 
of sources of 3TG used when producing our products.13
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Engaged Workforce 
Gentherm believes that our employees are our 
greatest strength. We support our employees  
and work to provide a safe and healthy workplace. 
Our efforts include the introduction of engagement 
teams in 2019 to focus on diversity and inclusion, 
employee health and safety, community 
efforts and overall employee satisfaction.
Gentherm sites around the world host events for our 
employees and their families – giving our employees a chance 
to show their families where they work, meet coworkers’ 
families and demonstrate Gentherm’s core values. 
Each October , several Gentherm sites around the globe promote 
awareness and host activities related to Breast Cancer Awareness 
month. Our sites in Acuña and Celaya, Mexico, and Prilep, 
North Macedonia hosted on-site screening for employees. Our 
site in Vietnam hosted awareness sessions and provided free 
screenings at local medical facilities. In total, we were able to 
screen almost 2,000 of our team members for breast cancer . 
We want our employees to be safe while they are away from 
work as well. For our employees in Vietnam, a motorbike is a 
popular mode of transportation. T o help ensure their safety, we 
provide free maintenance / repair on-site, as well as hosting 
motorbike safety lessons and training. We are so committed to 
their safety, that in 2019 we provided a free full-face helmet to 
any employee that wanted one. Over 1, 100 helmets were handed 
out as yet another step to ensure the safety of our employees. Family Day Fun Day and Picnic
Shanghai, China 
Breast Cancer Awareness 
Month Screenings
Prilep, North Macedonia
Motorbike Safety Event
Ha Nam, Vietnam
Given over 1, 100 helmets to 
promote employee safety
Ha Nam, Vietnam14
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Annual Employee Basketball Game
Shenzhen, China Employee Baby Gift
 Prilep, North Macedonia
Annual On-Site Employee Health Day Bus
Budapest, Hungary We understand that the health of our employees is of the utmost importance. We encourage 
each location to put in place activities and support that align with the local culture, regulations 
and needs, as health and wellness is not a “one size fits all” activity. We want to deliver what 
is most beneficial and culturally appropriate to our employees at each location.
 › Many of our sites around the world host on-site exercise classes. In Vietnam and in Shenzhen, 
China the sites host regular yoga classes. Our Hungary location has Pilates and massage, while in 
Ukraine we host gymnastics and karate classes for the children of our employees. At our Northville 
facility, Gentherm subsidizes membership to a local health club, encouraging a healthy lifestyle. 
 › In Odelzhausen, Germany, our site has hosted workshops and trainings to help build a 
healthier lifestyle, including a Stress Management Workshop, health screenings, a “Sleep 
Healthy!” workshop, lessons on healthy cooking and free annual flu shots. Forty different 
health tests and checks, host activities and provide educational materials to employees. 
 › At our North Macedonia site, the local leadership team reaches out to each 
local employee that has a new baby to provide the new parents with a gift 
basket of baby essentials to help with the care of a newborn. 
 › With two locations in Shenzhen, China, our sites meet for an annual basketball game, 
encouraging healthy activities, and building the relationship between the locations.15
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Taking care of our employees doesn’t stop when they leave the building for the day.  
At our facilities in Acuña and Celaya, Mexico, our Family Centers provide a wide array of services to our over 
4,000 employees and their families. These facilities provide important services, including offering help in 
times of need, such as legal support or counseling services. If an employee is working on a project at home, 
the Family Center will provide free usage of key tools and equipment. For a celebration at our employees’ 
homes, the site allows them free access to borrow tables, chairs, grills and other equipment and supplies. 16
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Women’s Network
In 2018, we launched the Gentherm Women’s Network under 
the leadership of our executive sponsor , Yijing Brentano, Senior 
Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning 
and Analysis. This global network is aimed at making sure that 
each one of our employees is valued for their contributions and 
provided the support to grow personally and professionally. 
Though called the Women’s Network, the program is open to all 
Gentherm employees, both men and women, and aims to serve 
our entire team, promoting diversity, openness and respect.
We first launched in Northville, Michigan and have 
now launched chapters at locations around the world. 
The program has grown bigger than just focusing 
on support for women, it’s also gained enough 
momentum to become a key force in providing career 
training to all employees, supporting mentoring 
and charitable activities around the world. 
T o date, thirteen Gentherm facilities, covering all major 
manufacturing locations and a total of 97 percent of our employee 
population, have launched their local Women’s Network chapter . 
With an active membership of hundreds of employees and 
growing, the Gentherm Women’s Network has established itself 
as a valuable resource. At each site, local membership works 
together to provide services and activities that align with the local 
needs. The flexibility of the Women’s Network to support what’s 
important at each location is one of its greatest strengths.“ I believe that one of 
the best ways to help 
a company is to make 
sure that we leverage the 
strengths of our employees 
– and that means making 
sure that every voice is 
heard and respected. 
The Gentherm Women’s 
Network was launched with 
the intent of promoting 
equality and fair treatment 
for all individuals at 
Gentherm and we are 
excited for our progress 
and for where we can go. ” 
 YIJING BRENTANO
Senior Vice President,  
Investor Relations and Global 
Financial Planning and Analysis
17
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
 › At our Northville, Michigan location, we launched our 
mentorship program, providing employees with a leader to 
act as their mentor . These relationships help ensure a strong 
voice to some of our brightest and most promising employees. 
In 2020, we will be expanding our mentorship program to 
include our Odelzhausen, Vietnam and Mexico locations.
 › The Women’s Network chapter at our Hungary location hosted 
an event focused on interacting in a global business world, 
providing guidance and training around effective communication.
 › At our Ukraine site, the Women’s Network hosted an 
event focusing on family – including topics such as 
balancing work and home, tips for dealing with work 
related travel and how it affects your family and more. 
 › In Acuña, Mexico the local Women’s Network hosted sessions 
such as “Grow Your Own, ” helping employees understand 
how to plan and be their own advocate for their career 
development, as well as an “Interview T echniques Workshop, ” 
making sure that individuals have practiced and understand 
key parts of the job search and interview process.
 › For International Women’s Day on March 8th, our Women’s 
Network chapters around the world took this opportunity to 
continue to strengthen and build connections among our 
employees. Whether it was a handwritten card delivered to 
employees in Northville, a video story prepared by our team in 
Ukraine, small gifts across our China locations or any of a number 
of ways to express appreciation and unity, our global network 
seized the day to acknowledge the importance of our employees.
In order to make sure that the Gentherm Women’s Network 
continues to grow and thrive and that our efforts are aimed at the 
right areas for growth, our local chapters annually survey their 
members about topics related to equality, planned activities, 
suggestions for new topics and other topics related to the Women’s 
Network goals and objectives. This process helps us to ensure 
that the local efforts are directed at the right areas, as well as 
making sure that each site retains its own “voice” in the process. 
With the success and momentum we’ve already 
established, we are excited to see the Women’s 
Network continue to grow as we broaden our 
efforts around diversity and inclusion.Gentherm Ukraine Family Event
Vynohradiv, Ukraine
Grow Your Own Participants
Acuña, Mexico
Members celebrate International 
Women’s Day in strong female form
Prilep, North Macedonia
Male team members deliver flowers 
to their female counterparts
Pilisszentiván, Hungary18
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Career Development 
With a global reach and an eye toward the future, our goal is to 
provide our employees with careers that they love and we take 
actions to support and develop each employee’s career . We believe 
that our future leaders are already part of our team today and we 
work to develop our people and help them be the best that they 
can be. Our Performance Management Process (PMP) utilizes a 
wide array of tools to evaluate performance, provide growth and 
learning opportunities and to help plan for each employee’s future.
The key tenet of our performance management process is the 
principle of everyday coaching and ensuring our leaders have 
informal discussions with employees about their goals, their 
development and enhanced communication. The overall process 
focuses on continuous performance management and includes 
goal setting and evaluation, multiple check-ins during each year and 
measurement against our Winning Culture Behaviors. By providing 
a structured process for our professional-level employees, we are 
better able to ensure solid feedback, coaching and development.
Our recently launched !MPACT leadership competency model is 
another example of giving our employees clear support and direction 
to help them achieve their goals while also driving performance across 
the Gentherm team. With a foundation of our mission and our values, 
our employees are trained on key facets to help them drive their career 
forward. This two-day training session focuses on key skills, including:“ I believe that a manager 
lights a fire under people, 
but a leader lights a fire 
in people. A leader makes 
someone achieve more 
than they thought possible. 
Here at Gentherm, we 
believe that leaders are 
not born, they are made 
and we work to encourage 
each of our employees 
to be a leader . I believe 
that by encouraging that 
type of growth in our 
employees, the company 
will see the benefit and 
so will the individual. ” 
 BARB RUNYON
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Human Resources Officer
 › Drive Change:  
Be curious. Speak up. Share 
your experience and expertise.
 › Deliver Results:  
Prioritize work that achieves 
key goals. Ask for help 
when you are stuck.
 › Build Capability:  
Find opportunities to 
build your skill set. Ask for 
feedback about your work.
 › Focused Innovation:  
Be a source for new ideas. 
Be open minded and think 
outside your “core” area.19
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
When it comes to developing people, the Gentherm processes 
cover the entire team, from the Executive Leadership Team 
to new hires at our manufacturing facilities. 
At our manufacturing sites, new plant level employees receive extensive training on the 
processes and their responsibilities but also on areas such as safety and quality. 
 › For example, at our sites in Mexico, each new employee begins their Gentherm career with 
a full week of classroom training, covering topics including our Code of Conduct, health and 
safety and quality procedures. Subsequently, each new employee undergoes three weeks of 
job-specific training to help ensure that they are ready to help Gentherm meet our goals.
At our sites in Mexico, we identified an opportunity to help the development of key individuals in our 
workforce. We found that a number of our employees had started working without completing high 
school, often out of financial necessity for them or their family. Whether at Gentherm or somewhere 
else, this situation presents a limitation on future career development, so we took action.
 › The site recently implemented a program to provide fully accredited, on-site high school 
classes, at no cost to any employee that wanted to complete their degree. We provided 
on site teachers, all needed materials and all fees for required testing. Our employees 
committed their time on the weekend, while we committed the support to help them reach 
their goal. In 2019 we had over 50 employees achieve the amazing goal of receiving a 
degree. As soon as their graduation ceremony was done, we started the next class. 
 › Our Medical site in Cincinnati, Ohio has four production managers leading manufacturing 
activities. Each of these managers were originally hired into an entry level position, 
developed their skills within our team and grew their career into a position leading 
manufacturing for a vital piece of our rapidly growing Medical Business Unit.
 › We also believe strongly in making sure that our employees understand the risks around 
cyber security and information security. Our online training services deliver multiple training 
courses each year to all active Gentherm email addresses. With over 8,000 training courses 
completed each year , Gentherm works hard to make sure our employees are up to date on the 
risks of a digital world and what we can do to protect the company and each individual.
Graduation Day for our team members 
Celaya, MexicoFirst generation of Gentherm employees to graduate
Acuña, Mexico20
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Safety – Vision Zero
At Gentherm, safety is an essential part of our day-to-day business. The safety of our 
employees, visitors to our sites and anyone else we interact with is a part of who we 
are. T o help drive safety, our sites operate under the guidance of our global Health, 
Safety and Environmental (HSE) team, guided by the Vision Zero initiative.
Vision Zero is a globally known approach and mindset that aims to eliminate 100 percent of 
work accidents and injuries. Our global team of 50 individuals, representing each Gentherm 
facility, aims to reach zero injuries by following the Vision Zero Seven Golden Rules:
 › Leadership Commitment With a T op-Down Approach
 › Identify All Hazards and Risks
 › Set Safety and Health Targets
 › Ensure a Safety System/ Standards
 › Use Safe and Healthy T echnology
 › Improve Qualification
 › Involve People
Our HSE team uses these seven rules to constantly push toward the ultimate goal – zero accidents. 
By sharing information not just about accidents and injuries, but also about near-misses, our teams 
are able to continuously learn and improve. With the understanding of what causes an accident, or 
a near-miss, we work to implement changes that help to eliminate those risks in the future.
Our HSE team measures safety using a few key metrics around reportable incidents. From 
2018 to 2019, we were able to reduce our incidents by an average of over 40 percent.
As a result of our focused efforts on safety, we are pleased to state that over 50 
percent of our global workforce operates in facilities that are OHSAS 18001 / ISO 
45001 certified, with additional facilities presently pursuing the certification.Employee Survey
Hearing directly from our employees is an essential part in understanding what is 
important to them. In addition to our Ethics Hotline, Gentherm also supports employee 
engagement and feedback surveys at numerous locations around the world.
Our engagement and feedback processes are locally administered, allowing them to 
focus on the issues most relevant to particular site and their people. This site-specific 
feedback helps us ensure that we are focused on the right issues for each location.
While over 93 percent of our employees work at locations that utilize surveys addressing 
engagement and satisfaction, we will continue to expand the reach and make certain that 
every employee has an opportunity to provide feedback. T o support this, our HR leadership is 
planning implementation of a global engagement survey that will further help us measure our 
success and opportunities across our sites. A global common process will provide our leadership 
with an understanding of not just local issues, but trends and issues on a global basis.21
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Our Planet:
Having a Positive Impact  
on Our Environment
 
Protecting the environment not only benefits us, but also future generations.  
Making a difference in improving energy efficiency is in our mission and we are  
working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, save energy and decrease waste. 
Our products are designed to break boundaries between “what is” and “what is 
possible. ” We are working to reduce energy consumption by developing products that 
provide energy savings. Our technologies deliver consistent performance, have a lower 
carbon footprint and work to use non-harmful and recyclable materials. 
We believe we can always do better and do more. We take this responsibility 
seriously and are always looking for ways to improve our environmental results.22
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Planet Metrics
In order to evaluate our present status and to measure our progress, we gathered data from each one 
of our locations to help us understand Gentherm’s environmental impact. The following information 
summarizes metrics from around the globe, for every location where the data is available.
We calculate our Scope 2 GHG emissions for all Gentherm sites based on KWH purchased and used. Using 
electricity consumption from each location and GHG data and available guidance from The Climate Registry, 
Gentherm estimates our annual Scope 2 CO2 emissions at approximately 28,543 Metric T ons.
* These numbers were generated using local utility providers sourcing of energy.
Note: In some locations such as sales offices, etc., data around metrics such as waste disposal or hazardous 
waste generation is not available / not applicable. The above metrics cover all manufacturing locations and 
major office locations. 23
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Locations
At our Gentherm locations around the world, we are continuously 
working to minimize our environmental impact. By taking actions 
that align with the specific local processes or products manufactured 
at that location, each site has the autonomy to do what they can and 
what is right to keep our environmental progress moving forward.
Part of progress is measurement. Our Gentherm sites work to 
monitor and reduce their energy and resource consumption. 
At our site in Shenzhen, China their constant focus on energy 
efficiency has driven them to improve their electricity usage by 
approximately 30 percent over the last two years. Their focus 
has driven creative thinking such as raising the temperature of 
chilled water for local usage, implementing efficient shutdowns of 
equipment such as air conditioning or heating during down-time 
and using recycled water for cooling or other non-potable usage.
In addition to focusing on improving electricity efficiency, Gentherm 
is looking to move forward in providing our own clean, renewable 
energy. At our site in Burlington, Canada we have worked with local 
agencies to implement solar power generation. Originally installed 
in mid-2016, the site remains committed to this renewable power 
and is working on upgrades and maintenance that will bring the 
system to a capacity of approximately 300,000 KWH per year , 
around 15 percent of the site’s total annual power requirements.
Our site in Germany recently worked to move their electricity  
purchases to a new utility provider that generates 59 percent  
of their electricity from renewable resources, 22 percentage  
points higher than their previous provider . 
Around the globe, our facilities are replacing 
older light bulbs with new, more energy efficient 
LEDs. Across our facilities, approximately 1,000 
light bulbs were updated in 2019 and almost 
3,000 were updated over the last few years. 
T o understand that impact, assume the average bulb, a 75W bulb, 
is replaced with a high efficiency 15W LED bulb. That equates 
to approximately 740,000 KWH saved per year – the equivalent 
of the electricity used by over 65 average homes in a year!“ While most of our 
Gentherm manufacturing 
sites have focused 
with passion on locally 
developed environmental 
targets, we are excited 
to take the next step 
and implement a global 
view and approach 
starting in 2020. Our 
efforts will include 
establishing baseline 
metrics, benchmarking 
versus outside resources 
and looking at ongoing 
operations to identify 
opportunities for 
improvement. These 
efforts will allow us 
to establish global 
goals for improving our 
performance related to key 
environmental metrics. ” 
 RAFAEL BARKAS
Senior Vice President,  
Global Operations and 
Supply Chain
24
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 At our site in Acuña, Mexico the on-site cafeteria serves up 1,000 
meals per day to our employees. In 2019, the site implemented 
processes and equipment to eliminate paper plates from the 
process, moving to reusable dishes. This results in approximately 
220,000 fewer paper plates being used each year . 
At another manufacturing site in Shenzhen, China, the local team 
identified an opportunity for improvement and took action. The 
on-site air compressors and related equipment, vital parts of the 
manufacturing process, require a large amount of electricity to operate. 
Through a deep dive study to understand the energy requirements 
of the equipment and a thorough analysis of the most efficient 
equipment set-up as well as modifications to the manufacturing 
production plan, the local team reduced the electricity consumption 
related to that equipment by over 85,000 KWH per year . 
With Gentherm’s focus on the future of transportation and our 
portfolio of technologies, we were eager to install electric vehicle 
charging stations at our Northville, Michigan location. We are excited 
to be able to provide this resource to our employees or site visitors.
While Gentherm’s manufacturing processes are not typically water 
intensive, that doesn’t mean we are not focused on reducing our water 
usage. Water is a precious resource and just like any other resource, we 
are taking steps to minimize our impact. Presently, we only operate in 
one country, Mexico, that is defined as “high water-stressed” according 
to the World Resources Institute. While water usage is something that 
is measured around the Company locations, with an aim of reducing 
our volume, at our locations in Mexico we’ve taken steps such as 
installing flush-less / dry bathroom facilities and installing new low 
flow / water reducing faucets. For our team in Mexico, those efforts 
are delivering results. Our Mexico operations accounted for less 
than 25 percent of our global water use while accounting for over 
35 percent of our global employees. Our Mexico operations are one 
of our most efficient sites measured on water usage per employee, 
coming in approximately 30 percent lower than our average location.
At our location in Langfang, China, the site has installed low flow 
toilets, automated sensors on sinks and faucets and even modified 
local air conditioning settings to reduce water usage. As a result of 
these efforts, our Langfang team drove local water consumption per 
employee at the site down almost 25 percent from 2018 to 2019.
Most of our sites tend to rely on local municipal water systems for 
supply as well as discharge of water . While some local systems 
provide discharge metrics, our manufacturing processes do not 
produce water discharge that requires special treatment or handling, 
so we focus our water efforts on reduction of consumption. “ In the rapidly changing 
manufacturing markets in 
Asia, it would be easy for 
locations to forget about 
environmental awareness 
or to simply dismiss the 
issue. I’m proud of the 
work that our Gentherm 
sites in Asia have done to 
reduce our environmental 
impact. From improving 
the efficiency of our 
electricity usage, to 
recycling programs, the 
Gentherm team takes our 
commitments seriously. ” 
 HUI (HELEN) XU
Senior Vice President and  
 General Manager , 
Global Electronics
25
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 “ Our global sales team 
is extremely proud to 
represent a company 
that makes innovative 
products which provide 
an incredible customer 
experience and have a 
positive environmental 
impact at the same time.  
Working with automotive 
manufacturers around the 
world, we pride ourselves 
on providing world class 
customer service while 
always working to exceed 
their expectations. ” 
  PAUL GIBERSON
Senior Vice President, Global Sales
Planet – ISO-14001
We take our environmental responsibility seriously, and we look 
to outside sources to help make sure that we are on the right 
path and that we are meeting industry standards or better . As a 
result, the ISO-14001 certification process is a key measurement 
for our sites, especially our manufacturing locations. 
As of year-end 2019, 83 percent of our employees work at ISO-
14001 certified sites, with two other facilities working towards that 
goal. By mid-2020, we forecast that over 95 percent of all Gentherm 
employees will be working in ISO-14001 locations, including 100 
percent of our automotive manufacturing sites. Locations not 
already certified or pursuing ISO-14001 certification are primarily 
office locations, sales offices, and similar sites, where safety and 
environmental is driven in more location appropriate manners.
Planet Risks
Even with all of these steps aimed at minimizing our environmental 
impact, our team still recognizes the opportunities to improve. 
Our sites, both manufacturing and office locations, as well as 
other stakeholders in our supply chain, use electricity and water 
and produce solid waste. We understand the risks that this poses 
to the environment. We will keep striving to improve, to adapt our 
processes and our products to minimize our environmental impact.
Our Technologies
Our commitment to sustainability isn’t limited to our sites, it also 
extends into our products. We work every day demonstrating our 
global team’s dedication to creating a more sustainable world with 
our advanced technologies, both those currently on the market and 
those under development. With our strong focus on increasing vehicle 
efficiency and supporting the shift toward vehicle electrification, we 
are excited to be part of the future of transportation. With increasing 
global awareness around climate-related risks, we believe that our 
products are well aligned to be part of the future of our industry. 
As a global leader in vehicle thermal management technology, 
Gentherm products have been shown to increase the efficiency of 
in-vehicle Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems 
as well as in-vehicle batteries and related components. These 
increased efficiencies reduce the energy usage, which in turn leads 
to the reduction of carbon emissions from passenger vehicles.26
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Climate Control Seat (CCS®) 
Our Climate Control Seat (CCS®) helps to efficiently create a level of comfort in a vehicle, allowing 
for greater HVAC efficiency, which contributes to reduced emissions. Our lineup includes CCS-A 
(Active) climate seat, which is based on our patented use of multiple thermoelectric devices as 
well as our CCS-V (Vent) seat that shapes the occupant’s climate with smart sensors that deploy 
our patented air moving devices, high power density heaters and convective heaters. Both deliver 
optimal comfort that redefines the travel experience while reducing overall vehicle energy needs. 
Whether a vehicle is powered by an internal combustion engine, a hybrid powertrain or a fully electric 
powertrain, our CCS seat products have been proven to improve their operating efficiency. 
Calculations based on market estimates: Global sales of 95 million vehicles, 10,000 miles per year , 
50/50 car/truck split, U.S. sales of 17 million vehicles, 10,000 miles per year , 50/50 car/truck split.27
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Battery Thermal Management
With our depth and breadth of expertise in advanced technologies, 
our Battery Thermal Management (BTM) team also produces products 
that increase vehicle efficiency. Our BTM lineup includes systems that 
improve the performance of the battery packs in hybrid-electric vehicles 
by heating a battery during cold conditions and cooling it during warm 
conditions. This temperature management works to ultimately increase 
the life of a battery pack, reducing waste by extending the useful life of 
the battery and delaying the need to recycle or dispose of the battery.
Our BTM team has also recently introduced flexible Cell Connecting 
Boards (CCB). Battery technology for electric vehicles continues 
to make significant advances, and our innovative Cell Connecting 
technology is another example of how we are providing the solutions 
our customers want and need to help drive the electric vehicle 
movement. The battery pack for an electric vehicle consists of individual 
battery cells that are organized in series and parallel and play a critical 
role in the overall performance and safety of an electric vehicle. 
Within the battery pack, our Cell Connecting System provides a reliable 
and continuous flow of temperature and cell voltage information 
during the charging and discharging process, ensuring performance 
and safety. The CCB technology is also more environmentally friendly, 
since it eliminates the acids and other chemicals used in the chemical 
etching process and uses aluminum that is readily recyclable. “ With the continuing 
changes and advances in 
automotive technology, 
Gentherm is poised to be 
a part of the future – and 
we believe our Battery 
Thermal Management 
(BTM) products are game-
changing technologies. 
Whether it’s increasing 
the efficiency of electric 
components or creating 
new environmentally 
friendly manufacturing 
techniques, the Gentherm 
BTM team is a big piece of 
the Gentherm portfolio. ” 
  THOMAS STOCKER
Senior Vice President and  
General Manager , 
Global Automotive
28
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
ClimateSense™
Gentherm’s world class engineering team is also hard at work on the development of ClimateSense™ an 
intelligent, integrated automotive microclimate system that embodies what Gentherm can deliver – thermal 
solutions that break boundaries between “what is” and “what is possible. ” This highly innovative system 
creates personalized comfort while reducing vehicle energy consumption related to thermal comfort. 
A recent collaboration with a major North American auto manufacturer to better understand the potential 
effectiveness of microclimate comfort system identified significant energy reductions for thermal comfort 
delivered by ClimateSense™ (HVAC related testing on a mass market EV, based on two occupants in 
vehicle). These findings were presented at recent industry conferences and highlighted results including:
 › Cold Weather T esting: Over 50-69 percent energy savings (this also translates to 
electric vehicle range extension – adding approximately 50 miles to the range)
 › Hot Weather T esting: 34 percent energy savings
 › In addition, ClimateSense™ reduces the size of an existing HVAC system by 30 – 50 percent, 
which both reduces the material needed for HVAC manufacturing and overall waste
The proliferation of ridesharing, electrification and autonomous vehicles has created a need to 
redesign the interior of a vehicle. Yet, when we look at the interior cabin of today’s vehicle, the HVAC 
and thermal management approach has only seen minor incremental changes over the last 50 
years. Our ClimateSense™ system demonstrates that it can be the solution that meets the industry’s 
electrification goals of increased vehicle range and energy savings, while creating the overall 
passenger experience that will meet the demands of electric, ride-share and autonomous vehicles.29
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 Gentherm Medical
As we have grown and developed our expertise in thermal technologies, 
Gentherm is excited that we have also been able to put our knowledge 
and experience to use in the medical arena. Our expertise in thermal 
solutions for automotive enables us to develop a full line of patient 
temperature management solutions for the healthcare market. 
Our line of medical products includes whole body warming and 
cooling for targeted temperature management, normothermia 
maintenance, and localized thermal application therapies. 
At Gentherm we put the needs of people first. You’ll notice the 
difference in every aspect of our work, from our quality control 
production procedures straight through to the variety of products 
and services that we offer . Our complete line of hyper-hypothermia 
products include heat and cold therapy units along with a 
complete line of warming blankets and cooling blankets for body 
temperature regulation and hyper-hypothermia treatment. 
All Gentherm products were designed with both the caregiver and 
the patient in mind. We understand the pressure faced by healthcare 
professionals today to reduce costs without sacrificing patient safety, 
comfort, and quality of care. Gentherm provides solutions to help meet 
clinical needs with a full line of temperature management products. 
Blanketrol® III, our leading flagship brand, is a hyper-hypothermia 
device that is used to help maintain or change a patient’s temperature 
with the use of Kool-Kit® disposable wraps and blankets.  
These blankets and wraps are placed around the patient, and 
temperature-controlled water is recirculated through them to help 
regulate a patient’s temperature. For example, Blanketrol® III is 
utilized in patient fever control.  While fever can be beneficial when 
the body is naturally fighting an infection, studies in ICU patients 
have shown that fever control reduces oxygen demand and preserves 
organ tissue oxygenation during shock. The Blanketrol® III can 
help reduce a patient’s fever without the risk of invasive devices.“ At Gentherm Medical,  
we are excited to apply  
our depth of knowledge 
related to thermal 
management to medical 
products utilized in treating 
and caring for patients. 
Patient temperature 
management is an 
essential part of patient 
care, and we are proud to 
make medical devices that 
truly make a difference 
to clinicians and patients 
in times of need. ” 
  JIM PALOYAN
Senior Vice President and  
General Manager ,  
Medical Business Unit
30
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Our Communities:  
Committed to Progress
 
At Gentherm, we support initiatives and institutions around the globe that improve the communities 
where we live and work. Making our communities a better place is integral to what we do and who we 
are. Since our company was founded, donating to charities, educational organizations and disaster 
relief efforts worldwide has been a key part of our organization. We are committed to remaining 
active in the community and continuing our legacy of corporate responsibility and volunteerism 
as well as educating and improving the lives of the next generation through STEM education.
From providing food, shelter, healthcare and mentoring, we are committed 
to improving the communities where we live and work. Through our 
corporate contributions and employee volunteer initiatives, we demonstrate 
that we care about the future of the communities where we operate.31
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Charity Outreach
At Gentherm, being a part of the community does not just mean 
taking care of our employees and the environment, it also means 
taking on activities and causes that make those communities better . 
At each Gentherm location around the world, our 
teams work to identify local causes and issues 
that they can help with, and we empower our 
teams to support those causes and take action.
At our Northville, Michigan site we formed a partnership with 
The Children’s Center , a Detroit based organization that provides 
support and service for children in need. As a proud sponsor of 
their annual Power of Possibilities breakfast and Autoglow sponsor 
we were honored to help support their important mission. 
T o help local families in need during the holiday season, our 
Cincinnati, Ohio location launched efforts to provide gifts and 
support to 10 families in need through the local Salvation Army 
programs. Our Northville, Michigan location also partnered with 
the local Salvation Army, supporting their Angel T ree drive to make 
sure that children in need have gifts during the holiday season. 
In Germany, our team in Odelzhausen has an annual program to 
support the local Kinderhospiz St. Nikolaus, providing support for 
children and their families dealing with severe medical issues. 
At our locations in Mexico, our teams understand that education is a 
major part of children’s futures, so the sites work each year to provide 
backpacks and school supplies to the local community. In 2019, 
over 500 backpacks filled with school supplies were distributed to 
children in need. Backpacks also surfaced as a need for the Judson 
Center in Michigan, so our Northville team stepped up to support, 
collecting backpacks that were provided to children in need.
Each year , our Ukraine team organizes a volunteer event 
to help clean up the local river , collecting garbage and 
waste that would otherwise pollute the environment. 
In North Macedonia, our team organizes and sponsors an annual 
5-K run, with proceeds supporting a charity focused on providing 
services to individuals and their families affected by cerebral palsy. 
In 2019, over 1,200 runners, including 400 Gentherm employees, 
took part in this event, raising thousands of dollars for the cause.Adopt a Family with the 
Salvation Army
Cincinnati, Ohio, USA
Blessings in a Backpack donation
Northville, Michigan, USA
Local river clean up
Vynohradiv, Ukraine
We Care 5k Run
Prilep, North Macedonia32
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Education 
Just like we want to provide careers and opportunities 
for our employees, Gentherm also extends that to the 
communities where we do business. Our actions can help 
shape the future careers of not just our employees, but also 
those in the communities where we work and live.
As a technology company, we are always looking to 
support the next wave of engineers and scientists. 
With that in mind, our employees in Northville, Michigan volunteer 
their time to mentor teams in the FIRST Robotics Competition 
program. FIRST is a global program that includes 660,000 
students in more than 110 countries, working in teams to design 
and build robots that compete in a series of events. Our employee 
volunteers have been supporting this program since 2015, and we 
are proud of our ongoing commitment to the organization. With 
our employees’ time and Gentherm’s financial support, we look 
to help develop the next great wave of technology leaders.
In 2019, our site in Vietnam hosted a career day with almost 
400 students in attendance. The students toured the facility, 
learned about our products and processes and participated 
in an open discussion with site management.2019 FIRST Robotics submission
Northville, Michigan, USA33
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
Stakeholders and Supply Chain 
Our drive for sustainability and treating people the right way does not only cover our 
sites and our people,  we also work to hold our entire supply chain accountable. Our 
Supplier Code of Conduct and our Gentherm Supplier Requirements Manual provide 
key directions to our suppliers around a wide range of topics, including:
 › Labor and Human Rights, including child labor and human trafficking
 › Restrictions against corruption, bribery and extortion
 › Health and safety activities
 › Environmental accountability, including encouraging suppliers to align with ISO-14001 standards
 › Gentherm rights to audit and review their operations for a variety of items
We also work to promote diversity throughout our supply chain, with the Gentherm Diversity 
Supplier program. Under this program, we work to increase the diversity of our purchasing 
spend. Whether it’s productive material purchases, non-productive materials, or purchased 
services, we are always looking to drive supplier diversity and inclusiveness.
Before Gentherm adds any significant vendor to our supply chain, we complete a thorough pre-screen,  
including an assessment form that ensures that the vendor’s actions and activities around environmental 
practices, human rights and general ethics align with the Gentherm culture and values.34
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
“ Here at Gentherm, 
making sure that our 
corporate practices are 
robust, transparent and 
fully aligned with all 
stakeholders is essential to 
our success. Our executive 
leadership team, including 
our CEO and our Board 
take this commitment 
seriously and believe that 
our Corporate Governance 
is the foundation on which 
so many other components 
of Gentherm are built. ” 
  WAYNE KAUFFMAN
Vice President,  
General Counsel and Secretary
Governance  
We believe that a strong, sustainable company is built upon a 
foundation of corporate governance. Our corporate governance 
structure is designed in a manner that both supports who we 
are as a Company, as well as providing guidance for where we 
want to go and making sure we get there in the right way.
Our Executive Leadership T eam, including our Chief Executive 
Officer and our Board of Directors are held to the highest standards 
and we expect full compliance with our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, our corporate governance policies and much more.
For more information on our Corporate Governance structure and 
practices, refer to our annual Proxy Statement, or visit our Governance 
section at Gentherm.com ( https://gentherm.gcs-web.com/charters ).35
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 
2020 Plans and Commitments
 
“ Our team is proud 
to publish this first 
sustainability report. 
 While many of the topics 
covered here are items that 
have long been a focus 
of the Gentherm team, 
bringing this information 
into one place and 
understanding our impact 
and opportunities to 
advance is a significant step 
forward and energizes our 
team around the world. ” 
 JAYMI WILSON
Vice President, Strategy, 
Marketing and Communications
This is our inaugural sustainability report, but this certainly is not the 
first time we’ve thought about these topics. People, Planet and Places 
are not just three words, they are a commitment from our team to 
continue to move forward, to continually strive to get better at what 
we do and how we do it. For 2020, we are focused on foundational 
programs and projects that will help us drive positive change, including:
 › Developing a baseline of key sustainability metrics.
 › Evaluating a broad range of sustainability measures, including 
those we have already implemented in some locations 
as well as benchmarking other measures implemented 
by companies in the industries in which we operate.
 › Scaling and advancing our sustainability activities 
and best practices across our many locations.
 › Continued focus on the safety of our employees to 
drive reduction of accidents and near misses.
 › Raising awareness and global engagement on sustainability 
from all levels of the organization, including support 
from CEO-led global town-hall meetings, employee 
engagement, internal communications and more.
We are proud of our company, our employees and 
our products. We are excited about where we can go 
as we continue to drive Gentherm forward.
If you have any questions or need further information, 
please visit our website at Gentherm.com  or email 
our team at Sustainability@Gentherm.com .36
Gentherm Sustainability Report – 2019 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS / DISCLAIMERS / ETC.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe 
harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These 
forward-looking statements represent our goals, beliefs, plans and expectations 
about our prospects for the future and other future events. Such statements may 
be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “anticipates, ” 
“appears, ” “believes, ” “continues, ” “could, ” “designed, ” “effect, ” “estimates, ” 
“evaluates, ” “expects, ” “forecasts, ” “goal, ” “initiative, ” “intends, ” “may, ” “objective, ” 
“outlook, ” “plans, ” “potential, ” “priorities, ” “project, ” “pursue, ” “seek, ” “should, ” 
“target, ” “when, ” “will, ” “would, ” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the 
negative of such terms. The forward-looking statements included in this document 
are made as of the date hereof or as of the date specified and are based on 
management’s reasonable expectations and beliefs. Such statements are subject 
to a number of assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which 
are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, which could cause actual 
results to differ materially from that described in the forward looking statements. 
Such risks and uncertainties include the risks noted in reports that we file with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors identified in our 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, as well as 
additional factors we may describe from time to time in other filings with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we expressly 
disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update any forward-looking statements 
to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in 
events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. 
Statements regarding our policies, guidelines or goals are aspirational in nature. 
They are not promised to be delivered nor guaranteed for achievement. We 
cannot guaranty that our employees and suppliers follow the requirements 
of our codes, policies and guidelines in all circumstances. Standards of 
measurement of performance are developing and based on estimates. 
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Gentherm”, “the Company”, 
“we”, “our” and “us” in this report refer to Gentherm Incorporated and 
its consolidated subsidiaries. The content of this report generally covers 
subject matter for the 2019 calendar year unless otherwise noted and 
is limited to operations owned [and/or operated] by Gentherm. 
Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report relates to our continuing 
operations, excluding businesses disposed or acquired in 2019. During the 2019 
calendar year , Gentherm completed the divestiture of the Cincinnati Sub-Zero T est 
Chamber business, effective February 1, 2019, and the Global Power T echnology 
business, effective October 1, 2019, and completed the acquisition of Stihler 
Electronic GmbH, effective April 1, 2019. All three such entities are excluded 
from this report and the numerical metrics disclosed herein do not include the 
impact of operations for any of these three entities for any portion of 2019.