www.gentherm.com
2021
sustainabilit y   
reportTechnology to the next degree™ 2 3
www.gentherm.com
INTRODUCTION
Gentherm continues to make strides on our sustainability journey. In 2021 we 
continued working toward our established environmental performance and 
efficiency metrics, resulting in our team achieving our targeted efficiency levels 
in just two years. We also worked to ensure that our metrics and our reporting 
continue to align with industry benchmarks and sustainability standards, 
including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Additionally, we launched our 
first web-based sustainability system, supporting environmental data tracking 
and increased transparency of our progress and our actions. 
While there is  work ahead as we grow our sustainability practices, our 
commitment to People, Planet, and Places guides our actions as we build 
positive, lasting impact for our employees, customers, and stakeholders.
“We know sustainability is a key ingredient to creating value for our customers  
and shareholders. The strides we made, along with the strong foundation we have 
built, shows investors and other stakeholders how integral sustainability is to 
Gentherm’s mission and long-term strategy. ” 
Yijing Brentano
SVP of Strategy, Corporate
Development and Investor RelationsContents
INTRODUCTION 2
A Letter From Our CEO 4
About Us 6
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 8
Leadership  9
Supporting Systems   9
Reporting Standards & T ransparency 10
TECHNOLOGY 11
Gentherm Automotive 12
2021 T echnology Awards 15
2021 Quality / Supplier Awards  15
Medical 16
PEOPLE 17
Winning Culture Behaviors 18
Human Capital 18
Health and Safety 20
Diversity, Equity + Inclusion 21
T otal Rewards 22
Talent Development 23
Cybersecurity / IT T raining Sessions  25
Ethics and Compliance 26
Human Rights 27
PLANET 28
Metrics  29
Targets 31
ISO-14001  33
PLACES 35
Places  36
STAKEHOLDERS & SUPPLY CHAIN 38
GOVERNANCE 40
2022 PLANS & COMMITMENTS 42Technology to the next degree™ 4 5
www.gentherm.comAt Gentherm we strive to positively impact lives and make meaningful 
differences in everyday life. We know being responsible global 
citizens means we must put sustainability at the core of our 
business. T o do this we are developing products that make 
a positive impact on our environment, actively engaging in 
the communities where we do business, and working to 
build strong employee engagement.
I am extremely proud of what the Gentherm team was 
able to accomplish in 2021, in what was a continuously 
challenging operating environment. T o continue driving 
sustainability forward, our team is developing a net-zero 
carbon position plan which is being thoughtfully developed, 
taking into consideration our customers, suppliers, and other 
stakeholders.
As part of our commitment to sustainability, in 2021 we filed our CDP Climate Change submission 
for the first time. This submission increases our transparency in this area, and also helps identify 
further opportunities for progress. We also worked to significantly improve our environmental data 
measurement by implementing a web-based sustainability tool.
Gentherm’s commitments to People, Planet, and Places are interconnected. Our success depends on 
our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate our team members. T o do this, we prioritize the health and 
safety of our global team and create a diverse workforce that helps inspire innovation.
Sustainability begins with our mission to create and deliver extraordinary thermal solutions 
that improve health, wellness, comfort and energy efficiency. We believe our current and 
future technologies play an important role in leading the development of sustainable, safe, 
and intelligent solutions for electric vehicles and the future of mobility.
We have made great progress toward our sustainability goals over the past few years. T ogether we  
will continue our journey to create a sustainable future for our employees, customers, communities,  
and stakeholders.
Sincerely,  
Phil Eyler 
President and Chief Executive Officer
A LETTER FROM OUR CEO
gentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Technology to the next degree™ 6 7
www.gentherm.com
About Us 
Gentherm creates and delivers thermal solutions making meaningful differences in everyday 
life—improving health, wellness, comfort, and energy efficiency—making the world a better 
place for generations to come. 
gentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021 gentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
IN 2021, GENTHERM’S SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM WAS 
RECOGNIZED FOR OUR ACHIEVEMENTS
Investor’s Business Daily 100 Best ESG Companies:   
T op Stocks For Environmental, Social And Governance 
Values, recognizing companies with strong stocks  
and growth without trading off environmental, social, and 
governance values.
America’s Most Responsible Companies – Newsweek:  
Identifying companies that work to be corporate citizens 
and to give back to the communities they operate in.
as of 12.31.2021gentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Sustainability 
Approach
Sustainability is more than environmental impact. It affects our people,  
the planet, and where we live and work, touching every corner of our 
company. It is weaved throughout our products and technology. We drive  
our sustainability program by raising awareness, building support, and 
creating excitement among our employees and stakeholders.
Technology to the next degree™ 9 10
www.gentherm.comLEADERSHIP 
An Environmental, Social, & Governance (ESG) steering 
committee, comprised of five senior leaders, sustainability 
program leaders, and key contributors from manufacturing, 
human resources, and corporate strategy, meet regularly to 
help drive our program forward. Project activity and status  
are reviewed, goals are set, messaging is determined, and 
new policies and actions are put into place. 
Our Board of Directors’ Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee also provides oversight around 
Gentherm’s corporate responsibility and sustainability. 
This committee reviews and provides feedback about our 
sustainability activities at least quarterly, with a report to the 
Board of Directors at least annually.  
We foster support for our ESG program by linking it to 
compensation for certain senior leaders through the 
performance modifier in our annual bonus plan. This affects 
those leaders’ bonuses based on the achievement of our 
strategic goals. We also establish individual performance 
metrics tied to ESG goals for other specific employees.
SUPPORTING SYSTEMS  
Measuring and ensuring sustainability data is reliable  
and accessible is essential to improving comparability  
across companies and industries. In 2021, Gentherm 
improved our data measurement process by engaging  
a web-based sustainability application, the Bee, provided  
by Manufacture2030. 
This application helps support our data in two key areas. 
The first is tracking the status of our sustainability projects, 
calculating our environmental projects’ impact, and 
suggesting new sustainability projects. The system also 
supports environmental metric calculations by using raw 
metrics from our global locations and helping calculate key 
measurables such as GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 
and cost impact. REPORTING STANDARDS & TRANSPARENCY
As our sustainability practices grow and evolve, Gentherm looks to industry benchmarks and 
standards for guidance and direction. Similar to 2020, for 2021 we disclosed information aligned with 
SASB Standards for Auto Parts and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) (see 
Appendix for details). In summer 2021 we also filed our first CDP Climate Change response, providing 
insight into opportunities for improved activities and increased transparency.  SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY  APPROACH
PEOPLE 
At Gentherm, our 
leaders treat employees 
with respect and 
provide a safe working 
environment. We provide 
career opportunities, 
development, support 
and more. People create 
our success.PLANET 
We strive to minimize our 
environmental impact.  
Our product lineup reduces 
the environmental impact 
of automobiles through 
our innovative products 
and technologies, and we 
continue to improve our 
operations through more 
efficient use of resources 
and reduced emissions.PLACES 
As a global company, 
we strive to be a positive 
force in the communities 
where we operate. Our 
teams support an array 
of causes, including 
STEM education and 
training, and provide 
financial support for 
local charities. Types of 
community involvement 
and support vary across 
our sites, based on local 
needs and culture.
This system is endorsed by three of Gentherm’s largest customers, allowing us to work with 
them using improved data communication and transparency, helping us as we strive to increase 
sustainability across the supply chain.gentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Technology
Gentherm’s product portfolio delivers on our mission statement—making 
meaningful differences in everyday life, by improving health, wellness, 
comfort, and energy efficiency—by contributing to vehicle efficiency and 
occupant comfort. This includes vehicles with an internal combustion  
engine as well as electric vehicles. 
Technology to the next degree™ 12 13
www.gentherm.com
5,600,000   
gallons of gasoline consumed6,000,000,000  
smartphones charged6,000  
average U.S. home’s electricity 
usage for one year50,000,000 KG OF CO 2 IS APPROXIMATELY EQUIVALENT TO:
* Based on annual global volume of 80,000,000 vehicles (50/50 car truck split), with 25% use rate, and 15,000 miles driven per 
yearCLIMATESENSE™
Gentherm’s ClimateSense™ is a microclimate comfort system based on cutting-edge hardware 
operating in coordination with advanced software algorithms, delivering optimal passenger comfort 
with improved energy efficiency. It focuses on heating and cooling each vehicle passenger directly 
rather than centrally heating and cooling the cabin air around them, delivering a personalized comfort 
solution for each individual only when their seat is occupied. In 2021, we received our first production  
vehicle award for this technology, paving the way for future growth.
Over 50-69%
energy savingscold  weather  testing :  
(-7c)
Over 34%
energy savingshot weather  testing : 
(25c with  850 w/m2 solar  load )External testing in electric vehicles has 
shown that traditional central HVAC  
systems for heating in cold temperatures 
can reduce range by up to 30%.  
ClimateSense™ has the potential to reduce 
range degradation by up to 75%.
Note: T esting conducted on a mass market EV, based on two occupants in vehicle. More details here.TECHNOLOGY
“Gentherm continues to offer technologies to customers worldwide that 
reduce overall energy needs. Working together we can benefit our key 
stakeholders as well as our customers’ stakeholders. ”
Electrified vehicle production, including mild hybrid, full hybrid, and battery electric, is expected 
to grow from 20% of global production in 2021 to 70% in 2030 (IHS Markit ). Our technologies 
promote increased efficiency and electric range by reducing overall energy consumption of a vehicle, 
positioning Gentherm as a major driver and thought leader in the area. 
GENTHERM AUTOMOTIVE
CLIMATE CONTROL SEATS (CCS)
Gentherm’s CCS seating products include CCS-A (active) and CCS-V (vent). Both products employ 
patented technologies to provide heating and cooling / venting through the seating surfaces, 
delivering optimal passenger comfort while reducing overall vehicle energy needs. The National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory, part of the U.S. Department of Energy, conducted testing verifying 
vehicles using Gentherm’s CCS products have lower CO 2 output rates (per mile driven, under similar 
conditions) than those not similarly equipped.
T o help demonstrate the actual and potential impact of carbon dioxide reduction driven by Gentherm’s 
CCS-V seats, if 15% of all new vehicles sold globally in a year included our CCS-V seats, we estimate 
that the resulting tailpipe emissions avoidance would be over 50,000,000 kg CO 2*— an amount almost 
20,000,000 kg greater than Gentherm’s total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.Cars with:
Trucks with:CCS-V  1.0 gram / mile
CCS-V  1.3 gram / mileCCS-A  2.3 gram / mile
CCS-A  2.9 gram / mile
Helen Xu
SVP & General Manager , Climate and Comfort  
Solutions and Managing Director of AsiaTechnology to the next degree™ 14 15
www.gentherm.com
BATTERY PERFORMANCE SOLUTIONS (BPS)
Gentherm’s BPS product portfolio includes systems that improve the performance of the battery 
packs in hybrid-electric vehicles by heating a battery during cold conditions and cooling it during 
warm conditions. This temperature management technology increases the life of a battery pack, 
reducing waste by delaying the need to recycle or dispose of the battery.
As part of our BPS, our Cell Connecting Boards (CCB) system within the battery pack provides a 
reliable and continuous flow of temperature and cell voltage information during the charging and 
discharging process, ensuring performance and safety. This technology also eliminates the use of 
acids and other chemicals used for chemical etching, as well as utilizing readily-recyclable aluminum.  
“The technology we developed to make electric vehicles more efficient 
and effective is here, today. The more it is adopted, the more we will 
contribute to decreasing greenhouse gas emissions. ” 2021 TECHNOLOGY AWARDS
German Innovation Award for our innovative and proprietary 
technologies around Cell Connecting Systems with Mechanical 
Structuring Process (MSP), essential technologies of our BPS  
product line.
China Automobile Parts Industry Development and Innovation  
Award, also for our Cell Connecting Systems with Mechanical 
Structuring Process (MSP).  
2021 QUALITY / SUPPLIER AWARDS 
• Bosch Global Supplier Award
• GM Supplier of the Year , awarded to less than  
1% of GM’s supply base globally
• Honda Excellence in Value Award (North America,  
second consecutive year)  
• Lear Changan, Excellent Supplier Award  
(Langfang, China)
• Sanyo T rading T op Performing Supplier , Excellence  
in Quality and Continuous Improvement (Vietnam)
TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY
Thomas Stocker
SVP & General Manager , Digital Interiors and  
Battery Performance Solutions and Managing Director of EuropeTechnology to the next degree™ 16MEDICAL
Like Gentherm’s automotive solutions, thermal 
management technologies are a central feature 
at Gentherm Medical. 
With the COVID-19 pandemic continuing in 
2021, Gentherm Medical saw increased demand 
for its Blanketrol® III used to raise, lower , or 
maintain a patient’s temperature. Because 
fever is a key concern with COVID-19 patients, 
the Blanketrol III can help caregivers manage 
patients’ temperatures accurately, and it can 
help reduce a patient’s fever without the risk of 
invasive devices. 
As hospitals return to more normal operations, 
Gentherm is excited for our customers to 
experience our Astopad® patient warming 
systems. Launched at the end of 2020, the 
Astopad® patient warming system provides 
the benefit of resistive warming as compared 
to conventional air and water devices. With 
an expected increase in elective surgeries as 
the pandemic ebbs, this technology is ideal 
for the operating room and anywhere in a 
hospital where quiet, comfortable, and reliable 
warming is needed to help prevent and treat 
hypothermia in a surgical patient.
“Instead of letting the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic slow down the 
medical team, we made a concerted effort to learn and grow from 
the challenges thrown our way. We are proud of the strides we 
made and have a solid path forward for growth. ” TECHNOLOGY
Steve Fletcher
SVP & General Manager , Medicalgentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
People
Gentherm’s mission—to create and deliver extraordinary thermal  
solutions that make meaningful differences in everyday life, by improving 
health, wellness, comfort, and energy efficiency—is brought to life each  
day by our people.  
Technology to the next degree™ 18 19
www.gentherm.comWINNING CULTURE BEHAVIORS
Customer focus, global mindset, performance and accountability, and employee engagement and 
inclusion shape our Winning Culture Behaviors. Some examples of team members from across the 
globe who exemplify Gentherm’s Winning Culture Behaviors in 2021 include: 
HUMAN CAPITAL
We aspire to attract, develop and retain results-driven, high-performance talent while providing 
each employee with a compelling and personal experience. We also strive to promote a safe work 
environment and a culture that values fairness, diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging.
Our global workforce creates a competitive advantage and operates in 12 countries in 23 locations. 
Workforce
asia
23%
europe
41%north   
america
36%
58%  
of global  workforce  
is femaleracially  and/or ethnically  diverse
(self-reported)
36%
all employees23%
leadership
CUSTOMER FOCUS
Brian Ballman, Gentherm Medical Plant Manager , Cincinnati, Ohio. Brian led 
an “all hands on deck” effort supported by the site’s capital equipment team 
to work around supply chain disruptions and fulfill customer orders.
Since the onset of the pandemic, Gentherm’s 
human capital goals have evolved to a more 
flexible, personal, employee value proposition, 
ensuring that we are aiding our employees in 
navigating through the demands of maintaining  
a proper work-life balance. We introduced a  
new flexible working guideline called “Locate for 
Your Day. ”    
ENGAGEMENT AND INCLUSION
Thania Esquivel, Global Marketing Director , Northville, Michigan. Thania 
led the formation of Gentherm’s Diversity, Equity + Inclusion council and 
supported employee engagement to drive an enhanced, diverse work culture.
In November 2021, we completed our first 
global engagement survey with a best-in-class 
response rate of 97%, nearly 20 points above 
the manufacturing benchmark. Survey results 
combined with several new listening tools help our 
managers adapt to meet the needs of our workforce 
and further enhance our culture.97%  
Response  
Rate10,000+  
employee  
responsesHuman Capital
GLOBAL MINDSET
Harald Heimerl, Executive Director of Program Management, Odelzhausen, 
Germany. Through process enhancement and structure optimization, Harald 
helped drive major transformation in our global climate and comfort business. 
PERFORMANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Tim Cao, Purchasing Category Director , Shanghai, China. Tim worked 
closely with a key manufacturing partner affected by component shortages 
and COVID outbreaks, leading daily communications for many months to 
manage through the supply challenges and help Gentherm deliver on our 
commitments.
PEOPLE PEOPLE
2pts vs 2020 3pts vs 2020
“Our engagement 
survey is the 
voice of our 
employees 
across the 
globe and the 
blueprint to 
fortify and enhance 
a culture of trust and transparency. ” 
Barb Runyon
SVP & Chief Human Resources OfficerTechnology to the next degree™ 20 21
www.gentherm.comHEALTH AND SAFETY
Gentherm continues to follow the Vision Zero strategy, emphasizing health and safety within our 
culture and values. Beyond committing to Vision Zero’s Seven Golden Rules to eliminate work 
accidents and injuries, Gentherm is continuing to get better at identifying hazards and unsafe 
behaviors before they happen by implementing “near miss reporting. ”  
Benchmarking among Gentherm sites has fostered significant optimization and continual 
improvement. By implementing these routine components in daily work, the overall safety culture  
continues to improved across all Gentherm operations. We reduced lost work-time incidents by 75%  
since 2018.
Approximately 60% of all Gentherm employees operate in facilities that are ISO 45001 (OHSAS 
18001) certified, with two major facilities forecasting certification in 2022, which would bring our total 
to over 80%.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY + INCLUSION
Our DE+I mission cascades from our corporate mission: 
Embracing Diversity Inspires Innovation. We are building a culture of 
belonging where we value our differences to positively impact the lives  
of our employees, customers and communities.
Three platforms organize our efforts:   
Connect
Enhance our local communities where we operate.
Collaborate
Engage with our employees and provide a strong  
employee experience.
Cultivate
Enrich the capabilities and skills of our employees  
and acquire diverse talent.
Gentherm’s DE+I Council built strong momentum in 2021 with monthly 
engagement activities and enrichment programming promoting awareness 
and celebrating ethnic and underrepresented employees within the company. 
Activities included inclusion trainings called “Elevate the Dialogue” to all 
global people leaders, educating team members on consistent standards, 
identifying feedback mechanisms to solve for conflict, and creating a culture 
that unites us all. We also trained our senior leaders to build awareness of 
unconscious bias. 
Our executives continue to lead by example. Gentherm’s CEO is an active 
member of the Center for Automotive Diversity and Inclusion (CADIA) CEO 
Council and recently signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge. PEOPLE
Technology to the next degree™ 22 23
www.gentherm.comTOTAL REWARDS
Gentherm is refreshing its overall compensation structure to ensure we are providing contemporary 
and equitable total rewards across our business. Compensation and benefits programs are designed 
to attract, motivate, and retain our employees in the locations where we compete for talent, consistent 
with employee positions, skill levels, experience, knowledge, and geographic location. 
We align our executives’ and eligible employees’ annual bonus opportunity and long-term equity 
compensation with our shareholders’ interests by linking realizable pay with company financial and 
stock performance.  
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
T raining underpins our focus on helping team members realize their full potential. Foundational 
leadership development programs ensure our people leaders are equipped to engage and lead  
in today’s complex business environment. We also expanded our training programs to provide  
on-demand, flexible learning solutions for our global salaried workforce.
Our aspiration is for leaders to operate as coaches and give meaningful, real-time feedback to team 
members. Our performance management process is designed for everyday coaching combined with 
formal performance goals discussions four times per year . Coaching is focused on reaching objectives 
(“the what”) within our company’s Winning Culture Behaviors (“the how”).   2021 FAST FACTS 
• T rained 600 leaders in Gentherm’s 
!MPACT leadership development  
program 
• Introduced year-long Accelerator  
program, giving high potential  
participants access to executive  
leaders, concluding with a capstone  
presentation
• Provided over 300,000 hours of  
training for all employees including  
safety, quality, leadership, competency 
skills, personal effectiveness, and  
diversity, equity + inclusion 
• Completed over 8,000 cybersecurity  
training modules including security  
awareness, social engineering, and  
URL safety
• Completed over 7 ,000 ethics and  
compliance training sessionsPEOPLE PEOPLETechnology to the next degree™ 24 25
www.gentherm.comPEOPLE SPOTLIGHT
Across the world, we are focused on making sure Gentherm is a great place to work, that we present 
opportunities for our employees to succeed, and that we motivate our team to continue to work 
together . Some notable examples from 2021 follow. T alent Development
Mexico (Acuna)
A continuing education program provided classes 
in multiple subjects and the opportunity for 
employees to earn a high school equivalency 
diploma. More than 150 employees have earned 
their high school degree through this program 
since it began in 2017 , with 34 employees 
completing it in 2021. Another 121 employees 
also took classes to support their college and 
university studies this past year .121   
employees  
taking classes to  
support their college  
& university studiescompleted their high 
school degree34  
employees  
North Macedonia (Prilep)
Five certified trainers mentored our employees in North 
Macedonia, helping them develop skills around industrial 
mechatronics.mentor local colleagues5  
certified  trainers  
United States (Northville)
Health club memberships are subsidized  
to encourage exercise and well-being.  
Classes to support cigarette smoking 
cessation are also offered. 
Germany (Odelzhausen)
Online classes such as Mental Health 
Care and Healthy Sleep Training helped 
employees navigate added stress from 
COVID-19.
Vietnam (Ha Nam)
Onsite yoga classes, 
an annual marathon 
race, football 
tournaments, and 
a badminton club 
helped encourage 
the health and 
wellness of the team.  
WORKPLACE AWARDST alent Development
Michigan (Northville)
Named to Detroit Free Press’ list of Michigan 
T op Workplaces, determined through employee 
feedback measuring 15 culture drivers important to 
organizational success. 
Germany (Odelzhausen)
Named T op Employer for Engineering from Germany’s 
T op Employers Institute for the eighth consecutive year . 
Vietnam (Ha Nam)
Honored by the American Chamber 
of Commerce in Vietnam with the 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Award for its commitment to 
safeguarding employees and having 
a positive impact on the community 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
PEOPLE PEOPLE
CYBERSECURITY / IT TRAINING SESSIONS 
Gentherm’s cybersecurity and IT training programs are focused on ensuring our employees are 
knowledgeable about cybersecurity risks. We provided online training for security awareness, social 
engineering, and URL safety with over 8,000 modules completed in 2021.Technology to the next degree™ 26 27
www.gentherm.comETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
The Gentherm Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code 
of Conduct”) details expectations of our employees, providing 
guidance and direction across the entire organization. The Code of 
Conduct covers a multitude of topics including legal compliance, 
appropriate workplace conduct, anticorruption, gifts and gratuities, 
and conflicts of interest. It is part of the new hire and employee 
orientation at every Gentherm location, and it is available to our 
employees in 11 different languages.
GENTHERM ETHICS HOTLINE
Gentherm maintains a global, externally-hosted ethics hotline 
(here) with options for reporting via telephone or website when 
employees become aware of actions not aligned with our Code of 
Conduct or values. 
While employees can report issues directly to local management 
or use other available on-site resources, the hotline provides an 
anonymous, 24/7 resource for employees. The Gentherm Code of 
Conduct prohibits retaliation against any employee that reports an 
issue in good faith.
In 2021 we continued a global awareness campaign reminding 
employees of their responsibilities under the Code of Conduct and 
the resources available.
“At Gentherm, we make 
it a priority to provide 
easily-accessible 
ethics and compliance 
information in multiple 
languages to ensure our 
employees know how 
ingrained this is within all 
of our business practices. ” 
Matteo Anversa
EVP , Chief Financial Officer  
and TreasurerHUMAN RIGHTS
At Gentherm we firmly believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect. Our Code  
of Conduct clearly states our stance against harassment and discrimination, and to further clarify our 
position, we published a Global Human Rights Policy outlining our position on harassment, forced 
labor , child labor , safe working conditions, and labor practices. Our policy can be found here. 
In 2022 we are launching our next compliance training module, focusing on human trafficking  
and modern-day slavery. It is required training for our internal supply chain team and other key 
Gentherm employees. 
As a global company, we are aware of the risks of improper business conduct at our locations and  
throughout our supply chain, and we take those risks seriously. In all locations we expect our 
employees to operate with respect for all people and their well-being. As part of our annual 
sustainability survey, each location is required to outline the local steps and procedures taken  
to ensure we follow high standards related to our workforce and always operate in compliance  
with all applicable laws and regulations.   
Our commitment to human rights is also demonstrated in our annual conflict minerals process  
and filings. We conduct annual due diligence on the source and chain of custody of tantalum, tin, 
tungsten, and gold (3TG) and ensure compliance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  
rules governing the reporting of sources of 3TG used when producing our products. 
PEOPLE PEOPLE
ANNUAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST SURVEY 
Gentherm’s annual Conflict of Interest and Business Ethics Survey is another tool used to educate and 
reinforce to our employees the importance of doing business the right way. This survey is delivered to 
every active gentherm.com email and covers topics such as legal compliance, workplace conduct and 
harassment, insider trading, import-export and embargoed nations, bribery, and corruption. All survey 
results are reviewed by our compliance team, and any potential issues or concerns are investigated 
and reported to appropriate leadership.
COMPLIANCE TRAINING
In 2021, we launched our global web-based compliance training program. Our first program launched 
in mid-2021, and by year end we delivered over 7 ,000 training modules covering topics such as:
• Speaking Up In the Workplace – Do the Right Thing
• Avoiding Corruption and the FCPA
• Insider T rading – It’s Never a Good Ideagentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Planet
Protecting the environment is a shared global responsibility.  
As part of this responsibility, the automotive industry is significantly  
shifting toward energy efficiency and vehicle electrification. 
Technology to the next degree™ 29 30
www.gentherm.comGentherm is at the forefront of developing key technologies that support the future of transportation, 
including for vehicles powered by traditional internal combustion, a hybrid, or a full electric 
powertrain. Our technologies help reduce overall energy consumption, resulting in improved fuel 
efficiency, or improve the life and efficiency of batteries, contributing to increased adoption of 
powertrain electrification. Research shows various Gentherm products can reduce CO 2 output per mile 
or reduce electric vehicle range degradation associated with traditional HVAC systems. We believe our 
products are enabling a faster march toward electrification with innovative solutions, while improving 
passenger comfort.    
METRICS 
Measuring our activities and understanding the data drives resource efficiency throughout Gentherm’s 
operations. The information below summarizes key environmental metrics, both in absolute quantity 
and intensity (usage versus revenue). As Gentherm grows, we expect changes in total resources; by 
measuring intensity, we can measure our efforts to minimize our environmental impact.
“Gentherm products are poised to play a key role in the shift toward 
electrification, and that means our products are helping reduce the 
environmental impact related to transportation. We are excited to  
work with our customers to develop products that deliver 
environmental benefits. ”
  
ELECTRICITY
ELECTRICITY FROM  
RENEWABLES
WATER USAGE
SCOPE 1&2 GHG EMISSIONS
T otal Electricity Usage: 47,854 MWH
Note: Other than minor / pilot program solar power projects at select locations, 100% 
of Gentherm’s electricity is purchased from local municipal sources (local power grid).2030405060MWH PER $MIL REVENUE50.8
45.7
2020 2021From Renewable Resources: 5,744 MWH
12%
of all electricity  
used by Gentherm  
in 2021
9.5%
of all electricity  
used by Gentherm  
in 20202020
2021Water Usage: 136,654 m3
2020
2021
100 110 120 130 140
CUBIC METERS OF WATER  
PER $MIL REVENUE130.6139.8
Note: All water usage is provided by local municipal services, 
including being withdrawn from local sources per municipal 
services standard practices.
T otal Waste Generated: 7,236 MT
510METRIC TONS  
PER $MIL REVENUE7.056.92
0
2020 202140%
of all solid waste  
sent for recycling  
in 2021
38%
of all solid waste  
sent for recycling  
in 202039 mt
hazardous  
waste
1,865 mt
landfills
2,919 mt
recycled2,413 mt
incinerated
where  waste  
was sent  in 
2021CO2e: 33,331 MT
2020
2021
10 20 30 40 50
METRIC TONS PER $MIL REVENUE31.8634.49
Note: We calculate our Scope 1 
GHG emissions based on local 
direct use of resources such as 
natural gas and heating oil. 
We calculate our Scope 2 GHG 
emissions based on purchased 
power such as electricity and 
steam. See Appendix for more 
details on emissions data.
TOTAL SOLID WASTEPLANET PLANET
2020 20217%
improvement
10%
improvement2%
improvement8%
improvement
26%
improvementMatt Fisch
SVP & Chief T echnology OfficerTechnology to the next degree™ 31 32
www.gentherm.com
“While we are proud that 
we hit our seven-year 
environmental targets 
in less than the half 
the time we allocated, 
we are not resting on 
our accomplishments. 
Instead, this provides 
a base from where 
we will build more 
opportunities to improve 
our sustainability efforts. ” 
Rafael Barkas
SVP , Global Operations 
and Supply ChainTARGETS
In 2020, Gentherm established four environmental targets to measure our performance against our 
goals to reduce our resource intensity, choosing 2019 as our baseline. While global supply chain 
disruptions continue to challenge our productivity, our teams continue to work to drive improvement. 
As a result of this focus, our efficiency metrics show strong positive momentum. In 2021 we achieved 
our seven-year targets in just two years. With that in mind, our team will continue monitoring  
these metrics and examine possibilities to update them  
to ensure we keep driving our results forward.
Part of driving our efficiency and sustainability forward is 
making investments in areas related to energy efficiency.  
In 2021, Gentherm invested over $800,000 into projects 
that produced energy savings and improved efficiencies.  
Examples include new high efficiency heating and cooling 
equipment, electric car charging stations, continuing 
movement toward LED lighting, equipment to improve 
indoor air quality in manufacturing locations, and moving 
to energy efficient multi-stage air compressors. 
Electricity Usage T otal - MWH
Metric:  
Electricity Usage - MWH / $Mil. RevenueBaseline
2019Year 1
2020Year 2
2021Year 3
2022Year 4
2023Year 5
2024Year 6
2025Year 7
2026Target 
MetricPresent 
StatusImprov. 
GoalImprov. to 
DateStatus
49,837
51.346,427
50.847.7 45.7 7% 10.8%*target 
achieved
Metric:  
Waste to Recycling as a Percent of Total Waste33.6% 38.2%Waste to Recycling T otal - Metric T ons 2,534 2,462
35.9% 40.3% 7% 20.2%*target 
achieved
Hazardous Waste T otal - Metric T ons
Metric:  
Hazardous Waste - Metric Tons / $Mil. Revenue45
0.04633
0.0370.043 0.038 7% 18.9%*target 
achieved
  Water Usage T otal - Cubic Meters
Metric:  
Water Usage - Cubic Meters / $ Mil. Revenue141,236
145.3127 ,626
139.8135.2 130.6 7% 10.1%*target 
achieved47 ,854
45.7
2,919
40.3%
39
0.038
136,654
130.6
*For all metrics, even those noted as “achieved”, we will continue to monitor our progress versus baseline and toward our targets. We believe that the impact of 
COVID-19 on business operations in 2020 and 2021 may have resulted in metrics that are outliers / non-normal, and hence we may see reversions or data  
variance over the short term.  
SECTION NO.6  | planet PLANET
Technology to the next degree™ 33 34
www.gentherm.comISO-14001 
Gentherm looks toward ISO-14001 (environmental management systems) certification as a  
systematic approach to set and achieve environmental objectives and targets, especially for  
our manufacturing locations. In 2021, over 90% of our employees worked at locations that  
are ISO-14001 certified, including 100% of employees at automotive manufacturing locations.    
PLANET SPOTLIGHT
Every one of our sites impacts the environment—they use water and electricity, and generate some 
level of waste. Gentherm is focused on continuous improvement to minimize and mitigate these  
risks, and we are taking measurable actions to minimize our environmental impact. Local action 
improves global use of resources. At every Gentherm site around the world, our teams find ways  
to be more energy efficient, reduce their emissions, and drive our progress forward. A few  
examples include:
We anticipate these two locations will increase our renewable energy share by approximately 50% 
versus prior years and we forecast a 4-5% impact on our total Scope 2 emissions in 2022. Adding to 
the renewables increase, the Odelzhausen, Germany facility continues boosting its renewable usage to 
55% of its total power .NORTHVILLE, USA | STUTTGART, GERMANY entered  
arrangements to operate on 100% renewable energy
At our North Macedonia site, the team achieved the international ISO-50001 certification  for 
energy management systems in 2021, taking a huge step toward demonstrating its commitment to 
energy efficiency. Under the framework of the ISO-50001 process, the site is forecasting 4% annual 
improvements in energy efficiency.ACUÑA , MEXICO  installed solar  
panels that will provide outdoor  
lighting, reducing the need to use  
standard, non-renewable powerCELAYA , MEXICO  discharges its water  
to a water treatment facility industrial  
complex where it is cleaned and reused  
for irrigation within the complex
Acuña also worked on ways to reduce the waste generated during the production of specific parts; 
across six focus projects, the teams were able to reduce solid waste by an average of 19%. The team 
also worked to reduce the amount of adhesives used in other focus projects, completely eliminating 
adhesives in two part numbers.
JAPAN implemented “Bring Your Coffee Mug to Work”  
program to reduce the use of disposable paper cups
Embracing the philosophy that every bit helps, our sales office employees in Japan also brought in a 
small hand towel, eliminating paper towels for hand drying, wiping spills, and other similar uses. 
Our site in Vietnam also made strides in water conservation through local landscaping practices, 
letting the grass around the facility grow longer before cutting. This allowed the grass to grow 
thicker and deeper to better retain water . This action alone reduced water use for landscaping by 
approximately 70%, as well as requiring less energy for mowing and related equipment. 
Across Gentherm, recycling programs are vital to driving down the waste sent to landfills, and 
100% of Gentherm facilities have local recycling programs. From focusing on production waste at 
manufacturing sites, to packaging and pallets at our warehouses, down to printer paper , batteries,  
and plastic at our office sites, every Gentherm location has local practices driving recycling. 
  LANGFANG, CHINA  facility installed new equipment 
to more efficiently manage the site’s air compressors 
and 46 outdoor lights powered by solar panels,  
forecasting an annual savings of over 100,000 KWH -  
enough to power 70 homes for a full year* SHENZHEN, CHINA uses recycled water  
to cool equipment, allowing for  
temperature management without  
using fresh water
PLANET PLANET
*Based on average energy usage in Chinagentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Places
Gentherm strives to be a positive presence in communities where  
we do business, supporting local charities and being present in the 
community. We are more than just a place to work; we want to be  
part of the places where we operate.  
Technology to the next degree™ 36 37
www.gentherm.comPLACES 
A part of helping build strong connections in our 
community is providing ongoing support. We recently 
announced a five-year commitment to GreenLight Fund  
Detroit to provide an annual $50,000 donation for the 
next five years for a total of $250,000. GreenLight Fund 
Detroit helps open opportunities for children, youth, and 
families experiencing poverty, funding important programs 
in the area to help break down barriers to prosperity in high 
poverty areas. 
PLACES SPOTLIGHT
Mexico (Acuña)
Hosted “Operation Santa Claus” to collect and distribute 
donations of basic needs as well as toys for children in the 
area. The team also provided support to the Acuña Food 
Bank, helping to ensure food supply for those in need.
North Macedonia (Prilep)
Supported European Mobility Week in September , focused 
on raising awareness and encouraging the use of active 
mobility, public transportation, and other clean, sustainable 
means of transportation.
USA (Del Rio & Northville)
Bought lunch for the United Medical Center team as a 
simple way of saying thank you for their hard work and 
dedication in administering COVID-19 vaccines.
Hosted a canned food drive to support Hospitality House, 
a local organization that provides food and support for 
families in need, resulting in hundreds of cans of food and 
other necessities donated.
Ukraine (Vynohradiv)
Participated in “A City Without Garbage” for the 2nd year 
in a row, focusing on picking up trash and litter along the 
banks of a local river , resulting in 700 KG of plastic litter 
collected and sent to recycling.Hungary (Pilisszentivan)
Gifted a special desk to the Bethesda Children’s Hospital specially designed for children with 
disabilities, allowing them to better participate in educational and classroom activities.
China (Bantian)
Donated musical instruments to the local Autistic Children Care Center for children’s music classes.
Community involvement is also a trait we seek and encourage in our 
leadership. Members of our senior leadership team are active in their 
own communities, demonstrating commitment to People, Planet, 
and Places.
Barb Runyon, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources 
Officer , is a board member to several local organizations including Loyola High School of Detroit, 
Michigan State University’s School of Human Resources and Labor Relations, Detroit City Mission, 
and Urban League of Detroit and Southeastern Michigan. 
Jaymi Wilson, Senior Vice President Global Sales, Marketing and Corporate Communications, also 
gives back to the community by chairing the STEM Goes Red Campaign, part of the American Heart 
Association Go Red for Women.
“Across all of our Gentherm locations we have driven leaders and team 
members who make us proud every day through their hard work and 
determination to give back to their local communities. ”                                                                
PLACES PLACES
Gentherm employees 
provided 8,500+ of 
community volunteer 
hours
Jaymi Wilson
SVP Global Sales, Marketing and  
Corporate Communications39
www.gentherm.comgentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Stakeholders  
& Supply Chain
Our vision of sustainability is not limited to our sites and our people.  
We also consider our supply chain and our stakeholders. We want our 
business partners to have a positive sustainability stance aligned with 
Gentherm’s values and focused on continuous improvement.  
Gentherm publishes two key documents providing 
clarity and directions for our supply base: our 
Supplier Code of Conduct and our Supplier 
Requirements Manual, both available here.  
These documents detail our expectations around 
key topics such as health and safety; restrictions 
against corruption, bribery, and extortion; labor and 
human rights, including child labor and  
human trafficking; and Gentherm’s right to audit 
and review their operations across a range of topics.
Another vital piece of how we evaluate our 
stakeholders and supply chain is diversity.  
The Gentherm Supplier Diversity program seeks 
to increase the diversity of our purchasing spend. 
Whether related to productive materials, non-
productive materials, or purchased services, 
Gentherm strives to drive supplier diversity  
and inclusiveness.
In addition to our internal efforts to drive 
sustainability, Gentherm also recognizes that we 
are part of a bigger picture. With that in mind, 
Gentherm works closely with our customers to 
understand their sustainability ambitions and 
requirements. Our objective is not only to meet 
their expectations, but also to coordinate and 
cooperate with them to drive sustainability forward.  
From increasing our use of recycled materials 
to designing products for easier tear-down and 
recycling, Gentherm’s sustainability impact extends 
beyond just our sites.
STAKEHOLDERS & SUPPLY CHAIN41
www.gentherm.comgentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
Governance
Gentherm knows a great company is built on a foundation of strong  
corporate governance. Our corporate governance structure is designed  
to support who we are today as well as where we want to go in the  
future—and making sure we do it the right way.
At Gentherm, we know that a strong sustainability program, like many components of a successful 
business, is built on a foundation of corporate governance. Our program is designed to support the 
requirements of our company and our stakeholders, all while doing it the right way. Our executive 
leadership team, including our CEO and our Board of Directors, are held to high standards. We expect 
and demand compliance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our corporate governance 
policies, all applicable laws, and our Winning Culture Behaviors.
It is our goal to not only have a robust and thoughtful sustainability program, but also to ensure that 
we are transparent in our actions and in our results. The goal of our sustainability program is not 
limited to our internal efforts and results, but also to consider the impact on all of our stakeholders, 
including customers, suppliers, and shareholders. In order to achieve this, we continue to build and 
strengthen our program, including as noted previously, by adding oversight of our sustainability 
initiatives to the charter and responsibilities of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
(charter here).
For more information on our corporate governance structure and practices, refer to our annual Proxy 
Statement, or visit the Governance section of Gentherm.com ( here).
“Gentherm remains transparent in our corporate governance 
activities, fully supporting our corporate vision and 
approach to sustainability. ” 
GOVERNANCE
Wayne Kauffman
SVP , General Counsel and Secretary43
www.gentherm.comgentherm  sustainability  report   | 2021
2022 Plans & 
Commitments
People, Planet, and Places are not just three words, they capture Gentherm’s 
sustainability commitment, driving our actions and supporting activities that 
aim to create long-term value for our customers and stakeholders. In 2022, 
we see our sustainability efforts maturing and evolving to consider additional 
facets of sustainability and how it affects Gentherm’s overall business.
OUR 2022 PLANS INCLUDE:
• Developing a net-zero carbon position plan. Our leadership is committed to driving Gentherm to a net-zero 
carbon position, and we are developing our plan thoughtfully and with consideration for our customers,  
suppliers, and other stakeholders.  
• Increased reporting and alignment with third-party standards, focusing on TCFD and the T en Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact. While we already align with SASB and submit information to CDP , we want 
to expand our transparency and alignment and measure ourselves against frameworks at the forefront of 
sustainability.
• Implement additional risk and opportunity assessment procedures for our sustainability programs, including 
evaluating potential financial impacts and more fully integrating sustainability risks into our corporate  
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program.
• Continue to advance our internal sustainability structure, improve organizational refinement with focuses  
on benchmarking, roles and responsibilities, and increase engagement across Gentherm and our external 
stakeholders.  
• Develop our first ever Scope 3 GHG emissions calculation. Using standard methodologies, our team will  
evaluate all facets of Gentherm’s business to estimate each of the 15 standard categories of Scope 3  
emissions. This represents a major step toward the ability to fully understand a product’s full environmental 
impact – a step toward life cycle analysis (LCA).
If you have any questions or need further information, please visit our website at Gentherm.com or 
email our team at Sustainability@Gentherm.com.2022 PLANS & COMMITMENTSTechnology to the next degree™ 44AppendixTechnology to the next degree™ 45 46
www.gentherm.comSAFETY DEFINITIONS & INFORMATION:
Lost-Work Time Incidents: Any injury to health as a result of a one-time event with an impact of more than one day of 
absence, also includes injuries due to transportation in company-provided transportation or accidents during business 
trips. Also includes non-employee accidents / injuries on a Gentherm site. Lost-time incidents only includes “recoverable” 
accident, in which the person will fully recover from accident / injury.
Non-Recoverable Incidents:  Any injury to health as a result of a one-time event with an impact of more than one day of 
absence, also includes injuries due to transportation in company-provided transportation or accidents during business  
trips. Also includes non-employee accidents / injuries on a Gentherm site. Non-recoverable accidents indicate permanent 
injury in which the individual will not / may not fully recover .
Lost Time Case Rate (LTCR): Measured according to standard OSHA methodology. No data around on-site, work-related 
fatalities is recorded or reported in this report as Gentherm has not recorded an on-site, work-related fatality in our 20+  
year history.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
Political Donations: Gentherm does not donate to or allow the use of company funds to specifically support political 
purposes. In accordance with our internal Delegation of Authority policy, all charitable donations or similar activities must 
be approved by the Chief Executive Officer , and in agreement with the Chief Financial Officer , the Chief Human Resources 
Officer , and General Counsel.
As a global business, we align with trade associations and organizations related to our business which may, at their own 
discretion and under their own leadership, participate in the political process, including working to influence decisions that 
could benefit our company, our industry and related business.
Gentherm is a member of the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), Original Equipment Suppliers Association (OESA), 
Human Resources Professionals Association (HRPA) and other similar industry groups. Our association with these industry 
groups generally include standard membership fees, with annual fees of approximately $50,000 total.
Fleet Vehicles: Gentherm does not maintain a traditional vehicle fleet. We do, however , maintain a small number of 
company-owned vehicles designated for sporadic, non-specific employee use (“pool vehicles”). While this number may 
fluctuate based on expiring leases and other criteria, we estimate the average number is approximately 20 vehicles,  
operated at an average of 10,000 miles or less per year .  Based on average CO 2 emissions for a vehicle, the total output would 
represent a de minimus amount to our total GHG emissions (less than 0.3%) and is therefore excluded from our detailed 
GHG tracking process.
Material and Chemical Management: Gentherm works to ensure that all of our manufactured goods align with all  
 applicable regulations around the use or inclusion of controlled chemicals and materials. These efforts include  
utilization of the IMDS (International Material Data System), and monitoring of products and substances versus  
regulations such as REACH.
Hazardous Waste Disposal Methodologies: In 2021, Gentherm’s hazardous waste was approximately 0.5% of all solid  
waste generated (39 metric tons). Gentherm’s hazardous waste types vary by location but are generally comprised of waste 
oil and related products used in lubrication and equipment maintenance, activated carbon scrap, scrap glues and adhesives, 
and non-production related items such as light bulbs and non-industrial batteries. Our methods of disposal vary from region 
to region in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and are based on substance, but may include incineration, 
physical-chemical treatment, or other appropriate disposal methods. Disposal methods may include engaging services from 
appropriately qualified and licensed third-party service providers in the local region.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS BY REGION (2021)
Note: Prior year GHG emissions numbers are updated to reflect adjustments compared to data reported in Gentherm’s prior sustainability reports based on updated 
data collection and calculation methodologies, including movement from CO 2 to a CO 2e calculation. While prior and present methods are both based on standard 
GHG Protocol methodologies, the updated CO 2e method considers the impact of other emissions as well, converting all data to a CO 2 equivalency. Technology to the next degree™ 47 48
www.gentherm.comSASB CONTENT INDEX
Energy Management: TR-AP-130a. 1T otal amount of energy  
consumed; purchased & on-siteAdding all energy sources, including purchased electricity & steam (Scope 2), as well 
as energy consumed on site including natural gas, heating oil, and similar (Scope 1): 
T otal energy consumption calculated at 204,459 GJ.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric DetailsSASB Code Disclosure Summary 2021 Disclosure and Response References
Energy Management: TR-AP-130a. 1Percentage of all electricity 
consumed that is provide from 
local electrical gridAs noted in the Environmental metrics of the report, other than de minimus / pilot 
projects around solar energy, 100% of Gentherm’s electricity is provided from the 
electrical grid.Planet Section,  
Planet Metrics
Energy Management: TR-AP-130a. 1Percentage of all electricity 
consumed that is generated 
from renewable resourcesAs noted in the Environmental metrics of the report, approximately 12% of all elec-
tricity consumed is generated from renewable sources. Considering only at sites that 
are able to ascertain the generation sources of their purchased electricity, those sites 
average 21.0% from renewable sources.Planet Section, Planet Metrics
Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Waste Management: TR-AP-150a. 1T otal amount of waste from 
manufacturingT otal waste from Gentherm sites totals 7 ,236 Metric T ons, with effectively 100% of that 
waste produced at manufacturing / R&D sites.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Waste Management: TR-AP-150a. 1Percentage of total waste that 
is hazardousHazardous waste represents 0.54% of all waste produced in 2021.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Waste Management: TR-AP-150a. 1Percentage of total waste that 
is recycled40.3% of all waste produced was sent to recycling facilities / operations in 2021.Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Product Safety: TR-AP-250a. 1Number of product recalls 
issuedIn 2021, Gentherm did not have a single recall campaign item that was noted by  
NHTSA as part of their standard monthly recall reports.Not Applicable
Product Safety: TR-AP-250a. 1 T otal units recalledIn 2021, Gentherm did not have a single recall campaign item that was noted by  
NHTSA as part of their standard monthly recall reports.Not Applicable
Design for Fuel Efficiency: TR-AP-410a. 1Percent of total revenue from 
products designed to increase 
fuel efficiency and / or reduce 
emissions$463.4 million USD revenue (44.3% of total) including Climate Control Seating and 
Battery Performance Solutions (per studies cited in Product section).Our T echnologies
Materials Sourcing: TR-AP-440a. 1Description of the management 
of risks associated with the use 
of crucial materialsSee Human Rights section and our Conflict Minerals process.People Section,  Human Rights
People Section, Conflict 
Minerals
Competitive Behavior: TR-AP-520a. 1T otal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with 
anti-competitive behavior 
regulations$0; Gentherm did not incur financial costs in 2021 as a result of legal proceedings 
related to anticompetitive behavior .Not ApplicableMaterials Efficiency: TR-AP-440b. 1Percentage of products sold 
that are recyclableDuring 2021 we recognized growing interest from our stakeholders regarding product 
input materials and product end-of-life disposition. While we have made efforts to 
utilize environmentally friendly inputs and to consider end-of-life disposition, we 
view this as an emerging opportunity for Gentherm, and our Sustainability team, 
including our ESG Steering Committee, is reviewing the situation. We will continue to 
examine the data, and strive to evolve our approach to input materials and end-of-life 
disposition. We are optimistic that future actions will work toward further reducing the 
environmental impact of our products.Not Applicable
Materials Efficiency: TR-AP-440b.2Percentage of input materials 
from recycled or remanufac-
tured contentNot ApplicableUNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS TRACKING
In 2015, the United Nations introduced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), a series of 17 goals designed to be the  
blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. As Gentherm continues to enhance and grow our sustainability, 
we look to align our actions with these global goals.
Ensure healthy lives 
and promote well-be -
ing for all at all ages.We are dedicated to providing a safe work place for our employees  
and all visitors to our locations. Employee engagement activities 
include a focus on employee health and wellness, especially as related 
to COVID-19. Gentherm Medical provides innovative equipment 
and supplies that help improve patient outcome and contribute to 
improved well-being.• Employee health activities
• Gentherm Medical equipment  
and mission
• Focus on safety and continuous  
improvement
• Vision Zero Safety Process• People, Engaged Workforce
• Planet, Our T echnologies
• People, Safety - Vision Zero
Ensure inclusive and 
equitable quality ed-
ucation and promote 
lifelong learning 
opportunities for all.We believe in the importance of education, training, and continued 
growth for both our employees and those outside of our organization.  
Our internal programs offer career training, mentor / mentee relation-
ships, and career planning and feedback. We also host internship and 
co-op programs, offering a chance for individuals to experience our 
company and potential career paths. We also believe in foundational  
education, offering programs for employees to complete their high 
school education.• Internal trainings and career develop -
ment training
• Mentorship program
• High school graduation programs and 
support• People, Career Development
• People, Women’s Network
• Places, Introduction
Promote sustained, 
inclusive and sus -
tainable economic 
growth, full and  
productive employ-
ment and decent  
work for all.We believe in the importance of diversity, equity, and inclusion across 
all facets of our business and all locations in which we do business.  
Through our Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Council we look to raise 
awareness and work toward equality.• Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Council
• Gentherm Global Human Rights Policy• People, DE+I
• People, Human Rights
Ensure availability 
and sustainable man-
agement of water and 
sanitation for all.We believe in the importance of water conservation and sustainability 
and make dedicated efforts to improve our water usage. In 2020, we 
set a target to improve our water usage versus our revenue and have 
achieved that target in the first two years.• Water Usage Improvement Target
• Water Usage Metrics
• Water Reduction Projects• Planet, Metrics
• Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
• Planet, Making a Difference
Ensure access to 
affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and mod-
ern energy for all.We strive to expand our use of renewable and clean energy, through 
selections of vendors, or through voluntary programs to purchase 
increased levels of renewable energy. We also have undertaken 
pilot programs related to solar power at multiple locations. In 2021, 
12.0% (5,744 MWH) of our total electricity was noted as coming from 
renewable resources, with that rate rising to 21% when looking only 
at sites that are able to ascertain the source of generation of their grid 
purchased electricity.• Renewable Energy Measurement & 
T racking
• Voluntary Renewable Energy Purchases
• Solar Power Generation and Usage• Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
• Planet, Making a Difference
Sustainable Development Goal Gentherm Alignment and Approach Key Related Activities & Actions 
References 
(Report Location)
Promote sustained, 
inclusive and sus -
tainable economic 
growth, full and 
productive employ-
ment and decent work 
for all.We are committed to providing high quality, fairly compensated em-
ployment at every one of our locations. We believe in treating people 
appropriately, providing career training, and offering opportunities for 
professional advancement. Through our Diversity, Equity + Inclusion 
Council, our Women’s Network, and our Career Development  
programs, we strive to promote productive and decent work and 
opportunity for all.• Gentherm Career Development Programs
• Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council
• Gentherm Women’s Network
• Global Human Rights Policy• People, Career Development
• People, DEI
• People, Women’s Network
• People, Human Rights
Build resilient infra -
structure, promote 
inclusive and sustain-
able industrialization 
and foster innovation.We believe the future of transportation lies in vehicle electrification, 
and that electrifiction is key to sustainable activites aroud transporta -
tion. Gentherm is committed to developing technologies and solutions 
that support and drive this future. Through our technologies such as 
Climate Control Seats, ClimateSense, Cell Connecting Boards, and 
Battery Thermal Management, we are helping support sustainable 
economic growth.• Gentherm T echnologies • Planet, Our T echnologies
Technology to the next degree™ 49 50
www.gentherm.comReduce inequality 
within and among 
countries.We support the rights of all people around the world to be treated 
fairly and equitably. Through our Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Council 
and our Women’s Network, we work to raise awareness and ensure fair 
treatment. Our Global Human Rights Policy clarifies and reinforces 
our stance around the proper treatment of individuals, regardless of 
location or position.• Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Council
• Gentherm Women’s Network
• Global Human Rights Policy• People, DE+I
• People, Women’s Network
• People, Human Rights
Ensure sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns.We believe in sustainable consumption and production of our 
products. Of our five environmental targets, two relate directly to 
measurables related to sustainability around our products, particularly 
manufacturing waste. By reducing our landfill percentage, increasing 
our recycling rates, and reducing our hazardous waste intensity, we can 
positively affect our manufacturing impact.• Environmental Targets, Waste to Landfill 
as a Percent of T otal
• Environmental Targets, Waste to Recy-
cling as Percent of T otal
• Environmental Targets, Hazardous Waste 
Efficiency• Planet, Environmental Metric 
Targets
• Planet, Environmental 
Metrics
• Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Take urgent action 
to combat climate 
change and its  
impacts.We have established a disciplined, detailed Sustainability program, 
with leadership at our Senior Leadership and Board of Director levels.  
This guidance and oversight helps to ensure that we are focused on key 
issues, including climate impact. Our disclosure of Scope 1 and Scope 
2 GHG emissions, as well as our Environmental Target around reducing 
Scope 2 emissions through improved resource efficiency demonstrate 
a clear committment to make progress in this area.• Sustainability Approach, Leadership 
Updates
• Environmental Targets, Scope 2 Emis -
sions Efficiency
• Environmental Metrics, Scope 2 GHG 
Emissions• Sustainability Approach, 
Leadership Updates
• Planet, Environmental Metric 
Targets
• Planet, Environmental 
Metrics
• Appendix, Environmental 
Metric Details
Sustainable Development Goal Gentherm Alignment and Approach Key Related Activities & Actions 
References 
(Report Location)Sustainable Development Goals continued FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND DISCLAIMERS
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our goals, beliefs, plans and expectations about 
our prospects for the future and other future events. Such statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking termi-
nology such as “anticipates, ” “appears, ” “believes, ”“continues, ” “could, ” “designed, ” “effect, ” “estimates, ” “evaluates, ” “expects, ” 
“forecasts, ” “goal, ” “initiative, ” “intends, ” “may, ” “objective, ” “outlook, ” “plans, ” “potential, ” “priorities, ” “project, ” “pursue, ” “seek, ” 
“should, ” “target, ” “when, ” “will, ” “would, ” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of such terms. 
The forward-looking statements included in this document, including our targets and goals, are made as of the date hereof or 
as of the date specified and are based on management’s reasonable expectations and beliefs. Such statements are subject to 
a number of assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond 
our control, which could cause actual results to differ from that described in the forward looking statements. Such risks and 
uncertainties include the risks noted in reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk 
Factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, as well as additional factors we 
may describe from time to time in other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, 
we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our ex -
pectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This report describes topics that we consider to be important to stakeholders when evaluating sustainability matters at Gen-
therm. The inclusion of information in this report is not an indication that such information is material as defined under the U.S. 
federal securities laws and the applicable regulations thereunder . No part of this report or our sustainability website disclosure 
constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in Gentherm or any other entity and must not 
be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
Statements regarding our policies, guidelines or goals are aspirational in nature. They are not promised to be delivered nor 
guaranteed for achievement. We cannot guaranty that our directors, officers employees and suppliers follow the requirements 
of our codes, policies and guidelines in all circumstances. Uncertainties are inherent in collecting data from a wide range of 
facilities and operations in a global company. Standards of measurement and methods of calculating sustainability data are de -
veloping and numbers reported (other than audited financial data) are based on company calculations and good faith estimates 
and have not been externally assured.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Gentherm”, “the Company”, “we”, “our” and “us” in this report refer to Gentherm 
Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. The content of this report generally covers subject matter for the 2021 calendar 
year unless otherwise noted and is limited to operations owned and/or operated by Gentherm. For some performance indica -
tors, prior year data is provided to allow for annual comparisons.  
This report may contain public information or links to websites owned and operated by third parties. When clicking on third-par -
ty links, users will leave our website. These links are provided for additional information and convenience only. Gentherm is not 
responsible for such public information, third-party websites or their content and is not incorporating by reference, endorsing, 
approving or adopting any information posted on any third-party website.  No representation, warranty, or undertaking is made 
by Gentherm as to the accuracy, reasonableness, or completeness of public information or information contained on third-party 
websites.EUROPE
Odelzhausen, Germany 
European Headquarters Engineering,  
Sales & Support
Stuttgart, Germany 
Engineering, Manufacturing & 
Distribution, Sales & Support
West Midlands, UK 
Sales & Support
Pilisszentiván, Hungary 
Engineering, Manufacturing & 
Distribution, Sales & Support
Vynohradiv, Ukraine 
Manufacturing
Prilep, North Macedonia 
Manufacturing
Ta’Xbiex, Malta 
Sales & SupportNORTH AMERICA
HQ - Northville, MI 
Engineering, Sales & Support
Farmington Hills, MI 
Engineering
Cincinnati, OH 
Engineering, Manufacturing &  
Distribution, Sales & Support
Del Rio, TX 
Distribution, Sales & Support
Acuña, Mexico 
Engineering & Manufacturing 
Celaya, Mexico 
Engineering & Manufacturing ASIA
Shanghai, China 
Asia Pacific Headquarters 
Engineering, Sales & Support
Langfang, China 
Engineering, Manufacturing & 
Distribution, Sales & Support
Shenzhen, China 
Manufacturing & Distribution
Seoul, South Korea 
Sales & Support
Ulsan, South Korea 
Distribution, Sales & Support
Asan, South Korea
Distribution, Sales & Support
Nagoya, Japan 
Sales & Support
T okyo, Japan 
Sales & Support
Hiroshima, Japan 
Sales & Support
Ha Nam, Vietnam 
Manufacturing
T echnology to the next degree™
HEADQUARTERS          21680 Haggerty Road | Northville, MI, USA 48167          (248) 504.0500          www.gentherm.com