2021  Environmental, Social 
and Governance ReportProgress  
Through  
People
2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION 1
2021 in Focus 1
Leadership Message 2
Business Model  3
UN Global Compact 
& SDG Mapping 4
Baselines & Benchmarks 7
ENVIRONMENTAL 9
2021 in Focus  9
Message From Chief Strategy 
and Sustainability Officer10
Key Sustainability Drivers 11
Recyclability 15
Recycled Content 21
Climate Change Mitigation 29
Partnerships 40CONCLUSION 62
Looking Ahead  62
About This Report  63
Sources  64
GRI Reporting Appendix 66SOCIAL 41
2021 in Focus 41
Message From Executive 
VP of Human Resources 42
Core Values  43
Social Goals 44
Community Outreach  45
Health & Safety  48
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 51
GOVERNANCE 55
2021 in Focus 55
Message From Director 
of Internal Audit 56
Governance Leaders  57
Ethics & Compliance 58
Data Security & Privacy 60
2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 1 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
2021 In FocusThis year, we found new ways to support our people and our planet. We 
made progress on many of our goals, refining our approach and renewing our 
commitment to true environmental, social and ethical responsibility. In each of 
these areas, our results were validated by outside organizations, and it’s our 
honor to champion the ongoing efforts of our team as we move forward. 
of Graham work 
locations participated in 
employee-led community 
service activities100%
Graham Engagement 
Action Teams (GREATs) 
meet monthly60SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
2 Active Employee Resource Groups
65 Young 
Professionals 
members 46 Women 
in Business & 
Allies members5,929 pounds of trash 
removed  from our 
communities during 
Cleanup Day eventsGreen Procurement 
Team  launched
Patrick McNabb 
named as our first 
vice president of 
cybersecurity Better Projects Award from DOE 
11% reduction in annual electricity 
usage at Florence, KY, plant ENVIRONMENTAL
life-cycle assessments 
completed50+2.5 million pounds  
of ocean-bound 
plastic processed
reduction in water 
usage since 201814%2 plants 
received  
ISCC Plus 
certification
reduction in GHG 
emissions since 2020 1%
overall  
PCR use7%90.4%  by U.S. 
standards
98% by Ellen 
MacArthur 
Foundation 
standardsRecyclability 
of Graham 
Products2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 2 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
Message From Robert Pyle 
I joined Graham Packaging as president 
and chief executive officer after working 
30 years in the global automotive 
industry. While the automotive and 
packaging industries may seem starkly 
different at first glance, they have one 
very important thing in common: a deep 
commitment to sustainability. Thus, I 
understand and support the need for 
proactive strategies that enable us to 
not only protect the environment and 
mitigate climate change, but also to 
become a more competitive business. 
As a leader, my top priority is integrity. It 
is imperative that we do things the right 
way and be honest and transparent in our 
reporting. Sustainability is data-driven, 
and we must hold ourselves accountable 
to the goals we’ve set. Another key priority 
is our customers. We place incredible 
importance on their success, and we 
constantly strive to remain a leader in the production of innovative, sustainable 
packaging that will help them meet 
their goals. For many of our customers, 
it is very difficult, if not impossible, for 
them to achieve their sustainability 
goals without us achieving ours. 
At Graham, we are also dedicated 
to taking care of our people. In a 
manufacturing environment like ours, 
it’s critical that we make sure folks go 
home in at least as good condition as 
when they came to work. This can be 
especially challenging in the midst of a 
global pandemic, but we’re well-equipped 
to adapt to changing requirements. 
We’ve also worked to create a culture 
that truly values being “people creating 
a better tomorrow.” We want to have 
the most knowledgeable and best-
trained people in the industry, employees 
who want a career where they can 
grow and make a real difference. Above all, I believe that we must work 
together for change. How our company 
performs as a whole is more important 
than any one plant, any one business unit, 
any one individual. We’re a team — one 
Graham, one family. We have the power 
to help preserve this beautiful planet, 
and not only that, but we have the choice 
every day to do the right thing for our 
customers, employees, shareholders and 
the communities in which we operate. 
Robert Pyle  
President and Chief Executive Officer
“How our company performs as a whole is more 
important than any one plant, any one business unit, any 
one individual. We’re a team — one Graham, one family.” 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 3 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
4,500+  employees 
60+  global facilities 
9 countries
Graham Recycling Company 
Robust supplier policies 
Public commitments to sustainability initiatives
Live Design studio 
50 R&D professionals 
Investments in recycling and 
manufacturing tech
Global customer base 
Diverse suppliers 
14 sustainability partners
60+ manufacturing plants 
1 in 3 plants co-located with customer facilities 
Virgin, ocean-bound, advanced and 
mechanically recycled resin
111 Employee Resource Group members 
60 Graham Engagement Action Teams30%  female executive leadership
Outreach programs for underemployed populations
Top ESG rating from Sustainalytics 
ISCC Plus-certified facilities
1% reduction in GHG emissions since 2020   
Millions of pounds of ocean-bound 
and recycled plastic reused
Access to ~900  patents
40+ industry awards for innovation 
50+ life-cycle assessments
Commitment to customers’ sustainability goals 
Industry advisor for legislators and suppliers 
Signatory of the UN Global Compact
7% PCR use across all products 
5 different manufacturing processes 
1,691  average days without recordable injury
100% of locations participated in 
community engagement activities  
12 worldwide locations participated 
in National Cleanup Day 
114+  charitable giving initiativesOur Business Model
OUR RESOURCES OUR BUSINESS OUR VALUE
People
Planet
Innovation
Partnership
Operation
CommunityOUR FOCUS
Graham is a leader in the 
production of innovative, 
sustainable plastic 
packaging solutions.  
STRATEGIC PILLARS
• We are customer centric. 
• Innovation drives us. 
• We are building a 
sustainable future.
• Our people are our greatest 
competitive advantage. 
• We are One Graham.
We serve the industrial, 
beverage, food, home 
care, dairy, health food 
& nutrition markets. 
 
We have a responsibility 
to work and grow in an 
environmentally, socially and 
ethically sustainable way.
2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 4 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
We continued our relationship with the UN Global Compact in 2021, reporting our 
progress and driving for excellence in all areas of our commitment. This partnership 
has deepened our understanding of ESG initiatives so we can be better stewards of 
responsible operations in our strategies, culture and day-to-day operations. 
HUMAN RIGHTS — PRINCIPLES 1 & 2 
From ethical sourcing to safe working 
conditions, we strive to create an 
environment that prioritizes health and 
human rights. We train our employees 
on how to recognize and respond to 
unsafe behaviors, and we encourage 
healthy lifestyles among our teams. 
Additionally, we’re committed to giving 
back to our communities using our time, 
talent and resources. We’ve donated 
thousands of items and made monetary 
donations to causes that are important 
to our employees, and we’ve hosted 
global volunteering events to clean 
up local communities. When it comes 
to production, we make every effort 
to eliminate risks that could threaten 
human life during the manufacture, 
use or disposal of our products. LABOUR — PRINCIPLES 3-6 
We’ve established policies and procedures 
that safeguard the treatment of all 
current and potential employees. First, 
we continue to take steps to ensure we 
aren’t participating in any form of forced 
or bonded labor, and we comply with 
all applicable minimum wage standards 
in the regions where we operate. We 
hold our suppliers to the same high 
standards we set for ourselves, monitoring 
their labor practices and requiring that 
they comply with our Supplier Quality 
Manual and Code of Ethics Policy.  
Our internal teams also receive 
training on an annual basis that covers 
nondiscriminatory recruiting practices 
and promoting diversity in the workforce. 
Through active Employee Resource 
Groups and Graham Engagement Action 
Teams, we work to keep our employees 
engaged and increase participation 
in leadership and development from 
historically underrepresented groups. UN Global Compact 
In 2020, we joined the 
UN Global Compact, 
the largest corporate 
sustainability initiative 
in the world. The 
Compact establishes 
10 universal 
principles designed 
to help guide 
each participating 
company’s value 
system. Looked at 
holistically, these 
principles promote 
responsible corporate 
policies and business 
operations across the 
value chain that, if 
followed, will lead to 
a more sustainable, 
ethical future.2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 5 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
ENVIRONMENT — PRINCIPLES 7-9  
We’ve committed to ambitious 
sustainability goals that span from 
increasing the recyclability of our products 
to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. 
In recent years, we’ve formed strong 
partnerships with many forward-thinking 
organizations that share our commitment 
to environmental responsibility. These 
partners range from industry and trade 
associations, like The Recycling Partnership 
and The Association of Plastic Recyclers, 
to goal-oriented initiatives that include 
Operation Clean Sweep, Holy Grail 2.0 
and the EPA’s SmartWay program. 
We also work to quantify the 
environmental impact of our 
products by completing life-cycle 
assessments. These assessments, along 
with supplier screenings for proper 
environmental management, are just 
two ways we’re looking beyond our 
operations to improve sustainability 
at every level of the supply chain. ANTI-CORRUPTION — PRINCIPLE 10  
We’ve recently updated several 
of our anti-corruption policies to 
provide stricter requirements to our 
employees. We want to ensure that 
we comply with all applicable anti-
corruption laws while doing business 
both domestically and internationally, 
so we continuously assess our risks and 
train employees accordingly. Likewise, 
we regularly evaluate our suppliers and 
vendors for possible violations of anti-
corruption policies and similar laws.
2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 6 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
The UN Global Compact launched a 
three-year strategy in January of 2021 
encouraging businesses to set and 
meet bold sustainability targets. One 
of the main focuses of this initiative are 
the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), which the UN Global Compact 
established in 2015. The goals set a 
vision for a sustainable, ethical world, 
and businesses are called upon to do 
their part in contributing to the SDGs. 
At Graham, we’ve identified seven SDGs 
that align directly with our business 
model and objectives. These SDGs 
are represented on relevant pages 
throughout this report to show how we’re 
implementing strategies to achieve 
the transformational change set forth 
in the UN Global Compact’s vision.Sustainable Development Goals 
Our products protect 
food, reduce breakage 
and extend shelf life, 
helping to prevent 
food loss and waste.
Our teams receive 
equal opportunities 
regardless of race, 
age, gender, sexuality, 
ethnicity or disability.Our facilities prioritize 
safe working conditions, 
continuous education, 
supplier compliance 
and human rights. 
Our organization is 
committed to creating 
a circular economy 
and increasing 
operational efficiency. 
Our facilities actively 
work to reduce GHG 
emissions and energy 
usage to lessen our 
climate impacts. Our company sources ocean-
bound plastic for use in our 
products and has controls 
in place to prevent plastics 
from entering our waterways. 
Our partnerships are 
based on working toward 
common goals and 
include trade associations, 
environmental initiatives, 
policymakers and brands. 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 7 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
Setting Clear Expectations 
We believe it’s necessary 
to be transparent about 
our environmental, social 
and governance goals. 
When we choose to act 
responsibly — as a company 
and as individuals — we 
contribute to a healthier, 
more inclusive world. 
We’ve clearly outlined our 
expectations for 2022 
and beyond, looking 
for opportunities to 
partner with internal and 
external stakeholders 
in ways that will move 
our industry forward.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Develop science-based targets 
for emissions reductions in 2022  Work toward ISCC certifications  
for advanced recycled material 
at more Graham facilities 
Deepen our partnerships  with trade associations, policymakers and 
initiatives-based organizations to work together toward a circular economy
Continue to reduce waste generation, water consumption 
and fuel consumption across our operations30%
reduction in GHG emissions by 
2030 from a 2020 baseline 
25%
energy intensity reduction by 
2028 from a 2018 baseline20%
average PCR use, including ocean-bound 
PCR, across all Graham products by 2025 
recyclable, reusable or 
compostable packaging by 2025* 100%
*Based on Ellen MacArthur Foundation standards, per our signing of the Global Plastics Commitment.2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT 8 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
100%
70%of global facilities will participate 
in at least one employee-led 
community support activity
of Graham facilities will engage 
in more than one employee-led 
community support activity Continue outreach programs  for hiring 
from diverse populations, including military 
veterans and people with disabilities 
Continue programs, such as our 
student debt loan repayment initiative, 
that attract high-potential talent  
Roll out our refreshed onboarding 
program  to all our U.S. plants Expand our ability to assess business 
risk level and plan risk mitigation 
strategies in 2022 by establishing board-
level committees, including groups for 
audit, compensation and disclosure 
Continue and update training around 
policies for fraud, General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) and 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) Implement an upgraded 
Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM)  system 
Implement our new 
cybersecurity training program 
Continue to build out our 
NIST cybersecurity framework Build on the robust diversity, equity 
and inclusion advancements  we 
made in 2021, including launch of 
our internal Diversity Council and our 
updated DE&I data collection tools  Create a positive employee experience 
that makes us an employer of choice 
and retains valuable talent 
Attract and develop  
people-centric leadership 2021 in Focus
Environmental
To conserve resources, protect natural spaces and mitigate 
climate change, we must work together to find creative 
solutions backed by science. That’s why we’ve engaged 
suppliers, customers, partners and certification bodies to 
collaborate with us on building a more sustainable future. 
Two plants became 
ISCC Plus Certified 
reduction in water 
usage since 2018 14%reduction in GHG 
emissions since 2020 1%
reduction in energy 
intensity since 20183%Graham awarded a Better Project Award 
by the U.S. Department of Energy 
Richa Desai joined the team 
as director of sustainability recyclable 
products 90.4%Tracee Auld , chief strategy and 
sustainability officer, named a finalist in 
the World Sustainability Leader AwardsPCR use across all 
Graham products7%10 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Message From Tracee Auld
“We truly want to be people creating a better 
tomorrow. That idea is our North Star, and it 
intentionally ties into everything we do.” In recent years, companies like ours have 
turned inward to evaluate how their 
operations impact the environment. 
But the year 2021 marked a shift in that 
mindset. It’s no longer enough to be 
perceived as a sustainable company. Nor 
is it enough to set general benchmarks 
based only on internal observations. 
Graham Packaging is leading the way 
by asking, “What does our industry need 
to do to truly  make a difference?” And 
to answer that question, we’re updating 
the way we’ll measure our progress by 
exploring science-based targets. These 
will help us reduce our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and show how we 
compare to others in our industry in 2022 
and beyond. Similarly, we’re poised to 
meet new state-level plastics legislation 
head-on by offering existing solutions 
that comply with the most stringent 
recycling and post-consumer recycled 
(PCR) regulations of today and tomorrow.  We also recognize the need for 
transparency, legitimacy and traceability 
in the plastics we use. In 2021, two of 
our facilities received ISCC certifications, 
which verify our ability to trace advanced 
recycled materials as they move through 
the supply chain. With plans for additional 
certifications in 2022, this initiative 
positions us to continue expanding 
our use of PCR material, thereby 
further reducing our GHG emissions. 
Additionally, data has become increasingly 
important as our climate goals matured. 
We’re putting systems in place that allow 
us to conduct life-cycle assessments 
(LCAs) more easily, giving our customers 
insights into the impact of their packaging 
from manufacturing through shipping 
and end-of-life disposal. These same 
systems will enable us to gather the 
data we need to accurately set, track 
and report on our key environmental 
priorities as the regulations impacting 
our clients become more stringent. As we move into 2022, our industry 
will continue its shift toward data 
transparency and third-party validation. 
Yet, for our organization, this is simply 
an evolution of our standard process. 
Making choices that protect our peers, our 
communities and our planet has always 
been a key pillar of Graham Packaging, 
and we’re ready to lead the industry in our 
pursuit of a shared, sustainable future.
Tracee Auld  
Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer11 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
3 Key Sustainability Drivers 
There are three main 
trends driving the need 
for more sustainable 
plastic packaging: 
retailer and brand goals, 
consumer expectations 
and legislation. We will 
continue to work with 
our customers to create 
unique sustainable 
packaging solutions that 
meet these evolving 
market expectations.  1. RETAILER & BRAND GOALS
Large brands and retailers have set aggressive sustainable packaging goals 
for the future. According to a McKinsey report  that evaluated the top 100 
fast-moving consumer goods companies in terms of revenue, nearly all have 
committed to improving the sustainability of their packaging in coming 
years. Specifically, they plan to focus on initiatives like recyclability, recycled 
content, lightweighting and systemic changes to how packaging is used.
When we asked customers and large retailers we work with about their goals, we 
received largely the same response. They most commonly noted their desire to:
• Offer packaging that’s 100% recyclable, reusable or compostable 
• Use less virgin plastic and incorporate more PCR and/or bio-resin 
• Reduce their GHG emissions to net zero or a science-based target 
Graham Packaging is well-positioned to help brands and retailers meet these 
goals, whether that means lightweighting an existing package or completely 
redesigning a container to meet today’s expectations. In the end, these changes 
not only help brands meet their environmental goals, but they also allow 
them to satisfy consumers’ expectations for more sustainable packaging.12 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
2. CONSUMER EXPECTATIONS 
In recent years, consumers have come to expect the companies they buy 
from to be good stewards of the environment and their communities. This is 
especially true of younger generations, with as many as 81% of millennials 
expecting companies to publicly commit to good corporate citizenship. 
This mindset shift extends to the packaging industry. While factors like price, 
quality and brand  still rank higher in importance to some consumers, many 
have become more environmentally conscious. These consumers are calling for 
more recyclable packaging options, as well as the incorporation of more recycled 
material into every package they purchase. Up to 70% of consumers even 
said that they were willing to pay more for sustainably packaged goods. 
How much more? According to a study by First Insight , Generation Z consumers — the 
youngest generation with buying power in the U.S. — would shell out an additional 
10% on top of regular prices to ensure they’re purchasing sustainable goods. With 
that in mind, it’s clear that brands will need to communicate their commitment to 
sustainability if they want to continue to appeal to the next generation of consumers.
*U.S. consumer statistics according to a 2020 McKinsey study .The Role of Life-Cycle 
Assessments (LCAs)
Consumers and retailers want to 
understand the impact of plastic 
containers over their full life cycle. 
They also want to see how plastic 
packaging compares to other forms of 
packaging, like glass and aluminum. 
By conducting LCAs, we can show 
that plastic has a much lower 
environmental impact than other 
forms of packaging when used and 
disposed of properly. LCAs also show 
us that not all plastics are the same. 
PET (polyethylene terephthalate) and 
HDPE (high-density polyethylene), for 
example, have much lower impacts 
over their life cycle because they are 
lightweight and more easily recyclable. 
LCAEnd of Life
Processing
Use
DistributionResources
ManufacturingU.S. Consumer Preferences for Sustainable Packaging 
were willing to pay more for 
sustainably packaged goods >60%
would buy more sustainably 
packaged products if they were 
clearly labeled and more available ~36%13 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
3. LEGISLATION  
Legislative action is a key driver of sustainability in the U.S. and globally, and the most common types of sustainable 
packaging laws are PCR laws, extended producer responsibility (EPR) laws and labeling laws. In the U.S., legislation 
has only been passed at the state level, which means requirements vary widely by state, with the most stringent 
requirements often setting the benchmark for how large brands package and label their products. 
California
The first state to require the use of PCR; law applies 
to most plastic beverage containers. Requires 
15% by 2022, 25% by 2025 and 50% by 2030.
Washington
Requires plastic bottles to average ~15% 
PCR by 2023, which gradually increases to 
50% across all categories by 2036. Maine
First state to pass an EPR law. Producers must pay 
into a fund. Amounts vary based on the material 
amount and recyclability of their product packaging. 
Oregon
Producers must pay into a fund in varying 
amounts based on recyclability, use of PCR  
and life-cycle impact of packaging materials. New Jersey
Requires increasing PCR percentages (up to 50%) in 
plastic beverage containers and rigid plastic containers, 
including food and others, over the next 20+ years. PCR LAWS
PCR laws typically set a minimum percentage of PCR 
material that must be incorporated into each package. 
These laws have expanded in recent years to apply to 
beverage containers, rigid plastic containers, plastic trash 
bags and more. California, Washington and New Jersey 
have all recently passed PCR laws with varying requirements. EPR LAWS
EPR laws hold producers — rather than consumers — 
accountable for the disposal of their products. These 
programs already exist for products like paint and 
mattresses, and with the rising cost of waste systems, 
many legislators feel that extending EPR programs  to 
packaging will alleviate financial pressures on municipal 
governments. EPR laws will allocate the true cost of the 
waste system to packaging decision-makers, effectively 
working to improve recycling and waste programs while 
encouraging the redesign of packaging for recyclability.14 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS LAWS
First introduced in California, environmental claims laws look 
to set a statewide standard for recyclability and prevent 
brands from using the chasing arrows symbol on packaging 
that isn’t considered recyclable under the established 
criteria. They also prohibit any kind of untruthful or 
misleading messaging on packaging, such as brands using 
phrases like “please recycle” or “recycle-ready,” on products 
that don’t meet recyclability criteria.   
Previously, brands could place resin identification codes 
within a chasing arrow symbol regardless of the product’s 
recyclability. This will no longer be allowed unless the rigid 
plastic bottle or container is considered recyclable under 
California standards. Brands can, however, continue to place 
the resin identification code into a solid equilateral triangle. 
They can also continue to use the chasing arrow symbol on 
nonrecyclable goods as long as it’s clearly marked with a 
line at a 45-degree angle over the symbol. 
It’s important to note that some consumer goods are 
exempt from this law, including products that are required 
by any federal or California law to display the chasing 
arrows symbol. All containers subject to the California 
Beverage Container Recycling and Litter Reduction Act 
(CRV) fall under this exemption.ENVIRONMENTAL 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
2021 in Focus
Recyclability
Globally, polypropylene and colored PET are considered recyclable, so it’s included in our calculations under the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s 
standards. In the U.S., polypropylene — along with problem plastics like black plastics and PVC — are considered non-recyclable, which reduces our 
recyclability percentage. We monitor all definitions of recyclability to create an accurate picture of how we measure up to varying standards. 
Recyclability100%
98%
90.4%Target By 2025
Progress Per Ellen MacArthur Standards
Progress Per U.S. Standards16 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
TYPES OF  
PLASTICESTIMATED MATERIAL  
GENERATION PER SINGLE-FAMILY 
HOUSEHOLD (TONNAGE)U.S. 
RECYCLING 
RATE% OF PCR 
USED BY 
GRAHAM 
GLOBALLY
#1 Polyethylene 
Terephthalate (PET)3,002,202 26.6% 4%
#2 High-Density 
Polyethylene (HDPE)1,299,549 30.4% 10%
#5 Polypropylene (PP) 1,670,402* 17% 0%
Defining Recyclability 
Recyclable packaging 
has the potential to help 
create a circular economy 
where valuable resources 
are conserved rather 
than wasted. But globally, 
definitions for recyclability 
vary, which creates 
challenges for brands and 
packaging companies. At 
Graham, we promote the use 
of common, easily recycled 
plastics, like PET and 
HDPE. We also design each 
package with recyclability 
in mind, helping to guide 
our customers toward more 
sustainable solutions.RECYCLABILITY IN THE U.S. 
To be considered recyclable in the U.S., 
plastic packaging must meet three criteria 
according to the Federal Trade Commission 
and the Association of Plastic Recyclers: 
• 60% of the population must have 
access to recycling for the material 
• Recyclers must regularly take, 
process and sell the material 
• The material must be regularly 
recycled into a new product PET, HDPE and PE (polyethylene) film 
are considered recyclable based on this 
definition, and that’s why we strongly 
recommend PET and HDPE containers 
to our customers. By using recyclable 
materials, we enable consumers to 
recycle more easily, which, in turn, 
creates a larger supply of PCR material 
for us to use in new containers.
Contributing 
to the SDGs:
*Includes #3-7 plastic packaging.  
Recycling rates based on the 2018 U.S. National Postconsumer Plastic Bottle Recycling Report and the NAPCOR 2020 PET 
Recycling Report . Material generation rate based on the 2020 State of Curbside Recycling Report by The Recycling Partnership.17 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Factors Affecting Recyclability 
Not all materials are created equal when it comes to recycling. For example, multilayer 
pouches, multilayer cartons and composite cans are not widely considered recyclable. 
But these challenges also extend to plastic. Some plastics are considered problematic 
based on resin type, like polystyrene and PVC, while others only become problematic 
when brands and manufacturers make design choices that limit their recyclability. 
The Association of Plastic Recyclers 
released the APR Design® Guide to help 
package designers meet recyclability 
standards. They identified eight design 
components that can potentially affect 
recyclability. If even one of these criteria is 
categorized as “not recyclable,” the entire 
container is classified as nonrecyclable.
• Resin 
• Barrier 
• Color 
• Size/Shape • Closures 
• Labels 
• Adhesives 
• Attachments For a package to be considered 
recyclable, the Association 
of Plastic Recyclers considers 
the following categories: 
18 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Solutions for Recyclability 
1. REDUCED AND RESPONSIBLE COLORANT USE 
When colorant is reduced or eliminated 
from PET plastic packaging, it decreases 
the chance that the container will end 
up in a landfill. PET may have a tinted or 
hazy look after it’s processed into rPET, 
making it far less attractive than virgin 
resin. This discoloration could be due to 
the introduction of colored PET into a 
clear PET batch or due to the oxygen 
scavengers and clear PET absorbing 
moisture. Overall, demand is much 
lower for colored PET than clear PET. 
Like PET, HDPE plastic is typically easy to 
recycle, but when colorant is added to it, 
it must go through an extra sorting step 
during the recycling process. Black plastics 
are particularly problematic. Generally, 
the color black can’t be detected by 
sortation systems, so it must be sorted by 
hand. Black plastic can also make other 
plastics difficult to recycle and offers very 
little design flexibility once fully processed. 
Thanks to recent advances, however, 
there is now a detectable black colorant 
that’s a more responsible option than 
traditional black colorant. We promote 
the use of this advanced black colorant, 
as well as the reduction or elimination 
of colorant to make recycling easier.    Some situations require the use of colorant 
to safeguard the quality of the food, such 
as in the dairy industry. But even in these 
situations, we’ve found ways to reduce 
the amount of colorant used. With one 
customer, we were able to reduce the 
amount of colorant in their HDPE containers 
by more than 50% while still offering the 
same level of UV and visible light protection. 
This innovative approach increased the 
recyclability of their packaging and 
ensured their product continued to meet 
food safety and shelf-life requirements. 
Reduced colorant use has also become 
increasingly popular with consumers. It 
used to be that products had to stand out 
on retail shelves, often by incorporating 
bright colors into their packaging. 
However, with the growth of online sales 
of consumer-packaged goods in the U.S. 
— a segment that increased $63 billion 
in 2020 compared to 2019  according to 
a Nielsen report — products are no longer 
sitting on shelves next to their competitors. 
Additionally, companies have found 
that consumers associate more muted 
tones  with desirable, environmentally 
conscious products, while bright colors 
imply a less desirable, synthetic product. It’s our goal to create 
packaging solutions that 
not only meet customers’ 
needs but also enable 
easier recycling. That 
effort starts with using 
commonly recycled 
plastics, like PET and 
HDPE, but it extends 
to following the design 
criteria set forth by 
the Association of 
Plastic Recyclers. We’re 
constantly innovating with 
a focus on environmental 
responsibility, and 
we’ve identified three 
opportunities to have 
an even greater positive 
impact on the recyclability 
of our products. 19 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
2. ADVANCED BARRIER TECHNOLOGY 
For sensitive products, barrier technologies 
provide extra protection against oxygen 
exposure, UV or visible light exposure, 
moisture and flavor scalping. They 
have a positive influence on product 
quality and shelf life, and they can also 
lower the overall environmental impact 
of products traditionally packaged 
in glass by reducing breakage and 
fuel consumption during transport. 
Certain barrier technologies have APR 
Critical Guidance Recognition, which 
means they’ve been deemed acceptable 
for recycling by industry standards. Our 
multilayer EVOH polyolefin and SiOx 
coating of PET solutions, for example, 
are used primarily as oxygen and/
or CO2 barriers, and they meet these 
critical guidelines. Additionally, we 
use tested and approved methods for 
all our barriers, including our oxygen 
scavenger for monobarrier containers 
and our advanced barrier technology 
for multilayer PET packages. 
Contributing to the SDGs:20 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
3. REDUCED AND RESPONSIBLE LABEL USE 
Labels contain important product 
information, but they can create recycling 
challenges. When labels aren’t removed 
prior to curbside collection, they may cause 
problems with the sorting equipment at 
the recycling center. For example, an HDPE 
bottle may have a PET label on it, which 
can confuse the sorting machine and 
result in material being sorted incorrectly. 
Similarly, when a label covers too much 
of the bottle, the sensors on the sorting 
machine may only identify the label, 
which causes problems down the line. 
Label material can also affect recyclability. 
Some labels are made from non-recyclable 
material, like PVC, making them impossible 
to recycle even if removed from the 
container. Paper labels disintegrate into pulp, which can gum up the machinery 
and shut down the line until machines are 
cleaned. Some labels can even become 
wrapped around delicate machine parts. 
Additionally, adhesives and glues used to 
attach labels can be hard to remove and 
can contaminate the PCR if processed.  
At Graham, we’re exploring new ways 
of labeling bottles. Sometimes it’s as 
simple as reducing the size of the label, 
but we’ve also considered engraving or 
embossing important information directly 
onto the bottle. This allows decorative 
designs, brand names and logos to 
be incorporated without the use of an 
additional plastic label, an approach 
that reduces a brand’s overall plastic 
use. We’ve even found that this solution can help strengthen the bottle and 
lightweight the finished product, making 
it a clear sustainability success story. 
But what about information that can’t 
be embossed onto the bottle? One 
option is to include that information on 
secondary packaging, such as a box that 
contains multiple bottles. It could also 
be written directly on the bottle using 
a laser. Through our work with the Holy 
Grail 2.0 project, we’ve also explored 
the use of digital watermarks, which 
have the potential to improve recycling 
sorting. Digital watermarks may even 
be used as an interactive label by future 
consumers, allowing them to scan a code 
with their smartphone to view facts and 
nutritional information about the product. 
CARL GAUGHRAN, DIRECTOR OF DEVELOPMENT,  
GRAHAM PACKAGING EUROPE 
Contributing to the Holy Grail 2.0 Project
I lead our participation in the Holy Grail 2.0 project, which works to prove the viability of digital watermarking 
technologies for accurate sorting and, therefore, higher-quality recycling. In 2021, my team expanded its 
exploration of 3D watermark technology, working with key customers to apply it to their packaging for semi-
industrial testing. The result was a 96% detection rate during the sorting process.  
 
Holy Grail 2.0 has validated that digital watermarking allows for better sorting of plastic materials, including 
food-grade versus non-food-grade. Long term, this technology will help converters increase the use of PCR 
in packaging by reducing contamination in the waste stream. Additionally, it will allow brands to understand 
the life cycle of their products and even engage with consumers in new ways through interactive 3D 
(embedded codes in the plastic surface) and 2D (printed coding in labels and sleeves) watermarks.  
ENVIRONMENTAL 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
2021 in Focus
Average 
PCR Use 
across all 
Graham 
productsTarget By 2025
Overall PCR Use 
PET PCR Use
HDPE PCR Use
Recycled Content
20%
7%
4%
10%22 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Sources of Recycled Content 
In a circular economy, plastic will be continually reused. 
This requires effort from everyone in the supply chain — 
consumers must recycle, brands must commit to using 
PCR, and manufacturers must incorporate this valuable 
material into their products. We use several types of 
recycled material at Graham, and we’re continuing to 
find new sources as emerging technologies develop.
MECHANICAL RECYCLING 
Mechanical recycling is a method that’s 
been around for decades, and it’s the most 
prevalent type of recycling in the U.S., 
with 50% of Americans  having access 
to curbside recycling infrastructure. As 
its name suggests, it uses mechanical 
processes like grinding, washing and 
regranulating to transform recycled 
plastic containers into usable resin. 
Mechanical recycling can process premium 
material with low levels of contamination 
from food residue, labels and other foreign 
substances. To be successful, it also 
requires careful sorting of plastic materials 
into separate resin families — PET with 
PET, HDPE with HDPE and so on — which can be challenging when multiple types 
of resin are used on the same container. 
Additionally, plastic material can’t be 
infinitely recycled using this method, 
because mechanical recycling leaves 
a heat history. This means that each 
time it’s processed, its quality degrades. 
Manufacturers can currently produce 
100% PCR containers, but over time, 
this recycling history will make 100% 
mechanical PCR products unsustainable 
when using current technologies. 
When that happens, it will need to be 
used in conjunction with virgin resin 
when formed into new packaging to maintain the highest standards of 
quality. This involves special equipment 
and carefully laid-out manufacturing 
lines, which may result in additional 
expenses for manufacturers who 
use this type of material. 
This is a future problem that will start to 
impact quality PCR but not for several 
years. This issue may be solved by the 
increased use of advanced recycling. 
Contributing to the SDGs:23 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
How Mechanical Recycling Works 
UNLOADING
Consumer 
HDPE & PET 
RecyclingNew  
PelletsSEPARATION OF  
UNWANTED MATERIALSSUPPLYING 
THE LINE
GRINDING
WASHING
MELTING POLYMERS /  
EXTRUDING & PELLETIZINGSORTINGSTORAGE
24 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Mechanical Recycling at Graham 
We recognize mechanical recycling as 
the most widely used recycling method, 
and we work with our customers to 
incorporate mechanically recycled PCR 
into their packages, whether it’s material 
that we source or that we produce at 
the Graham Recycling Company (GRC). 
In the short term, mechanically recycled 
PCR remains the best solution for both 
food-grade and non-food-grade PET, as 
well as non-food-grade HDPE and PP. 
As demand increases due to regulatory 
requirements, consumer expectations 
and brand/retailer commitments, we 
must find ways to increase our supply of 
recycled material. In 2021, we challenged our procurement team to spend 25% 
of their time sourcing recycled and 
green materials. These efforts included 
exploring ways to engage local townships 
and cities to improve collection rates, 
as well as helping municipalities find 
ways to reopen recycling plants that 
closed due to COVID-19, labor shortages 
and supply chain issues. The GRC also 
received a 3rd-party certification that 
verifies the source of our recycled 
content as post-consumer material.  
Externally, we’ve taken a leadership role 
in the rPET Value Chain Consortium, a 
mixed group of retailers, brands and 
manufacturers that’s investigating solutions to the barriers that exist 
within the rPET supply chain. Our 
partnerships with organizations like the 
Association of Plastic Recyclers and The 
Recycling Partnership have remained 
strong, and we’ve helped shape key 
legislation as industry advisors.
KEITH STROHSCHEIN, DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS FOR MATERIALS  
RICHARD WEIST, PLANT MANAGER, GRC  
Optimizing Colored Bale Processing at the Graham Recycling Company 
The Graham Recycling Company switched to lines running only natural material several years ago, but through innovation and effort, we’re exploring 
new approaches to colored material recycling. The technologies we tested this year include the application of a first-ever innovation to mechanical 
PCR recycling, one that allowed us to expand back into colored PCR processing. 
We plan to continue testing this as we move into 2022, and if successful, Graham Recycling Company will be able to provide additional processing 
solutions, meeting the needs of our bottle plant and delivering better value to customers. In a way, it also takes us back to our roots because our 
team will be involved with recycling bottles that Graham originally manufactured. We’re excited at the possibility of returning to the true bottle-to-
bottle process that built the Graham Recycling Company’s legacy. million pounds  
post-industrial material 
processed at all North 
American bottle plants~16.1million pounds  
PCR material  
processed at GRC ~37.8
million pounds  
ocean-bound plastic 
processed at GRC ~2.525 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
ADVANCED RECYCLING
Advanced recycling is a newer technology 
that’s rapidly gaining popularity in our 
industry. This process takes plastic waste 
and transforms it back into its original 
hydrocarbons. From there, the material 
is repolymerized to produce a virginlike 
raw material that can be used to make 
new products, chemicals and fuels. 
Advanced recycling can handle far 
more contamination from mixed plastic 
materials in the waste stream than 
mechanical recycling can because 
contamination is released from this process 
in the form of carbon char. This type of 
material can also be recycled infinitely 
without degradation because it doesn’t 
maintain a heat history, so manufacturers 
can use it at up to 100% without affecting 
product performance or quality. 
Another major difference is how advanced 
recycled material is tracked. When an offtaker buys advanced recycled material 
from a cracker, they receive virginlike 
resin with PCR credits. These credits are 
certified and traceable from feedstock 
to final product by various certification 
bodies. This process also uses a mass 
balance system, a chain of custody 
model that verifies the input and output 
throughout the production cycle. 
When it comes to using advanced recycled 
material in the manufacturing process, 
there are no special considerations. 
Advanced recycling produces a material 
that has the same strength and clarity 
as virgin resin, so it can be incorporated 
on existing manufacturing lines. However, 
this material is often more expensive to 
purchase than mechanically recycled 
PCR and traditional virgin plastic. 26 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
How Advanced Recycling Works 
AR RECYCLERS  
carry out pyrolysis  
or depolymerization.
Turns plastic waste back 
into hydrocarbon form.  
Some char created.
HYDROCARBONS  
become fuel or 
gas, such as diesel, 
tacoil, naptha.
OFFTAKER  
receives single 
pellet with  
PCR credits.
END 
PRODUCT  
made of virgin 
& PCR plastic.
Combined 
with VIRGIN 
OIL/FUEL.
CRACKERS  
create new 
resin.
MONOMERS  
& POLYMER  
contain both 
recycled & virgin 
materials.
OIL/NAPTHA  
is shipped 
to crackers.
CURBSIDE COLLECTION
CARBON 
CHAR 
WASTEHYDROCARBONS
MONOMERPOLYMERPLASTIC 
PELLET
27 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Advanced Recycling at Graham 
In 2021, our Evansville, USA, and 
Aldaia, Spain, locations received their 
International Sustainability and Carbon 
Certificate (ISCC) Plus certifications. With 
this certification, these sites can sell 
customers certified PCR created through 
advanced recycling, which expands 
our PCR portfolio beyond mechanically 
recycled content. This advanced recycled 
material can be substituted for up to 100% 
virgin resin in a container while delivering 
identical performance and helping to 
reduce the packaging’s overall carbon 
footprint. We plan to explore certifications 
for more facilities as we move into 2022. We see advanced recycled material as a 
necessary supplement to mechanically 
recycled PCR, particularly regarding 
rHDPE and rPP. As demand for food-
grade containers that include rHDPE 
and rPP continues to rise, advanced 
recycling can help fill the gap in the 
supply chain by taking previously unusable 
waste material and converting it back 
into virginlike resin. This increases the 
availability of food-grade packaging, 
ensuring food quality and safety. 
In the short-term, advanced and 
mechanical recycling will likely be 
complementary technologies. In the  
MARIE-LO ESCARABAJAL,  
QUALITY MANAGER OF GRAHAM PACKAGING EUROPE  
How Global Teamwork Guarantees the Chain of Custody 
The ISCC Plus project was led by a multidisciplinary and cross-continent team, and it was great to see 
two plants become certified in 2021 with plans for more certifications in upcoming years. ISCC Plus is an 
internationally recognized program that certifies the proper usage of advanced recycled material, verifying 
the traceability management throughout the supply chain.  
Our team of global Graham representatives worked together closely to understand the certification 
requirements and translate them into one system that could be applied to every region. This certification is 
voluntary but recognized to support the claim of advanced recycled material in a transparent and trustful way. 
It shows our customers that we stand by our core values of honoring our commitments and driving for excellence.
long-term, we predict that advanced 
recycling may replace mechanical 
recycling because it allows mixed 
plastic waste streams to yield usable 
food-grade and non-food-grade PCR. 
Additionally, it’s a solution for packages 
that are difficult to recycle and may 
otherwise be thrown in the trash.
“We’re proud to be one of the few rigid 
packaging companies who are ISCC 
Plus certified to use advanced PCR.”
Tracee Auld  
Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer28 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Ocean-bound plastic is material that’s collected from at-risk zones along waterways and coastlines. While this material can be 
integrated into a range of plastic packaging, it requires special considerations for processing. First, this material often includes more 
contaminants than material that comes from curbside recycling programs. Because it’s usually collected outside, it’s been exposed to 
the weather and pests, which can damage the material. 
Also, ocean-bound plastic may come from sources that lack standard equipment. In this case, special pallets and shipping arrangements 
must be made to accommodate abnormal bales. Ocean-bound plastic suppliers must be properly vetted to ensure their product’s 
legitimacy. It’s important to understand and verify the product’s chain of custody and, when possible, to work with suppliers who are 
certified to sell ocean-bound plastic. 
 
OCEAN-BOUND PLASTIC AT GRAHAM 
In 2021, the Graham Recycling Company 
processed 2.5 million pounds of ocean-
bound plastic, and we’ve identified a 
continuous, high-quality stream for 2022. 
We view the reuse of this material as an 
opportunity to create systemwide change 
that keeps plastic material inside the 
circular economy and out of our oceans. 
We work with suppliers who are 
certified to provide large volumes of 
ocean-bound plastic, including food-
grade material, to our manufacturing 
operations. We also provide guidance, 
training and resource sharing to assist 
suppliers who wish to become certified. Additionally, we’ve partnered with 
Operation CleanSweep® (OCS), an 
international program that works to ensure 
the proper handling of all types of plastic 
material. The goal of this program is to 
prevent pellets from making their way 
into the environment, and we’ve signed 
OCS’s Pledge to Prevent Resin Pellet, 
Flake and Powder Loss. At our facilities, 
we’ve implemented strict housekeeping 
policies, including cleaning protocols, 
training programs and operational 
controls. These initiatives help prevent 
spilled pellets from leaving our facilities 
and ending up in our waterways.Ocean-Bound Plastic 
“If we don’t act now, by 2050 there 
could be more plastic than fish in 
the oceans.”
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation 
Contributing to the SDGs:
ENVIRONMENTAL 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
2021 in Focus
Climate Change Mitigation
Reduction 
in GHG 
Emissions30%
1%Target By 2030 from a 2020 baseline
Overall Reduction  since 2020
30 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Message From Richa Desai 
“We must marry business performance and 
sustainability in ways that drive quantifiable results.” Sustainability has always been an integral part of my life. I come 
from a desert region, so I’ve seen water shortages and other 
environmental issues play out firsthand. I’ve always felt that 
humans and the environment are deeply connected, and we 
must do our part to create a safer planet for all living things. 
I started my career in sustainability by designing and 
launching sustainable products and spaces, but eventually 
I made the shift to corporate sustainability. It’s incredibly 
important for companies like Graham Packaging to understand 
how to marry business performance and sustainability in 
ways that drive quantifiable results and help us — and our 
customers — create a better tomorrow. At a time when 
so much about sustainability is ambiguous, our team 
seeks to create clarity and establish a path forward.  
Two of our biggest priorities in 2021 and moving forward are to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and implement operational 
waste strategies. To reduce emissions, we’re working to 
increase PCR in our products by getting our customers ready to process both mechanical and advanced recycled material. 
We’re also increasing our operational energy efficiency and 
sourcing renewable energy whenever possible. When we look 
at waste, we’re really focusing on ensuring that the plastic 
from our facilities doesn’t end up in the environment. 
As we move forward into 2022, we’re continuing to look at 
the full value chain. Traceability of materials, environmental 
sourcing, human rights issues — these are all part of the complex 
plastics supply chain, and we have a responsibility to champion 
initiatives that will help us build a more sustainable future. 
Richa Desai  
Director of Sustainability 31 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Our Climate Change Strategy 
Climate change is a complex issue that affects everyone, and we’re constantly looking for ways to lessen our impact on a 
global scale. Reducing our carbon emissions is an important piece of our strategy, but our efforts to mitigate climate change 
extend far beyond that to include touch points at each stage in a container’s life cycle. From increasing PCR use and designing 
for recyclability to reducing our energy and water consumption, we take a holistic approach to protecting our planet. 
MATERIALS
• Create robust supplier policies 
• Commit to ethical sourcing  
• Source recycled material
DESIGN
• Design for lightweighting 
• Focus on recyclability 
• Allow for the use of PCR 
• Innovate for reuse
MANUFACTURING
• Increase energy efficiency 
• Decrease water consumption
• Promote the capture 
of plastic waste 
• Leverage strategic locationsTRANSPORT
• Decrease secondary packaging 
• Create e-commerce  
friendly solutions 
• Reduce fuel consumption
STORAGE
• Reduce breakage 
• Increase shelf life 
USE
• Reduce food and product waste 
• Provide functional solutions 
DISPOSAL
• Enable recycling 
• Increase curbside recycling 
access and capture
Creating 
a Circular 
EconomySUPPLIER
GRAHAM PACKAGING & BRAND
RETAILER
CONSUMER
 DisposalMaterials
Design
M
anufacturing
Transport
StorageUse32 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Sustainable Operations 
Manufacturing 
represents the 
biggest opportunity 
for us to reduce our 
environmental impact. 
We drive for excellence 
by creating consistency 
in our operations. This 
allows us to measure 
our results, increase 
accountability and refine 
our processes more 
effectively. Sustainable 
manufacturing is 
the goal, and it’s our 
responsibility to set and 
achieve milestones that 
promote a healthier 
global community.WATER CONSUMPTION 
According to the 2021 UN Water Report , nearly two-thirds of the global population 
face severe water scarcity at least one month out of the year. The report goes on to 
say that industry accounts for 12% of all water withdrawals. With these facts in mind, 
it’s clear that we must do our part to conserve water in our manufacturing plants. 
Graham Packaging facilities review their water consumption regularly and make 
efforts to reduce it. Since our 2018 baseline, we’ve seen a 14% decrease in our water 
usage globally. In 2021 alone, we reduced our year-over-year usage by 1%.  
We also have a Responsible Water Use policy in place that provides guidance on how 
plants can reduce their water consumption. Along with helping us limit water use, this 
policy encourages facilities to use the Aqueduct Water Risk Management  tool to 
evaluate plants in water-stressed areas around the world and manage potential risks. 
According to UN Water , an area is said to be “water-stressed” when it withdraws 25% 
or more of its renewable freshwater resources, and in 2021, they identified five out of 
11 regions in the world that fell into this category. With this in mind, companies like ours 
must do our part to reduce our water usage and promote equal access to water. 
Contributing to the SDGs:
WATER  
WITHDRAWALGALLONSYOY  
REDUCTION
2021 346,345,791 -1%
2020 349,921,333 -8%
2019 381,681,873 -5%
2018 401,255,898 Baseline33 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Energy Consumption 
Producing plastic packaging can 
be an energy-intensive process. Our 
reporting focuses on energy intensity, 
a measurement of the energy we 
consume divided by the total pounds 
of product we make. This allows us 
to understand how much energy is 
required to produce a single package. 
We’re committed to lowering our energy 
usage through internal initiatives and 
public commitments, like our partnership 
with the U.S. Department of Energy’s 
Better Plants program. Through this 
program, we’ve pledged to reduce our 
energy intensity by 25% over 10 years.  
GRAHAM PACKAGING, FLORENCE, KENTUCKY   
Creating Award-Winning Energy Savings 
In 2021, our Florence, Kentucky, plant was recognized with a 2021 Better Project Award from the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s Better Plants program. Graham has been part of the Better Plants program since 
2018, when we committed to a 25% energy intensity reduction by 2028, but these annual awards highlight 
above-and-beyond achievements by individual facilities related to industrial energy, water and waste projects. 
Through a series of improvements, our Florence plant saved roughly 7.5 million kWh of energy in 
18 months, the equivalent of an 11% decrease in usage. This project included installing a set of 
comprehensive energy efficiency measures, and its success has inspired us to implement similar 
projects at five plants throughout the U.S. in an effort to boost our overall energy efficiency.    
34 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
We recently improved the accuracy of our reporting and calculations, and to 
be as transparent as possible, we’ve updated our energy numbers to reflect our 
2020 and 2021 performance more accurately. As you can see in the table, our 
energy intensity increased in 2021, mostly due to lower production volume. 
GRAHAM PACKAGING, MODESTO, CALIFORNIA    
Saving Energy Using Automated Solutions 
Motors and compressed air systems that run continuously even when they aren’t in use 
increase energy costs. On the other hand, when facilities manage these systems effectively, 
it can lead to decreases in annual energy costs and optimized equipment operation. 
Our Modesto, CA, team successfully implemented an automated line control system, which will reduce the 
plant’s total energy consumption by ~3%. This system involves using automated controls, designing potential 
soft/staggered starts and eliminating manual intervention to start and stop machines when they aren’t needed.    
Energy Use at Graham Packaging
YEAROVERALL  
USAGE ( kWh)PRODUCTION 
VOLUME (LBS)ENERGY 
INTENSITY 
(kWh/LBS)YOY 
CHANGECHANGE FROM 
2018 BASELINE
2021 1,150,491,823 1,099,252,814 1.047 4% -3%
2020 1,140,228,119 1,134,446,207 1.005 -4% -7%
2019 1,133,281,359 1,087,914,241 1.042 -4% -4%
2018 1,219,969,398 1,129,491,893 1.080 Baseline Baseline
35 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Transportation Solutions 
Transportation plays a large role in the 
environmental impact of our products 
over their life cycle. E-commerce — which 
grew to 19% of overall retail sales in 2020 
— has increased the need for shipping-
friendly packages. Thus, we’ve developed 
several strategies to help lower fuel 
consumption by reducing shipping needs. 
The first is co-location manufacturing. 
One out of every three Graham plants is 
positioned near or inside our customers’ 
filling facilities. Co-location simplifies 
both the manufacturing and distribution 
streams. It eliminates the need to ship 
empty bottles to our customers, which 
helps save fuel and shipping costs. 
It also boosts operational efficiency, 
because we can share services and 
utilities while working to reduce scrap. 
Another strategy is to design with shipping 
in mind. Lightweighting packaging allows 
more product to fit on a single truck, 
and it can also reduce raw materials and 
energy use. Packages can be completely 
redesigned with lightweighting in mind, or 
Graham designers can work to lightweight 
existing packaging without changing 
the overall look of the container. Similarly, our team creates bottles 
specifically designed for e-commerce. 
Lightweighting is a component of this, but 
it also includes designing durable packages 
that can be shipped with less secondary 
packaging material. Less material equates 
to less weight, meaning more packages 
can be loaded onto a single truck. 
We’ve also partnered with the EPA’s 
SmartWay program , designed to 
help companies measure, benchmark 
and improve freight transportation 
efficiency. This program allows us to 
track our transportation emissions so 
we can implement innovative fuel-
saving technologies and strategies.What about waste?
In 2021, we worked to reduce 
our waste-to-landfill through 
recycling and incineration 
for energy generation.
Contributing to the SDGs:recycled or 
incinerated72%landfilled28%36 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Carbon Emissions
Although the term “greenhouse effect” 
dates to the 19th century , the focus on 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
is relatively new. Today, countries, 
businesses and individuals must do 
their part to slow the effects of climate 
change, which are widespread and 
destructive. Severe weather, sea level rise, 
ecosystem disruptions and even increased 
air pollution can all be tied back to the 
negative impact of climate change. 
At Graham, we’re serious about protecting 
our planet from changing temperatures, 
so we’re working to reduce GHG emissions 
at every level of our operations. We 
started tracking our scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG 
emissions in 2020 to fully understand our 
climate impacts, and we continuously 
work to cut our emissions through 
operational efficiencies and sustainable 
packaging. In 2021, we saw a 1% overall 
decrease in our carbon emissions.  
Contributing to the SDGs:
YEARTOTAL GHG 
EMISSIONS -  
SCOPE 1, 2  
& 3 ( tCO2E) YOY  
CHANGE 
2021 1,811,385 -1% 
2020 1,828,130 Baseline 
What are the three 
scopes of GHG emissions?
Scope 1:  
Direct emissions from owned 
or controlled sources 
Scope 2:  
Indirect emissions from the 
generation of purchased energy 
Scope 3:  
All indirect emissions present in 
the value chain of the company 37 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
In 2020, we conducted a gap assessment for scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. We also 
did a complete scope 3 emissions screening and inventory for all relevant categories 
per the GHG Protocol . Our scope 3 emissions make up the bulk of our total GHG 
emissions — as much as 78% in our 2020 baseline year — followed by scope 2 and 
then scope 1. We plan to report all three types of emissions moving forward.
 
 
Overall Scope 1 Emissions 
YEARTOTAL 
EMISSIONS  
(tCO2E) YOY  
CHANGE 
2021 459,943 0.6% 
2020 457,317 Baseline Overall Scope 2 Emissions
Overall Scope 3 Emissions
YEARTOTAL 
EMISSIONS  
(tCO2E) YOY  
CHANGE 
2021 1,319,691 -1.5% 
2020 1,339,622 BaselineThe scope 3 numbers in this report 
include emissions data from our resin 
use. Based on the comprehensive scope 
3 emissions inventory conducted for 
2020 as the baseline year, our resin 
use accounts for more than two-thirds 
of our total scope 3 emissions.
YEARTOTAL 
EMISSIONS  
(tCO2E) YOY  
CHANGE 
2021 31,750 1.8% 
2020 31,190 Baseline38 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Making the Shift to Science-Based Targets 
In 2021, we began exploring science-
based targets for GHG emissions. Although 
we’ve set goals to reduce our emissions 
for several years, they were based on our 
internal evaluation of our operations. The 
move to science-based targets represents 
a shifting mindset, one that values 
working for the common good by seeking 
external validation of our goals and data. 
The Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi)  is a partnership between leading 
world organizations, including CDP, the 
UN Global Compact, World Resources 
Institute and the World Wide Fund 
for Nature, that focuses on enabling 
companies to take urgent and necessary 
action to avoid the devastating effects 
of climate change. They help businesses 
like ours define appropriate science-
based targets. Nearly 1,000 companies 
worldwide have voiced their support of 
the SBTi’s campaign for companies to 
set net-zero or science-based targets. SBTi defines science-based targets 
as goals based on the latest climate 
science, specifically what’s necessary to 
meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
The Paris Agreement looks to limit 
global warming to below 2oC above 
pre-industrial levels and further pursue 
actions that will limit warming to 1.5oC. 
To demonstrate our commitment to 
environmental and social responsibility in 
2021, we committed to setting science-
based targets through SBTi. We will 
continue to work through this process in 
upcoming years to have validated targets 
in 2023, thereby improving our ability to 
grow sustainably. Customers, consumers 
and investors all benefit when we do 
business transparently, and we’re steadfast 
in our resolve to reduce emissions and 
take bold action against climate change. 
39 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Battling Food Insecurity 
Food insecurity affected as many as 
35 million people in the U.S. prior to 
COVID-19. That number is expected to 
rise in 2022, with many suffering from 
the continued effects of the pandemic. 
Globally, it’s estimated that 1.9 billion 
people  experience food insecurity, and the 
UN has identified undernourishment as a 
leading risk factor for health problems. 
While food insecurity can have 
devastating consequences on people, 
food also contributes in a significant way 
to climate change. Sources estimate 
that wasted food — and the resources 
used to produce it — account for up to 
11% of the world’s emissions . In other 
words, the emissions from wasted food 
currently have a greater impact on our 
climate than the emissions from certain 
countries. Globally, if food waste could 
be represented as its own country, it 
would be the third-largest greenhouse 
gas emitter , behind China and the U.S.  
Innovative, sustainable product packaging 
can combat food waste by preserving 
perishable foods, lengthening shelf life and 
lessening product loss due to breakage. 
Solutions like our advanced barrier 
technologies promote better shelf life without affecting the recyclability of the 
container, while lightweighted containers 
reduce fuel consumption and emissions. 
Another example is our ThermaSet® 
PET solution, which can replace glass 
in hot-fill, pasteurization and retort 
applications. When an independent 
research firm conducted a life-cycle 
assessment comparing ThermaSet jars 
to glass jars, it found that ThermaSet 
had a 38% smaller carbon footprint 
and 47% less global warming potential. 
It’s also shatterproof, 100% recyclable 
and 80%-90% lighter than glass. 
Food waste may seem like an issue 
that’s independent from product 
packaging, but using the right packaging 
solutions can help minimize food waste 
around the world. By continuing to 
work with brands to improve their 
packaging, we join the fight against 
food insecurity and climate change.
Contributing to the SDGs: 35million U.S. citizens 
experience food insecurity 
billion people experience 
food insecurity globally 1.9
40 INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 ENVIRONMENTAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Our Partnerships
Ellen MacArthur Foundation  
Signatory of the New Plastics 
Economy Global Commitment. 
The Recycling Partnership  
Ally in the fight to keep 
plastic out of landfills. 
Sustainable Packaging Coalition  
Participant in efforts to spark meaningful 
action around sustainability. 
The Association of Plastic Recyclers  
Supporter of PET and HDPE plastic 
resources and initiatives. Plastic Recycling Corporation  
of California (PRCC)  
Champion of PET recycling in 
the state of California. 
Better Plants Program  
Partner in finding creative ways 
to reduce energy usage. 
Holy Grail 2.0 Project 
Collaborator in the development of 
new traceability technologies. 
SmartWay Program   
Contributor to the measure and reduction 
of freight transportation impacts. Operation Clean Sweep   
Partner on the path to zero 
pellet, flake and powder loss. 
Petcore Europe   
Member committed to creating a 
circular PET value chain in Europe. 
Plastic Recyclers Europe  
Supporter of the circularity of plastics 
and the transition to a circular economy. 
How2Recycle   
Collaborator in helping brands get 
the proper label on their products. 
National Lubricant Container  
Recycling Coalition (NLCRC)  
Founding member in the development 
of plastic lubricant container 
recycling solutions. FERNANDO MACHADO,  
COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR OF SOUTH AMERICA   
Committing to a Circular Economy in Brazil 
Graham has been a member of ABIPLAST, a plastic industry union in Brazil, for more than 10 years. In 2021, 
ABIPLAST started a program to incentivize the circular economy by working in different regions of Brazil to 
install material collection points, develop recycling companies and train people on proper recycling. 
We immediately recognized this program as something we wanted to be a part of — not only because 
it supports our goals, but because it will enable us to help customers meet their goals as well. So, we 
began the process of joining this effort in 2021. As we work with ABIPLAST next year, we’ll implement 
these actions for food and dairy production in two of our Brazil locations, with the goal of having 
22% of the total resin produced in these plants be recycled back into the circular economy. 
UN GLOBAL COMPACT 
Participant in the global 
community’s largest ESG initiative. This year we made significant progress on our commitment to 
social responsibility and our mission to be “people creating a 
better tomorrow.” From laying the foundation for a diverse culture 
that attracts the best talent to providing support where our 
communities need it, we’re proud to share our 2021 highlights. Social
2021 in Focus
increase in employee 
motivation over 2020 10%of employees feel their 
job provides opportunities 
to do challenging and 
interesting work 75%
Graham Engagement Action 
Teams (GREATs) meet monthly 602021 Best Workplaces  in 
Lancaster County Award of plants led at least 
one community event 100%
of plants led at 
least two events 75%42 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Message From Lisa Santin
People are our greatest competitive 
advantage. As the pandemic continued 
to create challenges worldwide in 
2021, we understood that more than 
ever our employees want leadership 
that plays an expanded role in their 
physical, mental and financial health. 
We used this opportunity to take a fresh 
look at our priorities and ask ourselves 
seemingly basic but absolutely essential 
questions, from “How do we become an 
employer of choice?” to “How can we bring 
new employees onboard in an engaging 
way?” to “How do we keep employees 
engaged?” The answers to these questions 
resulted in our company developing a 
deeper focus on nurturing a positive 
workplace culture in which every team 
member has the opportunity to thrive.  We made significant progress in 2021. 
Whether we were engaging our leadership 
team with culture-focused meetings, 
refreshing our onboarding processes or 
launching DE&I panel discussions, our 
commitment to taking meaningful action 
was evident in so many ways. Our efforts 
were recognized with a Best Workplace 
in Lancaster County Award, a designation 
judged using employee surveys.  
We understand the value of investing in our 
employees in ways that make an impact 
for them and for Graham. As we move 
forward, we’re exploring new and creative 
ways to support attraction and retention, 
as well as build on the DE&I foundation. 
 
 We’ve always been proud of our culture 
at Graham — and we’re committed to 
differentiating ourselves by developing 
the best possible employee experience, 
standing out as a destination employer 
and strengthening our role as a creative 
problem solver for our clients. 
Lisa Santin  
Executive Vice President, Human Resources  
“Whether we were engaging our leadership team with culture-focused 
meetings, refreshing our onboarding processes or launching DE&I 
panel discussions, our commitment to taking meaningful action was 
evident in so many ways.”43 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Defining Our Standards
WE VALUE OUR PEOPLE
We create a safe environment for our 
team of innovative and diverse people. 
We reward individuals and behaviors that 
make a positive difference and create 
value for customers.  WE HONOR OUR COMMITMENTS
We act with integrity, earning the trust 
of our partners both inside and outside 
of the company.
WE ARE THE PARTNER OF CHOICE
We strive to always be a destination 
company that people want to work at, 
customers want to partner with and 
community members are proud of.WE DRIVE FOR EXCELLENCE
We hold ourselves to the highest 
standards and are always looking to 
learn from the mistakes of ourselves 
and others to improve and add value. 
How we do our work 
matters just as much 
as what we do. Our 
core values guide us 
every day, whether 
we’re developing 
advanced solutions for 
recyclability, sourcing a 
new supplier or raising 
money for a local charity. 44 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Social Goals
The social aspect of our business has always been a core focus. Now, we’re elevating 
our social initiatives to a level that reflects our role as an industry leader. As we move 
forward, our next steps will include a range of goals that will allow us to build a 
diverse, collaborative team, committed to a cleaner world and a better tomorrow.  
• Build on the robust diversity, equity and 
inclusion advancements we made in 2021, 
including the launch of our Diversity Council 
• Create a positive employee experience 
that makes us a destination employer 
and retains valuable talent
• Continue outreach programs for hiring 
from diverse populations, including military 
veterans and people with disabilities
• Continue programs, such as our student 
debt loan repayment initiative, that 
attract high-potential talent
• Roll out our refreshed onboarding 
program to all our U.S. plants 
• Attract and develop people-
centric leadership
of global facilities will participate 
in at least one employee-led 
community support activity. 100%
of Graham facilities will engage 
in more than one employee-led 
community support activity. 70%45 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Giving Back to Our Global Communities
In 2021, we challenged our facilities to lead 
at least one community support initiative. 
And the Graham team delivered — 100% 
of our facilities engaged in at least one 
employee-led event, and 75% participated 
in two or more, continuing our mission to 
serve as a partner of choice in communities 
around the world.  
donated to help Graham team members 
severely impacted by Hurricane Ida 
*$15,000 raised by our employees, 
contributions matched by Grahamdonated to the Juvenile Diabetes 
Research Fund (JDRF) $15,000 $30,000 We continue to make an impact on people through 
community partnerships that give back to those who 
need it the most. This year we donated to critical 
initiatives, including:   
National Cleanup Day Goes Global    
Our employees showed their commitment to creating a better tomorrow by participating in National 
Cleanup Day 2021. Teams from 12 Graham Packaging locations around the world participated in the event, 
sponsored by our Women in Business and Allies and Young Professionals employee resource groups. 
For the event, Graham teams chose community cleanup projects that reflected a need in the local 
community, from picking up trash in local parks to clearing garbage from local waterways. Graham 
employees collected and removed a total of nearly 6,000 pounds of trash from their communities.  46 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Locally Led Community Initiatives 
At Graham, sharing our time, talent and resources with the communities where we work 
is an essential part of who we are as a company. Our employee-led, locally focused 
initiatives allow us to do that in a way that’s meaningful to each individual community.  
Kayak and Clean Event    
Sponsored by our Young Professionals employee resource group, more than 30 team 
members from our Lancaster, PA, headquarters and York, PA, Tech Center paddled the 
Susquehanna River in our first-ever Kayak and Clean Event. The group enjoyed a guided 
kayak tour of the river as they picked up trash. During their 5-mile journey, they removed 
410 pounds of waste. Afterwards, our volunteers shared well-earned food and drink.
30
plants  participated in 
beautification projects
24
plants  collected for 
holiday toy drives 17
plants  donated clothing 
and essential items
43
plants  participated 
in holiday food drives47 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
See How We’re Helping Our Communities 
From raising funds for those in need to cleaning up natural resources, we’re proud of the 
numerous initiatives our teams led and supported this year to build stronger communities.  
RED ROSE RUN 
Fundraising for Lancaster Central Market.WALK A MILE IN HER SHOES 
Fundraising for gender-based 
violence awareness.WREATHS ACROSS AMERICA 
Laying wreaths to honor military veterans.
HURRICANE IDA RELIEF
Fundraising for impacted team members.KAYAK AND CLEAN EVENT  
Clearing trash from the Susquehanna River.GLOBAL NATIONAL CLEANUP DAY 
Removing refuse from various 
community parks.
48 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Health & Safety 
“Safety First — People Always” continues to be our primary 
focus at Graham. To help support and grow our culture of 
safety, in 2021 we launched our executive safety council, a 
group that includes our operational and functional leaders 
as well as our CEO.   
At their monthly meetings, our leadership team members exchange ideas, discuss 
performance and map out a path forward that ensures safety is embedded in 
everything we do.
We continue to adjust our COVID-19 protocols, aligning with CDC guidelines to ensure our 
employees stay healthy and protected. Our initiatives have included an encouragement 
program to promote the benefit of COVID-19 vaccinations among our employees and the 
continued use of enhanced protocols, such as close contact tracing. As recommendations 
continue to evolve, we will evolve with them to safeguard our employees.
49 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Contributing 
to the SDGs:BUILDING OUR SAFETY VISION
Our vision is clear and uncompromising: 
We strive to be the world leader in 
Environment, Health, Safety and 
Sustainability. We have — and will 
continue to drive — EH&S excellence and 
deliver innovative policies, standards and 
programs to ensure the health and safety 
of our colleagues, our customers and 
the communities in which we operate. 
Safe working conditions. Healthy habits. 
Companywide accountability. These are 
the foundations for everything we do, every 
day. To bring our vision to life, we will: 
• Provide robust EH&S support in the 
field, often through coaching and 
working side by side with Graham 
employees, contractors and customers 
• Offer readily available technical experts 
that respond in a timely manner to 
internal and external customer requests 
• Build a team that encourages others to 
be creative and is recognized as a source 
of advice and counsel — grass roots 
advocacy, partnership and collaboration 
• Empower our team to challenge 
the status quo and innovate 
performance improvements
66%global operations achieved 
recordable-free performance
1,691 DAYS
on average that a Graham operation  
has gone without a recordable injury
Graham Safety Performance vs. Industry Benchmarks: 
Total Recordable Injury Rate Comparison
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
0
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 20214.404.60
4.30
3.70 3.70 3.70 3.80
3.50
3.30 3.203.002.902.70 2.80 2.802.70
0.91 0.911.11
0.79
0.55 0.55 0.55 0.53 0.49Plastics Industry
Private Industry
Graham Packaging50 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Message From Roy Osborne  
From the continued impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic to the shifts in 
the labor market, 2021 required us to 
evolve with the changes in the world 
around us even as we continued to 
provide solutions that bring value and 
sustainability to our customers.  
We continue to meet each challenge as it 
arises. For example, our team’s quarterly 
training program allows us to act nimbly 
to address potential problems through 
training. We reinforce good safety practices 
by driving awareness around specific 
topics, like preventing hand injuries.   With the launch of our executive safety 
council, we’re looking forward at ways 
to sustain performance and address 
future challenges as they arise, as well as 
execute the tactical actions that take us 
on a path of continuous improvement.  
2021 was also the second year of utilizing 
the Graham Operating System, which 
measures a range of subelements, 
from EH&S quality to continuous 
improvement, used to evaluate plants 
annually. This year our collective EH&S 
score was 88.2%, which was the highest 
score out of all the factors we evaluate. We’re proud of that achievement, and 
it directly reflects our companywide 
commitment to ensuring safe operations.  
Our mission is to be a real-time, practical 
resource, providing service to Graham 
personnel around the world while 
balancing our governance obligations. 
Roy Osborne  
Global Vice President, Risk Management, 
Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety 
“We drive EH&S excellence, delivering innovative 
policies, standards and programs to ensure the 
safety and health of our Graham colleagues, 
customers, communities — and our planet.”   51 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
1.  UNDERSTANDING & GROWING 
OUR DIVERSE WORKFORCE 
The support of informed hiring practices 
was a key goal for us in 2021. We held 
eight training sessions on interviewing 
best practices and understanding the 
impact of unconscious bias during the 
interview process. The sessions also 
helped managers better understand 
the importance of inclusion.  
We also laid the groundwork for 
building a DE&I metrics dashboard. 
Still in development, the dashboard 
will monitor Graham DE&I data and 
benchmark it against industry norms, 
giving us actionable data that will help 
us strengthen our DE&I efforts. The 
dashboard is scheduled to launch in 2022.
  2. BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE  
We made significant headway this year 
in our efforts to build a culture that 
welcomes diverse perspectives. In addition 
to successfully solidifying our employee 
resource groups, Women in Business 
and Allies, and Young Professionals, 
we committed to using our annual 
YourVoice! employee engagement 
survey to fuel meaningful change.  
To help us do that, we introduced Graham 
Engagement Action Teams (GREATs). These 
teams, which include members ranging 
from hourly employees to leadership 
team members, assist in action planning 
at the local level. Over 60 GREATs help 
improve employee engagement and the 
employee experience by taking time to 
address issues important to employees, 
reassuring them that our leadership values 
their workplace experience. Our GREATs 
also help us further train leaders on DE&I’s 
link to engagement, reinforcing how — by 
focusing on both — we all play a role in 
building a more inclusive place to work.3.  SUPPORTING OUR LEADERS AS 
THEY EMBRACE DIVERSITY 
In 2021, we committed to supporting our 
leaders in their growth by training all of our 
managers on DE&I basics. We developed 
an implicit bias training program, in the 
form of a panel discussion, that brings 
leaders from across Graham to share 
their experiences. The panel, held for all 
of Graham’s managers, created a safe 
space for meaningful conversations.  
DE&I content is also being included in the 
GOLD Standard Leadership Development 
program, which provides training for 
current and future Graham leaders. In 
development now, DE&I and implicit bias 
training content will be incorporated into 
all modules of the program, including 
hiring and recognition components, as 
they relate to each training topic. 
Contributing to the SDGs:
We continue to take actions that deeply embed diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) into 
our culture. In 2021, we developed a three-year plan that established three goals. 52 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Focusing on Employee Engagement 
In a year that challenged employers 
across the U.S. to play an expanded 
role in employees’ physical, mental and 
financial well-being, Graham continued 
to prioritize employee engagement.  
In September 2021, we launched a 
flexible work policy in our corporate 
office to give employees the ability 
to create a better work-life balance 
and allow Graham expanded access 
to diverse talent markets.  Other highlights include our Better U 
employee education assistance program, 
which provides tuition reimbursement 
for qualifying employees. Some of 
our locations leverage this program 
to help current employees upskill 
in areas like maintenance. And, at 
our York, PA, Technology Center, we 
added a Mother’s Room to provide 
a private space for new mothers. 
MANDY DURST, TRAINING COORDINATOR   
Finding New Approaches to Labor Challenges  
I work at Graham’s Findlay, Ohio, plant, and since the pandemic began, things have been 
really busy. We worked a lot of overtime, especially through the summer of 2021, and still 
today we’re struggling to find people for our team. I handle the new-hire orientations 
at our plant, and lately I’ve had an orientation every week — sometimes more.   
At first we could find people but they wouldn’t stay. Now, we’re making extra efforts to keep good workers, 
and we’re seeing better results. For example, we do a survey with new hires to see how things are going. We 
reward people for perfect attendance. I’m also available to help them work through issues, like addressing a 
training process challenge they might experience. Overall, we've seen better retention thanks to these changes. 
feel their job provides 
opportunities  to 
do challenging and 
interesting work 
Employees reported 
a 10% increase in 
motivation since 2020 75%RESULTS FROM OUR ANNUAL 
YOURVOICE! EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT SURVEY53 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Employees Leading the Way 
Our global employee resource groups 
(ERGs), which are voluntary, employee-
led groups, are a growing force for 
engagement at Graham. Employees 
join ERGs to develop skills, network 
with colleagues and connect with their 
communities in ways that tie into our 
mission and business goals. We’re proud 
of the leadership and enthusiasm these 
groups brought to each of the many 
initiatives they led or supported in 2021. Women in Business and Allies: This active 
ERG supports a range of events to create 
an inclusive environment that empowers 
and motivates women to develop skills 
and leadership potential. Highlights 
from 2021 include Lunch and Learn 
opportunities and a book club centered 
on self, professional and leadership 
development. Women in Business also 
became a member of the U.S. trade 
organization Women in Manufacturing 
and sponsored employee attendance 
at the PA Conference for Women.  Young Professionals:  More than 60 
members strong, this ERG helps develop, 
engage and retain Graham’s future 
leaders. During 2021, this group sponsored 
several community events and led 
numerous initiatives, including several 
focused on workforce development. 
In addition to the “Coffee and Career 
Development Conversations” webinar 
series, Young Professionals also sponsored 
a career development action plan 
workshop that brought participants 
together with senior leaders for one-on-
one career action planning conversations. 
LAUREN BOVARD, SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES GENERALIST
Making Change in Our Local Communities
One of our guiding principles is to be a partner of choice — and that includes serving as partner to 
our communities. What makes our approach unique is that our employees lead these initiatives, 
empowered to choose actions that are meaningful for the community where they live and work. 
As the chair of the Young Professionals Employee Resource Group, I had the privilege of seeing firsthand 
the dedication and enthusiasm group members brought to every project, from the Kayak & Clean Event to 
Global Cleanup Day. Ultimately, these initiatives, as well as those sponsored by the Women in Business and 
Allies ERG, did more than just bring us closer to our communities — they united the Graham team as one.  
I’m so proud of what we’ve accomplished and cannot wait to see what next year holds! 
54 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE CONCLUSION
 SOCIAL
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Strengthening Our Competitive Advantage
The ongoing evolution of 
recruitment strategies is 
key to ensuring Graham’s 
position as a destination 
employer able to 
attract employees 
diverse in perspective 
and passionate about 
building a more 
sustainable world. Last 
year, we set a goal to 
develop and implement 
a community-focused 
outreach hiring program 
that identifies high-
potential talent among 
diverse groups. SECOND CHANCE PROGRAM
This reentry program allows former felons 
the opportunity to build a successful career 
on the Graham team. Currently focused 
on our Tech Center, Second Chance 
works with local organizations to tap into 
potential talent within this community.  PATHWAYS PROGRAM
This new program offers student debt 
repayment for vocational track candidates 
completing industrial maintenance 
programs. Participating employees 
commit to a three-year contract in 
exchange for monthly debt payments 
that pay off the full debt amount by 
the completion of the contract. 
LAUNCH PROGRAM
For high school seniors interested in 
entering the workforce immediately 
after graduation, Launch provides a 
window into manufacturing career 
opportunities. We invite high school seniors 
and their parents to tour their local U.S. 
Graham plant, as well as provide the 
opportunity for students to interview 
and qualify for a sign-on bonus. HOMEFRONT PROGRAM
This program focuses on building 
connections with veterans and their 
spouses as they transition into civilian 
life. In addition to collaborating 
with a third-party military veteran 
recruitment partner, our outreach in 
2021 expanded our access to veterans 
through recruitment events. We’re also 
exploring additional ways to strengthen 
our impact by adding local initiatives 
to the veteran candidate pipeline.  In addition to working with community leaders to identify bilingual talent as 
well as talent among those with disabilities, in 2021 we continued to develop:  Governance 
Ethics and integrity are at the core of every action we take. 
We’ve moved forward this year to build a strong framework 
that will ensure our employees, as well as everyone across 
our supply chain, inspires the trust that positions us as a 
leading partner for creating a more sustainable tomorrow.    
Green Procurement Team launched 2021 in Focus
Patrick McNabb  named as our 
first vice president of cybersecurity 
Updated  FCPA, GDPR and Fraud policies Ethics in 
Business 
Award 2021
sourcing time spent finding 
recycled materials 25%Used Supplier Scorecards  to evaluate 
ESG compliance of potential suppliers56 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL CONCLUSION
 GOVERNANCE
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Message From Brian Smith 
For nearly 25 years, I’ve built a career 
grounded in the auditing, advisory 
and consulting world — and as a 
recent addition to the Graham team, 
I’m excited by the opportunities 
ahead for this company and our 
employees, partners and customers.  
As I came on board in 2021, the COVID-19 
pandemic still presented challenges. 
Early in the year, many of our plant audits 
were conducted remotely. As conditions 
changed, our team shifted seamlessly back 
to on-site audits. We completed our 2021 
approved audit plan on schedule, and I’m 
proud of the dedication and perseverance 
our team showed in executing this 
critical work and in everything they do.    
Another highlight of 2021 was being 
recognized with the Ethics in Business 
Award from Samaritan Counseling Center 
in Lancaster, PA. Graham was selected for its excellence in five key areas, including 
integrity, fairness and justice, stewardship, 
life enhancement and transparency.  
In addition to our current Audit and 
Compliance Committee, we’re expanding 
our ability to assess business risk level and 
plan risk mitigation strategies in 2022 with 
board-level committees, including groups 
for audit, compensation and disclosure. 
This framework will allow us to continue 
building a world-class organization.  
We are building on the strides made in 
2021 by exploring the implementation 
of an enterprise risk management (ERM) 
program. By taking a strategic, holistic 
approach, we can better pinpoint 
operational and regulatory compliance 
risks and identify opportunities.  
We recognize that to be an industry 
leader able to provide value to all our stakeholders, we need to implement 
world-class standards and processes that 
guide our actions every day. Whether it’s 
our human rights commitment ingrained 
at the highest level or our ongoing training 
to inform employees on ethics and 
compliance issues, we’re committed to 
supporting conduct — across our supply 
chain — founded in ethics and integrity.   
Our vision, solid foundation and rigorous 
processes position Graham as a 
sustainability leader with the ethics and 
integrity to inspire trust in our stakeholders.  
Brian Smith  
Director of Internal Audit   
“We recognize that to be an industry leader able to provide 
value to all our stakeholders, we need to implement world-class 
standards and processes that guide our actions every day.”  57 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL CONCLUSION
 GOVERNANCE
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Governance Leadership Team 
As we hold ourselves accountable for bridging the gap between profitability and the 
health of people and our planet, our efforts in 2021 were focused on strengthening our 
corporate governance foundation. Now, looking at 2022 and beyond, we will build on 
the solid framework we’ve formed. 
“As prestigious external organizations 
validate and recognize the work we’re 
already doing, all our stakeholders 
can be assured that we’re ready to 
lead the industry with integrity.” “From sustainable procurement to 
sustainable products, Graham is 
committed to ensuring integrity and 
ethical conduct, not just in our own 
organization but across the value chain.”  “By aligning with universal sustainability 
principles — and putting those principles 
into action every day — we inspire the 
trust that positions us as a global leader.” 
Tracee Auld,  
Chief Strategy and 
Sustainability OfficerRicha Desai,  
Director of Sustainability Doug Cassel,  
General Counsel 
“From safety training to leadership 
development to DE&I initiatives, we work 
every day to ensure that we continue, at 
all levels of our organization, to promote 
ethics and integrity.” “In 2021, we made a significant investment 
in building a best-in-class IT team and 
integrating the right technology stack. 
These strides position us well for continued 
growth and agile transformation.”  “I’m incredibly proud of the tremendous 
work we’ve done in the past year from a 
financial perspective. From building an 
even stronger financial team to driving 
a culture of transparency, we continue 
to create value for our stakeholders.” 
Lisa Santin,  
Executive Vice President  
of Human Resources Wayne Anderson,  
Chief Information Officer   Kris Warfel,  
Chief Financial Officer 
58 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL CONCLUSION
 GOVERNANCE
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Ethics & Compliance
First and foremost, 
Graham maintains a code 
of ethics and compliance 
that informs each 
decision made at every 
level of the company. 
Our well-developed 
Code of Ethics policy 
requires each individual 
to act lawfully and with 
integrity in all aspects 
of our business. It drives 
everything we do, 
including not only how we 
do business but also how 
we treat one another. We continually evaluate our Code of Ethics and related policies, making updates 
as appropriate to ensure our workforce is informed of these critical obligations and 
that they remain top of mind in our actions and decision-making processes. We 
also seek out relationships with industry and sustainability partners to support and 
supplement our commitments to the highest ethical standards in our business.  
GOVERNANCE INITIATIVES
Ongoing Training: Employees train, 
at a minimum annually, on our Code 
of Ethics policies, like anti-corruption, 
anti-bribery, antitrust and data privacy, 
as well as region-specific topics. Our 
education program ensures that these 
subjects are always top of mind and all 
decisions we make support this goal. 
New employees receive training on 
Code of Ethics and related policies.Supplier Policies: Supplier Scorecards 
help us evaluate whether potential 
suppliers meet the standards outlined 
in our comprehensive Supplier Quality 
Manual and demonstrate continual 
improvement in ESG-related areas, 
like regulatory reporting, product 
documentation and respect for human 
rights. In 2022, we began giving preference 
to suppliers able to demonstrate their 
sustainability efforts and improvements.  
The addition of a new Green Procurement 
Team helps us ensure that, short-term, we 
have enough recycled materials sourced 
to support customers in states impacted 
by recycled content legislation. Long-
term, the team is tasked with procuring 
sufficient recycled materials to meet the 
needs of all our customers by 2025. To 
accomplish these goals, we’ve challenged 
our procurement team to spend up to 25% 
of their time sourcing green materials.59 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL CONCLUSION
 GOVERNANCE
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Customer Management:  To ensure 
that every entity, whether a customer 
or a contractor, meets our standards 
of ethics, we evaluate every new 
relationship to make sure partners 
meet our standards for safe, healthy 
working conditions. We monitor internal 
relationships and relevant external 
databases and government-provided 
lists to help ensure we work with entities 
without corruption or related violations. 
Internal Audits & Risk Evaluations: Our 
Audit & Compliance Committee meets 
quarterly, bringing together leaders 
from several key departments, such as 
sustainability, human resources and 
accounting. Working collaboratively, 
this committee assesses business risk 
and proposes risk mitigation strategies. 
In addition to discussing active hotline 
case reports, Audit & Compliance 
also addresses policy reviews, fraud 
investigations, non-hotline investigations 
and compliance training for employees.   
This year the committee updated policies 
for fraud, General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) and Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA). In addition, the Audit 
& Compliance Committee began the 
process of implementing a companywide 
training program to ensure all employees 
understand expectations moving forward.  UN Global Compact:  In 2021, we 
reaffirmed our commitment to continually 
improve the integration of UN Global 
Compact principles into our business 
strategy, culture and daily operations. 
This framework of Ten Principles 
guides us as we assess, define and 
implement our sustainability strategy. 
Contributing to the SDGs:60 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL CONCLUSION
 GOVERNANCE
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Data Security
We made significant strides this year to 
protect our sensitive, confidential data. 
To further solidify a robust cybersecurity 
policy, we created and filled an executive-
level role at Graham: a vice president of 
cybersecurity, charged with ensuring the 
protection of our IT systems. We codified 
security policies and procedures, as well 
as established a NIST cybersecurity 
framework that outlines industry standards 
and provides best practices that allow us 
to effectively manage cybersecurity risk. 
Our Cybersecurity Team regularly meets with both the Audit and Compliance 
Committee and our Executive Leadership 
Team to address potential new policies 
and revision of current policies.  
Cybersecurity is also a priority in our 
manufacturing systems. We have 60+ 
plants around the globe, and like any 
manufacturing system, they are each 
exposed to unique threats and challenges. 
Of course, all our cybersecurity initiatives 
must account for our customers’ unique 
connectivity and manufacturing 
requirements. To ensure our services stay online for customers, we’ve started 
building strategies that isolate and protect 
operating technology and engineering 
environments according to best practices. 
Our employees are the first line of 
cybersecurity defense. We invest in security 
awareness training that helps team 
members at every level learn to recognize 
threats from malware and other forms 
of cybercrime. And because threats are 
always evolving, our training will evolve to 
help employees recognize new threats. 
PATRICK MCNABB, VICE PRESIDENT OF CYBERSECURITY
Building a Strong Cybersecurity Program
I came to Graham in 2021 with extensive experience in the government, academia and commercial 
sectors. And I’m excited to leverage expertise that combines a range of experiences to build a 
best-in-class cybersecurity program at Graham.  
2021 was a year of significant positive change in our ability to protect sensitive information. We built 
and launched a new Cybersecurity Program that takes a holistic view of our operations, from aligning 
with an industry-specific framework to developing policies and governance structures to building robust 
technical solutions. The result is more visibility than ever into our cybersecurity risks and opportunities.  
As we move forward, our goal is to cultivate a culture of cybersecurity expertise, with employees at 
every level and location trained to recognize and help protect our sensitive data, including customer 
data, against threats like phishing or social engineering. 
61 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL CONCLUSION
 GOVERNANCE
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
Data Privacy 
Protecting data privacy 
also continues to be 
a focus. We have a 
Cyber Governance 
Council comprised of 
strategic stakeholders 
within Graham to make 
sure we’re handling 
sensitive information. 
We provide annual 
training to ensure 
awareness and 
adherence to all our 
data privacy policies. 
Contributing 
to the SDGs:OUR DATA CLASSIFICATION POLICY OUTLINES THREE TYPES OF DATA:  
Confidential Data: Not intended for 
public dissemination, this data poses 
a high risk if made generally available. 
If it’s lost, corrupted or disclosed to 
unauthorized entities, it has a high 
potential to harm our business and 
result in severe financial, operational 
and reputational loss or legal impact. 
Internal Data: Intended for use by 
employees and third parties for the sole 
intent of conducting business within, and 
with, Graham, it can create moderate risk 
if made generally available. Internal data 
is not intended for public use. The default 
classification for our data is Internal.Public Data: Poses no risk, or minimal 
risk, if made generally available. In 
the event of its loss, corruption or 
unauthorized disclosure, it would have 
no adverse impact on our operations, 
assets, reputation, employees or third 
parties conducting business with us. 
We expect employees to treat all data 
as confidential if they are unclear about 
the classification of the data in their 
possession. In addition, we expect them 
to seek guidance from a supervisor 
on how to proceed. All employees 
receive annual, region-specific training 
to ensure they are aware of and 
adhere to our data privacy policies.  62 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
 CONCLUSION
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
 
Looking Ahead  
2021 was a year that 
brought many challenges, 
but our significant progress 
was made possible 
through people. We have 
the choice every day to 
do the right thing for our 
business, our people and 
our planet — and we do it. 
We will continue to find creative, 
research-backed solutions that conserve 
resources, protect natural spaces and 
mitigate climate change while delivering 
value to all our stakeholders. Updates to 
the way we measure our environmental 
progress are helping us better 
understand how we — and our industry 
— can make a meaningful impact on 
building a shared, sustainable future.  As we focus on environmental 
responsibility, we’re developing 
innovative solutions for some of 
today’s most significant plastics 
challenges. From sourcing ocean-
bound plastic to offering PCR 
created through advanced recycling, 
we continue to explore packaging 
solutions that enable easier recycling 
and meet our customers’ needs. 
With a clear and uncompromising 
vision for safety, we will challenge 
ourselves to support and grow a 
culture that drives EH&S excellence 
while ensuring sustainable practices. 
From providing robust EH&S field 
support to empowering our team to 
innovate performance improvements, 
we ensure safety is at the core of 
every action we take, every day.  
The strides we made this year in 
diversity, equity and inclusion will allow 
us to evolve our practices, processes and culture. A key component of moving 
forward will be our DE&I Council, 
which will help ensure we continue to 
foster a culture that welcomes and 
leverages diverse perspectives.    
Along with ongoing social initiatives, 
from our employee resource 
groups to our community work, 
we’ll continue to build a workplace 
environment in which people — our 
most valuable resource — thrive.   
We strengthened our governance 
foundation by building out a robust 
framework that will support our drive 
for transparency, cybersecurity and 
sustainability. Our value system, which 
aligns with the UN Global Compact, 
guides our actions at every level.  
Progress through people. At Graham it’s 
not an empty statement. It’s what we’re 
doing right now — and will continue to 
do — to build a sustainable future.  63 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
 CONCLUSION
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
About This Report 
The information provided in this report does not, and is not intended to, 
constitute legal advice; instead, all information, content, and materials available 
in this report are for general informational purposes only. Information in this 
report may not constitute the most up-to-date legal or other information. 
Recipients of this report should contact their attorney to obtain advice with respect 
to any particular legal matter. No recipient, reader, or user, of this report should 
act or refrain from acting on the basis of information in this report without first 
seeking legal advice from counsel in the relevant jurisdiction. Only your individual 
attorney can provide assurances that the information contained herein — and your 
interpretation of it — is applicable or appropriate to your particular situation. Use of, 
and access to, this report does not create an attorney-client relationship between 
the recipient, reader, or user, and the report authors, or Graham Packaging. 
All liability with respect to actions taken or not taken based on the contents 
of this report are hereby expressly disclaimed. The content in this report is 
provided "as is;" no representations are made that the content is error-free.
 This report covers our owned and operated facilities and does not report on the 
performance of our suppliers, contractors, customers and partners. Forward-looking 
statements are included in this report. These statements were made based on current 
operations data, policies, expectations and projections, but they are subject to change 
as conditions warrant. As with any estimate or business forecast, our actual results and 
numbers may vary. We’re under no obligation to share progress made on the goals laid 
out in this report.64 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
 CONCLUSION
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
About Graham Packaging
Graham Packaging is a leading provider 
of sustainable packaging for a range of 
markets: automotive, food, beverage, 
home care and dairy, health & nutrition. 
Our 60+ facilities across North America, 
Europe and South America produce more 
than 16 billion container units annually. 
Since 1970, we’ve employed some of the 
best and brightest package designers, who 
bring inspired, technology-driven solutions 
to market for essential businesses, from 
large consumer brands to small startups. 
Headquartered in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 
with facilities located throughout the 
world, we are dedicated to excellence in 
sustainability, innovation and creativity.  
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON 
GRAHAM PACKAGING, PLEASE VISIT 
WWW.GRAHAMPACKAGING.COM .
65 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
 CONCLUSION 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
 
https:/ /www.mckinsey.com/
industries/paper-forest-products-
and-packaging/our-insights/the-
drive-toward-sustainability-in-
packaging-beyond-the-quick-wins  
https:/ /www.fooddive.com/news/
how-sustainable-is-the-food-
packaging-industry/539089/
https:/ /www.mckinsey.com/
industries/paper-forest-products-
and-packaging/our-insights/
sustainability-in-packaging-inside-
the-minds-of-us-consumers   
https:/ /adage.com/article/cmo-
strategy/generation-z-willing-pay-
more-eco-friendly-products/2227101   
https:/ /www.wastedive.com/
news/2021-state-extended-producer-
responsibility-recycling/594873/https:/ /plasticsrecycling.org/
images/library/2018-postconsumer-
bottle-recycling-report.pdf
https:/ /resource-recycling.com/
plastics/2021/11/03/us-pet-bottle-
recycling-rate-continues-to-sink/  
https:/ /recyclingpartnership.
org/wp-content/uploads/dlm_
uploads/2020/02/2020-State-
of-Curbside-Recycling.pdf
https:/ /plasticsrecycling.
org/apr-design-guide  
https:/ /nielseniq.com/global/en/
insights/analysis/2021/online-cpg-
sales-in-the-u-s-are-booming-but-
theres-still-room-for-growth/
https:/ /www.unwater.org/
water-facts/scarcity/  https:/ /news.un.org/en/
story/2021/05/1091182  
https:/ /www.epa.gov/smartway/
learn-about-smartway
https:/ /history.aip.org/climate/co2.htm  
https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/about-us 
https:/ /sciencebasedtargets.org/faqs  
https:/ /www.rts.com/resources/
guides/food-waste-america/  
https:/ /ourworldindata.org/hunger-and-
undernourishment#:~:text=9%25%20
of%20the%20world%20
population,moderately%20or%20
severely%20food%20insecure.  SourcesGRI Reporting Index67 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
 CONCLUSION
 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
GRI Reporting Index
 
GRI STANDARD/OTHER SOURCE DISCLOSURE PAGE
GRI 2: General Disclosures2-1 Organizational details 64
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 63
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 63–64
2-7 Employees 3
2-9 Governance structure and composition 57
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 57
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts 57
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 57
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 2
2-23 Policy commitments 4–6
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 4–6;  58–61
2-28 Membership associations 40
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 31
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 5, 55
GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 21, 24
GRI 302: Energy302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 34
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 34
302-3 Energy intensity 34
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 34
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 34–37
GRI 303: Water and Effluents303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 32
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 32
303-3 Water withdrawal 32
GRI 305: Emissions305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 37
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 37
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 37
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 36–37
GRI 306: Waste306-3 Waste generated 35
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 35
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 3568 ENVIRONMENTAL INTRODUCTION SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
 CONCLUSION 2021 GRAHAM ESG REPORT
 
GRI STANDARD/OTHER SOURCE DISCLOSURE PAGE
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 48–50
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 48–50
403-3 Occupational health services 48–50
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 48–50
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 48–50
403-6 Promotion of worker health 48–50
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationships48–50
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 48–50
403-9 Work-related injuries 49
GRI 404: Traininzg and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 51–53© 2022 Graham Packaging
WWW.GRAHAMPACKAGING.COM