2019 
Sustainability Report
DELIVERING MEASURABLE VALUE THROUGH SUSTAINABLE EFFORTS.
CEO Letter  3
About Graham Packaging  4
Key Teams & Benchmarks 5
 Sustainability Council  5
 Sustainability Partnerships  7
 Year-Over-Year Results  8
 Sustainability Benchmarks  9
Our Beliefs  10
 Mission Statement  11
 Pillars of Responsibility  14
 Core Values  15
Our People 16
 Human Resources Strategy  17
 Training & Development  19
 Employee Programs  20
 Community Involvement  22
Our Products  23
 Plastic Packaging Overview  24
 Legislation Summary  25
 Types of Plastic 26
 Minimizing Food Waste  27
 ThermaSet® PET 28
 Ocean-Bound Plastic  29
 Advanced Barrier Technologies  30Our Initiatives 31
 U.S. Recycling Overview 32
 Recycled Content  33
 Graham Recycling Operation  35
 Lightweighting  37
 Customer On-Site & Near-Site Locations  38
Our Operations  39
 Health & Safety  40
 Environmental Management  42
 Materials  44
 Energy Usage  45
 GHG Emissions  47
 Water Consumption & Waste Management  49
Looking Ahead  51
Sources  52
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Table of Contents
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2
Last year, we released our first annual sustainability report where we shared details about our operations and 
initiatives. We also outlined our vision of how Graham will help create a sustainable future through increasing our use  
of post-consumer recycled resin, improving recyclability in all categories and decreasing our carbon footprint. 
This year’s sustainability report focuses on a new message — progress. The goals and initiatives we began in 2018  
have gained momentum, and our team is poised to use that momentum to create positive change throughout our 
company and our communities.
There are three key drivers behind the progress we’ve made this year. Our first and most important driver is customer 
satisfaction. At Graham, we hold to the core value, “Be the partner of choice,” and with that in mind, we constantly  
ask ourselves how we can help our customers meet their sustainability goals.
Thus, we’re working toward incorporating an average of 20% post-consumer resin (PCR) across all bottles by 2025 
while maintaining our standard of 100% recyclability. We’re also finding ways to make ocean-bound plastic and PCR 
broader options for a range of markets, from household and automotive lubricants to food and beverage. 
Our second key driver is Graham benchmarks — internal goals we use to track our progress toward being a leader 
in sustainable packaging. We’re ramping up our R&D efforts, developing innovative processes and leveraging 
technologies that empower employees at all levels of our business to share their ideas. We’ve also focused on tangible, 
day-to-day projects like reducing our energy use across our operations. 
Our last key driver is new regulation. Due to increased demand from consumers for more sustainable packaging, 
federal and state governments have stepped in to propose legislation around the topic. We already work with many 
industry associations with whom we have a mutual commitment to bettering our planet. Through these partnerships 
and driving for continuous improvement in our business, we’re well-positioned to adapt to changing regulations. 
By considering these important factors, we’ve developed an aggressive roadmap that will solidify our place as  
a leader in sustainable packaging solutions. We have our sights set on 2025, and we know we’ll be ready to meet  
the needs of the markets we serve. And in turn, we’ll help our customers be ready, too.
We hope you’ll join us on the road to 2025 — and to a more sustainable future. 
Mike King,  Chief Executive Officer
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO LETTER 3CEO LETTER
Graham Packaging CEO
Message From Mike King
About 
Graham Packaging
As a leading plastic packaging manufacturer, we understand that creating  
the right packaging isn’t just about choosing a color and defining a shape.  
It’s about understanding a product across its entire life cycle.
Our company was founded more than 50 years ago on the idea 
that there had to be a better way to store and use motor oil. 
Through innovation and a dash of imagination, we converted the 
metal oil can into a plastic bottle that made Gulf Oil’s product 
safer, cleaner and lighter for sellers and consumers to use.
Since then, we’ve expanded our offering to deliver innovative, 
sustainable packaging to additional markets, including food, 
beverage, functional nutrition and household. And we’ve built 
a team of dedicated designers, engineers and other packaging 
professionals who are obsessed with solving each industry’s 
biggest packaging challenges.
Our facilities across North America, Asia, Europe and South 
America produce more than 16 billion container units annually. But despite the volume of bottles we produce, our focus is on 
creating tailor-made solutions through close collaboration with 
our customers. We explore new possibilities in packaging — from 
ocean-bound plastic to advanced barrier technologies — to help 
our customers reach their own sustainability goals. 
We’re headquartered in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, with our flagship 
manufacturing facility in nearby York, Pennsylvania, and other 
facilities located throughout the world. In 2011, we were acquired 
by Reynolds Group Holdings, a leading global manufacturer and 
supplier of consumer food and beverage packaging and storage 
products.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT GRAHAM PACKAGING 4ABOUT
Key Functions of Sustainability Council Groups
Energy Council 
To oversee the implementation  
of sustainable energy strategy 
across all Graham locations 
Waste Council 
To explore opportunities to  
reduce waste-into-landfill  
and drive our internal efficiency  
to decrease scrap 
Green Teams  
To develop plans, programs  
and metrics for individual business 
units while acting as ambassadors 
for community initiatives 
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS 5KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS
Sustainability Leadership at Graham
Our Sustainability Council, which is governed by Graham executive leadership, 
oversees our sustainability strategy and works to implement sustainability initiatives 
in our communities and at our facilities across the world. The council is made up of 
several key groups, including our Energy Council, Waste Council and Green Teams. 
We see the adoption of sustainable 
packaging as both a challenge and 
an opportunity — one that must 
be faced openly and responsibly to 
meet the needs of consumers, our 
customers and the environment.
Tracee Auld 
Chief Sustainability Officer
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS 6Our Partnerships
We’re members of several sustainability-focused organizations and together, 
we’re working to promote environmentally responsible behavior and overcome 
the barriers that prevent us from living healthier, more sustainable lives.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS 7KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS
We’re one of the largest plastic manufacturing companies 
that have signed the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New 
Plastics Economy Global Commitment. This commitment will 
bring together all our resources to reduce global waste and 
help our customers reach their sustainability goals by 2025.The Recycling Partnership is an industry-funded, national 
nonprofit organization that leverages corporate funding  
to transform recycling in states, cities and communities.  
We work alongside them in the fight to keep plastic out  
of landfills.
We sit on the APR PET and Olefin Technical 
committees. Our role in this partnership is focused on 
PET and HDPE plastics and how we can help support 
APR membership through the development of 
technical resources, technical studies and education.
We’ve made a commitment to partner with the 
Department of Energy to reduce our energy 
consumption by 25% over the next 10 years.The Sustainable Packaging Coalition® is a leading voice on 
sustainable packaging that focuses on end-to-end sustainability 
initiatives. As part of this organization, we will collaborate with 
other industry leaders and share knowledge to help everyone 
take more meaningful action toward packaging sustainability. 
The PRCC is committed to improving the quality of the 
environment and reducing solid waste through PET beverage 
container recycling. Our primary goals are to increase public 
awareness and recycling rates for PET beverage containers, 
ensure stable end-use markets for all PET collected in California 
and increase the value of PET while reducing collection costs.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS 8KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS
2019 
A Year of Progress
Over the course of 2019, we took key steps toward the sustainability goals 
laid out in our 2018 Sustainability Report. These are just a few highlights 
from the initiatives you’ll learn about in this report.
25%+ 
Ocean-Bound PCR Content in a Single Bottle56% 
Increase in the Use of rPET Content 
65.7 Million
Pounds of HDPE PCR Content Consumed
375 Million
Containers Diverted From Landfills  
by Graham Recycling Operation6%
Overall Reduction in Energy Usage
100%
Renewable Energy Used by  
Two Graham Facilities in Brazil
19.4%
Combined Decrease in Scope 1 & 2 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
96%
Waste Reused or Recycled  
by Lexington, KY, Plant5%  
energy reduction
10%  
average PCR use
25+ 
life-cycle assessments
98%  
recyclability
KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS
Sustainability Benchmarks
Using the momentum from our 2019 progress, we’re 
continuing to work toward a number of targets. 
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY TEAMS & BENCHMARKS 9We believe that 2020 will bring us new opportunities to meet both our 
qualitative and quantitative sustainability goals. These goals include:
•  Reducing energy usage by up to 5% in 2020, as part of an overall  
25% energy reduction by 2028
•  Increasing our use of PCR, including ocean-bound plastic, by incorporating 
an average of 10% PCR in 2020 
•  Conducting more than 25 life-cycle assessments to help communicate  
the value of sustainability to our customers in 2020 
•  Innovating to provide product lightweighting, recyclability, durability  
and reusability
• Continuing to design for recyclability across all products
We’re confident that by continuing to focus on these key sustainability 
benchmarks, as well as smaller community-based initiatives, we can  
help bring positive change in 2020 and beyond.2020 Goals SummaryOur Beliefs
We are committed to minimizing the impact of our 
manufacturing by designing innovative products, creating 
operational and recycling efficiencies, empowering our 
employees to be informed stewards and leading the ongoing 
mission to preserve our planet for future generations.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BELIEFS 10GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BELIEFS 11OUR BELIEFS
A Vision for Sustainability
Delivering Measurable Value
We know it isn’t enough to focus solely on our internal sustainability goals. 
To create meaningful change, we must reach out and create value for our 
customers at every touch point.
We do this by understanding customers’ business needs and working with them to 
develop custom packaging solutions that have the lowest possible environmental 
impact — all without losing sight of the consumer. To formally demonstrate our 
commitment to sustainability, we’ve signed the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s 
New Plastics Economy Global Commitment, pledging to reduce waste and help 
our customers reach their sustainability goals by 2025.
In our drive for excellence, we’ve made sustainability a top priority, and we view 
everything we do through that lens. When developing a new product, it not only 
needs to be a world-class, profitable solution, it must also contribute to our vision 
of a circular economy. When building our team, we look for individuals who share 
our passion for sustainability and who are dedicated to delivering measurable 
value to our customers through partnership and expertise.
We believe that every one of us is part of something bigger — from our families 
and communities to wider society and the global environment in which we live. 
These relationships are interconnected, and any impact on the environment has 
the potential to affect each of us today, tomorrow and in the future.
So, as a packaging company — and more importantly, as human beings — we 
must consider our planet’s future in everything we do, every day. Whether we’re 
shaping a bottle, contracting with a customer, sourcing a new resin or hiring a new 
employee, we believe it’s an investment in our future and the future of our planet.
Our mission is to be 
an industry-leading 
solutions provider for 
sustainable packaging.
Name Here  
Title here
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BELIEFS 12OUR BELIEFS
Mission-Driven Solutions
Creating a Circular Economy
Our mission has always been to provide innovative, environmentally 
responsible packaging that protects and preserves our customers’ products. 
Now, our company — and our industry — has the opportunity to be part of 
a broader solution that extends beyond products to protect our planet.
According to a recent study published in the Journal of 
Sustainability Research , approximately 50% of the growth 
observed in the sampled consumer packaged goods companies 
came from sustainability-marketed products. These findings 
underscore the significance of our sustainability initiatives  
as they relate to our operations, our packaging solutions and 
our communities. 
With every decision we make as a business, we work toward 
the ideal of a circular economy. We have embraced the 
idea that a responsible company must exist and grow in an 
environmentally, socially and economically sustainable way. 
Thus, we hold each of our business units accountable for 
bridging the gap between profitability and the ever-changing 
needs of our planet.
We believe the best way to meet these needs is to reuse valuable, 
finite resources like plastic. That’s why our first — and most 
important — contribution to the circular economy is to collect 
and reuse plastics through vigorous recycling efforts. We’re also 
currently using bio-based plastics, and in the future, we will use 
chemically recycled plastics to further preserve nonrenewable 
resources and to support a circular economy. 
Another important part of our mission is to help educate the 
public on how we can work together to overcome barriers to 
recycling and push for solutions. Our progress toward long-
term goals, like setting recycling quotas and eliminating waste 
to landfill, begins with taking small steps to help create an 
infrastructure that will support a circular economy. By educating 
others and advocating for meaningful change, we can help 
safeguard the future of our planet.
THE SUPPLIER
THE CUSTOMER
RETAILERCONSUMER
Recycling
Best-in-class repurposing eﬀorts that 
work to help save our planet.
Manufacturing
Reduced carbon footprint thanks to 
everything from plant-wide operational 
solutions to an increased use of recycling.Design
Reduced environmental impact through 
innovative packaging solutions.While plastic has proven itself as 
essential for everyday life in so many 
ways, we must recognize that our 
planet’s resources are finite. It’s our 
responsibility to design innovative 
solutions, which minimize environmental 
impact and promote circularity.
Tim Thompson
Chief Technical Officer
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BELIEFS 13GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BELIEFS 14OUR BELIEFS
Pillars of Responsibility
Carrying Out Our Mission
Being informed stewards of the environment requires us to continually 
reexamine our mission and challenge ourselves to view our business holistically 
through the lens of the present moment. But despite our ever-changing industry, 
there are three fundamental pillars of responsibility that remain the foundation 
of our business: social, environmental and economic. When combined, these 
pillars underpin the very basis of a sustainable society and planet.
Social Environmental Economic
 SAFETY  
Maintain and improve on our world-class 
safety record.
EMPLOYEE GROWTH  
Support career development, 
advancement and work-life balance.
DIVERSITY  
Promote inclusion and diversity in our team.
INTEGRITY  
Comply with local laws and regulations, 
maintaining the highest ethical standards.
EDUCATION 
Work to educate our customers, suppliers, 
employees and the public on the 
environmental benefits of plastics, and on 
product recyclability and how to recycle.RECYCLED CONTENT  
Push the boundaries on recycled plastic 
content in our products.
ADVOCACY  
Lead the ongoing environmental  
dialogue on plastic packaging and  
be a constant advocate to increase  
the recycling infrastructure.
PARTNERSHIP 
Deliver on customers’ sustainability goals, 
while helping customers and suppliers 
reduce their environmental footprint.
REDUCED CARBON FOOTPRINT  
Work across our organization to minimize 
our energy and water usage, and to 
achieve zero waste to landfill. DESIGN FOR RECYCLABILITY 
Use shapes, process technology and 
design technology to promote recyclability, 
advocate lightweighting and create 
functional features that minimize the 
environmental impact of our packaging. 
 INNOVATION 
Explore new technologies to reduce 
or eliminate barriers to recyclability, 
chemically recycled plastics and bio-
based plastics.
EFFICIENCY 
Continuously improve our operations 
by reducing our carbon footprint, while 
developing operational initiatives 
that promote more efficient and 
environmentally responsible outcomes.
FREIGHT SOLUTIONS 
Explore freight initiatives that limit 
greenhouse gases by reducing the number 
of trucks and trains needed to move our 
products and material.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR BELIEFS 15OUR BELIEFS
Core Values
While our sustainability vision sets a target, our core values will help us 
reach it. We’ve identified four central principles that guide how we do 
business both internally and externally, and they reflect our passion for 
integrity, innovation and strong working relationships.
Value Our People
Create a safe environment for our team above all. Build our 
organization around a diverse group of innovative people who 
want to make a positive difference and create value for their 
customers. Identify, promote, invest in and reward those who do.
Honor Our Commitments
Act with integrity. Earn the trust of our partners both inside and 
outside the company. Do what we say we will do and deliver 
what we commit to deliver.
Be the Partner of Choice
Strive to be a “destination company” where people want 
to work and with whom customers and suppliers want 
to do business. Be proud, contributing members of the 
communities where we operate.
Drive for Excellence
Hold ourselves to the highest standards and never be 
complacent. Strive for continuous improvement, learning 
from our mistakes and the mistakes of others. Add value  
in everything we do.Our People
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 16
Collaborative. Creative. Committed. Our organization 
is made up of a diverse group of people who leverage 
these key attributes to make a positive difference in the 
workplace and in their communities. By building strong 
relationships and creating value for our customers 
through years of experience, our people embody the 
innovative spirit that’s inherent to Graham Packaging.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 17OUR PEOPLE
We believe that by hiring 
and developing talented 
employees, we can achieve 
a competitive advantage 
through our people.In 2019, we welcomed Lisa Santin to our executive team as our vice president of human 
resources. She has helped us refine our approach to employee engagement and implement 
several strategic initiatives across our company. 
Our human resources strategy emphasizes three key pillars that are built on the foundation 
of our core values. While each of these pillars is backed by a set of ongoing projects, we’ve 
focused our efforts on achieving a few crucial milestones in 2019 that will pave the way for 
an aggress roadmap in 2020. These key milestones include increasing our investment in 
training, defining and rolling out an updated Graham Competency Model and developing 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs).
BE THE PARTNER OF CHOICE
VALUE OUR PEOPLEHONOR OUR COMMITMENTS DRIVE FOR EXCELLENCE
Competitive Advantage 
Through PeopleCreate a culture of engagement and performance
Develop the workforce of the future Optim
ize systems and processesEngagement & Performance
Harnessing Human Potential
Ethics & Compliance
We have a well-developed Ethics & Compliance Program embedded in our company 
culture and supported by our Litmos e-learning platform. We use both Litmos and in-
person training to train all relevant employees on our code of conduct, fraud policies and 
other specific training topics, like anti-corruption, anti-bribery, antitrust and privacy.
By offering this standardized training, we can be sure every employee receives the same 
information. We take ethics and compliance violations seriously, and we strive to handle 
any breach of conduct with the utmost care and professionalism.We focus on culture and professional 
development not just as a way to 
retain talent, but as a way to attract 
people from outside our organization. 
This allows us to build high-performing 
teams who deliver on our commitments 
to employees and customers.
Lisa Santin
VP of Human Resources
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 18GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 19OUR PEOPLE
To attract and retain the best talent, it’s essential for us to create opportunities 
for our employees to grow their skills. Whether an employee holds a leadership 
position or works in an hourly role, they are an important part of the Graham 
team. That’s why we’re committed to identifying, promoting and investing in 
employees who step up.
Training & Development
Fostering Employee Growth
Pay-for-Skills Program
In some of our facilities, we have Pay-for-Skills programs for our hourly employees.  
The benefits of this type of program are twofold. For our employees, it allows them 
to take their career development into their own hands. They are rewarded for their 
motivation to complete training and acquire/validate their skills. For our company, 
it fosters an environment of engaged management and helps us further develop 
our talented employees. This program also gives us a competitive advantage when 
recruiting new talent at our many locations.
Litmos Learning Management System
In 2019, we continued to implement the use of the Litmos Learning Management 
System (LMS) across our company. Already, our team has completed over 40,000 
learning events on about more than 1,200 separate topics. Litmos helps us maximize 
engagement and retention, satisfy facility safety initiatives and ensure legal and 
regulatory compliance. Plus, it allows our employees around the world to take courses  
in their preferred language.
FrontLine Leadership Development and Fundamentals
Our FrontLine Leadership program is a formal education program consisting of an 
instructor-led course or a three-day session with subject matter experts within our 
organization. This program provides all plant leaders who are new to their role or  
new to Graham with the opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of their 
role, including how to drive standardization, reduce cost, build trust and encourage 
involvement at all levels of our business. 
Pay-for-Skills 
PROGRAMGRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 20OUR PEOPLE
Graham Competencies
Reinforcing Our Core Values
To ensure every employee at Graham understands and works 
toward our core values, we’ve identified competencies that — 
when demonstrated — make our team members successful.
We leveraged the world-class Korn Ferry competency library to 
outline the common behaviors, attributes and skills that turn our 
core values into action. From there, we defined the competencies 
team members should aspire to at each level of the organization.  
In 2019, these competencies were incorporated into the 
performance assessment and evaluation process in North America. 
Over the course of 2020, we will add them in multiple languages 
across the 16 countries where Graham employees live and work. 
These competencies have become an integral part of our roadmap 
for employee development and success.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 21OUR PEOPLE
In 2019, we began a new program to help provide support, contribute to the 
professional growth and enhance the career development of our employees. 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are voluntary, employee-led groups designed 
to engage our team in ways that tie into our mission and business goals.
Employee Resource Groups
Promoting Diversity & Inclusivity
So far, Graham has sponsored the launch of two ERGs: Women in Business and Young Professionals. ERGs  
can be started by any employee at Graham and are encouraged to focus on one of three key areas.
Each ERG leadership team, which is made up of an executive sponsor, ERG chairperson, 
ERG cochair and human resources advisor, must develop a charter that clearly outlines its 
purpose, goals and objectives. Upon approval of the charter, the leadership team engages 
employees and encourages them to become actively involved with the group.
By offering organizational support to ERGs that exemplify our company mission and 
enhance the employee experience, we’re building a solid foundation of engaged employees 
across our global locations.
Employee  
Development
Providing networking opportunities, 
leadership roles, managerial support and 
career developmentCommunity  
Outreach
Working to enhance and strengthen 
community involvement where we live 
and operate through the leadership of 
volunteer initiativesWorkforce  
Development
Assisting with recruitment, retention 
and talent development by sharing 
knowledge and improving Graham’s 
cultural competence
1 2 3GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 22OUR PEOPLE
As a global company, we’re fortunate to be able to make a difference in 
communities around the world. Each Graham location participates in a range of 
charitable giving and volunteer initiatives throughout the year. By volunteering 
our time and resources, we promote sustainable living, encourage community 
partnerships and help better the lives of those in need. See what our teams have 
been up to in their local communities.
Community Involvement 
Making a Local Impact
788 LBS. OF TRASH
Collected During Coastal Cleanup Days$11,342 
Raised for United Way
300  STOCKINGS 
Stuffed for Deployed Soldiers and Veterans in Need164 ITEMS
Donated to Veterans Through Mr. Sandy’s Veteran Drive
2,110 TOYS
Gathered for Toys for Tots & Shriners  
Children’s Hospital120 COATS 
Collected for Coat-A-Kid
340 LBS. OF PET FOOD 
Collected for Presents for PetsOur Products
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 23
The packaging we make helps popular brands deliver their goods in 
a safe, convenient way. From highly creative designs to innovative 
childproofing options and everything in between, our team will 
envision and produce a customized solution that exceeds expectations.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 24OUR PRODUCTS
When used responsibly, plastic packaging has the power to reduce pollution, 
decrease energy use and lead to a smaller carbon footprint — especially 
when compared to other forms of packaging available today.
Plastic Packaging
Focusing on Responsible Use
These benefits are possible, but only if we work together to change the way we 
manufacture and dispose of this valuable, finite resource. Today, consumers are calling 
for more sustainable packaging. Companies like us are exploring revolutionary new resins 
and manufacturing processes. And some countries have instituted bans or taxes on certain 
types of plastics to help combat ocean pollution and to promote recyclable alternatives. 
While these actions call needed attention to growing environmental concerns, they can 
also have unanticipated side effects, like increased costs for retailers, manufacturers and 
even consumers. As a plastic packaging manufacturer, we must work to overcome these 
challenges through sound problem-solving and creative thinking.
Plastic alternatives can also present their own set of challenges. Glass, for example,  
is considered by some to be more eco-friendly but breakage can lead to increased waste 
and an increased carbon footprint. Likewise, the energy involved in producing glass,  
as well as the freight and fuel costs of shipping this heavy material, add to a company’s 
overall carbon footprint. 
On the other hand, plastic packaging brings many end-to-end benefits, including more 
convenience, a reduced carbon footprint and lower prices. PET and HDPE are common, 
easily recycled plastics. Both are lightweight, durable and offer design flexibility not found 
in other materials. Plus, because of their reduced weight and size, PET and HDPE products 
can be transported in higher volumes on fewer trucks.  
Plastic packaging has the potential to be the most sustainable solution on the market — 
one that helps create a circular economy where valuable resources are conserved rather 
than wasted. We believe that through continuing innovation, designing for recyclability 
and fostering better recycling habits, we can contribute to bringing this vision to life.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 25OUR PRODUCTS
With increased demand from all quarters for better recycling 
infrastructure and more sustainable packaging, federal and state 
governments are wrestling with how to address key concerns.
New Legislation
Establishing a Path Forward
Globally, there has been a lot of legislative activity 
around waste management and recycling. In the U.S., 
many laws focused on materials that are more difficult 
to recycle — like plastic bags, polystyrene and plastic 
straws — have passed at the state, county and city 
levels. Several states and even the federal government 
have also attempted to address some of the broader 
recycling infrastructure issues. While many of these 
bills have concentrated on plastic packaging, others 
have had a wider focus on all packaging.
Two common themes running through the various 
legislation are recyclability and recycled content, or 
PCR. At a high level, the proposed recyclability laws 
set a minimum percentage of packaging that must 
be recyclable, or capable of being recycled. In some 
cases, this legislation seeks to require proof that a 
certain amount of the packaging is being recycled.   
The proposed recycled content laws generally impose 
a minimum percentage of PCR that must be included 
in packaging in the future. 
Most of the draft bills are framework in nature 
and leave many finer details to future regulations. 
However, one aspect that appears in nearly 
every piece of legislation is the development of 
producer responsibility organizations (PROs). These 
organizations are authorized and/or financed by a 
group of producers — or brands — to take on the 
responsibility of collecting and managing product 
waste for the producers within the group.Another concept that shows up in the bills is a call for 
extended producer responsibility (EPR) programs. 
This type of program helps contribute to a circular 
economy by requiring producers to be responsible for 
the treatment or disposal of post-consumer products 
rather than relying on consumers to dispose of 
products properly .
At the time this report was written, many of these bills 
were gaining traction and some were even passed, 
only to be vetoed later. In the current COVID-19 
environment, the bills that are now up for debate 
may not pass as our government, businesses and 
communities focus on the immediate pandemic. 
Despite this delay, it’s expected that these bills and 
others will return next year. 
At Graham, we are well-positioned to help our 
customers meet any new or evolving legislative 
requirements. Most of our packaging portfolio  
is already fully recyclable, and we can include  
high amounts of PCR in our containers. From  
our perspective, we welcome the challenge to  
make our packaging as sustainable as possible,  
and we’re committed to meeting new regulations  
as they come up.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 26OUR PRODUCTS
In 2019, we processed more than 450 million pounds of PET resin and more than 600 million 
pounds of HDPE resin across our global facilities. We also experimented with innovative new 
resins made from potato starch, sugarcane and other bio-based materials. 
Our Capabilities
Producing Innovative, Sustainable Packaging
Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET)
PET is widely used for packaging foods, beverages and 
cleaning products. It’s also an approved material for use in 
pharmaceutical applications because it’s resistant to the growth 
of microorganisms and biological degradation. This strong, clear, 
lightweight material reduces shipping costs, increases energy 
efficiency and nearly eliminates the danger of breakage. Bottle-
grade PET is one of the common plastics we use, and in 2019, we 
processed more than 450 million pounds of PET resin across our 
global facilities.
Biodegradable Resins
Biodegradable resin is plastic that is actively metabolized by 
microorganisms like bacteria when left in the natural environment. 
Potato starch containers are one example. Although we’ve 
experimented with biodegradable resins and will continue to  
do so, biodegradable resins are not yet a viable alternative. 
As such, our preference is to enable virgin polymers to be 
used as many times as possible via recycling and through the 
management of our internal scrap, whether the polymer is from 
fossil fuels (nonrenewable) or bio-based materials (renewable). High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE)
HDPE is used for a range of packaging, from gallons of milk to 
jugs of laundry detergent. Thanks to its high strength-to-density 
ratio, HDPE is ideal for packaging heavy liquids while keeping 
transportation costs low. HDPE can be sterilized by boiling, and it 
naturally resists mold, microorganisms, acids and even chemicals. 
This material is also highly malleable for more design flexibility. 
Bottle-grade HDPE is another common plastic we use, and in 
2019, we processed more than 600 million pounds of HDPE resin 
across our global facilities. 
Bio-Based Resins
Bio-based resins are derived either partially or completely from 
renewable raw materials that undergo a chemical reaction to 
create a new synthetic material. They take the place of traditional 
resins, like polyester, epoxy and polyurethane. We’re continuing 
to research and experiment with bio-based resins that do not 
compete with the food chain and have used them in some of our 
operations in the past. GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 27OUR PRODUCTS
High Impact
Reducing Food Waste 
With Plastic Packaging
Every year, approximately one-third of all food produced in the world  
for human consumption is lost or wasted. In fact, if food waste were its  
own country, it would be the third largest emitting country in the world . 
The U.S. economy alone loses more than $200 billion every year to food waste . This 
large volume of waste affects not just the world’s food supply, but also the supply of 
critical resources. Making and distributing food requires so many natural resources, 
including water, land and fuel. When that food is wasted, all the resources that went 
into its production and distribution are wasted as well.
While food waste may seem like a problem independent of plastic packaging, these 
two key issues are closely intertwined. Plastic packaging helps mitigate food waste by 
preserving perishable foods, lengthening their shelf life and reducing product loss due 
to breakage. This helps not only consumers and the average household to save money 
and waste less, but retail and food-service businesses as well. In fact, the American 
Chemistry Council (ACC) estimates that a 10-20% reduction in food waste would save 
retail business and U.S. households a combined $20 million annually .
Did you know throughout its life cycle, food production 
emits nearly  13% of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the U.S. ?  
Additionally, when food takes up space in a landfill, it 
releases methane as it decomposes, which is 21 times 
more potent than CO2.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 28OUR PRODUCTS
New Possibilities in Packaging  
PET as an Alternative to Glass
Glass has traditionally been used to package food and 
beverage items that must undergo high-heat sterilization 
techniques, like pickles, tomato sauce and fresh juice.  
However, advancements in PET technology have helped  
plastic emerge not only as a more sustainable replacement  
for glass but also as a benefit-rich solution.
Like glass, PET promotes longer shelf life and offers a clear view of the product 
packaged within it. It also works with metal lug, metal CT closures, can ends and 
plastic closures, making it a drop-in solution for most fill lines. When used and 
disposed of responsibly, PET packaging can also lead to reduced pollution and lower 
energy usage than other forms of packaging available today.
At Graham, we’ve developed ThermaSet® PET, which can be used in place of glass 
in challenging hot fill, retort and pasteurized applications. We conducted a life-cycle 
assessment of this material, comparing our 28-oz. PET pasta sauce jar with a 28-oz. 
glass jar.
This life-cycle assessment found that PET offered the following benefits over glass:
• Virtually eliminated breakage, which reduced production downtime and product loss
• Reduced shipping weight by up to 30% for freight savings
• Used less energy from production through to end-of-life disposal
• Allowed more design flexibility without impacting recyclability
This peer-reviewed study also calculated the environmental impact of manufacturing 
the jars, caps and packaging materials, shipping the jars to their filling locations, 
filling the jars with pasta sauce, shipping the filled jars to grocery stores and 
disposing of unrecycled jars in landfills. It found that over multiple environmental 
impact categories, ThermaSet PET jars had a lower impact on the environment  
than glass jars.16%  
less energy
93%  
fewer air particulates
55%  
reduction in smog emissions
38%  
smaller carbon footprintQuantifying the Sustainability  
of ThermaSet PET With Life-Cycle 
Assessment*
*Results from critically reviewed, ISO 14044 LCA Study 
comparing ThermaSet PET jars to glass jars.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 29OUR PRODUCTS
New Possibilities in Packaging  
Collecting and Reusing Ocean-Bound Plastic
Ocean-bound plastic is plastic waste that is at risk of polluting our oceans. 
It’s usually collected along waterways, like rivers and lakes, from at-risk 
zones near the coastline. This recycled raw material can be integrated  
into a range of product packaging.
It’s estimated that 8 million metric tons of plastic  goes into the ocean every year, but by 
collecting and reusing ocean-bound plastic, we can help drastically reduce that number 
and contribute to a cleaner, healthier planet.
As of 2019, we have the capability to source and produce ocean-bound plastic at the 
Graham Recycling Operation, and we have sampled bottles using 25% ocean-bound 
PCR. We offer food-grade and non-food-grade packaging solutions that incorporate 
ocean-bound PCR, and to help maximize its value to our customers, we’re exploring 
blending options that combine regular PCR with ocean-bound PCR. We can run  
ocean-bound plastic PCR in both single-layer and multilayer bottles today. 
Any of our production lines 
that use standard PCR 
today have the capability to 
use ocean-bound PCR, too.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PRODUCTS 30OUR PRODUCTS
Traditionally, materials like glass and aluminum have been used to package products 
that need extra protection from oxygen exposure to maintain their optimal shelf 
life. However, as preferences continue to shift toward the use of more sustainable 
packaging, these traditional materials are less desirable due to their increased 
production cost, potential for breakage and high carbon footprint.
Advanced Barrier Technologies
Emerging technologies, specifically barrier technologies that 
prevent gases from permeating a material, have made plastic 
a viable replacement in these applications. Many large brands 
now use plastic packaging with passive or active oxygen barrier 
technology. This ensures products like meat, juice, wine and 
other sensitive foods are protected for the duration of their 
accepted shelf life. 
By using plastic packaging with a barrier technology, brands 
reap the benefits of plastic — such as convenience, lower 
costs, less breakage, reduced packaging weight — without 
compromising the safety of their products.Barrier Technology at Graham
There are several solutions available for our customers that 
enhance the light, moisture, CO 2 and oxygen barrier properties 
in every type of plastic container we make. The first solution is an 
oxygen scavenger for mono-barrier containers, including containers 
made with recycled PET. This type of barrier plays a pivotal role  
in increasing the lifespan of products, while preventing rancidity  
in oils and fats, inhibiting discoloration and preserving taste. 
We also offer a multilayer PET option that meets the Association 
of Plastic Recyclers’ critical guidelines. This advanced barrier 
technology has several benefits, including: 
• Suitability for cold-fill and hot-fill products 
• Glass-like clarity 
• Excellent gas barrier properties, such as O 2, CO 2 and water vapor 
Another solution available to our customers that meets the 
Association of Plastic Recyclers’ critical guidelines is our multilayer 
EVOH polyolefin. Not only is this solution resistant to chemicals, oils 
and vapors, but it’s also safe for use in recyclable and recoverable 
products to help companies reduce waste. In addition, it meets FDA 
and USDA requirements for use with meat and poultry products.
Using advanced barrier technologies, we provide our customers 
with plastic packaging options that safeguard quality and shelf life. 
As our industry evolves, we will continue to develop new solutions 
designed to keep products safe.Our Initiatives
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 31
For us, sustainability is about thinking globally and acting locally. 
We constantly ask ourselves what we can do to make things better 
for our customers, our community and the world. It’s clear that it will 
take a collective effort to preserve our planet for future generations, 
and we’ll continue to support that effort in every way possible.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 32OUR INITIATIVES
Recycling is a large-scale undertaking that requires buy-in from a range of 
participants, from the government and large brands to waste management facilities 
and U.S. households. Over the past 30 years, the modern U.S. curbside recycling system 
has collected millions of recyclables throughout the nation, helping to protect the 
environment, lower the nation’s carbon footprint and create thousands of jobs.
US Recycling: Working Together  
on a Pathway to Change
But despite these positive benefits, 
there are still many challenges facing 
the system. First, the cost of processing 
recyclables has increased dramatically 
in the past few years, with many local 
communities paying more to recycle their 
waste than they would to send it to a 
landfill. Lack of equal access to recycling 
is another challenge. Just half of the 
American public has access to recycling, 
and of those who do, many choose to 
participate only sometimes or not at all.Material contamination is also a concern 
because it makes processing recycled 
items more difficult and costly. In its 
State of Curbside Recycling report , The 
Recycling Partnership found that the 
average rate of inbound contamination 
across all types of recycling programs 
studied was 16.9%, a number that shows 
there’s room for improvement to ensure 
the waste stream provides the biggest 
return on investment.The last challenge the recycling system 
faces is a lack of centralized data and 
decision-making. With stakeholders at the 
federal, state, local and even consumer 
level, recycling program data is seldom 
consistently captured and reported. 
These entities must all work together to 
measure and improve these programs for 
meaningful change to occur.
Although these challenges may be difficult to overcome in the short term, there are 
many organizations, brands and communities already taking steps to mitigate them. 
The U.S. recycling system, when realized to its fullest potential, can deliver a myriad 
of environmental and economic benefits beyond the collection and reuse of valuable 
materials. 
According to The Recycling Partnership, if all 37.4 million tons of single-family 
recyclables were recycled rather than landfilled, it would result in:
•  A reduction in U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by 96 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalent
•  The conservation of an annual energy equivalent of 154 million barrels of oil
•  The creation of 370,000 full-time equivalent jobs
•  The elimination of the equivalent of 20 million cars off U.S. highways
With these benefits in mind, it’s clear that we must work together toward the creation 
and widespread use of a more robust recycling system. The challenges we’re facing 
are not insurmountable, and by working together toward a better recycling system 
today, we’re taking steps toward the vision of a circular economy for the future.
Room for Growth in the   
US Recycling System
•  Just 32% of available recyclables from 
single-family homes are collected.
•  Only 50%  of the public has guaranteed 
access to curbside recycling.
•  Recycling is more expensive  than 
landfilling trash in some communities.
•  An average of 16.9%  of inbound 
recycling material is contaminated.
•  Coordinated efforts  among the 
government, large companies and 
consumers are required.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 33OUR INITIATIVES
One of the best ways to keep plastic out of landfills and  
out of the oceans is to recycle it so it can be used to create 
another plastic product.
Plus, many shoppers today feel a personal responsibility to prevent plastics from 
negatively impacting the environment. This leads them to buy products labeled as 
“recyclable,” “made from recycled materials” and “easier to recycle.” 
However, to make packaging that can truly claim it’s “made from recycled materials,” 
manufacturers need access to large volumes of recycled content. This can be difficult 
to find when much of the plastic produced today ends up in landfills rather than at a 
recycling center. That’s where the circular economy comes in — as consumer recycling 
rates climb, so does the amount of recycled content available to manufacturers, who 
can then use it to make new products for consumers.Recycled Content
Reusing Valuable Resources
13%   
Recycled 
17%  
Combusted With Energy Recovery 70%  
Landfilled 2017 Management Pathways for Plastic Containers 
& Packaging in the US (PET & HDPE)*GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 34OUR INITIATIVES
We have advanced technologies that allow us to make bottles with various 
percentages of recycled content. Our development team works with customers 
to determine the best way to meet their needs for recycled content. We have 
supplied customers with packaging containing anywhere from 10% to 100% 
recycled materials, including ocean-bound recycled materials. Plus, most 
packages we produce have some level of post-industrial recycled content that 
comes from our in-plant regrind material.
Recycled Content at Graham Packaging
Recycled Polyethylene Terephthalate (rPET)
Bottle-grade PET is a popular and valuable recycled material. 
The cost of post-consumer recycled PET (rPET) can vary widely 
depending on where in the process the content is sourced. It may 
come from scrapped bottles, flake or even reprocessed pellets, 
but the more consistent the color and performance of the PET, 
the higher the cost. 
In 2019, we consumed roughly 11.9 million pounds of recycled PET, 
and we expect that number to increase significantly by 2025. Our 
goal is that 100% of our packaging be recycled back into bottles 
or recovered for use in other plastic products. Recycled High-Density Polyethylene (rHDPE)
HDPE is also a popular and valuable recycled material. We can 
incorporate a significant amount of recycled HDPE (rHDPE) into 
any bottle we make. In 2019, we used approximately 65.7 million 
pounds of HDPE post-consumer resin. Of that total, roughly 
41.9 million pounds were sourced from our Graham Recycling 
Operation. In addition, our plants were able to reuse 17.2 million 
pounds of regrind which are rejected parts that we can reclaim.
Nearly every package we 
produce contains some 
level of recycled content.
Recycling Goals 
100%  
of our packaging recyclable 
or recovered
20%  
average PCR incorporated 
across all products by 2025GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 35OUR INITIATIVES
In 2019, the Graham Recycling Operation processed roughly 
41.1 million pounds of post-consumer material using our 
best-in-class recycling methods. We also reused 17.2 million 
pounds of post-industrial bottle flake across all segments 
within our company.
The Graham Recycling Operation, which recycles #2 HDPE 
bottles into PCR, is one of the largest plastic recycling facilities 
in the northeastern U.S. The benefits of having our own 
recycling operation are twofold. Not only has it helped the 
packaging side of our business become one of the largest 
suppliers of bottle-grade recycled plastic containers in 
North America, but it’s also enabled our facility to be more 
sustainable. By diverting plastic from landfills, our recycling 
facility helps us save energy and natural resources, as well as 
substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition to our own recycling operation, we use a 
network of recyclers to meet the needs of our customers. 
This network enables us to adapt to fluctuations in 
customer and consumer demands, as well as prevent 
material shortages if severe weather occurs. Annually, 
this network enables us to use an additional 24.5 million 
pounds of recycled content and helps us minimize the 
impact of transportation. Graham Recycling Operation
Reusing Valuable Materials
41.1 Million Pounds  
post-consumer material processed
17.2 Million Pounds  
post-industrial bottle flake reused
2019 Recycling Operation EffortsIn 2019, the efforts at the Graham 
Recycling Operation resulted in 
approximately 375 million plastic 
containers being kept out of landfills.
Keith Strohschein
Director of Operations, Materials
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE 36SPOTLIGHT ON  
Oil Bottle Lightweighting
When a major motor oil company came 
to us with the goal of reducing the 
weight of their packaging, we accepted 
the challenge. Lightweighting efforts 
like this one can lead to overall cost 
reductions, energy savings and improved 
sustainability.
Our team proposed a plan to reduce the 
weight of their existing HDPE container 
by 10%. This 10% reduction in weight 
saves them nearly eight million KWh of 
electricity annually, a number equivalent 
to 888 homes’ electricity usage for a year
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 37OUR INITIATIVES
Through our lightweighting initiatives, we’ve delivered up to a 
35% decrease in the weight of a plastic container — without 
impacting its performance.
When our customers come to us with concerns about warehousing and shipping heavy 
products, our team gets to work. Our designers and production engineers collaborate 
closely to find ways to help our customers meet their goals without sacrificing the 
performance and quality of their packaging over its life cycle.
In recent years, we’ve lightweighted both PET and HDPE packaging to help offset the 
monetary and environmental costs our customers face, including fuel consumption, 
raw material use, water consumption and energy usage. Lightweighting products also 
lowers the carbon footprint of organizations across the entire supply chain.
While many may think of lightweighting as taking an existing plastic container and 
redesigning it to reduce the overall weight of the packaged item, it can also mean 
replacing other packaging materials with plastic. One example of an advancement 
that enables replacement lightweighting is ThermaSet®, which allows PET containers 
to replace glass in challenging hot fill, pasteurized and retort processes. A product 
like ThermaSet PET significantly reduces a packaged product’s weight, lowering 
transportation costs and fuel usage while remaining fully recyclable.Lightweighting
Reducing Fuel and  
Material Costs
10%  
weight reduction
8 Million KWh  
electricity savedGRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR INITIATIVES 38OUR INITIATIVES
Customer on-site or near-site locations provide value through freight savings, 
operational efficiency, flexible technologies and other benefits. It also allows us 
to reduce our carbon footprint and the carbon footprints of our customers.
One out of every three Graham plants is strategically  
positioned near or inside our customers’ filling facilities.On-Site & Near-Site Locations
Benefiting Our Customers  
and the Environment
NEARBY GRAHAM  
PLANT
CUSTOMER FACILITY + GRAHAM’S PLANTCUSTOMER  
FACILITYBenefits of Close Operation
• Freight Savings
• Reduced Inventory 
• Operational Efficiency
• Energy Savings
• Recycling Opportunities
• Flexible Technologies
• Lower Carbon Footprint
• Increased ProductionOur Operations
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 39
Accountability isn’t just something we talk about at Graham 
Packaging. It’s something we practice every day. As a plastic packaging 
manufacturer, we have a responsibility to constantly find new ways to 
reduce the environmental impact of our facilities. It starts with keeping 
people safe. It continues when those same people believe in our mission 
and carry it beyond the workplace into their everyday lives.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 40OUR OPERATIONS
We believe that everything we do, every day, should be built on 
the foundations of safe working conditions, healthy habits and 
sustainable operation. That’s why our strategic plan puts our team’s 
welfare above all other metrics, including cost and productivity.
To become a world leader in environmental health, safety and 
sustainability, we know we must bring safety into conversations 
across all levels of our organization. Our leaders empower their  
teams to stay engaged, holding themselves and others accountable 
for proactively staying safe on the job. As a team, we continually 
monitor behaviors and assess potential risks, while also taking time  
to celebrate when we achieve important safety milestones.
Health & Safety Goals
World-class environmental health and safety programs like ours do 
more than keep people safe. They also drive operational efficiencies, 
differentiate us from competitors, reduce costs and boost morale. 
Thus, we’ve identified six key areas of focus that will help us remain  
a leader in this area through 2020 and beyond.
•  Reduce injuries and avoid high-risk tasks by focusing on key  
safety must-haves
•  Develop structured problem-solving skills, including root cause 
analysis and corrective actions
•  Focus on behavior-based safety programs to improve awareness 
and accountability
•  Ensure environmental compliance through updated policies, training 
and initiatives
•  Deploy return-to-work strategies after extended employee absences
•  Enhance contractor safety through scope-of-work reviews, audits 
and performance evaluationsHealth & Safety
Protecting Our Greatest Asset
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 41OUR OPERATIONS
SPOTLIGHT ON  
Peer-to-Peer Accountability
Employee engagement is one of the 
biggest factors in our safety success, 
so we developed the peer-to-peer 
accountability program. This program 
trains our employees to recognize risk 
and start a conversation anytime they 
witness an unsafe behavior or condition. 
Because these conversations can be had 
anonymously, this program allows our 
employees to be completely transparent 
without fear of repercussions.
Our leadership team then turns these 
peer-to-peer reported incidents into 
training topics that can help workers 
across our organization learn from each 
other’s mistakes. Through this program, 
we encourage every Graham employee 
to learn something new while being 
accountable to themselves, to each other 
and to our company.
0.390.51
0.300.400.500.600.700.800.901.001.101.20
Jun 14
Aug 14
Oct 14
Dec 14
Feb 15
Apr 15
Jun 15
Aug 15
Dec 15Oct 15
Feb 16
Apr 16
Jun 16
Aug 16
Oct 16
Dec 16
Feb 17
Apr 17
Jun 17
Aug 17
Oct 17
Dec 17
Feb 18
Apr 18
Jun 18
Aug 18
Oct 18
Dec 18
Feb 19
Apr 19
Jun 19
Aug 19
Oct 19
Dec 19
Feb 20
Apr 20Total Recordable Incident Rate
Rolling 12-Month TRR Rolling 24-Month TRRTOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATESafety by the Numbers at Graham
Our total recordable incident rate has seen a significant drop since 2014. 
As of May 2020, our rolling 12-month total recordable incident rate was 
0.39 and our rolling 24-month total recordable incident rate was 0.51. 
This dropping incident rate reflects our core values and demonstrates 
that we’ve made safety a top priority. By continuing to build on our safety 
culture, we can keep employees safe, mitigate risk and boost morale. GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 42OUR OPERATIONS
In 2018, we reported our baseline — a starting point on our journey to more  
sustainable operations. This year, we’re not only reporting on the progress  
we’ve made, but also identifying our goals for 2020 and beyond. Our focus remains  
on lowering our energy, water and material usage, further reducing our waste to 
landfill and increasing our use of PCR. In the pages that follow, you’ll see specific 
examples of how we’re working toward these goals across all our facilities.
Environmental Management
Operating for a More Sustainable Future
Sustainable Manufacturing Goals
Design for Recyclability
Enable 100% of our bottles to be recycled or reused
Reduce Energy Usage
Cut our energy consumption by at least 5% in 2020
Communicate Our Value
Complete 25+ life-cycle assessments that focus  
on sustainabilityIncrease the Use of PCR
Incorporate an average of 20% PCR across all 
products by 2025We strive to create and implement manufacturing 
methods by using a process that focuses on 
consistency. Our process — called the Graham 
Operating System — standardizes the way 
we manufacture our products, measure plant 
performance, drive accountability and reduce waste 
throughout our entire supply chain.
Herm Koch
VP of Global Operations
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 43GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 44OUR OPERATIONS
In 2019, the total volume of primary resins used globally at Graham was over 1 billion 
pounds. More than 90% of this resin was consumed in North America. We also used 
more PCR content across our North American facilities over the past year. Between 2018 
and 2019, we increased our use of HDPE PCR by 4.3% and our use of PET PCR by 56%. 
This increase has allowed us to create more sustainable packaging for our customers. 
Measurable Results in Materials
NEW SOLUTIONS IN OCEAN-BOUND PLASTIC
As of 2019, we’ve sampled bottles at higher percentages of ocean-bound PCR, and any 
line in our facilities that is currently able to handle standard PCR can also use ocean-
bound PCR. We can run single-layer and multilayer bottles using this material, and we 
offer both food-grade and non-food-grade packaging solutions that incorporate it. 
To help maximize the value of ocean-bound PCR to our customers, we’re continuing to 
explore blending options that combine regular PCR with ocean-bound PCR.  
INCREASED USE OF PCR
We’re committed to the use of PCR — both standard and ocean-bound — in 
our products. It’s our goal that by 2025, an average of 20% PCR content will be 
incorporated across the bottles we make. We’ve also continued to explore chemical 
recycling and other emerging technologies that will help us create more sustainable 
packaging solutions using this valuable resource. KEY BENCHMARKS
TYPE OF RESIN 2018 2019 % INCREASE
HDPE PCR of Total HDPE 12.09% 12.61% 4.3%
PET PCR of Total PET & EPET 2.22% 3.62% 56%Materials
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 45OUR OPERATIONS
We track three main sources of energy within our operation: electrical power, natural 
gas and propane. In 2019, electrical power accounted for 90% of our energy use, with the 
combination of natural gas and propane making up the other 10%. The total amount of 
energy consumed that came from nonrenewable sources equaled 1.6 billion MWh.
Energy intensity is considered the amount of energy consumption divided by the 
total pounds of product produced. When taking all our facilities into account in North 
America, Europe, South America and Asia, we use 1.08 KWh of energy for every one 
pound of bottle we produce.KEY BENCHMARKS
2018 2019 % REDUCTION
Absolute Energy Consumed 1,234,859 MWh 1,160,482 MWh 6%
Energy Consumption per One 
Pound of Bottle Produced1.19 KWh 1.08 KWh 9.2%Energy Usage
ENERGY ( MWh ) NORTH AMERICA EUROPE SOUTH AMERICA TOTAL
Electricity 945,077.07 54,048.56 39,358.63 1,038,484.26 
Natural Gas 91,727.48 2,393.80 — 94,121.28 
Propane 27,876.56 — — 27,876.56 SPOTLIGHT ON  
The Better Plants Program
Last year, we joined the U.S. Department 
of Energy’s Better Plants Program and 
committed to reducing our energy usage 
by 25% over 10 years. From 2018 to 2019, 
we saw a 6% reduction in our energy 
usage in North America. We plan to 
reduce our energy usage by another 5% 
in 2020.
In December 2019, our Evansville, IN, and 
Tolleson, AZ, plants also participated 
in an energy treasure hunt as part of 
this program. An energy treasure hunt 
brings together a cross-functional team 
to identify low-cost and no-cost actions 
to reduce energy consumption. Through 
this event, our teams found efficiencies 
that will reduce our energy usage by 8.1 
million KWh per year.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 46OUR OPERATIONS
Measurable Results in Energy
REDUCTION IN AIR LEAKS
Compressed air is a vital component of most factory environments, and leaks can cause 
major setbacks to industrial plants. In fact, when an air compressor leaks, it can waste 
as much as 20% to 30% of its output . If a leak goes undetected, it can lead to high 
repair costs and less productivity. It takes eight horsepower of electricity to produce 
one horsepower worth of work with compressed air. It’s one of the most expensive utility 
items in a manufacturing environment, and unfortunately, leaks are common.
To address this, we’ve implemented an air leak program with engineers working to 
identify and remedy leaks before they become a larger issue. In 2019, this program 
identified 23 million KWh’s worth of wasted energy due to air leaks. When these air 
leaks were corrected, we saw an energy savings of 14 million KWh.
LIGHTING AND ELECTRICITY EFFICIENCIES
Our Racine, WI, plant is working to decrease their overall energy usage through several 
initiatives. First, they’ve installed new LED lighting throughout the production floor, 
warehouse, office and outdoor spaces. These lights feature smart controls to take 
advantage of natural light during daylight hours. They can also be controlled via timers 
and organized into groups so larger light banks are controlled together.
In addition to lighting and HVAC upgrades, this facility now staggers its line start times 
after a weekend to reduce the strain on the electrical grid and alleviate peak demand 
charges. They’ve also updated their conveyors on each of their eight production lines to 
shut down automatically when they aren’t moving bottles.
RENEWABLE ENERGY USE
Since 2018, two of our plants in Brazil have operated using power from 100% renewable 
sources like wind energy. Our Duque de Caxias plant that supplies a large motor oil 
company saw a 670-ton reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, while our Poços de 
Caldas plant that works with a large food manufacturer saw a 764-ton reduction in 
greenhouse gas emissions. By changing our energy sources and reducing our emissions 
output, we’re contributing to cleaner, healthier air.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 47OUR OPERATIONS
KEY BENCHMARKS
2018 2019 % REDUCTION
MT OF CO 2e IN SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS 26,022.37  22,591.12  13.2%
MT OF CO 2e IN SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS 489,684  459,477 6.2%Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)
In 2019, our scope 1 emissions totaled  
22,591 MT of CO 2e, while our scope 2 
emissions totaled 459,477 MT of CO 2e.  
This is a reduction of 13.2% and 6.2%, 
respectively, between 2018 and 2019.
We recognize that climate change is real, 
and as the global community begins to 
think strategically about how to combat this 
complex issue, we’re taking steps to measure 
and report on a big contributing factor: 
greenhouse gas emissions.
Gases like carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous 
oxide and fluorinated gases are called 
greenhouse gases because they trap heat in 
Earth’s atmosphere.Larger concentrations of these gases in 
the atmosphere are the result of larger 
emissions, often from manufacturing 
facilities. 
Carbon dioxide is the most common 
greenhouse gas, making up 81.3% of all CO 2 
emissions in 2018 . It enters the atmosphere 
primarily through the burning of fossil fuels 
but also through certain chemical reactions.
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol regulates 
the release of these gases by providing 
standards, guidance and training to help 
businesses manage their GHG emissions. 
They’ve classified these emissions into three 
main types: scopes 1, 2 and 3. THREE SCOPES OF GHG EMISSIONS
Scope 1:  Direct emissions from owned  
or controlled sources
 Scope 2:  Indirect emissions from the 
generation of purchased energy
 Scope 3:  All indirect emissions present  
in the value chain of the company
SF6CH4HFCs CO2N2O PFCs
Stationary SourcesVehicle and 
Equipment
Fugitive EmmissionsOn-site Landfills and 
Wastewater T reatment
Purchased SteamPurchased Heating
Purchased CoolingPurchased Electricity
Contracted Solid Waste 
and WastewaterEmployee Commuting
T ransmission and 
Distribution LossesBusiness Air T ravelCommon Sources of Greenhouse Gas EmissionsGRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 48OUR OPERATIONS
Measurable Results in Greenhouse Gas Emissions
LIGHTWEIGHTING
Projects like lightweighting allow more product to be shipped in 
one truck, reducing the number of trucks needed to transport the 
same amount of product and thus lowering GHG emissions from 
the burning of fuel.
DIVERTING PLASTICS FROM LANDFILLS
Our Graham Recycling Operation recycles #2 HDPE bottles into 
post-consumer resin. This facility used approximately 41 million 
pounds of recycled material in 2019, diverting approximately  
375 million plastic containers from landfills.
DEVELOPING LESS CARBON-INTENSIVE PRODUCTS
Our ThermaSet® heat-set process allows PET containers to be 
used in hot fill, pasteurized and retort processes in place of glass 
containers. When comparing the end-to-end production of 
ThermaSet PET jars versus glass jars, PET jars had a 210-kg CO 2e 
reduction in carbon footprint.
CUSTOMER ON-SITE AND NEAR-SITE LOCATION
Operating on or near customer locations takes the transportation 
factor out altogether, allowing us to improve collaboration with our 
customers while saving valuable resources.
REDUCED ENERGY USAGE
In 2019, we reduced our energy usage by 6%, with plans to reduce that 
metric by an additional 5% in 2020. This is all part of our commitment 
to lowering our energy usage by 25% over the next 10 years as part of 
the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Plants Program.
50%  
less than aluminum cans
75%  
less than glass bottlesHow do the GHG emissions of PET bottles 
compare to other materials?* 
*Based on 2009 report comparing three single-serve soft drink containers.GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 49OUR OPERATIONS
OPERATIONAL WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT
KEY BENCHMARKS
2018 2019 % REDUCTION
Megaliters of Surface Water Used 1,470 1,465  0.34%
Operational waste and water consumption are two other important factors in the overall 
sustainability of our manufacturing facilities. As part of our 2020 goals, we’re working toward 
reducing our landfill waste, while our water conservation efforts are mostly centered around 
reusing wastewater as part of our cooling processes.SPOTLIGHT ON  
Reduced Waste to Landfill 
Our food packaging vertical business 
unit assessed its waste management 
strategies and completed a “Dumpster 
Dive” activity to help reduce waste across 
their plants in 2019. They identified 
new chances for waste reduction by 
developing a stratified list of waste types 
and opportunities to recycle.
Across the plants, they averaged a 53.7% 
diversion rate, with the Lexington, KY, 
plant achieving a 96% diversion rate and 
sending just 4% of their waste to landfill. 
In 2020, this team hopes to continue 
these efforts by improving their diversion 
rate gaps by 25% and raising waste 
types that are below 50% recovery to 
meet or exceed the 50% target.
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR OPERATIONS 50OUR OPERATIONS
Measurable Results in Waste & Water
INCREASED AIR AND WATER MANAGEMENT
In our Florence, KY, facility, we produce millions of preforms and bottles per year for the food and beverage 
market. This plant presented an opportunity for us to reduce our carbon footprint and lower our energy costs 
through proper air and water management. We accomplished this through:
•  Automating air production and water production, which enables us to run equipment only when needed
•  Using a new magnetic bearing chiller to reduce the cost of chill water production during the winter months
•  Installing variable frequency drives on pumps and towers to give us better control over air and water flow
With these changes, we have been able to reduce the cost of KWh per pound produced by an average of  
18% compared to 2018. Our engineers are also able to monitor this system remotely 24/7, 365 days a year, 
and they have access to additional equipment data that helps them refine the new system to increase 
savings in the future.
REDUCED SCRAP TO LANDFILL
In 2019, we challenged our team in Hammond, LA, to significantly reduce the amount of scrap HDPE they were 
sending to landfill. With some exploration, they identified an opportunity to convert scrap material into usable 
regrind. Through the efforts of a cross-functional team, behavioral and process changes were implemented. 
They also purchased a small grinder to handle internal scrap. As a result, they diverted 780,000 pounds of 
HDPE scrap from landfill and rerouted it back into the manufacturing process.
FRESHWATER CONSERVATION INITIATIVES
We’re taking steps to reduce our freshwater use at the Graham Recycling Operation. Since 2014, we’ve 
reduced our use of process water by over 100 million gallons through the ongoing efforts of our team. Some 
of the ways they’re lowering our water usage are:
•  Replacing undersized hydroscreens and worn disco strainers to promote efficient filtration of wastewater
•  Allowing properly filtered wastewater to be used in place of freshwater in some applications
•  Installing flow reducers, automatic water refill valves and other ways to control water levels more accurately
•  Taking daily water readings and documenting these to ensure water is being used efficientlyGRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LOOKING AHEAD 51LOOKING AHEAD
This year, we’ve made progress on several key initiatives that deliver 
measurable value to our customers and our facilities. We’ve embraced 
sustainable manufacturing practices, increased our use of recycled materials 
and focused on creating change in our local communities. But as we look 
toward 2020 and beyond, we know there’s still work to be done.
Looking Ahead
We’re committed to broadening our influence and establishing ourselves as a leader 
in sustainability over the upcoming years. We promise to work tirelessly to find new, 
comprehensive solutions, starting with the goals we laid out in the beginning of this 
report. Over the next five to 10 years, we commit to:
•  Reducing energy usage by up to 5% in 2020, as part of an overall 25% energy  
reduction by 2028
•  Increasing our use of PCR, including ocean-bound plastic, by incorporating an average 
of 20% PCR across all bottles by 2025 
•  Conducting more than 25 life-cycle assessments to help communicate the value of 
sustainability to our customers in 2020 
•  Innovating to provide product lightweighting, durability and reusability
•  Continuing to design for recyclability across all products to achieve our goal  
of 100% recyclability by 2025 
As a plastic packaging manufacturer, we have a unique opportunity to work with our 
customers, manufacturing partners, industry associations and communities to affect 
meaningful change. If you have questions about the goals and information included in 
this report, or if you want to start a conversation with us about your own sustainability 
goals, you can reach out to us at www.grahampackaging.com/contact .  GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Sources
Page 12  https://sustainability.hapres.com/htmls/JSR_1204_Detail.html
Page 25 https:/ /www.oecd.org/env/tools-evaluation/extendedproducerresponsibility.htm
Page 27   http://www.fao.org/3/a-bb144e.pdf 
  https:/ /www.businesswire.com/news/home/20171212005320/en/U.S.-Food-Waste-Topping-200-Billion-Year 
  https:/ /www.incpen.org/incpen-evidence-to-food-waste-inquiry-explains-how-packaging-prevents-waste 
  https:/ /www.plasticpackagingfacts.org/?s=food+waste 
Page 29  https:/ /ourworldindata.org/plastic-pollution 
Page 32  https:/ /recyclingpartnership.org/stateofcurbside/ 
Page 33   https:/ /www.epa.gov/facts-and-figures-about-materials-waste-and-recycling/containers-and-packaging-product-specific-
data#PlasticC&P 
Page 41  https://www.bls.gov/iif/oshwc/osh/os/summ1_00_2017.htm 
Page 46  https://www.compressedairchallenge.org/data/sites/1/media/library/factsheets/factsheet07.pdf 
Page 47  https:/ /www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2020-04/documents/us-ghg-inventory-2020-main-text.pdf 
Page 48  http://www.petresin.org/pdf/FranklinLCISodaContainers2009.pdf ©2020  GRAHAM PACKAGING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.www.grahampackaging.com