People creating  
a better tomorrow.
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
Table of Contents
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Letter From the CEO
About Graham Packaging 
Our Beliefs
Mission Statement 6
Pillars of Excellence 8
Core Values 9
Our People
Community Involvement  11
Training & Development 12
Ethics & Compliance 14
Our Products
Why Plastic Packaging 16
PET & HDPE 17
Bio-Based & Biodegradable Resins 18
Our Initiatives
Sustainability Factors 20
Recycling Overview 21
Recycled Content 24
Graham Recycling Center 26
Lightweighting 29
Customer Colocation  30
Case Studies 31
Our Operations
Health & Safety 35
Environmental Management  37
Materials  38
Energy Usage 39
GHG Emissions  40
Waste & Water Consumption 42
Our Partnerships  43
Looking Ahead  45
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 LETTER FROM THE CEO
Message From Mike King 
GRAHAM PACKAGING CEO3 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  LETTER FROM THE CEOLETTER FROM THE CEO
Message From Mike King 
GRAHAM PACKAGING CEO
3 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  LETTER FROM THE CEOFor years, plastic has played a vital role in keeping consumer goods safe. It extends 
shelf life, preserves food, prevents product loss and even childproofs household 
and pharmaceutical products. However, we understand the realities of plastic 
packaging and the challenges our industry faces moving forward. 
With these new challenges, we’ve found a new drive — one that’s pushed us to take 
a closer look at our business in terms of sustainability, design innovations and 
leadership. In this report, we’ll detail Graham Packaging as it operates today, as  
well as our vision for a more sustainable future.
Part of that vision is the belief that preserving our planet should be a shared, global 
effort, and we realize that we need to be a major contributor to that effort. We 
started by signing the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy Global 
Commitment, pledging that our full line of packaging will be recyclable or reusable 
by 2025. We’ve also joined the Department of Energy’s Better Plants Program with 
plans to reduce our energy usage by at least 25% over the next 10 years. As we 
look ahead to 2025, we will continue to implement sustainability programs and find 
opportunities to make a lasting contribution to the betterment of our planet.
But while these are positive steps, formal commitments aren’t the only way we’re 
showing progress. Our team members are partnering with our customers to help 
them achieve their sustainability goals for 2025 and beyond — goals that include 
exploring alternative solutions like bio-based resin and developing strategies to 
minimize ocean-bound plastic. In the short term, we’re focused on three primary 
goals that directly impact our customers: increasing post-consumer resin content 
in our bottles, improving recyclability in all categories and decreasing our  
carbon footprint.
It’s this spirit of collaborative, creative problem-solving that has always defined 
Graham Packaging. For more than 50 years, we’ve made plastic packaging for  
beloved consumer brands, from juice and ketchup to cleaning products and 
automotive lubricants. But we recognize that to remain successful, we must evolve.
Together with our customers and suppliers, we will continue to refine our 
processes and products. And while there are still barriers to overcome, our team 
is steadfast in its commitment to bring sustainable packaging solutions to the 
markets we serve around the world.
We’re optimistic about the future, and we hope you are, too. We hope you’ll join us 
on our ongoing mission to preserve our planet for future generations. 
Mike King , Chief Executive Officer
4 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  ABOUT GRAHAM PACKAGINGFounded more than 50 years ago, Graham Packaging is a global 
packaging company dedicated to the design and manufacturing  
of environmentally friendly packaging solutions. 
Our company started with the design of the first 
plastic motor oil container and has since expanded 
into other packaging categories, including food and 
beverage, personal care, household and healthcare. 
We work with Fortune 500 companies, as well as 
small independent businesses, to create  
one-of-a-kind packaging solutions.
Headquartered in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, with 
our flagship manufacturing facility in nearby York, 
Pennsylvania, we produce more than 16 billion 
container units annually at almost 70 plants in North 
America, Asia, Europe and South America. In 2011, we were acquired by Reynolds Group 
Holdings, a leading global manufacturer and 
supplier of consumer food and beverage packaging 
and storage products.
At every Graham facility, you’ll have access to a 
dedicated team of designers, engineers and other 
packaging professionals who are obsessed with 
solving the industry’s biggest packaging challenges. 
We’re confident that through close collaboration 
with our customers and manufacturing partners, 
we can bring stability, innovation and customizable 
services to our ever-changing industry.ABOUT
ABOUTGraham PackagingOUR  
beliefs5 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR BELIEFSWe are committed to minimizing 
the impact of our manufacturing by 
designing innovative products, creating 
operational and recycling efficiencies, 
empowering our employees to be 
informed stewards and leading the 
ongoing mission to preserve our  
planet for future generations.WHAT WE DO 
Building on a Legacy
OUR MISSION IS TO BE 
AN INDUSTRY-LEADING 
SOLUTIONS PROVIDER FOR 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING.
We have a long history of providing environmentally 
friendly packaging solutions to our customers. 
But to remain the partner of choice, we must 
continuously evolve, keeping social, environmental 
and economic sustainability at the forefront of  
our daily lives. 
In our drive for excellence, we have made sustainability a top priority, and we 
look at everything we do through that lens. When developing a new product, we 
balance the delivery of a world-class, profitable solution for our customers with 
the creation of a product that will have the lowest environmental impact. When 
building our team, we treat every interaction as an opportunity for employee 
development and an investment in our future.
We believe that every one of us is part of something bigger — from our families 
and communities to wider society and the global environment in which we live. 
These relationships are interconnected, and any impact on the environment has 
the potential to affect each of us today, tomorrow and in the future.
So, as a packaging company — and more importantly, as human beings — we 
must consider our planet’s future in everything we do, every day. Whether we’re 
shaping a bottle, contracting with a customer, sourcing a new resin or hiring a new 
employee, we believe it’s an investment in our future and the future of our planet.
OUR BELIEFS
6 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR BELIEFSWith the technology 
available today, we can 
make a positive global 
impact both socially  
and environmentally. Our packaging already protects and 
preserves our customers’ products. 
Now, we must take a step forward to 
consider how it can protect and preserve 
our planet. Knowing the potential impact 
our operations and products may have 
on today’s environment and that of future 
generations, we are focused on being part 
of a broader solution for our employees, 
customers and communities.
We acknowledge the need for a circular 
economy. To be part of the solution, we 
have embraced the idea that a responsible 
company must exist and grow in an 
environmentally, socially and economically 
sustainable way. We build success by being 
accountable for bridging the gap between 
profitability and the ever-changing needs  
of our planet.In the face of today’s challenges, we believe 
in the relevance of a circular economy 
and understand that the best outcome for 
plastics is the reuse of this valuable, finite 
resource. Therefore, our first — and most 
important — contribution to the circular 
economy is to collect and reuse bottles 
that exist today through vigorous recycling 
efforts. We’re also committed to working 
with suppliers and customers to test and 
validate chemically recycled and bio-based 
plastics. We can use these resources 
to build new packages, both to further 
preserve nonrenewable resources and  
to support a circular economy.
However, there are bigger steps to be taken 
on this long, evolving journey. We need 
to help educate the public on how we can 
overcome barriers to recycling and push 
for solutions, understanding that without 
developed infrastructure and government 
support, it is up to us to look for the best 
possible environmental outcomes.NEW OPPORTUNITIES
Creating a Circular Economy
OUR BELIEFS
7 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR BELIEFSRETAILERMANUFACTURING
THE CONSUMERTHE SUPPLIER
 
 
 CONSUMER
RECYCLINGDESIGNReduced carbon footprint 
thanks to everything from 
plant-wide operational 
solutions to an increased 
use of recycling.Reduced environmental 
impact through innovative 
packaging solutions.
Best-in-class repurposing 
eﬀorts that work to help 
save our planet.RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 
Focusing on Accountability
Our responsibility to our planet and our communities exists in 
three intertwined pillars: social, environmental and economic 
opportunities that we must leverage to carry out our mission. 
Each of these pillars is itself critical and important, but combined, 
they underpin the very basis of a sustainable society and planet.
 SOCIAL
Safety  
Maintain and improve on our world-class 
safety record
Employee Growth  
Support career development, advancement 
and work-life balance
Diversity   
Promote inclusion and diversity in our 
team
Integrity  
Comply with local laws and regulations, 
maintaining the highest ethical standards
Education  
Work to educate our customers, suppliers, 
employees and the public on the 
environmental benefits of plastics, and on 
product recyclability and how to recycle ENVIRONMENTAL
Recycled Content  
Push the boundaries on recycled plastic 
content in our products
Advocacy  
Lead the ongoing environmental dialogue on 
plastic packaging and be a constant advocate 
to increase the recycling infrastructure
Partnership  
Deliver on customers’ sustainability goals, 
while helping customers and suppliers 
reduce their environmental footprint
Reduced Carbon Footprint  
Work across our organization to minimize our 
energy and water usage, as well as reduce 
and eventually eliminate our waste to landfill  ECONOMIC
Design for Recyclability
Use shapes, process technology and design 
technology to promote recyclability, advocate 
lightweighting and create functional features 
that minimize the environmental impact of  
our packaging
Innovation   
Explore new technologies to reduce or 
eliminate barriers to recyclability, chemically 
recycled plastics and bio-based plastics
Efficiency   
Continuously improve our operations  
by reducing our carbon footprint, while  
developing operational initiatives that  
promote more efficient and environmentally  
responsible outcomes
Freight Solutions   
Explore freight initiatives that limit 
greenhouse gases by reducing the number 
of trucks and trains needed to move our 
products and material
We will continually reexamine this mission and challenge ourselves to produce 
concrete and achievable solutions that advance our industry, grow our business and 
better our planet. As we move forward, we will continue to value our people, honor our 
commitments, embrace the highest standards and act with integrity in all that we do. 
OUR BELIEFS
8 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR BELIEFSOUR BELIEFSCore Values
9 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR BELIEFSVALUE OUR PEOPLE
Create a safe environment for our team above all. Build our organization 
around a diverse group of innovative people who want to make a positive 
difference and create value for their customers. Identify, promote, invest  
in and reward those who do.
HONOR OUR COMMITMENTS
Act with integrity. Earn the trust of our partners both inside and outside the 
company. Do what we say we will do and deliver what we commit to deliver.
BE THE PARTNER OF CHOICE
Strive to be a “destination company,” where people want to work, with 
whom customers and suppliers want to do business. Be proud, contributing 
members of the communities where we operate.
DRIVE FOR EXCELLENCE
Hold ourselves to the highest standards and never be complacent. Strive 
for continuous improvement, learning from our mistakes and the mistakes 
of others. Add value in everything we do.
Collaborative. Creative. Committed.  
Our organization is made up of a diverse 
group of people who leverage these key 
attributes to make a positive difference  
in the workplace and in their communities. 
By building strong relationships and 
creating value for our customers through 
years of experience, our people embody 
the innovative spirit that’s inherent to 
Graham Packaging.OUR  
people
10 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PEOPLECOMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
Making a Local Impact
As a global company, we’re fortunate to be able to make an impact in many 
diverse communities. To further these initiatives in 2019, we’re creating 
sustainability teams that will focus on community outreach to promote 
recycling, reduced energy usage and sustainable living. See what our  
teams have been up to recently to help their local communities.
Mexicali Plant, Mexico 
•  Collects food and water for people in need  
during earthquakes
Belford Roxo Plant, Brazil
• Raised 440 pounds of food and put together  
75 gifts for children in a nearby orphanage
Tlalnepantla Plant, Mexico 
•  Donates pieces of outdated equipment  
to Fidel Velazquez School for low-income  
students seeking technical training
Corporate Office, Lancaster PA 
•  Raised $3,100 for the Children’s Miracle Network  
in honor of the son of a Graham employee who  
was born with complex medical needs
•  Collected clothing and food items for  
homeless veterans in the community 
Mason Plant, Ohio
•  Participates in the annual Shared Harvest Group 
food drive to help those in the local community, 
donating 3,089 pounds of food, which created  
2,574 meals for those in need in 2017
• Participates in an annual blood drive
• Donates used printer cartridges to local librariesGPC International
•  Participated in a tree-planting activity  
in Portugal during our kickoff meeting 
•  Encouraged employees to commute to  
work on e-bikes for Earth Day 
GPC International, Poland
• Challenges employees to fill up a Volkswagen 
Transporter for a local food bank
Tolleson Plant, Arizona 
• Collects food for St. Mary’s Food Bank
Houston Plant, Texas
•  Has partnered with the Houston Fire Department’s 
Operation Stocking Stuffer for the past two 
years, and in 2018, their donations helped the 
fire department collect over 45,000 toys for 
underprivileged children
Elwood Plant, Indiana 
•  Committed to donating $10,000 toward a 5K  
and chili cook-off yearly through our partnership  
with Red Gold KetchupOUR PEOPLE
11 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PEOPLEWe expect our employees to go above and beyond to create value for our 
customers, and in turn, we want to create value for them. By identifying, 
promoting and investing in employees who step up, we’ve built a culture 
that rewards hard work and encourages our people to grow their skills.
Pay-for-Skills Program
In 2018, we began a cutting-edge Pay-for-Skills 
program for our hourly employees. Beginning  
at our Bowling Green and Altavista facilities, a  
cross-functional team of Graham Packaging leaders 
identified the specific tasks associated with plant 
hourly employment. From there, they assessed the 
skills needed to perform each task and determined 
the progress required to be successful at each one.
The benefits of the Pay-for-Skills program are 
twofold. For our employees, it allows them to take 
their career development into their own hands.  
They are rewarded for their motivation to complete 
training and acquire/validate their skills. For our company, it fosters an environment of 
engaged management and helps us further develop 
our talented employees. This program also gives us  
a competitive advantage when recruiting new talent  
at our many locations.
The concept of Pay-for-Skills is based on the modern 
participative management philosophy that today’s 
employees can’t be recruited, trained and retained 
by traditional time-based compensation systems. 
Rewarding today’s talented candidates requires a 
progressive and intrinsic approach that rewards 
people based on their individual talent and skills 
acquisition, not how long they’ve been employed.TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
Focusing on Growth
12 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PEOPLEOUR PEOPLE
Litmos Learning Management System
To help our employees learn and grow, we needed to find a 
world-class e-learning management system that could maximize 
engagement and retention, satisfy facility safety initiatives 
and ensure legal and regulatory compliance. Plus, as a global 
company, we needed a platform that allowed our employees 
around the world to take courses in many different languages.  
We selected Litmos as the best option for our organization. 
What we can do with Litmos:
• Use the online course builder to create training materials
• Schedule and track classroom training sessions
• Develop learning paths, from multiple courses to group training 
sessions
• Provide assessment to benchmark knowledge retention
• Get real-time notifications from teams and learners
• Review performance and gain insight onto training impacts with 
reports and dashboards
• Provide surveys to employees FrontLine Leadership Development  
and Fundamentals
We believe that a company is only as effective as its 
leadership. So, we follow the general rule of focusing  
70% of our leaders’ development on job-related 
experiences, 20% on interactions with others and  
10% on formal education. 
Our FrontLine Leadership program falls into the formal 
education category and consists of an instructor-led 
course or a three-day session with subject matter experts 
within our organization. This program provides all plant 
leaders who are new to their role or new to Graham with 
the opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of their 
role, including how to drive standardization, reduce cost, 
build trust and encourage involvement at all levels of  
our business. 
As a result of their participation in this program, our  
plant leaders have become more effective in their roles. 
They’ve built motivating relationships with their teams, 
while actively dealing with personnel challenges like 
stagnation and turnover.
13 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PEOPLEOUR PEOPLE
Ethics & Compliance
Honoring our commitments and acting with integrity are two principles that are built into 
our company’s core values. We know we must earn the trust of our partners, both inside 
and outside our company, and to do that, we must comply with all local laws and regulations 
while maintaining the highest ethical standards.
We have a well-developed Ethics & Compliance Program embedded in our company culture 
and supported by our Litmos e-learning platform. We use both Litmos and in-person 
training to train all relevant employees on our code of conduct, fraud policies and other 
specific training topics, like anti-corruption, anti-bribery, antitrust and privacy. By offering 
this standardized training, we can be sure every employee receives the same information. 
We also use this platform to periodically reinforce our compliance focus. 
In addition to our Litmos platform, we have an ethics hotline available, which can  
be accessed globally in the languages of the countries where we operate. The hotline  
is accessible by phone or online and provides a platform for employees and third parties  
to report any potential ethics or compliance concerns. Those concerns are then fed into  
our case management system and thoroughly investigated.
We take ethics and compliance violations seriously, and we strive to handle any breach  
of conduct with the utmost care and professionalism. 
14 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PEOPLEOUR PEOPLEThe packaging we make helps popular 
brands deliver their goods in a safe, 
convenient way. From highly creative 
designs to innovative childproofing options 
and everything in between, our team will 
envision and produce a customized solution 
that exceeds expectations.OUR  
products
15 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PRODUCTSPLASTIC PACKAGING
Using Our Resources
Responsibly
In recent years, plastic packaging, particularly  
single-use plastic, has received negative attention  
in traditional media and on social media. Much of the 
conversation has been centered around the amount of 
plastic in the ocean, the growing number of cities banning 
or taxing single-use plastics and what steps companies 
are taking to reduce their environmental impact.  
However, when used responsibly, plastic packaging  
can lead to reduced pollution and lower energy usage  
than other forms of packaging available today. 
Glass, for example, has been considered 
as an alternative, but the energy involved 
in producing glass, as well as the freight 
and fuel costs involved with shipping such 
a heavy material, has been a deterrent. Not 
to mention, glass packaging can lead to 
breakage, which results in an increase in 
production downtime and product loss.It’s important to note that some plastics 
are easier to recycle than others. PET and 
HDPE are two of the most common, easily 
recycled plastics. Both PET and HDPE 
are lightweight, durable and offer design 
flexibility not found in other plastics. Plus, 
because of their reduced weight and size, 
PET and HDPE products can be transported 
in higher volumes on fewer trucks. The use of recyclable and reusable plastic 
packaging helps create a circular economy 
where valuable resources are conserved 
rather than wasted. By working together 
to preserve these finite resources, we can 
continue to enjoy the many benefits of plastic 
packaging, including safer products, more 
convenience, lower prices, reduced energy 
use and less product loss.OUR PRODUCTS
16 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PRODUCTSIN 2018, WE PROCESSED OVER 550 
MILLION POUNDS OF PET RESIN AND 
OVER 670 MILLION POUNDS OF HDPE 
RESIN ACROSS OUR GLOBAL FACILITIES. Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET)
PET is widely used for packaging food and beverages, like juice, water and salad 
dressings, as well as personal care and cleaning items like hand soap and spray 
cleaners. It’s also an approved material for use in pharmaceutical and medical 
applications. PET won’t react with foods or drugs and is resistant to the growth  
of microorganisms and biological degradation.
Though clear and lightweight, PET is also strong enough to endure shipping 
without danger of breakage. Because it’s both lightweight and strong, it results  
in lower transportation costs and more energy efficiency for facilities that  
produce it. Thus, it’s considered more sustainable than glass, aluminum and  
other packaging materials.
Bottle-grade PET is one of the common plastics we use, and it’s our goal that 
100% of our PET packages be recycled back into bottles or be recovered for use in 
other plastic products. In 2018, we processed over 550 million pounds of PET resin 
across our global facilities.  
High-density Polyethylene (HDPE)
HDPE is used in a variety of applications, from snowboards and outdoor decking to 
food and beverage packaging. Thanks to its high strength-to-density ratio, HDPE 
is ideal for packaging gallons of milk, laundry detergent and other heavy liquids. 
Plus, its light weight keeps transportation costs low.
This material has a high melting point, allowing it to be sterilized by boiling before 
being used for food and beverages. It also naturally resists mold, microorganisms, 
acids and even chemicals. Highly malleable, HDPE can be molded into countless 
creative shapes for more shelf appeal.
Bottle-grade HDPE is another common plastic we use, and it’s our goal that 100% 
of our HDPE packages be recycled back into bottles or be recovered for use in 
other plastic products. In 2018, we processed over 670 million pounds of HDPE 
resin across our global facilities.SPOTLIGHT ON 
Food Waste
Every year, approximately one-third of 
all food produced in the world for human 
consumption is lost or wasted. In fact, 
when the greenhouse gas emissions  
from the top 20 countries in the world 
were compared to the emissions from 
overall food waste, it was found that  
if food waste were its own country,  
it would be the third largest emitting 
country in the world .11 This large volume 
of waste affects not just the world’s food 
supply, but also the supply of critical 
resources like water, land and energy.
While food waste may seem like a 
problem independent of plastic recycling, 
these two key issues are closely 
intertwined. By replacing glass and other 
non-durable types of packaging with rigid 
plastic solutions, food manufacturers and 
distributors can cut down on food waste 
due to breakage. Plastic packaging also 
extends the shelf life of foods that would 
otherwise expire. OUR PRODUCTS
17 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PRODUCTS
Bio-based Resins
Bio-based resins are derived either partially or completely from renewable raw 
materials that undergo a chemical reaction to create a new synthetic material. 
They take the place of traditional resins like polyester, epoxy and polyurethane. 
We are continuing to research and experiment with bio-based resins that do not 
compete with the food chain.
Biodegradable Resins
Biodegradable resin is plastic that is actively metabolized by microorganisms like 
bacteria when left in the natural environment. For example, we have explored 
using potato starch compounded into HDPE. This unique mixture creates a new 
alloy-like polymeric compound that is recyclable, but for those containers that 
slip outside the recycling stream into the environment with microorganisms, 
the intention is that the entire container will 100% biodegrade. Although we’ve 
experimented with biodegradable resin, and it sounds like an ideal packaging 
option, there are currently several challenges with this technology.
First, many of these products are not truly biodegradable. They won’t biodegrade 
naturally if they slip out of the waste stream into the environment. Most of these 
resins need special industrial facilities to process them, and these facilities are 
not consistently available. Even where such facilities do exist, many industrial 
composters won’t take biodegradable plastics because of the problems they can 
cause, like not composting adequately, introducing contamination and hurting 
resale quality.
Second, the global supply chain is not yet equipped for industrial composting 
because most facilities can’t adequately sort materials and avoid questionable 
products. For example, some packaging is being produced with compostable 
resins, but because there is still a mix of materials being used, compost facilities 
are refusing all these containers.8
And third, large-scale composting disrupts the recycling stream by promoting 
the degradation of plastics that would otherwise be recycled and reused. It is 
worth noting that biodegradability is a proper solution for packages that are not 
recyclable or for those that may slip out of the waste stream into the environment. 
We believe that biodegradable resins are a second- or third-tier sustainability 
solution. Our preference is to enable virgin polymers to be used as many times as 
possible via recycling and through the management of our internal scrap, whether 
the polymer is from fossil fuels (nonrenewable) or bio-based  
materials (renewable).OUR PRODUCTS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PRODUCTS 18SPOTLIGHT ON 
Green Resin  
at Graham
About seven years ago, we partnered with a 
customer to create a resin made mostly of 
sugar cane, and we became one of the first 
companies to take this type of product into 
large-scale production. We made roughly 
three billion bottles using this bio-based  
resin, which is now widely used in the industry.
For us, sustainability is about thinking 
globally and acting locally. We constantly 
ask ourselves what we can do to make 
things better for our customers, our 
community and the world. It’s clear that 
it will take a collective effort to preserve 
our planet for future generations, and 
we’ll continue to support that effort in 
every way possible.OUR  
initiatives
19 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVESSUSTAINABILITY FACTORS
Minimizing Our Impact
We strive to be responsible, purposeful and sustainable at every level of our business. 
That means taking a hard look at where we are and where we want to go over the next 
five to 10 years. We’ve identified several areas of opportunity that will help us reach  
our sustainability goals going forward.OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES 20DESIGN FOR RECYCLABILITY
Minimize the environmental impact of our 
packaging through design focused on recyclability, 
plus lightweighting and freight optimization. INNOVATION
Explore new technologies to reduce or eliminate 
barriers to recyclability, chemically recycled 
plastics and bio-based plastics.
PARTNERSHIP
Partner with customers and suppliers to help 
them reduce their carbon footprint by advocating 
for on- or near-site partnerships.EFFICIENCY
Work tirelessly to develop operational initiatives 
that promote more efficient and environmentally 
responsible outcomes.
RECYCLED CONTENT
Push the boundaries on how much recycled 
content we use in our products.CARBON FOOTPRINT
Work across our organization to reduce our 
energy and water usage, as well as reduce and 
eventually eliminate our waste to landfill.The plastic boom began in the 1940s when mass-producing 
plastic items became necessary to support the war effort 
during World War II. 
Since that time, roughly 9.1 billion tons of plastic have been produced across the world.  
Seventy-nine percent of that plastic has made its way into landfills or the natural  
environment, while a meager 9% has been recycled.1
In the face of those numbers, it’s clear to see that, as a global community, we’ve fallen short  
in our efforts to preserve our planet through good recycling practices. It’s time for a change, 
and getting better at recycling is an easy first step.THE IMPORTANCE OF RECYCLING
Understanding the Big PictureOUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES 21*Global Data2
*U.S. Data3NOTE: Data in this graphic has been gathered from several sources. Different measurement 
methods from country-to-country may make actual recycling rate comparisons difficult. U.S. 
25.8%Denmark 
46.3%
Germany 
66.1%
Italy 
52.6%Switzerland 
52.7%
France 
39.6%South Korea 
59%
Taiwan 
58%
Singapore 
61%
Australia 
41.6%Hong Kong 
36.5%Belgium 
53.5%Wales 
63.8%U.K. 
43.5%Recycling Rates Around the World*U.S. Recycling Metrics
Despite the U.S.’s less-than-stellar recycling record, steady improvement has been made over 
the last several decades. Overall, the recycling rate in the U.S. increased 27% from its early days 
in the 1980s through 2015. Likewise, the overall recycling rate of plastic grew steadily during the 
same time period, though it has dropped off slightly in recent years.4 Today, the recycling rate for 
HDPE and PET, specifically, is approximately 30%.5
U.S. Plastic by the Numbers4
Though plastic has received negative media attention recently, many American consumers 
still see plastic as a modern necessity for its convenience, safety and lower price. As a general 
category, plastic made up 18.9% of all landfilled waste in 2015.4 Now, imagine a world where we 
could reduce that number to less than 1%. 
Recycling finite materials like plastic does more than just free up space in landfills. It conserves 
both renewable and nonrenewable resources, boosts the economy, prevents pollution, saves 
energy and even creates jobs. In fact, it’s estimated that approximately 75,000 jobs and $3 billion 
in wages are generated for every 1,000 tons of plastic that’s recycled.6OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES 22IT’S ESTIMATED THAT APPROXIMATELY  
75,000 JOBS AND $3 BILLION IN WAGES  
ARE GENERATED FOR EVERY 1,000 TONS  
OF PLASTIC THAT’S RECYCLED.34.5 MILLION TONS  
of plastic generated26 MILLION TONS  
of plastic landfilled3.1 MILLION TONS  
of plastic recycledThe Recycling Process
The recycling process for HDPE and PET generally begins on  
the curb, where waste management companies pick up 
recyclables, like plastic, paper and glass, and transport them  
to municipal recycling facilities. The recyclables are then  
sorted into like materials. In the case of plastic, HDPE and  
PET are separated accordingly.
Once the HDPE and PET are separated, they are sorted further 
by color. Natural bottles — what consumers consider “clear”  
plastic — go into one pile, while colored plastic goes into another. 
Containers that can’t be sorted go into a mixed pile with both  
natural and colored plastic.
After the sorting is finished, the material is shaped into bales, 
which can be shipped to post-consumer resin (PCR) recyclers 
like us. The more difficult it is to sort the material, the higher 
the cost of the bales. And the less consumers recycle on 
the front end, the less recycled plastic there is available for 
manufacturers to reuse.Barriers to Recycling
Recently, both shoppers and big-box retailers have shifted 
their buying habits to favor sustainable packaging that is made 
partially or entirely of PCR.9 While many manufacturers, like 
Graham, are stepping up to meet these new and growing 
consumer demands, there are still significant barriers at every 
level of the recycling process that make it difficult for consumers 
to recycle, and therefore, difficult for manufacturers to create 
sustainable packaging.
Some of the most commonly cited barriers to recycling include:
• Inconsistent collection and recycling efforts along the entire  
value chain
• Misinformation about effective methods for preventing pollution
• Lack of consumer understanding of what is recyclable and  
how to recycle it
• Little or no access to recycling and waste collection servicesPET               HDPE Natural      MixedColored
BalesMaterial
Sorting
Municipal Recycling FacilitesShipping
Shipped to PCR RecyclersRecycling
Process
Begins
23 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVESOUR INITIATIVES
Curbside to Recyclers: The Recycling ProcessRECYCLED CONTENT 
Reusing Valuable Resources
24OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVESOne of the best ways to keep plastic out of landfills  
and out of the oceans is to recycle it so it can be used  
to create another plastic product. 
Plus, many shoppers today feel a personal responsibility to prevent plastics from negatively  
impacting the environment. This leads them to buy products labeled as “recyclable,” “made  
from recycled materials” and “easier to recycle.” 
However, to make packaging that can truly claim it’s “made from recycled materials,” manufacturers 
need access to large volumes of recycled content. This can be difficult to find when much of the plastic 
produced today ends up in landfills rather than at a recycling center. That’s where the circular economy 
comes in — as consumer recycling rates climb, so does the amount of recycled content available to 
manufacturers, who can then use it to make new products for consumers.
U.S. Recycling Rate of  
PET Bottles and Jars5U.S. Recycling Rate of  
HDPE Natural Bottles5
29.9%   
RECYCLED30.3%  
RECYCLEDNEARLY EVERY PACKAGE 
WE PRODUCE CONTAINS 
SOME LEVEL OF  
RECYCLED CONTENT.Recycled Content at Graham Packaging
We have advanced technologies that allow us to make bottles with various 
percentages of recycled content. Our development team works with customers 
to determine the best way to meet their needs for recycled content. We have 
supplied customers with packaging containing from 10% to 100% recycled 
materials, and most packages we produce have some level of post-industrial 
recycled content that comes from our internal scrap. 
rPET
Bottle-grade PET is a popular and valuable recycled material. The cost of  
post-consumer recycled PET (rPET) can vary widely depending on where in the 
process the content is sourced. It may come from scrapped bottles, flake  
or even reprocessed pellets, but the more consistent the color and performance 
of the PET, the higher the cost. 
Today, we consume roughly 11 million pounds of recycled PET annually,  
and we expect that number to increase significantly by 2025. Our goal  
is that 100% of our packaging be recycled back into bottles or recovered  
for use in other plastic products.
rHDPE
HDPE is also a popular and valuable recycled material. We can incorporate 
a significant amount of recycled HDPE (rHDPE) into any bottle we make, and 
in 2018, we used 65 million pounds of HDPE post-consumer resin from all 
sources. 
Forty-two million pounds of this total was sourced from our Graham Recycling 
Center. In addition, our plants were able to reuse 18.1 million pounds of regrind, 
which are rejected parts that we can reclaim. Including virgin and  
post-consumer resin, we consumed approximately 670 million pounds  
of HDPE in 2018. 
25SPOTLIGHT ON 
The New Plastics 
Economy Global 
Commitment
We are one of the largest plastic 
manufacturers to have signed the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics 
Economy Global Commitment. By signing  
this commitment, we’ve pledged that all  
of our plastic packaging will be able to be 
reused, recycled or composted by 2025.
OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVESAs one of the largest plastic recycling facilities 
in the northeastern U.S., the Graham Recycling 
Center in York, Pennsylvania, recycles #2 HDPE 
bottles into post-consumer resin (PCR). Our 
facility, which began with one line in 1990 and 
has since grown to three lines, helps us save 
vast amounts of energy and natural resources 
by diverting hundreds of millions of pounds of 
plastic from landfills and substantially reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
In 2018, we received material from many different vendors, including 
global sources, which allowed us to process 45 million pounds of  
post-consumer material using our best-in-class recycling methods.  
We also reused 18.1 million pounds of post-industrial bottle flake  
across all segments within our company.
The benefits of having our own recycling center are twofold. Not only has 
it helped the packaging side of our business become one of the largest 
suppliers of bottle-grade recycled plastic containers in the world, but 
it’s also enabled our facility to be more sustainable, contributing to our 
larger goal of preserving the planet for future generations.GRAHAM RECYCLING CENTER
Reducing Landfill WasteOUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES 26
OPEN
BALESWASH &
GRIND
INTO FLAKEDRY FLAKE
EXTRUDE
FLAKE
MELT
FILTER
PELLETIZEPACKAGE
PELLETSSORT
BY COLOR
CIRCULAR ECONOMYMANUFACTURINGCIRCULAR ECONOMYRECYCLINGMILLION GALLONS  
Process water reduction since 2014
ENERGY REDUCTION
Sustained energy improvement since 2014
MILLION POUNDS 
Recycled material generated in 2018100+ 
11%
18.127 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES
In 2018, the efforts at the 
Graham Recycling Center 
resulted in approximately 
300 million plastic 
containers being  
kept out of landfills.OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES 28Our Recycling Network
In addition to our recycling center, we use a network of HDPE recyclers to meet the needs of 
our customers. This network enables us to adapt to fluctuations in customer and consumer 
demands, as well as prevent material shortages if severe weather occurs. Annually, this 
network enables us to use an additional 23 million pounds of recycled content and helps us 
minimize the impact of transportation.
The Graham Recycling Center in York, Pennsylvania, services our facilities throughout the 
eastern and midwestern U.S. To minimize the cost and impact of freight, we’ve developed 
strong partnerships with other major recycling operations in the southern and western U.S.SPOTLIGHT ON
ThermaSet®
ThermaSet is our patented heat-set process 
that allows PET containers to be used 
in challenging fill processes like hot fill, 
pasteurized and retort where glass is typically 
used. Because of its lighter weight than glass, 
40% more ThermaSet PET jars can be put on 
a single truck. They also need less packaging 
and fuel during transport while being fully 
reusable and recyclable.LIGHTWEIGHTING  
Reducing Weight Without 
Impacting Performance OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES2001 Current
29
85g
58g81g
75g73g
68g66g63g 62.5g1994
CurrentLIGHTWEIGHTING RECTANGULAR PET BOTTLES
31.7% Decrease in Weight
2001 Current8g
5.2g7.6g
7g
6.5g
6.2g6g
5.5gLIGHTWEIGHTING DRINKABLE YOGURT HDPE BOTTLES
35% Decrease in WeightThe cost of warehousing and shipping heavy products has become 
a big concern for many companies, and while shipping large 
volumes of product can be expensive, it can also have a negative 
impact on the environment.  
For example, we’ve implemented lightweighting initiatives for both our PET and HDPE 
packaging that have helped to offset some of these monetary and environmental costs.
Lightweighting is the process of redesigning our products to reduce the overall weight 
of the packaged item. This can be done by replacing glass packaging with plastic 
packaging, causing a significant reduction in weight, or by taking an existing plastic 
container and reducing its weight without impacting the performance of the container. 
With lightweighting and design innovation, our goal is to minimize impacts across the life 
cycle of a product.
Benefits of Lightweighting
•  Decreases fuel consumption with the transport of more products on fewer trucks
•  Maintains the appearance and performance of the packaging while increasing design flexibility
•  Reduces material use, resulting in lower energy and resource consumption 
•  Lowers overall carbon footprint across the entire supply chain30One out of every three Graham plants is strategically positioned 
near or inside our customers’ filling facilities. This allows us 
to reduce not only our carbon footprint, but also the carbon 
footprints of our customers. Customer colocation also provides 
value through freight savings, operational efficiency and  
flexible technologies. 
Freight Savings
•  Eliminates the cost of shipping empty bottles  
from Graham location to customer location
•  Lets customers ship only their finished,  
packaged product
• Reduces inventory requirements
•  Cuts down on manpower needed to ship and  
receive bottles multiple times
Operational Efficiency
• Delivers significant energy savings
• Expedites quality assurance process
• Promotes utilities synergy and cost-down
•  Allows for the use of fully automated  
logistics solutions
•  Minimizes impact on current operations  
through phased development and installationRecycling Opportunities 
•  Creates potential for 100% closed-loop  
recycling of customer scrap
•  Provides an additional source for  
recycled content
Flexible Technologies
• Allows for use of our latest PET technologies,  
which offer up to 30% weight savings when  
compared to glass
•  Reduces carbon footprint through innovative 
equipment solutions
•  Uses injected finish, which reduces scrap, improves 
seal consistency and boosts final product qualityCUSTOMER COLOCATION
Reducing Carbon Footprints 
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVESOUR INITIATIVES31We’re passionate about making products that make a difference. 
Our team works tirelessly to develop new, more sustainable 
packaging solutions by bringing together the right combination of 
industry expertise, technical skills and creative problem-solving, 
all while leveraging our 50-year history of innovation. From 
hosting live design sessions to get the look of a product just right 
to engineering a new production line process, we won’t stop until 
we’ve exceeded expectations. SUCCESS STORIES
Developing More 
Sustainable SolutionsOUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES
ThermaSet is our patented heat-set process 
that allows PET containers to be used 
in challenging fill processes like hot fill, 
pasteurized and retort. This process can  
be completed using a container made of 
bottle-grade PET with no special additives 
that has a sustained thermal resistance  
of 250 degrees Fahrenheit.
Benefits
As a production solution, the ThermaSet 
process affords products the benefits of 
being packaged in plastic. It promotes longer 
shelf life and maintains glass-like clarity. 
It also works with metal lug, metal CT 
closures, can ends and plastic closures to fit 
into existing fill lines. Because ThermaSet 
facilitates a switch from glass to plastic, 
it also results in enhanced environmental 
benefits, including:
• Virtually eliminating breakage  
with shatter-resistant material
• Reducing production downtime  
and product loss
• Reducing weight by up to 30%  
for freight savings
• Using less energy to produceThermaSet® as an Environmentally Responsible Alternative to GlassOUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVESENVIRONMENTAL INDICATOR% REDUCTION FROM WHEN  
CONVERTING FROM GLASS TO PET
Energy  16%
Air Particulates 93%
Smog Emissions 55%
Carbon Footprint 38%
32To verify these benefits, we commissioned an 
independent research firm to conduct a life cycle 
assessment of 1,000 24-ounce ThermaSet PET 
pasta sauce jars and compare them to their glass 
counterparts. The goal of the study was to document  
the life cycle environmental impact of these jars,  
with special emphasis on measuring energy depletion 
and climate change impacts.
This study, which was peer reviewed, calculated the 
environmental impact of manufacturing the jars, 
caps and packaging materials, shipping the jars 
to their filling locations, filling the jars with pasta 
sauce, shipping the filled jars to grocery stores and 
disposing of unrecycled jars in landfills. It found 
that over multiple environmental impact categories, 
ThermaSet PET jars had a lower impact on the 
environment than glass jars.
Applications
• Baby Food
• Fresh-Cut Fruits & Vegetables
• Jelly & Preserves
• Microwaveable/Direct Serve Foods
• Pasta & Pizza Sauces
• Pickles & Relish
• Salsa & Dips
*Results from critically-reviewed, ISO 14044 LCA Study Comparint ThermaSet® PET jars to glass jars.Promoting Reuse Through Texture and Lightweighting
As a leader in reusable PET production in Mexico, we have produced roughly 100 
billion reusable bottles for one of our largest beverage customers. These bottles 
are returned and reused an average of 17 times, which saves a lot of valuable resin 
and energy. 
Lightweighting
Our first initiative with this customer was to lightweight every bottle size they offer 
so that when the bottles are returned, they cost less to ship. Lighter bottles also 
allow trucks to carry more in one load, resulting in fewer trucks on the road.
Texture
On average, these bottles are reused 17 times, though they’re designed to be 
reused up to 25 times. There are several reasons why a bottle may be rejected,  
but the most common is scuffing on the exterior of the bottle, which lowers its  
shelf appeal.
Since most bottles are rejected for cosmetic reasons, we decided to explore ways 
to cut down on the “used” appearance of a bottle. Our proprietary solution was a 
texture that takes on the appearance of bubbles but helps to eliminate scratches 
and scuffs on areas of the bottle where they commonly occur. When tested, these 
textured bottles showed 75% less scuffing than nontextured bottles. OUR INITIATIVES
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR INITIATIVES 33BOTTLE SIZE INITIAL WEIGHT CURRENT WEIGHT % WEIGHT REDUCTION
1.5L 106g 93g 12%
2L 127g 93g 26%
2.5L 136g 110g 19%
3L 143g 127g 11%
SINCE MOST REUSABLE BOTTLES ARE REJECTED FOR COSMETIC 
REASONS, WE EXPLORED WAYS TO CUT DOWN ON THEIR “USED” 
APPEARANCE. WHEN TESTED, OUR TEXTURED BOTTLES SHOWED 
75% LESS SCUFFING THAN NONTEXTURED BOTTLES.Graham texture Non-textured bottle
Accountability isn’t just something we 
talk about at Graham Packaging. It’s 
something we practice every day. As a 
plastic packaging manufacturer, we have a 
responsibility to constantly find new ways 
to reduce the environmental impact of our 
facilities. It starts with keeping people 
safe. It continues when those same people 
believe in our mission and carry it beyond 
the workplace into their everyday lives.
34OUR  
operations
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSHEALTH & SAFETY
Engaging the Ones  
Who Matter Most
Our people are our greatest asset, and their health and welfare are 
of utmost importance. For us, “health and safety” isn’t just a metric. 
It’s who we are as an organization, from our employee culture to the 
way we conduct business. Safety is a core value — one that’s more 
vital than cost, quality and productivity.
Our collective vision is to be the world leader in environmental health, safety and sustainability. To achieve 
that vision, we’ve transformed our company over the past six years, bringing safety into every conversation 
at every level of our organization. We’ve shifted our focus from being purely reactive to doggedly proactive. 
This shift requires us to continually monitor our own behavior — and the behavior of others — to ensure that 
we’re working safely and avoiding risks.
By keeping safety top of mind, we’ve seen a significant decrease in recordable injuries. In fact, the rate 
of injuries requiring medical treatment above and beyond first aid has been reduced by 62% since 2014. 
Our recordable injury rate is also far below the national average for both private industry and the plastic 
industry in general. Aside from the most significant result of ensuring safety on the job, this reduction in 
injuries has also led to benefits like freeing up liability costs that can now be reinvested in our company.
35OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSWE’RE ON A JOURNEY 
TOWARD A “NO HARM”  
WORK ENVIRONMENT,  
AND WE WON’T BE 
SATISFIED UNTIL THAT 
GOAL IS ACHIEVED 
AND SUSTAINED.3.30 3.20 3.00 2.90 2.70 4.40 4.60 4.30 
3.70 3.70 
0.91 1.11 0.91 0.79 0.55 0.55 
 - 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Private Industry Plastics Industry GPCRecordable Injury Rate at Graham vs. Comparable Companies*
*Source Data1036Peer-to-Peer Accountability Program
With engagement comes accountability, so we  
view employee engagement as the biggest factor  
in our safety success. That’s why we developed the  
peer-to-peer accountability program. It starts by 
training people to recognize risk when they see it, then 
it empowers them to proactively address any unsafe 
condition or behavior. 
This program encourages every Graham employee to 
be accountable to themselves, to each other and to our 
company, which includes speaking up when they see 
something unsafe and having crucial conversations with 
their peers about their observations.Through our peer-to-peer accountability program, we 
help people be completely transparent without fear 
of repercussions. The person who reports the unsafe 
behavior is kept anonymous, and the person who was 
acting in an unsafe manner won’t be disciplined. 
Graham leadership uses these peer-to-peer reported 
incidents as learning opportunities. It’s a way for 
employees to learn from small mistakes before they 
become big mistakes. Most importantly, we want to 
drive the crucial conversations that require employee 
engagement and ownership.
OUR POLICY IS SEE SOMETHING, 
SAY SOMETHING. BUT ALWAYS   
DO SOMETHING.
OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSOn our journey to more sustainable operations, we see reducing the 
carbon footprints of our facilities as a key initiative now and in the future. 
We’re already working across our organization to lower our energy  
and water usage, as well as reduce our waste to landfill. By challenging 
ourselves to come up with concrete, creative solutions, we plan to 
reduce our energy usage by 25% over the next 10 years and hope  
to one day eliminate our waste to landfills altogether. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Focusing on Sustainable
Operations 
37OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSLIGHTING & SENSOR UPGRADES
• 25 plants converted to LED or low-energy  
fluorescent lights
• 8 plants installed sensor-activated lights
WATER CONSERVATION
• Conserved water by leveraging  
wastewater for cooling systems
• Kicked off projects to reduce overall  
water consumptionENERGY SAVINGS
• Installed systems to regulate energy use,  
including climate control
• Upgraded to more energy-efficient plant equipment, 
including breakroom appliances
• Worked with local energy companies on solutionsCO2 REDUCTION
• Reduced CO2 emissions by more than  
5% at select locations from 2010-2017Snapshot of Our Sustainable Manufacturing Efforts
CO2Materials
Opportunities
• Tap into new sources of post-consumer resin
• Up the percentage of recycled content in products and packaging
• Reuse all post-industrial resin (by-products and scraps)
In 2018, the total weight of all materials we consumed, including the 220 million pounds used for packaging, 
was 1.6 billion pounds, and approximately 12% of these materials came from renewable sources. The total 
weight of all raw materials used to produce our products was approximately 1.4 billion pounds, and 6% 
came from post-consumer recycled material. Two percent of our total PET resin came from post-consumer 
recycled material, while 10% of our HDPE resin came from post-consumer recycled material.
38OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSCAME FROM RENEWABLE SOURCESOF CONSUMED MATERIALS~12%
CAME FROM POST-CONSUMER RECYCLED MATERIALOF RAW MATERIALS6%
CAME FROM POST-CONSUMER RECYCLED MATERIALOF PET RESIN2%
CAME FROM POST-CONSUMER RECYCLED MATERIALOF HDPE RESIN10%Energy Usage
Opportunities
•  Lower overall energy consumption by 25% over the next 10 years as committed  
to through the Department of Energy’s Better Plants Program
• Identify and implement renewable sources of energy
We track three main sources of energy within our operation: electrical power, natural 
gas and propane. In 2018, electrical power accounted for 90% of our energy use, 
with the combination of natural gas and propane making up the other 10%. The total 
amount of energy consumption across all sources that came from nonrenewable 
sources equaled 4,413 TJ.
Energy intensity is considered the amount of energy consumption divided by the 
total pounds of product produced. When taking all our facilities into account in North 
America, Europe, South America and Asia, we use 3.2 MJ of energy for every one 
pound of product we produce.OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSFUEL SOURCENORTH 
AMERICAEUROPESOUTH 
AMERICAASIA TOTAL
Electrical  
Usage (MWh)1,008,615 55,858 38,147 1,753 1,104,373 
Natural Gas 
Usage (mmBTU)352,843 19,949 — — 372,792 
Propane  
Usage (gal)343,861 7,265 97,364 — 448,491 
ENERGY SOURCE TOTAL % OF TOTAL
Electrical Usage (TJ) 3,976 90%
Natural Gas Usage (TJ) 394 9%
Propane Usage (TJ) 43 1%
Absolute Energy 
Consumption (TJ)4,413  100%SPOTLIGHT ON 
the Better  
Plants Program
Recently, we joined the U.S. Department  
of Energy’s Better Plants Program.  
This program works with manufacturers 
like us to develop strategies for saving 
energy. It provides us with dedicated 
technical experts who can help us set 
benchmarks and identify opportunities 
to save energy. They also offer in-plant 
training and conferences where they teach 
our employees how to develop, implement 
and replicate energy-saving projects. 
Through this program, we have committed 
to reducing our energy usage by 25%  
over 10 years.
GRAHAM PACKAGING COMPANY’S COMMITMENT TO  
IMPROVING ITS ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY BY 25% OVER  
10 YEARS ESTABLISHES THE COMPANY AS A LEADER  
IN EFFICIENCY AND HELPS STRENGTHEN THE  
NATION’S MANUFACTURING COMPETITIVENESS.
-  VALRI LIGHTNER , Acting Director, Advanced Manufacturing Office,  
U.S. Department of Energy
39Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)
Opportunities
• Lower energy consumption
• Reduce transportation needs
• Identify and use less carbon-intensive materials
We recognize that climate change is real, and as the global community begins to think strategically about how to combat this complex issue, 
we’re taking steps to measure and report on a big contributing factor: greenhouse gas emissions.
Gases like carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases are called greenhouse gases because they trap heat in  
Earth’s atmosphere. Larger concentrations of these gases in the atmosphere are the result of larger emissions, often from  
manufacturing facilities. 
Carbon dioxide is the most common greenhouse gas, making up 82% of all GHG emissions in 2017.7 It enters the atmosphere primarily 
through the burning of fossil fuels but also through certain chemical reactions.
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol regulates the release of these gases by providing standards, guidance and training to help businesses 
manage their GHG emissions. They’ve classified these emissions into three main types: scope 1, 2 and 3. 
Three Scopes of GHG Emissions
• Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned or controlled sources
• Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy
• Scope 3: All indirect emissions present in the value chain of the company
40OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSSF6CH4HFCs CO2N2O PFCs
Fugitive EmmissionsStationary Sources
On-site Landfills and 
Wastewater TreatmentVehicle and Equipment
Purchased SteamPurchased Heating
Purchased CoolingPurchased Electricity
Contracted Solid Waste 
and WastewaterEmployee Commuting
Transmission and 
Distribution LossesBusiness Air TravelCommon Sources of Greenhouse Gas EmissionsTracking Scope 1 & 2 Emissions
In 2018, our scope 1 emissions totaled 28,334 MT of CO2e, while our scope 2 emissions totaled 491,085 MT  
of CO2e. There are several ways we’re looking to reduce GHG emissions in the coming year.
Lightweighting
Projects like lightweighting allow more product to be shipped in one truck, reducing the number of trucks 
needed to transport the same amount of product and thus lowering GHG emissions from the burning of fuel.
Diverting Plastics From Landfills
Our Graham Recycling Center recycles #2 HDPE bottles into post-consumer resin. This facility collects and 
uses approximately 45 million pounds of recycled material per year, diverting approximately 300 million 
plastic containers from landfills each year.
Developing Less Carbon-Intensive Products
Our ThermaSet® heat-set process allows PET containers to be used in hot fill, pasteurized and retort 
processes in place of glass containers. When comparing the end-to-end production of ThermaSet PET jars 
versus glass jars, PET jars had a 210 kg CO2e reduction in carbon footprint.
41OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSCustomer Colocation
Customer colocation takes the transportation factor out altogether, allowing us to improve collaboration  
with our customers while saving valuable resources.
Reduced Energy Usage
We’ve committed to lowering our energy usage by 25% over the next 10 years as part of  
the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Plants Program.*Results from critically-reviewed, ISO 14044 LCA Study Comparint ThermaSet® PET jars to glass jars.Quantifying the sustainability of ThermaSet® PET with Life Cycle Assessment
16%  
LESS ENERGY93%  
LESS AIR  
PARTICULATES55%  
REDUCTION IN  
SMOG EMISSIONS38%  
SMALLER CARBON 
FOOTPRINTOperational Waste & Water Consumption
Opportunities
• Implement zero waste programs and resin capture
• Continue recycling efforts
• Reuse water as part of cooling process
Operational waste and water consumption are two other important factors in the 
overall sustainability of our manufacturing facilities. In 2018, we sent 5.952 metric 
tons of material to landfills and used 1,521 megaliters of surface water. We’re working 
toward reducing our landfill waste, while our water conservation efforts are mostly 
centered around reusing wastewater as part of our cooling processes.OUR OPERATIONS
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR OPERATIONSSPOTLIGHT ON 
the Zero Waste 
Program
In 2019, we plan to test a Zero Waste 
Program at several pilot plants. This 
program will include workshops on 
comprehensive recycling and other ways 
to reduce our overall waste to landfill 
numbers. We have a larger rollout planned 
for 2020 when we hope to involve all 
Graham Packaging facilities. 
42To show our commitment to the global 
sustainability effort, we’re members of 
several organizations that advocate for 
responsible plastic packaging, better 
recycling habits and reduced energy 
usage. We’ll continue to work shoulder 
to shoulder with these organizations to 
reshape our industry and its impact on 
the planet.
43OUR  
partnerships
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PARTNERSHIPS44 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  OUR PARTNERSHIPSWe sit on the APR PET and Olefin Technical 
committees. Our role in this partnership is 
focused on PET and HDPE plastics and how we 
can help support APR membership through the 
development of technical resources, technical 
studies and education.
We’re one of the largest plastic manufacturing 
companies that have signed the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s New Plastics Economy Global 
Commitment. This commitment will bring 
together all our resources to reduce global 
waste and help our customers reach their 
sustainability goals by 2025.We provide industry leadership on the 
PIA Recycling Committee, while also 
playing an active role on the PIA Executive 
Board of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic 
Packaging Materials Committee and on the 
Environmental Health and Safety Committee.
The Recycling Partnership is an industry-
funded, national nonprofit organization that 
leverages corporate funding to transform 
recycling in states, cities and communities. 
We’ve made a sizeable donation to support 
them, and we will work alongside them in 
the fight to keep plastic out of landfills.We’ve made a commitment to partner with the 
Department of Energy to reduce our energy 
consumption by 25% over the next 10 years.
The Sustainable Packaging Coalition® is a 
leading voice on sustainable packaging that 
focuses on end-to-end sustainability initiatives. 
As part of this organization, we will collaborate 
with other industry leaders and share knowledge 
to help everyone take more meaningful action 
toward packaging sustainability. We’re members of several sustainability-focused organizations, 
and together, we’re working to promote environmentally 
responsible behavior and overcome the barriers that prevent  
us from living healthier, more sustainable lives.MEMBERSHIPS & ASSOCIATIONS 
Broadening Our ReachOUR PARTNERSHIPS
LOOKING AHEAD
GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  LOOKING AHEADLooking Ahead
As we look toward the future, we know there’s work to be done to ensure our planet is 
safe and clean for the generations who will follow us. We’ve embraced our role in helping 
to preserve the planet, and we will work tirelessly to find new, comprehensive solutions 
to divert plastic bottles from landfills, reduce ocean-bound plastic and promote 
recycling throughout the world.
Through formal commitments, like signing the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New 
Plastics Economy Global Commitment and joining the U.S. Department of Energy’s 
Better Plants Program, and through grass roots efforts in our local communities, we’re 
taking steps to establish Graham Packaging as a leader in sustainability.
This report isn’t meant to be viewed as a tabulation of results. Rather, it’s a 
benchmarking tool – one that shows us where we are today and reminds us of where we 
want to go. Whether you’re a customer, manufacturing partner or member of the wider 
community, we hope you’ll join us in our commitment to a more sustainable future.
451. https://news.nationalgeographic.com/2017/07/plastic-produced-recycling-waste-ocean-trash-debris-environment/
2. https://www.eunomia.co.uk/reports-tools/recycling-who-really-leads-the-world-issue-2/
3. https://www.epa.gov/facts-and-figures-about-materials-waste-and-recycling/national-overview-facts-and-figures-materials
4. https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2018-07/documents/2015_smm_msw_factsheet_07242018_fnl_508_002.pdf
5. https://www.epa.gov/facts-and-figures-about-materials-waste-and-recycling/plastics-material-specific-data
6. https://www.epa.gov/smm/recycling-economic-information-rei-report
7. https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases
8. https://ncrarecycles.org/2019/03/oregon-composters-push-back/
9. https://www.foodengineeringmag.com/articles/97269-consumers-demanding-more-sustainable-packaging
10. https://www.bls.gov/iif/oshwc/osh/os/summ1_00_2017.htm
11. http://www.fao.org/3/a-bb144e.pdfSources
46 GRAHAM PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  |  SOURCESSOURCES© 2019 Graham Packaging Company. All rights reserved.