CONSCIOUS 
ACTIONS 
Sustainability 
Report 20142 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014TABLE OF CONTENTS
Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2014
INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO 3
About H&M Conscious 6
Key performance 7
Top news 8
The impacts along our value chain 9
How we organise sustainability 11
Joint forces for solutions 12
OUR COMMITMENTS
Provide fashion for conscious customers 13
Choose and reward responsible partners 27
Be ethical 52
Be climate smart 68
Reduce, reuse, recycle 77
Use natural resources responsibly 87
Strengthen communities 101
INFORMATION
Auditor review statement  112
How we report 114
Get in touch 1173 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO
What does sustainability mean to you?
My grandfather founded H&M in 1947. 
He often spoke about the importance 
of long-term thinking, not just about 
maximising short-term profits. He 
wanted to look at our customers and 
colleagues and feel good about the 
business – that it was run the right 
way. As CEO, I have a long-term per -
spective on H&M. And just like my 
grandfather, when one day looking 
back at my time at H&M, I want to 
feel proud of what we achieved. That 
we offer our customers great value for 
money, but also that we have a posi -
tive impact on the world.
How does sustainability fit into 
H&M’s business idea?
Our business idea is to offer fashion 
and quality at the best price. It’s about 
the best value, not the cheapest price. 
Sustainability is an important part 
of this. We know that our customers, 
just as our colleagues, care more and 
more about it. And while we must be 
realistic about the fact that most cus -
tomers are not prepared to pay more 
for added sustainability value, change how fashion is made. This is certainly a big 
challenge, but also a great opportunity. We want 
to go from a linear production model to a circular 
one. And we have to do it at scale. At the same time, 
we need to make sure that our growth helps the 
millions of people along our entire value chain to 
better lives and further improves their working con -
ditions. Promoting fair living wages in our indus -
try is an important part of this. Just as creating 
transparency, so that we can know exactly where 
each part of our products comes from as well as for 
our customers to be able to make truly informed 
choices. 
Garment production can be a development escala -
tor that show communities the way out of poverty. 
It’s creating a lot of jobs, particularly for women. It’s 
often their first paid job, so it’s very often a great 
driver for independence and liberation. 
That being said, we can’t just lean back and be 
happy with the fact that there are a lot of jobs being 
created. It’s a good starting point. From there, we 
need to ensure that these are good jobs that actually 
contribute to the development of people and their 
communities. And there are still a lot of other chal -
lenges connected to the garment industry – water 
impacts or textile waste just to mention a few. It’s no 
easy task, but we need to continue tackling these, 
do it faster and together with a whole range of dif -
ferent stakeholders. 
You mentioned fair living wages. H&M 
launched quite an ambitious roadmap 
in 2013 – how is it progressing?
We are seeing positive developments 
on many fronts. We started to test 
the so called Fair Wage Method, 
developed by the independent Fair 
Wage Network, in three role model 
factories, two in Bangladesh and one 
in Cambodia. These are factories 
where we have a five-year commit -
ment and 100% of the capacity so we 
can have time to test this method and 
create best practice examples for our 
suppliers and our entire industry. 
Although it’s still early in the process, 
the initial results from the first fac -
tory that’s been evaluated are promis -
ing. Overtime has been reduced by 
over 40%, wages have increased, pay 
structures have improved just as the 
dialogue between the management 
and workers. At the same time pro -
ductivity has also gone up. 
Based on what we have learned, we aim 
to scale this work up to all our strategic 
suppliers by 2018 at the latest, the first 
60 of them already in 2015. I am convinced that it will become an 
important differentiator in the future. 
But much more than that, in order to 
remain a successful business, we need 
to keep growing – and at the same time  
respect the planetary boundaries. 
So, there is no question that it makes 
clear business sense to invest in our 
sustainability.
What are the biggest challenges?
The fashion industry is too depend -
ent on natural resources and we must 4 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO
We also continued our dialogue with 
governments. They need to be on 
board, for example to adjust minimum 
wages regularly and to create legal 
frameworks for fair and functional 
collective bargaining processes. I have 
myself met with the Prime Ministers 
of Bangladesh and Cambodia, and 
most recently with the Bangladeshi 
Minister of Commerce to discuss 
these topics.
We have also taken another impor -
tant step in aligning with a number 
of other brands on a joint approach 
towards fair living wages. And 
not least, we are investing a lot of 
resources into empowering workers 
through better skills and to enable 
them to negotiate their wages and 
working conditions directly with 
their employers. As part of this, we 
set a unique goal for all of our strate -
gic suppliers to have democratically 
elected workplace representation in 
place by 2018 at the latest. 
How about the closed loop? 
In 2013, we launched our global gar -
ment collecting initiative. H&M cus -tomers can leave used garments from 
any brand to be reused or recycled at 
almost all H&M stores in all our mar -
kets. This year alone, we have more 
than doubled the amount of garments 
that we collected this way and have 
now reached over 7,600 tonnes. That’s 
as much fabric as in about 38 million 
t-shirts. Although we don’t make prof -
its with the collected clothes, it makes 
clear business sense: creating a closed 
loop will mean immediate access 
to environmentally conscious raw 
materials for new garments. In 2014, 
we already launched the first closed 
loop products made with 20% recycled 
cotton. More than 20% isn’t currently 
possible without losing quality. But 
there are a number of interesting 
ideas and innovators working to over -
come this and other challenges that 
we are working with. 
You mentioned transparency as a key 
focus. How can transparency drive 
sustainability?
I believe that transparency is the 
starting point for all change. For 
example, we are working with other 
brands in the Sustainable Apparel POPULATION
ECONOMY
RESOURCES
CIRCULAR ECONOMY5 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Coalition on the HiGG Index, a tool to measure 
apparel and footwear products, brands or suppli -
ers on their sustainability performance. It takes the 
entire value chain into account, from raw materials 
to end-of-life solutions. We hope that this will result 
in consumer labelling that will allow customers 
to compare products, even from different brands, 
based on the same standards in an easily accessible  
way. I believe that this kind of transparency will 
ultimately make sustainability a key driver in our 
industry, as we all are competitive and want to 
make our customers the best offer.
Transparency and mutual trust are also crucial 
with our suppliers. In 2013, we published our sup -
plier list and we have now added the first second-
tier suppliers. As far as I know, that’s unique in 
our industry. And we keep working hard to further 
increase the transparency across our entire value 
chain, down to the raw materials.
How do you at H&M manage this process practi -
cally in a big company like yours?
Firstly, sustainability needs to be integrated into all 
parts of the business, be it design, sales or produc -
tion. There have to be clear sustainability goals on 
which these functions are measured, and they need 
to have the same priority as other goals. Therefore, 
we have integrated sustainability goals into our 
major performance measurement tool. Our head  
of sustainability is part of the management group  
and reports progress made regularly to our Board  
of Directors. In other words: we think it is very 
important that sustainability is completely inte -
grated into the business and part of the company’s 
DNA and values. 
Secondly, it’s very important to dare to take a long-
term view. Good sustainability work will require big 
investments. We will have to be prepared to sacrifice  
short-term profits for long-term success. 
Thirdly, we have to have a collaborative mindset. 
Meeting our sustainability goals is not an easy job 
and often nothing that one company can drive in 
isolation; we have to work together – with other 
brands but also with other stakeholders such as 
trade unions or NGOs and innovators. All of this 
forms the basis for taking those actions that will 
continue to make the right difference.
Thank you for your interest in our Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report 2014!
Karl-Johan Persson, CEO, 
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, Stockholm, March 2015 INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO
6 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
About H&M Conscious
At H&M, we love to bring 
fashion to the world in an 
exciting and conscious way. 
With all of our brands, we 
offer fashion at outstanding 
value – but not at any price. 
We are a value-driven and 
customer focused company 
and we want to help our cus -
tomers explore their personal 
style. We celebrate differences 
and diversity, both inside 
and outside of our own walls. 
We care for others and how 
we affect the world around 
us. To make people wear our 
products with pride we have 
to be conscious in all of our 
actions.This is why we have created H&M Conscious. With 
seven commitments at its heart, this is the name 
for everything we do for a more sustainable fashion 
future. It’s a mission built on passion, long-term 
thinking and teamwork. Everything we do needs 
to be economically, socially and environmentally 
sustainable. All highly interconnected. All equally 
important for our future growth.
Our planet is facing scarcity issues on many fronts 
and too many people still live in poverty. Clean 
water, climate change, textile waste, wages and over -
time in supplier factories are some of the key chal -
lenges in our industry.
Making more sustainable fashion choices available, 
affordable and attractive to as many people as pos -
sible is our starting point. 
We want to use our scale to bring about systemic 
change to our industry and across the lifecycle of our 
products. Together with our colleagues, customers, 
stakeholders, business partners and peers, we have 
the opportunity to bring about serious change – all 
the way from improving the livelihood of a cotton 
farmer to lowering the impacts from washing and 
drying our clothes. Ultimately, we want to make 
fashion sustainable and sustainability fashionable. 
Hundreds of Conscious Actions – big and small, 
short- and long-term – are dedicated to putting our 
commitments into practice. H&M’s Conscious Exclusive Collection 
is one of them. But there are many more. 
Working to ensure fair living wages 
across the textile industry or to achieve 
a closed loop for garments, for example. 
This is our 13th sustainability report. 
We are excited and proud of the Con -
scious Actions we have taken and what 
we have achieved in this mission so far.
But we also know that together with 
our entire industry, there is more to do. This report outlines the progress of 
some of our most important Conscious 
Actions. It has been prepared in accor -
dance with the GRI G4 guidelines (core).
Please see page 114 for further details 
on how we report. We hope that you 
will find the reading interesting. 
Thanks for taking your time to learn 
more about H&M Conscious.By 2030  there will 
be 5 billion  people in 
consuming middle classes 
and they will use 2 times  
our planet’s resources
OUR SEVEN COMMITMENTS
1. Provide fashion for conscious customers
2. Choose and reward responsible partners
3. Be ethical
4. Be climate smart
5. Reduce, reuse, recycle
6. Use natural resources responsibly
7. Strengthen communities7 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
Key performance 2014
TONNES OF GARMENTS COLLECTED  
FOR REUSE OR RECYCLING THROUGH OUR IN-
STORE GARMENT COLLECTING PROGRAMME
2013 20143,047t7,684t
H&M is the world’s   
no. 1 user of organic 
cotton  according to Textile 
Exchange’s latest Organic 
Cotton Market Report 2013.7,684 tonnes  of used 
garments collected – that’s as 
much fabric as in more than 
38 million t-shirts .
SHARE OF MORE SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS
Included are all materials classified as conscious 
materials, such as certified organic or recycled fabrics, 
as well as Better Cotton. 9%
11%
14%2012
2013
20142020
(Goal)MORE SUSTAINABLE COTTON*  
IN % OF TOTAL COTTON USE
20117.6%
201211.4%
201315.8%
201421.2%
*Certified organic cotton, Better Cotton (BCI) or 
recycled cotton. In 2014, organic cotton represented 
13.7% of our total cotton use.2020
(Goal)-20%ELECTRICITY USE REDUCTION PER H&M 
(BRAND) STORE SQM COMPARED TO 2007 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
-8%
-10%
-14% -14%-12%SHARE OF RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY IN ALL 
OUR STORES, OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES
18%27%approx.
80%*
* 100% in all markets where this is feasible and 
renewable electricity is credibly available. This is 
currently not the case, for example, in China or Peru.2015
(Goal)
2014 2013
We are going 
all in for renewable 
electricity  – wherever 
this is credibly available 
and feasible. We expect this 
to cover about 80% of our 
total electricity use by 2015. PROGRESS IN SUPPLIER FACTORY 
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE  
(IN ICOC SCORES)
ALL FACTORIESSTRA TEGIC FACTORIES
77.377.88179.180.182.7
2012 2013 2014100%
CHANGE IN TOTAL CO2 e EMISSIONS TO 
PREVIOUS YEAR IN % (SCOPE 1+2) VS. 
GROWTH IN SALES (IN LOCAL CURRENCIES)
NET SALESEMISSIONS
+10%
+6%
-4%+12%
+9%+18%
2012 2013 20148 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
Top news 2014
76%  of our colleagues 
are women . And so are 
72% of our managers .We launched our first 
Conscious Denim  
collection, on average using 
56% less water  
and 58% less energy  
than comparable denim 
– on top of being made with 
materials such as organic 
or recycled cotton.
We have entered an agreement  with the 
International Labour Organisation (ILO)  
to work together to strengthen fair negotiations and 
working conditions  in global garment production.We set the unique goal  for all our strategic 
supplier factories  to have democratically elected 
workplace representation  in place by 2018.We launched a new animal welfare  
roadmap  and set ambitious goals to use 100% 
certified wool  from 2018 and certified 
down  already from 2016 onwards.
We created about 
16,000  
new jobs  globally
 in our stores, offices and 
warehouses alone.
Recycled 
polyester  is 
often made of 
PET bottles . 
And we used 
the equivalent 
of almost  
40 million 
bottles .We donated over 
4 million  
garments  to 
charitable causes .We have taken another 
major step in creating 
supply chain 
transparency . 
Now fabric and yarn 
suppliers-to-our-
suppliers  who make about 
35% of our products 
are on our public 
supplier factory list .
9 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
The impacts along our value chain
We have stores and suppliers 
all around the world. Without 
a doubt, we have an impact on 
these communities. H&M Con   s-
cious works to embrace positive 
impacts and to reduce negative  
ones along our entire value chain.  
It is usually easiest to control 
the things that happen in our 
own operations, but often these 
are not the most critical impacts. 
So, often we need to team up 
with others to make the differ -
ence that matters the most.Our challenge : Sustainability starts at 
the drawing board. We need to create 
fashion without compromising design, 
quality, price or sustainability. Knowing 
how our choices of materials and looks 
impact the environment and people right 
from the start is the name of the game 
– just as minimising what ends up on 
the cutting floor.Our challenge : Working conditions and 
intense water and chemical use are con -
cerns associated with processing raw 
materials (e.g. cotton). By making the right 
choices we can significantly reduce these 
impacts. We need to use raw materials as 
efficiently as possible and we are working 
towards a closed loop. Through our active 
involvement with the Better Cotton Initia -
tive (BCI), Textile Exchange and UNICEF 
we support further improvements.Our challenge : From making yarn to final  
fabrics, there are concerns regarding water,  
chemicals and working conditions as well 
as greenhouse gas emissions. Generally 
speaking, we do not have direct business 
relationships with mills but we work with 
organisations such as Solidaridad and 
the Natural Resources Defense Council 
(NRDC) to help mills improve their per -
formance. And we have already started 
to integrate fabric and yarn mills that 
are involved in making about 35% of our 
products into our supplier audit system, 
aiming for 50% by 2015.*Climate and water impacts are based on the estimated 
H&M value chain footprint from our total use of cotton, 
organic cotton, polyester and viscose in 2011/2012. 
For the footprint analysis, primary and secondary data 
has been used and the principles of the Lifecycle Assess -
ment methodology has been applied. The remaining 
5% climate impacts result from packaging. The water 
footprint is based on the Water Footpring Network’s 
methodology and includes green, blue and grey water 
footprint. Deviation from 100% due to rounding effects.
DESIGN
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
High 0% 0% MediumRAW MATERIALS
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
Medium 12% 87% HighFABRIC AND YARN PRODUCTION
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
Low 36% 6% HighCheck out where in the world 
the different stages of our 
value chain take place on an 
interactive world map here10 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our challenge : Transport represents 
approximately 6% of the greenhouse 
gas emissions in a garment’s lifecycle. 
By choosing the right modes of transport, 
we can reduce this impact further. And, 
as a big customer, we also use our influence 
to promote environmental consciousness 
at the transport companies we work with.Our challenge : Over 1.6 million people work 
in our supplier factories, 64% of whom are 
women. Together with our suppliers we 
have made great improvements in develop -
ing high social and environmental stand -
ards. Achieving fair living wages, reducing 
overtime and ensuring workplace safety are 
key focus areas for our industry. We use our 
influence to promote human rights, and 
not only monitor factory compliance but 
also train our suppliers and their workers, 
promote industrial relations and social dia -
logue and collaborate with organisations 
such as the International Labour Organisa -
tion (ILO), the Fair Labor Association (FLA),  
the Fair Wage Network and the Ethical 
Trading Initiative (ETI).Our challenge : We have over 3,500 stores 
across 55 countries. As we grow, enter new 
markets and employ new people we need 
to make sure that we live up to our values 
throughout and ensure an inspiring and 
healthy working environment for our col -
leagues. Our customers rightfully expect 
high quality products and shopping expe -
riences. As part of that, we need to ensure 
the privacy of their and our colleagues’ 
data and advertise in a responsible way.Our challenge : Caring for our clothes 
at home represents about 26% of all the 
greenhouse gas emissions in a garment’s 
life. Our challenge is to create affordable 
fashion that our customers will love from 
season to season and that is easy to care 
for in a low-impact way. And we need to 
inspire our customers to be more conscious 
in the way they care for their garments 
and make it easy for them to not let fashion 
end up in landfills.INTRODUCTION
The impacts and challenges along our value chain
GARMENT PRODUCTION
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
Medium 6% 1% HighTRANSPORT
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
Medium 6% 0% MediumSALES
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
High 10% 0% HighUSE
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
IMPACT
Low 26% 8% High11 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
Our Head of Sustainability reports dir -
ectly to our CEO and the responsibility 
for the implementation of our sustain -
ability strategy is held by our executive 
management team. We have a total of 
around 170 colleagues who work with 
sustainability as a core task. At our head 
office, our sustainability team consists 
of more than 20 people responsible for 
developing global targets, reviewing 
progress, and encouraging and advising 
all relevant departments on the develop -
ment and implementation of prioritised 
Conscious Actions based on continued 
stakeholder engagement, business intel  - 
ligence and innovation research. We do 
this in an annual formalised process in 
which our sustainability team presents 
priorities, new trends and recommended 
goals and actions to each department 
that has a critical impact on the matter. 
With this support, in turn each depart -
ment is responsible for developing and 
carrying out their Conscious Actions to 
fulfill our seven commitments. Besides 
these department specific goals, all 
function heads and country managers 
are measured against our 4C scorecard 
(Cash, Customers, Colleagues, Con -
scious), which gives all four areas equal 
importance.Twice a year, our CEO, CFO and Head 
of Sustainability review the progress 
made. With the same frequency, our 
Head of Sustainability reports per -
formance against key sustainability 
indicators to our Board of Directors. 
Over 100 people from our sustainabil -
ity team operate from 21 locally-based 
production offices around the world. 
They work directly with our suppliers 
to support them in complying with our 
Code of Conduct and help to make our 
supply chain more sustainable. About 
50 “Conscious Coordinators” work in 
our different departments and country 
offices supporting the implementation 
of our global sustainability strategy 
in their organisations.We have around 
170 colleagues  
who work with  
sustainability  
as their core task.How we organise sustainability
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CENTRAL SUSTAINABILITY 
DEPARTMENTLOCAL SUSTAINABILITY 
FUNCTIONSOTHER SENIOR
EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONSBI-ANNUAL
PERFORMANCE 
REPORTING
DEFINE 
PRIORITIES ANNUALLY 
BASED ON BUSINESS 
INTELLIGENCE 
AND INNOVATION 
PROCESSHEAD OF  
SUSTAINABILITYCEO12 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INTRODUCTION
Joint forces for solutions
Diversity and a multitude of voices lead 
to innovation. Stakeholder insights help 
us prioritise the Conscious Actions we 
take and the resources we invest. This 
is why a constant and open dialogue 
with our stakeholders is so important 
to us. Throughout the year, we hold 
regular dialogues with our different 
stakeholders.*
We do this on a day-to-day basis, 
through regular roundtables on a 
global and local level, focused stake -
holder reviews and strategy consul -
tations, dedicated surveys, media 
analyses and participation in several 
multi-stakeholder initiatives, as part 
of our strategic business intelligence, 
and through our wage advisory board.
But more than that, we seek to join 
forces with our stakeholders such as 
our peers, suppliers, NGOs and many 
others in order to tackle some of the 
major challenges in our industry – 
challenges that affect everyone along 
our value chain and that no company 
can solve on its own.
*Including customers, colleagues, communities, 
suppliers and their employees, industry peers, 
media, NGOs, IGOs, policymakers and investors.Such collaboration can also help to increase the level 
of influence we have and promote systemic change. 
To this end, we are involved in a number of local and 
global industry collaborations, partnerships and multi-
stakeholder initiatives, such as the Better Cotton 
Initiative (BCI), Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), 
Fair Labor Association (FLA), Fair Wage Network 
(FWN), Better Work and the Roadmap to Zero Dis -
charge of Hazardous Chemicals, to mention just a few.
>hm.com/memberships
>hm.com/stakeholderdialogueAWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
Here are some of the indices, rankings and awards  
that assessed and recognised our sustainability  
performance during the year.
World’s biggest user of organic cotton  
according to Textile Exchange Organic Cotton  
Market Report 2013
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
FTSE4Good
World’s Most Ethical Companies
Global 100 List
Interbrand Global Green Brands
CDP’s Global 500 Climate Performance  
Leadership Index
Global Fairness Award*
Pontus Schultz prize for a more  
humane economy*
United Nations Association of New York  
Humanitarian of the Year award**
>hm.com/whatotherssay
*Recipient was H&M’s CEO Karl-Johan Persson
**Recipient was H&M’s Chairman of the Board of Directors, Stefan Persson
13 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
 — COMMITMENT ONE —
Provide fashion  
for conscious customers
Fashion is a great way to express 
personality and a source of fun 
and inspiration. That said, it 
takes resources from the planet to pro-  
duce and care for our clothes. By mak -
ing conscious choices when designing 
our collections, we can really reduce 
these impacts – without compromising  
look, quality or comfort. This way, we 
can also make conscious choices in 
fashion easy and desirable for our cus -
tomers. It allows us to create added 
value to our offering – something that  
our customers are increasingly look -
ing for. But we don’t want to stop there.  
We also want to inspire our customers  
to wash at lower temperatures and 
make it easier for them to not let fash -
ion go to waste. Conscious fashion, 
however, is not just about our custom -
ers’ choices. We want to make all of our  
products more sustainable, piece by 
piece, all the way from the cotton farm. 14 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
Performance overviewCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
This dress is sold in 
around 200 H&M stores 
for EUR 199/USD 199 .
Organic linen is a soft 
and durable  material 
that comes from flax 
plants grown without 
chemical pesticides 
or fertilisers . It’s made with 64% 
organic linen .
When you don’t want 
or need it anymore, 
take it back  to any H&M 
store and we will give 
it a new life .At clevercare.info  
you can find inspiration on 
how to care for it with less 
impact  on our planet, so you 
can wear it and love it for 
many years  to come.
2012 2013 2014
H&M is the world’s no. 1 user 
of organic cotton  according to Textile 
Exchange’s latest Organic Cotton 
Market Report 2013.SHARE OF MORE  
SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS
Included are all materials classified as conscious 
materials, such as certified organic or recycled fabrics, 
as well as Better Cotton. 9%11%14%Key performance 2014
% OF MORE SUSTAINABLE  
COTTON ON OUR TOTAL COTTON USE
BETTER COTTON
ORGANIC COTTON
10.8%5%Total  
15.8%
2013Total  
7.6%
20112020
(Goal)
Total  
21.2%
20147.8%3.6%Total 
11.4%Total
100%
2012
Please find an independent assurance statement 
related to GRI G4 EN1 here (p. 112).7.5%
13.7%15 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overview
*For franchise markets at least one store per market. For new non-franchise stores, 
garment collecting systems must be implemented max. 6 months after opening.COMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
PROGRESS OVERVIEWDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – CONSCIOUS PRODUCTS & MATERIALS
1.1 Increase our use of more sustainable materials year-to-year
1.2 Use only cotton from more sustainable sources 2020
1.3 Replace solvent-based glues in production of shoes and other accessories 2020
1.4 Test water-based Polyurethane alternatives 2014
1.5 Include environmentally preferable production processes in the scope of our “Conscious” product label 2014
FOCUS – ANIMAL WELFARE (NEW)
1.6 NEW Use only wool from certified sources 2018
1.7 NEW Use only down from certified sources 2016
FOCUS – INSPIRE OUR CUSTOMER AND COLLEAGUES
1.8 Ensure that all of our own H&M stores provide garment collecting opportunities* year-to-year
1.9 Inspire our customers to conscious garment care year-to-year
1.10 Help set industry standard for measuring product sustainability  ongoing
1.11 Roll out new sustainability training programme for all of our colleagues 2015
1.12 Involve our customers and colleagues in our community work year-to-year16 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionFocus: Conscious products and materials
We want to make the better choice easy 
and attractive – throughout the entire 
life of a garment. Piece by piece, this 
reduces the impact that fashion has on 
the planet. We want to help increase 
the scale of innovations in the fashion 
industry. Together with our customers 
and our industry, we want to create 
a more sustainable fashion future in 
which fashion and sustainability no 
longer mean choosing one or the other.We are constantly on the lookout for 
innovative materials and processes 
that can make our products more sus -
tainable. Products with the highest 
sustainability credentials are labeled 
with our Conscious hang tag. These 
are made of at least 50% independently 
certified materials such as organic or 
recycled fabrics* or other innovative 
more sustainable fabrics such as 
Tencel®. Since 2014, we have expan -
ded the scope of the Conscious hang 
tag to also include products that are 
made using the most innovative tech-  
nology to reduce environmental impact 
in their continued production. Our goal 
is to increase the share of these fabrics 
in our total material use every year. 
With our Conscious Exclusive collec -
tion, we want to show that sustainable 
fashion is ready for the red carpet. 
With our permanent Conscious range, 
these innovations become part of the 
standard offer across the board, all 
year long. 
*Except recycled cotton fabric that comes from 
used clothes. To ensure high quality, currently 
only about 20% of recycled input material can 
be used – a challenge that we are working on 
as part of our goal to close the textile loop. COMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
17 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious Actions
1.2 Use only cotton from more 
sustainable sources
We use a wide range of organic or 
recycled fabrics and other more sus -
tainable materials like Tencel® and 
Lyocel. These are included in our 
conscious materials list. This list 
is based on third-party sources such 
as the environmental benchmark for 
fibres created by the organisation 
MADE-BY, and we regularly introduce 
new materials. A product consisting 
of at least 50% of materials from this 
list (20% for post-consumer recycled 
cotton) is labelled with our Conscious 
hang tag.* 
Together with Better Cotton, these 
materials now represent 14% (2013: 
11%, 2012: 9.1%) of our products’ total 
material use (8.8% organic materials, 
0.2% recycled materials and 5.0% 
others). Our goal is to increase this number each year. In doing so, we 
make more environmentally friendly 
choices available to our broad target 
groups and help lift these materials 
to scale and create demand for further 
innovation.
>hm.com/consciousmaterialsWe use more certified organic cot -
ton than anyone else in the world 
according to Textile Exchange’s latest 
Organic Cotton Market Report. 
During 2014, we increased our use 
of organic, recycled and Better Cotton 
so that these three sources now 
represent 21.2% of our total cotton 
use (2013: 15.8%, 2012: 11.4%). Our 
goal is to only use this kind of more 
sustainable cotton by 2020. 
Cotton is the material we use the 
most. It is a natural, renewable fibre 
that offers many advantages, but also 
comes with a number of concerns. 
For example, the amount of cotton 
needed for an average t-shirt requires 
about 11 bathtubs of water to grow. 
About 10% of all pesticides in the 
world are used in cotton production.* 
Organic cotton, Better Cotton and 
*Source: Pesticide Action Network*Products made with Better Cotton are not 
labelled with our Conscious hang tag as 
Better Cotton is currently not intended to 
be a product-labelling scheme.Focus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year  more to doDEADLINE STATUS
2020 on track1.1 Increase our use of more 
sustainable materialsrecycled cotton reduce these impacts 
significantly. Both organic and Better 
Cotton also help millions of farmers 
and their communities improve their 
standard of living. For example, Better 
Cotton trains farmers to grow more 
with less input of costy fertilisers 
or pesticides and thereby helps to 
improve both their profitability and 
the environment around them. Moving 
towards achieving our goals also 
means moving towards full trace -
ability of cotton by 2020. Amongst 
other benefits, this will ultimately 
help us to ensure that no cotton 
originally sourced from Uzbekistan, 
a country that has repeatedly been 
connected to child and forced labour 
in its cotton industry, is used in any 
of our products.
>hm.com/cottonSHARE OF MORE SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS
7.3%3.4%0.3%
20138.8%5.0%0.2%
2014
*Including Better CottonORGANICOTHER*RECYCLED% OF MORE SUSTAINABLE  
COTTON ON OUR TOTAL COTTON USE
BETTER COTTON
ORGANIC COTTON
10.8%5%Total  
15.8%
2013Total  
7.6%
20112020
(Goal)
Total  
21.2%
20147.8%3.6%Total 
11.4%Total
100%
2012
Please find an independent assurance statement 
related to GRI G4 EN1 here (p. 112).7.5%
13.7%18 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20141.3 Replace solvent-based 
glues in production of shoes 
and other accessories
Solvent-based glues are often used in 
shoe and accessory production and 
the VOCs (volatile organic compounds) 
that they contain can be harmful to 
factory workers if not handled with 
sufficient protection. Water-based 
glues can provide a better alternative. 
That’s why our goal was to make all 24.6%
of our shoes are now made 
with mainly water-based glues
DEADLINE STATUS
2020 more to do
our shoes, the biggest product group 
concerned, with these alternatives. 
That said, we learned that even fac -
tories that use water-based glues for 
most parts of a shoe might still use 
solvents for other parts to ensure 
quality. In addition, water-based glue 
may still contain solvents, even though 
these are much lower than for purely 
solvent-based glues. Consequently, 
we changed our goal from using water-  
based glues only to what actually Focus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
makes a difference for the workers: 
replacing solvents with better alter -
natives throughout. All in all we want  
to contribute to a lower level VOCs  
in our supplier factories. 
To achieve this, we are still working 
to make as many of our products as 
possible with such alternatives. In fact,  
we were able to increase the share 
of our shoes mainly made with water-
based glues from 20.9% in 2013 to 
24.6% in 2014. At the same time, we 
are working with our suppliers to 
ensure that when using water-based 
glues they choose the best possible 
options to ensure the lowest possible 
levels of VOCs. This alone, however, 
won’t do the job. Sometimes it is as 
easy as just changing the design and 
adding a seam instead of glueing. 
But we are also looking for and testing 
other options, such as thermo glues.
Shoes made with water-based glues 
require fewer safety precautions  
for workers.Our Conscious Actions
SHARE OF SHOES MADE WITH MAINLY 
WATER-BASED GLUES
201320.9%24.6%
201419 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Focus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
1.5 Include environmentally 
preferable production 
processes in the scope of 
our “Conscious” product label
Up until 2014, our Conscious label 
was limited to products made with 
more sustainable materials. Now it’s 
no longer just the material choice 
that make our products more sus -
tainable but also low-impact produc -
tion techniques that reduce the use 
of water, energy or chemicals. Denim 
in particular often requires water 
or energy intense treatments. That’s 
why, in autumn 2014, we launched 
our first Conscious Denim Collection. 
With this collection we developed 
innovative techniques based on a 
tool from Jeanologia, a Spain-based 
company. With this, we managed to 
use on average 56% less water and 
58% less energy as compared to other 
denim. In 2015, we will gradually 
apply this tool to all of our denim 
products. We will continue building 
on these and additional innovations in 
washing as well as dyeing processes. DEADLINE STATUS
2014 doneAnd we are making this more tran -
sparent to our customers: We have 
now included environmentally 
preferable production processes in 
the scope of our Conscious product 
label.Our Conscious Actions
1.4 Test water-based 
Polyurethane alternatives 
Polyurethane (PU) is a material often 
referred to as “vegan leather”. The 
downside is that it usually contains 
solvents requiring workers to wear 
protective gear and raising environ -
mental concerns. Water-based alter  - 
natives would allow for fewer precau -
tions. However, in the past, these 
alternatives did not provide sufficient DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
quality and durability. This is why we 
have been working for the past few 
years with several partners to find 
the required innovation. In 2014, we 
tested two new products made with 
a new water-based PU that Bayer 
Material Science developed in close 
colla  boration with us. The results 
were very promising. Moving forward, 
our goal is to scale up the use of water-
based PU materials to over ten prod -
ucts, including bags and shoes. This 
will guide us in setting future goals 
and milestones towards a full phase-
out of solvent-based PU.20 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategyOur missionCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Focus: Animal welfare (New)
Animal welfare is important to us 
and we want to make sure that animals 
are treated well. We have banned 
endangered and critical animal origin 
materials. We have joined forces with 
organisations such as Textile Exchange 
to help set the strictest possible stand  - 
ards not only for ourselves, but for our 
entire industry. We are committed to 
making positive contributions through  - 
out our value chain and in the textile 
industry. We have strict policies to enforce this 
belief across our business. We banned 
the use of real fur in our products many 
years ago and we are recognised as a 
Fur Free Alliance listed retailer. We 
updated our Animal Welfare & Material 
Ethics Policy in 2014 to include a range 
of updated and forward-thinking 
requirements. This includes a ban 
on the use of angora wool, exotic skins, 
horn and bones or materials from any 
endangered species. 
We enforce strict requirements for 
wool, leather, feathers and down and 
collaborate with key stakeholders to 
further strengthen these standards 
for our entire industry. And of course 
we continue to not test any of our own 
brand cosmetics on animals. To achieve 
lasting and industry wide impact, a key 
focus of our work is on collaborating 
with other stakeholders and achieving 
transparency and traceability for all 
materials of animal origin in our value 
chain. Collaborations help us improve 
and protect animal welfare, influence 
best practices, and ultimately allow 
customers make conscious choices.
21 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Focus: Animal welfare (New)
NEW  1.6 Use only wool from 
certified sourcesNEW 1.7 Use only down from 
certified sources
Wool is an important fibre known 
for its high-quality attributes and 
securing the highest standards of 
animal welfare is crucial. Many years 
ago, we were one of the first compa -
nies to ban the use of mulesing, a 
cruel practice originally introduced 
to protect sheep from worm infesta -
tions. At the moment, however, there 
is no global standard or certification 
for responsible wool production. 
To change this, in early 2014, we 
initiated a Responsible Wool Stand -
ard together with the NGO Textile 
Exchange, and the certification body 
Control Union as well as a number 
of other fashion brands and stake -
holders. The aim is to launch a  
certifiable global standard in 2015. 
The focus is on animal welfare.  
Our goal is then to only use certified 
wool from 2018 onwards. With this, 
we also aim to achieve full trace -
ability for wool and all other sorts 
of animal hair such as cashmere, We want our customers to feel reas  - 
sured that any down used in our 
products comes from responsible 
farms. We have had stringent require -
ments for down and feathers in place 
for many years now. We strictly for -
bid live plucking and force-feeding. 
The challenge has been to control 
the implementation of these require -
ments in a sometimes complex value 
chain. To ensure this, we need to 
know exactly which farms our down 
comes from and what the conditions 
are at each of these farms. That is 
why we are now working to apply 
Textile Exchange’s Responsible 
Down Standard. With this, we will 
gain full traceability of the origin 
of down and be able to ensure that 
these farms comply with strict ani -
mal welfare standards – all verified 
through third party certification. 
Our goal is to use only such certified 
down for all applicable products for 
all orders placed from the end 2015 DEADLINE STATUS
2018 on trackDEADLINE STATUS
2016 on trackmohair or alpaca, and require that 
all farms, as a minimum, fulfill 
the conditions listed in our Farm 
Requirements for Animal Welfare 
document, a set of requirements 
based on the Five Freedom Frame -
work. 
>textileexchange.org/wool onwards. These will then hit our 
stores from the autumn/winter sea -
son 2016 onwards.
> textileexchange.org/ rds
22 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategyOur mission
We are constantly looking for ways to 
make our products more sustainable. 
Teaming up with our customers helps 
us make an even bigger impact. For 
example, washing and drying represents 
26% of a garment’s climate impact. 
So not only do we need to inspire our 
customers to make conscious wardrobe 
choices, we also need to help them 
care for their clothes so they’ll last 
as long as possible, have less impact 
on our climate and water, and be easy 
to recycle.We started with our Conscious Collec -
tion, introducing the concept of sus -
tainability in fashion to a wide range 
of customers and making it accessible 
and desirable to many people. Over 
the past few years, we have gradually 
involved our customers in more and 
more of our Conscious Actions such 
as our All for Children campaign and 
other community projects. Collecting 
unwanted clothes from our customers 
for reuse and recycling has taken us 
another step further. We will continue 
to make informed, sustainable choices 
even easier, more attractive and more 
transparent and continue to raise 
awareness amongst our customers 
and colleagues.Focus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Inspire conscious 
garment careHelp ensure fashion 
does not go to wasteENABLE INFORMED CONSCIOUS CHOICES
We want to make conscious choices easy and 
fun throughout the life of a garment23 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Focus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
brands they support. Responsible brands are already 
providing information ranging from how much of 
their products are made with sustainable materials 
to their code of conduct. We hope that in the future 
providing information from the Higg Index will allow 
orders of magnitude greater transparency. 
What tools do they need in the future?
I’m biased but I believe they will need the Higg Index 
which measures brands, factories and products. This 
will provide a foundation for trusted information for 
clothing and footwear. But they will also need tools 
that help translate this information in a way that 
resonates with consumer values. You could imagine 
using an App on a mobile device to determine which 
article of clothing does the most to empower women, 
or has the lowest carbon footprint. 
What role can the SAC and companies like H&M 
play in making this happen?
The SAC and H&M can commit to speaking a com -
mon language of sustainability to customers so that 
consumers from Tokyo to Stockholm or San Francisco 
understand the impact of their clothes. This requires 
measuring brands, factories and products using the 
same methodology. I believe that common language 
will be based on the Higg Index and “dialects” of 
that language will emerge for each brand. H&M’s 
commitment and leadership on the Higg Index Jason Kibbey, CEO, Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC)
How do you think consumers will 
influence the sustainability of the 
fashion industry in the future?
I believe consumers who have access 
to trusted sustainability information 
and tools that help synthesise that in  - 
formation will be able to vote with their 
spending in ways that we can’t imagine 
today. Now, consumers who want to 
buy something more sustainable are 
limited to a label or a certification. “The HiGG Index 
will provide a  
foundation for 
trusted information 
for clothing and 
footwear”.  
Jason Kibbey, CEO, SUstainable 
Apparel Coalition (SAC)
already goes a long way towards meet -
ing that goal.
When do you think consumers  
will be able to make fully informed 
choices?
I hope that we will see fully informed 
choices by the end of this decade for 
all clothing and footwear products 
across the entire industry. I expect that 
we will see the first examples of this 
coming within the next two to three 
years.  It is a one-way information flow and 
a simple binary decision. In the future, 
we hope standardisation of the Higg 
Index will allow consumers access to 
more information that could start a 
conversation with other stakeholders 
and the entire apparel value chain.  
What can they do already today?
Consumers can ask for information 
on the sustainability practices of the 24 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious Actions
In 2013, we built what is probably the 
world’s biggest retail garment collec -
ting system, offering millions of 
customers easy solutions to not let 
fashion go to waste at all our own 
H&M (brand) stores globally. Now our 
job is to ensure that all stores offer 
garment collecting opportunities as 
we grow. By the end of 2014, almost 
all H&M stores globally offered this 
service. The only exceptions are made 
for new stores and franchise markets. 
Our rule is that garment collecting 
services need to be up and running 
six months after the opening of a new 
store. For franchise markets, our cur -
rent rule is that at least one store per 
market must offer recycling options 
to customers. 
>hm.com/garmentcollectingWe know that reducing the washing 
temperature from 60 to 30 degrees 
can reduce energy use by 50%, still 
this isn’t necessarily common know -
ledge. This is why we started discus -
sions with Ginetex, the owner of the 
current global standard care label -
ling system, in 2011. Our aim was 
to develop a common standard care 
label that encourages consumers to 
care for their clothes in a more con -
scious way. The Clevercare label is 
now available to all apparel brands 
globally. Since 2014, all products  
of all brands within the H&M Group 
carry the label.1.8 Ensure that all of our own 
H&M stores provide garment 
collecting opportunities*1.9 Inspire our customers 
to conscious garment care
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year doneDEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year doneFocus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
*For franchise markets at least one store 
per market. For new non-franchise stores, 
garment collecting systems must be 
implemented max. 6 months after opening.25 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsFocus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
We want every one of our colleagues 
to feel proud of where they work and 
provide them with the training they 
need to deliver the best possible ser -
vice to our customers. This is why in  
2012, we started developing a broader  
sustainability training ladder includ -
ing extensive training for all of our 
colleagues and additional role-specific  
courses for our buyers and design -
ers. The training system has been 
implemented in most of our markets 
(excluding franchise). By 2014, 33% 
of our colleagues around the world 
had already undergone the training. 
The goal is to cover the remaining 
markets (Germany and USA) by 2015. 1.11 Roll out new sustainabil -
ity training programme for 
all of our colleagues
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
Together with several of our peers, 
academia, NGOs and many others 
in the Sustainable Apparel Coalition 
(SAC), we are building a common 
tool for measuring the sustainability 
performance of apparel and footwear 
through the Higg Index. This is a 
major driver in improving the sus -
tainability performance of our entire 
industry. Ultimately, the idea is to 
translate this index into a product 
labelling system, allowing customers 
to benchmark products across brands. 
While creating meaningful and widely 
acknowledged labelling takes some 
time, we appreciate that the SAC is 
taking the first steps to turn this goal 
into a reality. We fully support this 
ambition and contribute actively to it.
>apparelcoalition.org1.10 Help set industry  
standard for measuring 
product sustainability
DEADLINE STATUS
ongoing on track
NO. OF HOURS  
OF TRAINING ON SUSTAINABILITY
OTHERSALES ADVISORS
2013 20141,472h4,333h 23,273h33%  of all our colleagues globally 
have taken new sustainability 
training course
1,640h26 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious Actions
For the past few years, we have 
teamed up with our customers to 
drive change in communities. We 
have raised funds and awareness  
for important causes through collec -
tions and campaigns. For example, 
our All for Children collections  
have supported UNICEF’s work  
for children’s rights in India and 
Bangladesh. In 2013, we involved 
our customers in a global giving 
Holiday Campaign together with  
the H&M Conscious Foundation.  1.12 Involve our customers 
and colleagues in our commu -
nity work
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year doneFocus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
The campaign resulted in a donation 
from the H&M Conscious Founda -
tion of SEK 37 million to a project 
enabling access to safe water and 
sanitation for people in Bangladesh. 
During the holiday season 2014, we 
once again engaged our customers 
together with the H&M Conscious 
Foundation. H&M customers around 
the globe helped the cause to em-  
power women in Ethiopia by buying 
sets of holiday gift labels. For each 
set of gift labels sold at H&M, the 
H&M Conscious Foundation made a 
donation to CARE – a humanitarian 
organisation fight  ing global poverty 
by working alongside women and 
girls. The project will start in 2015 
and aims to reach at least 5,000 
women. 
Through our All for Children  
project we are helping UNICEF 
reach out to about 1.7 million  
children in India and Bangladesh.27 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
Garment production is often 
the first step in an emerging 
market’s industrial develop -
ment and it has a major impact on 
these communities. Today, some of 
the world’s biggest garment producers  
are China, Bangladesh, India, Cambo -
dia and Turkey, all of which are key  
sourcing markets for us. It is a labour-
intense industry that creates millions  
of jobs, in particular for women, and 
substantial economic growth. The 
1,926 factories in which our 850 sup  - 
pliers make our products employ 
about 1.6 million people alone. About  
64% of them are women, often impor-  
tant income providers for their families.  
At the same time, human rights 
standards and environmental aware -
ness are less developed in many of 
these countries. 
We have seen great improvements 
over the years in many areas. Child 
labour, for example, is very rare today 
in the export garment industry. Sys -
temic challenges such as long working 
hours and a lack of functioning indus -
trial relations remain common issues 
in many markets and are clear focus 
areas. Wages and workplace safety are 
key concerns, particularly in Bangla -
desh and Cambodia.
In a globalised world, it is not a ques -
tion for a company like ours whether 
to be present in emerging markets.  
It’s a matter of how we do it. We want 
to make sure that our presence results 
in better livelihood for garment work -
ers and positive development for their 
communities. Respect for people and the environment is very much part of  
our values and we rely on stable sourc  - 
ing markets with skilled workers for  
our future growth. We want to use our  
influence to promote better work  ing  
conditions and environmental con -
sciousness throughout our value chain  
– from working with the individual 
factories to promoting systemic change  
in entire countries and our industry. 
This includes using our influence to 
achieve a fair living wage and decent 
working hours for all garment work -
ers. We stand behind the right to 
freedom of association and work sys -
tematically to strengthen industrial 
relations and collective bargaining. 
Working together with several different  
stakeholders and partners is the key 
to lasting change. We choose and 
reward responsible partners who share  
our values and are willing to work 
transparently with us to improve their 
social and environmental performance.  
We look for long-term partnerships 
with our suppliers and engage in 
strategic partnerships with the most 
progressive ones. We set high stand -
ards for our suppliers and regularly 
monitor how well they live up to them. 
Likewise, in order for our partners to 
deliver their very best, we need to be  
a good partner ourselves by, for exam -
ple, providing training and support 
and rewarding good sustainability 
performance with better business.  — COMMITMENT TWO —
Choose and reward  
responsible partners28 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT TWO – PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
We have taken another major step 
in creating supply chain transparency.  
Now fabric and yarn suppliers-to-our-suppliers  
who make about 35% of our products are on our 
public supplier factory list .Key performance 2014
This is Wang Xuefei.
We have worked with 
the Suzhou Silk factory 
for the past 8 years . 
They employ about 300  
people, 65%  of whom 
are women .She works at the Suzhou 
Silk factory close to 
Shanghai.
Wang’s monthly income  
is about EUR 425/
USD 530. This is 50% 
more than the local 
minimum wage .This is why we 
systematically place 
more and bigger 
orders  with them than 
with less progressive 
suppliers and we 
support them   
in getting even better 
every day.They are one of our 160 
strategic partners  
and their sustainability 
performance is 
above the norm .PROGRESS IN SUPPLIER FACTORY 
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE  
(IN ICOC* SCORES)
ALL FACTORIESSTRA TEGIC FACTORIES
77.377.88179.180.182.7
2012 2013 2014NO. OF STRATEGIC SUPPLIER  
FACTORIES* WITH IMPLEMENTED IMPROVED 
PAY STRUCTURES
1** 
factory60
factories550
factories
2015
(Goal)2014 2018
(Goal)
*Manufacturing factories
**Implementation completed in one role model factory, 
started in two additional role model factories (full 
implementation expected mid 2015).*Index Code of Conduct29 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT TWO – PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
PROGRESS OVERVIEWDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
2.1 Update our strategy for sustainable purchasing practices to ensure fair business partnerships with our suppliers 2016
2.2 Reward good sustainability performance with better business year-to-year
2.3 Ensure that all new supplier factories are screened and audited before first order placement year-to-year
2.4 Audit each of our supplier factories on their sustainability performanceAt least every 
two years
2.5 Help remedy causes of non-compliance through management system analyses and capacity building year-to-year
2.6 Develop and roll out the next generation of supplier assessments 2015
2.7 Follow up on initial inspections as per the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety, ensure remediation and enroll new factories in the Accord Inspection Programme 2014
2.8 Implement anti-forced labour training together with Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) at Indian spinning mills 2016
2.9 Integrate second-tier suppliers involved in making at least 50% of our products into our sustainability assessments     2015
2.10 NEW Expand our public supplier list to include the first second-tier suppliers* 2015
2.11 Develop updated strategy to promote high environmental, social and animal welfare standards in leather production  2015
2.12 Further increase sustainability performance at all supplier factories year-to-year
FOCUS – FAIR LIVING WAGE 
2.13 Develop our purchasing practices to further support our suppliers in paying a fair living wage and reducing overtime 2015
2.14 Pilot the Fair Wage Method in selected role model factories 2016
2.15 Implement improved pay structures at all strategic supplier factories, impacting 850,000 workers 2018
2.16 Update our Code of Conduct 2014
2.17 Set advocacy plan to strategically engage with governments on wage issues 2014
2.18 NEW Form strategic partnership with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) 2014
2.19 NEW Develop a common approach towards fair living wages with other brands 2014
2.20 Define needs and update strategy for extended skills-development programme for garment workers 2014
FOCUS – INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS 
2.21 NEW Ensure democratically elected workplace representation at all our strategic supplier factories 2018
2.22 Expand social dialogue project in Bangladesh to reach all supplier factories 2018
2.23 Support an increased number of collective bargaining agreements and improve the industrial relation process in Cambodia together with ILO/IF Metall and SIDA 2016
2.24 NEW Engage all strategic suppliers in China in social dialogue project 2018
2.25 Provide workers and middle managers in supplier factories in India and Bangladesh with training about their rights year-to-yearPerformance overview
*Done before the release of this report in 2015.30 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our mission Our strategy
We have high expectations of our suppliers in terms 
of quality, price, lead times and sustainability. That 
said, creating a sustainable supply chain starts with 
us. We have developed advanced systems for manag -
ing our supply and helping suppliers to improve their 
performance. And we continue to advance them fur -
ther every day. We need to choose the right partners 
from the start and know exactly where and under 
what conditions production takes place. Throughout 
a partnership, we must enable, promote and reward 
constant improvement. However, achieving 100% 
compliance with all our requirements amongst all 
our suppliers is a challenge. Major challenges are 
health and safety, excessive overtime, wages, freedom 
of association and industrial relations. Other specific 
local challenges in some of our key sourcing markets 
include so-called Sumangali schemes (a form of 
forced labour mainly present at Indian spinning 
mills), fire and building safety (particularly in Bang -
ladesh) and workers’ health and social dialogue in 
Cambodia. All of these require holistic solutions 
– from the factory level to systemic change in our 
entire industry. While our supply chain management 
systems can support improvements, we need to con -
tinue to collaborate closely with our suppliers, gov -
ernments, industry peers, NGOs, unions and many 
parties to jointly achieve lasting change. In doing  
so we are ultimately nudging our suppliers towards 
better performance, bettering lives of the workers  
and their communities which in turn supports greater  
stability and reliability in our sourcing. COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
Our over 2,500 colleagues in our 21 
production offices around the world 
maintain close relations with our sup -
pliers. We focus on building strong, 
long-term relationships characterised 
by trust and transparency. We are 
committed to working together with 
our suppliers on improvements rather 
than terminating relationships. Our 
local teams support their performance 
in various areas throughout a part -
nership. Regular audits through our 
comprehensive Full Audit Programme 
are one part of this. Additional inde -
pendent monitoring helps verify and 
improve our audit systems. We are 
aware of the limitations and challenges 
in standard audit procedures, and 
faked records or undeclared subcon -
tracting do, unfortunately, happen in 
our industry. This is completely unac -
ceptable and we work systematically to 
prevent this. This is one of the reasons 
why monitoring alone is not enough. 
Our strategy includes a wide range of  
additional elements such as supplier  
management system analyses to 
tackle structural causes of non-com -
pliance. We also provide or facilitate 
training, technical assistance and About 1.6 million  people 
work in our supplier factories and 
64% of them are women
Thereof 
strategic partners
160Thereof 
strategic factories*
721Suppliers  
(all)  
850
Far East  
374South Asia
261EMEA 215Factories  
(all)  
1,926
Far East  
840South Asia
552EMEA  534NO. OF SUPPLIERS AND FACTORIES  
BY REGION (1ST TIER) 2014
One supplier can own or use (subcontract) one or more factories. 
Strategic partners are our preferred suppliers. Strategic 
factories are manufacturing or processing factories that are 
owned or used by our strategic partners. We regard owned and 
subcontracted factories the same way and treat them according 
to the same terms through our supply chain management 
strategy.*Including both manufacturing and processing factories31 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
even joint investments. Our strong 
presence gives us profound insight 
into each market and factory. This 
gives us the possibility to integrate 
our knowledge from them and other 
local stakeholders in our business 
decisions. 
We measure our suppliers’ sustain -
ability performance through our 
Index Code of Conduct (ICoC). Each 
factory and supplier is rated using 
an ICoC score (max. score: 100). We 
assess these scores through our regu -
lar audits (s. 2.4). These scores are 
clearly communicated. The ICoC is 
an integrated tool in our purchasing 
processes which allows us to system -
atically reward suppliers for good 
sustainability performance with bet -
ter business. Only suppliers with the 
highest scores can become our stra -
tegic partners. We focus on strategic 
factories where we have the strong -
est impact. By being a good partner 
ourselves, setting clear demands and 
providing training and support where 
needed, we want to enable our sup -
pliers to take ownership and improve 
their performance. This includes 
making sure that our purchasing REWARD GOOD SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE WITH BETTER BUSINESS
HEAD 
AUDITS
Identify root
causesIdentify issues 
and challengesHelp remedy root
causes and solve 
issuesVerify progressSYSTEM
ANALYSESCAPACITY
BUILDINGFOLLOW-UP
AUDITSpractices enable our suppliers to 
live up to our demands and deliver 
their very best to us, our customers, 
their workers and their communities. 
By publishing our supplier factory 
list, we further strengthen the sus -
tainability ownership of our suppliers’ 
performance and incentivise further 
improvements. Likewise, we also 
encourage our suppliers to report 
on their social and environmental 
impacts publicly and get involved 
with their local stakeholders directly.
We are clearly committed to working  
together with our suppliers on im-  
provements rather than terminating 
relationships. However, if a supplier 
shows an unwillingness to work with 
us on improvements or does not com -
ply with our minimum requirements, 
we will, for example, reduce order vol-  
umes as warning or – as a last resort 
– terminate our business relationship. 
In any such case, if it is for sustainability 
or any other business reason, we follow 
our responsible phase-out standards. 
This allows the concerned supplier a 
certain transition period to find new 
clients in order to avoid the loss of jobs.32 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS2.1 Update our strategy for sus -
tainable purchasing practices 
to ensure fair business part -
nerships with our suppliers
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track 
We need to ensure that our purchas -
ing practices enable our suppliers to 
live up to our demands, for example, 
by providing reasonable lead times, 
fair pricing, timely payments and tran  - 
sparent communication. To measure 
how well we are doing in this respect, 
we survey our suppliers every year 
anonymously. Today, 76% of our sup  - 
pliers see us as a fair business partner.  
Our goal is to reach 90% by 2018 at 
the latest. 
To achieve this, our focus is to ensure 
that all our suppliers receive seasonal 
production plans. This means that 
they will be able to plan their capac -
ity utilisation well ahead. Further -
more it allows us to help suppliers 
spread their production over the year 
to reduce peaks as well as unused 
capacity in low seasons. This brings 
a number of benefits for the suppliers such as planning security, a stable 
income and better capacity utilisa -
tion. Doing so is also an important 
contribution to reducing overtime 
hours through better staff planning. 
We are also developing our purchas -
ing practices with regard to our Fair 
Living Wage Roadmap (s. 2.13). Focus: Supply chain management
2014 2018
(Goal)76%90%% OF SUPPLIERS THAT SEE H&M AS A FAIR 
BUSINESS PARTNER2.2 Reward good sustainabil -
ity performance with better 
business
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
In order to sustain and incentivise 
good sustainability performance, we 
reward our suppliers with what they 
appreciate most: long-term business  
and growth opportunities. To meas -
ure how well we perform in this 
ambition, we look at our supplier 
factories ICoC scores and weigh 
these against the order volumes they 
received from us. Then we compare 
with the ICoC scores weighed by the 
available capacity in our entire fac -
tory base. This allows us to see that 
we place more and bigger orders with 
better performing factories before 
others. The data shows that we do. 
Our aim is to maintain this year-to-
year. This is one of the reasons why 
we integrated ICoC scores in our 
overall supplier grading already 
some years ago. This means that 
only those suppliers who demon -
strate the best sustainability perfor-  
mance can become strategic partners.  This type of partnership is win-
win, for example, by securing stable 
business through long-term capacity 
planning up to five years ahead. Out 
of 850 suppliers, only 160 are stra -
tegic partners. That said, they make 
almost 60% of our products. 
>hm.com/supplierrelations
 ICOC WEIGHTED BY 
BY ORDER VOLUMEBY SUPPLIER CAPACITY
2014 201377.580.5
78.982.12.3 Ensure that all new 
supplier factories are screened 
and audited before first order 
placement
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year more to do
Before placing any orders, suppliers  
must sign our Code of Conduct and  
undergo an initial screening process.  
If they pass, our auditors conduct  
an in-depth head audit to assess 
if the factory lives up to our mini -
mum requirements and shows good 
potential to further improve their 
sustainability performance. Only 
then can orders be placed. This is 
the case whether a factory is owned 
directly by one of our suppliers or if 
it is subcontracted. By 2014, 96% of 
our supplier factories were audited 
before an order was placed (2013: 
96%). The remaining 4% were low 
risk factories, for example, in terms 
of product type as well as their loca -
tion in countries such as Sweden 
and Portugal. 
>hm.com/monitoringOur 160 strategic 
partners make almost 60% 
of all our products33 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious Actions1.5
audits1.5
audits1.3
audits1.3
audits2.4 Audit each of our supplier 
factories on their sustain -
ability performanceAbout 70%
of our Head Audits were 
unannouncedCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
DEADLINE STATUS
at least every two years done
Our Full Audit Programme consists 
of more than 200 questions and 
includes a visual inspection of the 
factory, management interviews, 
document checks and interviews 
with workers. It covers all of our 
first-tier supplier factories, regard -
less of whether they are directly 
owned or subcontracted by our 
suppliers, and increasingly also sup -
pliers of non-commercial goods and 
second-tier suppliers such as fabric 
and yarn mills. As a minimum, each 
of these factories must be audited 
every two years with up to three fol -
low-up audits conducted in between. 
In 2014 alone, 84% of our supplier 
factories were audited at least once 
(2013: 82%). Some 70% of all head 
audits were unannounced (2013: 
73%, 2012: 66%). The audit frequency 
varies largely depending on risks in 
the market, product types and indi -
vidual factory performance record. On average, each active first-tier 
factory was audited 1.5 times (2013: 
1.3). All in all, we performed a total 
of 3,623 audits (head audits and 
follow-up audits) in 2014. 
>hm.com/monitoring
13,695 
interviews% OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES  
AUDITED DURING THE YEAR (1ST TIER)
2014 201382%84%
AVERAGE NO. OF AUDITS PER FACTORY 
PER FACTORY
PER STRA TEGIC FACTORY
2014 2013NO. OF WORKER  
INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED
9,815
interviews11,549 
interviews
2014 2013 2012NO. OF AUDITS 2014
Total audits
3,623
Head audits
1,355Follow-up audits
2,268200
94106
3,168
1,0742094255
18768SUPPLIER FACTORIES2ND TIER SUPPLIERSNON-COMMERCIAL GOODS SUPPLIERS
3RD PARTY  
VERIFICA TIONS  
(CONDUCTED  
BY FLA): 1534 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious Actions2.5 Help remedy causes of 
non-compliance through 
management system analyses 
and capacity buildingCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
Monitoring our suppliers is impor -
tant, but that alone is not enough to 
create lasting change. This is why we 
are investing substantial resources 
to help them improve their manage -
ment systems and train workers and 
management in order to strengthen 
their in-house capacities. Our focus 
is on our strategic partners where 
we have stronger influence and big -
ger impact. In 2014, we conducted 
2,055 management system analyses. 
Together with about 3,137 other 
activities (such as training sessions 
and workshops) and our audits, each 
factory was subject to an average of 
3.6 (strategic factories 3.7) activities 
aiming to support them in further 
improving their sustainability per -
formance.
>hm.com/beyondmonitoringAVERAGE NO. OF SUSTAINABILITY 
ACTIVITIES
STRA TEGIC FACTORIES
ALL FACTORIES
2014 20133.8
3.63.7
3.4Over 3,000  training  sessions 
and workshops helped our 
suppliers to further improve their 
sustainability performance
2.6 Develop and roll out the 
next generation of supplier 
assessments
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track 
With over 15 years of experience, we 
have developed extensive knowledge 
on how to assess the sustainability 
performance of our supply chain. We 
started in the 90s with monitoring 
our suppliers and drafting remedia -
tion plans for non-compliance. We 
learned quickly that this could help 
address many issues, but that it’s 
not enough to tackle systemic issues. 
Years ago with the launch of our Full 
Audit Programme, we went beyond 
just monitoring and put stronger 
focus on management systems, 
capacity building and collaboration 
with key actors beyond the factory 
walls to help tackle societal barriers 
to improvements. It’s now time to 
take this to the next level. We want 
to move our approach from “yes or 
no” based compliance audits to even 
more impactful assessments and put 
even greater focus on partnerships 
and involvement of local stake -holders. This will help us make a 
measurable difference in the social 
and environmental impacts – not 
only amongst our first-tier suppliers, 
but gradually across our entire value 
chain. That’s why we are currently  
developing an updated supplier 
assessment method that we are 
planning to roll out during 2015. 
This will further advance our data 
management and risk assessments, 
strengthen supplier ownership and 
prepare us for the integration of new 
tools, such as the HiGG Index, that 
will provide better alignment and 
comparability across our industry.35 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSFocus: Supply chain management
2.7 Follow up on initial 
inspections as per the Bang -
ladesh Accord on Fire and 
Building Safety, ensure reme -
diation and enroll new facto -
ries in the Accord Inspection 
Programme
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
The collapse of the Rana Plaza build -
ing in Bangladesh in 2013 that left 
more than 1,100 people dead was the 
worst industrial accident in the his -
tory of Bangladesh and probably the  
entire garment industry. While we 
never had any production in the build-  
ing, this disaster underlines the 
importance of the work we already 
started several years ago to improve 
fire and building safety in the country.  
We were the first company to sign and 
support the Bangladesh Accord on Fire 
and Building Safety in its up  dated  
version initiated by IndustriALL and 
UNI Global Union. Additionally, the 
H&M Conscious Foundation donated 
USD 100,000 to the ILO-managed 
Rana Plaza Donors Trust Fund sup -
porting the victims of the disaster.As planned, all of our supplier fac -
tories in Bangladesh had undergone 
additional safety inspections as per 
the Accord. More precisely, during 
2014, 157 of our supplier factories 
underwent inspections conducted  
by the Accord.* These assess three 
different areas: fire risks, electrical 
installations and structural condi -
tions of the building. All of our 
sup plier factories passed the fire 
and electrical assessments with no 
immediate risks, while all factories 
required some improvements mostly 
concerning fire exits. 
In the structural assessments, the  
majority (56%) of our supplier fac -
tories were graded green or yellow 
which means that no immediate 
risks could be found. For about one 
third of the factories, partial risks 
were identified, for example, due to  
a potential overload in some parts  
of the building. Any such risks have  
been addressed immediately, for 
example, by removing weight from 
the concerned part of the factory 
while the rest of the factory was 
cleared for continued production. 
Completion of these immediate  
measures has been verified by the  
Accord in all cases. All of these fac -
tories are now undergoing additional 
Detail Engineering Assessments  
(DEA) in order to ensure structural 
safety with the highest level of pre -
caution. The aim is for the Accord to  
finalise these additional assessments  
within the next 6 months, depending  
on the individual factory situation.  
About 15 factories showed needs for 
immediate structural improvements,  All of our supplier factories 
in Bangladesh have now undergone 
additional safety inspections  
as per the Bangladesh Accord 
on Fire and Building Safety
for example, due to concerns about 
the strength of the concrete or col -
umns compared to the weight they  
had to carry. For 13 factories, these 
immediate risks have been confirmed  
as addressed, for example, through 
partial closure of concerned factory 
floors, while structural remediation 
and further DEAs are being con -
ducted. Two factories were closed 
down for further improvements. 
Both of these factories had already been under phase-out according to 
our responsible phase-out standards 
as they were located in a shared 
building, which H&M does not allow.  
The last order from these suppliers 
was shipped in spring 2014. The 
detailed results of all inspections 
along with the factory names are 
published here. Our focus is now on 
securing continued remediation and 
making sure that any newly added  
factories will undergo the same initial  
inspections and, where required, 
remediation procedures.
>bangladeshaccord.org
>bangladeshworkersafety.org
>National Tripartite Plan of Action on Fire Safety
*Another 51 factories were inspected 
by the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker 
Safety, an alternative institution that was 
founded by a number of North American 
brands. As suppliers may work for several 
different brands, some of which could be 
either Accord or Alliance members, both 
organisations aligned their inspection 
standards in order to avoid double inspec -
tions of factories. No immediate risks 
were identified at any of these factories.36 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSFocus: Supply chain management
2.8 Implement anti-forced 
labour training together with 
Ethical Trading Initiative 
(ETI) at Indian spinning mills
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track
India’s garment and textile sector 
plays an important role in helping 
lift people out of poverty. In Tamil 
Nadu, it provides work for rural 
women who might otherwise have 
no means of employment. An esti -
mated 500,000 people work in the 
region’s textile and garment indus -
try and women are estimated to 
make up about 60% of the workforce, 
mostly in unskilled or semi-skilled 
jobs. Where decent work is provided,  
this sector can have a positive impact  
for women extending beyond income 
generation. 
In recent years, media and NGO 
reports have put a spotlight on labour  
rights abuses within some parts of 
Tamil Nadu’s garment sector. These 
are linked to employment arrange -
ments often referred to as Sumangali  
schemes. These are forms of forced labour where often young women 
from rural areas commit to long-term  
working contracts. This often comes 
with a promise of money to the girl’s 
families at the end of the period 
that they can use as dowry for their 
daughters. This type of scheme, 
and any others like it, is completely 
unacceptable.
 
More than 80% of the Sumangali 
schemes have been identified as 
exsisting in the spinning mills sec -
tor. As is common for our industry, 
we do not have direct business rela -
tions with spinning mills. Mostly 
these are second or even third-tier 
suppliers. This means that we have 
no direct contractual influence over 
this stage of our value chain. We are 
progressing quickly in extending our  
influence over this part of our value 
chain (s.2.9). This will provide us 
with better possibilities to promote 
improvements in this sector and, 
where needed, allow us to exclude 
non-compliant mills from our value  
chain. However, as the issue is closely  
connected with systemic root causes 
in both the sector and the commu -
nity, a holistic approach is needed  to promote improvements beyond 
our own value chain. 
This is why we are participating in 
the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) 
programme to address exploitative 
labour practices in Tamil Nadu’s 
garment and textile sector, in par -
ticular those associated with the 
Sumangali scheme. This three-year 
programme aims to catalyse positive 
change within the industry through 
activities that empower young female 
workers, strengthen industrial rela -
tions, build community awareness 
and support legislative reform. This 
will have a direct positive impact on 
45,000 young women, with thousands 
indirectly benefiting. 
>ethicaltrade.org2.9 Integrate second-tier sup -
pliers involved in making at 
least 50% of our products into 
our sustainability assessments     
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
Taking a holistic approach to our 
value chain, we are extending our 
knowledge and influence over second-  
tier suppliers such as fabric and yarn  
mills. Our Lifecycle Assessments 
show that fabric production repre  - 
sents major environmental impacts. 
For example, 36% of the climate 
impact of a garment’s lifecycle occurs  
at this stage. For several years we 
have worked, for example, through 
our development programme to help 
mills reduce these impacts. In 2013, 
we started to request information 
about the fabric and yarn source  
for each order placed. We have now  
started to integrate the most impor -
tant fabric and yarn/spinning mills 
into our audit programme and  
also into our supplier-relationship 
management strategy. Our goal is to 
cover such mills involved in at least 
50% of our production volume by 2015.  We are on track in achieving  
this goal, with fabric and yarn/
spinning mills involved in about 
35% (2013: 20%) of our production 
volume now covered by our Limited 
Audit Programme. Most of these 
mills had never been exposed to any 
demands or compliance standards  
from brands, so one of our challenges  
is to educate them and develop a 
mutual understanding. In turn, this 
provides a great opportunity for 
improvements and for competitive 
advantages. 
  
% OF PRODUCTS MADE WITH FABRIC/YARN 
FROM AUDITED FABRIC/YARN MILLS
2014 201320%35%2015
(Goal)
50%37 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
We are now auditing second-tier 
suppliers  involved in making about 
35% of our products – and we are one 
of the first companies to disclose 
their names publicly
2.10  Expand our public sup -
plier list to include the first 
second-tier suppliers
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 done
Transparency is key to our supply 
chain management and can be a 
catalyst for positive change. It’s also  
a good way to incentivise our suppli -
ers for the progress they make during 
our partnership. We were one of the 
first fashion brands to publish our 
supplier factory list, covering close to 
100%* of our production volume, and 
even factories that are subcontracted 
by our suppliers for specific tasks 
such as washing or printing. Now we 
are taking this one step further and 
we are the first major fashion brand 
to disclose the names and locations 
of the most important mills that pro -
vide our suppliers with fabrics and 
yarns that account for about 35% of 
our products. We hope that this will 
continue to promote transparency 
and drive further positive change  
in our industry.   
>hm.com/supplierlist*Excluded are only factories that are 
currently undergoing a phase-out period 
according to our responsible phase-out 
standards. During this period, products 
can still be made in this factory to avoid 
loss of jobs, while the relationship is 
terminated either for sustainability or 
other business reasons. Not included are 
homeworkers who can perform specific 
tasks in compliance with our homework -
ers’ guidelines.
2.11 Develop updated  
strategy to promote high 
environ  mental, social and 
animal welfare standards  
in leather production
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 more to do
Leather products can require intense  
chemical treatment that can affect 
both the environment and workers.  
We joined the Leather Working Group  
(LWG) in 2009. Tanneries must 
comply with high environmental 
standards before being graded by 
the group. This is why our goal has 
been to gradually increase the use  
of leather that is either graded by the 
LWG or certified organic. However, 
these currently do not cover all critical  
issues in leather production, such 
as key labour, health and safety and 
animal welfare aspects. While we are  
still promoting the use of these 
certifications, this is why, during 
the year, we made the decision to 
focus our efforts on reworking our 
strategy for leather products to also 
take these aspects into account. As 
part of this we are focused on adding  social criteria as well as animal 
welfare standards. And we are fur -
ther developing related tools such 
as a closer integration of leather 
tanneries into our auditing and 
supply chain management systems 
and improved material traceability. 
We plan to finalise and roll out this 
updated strategy during 2015.
% OF LEATHER SHOES MADE WITH 
CERTIFIED LEATHER
27%49%
46%
2014 2013 201238 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
Our Conscious Actions
2.12 Further increase sustain  - 
ability performance at all 
supplier factories
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
Ultimately, our supply chain man -
agement should help our suppliers 
to improve their performance and 
create a positive impact for the 
livelihood of their about 1.6 million 
workers and their communities. We 
measure each supplier factory’s sus -
tainability performance through our 
ICoC index. Our aim is to increase 
the average ICoC index across our 
entire supplier factory base year-to-  
year. This is despite the fact that we  
are constantly improving our auditing  
methods and increasing demands. 
Also, adding new factories normally 
has a negative effect on the total 
average, as factories usually improve 
their scores during their partner -
ship with us. We achieved this goal 
in 2014 with ICoC scores increasing 
to 81 (max. score: 100, 2013: 77.8, 
2012: 77.3, 2011: 76.5). You can find 
a detailed breakdown of our supplier 
factories’ compliance with all of the over 200 items from our Full Audit 
Programme questionnaire here .
Please find an independent assur -
ance statement related to GRI AF14 
(p. 112).
>hm.com/suppliercomplianceindetail
PROGRESS IN SUPPLIER FACTORY 
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE  
(IN ICOC* SCORES)
ALL FACTORIESSTRA TEGIC FACTORIES
77.377.88179.180.182.7
2012 2013 2014
*Index Code of Conduct39 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our mission
There is no question that every gar -
ment worker should earn enough for  
a decent living. In order to ensure this 
throughout our industry and in all of 
our sourcing markets, further change 
is needed. The challenges along the 
way are diverse and complex. In many 
markets, workers have limited possi -
bilities to negotiate wages collectively. 
We think that collective bargaining is 
the best way to define wages. Where, 
for example, legal minimum wages or 
the systems to define them are not yet 
sufficient, we need to find solutions 
that in the meantime can ensure that 
individual factories can pay fair living 
wages to their workers without putting  
their business and jobs at risk. 
One challenge is that factories often 
work for many different brands. In 
a situation where only one or a few 
brands request fair living wages, it is 
still necessary to ensure that the wages 
of the factory workers are not depend -
ent on their employer’s customers. 
Income equality also needs to be seen 
in relation to other sectors and the 
impact on labour markets and employ -
ment. It is also important that govern -
ments feel confident that buyers would  COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
not move orders to other countries 
as minimum wages increase. The 
challenges are complex but the aim 
is clear: A fair living wage across the 
textile industry.GOVERNMENTS
Continue to engage governments 
in wages and freedom of association 
following a strategic engagement plan.
BRANDS (such as H&M)
Continually make sure that the prices we pay our suppliers 
enable them to pay fair living wages to their workers. 
By 2015 , develop additional tools to systematically ensure 
this also when wages increase in the future.
By 2018 , reach our goal for 90% of our suppliers to regard 
H&M as a fair business partner (2014: 76%).FACTORY OWNERS
By 2014 , start piloting the Fair Wage Method 
in 3 model factories and evaluate outcome. 
By 2018 , all of H&M’s strategic suppliers should have 
improved pay structures for fair living wages in place. 
By then, this will reach around 850,000 workers. FACTORY EMPLOYEES
By 2013 , launch Industrial Relations project in Cambodia. 
By 2015 , expand Social Dialogue project in 
Bangladesh to 30% of H&M suppliers, with the 
intention of reaching 100% by 2018.
By 2018 , ensure democratically elected workplace 
representation at all of our strategic supplier 
factories globally.
FAIR  
LIVING WAGES
In the textile industry40 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy
We developed our Fair Living Wage roadmap in 
close consultation with a variety of stakeholders 
and our Wage Advisory Board  consisting of NGOs, 
unions and other experts in this field. Based on 
this, a fair living wage should at the very least cover 
workers’ basic needs and a discretionary income. 
It should be enabled through our purchasing prac -
tices and based on a skilled workforce that has their 
wages reviewed on an annual basis. It should also 
be negotiated on at least the factory level, involving  
trade unions or at least democratically elected worker  
representatives. In order to achieve this, we need  
to work at several ends. 
We need to ensure that our purchasing practices 
support our suppliers in implementing fair living 
wages. And we need to work with our suppliers to 
implement the required pay structures and systems. 
These are defined through the Fair Wage Method, 
developed by the Fair Wage Network. To achieve 
this, we are working with our suppliers to deliver 
best practice examples and gradually scale them up. 
We are focusing on our strategic suppliers to start. 
Our goal is for all of them to implement improved 
pay structures such as the Fair Wage Method by 
2018 at the latest. By then, this will impact about 
850,000 people working in their factories. To assess  
the progress made, we will ask the workers them -
selves in regular surveys conducted by third parties  
such as the Fair Wage Network, while closely following  
the development of minimum wages, average wages COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
MONTHLY AVERAGE WAGES AT H&M SUPPLIER FACTORIES VS. APPLICABLE MINIMUM WAGES IN SELECTED COUNTRIES IN USD*
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Bangladesh Cambodia China 
(Guangdong Province) India 
(Bangalore)Indonesia Turkey VietnamMINIMUM WAGEAVERAGE WAGE
42 4267 83 97117176183 183
91 9110984104132301370404
89 104120103123153383475521
134149 154
100115119389 385442
61 647990 99137
*Data based on audit results from randomly selected 
factories in each country/region. Based on basic wages 
excl. overtime for machine operators, which are usually 
the largest group of employees. In China, piece-rate 
systems often apply, hence wage data for China is 
not fully comparable to other markets. Figures are 
converted to USD using comparable exchange rates.Bangladesh Cambodia China
(Guangdong 
Province)India
(Bangalore)Indonesia Turkey VietnamMINIMUM WAGE AVERAGE WAGE
29.5%52.2%
13.6%19%WAGE INCREASES IN % FROM 2012 TO 2014*
59.5%
41%
13.1%19.8%57.1%
34% 34.8%48.5%
36%
14.9%41 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSFocus: Fair living wages
as well as real wages, considering the change in living  
costs, for each market.
But to achieve lasting progress, we also need to look 
beyond individual factory walls. We believe that 
ultimately all of the people working in the garment 
industry should be able to influence their wages and  
working conditions in regular and fair negotiations 
with their employers. That is why we help both work -
ers and employers to develop the required structures  
and knowledge and actively support the right to  
collective bargaining.
We are also continuing to involve governments and 
other stakeholders to promote systemic change across  
communities and our entire industry. As an important  
part of this, we are sending clear signals to govern -
ments and suppliers that we remain fully committed 
to long-term relations with suppliers and existing 
sourcing markets. And that we are prepared to reflect 
increasing costs resulting from wage increases in our 
sourcing prices where this is needed. 
With this holistic approach covering brands like 
H&M, factory owners, factory employees and gov -
ernments, we are taking a lead in promoting fair 
living wages for garment workers – not only in our 
supply chain, but across the entire textile industry.
>hm.com/fairlivingwage 
>fair-wage.com
42 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014What is the biggest challenge in achieving fair 
living wages for all garment workers?
There are many challenges. The entire garment 
industry sourcing model is predicated on low wages, 
and the difficulty of transforming this cannot be 
overstated. An important initial challenge is to get 
the commitment of brands, suppliers and govern -
ments to work together with trade unions with a clear 
intention to bring about genuine large scale change. 
How do you see the role of fashion brands 
in this regard?
Fashion brands have a critical role to play. Their 
sourcing practices and the price that they pay to their Focus: Fair living wagesCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Do you think fashion brands should 
define the amount that constitutes 
a fair living wage for countries like 
Bangladesh or Cambodia?
As trade unions, we are clear that it is 
the workers who should define what Interview with Jyrki Raina, General Secretary, IndustriALL Global Union
suppliers determine the conditions for 
workers. What we have seen over many 
years is prices being squeezed, leaving 
very little room for pay increases to 
be negotiated. This must stop. Brands 
must be prepared to pay a fairer price 
for the clothes they sell. 
How do you think H&M’s Fair Living 
Wage Roadmap corresponds to this?
H&M’s work towards identifying the 
labour component of manufacturing 
costs is most welcome and ensuring 
that wage increases are reflected in 
the price paid to suppliers is essential. 
There has been impressive progress 
in H&M’s role model factories which 
shows what is possible. However,  
we need to go much further than a 
factory-by-factory approach to change 
the industry as a whole. We are par -
ticularly pleased to see H&M actively 
communicating with governments 
its commitment to reflect increased 
wages in prices paid to suppliers and 
the need for fairer wage fixing pro -
cesses. Most important of all is H&M’s 
willingness to collaborate with other 
brands to drive significant and lasting 
change in the industry.amount they need to live on. In most 
garment producing countries, this 
amount is well above what they are 
currently paid. Government minimum 
wage fixing mechanisms are failing 
to deliver the necessary increases. 
To make a real breakthrough, trade 
unions must be able to negotiate 
wages across the industry so that all 
workers are able to earn a wage that 
they and their families can live on.
What would you like to see from 
H&M in the future?
We would like to see H&M using its 
powerful position in the industry to 
bring brands together in joint work 
with IndustriALL Global Union 
towards large scale reform through 
collective bargaining on the industry 
level. This process has already started 
and it is the best chance we have to 
drive the necessary changes. For years, 
brands followed each other in a race 
to the bottom for cheaper labour. 
They now need to collaborate to drive 
a race to the top. H&M must continue 
to take a leading role in our joint 
effort to make the global garment 
industry truly sustainable.“H&M must continue to 
take a leading role in our 
joint effort to make the  
global garment industry 
more sustainable”.  
Jyrki Raina, General Secretary,  
IndustriALL Global Union
43 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.13 Develop our purchasing 
practices to further support 
our suppliers in paying a fair 
living wage and reducing 
overtime
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
We will continue to take our respon -
sibility in making sure that the prices  
we pay our suppliers enable them to  
pay fair living wages to their workers.  
This also remains the case where 
wages increase in the future and 
we will further develop our tools to 
secure this systematically. Addition -
ally, we will continue to improve our 
purchasing planning tools to reduce 
production peaks and thereby help 
our suppliers to better plan their 
capacity and reduce overtime. This 
alone will not be enough to ensure 
fair living wages, but it will give our 
suppliers additional confidence in 
implementing improved pay struc -
tures (s. 2.15).
Additionally, we are working hard 
to strengthen our current so-called 
“open costing method”. This tool results in transparency between us 
and suppliers regarding the major 
costing blocks of each order. Cur -
rently, we are working on refining 
this so we can more accurately under  - 
stand the labour costs associated 
with each order. This will support 
us in making sure that any wage 
increases are properly reflected in 
the prices we pay our suppliers.  
As wages can’t be regarded without 
also addressing the industry wide 
issue of overtime hours, we are also 
further optimising our planning 
routines to help suppliers to achieve 
more stable capacity utilisation and 
(staff) planning security (s. 2.1). 44 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.14 Pilot the Fair Wage 
Method in selected role model 
factories
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track
In 2013, we started the process of 
testing the Fair Wage Method in three  
model factories, one in Cambodia 
and two in Bangladesh. Together 
with these factories, we want to set 
best practice examples for our indus -
try and showcase that leadership in 
sustainability, including paying a 
fair living wage, can go well together 
with best business performance. 
As part of this, we guaranteed these 
factories a 100% capacity usage for us 
for five years to avoid any business 
risks for them. 
In 2014, we evaluated the first factory  
after year one of this unique collabo -
ration in close detail to take findings 
from this factory further. The evalu -
ated factory is located in Cambodia 
and it is a quite typical one for the 
Cambodian garment industry, with 
needs to further improve their pay structures, social dialogue and over -
time hours, but also with a strong 
will to improve the way their business  
is run. 
To understand the progress, we went  
through loads of data, talked to the 
management and the Fair Wage 
Network conducted an anonymous 
detailed survey amongst the workers, 
a so-called fair wage assessment.
This evaluation showed very promis  - 
ing results. Overtime hours decreased  
by 43% from 60 to 34 on average per 
worker and month. At the same time 
workers’ total take home wage has 
increased. This has mainly been 
achieved through improved produc -
tivity, wage structures that were 
better linked to workers’ skills and 
experience, individual and collective 
incentives and better production 
planning.
This is also shown in the survey 
conducted amongst the workers. 
The share of workers that said they 
are satisfied with the pay systems in 
their factory increased to 94%, com -
pared to a level below 50% in  a fair wage assessment conducted in 
2012. Social dialogue processes also 
improved significantly. The manage -
ment and worker representatives  
now agreed on a wage grid that bet -
ter reflects factors such as skills and 
individual and collective performance.  
These are exactly some of the key 
areas identified for further improve -
ments in the worker survey. At the 
same time, the factory showed reduc -
tions in staff turnover rates and 
worker absenteeism. 
The other two model factories in 
Bangladesh started to implement 
the Fair Wage Method in late 2014 
and we plan to evaluate their progress  
during 2015. Our next step will then 
be to work to lift these systems and 
results from a role-model environment 
with 100% capacity usage guarantees 
to a real market environment. That’s 
certainly no easy task, but we aim to 
reach all our strategic supplier facto -
ries by 2018 at the latest (s.2.15).“It has taken courage to work with 
the Fair Wage Method. Involving 
unions was a sensitive topic as 
there would be serious consequen -
ces if things didn’t go well. Without 
H&M we wouldn’t have had the 
courage to work with this topic”.   
Managing Director at one of our role model factories
45 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.15 Implement improved 
pay structures at all strategic 
supplier factories, impacting 
850,000 workers2.16 Update our Code of 
Conduct
DEADLINE STATUS
2018 on trackDEADLINE STATUS
2014 more to do
In 2011, we partnered with the Fair 
Wage Network. As part of this, the Fair 
Labour Association (FL A) conducted 
independent fair wage assessments 
at about 200 of our supplier factories 
to assess pay structures and workers’ 
perception of their wages. Building on 
the implementation of the Fair Wage 
method in selected model factories 
(s. 2.14), our goal is to scale up such 
improved pay structures at all of our 
strategic supplier factories* by 2018 
at the latest. This will affect around 
850,000 workers. Developed by the 
Fair Wage Network, the Fair Wage 
Method defines twelve dimensions 
of wages that need to be in place to 
make a fair living wage. For example, 
this includes ensuring that wages 
cover workers’ basic needs, reflect 
their skills and are negotiated in a 
fair process involving workers and 
their representatives. Our plan is to During 2014, we worked on updat -
ing our Code of Conduct to among 
other things better reflect our posi -
tion regarding fair living wages, for 
example, by stating: “A fair living 
wage should always be enough to 
meet the basic needs of the employ -
ees and their families, and provide 
some discretionary income”. Prior  
to the update we gathered vital input 
from a variety of stakeholders, includ  - 
ing unions, suppliers and a variety 
of NGOs. We plan to publish the 
updated Code and roll it out to all 
suppliers in the first half of 2015.  
We chose this slightly later date 
than originally planned in order to 
release the new Code together with 
the launch of our new generation  
of supplier assessment and thereby  
create a stronger impact in our supply 
chain.
>hm.com/codeofconductincrease the implementation of such 
improved pay systems to cover 60 stra -
tegic supplier factories in Bangladesh, 
Cambodia and China in 2015. As part 
of this, we will conduct further worker 
surveys at these factories. We will use 
this broader group of factories and 
the data gathered from these surveys 
to make decisions on how to move 
forward.
>hm.com/fairlivingwage
>fair-wage.com
NO. OF STRATEGIC SUPPLIER  
FACTORIES* WITH IMPLEMENTED IMPROVED 
PAY STRUCTURES
1**60 
factories550
factories
2015
(Goal)2014 2018
(Goal)
*Manufacturing factories
**Implementation completed in one role model factory 
and started in two additional role model factories (full 
implementation expected mid 2015).During 2015 we aim to  
implement the Fair Wage Method  
at 60 strategic supplier factories 46 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.17 Set advocacy plan to 
strategically engage with 
governments on wage issues
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
Systemic change cannot be achieved 
by one company alone. The ambition 
must be for all garment workers in 
the industry – not just in our sup -
plier factories – to earn a fair living 
wage. In order to ensure income 
equality and competition-neutral playing fields, the governments con -
cerned need to strengthen their legal 
frameworks such as regular wage 
revisions and functioning industrial 
relations. This is why we, from the 
beginning of the development of our 
fair living wage roadmap, also have 
taken the importance of involving 
governments in the process into 
account. And sent a clear signal 
to them: We remain fully commit -
ted to long-term relations with our 
suppliers and existing sourcing 
markets and are prepared to reflect wage increases in our sourcing costs 
where needed. 
To expand these efforts strategically, 
we have now developed an engage -
ment plan for four priority countries: 
Bangladesh, Cambodia, Myanmar 
and Ethiopia. These countries have 
been chosen due to great potential 
and needs in government actions 
on wage issues. We plan to engage 
with these governments directly, 
together with actors such as the 
ILO (s. 2.18). The aim is to support 
stronger minimum wage legislation, 
for example, in the form of annual 
minimum wage revisions, and to 
strengthen the legal framework and 
enforcement of the right to freedom 
of association. 
This plan builds on our previous 
experience from working with gov -
ernments on this matter. In recent 
years, we have on several occasions 
been in contact with the Bangladeshi 
Government and requested increases 
in minimum wages and systematic 
minimum wage revisions, most 
recently during a meeting between 
our CEO and the Bangladeshi 
Minister of  Commerce  in autumn 
2014. Also in 2014, we initiated a 
joint letter with several other brands 
urging the Cambodian government 
to ensure fair collective bargain -
ing processes and expressed our 
support for increasing wages in the 
country, including our willingness to 
incorporate higher wage costs in our 
sourcing prices where needed. This 
came after the 2013 meeting between 
our CEO and the Cambodian Prime 
Minister to discuss the importance of 
annual minimum wage revisions and 
fair industrial relations.
We will continue these efforts and 
start implementing this plan from 
2015 onwards.“We are prepared that higher 
wages can mean higher sourcing 
prices. We see this as an investment 
in our customer offering”.  
Karl-Johan Persson, CEO at H&M
H&M’s CEO Karl-Johan Persson and Tofail Ahmed, Minister of Commerce in Bangladesh.We remain fully committed to 
long-term relations with our suppliers 
and existing sourcing markets47 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
Our Conscious Actions
“Issues in the garment industry are systemic and 
require action that helps develop effective industrial 
relations and promote respect for international 
labour standards. There is therefore an urgent need 
to establish strategic and comprehensive collabora -
tions with companies that have experience in these 
fields, such as H&M,” says ILO Director-General Guy Ryder.NEW 2.18 Form strategic 
partnership with the Interna -
tional Labour Organisation 
(ILO)
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
To achieve global change, we need 
strong partners. That’s why in 2014, 
we entered into a unique part  nership 
with the ILO to promote sustainable 
supply chains in the garment industry 
on a global, national and enterprise 
level. 
This new partnership includes joint 
work on industrial relations and 
wages, training and skills develop -
ment in our supplier factories, as 
well as strengthening employers’ 
and workers’ organisations in the 
global garment industry. Together, 
we will promote a wide range of 
activities with the aim to further 
strengthen sustainability work 
in our supply chain. We hope to 
establish a positive model for other 
operators and create a global alli -
ance to promote the ILO’s Decent 
Work Agenda .
NEW 2.19 Develop a common 
approach towards fair living 
wages with other brands
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
As a single brand, we can go ahead, 
but we can’t do the job alone. Besides  
governments and international 
organisations such as the ILO, other 
brands play a vital role, too. To create 
a critical mass in our industry and 
help governments and suppliers feel 
secure that increasing minimum wages will not necessarily result in 
a loss of competitiveness for their 
economies, several brands need to 
pull in the same direction. That’s why 
during the past year, we had a number 
of talks with other brands, all sharing 
a similar vision that all workers in 
our industry should earn fair living 
wages and recognising the need for 
even more industry collaboration  
to make this a reality. The result is  
a joint set of what we called the Ena -
bling Principles. These principles 
outline a shared approach towards 
fair living wages based on, for exam -
ple, purchasing practices, the right  
to freedom of association and collec -
tive bargaining and possibilities for 
productivity improvements. 13 leading  
brands in our industry signed these 
principles and are committed to their 
implementation.H&M’s Head of Production and former Head of Sustainability Helena Helmerssion 
with Guy Ryder, Director-General at the ILO.48 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.20 Define needs and update 
strategy for extended skills 
development programme for 
garment workers
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
Skills development is key for workers 
to increase their wages – and it is also 
essential for a developing garment 
industry and ultimately, also for our 
future growth. The challenge is that 
often skills are not sufficiently reflec  - 
ted in workers’ wages. A highly skilled  
worker might still be employed in a 
low-income job category. For those 
workers, this means few incentives 
to further improve their skills and 
understandably a source of frustra -
tion. For the factory this means 
unused potential. Another challenge 
is that workers who may want to 
advance do not have access to skills 
development, or they do not know 
about it or how to gain access. 
That’s why during 2014, we refined 
our strategies and mapped different  
existing projects and additional needs.  
Our goal is that all workers at H&M supplier factories should have access 
to relevant skills development pro -
grammes – and have employment  
and a wage that reflect their skills.  
As part of this, we will continue with 
an important project that we started 
in 2013 together with the ILO and 
the Swedish International Develop -
ment Cooperation Agency (SIDA) in 
Bangladesh. In a joint centre of excel -
lence, we aim to train 5,000 students 
until the end of 2016. In China, we  
initiated a career-training programme  
reaching out to about 8,000 young 
migrant workers in 9 factories. Based 
on these experiences we will set up or 
connect with further local projects, 
based on local needs and conditions.
>ilo.org
>sida.se
49 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSFocus: Industrial relations
We believe that functioning industrial 
relations and collective bargaining 
are the ultimate keys to achieving 
fair living wages and good working 
conditions in our supply chain. This 
also helps to create stable sourcing 
markets and sustainable economic 
growth in these countries. Our Code 
of Conduct requires that all of our 
suppliers respect the right to freedom  
of association. However, many markets  
lack sufficient systems. For example,  
in China and Vietnam, freedom of  
association is restricted by law, whereas  
in Cambodia, union representation is 
common but negotiations often result 
in conflicts and sometimes even vio -
lence. While we are realistic about the 
fact that there is a long way to go until 
fair and functioning industrial rela -
tions processes are in place through -
out, this is the ultimate aim.In order to achieve fair and functioning 
industrial relations, we are addressing 
the issue with our supplier factories as  
well as on the industry and government  
level. Freedom of association is a clear 
demand in our Code of Conduct. In 
2011, we made a major shift in the way 
we assess compliance with this require -
ment in our audit programme. Instead 
of asking if a worker’s right to freedom 
of association is respected, we now 
measure if trade unions are actually 
in place. Factories with trade union 
representation or a collective bargain -
ing agreement are now rewarded with 
higher ICoC scores. Where union-
isation is restricted by law or where 
systems are insufficient, we work to 
empower workers with awareness 
about their rights at work and to help 
our suppliers establish functioning and 
democratically elected workplace rep -
resentation. The aim is that these will 
develop into mature collective bargain -
ing systems. Beyond the factory level, 
we work with governments and other 
partners such as unions to promote the 
required legal frameworks and help to 
mature the concept of solution-oriented 
negotiations amongst both employers 
and worker representatives.COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
AGREEMENTS
PEACEFUL CONFLICT 
RESOLUTION
STRUCTURES FOR SOCIAL DIALOGUE 
BETWEEN EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES
EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYER AWARENESS 
OF WORKERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
EFFECTIVE LEGAL FRAMEWORK50 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSFocus: Industrial relations
NEW 2.21 Ensure democrati -
cally elected workplace repre -
sentation at all our strategic 
supplier factories 
DEADLINE STATUS
2018 on track
Functioning industrial relations 
and collective bargaining are key to 
achieving fair living wages and good 
working conditions. Workers must 
be free to form or join a trade union 
and be able to bargain collectively in 
areas such as wages. While we are 
realistic about the fact that there is 
a long way to go until fair and func -
tioning industrial relations processes 
are in place all around the world, we 
want to set an example for our indus -
try. Our goal is for all of our strategic 
supplier factories to have democrati -
cally elected and functional work -
place representation in place by 2018 
at the latest. 
Given widely varying pre-conditions 
from market to market, we will apply 
locally adapted approaches to achieve 
this. This means that where func -
tional union and collective bargaining  systems exist, we will continue to 
help strengthen them. Where this is 
not the case, we will work with our 
strategic suppliers to develop factory-
based worker representation that is 
democratically elected. As part of 
this, we have set up dedicated local 
projects (s. 2.22, 2.23 and 2.24). By 
developing a new supplier assessment  
method (s. 2.6), we are currently also  
strengthening our data collection so 
that we can track the performance  
against these goals also in regard 
to democratically elected workplace 
representation. This is a unique 
approach and ambition in our indus -
try and we hope that it will inspire 
others to follow and support our 
efforts.2.22 Expand social dialogue 
project in Bangladesh to 
reach all supplier factories
DEADLINE STATUS
2018 on track
In 2011, we launched a social dialogue  
project in Bangladesh. The aim is to 
help supplier factories in establishing  
democratically elected workplace 
committees and to improve the 
dialogue between management and 
factory employees. Since then, we 
collaborated with external experts 
to train the management and work -
ers which finally led to the free 
election of workplace committees 
that are in an active dialogue with 
the management. Our goal for 2014 
was to expand this project and cover 
15% of our Bangladeshi supplier 
factories. We exceeded this goal and 
reached over 20%. As a result of the 
project, 30 factories now have work -
place committees in place with over 
70,000 workers represented by them. 
Another 30 factories are currently 
in the process of setting up commit -
tees. With this progress, our target 
is now to reach 100% of the Bangla -deshi factories in the project by 2018 
at the latest. This project marks the 
starting point for our goal to ensure 
democratically elected workplace 
representation at all strategic suppli -
ers globally (s. 2.21) and we will use 
these experiences when rolling out 
similar projects in other markets.
51 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSFocus: Industrial relations
2.23 Support an increa  sed 
number of collective bargain -
ing agreements and improve 
the industrial relation process 
in Cambodia together with 
ILO/IF Metall and SIDA
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track
Unlike many other countries in the 
region, Cambodia has a history of 
trade union representation. The vast 
majority of our supplier factories in  
the country have trade unions in place.  
However, negotiations in the sector 
are often confrontational, resulting 
in major conflicts and even violence.  
Currently, 18% of our supplier facto -
ries in Cambodia have collective 
bargaining agreements in place. 
Together with the ILO, the Swedish 
trade union IF Metall and the Swed -
ish International Cooperation Devel -
opment Agency (SIDA), we have now 
started a unique project that will run 
through 2014 to 2016. The aim of the 
project is to increase this number, 
create best practice examples for fair  
and solution-oriented negotiations  
and ultimately contribute to greater stability in the market. To achieve 
this, we are working jointly to improve  
negotiations and conflict resolution 
skills amongst both employers and 
unions and working with government 
institutions to help them establish 
frameworks that support this. Cur -
rently, five of our supplier factories 
in the country are participating in 
the programme. Training sessions 
conducted by IF Metall will run 
throughout 2015. Moving forward, 
we aim to include more supplier fac -
tories while establishing best practice 
examples that can lead the way for the 
industry show that solution-oriented 
collective bargaining is possible and 
for the benefit of all.
>ilo.org
>sida.se
>ifmetall.seNEW 2.24 Engage all strategic 
suppliers in China in social 
dialogue project
DEADLINE STATUS
2018 on track
In China, freedom of association is 
restricted by law. At the same time, 
the Chinese garment sector increas -
ingly faces challenges such as labour 
shortages and turnover issues as well 
as labour conflicts. Recent develop -
ments in Chinese legislation reflect 
a strong need for better employee 
relations and provide great opportu -
nities for the development of demo -
cratically elected worker committees. 
That’s why, building on our experi -
ences in Bangladesh, we have now 
launched a social dialogue project in 
China as well. The aim is to promote 
awareness of workers’ rights and 
responsibilities, two-way commu -
nication between management and 
workers, peaceful conflict resolution 
and collective consultation in Chinese 
factories. The management, HR staff, 
CSR staff, supervisors and worker 
representatives will take part in a 
series of training courses and assess -ments that will give them the skills 
and knowledge needed to have a con -
structive dialogue about issues that 
are important to the workers.
We started in autumn 2014 with two 
strategic suppliers and aim to add 
another 8 suppliers in spring 2015. 
By then, this will affect about 8,200 
workers. From here, we plan to scale 
up the project rapidly to ultimately 
include all of our strategic suppliers 
by 2018.2.25 Provide workers and 
mid dle managers in supplier fac -
tories in India and Bangladesh 
with training about their rights
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
In 2008, we teamed up with suppliers 
and local NGOs in Bangladesh to 
develop a series of short films and 
training packages in order to increase 
awareness of workers’ rights. In 2013, 
we expanded this programme to India. 
Just in 2014, over 440,000 workers 
and middle managers were trained.
NO. OF WORKERS EDUCATED ON  
THEIR RIGHTS PER YEAR
BANGLADESH
INDIA
169,071
128,958281,657 
6,92242,497433,265
28,807115,195128,790
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 201452 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
Being ethical is about doing 
the right thing. This means 
respecting human rights, taking  
a clear stance against corruption and 
embracing diversity and inclusion. 
It also means, of course, to respect 
laws and regulations wherever we 
operate and to pay taxes  accordingly. 
We interact with millions of people 
across various countries and cultures. 
Whether you are a customer, colleague,  
business partner or any other stake -
holder, we believe that mutual respect, 
integrity, transparency and honesty 
are essential to our business. Our 
commitment to be ethical throughout 
our operations is firmly rooted in our 
corporate values.  — COMMITMENT THREE —
Be  
ethical53 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
Introduced new policy for how to address 
HIV/AIDS amongst our colleagues 
in a responsible manner.Key performance 2014
SHARE OF FEMALES AMONGST  
ALL COLLEAGUES VS. MANAGEMENT 
POSITIONS
76%  
female72%  
female
All 
colleaguesManagement 
positionsPERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES 
COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
AGREEMENTS
2013 2012 201460%
56%
53%This is Lynsey Buell . 
She works as a sales 
advisor  at our H&M 
store on 5th Avenue, 
New York City.
She is one of 215 
colleagues  here.She is part of a global 
team of over 132,000 
people  from various 
backgrounds and with 
different personalities.
The H&M Way guides 
us all in living our 
corporate values , 
in fighting 
corruption  and 
respecting human 
rights  wherever 
we operate.54 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALPROGRESS OVERVIEWDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – ANTI-CORRUPTION
3.1 Detect violations of our Code of Ethics year-to-year
3.2 Ensure that all colleagues concerned have signed our Code of Ethics (CoE) and received dedicated training year-to-year
3.3 Update and implement additional training for managers 2014
3.4 Ensure that all our commercial goods suppliers have signed our Code of Ethics year-to-year
FOCUS – EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
3.5 NEW Increase employee satisfaction in each market bi-annually
3.6 NEW Set up global grievance and complaint register 2015
3.7 Reach all of our colleagues with our learning management system “GROW” 2014
3.8 Ensure good workplace relations and dialogue with our colleagues and their representatives year-to-year
3.9 NEW Develop global policy for severe diseases in collaboration with ILOAIDS and SWHAP 2015
3.10 NEW Increase compliance level with all safety standards to 90% in all stores globally 2015
FOCUS – HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT
3.11 Ensure compliance with our discrimination and equality and harassment policies year-to-year
3.12 Assess human rights risks and impacts before entering any new market (production and sales) year-to-year
3.13 NEW Role out in-depth human rights training for key functions 2015
3.14 Promote increased awareness and respect for human rights and equality by partnering with Civil Rights Defenders 2016
3.15 Ensure compliance with our customer privacy policy year-to-year
FOCUS – DIVERSITY & EQUALITY
3.16 NEW Update our diversity policy and ensure compliance 2015
FOCUS – RESPONSIBLE MARKETING
3.17 Ensure compliance with our advertising policy year-to-year55 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our missionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALOur strategyFocus: Anti-corruption
Corruption is a challenge in most of 
our production countries and also in 
many sales markets. We have a zero 
tolerance policy towards this and take 
a proactive approach in preventing 
it. Mutual trust and transparency are 
important and expected in all of our 
relationships, including those with 
our colleagues and business partners. 
Education, building awareness and 
zero tolerance are effective tools in 
preventing corruption among our col -
leagues and business partners.We make it a point to act with integrity at all times. 
We have based our entire Code of Ethics on the 
strictest regulations and legislation regarding cor -
ruption. It outlines our commitment to compliance 
in each country we operate in and to not accept or 
facilitate any form of corruption. In early 2013, we 
became a Corporate Supporter Member of Trans -
parency International Sweden to demonstrate our 
commitment to integrity and our support for the 
fight against corruption. We conduct regular risk 
assessments for all of our business units and for our 
business partners. Based on these, the code applies 
to all of our business partners and colleagues who 
are in regular contact with any of them. We have made  
it mandatory for all our partners to sign the code 
and go through dedicated training. We have internal  
audit systems and a whistleblowing procedure in 
place whereby potential breaches can be reported 
confidentially, anonymously and without any risk  
of reprisals. We follow up on reported incidents 
thoroughly. We focus on achieving the greatest pos -
sible transparency in all of our business relations  
to thereby detect any non-compliance.
>hm.com/anticorruption
56 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALInterview with Johan Gernandt, 
Chairman Transparency International (TI) Sweden
“We would like to see H&M continue to be  
a leading company when it comes to ethical 
work and anti-corruption, both internally  
and externally”.  
Johan Gernandt, Chairman Transparency InternationalWhat are the biggest challenges for  
a company like H&M when it comes  
to corruption and business ethics?
As a major listed company, H&M is 
subject to a higher degree of, and 
in some cases disproportionate and 
unbalanced, attention from the media 
and H&M’s shareholders, customers 
and other stakeholders have very high 
demands on H&M in relation to ethi -
cal conduct of business. In addition, 
companies like H&M face particularly 
difficult challenges since they oper -
ate in jurisdictions where corruption 
is widespread and the protection of 
human rights is low. 
How do you think H&M performs  
in this area?
I think that H&M takes a very serious 
view on business ethics and fighting  
corruption, that these issues are highly  
prioritised by top management, and 
that procedures in these respects 
seem to be well integrated into H&M’s 
business strategies. In my work as a 
lawyer, I have seen several cases of 
the difficulties companies with global 
operations face. Comparing H&M to Focus: Anti-corruption
such companies, I believe that H&M 
performs well.
What does the collaboration between 
H&M and TI entail?
H&M is a member of TI Sweden’s 
Corporate Supporters’ Forum, which 
is a network against corruption and 
includes a number of major Swedish 
companies with international business.
What would you like to see from 
H&M in the future?
We would like to see H&M continue  
to be a leading company when it comes 
to ethical work and anti-corruption, 
both internally and externally.57 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Anti-corruption
Rather than aiming for zero cases on 
paper, our goal is to actually find the 
cases where our Code of Ethics has 
been violated. In 2014, we investi -
gated 30 (2013: 36) incidents of 
potential non-compliance. These 
investigations led to actions in 18 
cases* (2013: 18), nine terminations 
and nine warnings. The actions in-  
cluded both employees and business  
partners. Investigations were con -
ducted based on direct reports from 
our business partners and employ -
ees who made use of our open-door 
policy, complaint procedure or 
whistleblowing instruments. Most 
of the cases concerned requests for 
money or personal favours, conflict 
of interest or theft.
>hm.com/anticorruption3.1 Detect violations of our 
Code of Ethics
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
All colleagues who are in regular 
contact with business partners, in-  
house  consultants and our Board  
of Directors are required to sign our  
Code of Ethics, receive relevant train -
ing and obviously comply with it.  
To maintain this systematically, we 
have made the signing of our Code 
of Ethics a routine element when 
entering new employment contracts 
globally. As a result, by 2014, 100% of 
these colleagues had signed the Code.
But signing the Code of Ethics is no 
guarantee that individuals are fully 
aware of its contents and, what’s more,  
feel confident in complying with it. 
Education and training are most 
certainly needed. We have made this 
a mandatory element of our training 
for all concerned colleagues and the 
education rates have continued to 
increase to 83% (2013: 60%, 2012: 3.2 Ensure that all colleagues 
concerned have signed our 
Code of Ethics (CoE) and 
received dedicated training
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on track47%) for all markets identified as 
higher risk, as well as to 68% across 
all markets. While this is a great step 
forward, we will continue working 
towards our goal of reaching 100% 
in the high-risk markets by 2015 and 
to maintain this level.
>hm.com/codeofethicsAll of our managers play a key role 
in preventing and fighting corruption.  
They are role models for their teams, 
colleagues and business partners 
alike and ultimately responsible 
for implementing our values and 
routines. We equip them with all the 
necessary tools to take this responsi -
bility through additional tailor-made 
training. In 2014 we intensified our 
education programmes for managers, 
starting with priority sourcing and 
sales markets such as China, Bang -
ladesh and our head office functions. 
We will continue the global imple -
mentation through 2015 and 2016.3.3 Update and implement 
additional training for man -
agers
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
We’ve had our Code of Ethics in place 
since 2003 and all of our business 
partners are required to sign. In 2012,  
we updated our Code of Ethics for 
business partners to clearly state that 
any kind of bribery will always be 
addressed and may result in a termi -
nation of our business relationship. 
We focus on our commercial goods 
suppliers as they form by far the big -
gest group of business partners. To 
date, 100% of our commercial goods 
suppliers have signed our Code and 
received dedicated training. By not 
accepting any kind of corruption or 
bribery, we want to contribute to 
sustainable development and positive 
value building in all our markets. 
In particular, we focus on high risk 
countries, which we identify through 
our assessments and for example 
Transparency International’s Global 
Corruption Perception Index, such as 
Cambodia, Bangladesh and Russia.3.4 Ensure that all of our com -
mercial goods suppliers have 
signed our Code of Ethics
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
*Please find an independent assurance 
statement related to GRI G4 SO5 here 
(p. 112).58 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Employer of choice
We want to be the employer of choice 
for the talent we need to attract in the 
future and, of course, continue to be 
so for our current 132,000 colleagues. 
Working at H&M means working in 
an inspiring, fast-paced, exciting and 
ever-changing environment with 
numerous career opportunities. Our 
goal is to increase the number of stores  
by 10–15% per year. As part of this, we 
will need to attract thousands of new 
talents over the coming years. And we  
need to retain and develop the talent  
we already have. Being a good employer  
is particularly important in countries 
where laws and regulations fall short 
of our own standards and require -
ments. Wherever we operate, we need 
to ensure that our corporate values 
are lived throughout our operations.We recruit from within the company 
wherever possible and provide training 
and regular performance reviews for  
all of our colleagues. Wherever we 
operate, we follow the same strong 
corporate values. We believe in people  
and encourage new ideas and initia -
tives. We keep hierarchies low, provide  
a wide range of benefits adjusted to 
local needs and contexts and promote 
teamwork. Through the H&M Incen -
tive Programme , all of our colleagues 
benefit from the company’s success  
on equal terms, regardless of their 
position. We promote diversity and 
strive to have good relations with all 
of our colleagues and the employee 
associations and trade unions that 
represent them. This also includes 
ensuring a healthy working environ -
ment and good work-life balance. We 
survey job satisfaction anonymously 
and have made this a key measure -
ment for all of our business units.
>hm.com/career
59 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Employer of choice
Being an attractive employer is very  
important to us. In 2013 and 2014, 
we surveyed our colleagues all around 
the world anonymously to get feed -
back on how they feel about working 
at H&M. We analysed the data and 
found that satisfaction varied widely 
from market to market. As each mar -
ket is unique, we tailor-made solu -
tions in order to explore and share 
best practice examples. All markets 
have now set individual goals to in  - 
crease employee satisfaction. We have  
made these goals one of the key 
measurements for each market and 
integrated them in our global perfor -
mance review tool, our 4C scorecard 
(Cash, Customers, Colleagues and 
Conscious) and included up to 3 key 
performance indicators for each of 
these categories which are reviewed 
annually by our CEO with each  Straightforwardness is one of our 
corporate values. We have an open-
door policy and encourage frank and 
respectful dialogue. We genuinely 
want to know how things are going. 
For many years we have had a global 
complaint procedure in place that 
provides guidance and protection 
for anyone who, in good faith, lodges 
a complaint. So far, any complaints 
were registered and followed up 
market by market. To gain better 
knowledge over the extent and con -
tent of such complaints and to share 
best practice amongst our markets, 
we plan to set up a global complaint 
register in 2015.NEW 3.5 Increase employee 
satisfaction in each marketNEW 3.6 Set up global griev -
ance and complaint register
DEADLINE STATUS
bi-annually on trackDEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackmarket. We plan to conduct this  
survey bi-annually with help from 
the Great Place to Work Institute  
to follow up on our continued per -
formance.
*Our brands Monki and Weekday have 
not been included in the survey.We have implemented our global 
learning management system GROW 
in almost all of our markets. A total 
of 79% of our colleagues are now 
covered by the system with the 
exception of the roll out for the US 
and Germany expected to take place 
in 2015. The system allows our col -
leagues to manage their training,  
access additional optional e-learning  
or classroom courses and test their 
knowledge. Sustainability training 
is one of our mandatory training 
courses for all colleagues. Additional 
modules cater to role-specific needs. 
>hm.com/training3.7 Reach all of our colleagues 
with our learning manage -
ment system “GROW”
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 more to do79% 
of our colleagues are 
now covered by our training 
system “GROW”
60 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Employer of choice
As our Global Framework Agreement  
with UNI Global Union clearly states,  
we as a company and our colleagues 
are jointly responsible for comply -
ing with the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights  
at Work. This includes our commit -
ment to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining across all of  
our operations. Employees are also 
represented at the board level. Besides  
various engagements on the local 
level, our global Employee Relations 
Manager holds regular meetings 
with representatives of the European  
Works Council (EWC) that comprises  
employee representatives from some  
of our most important sales coun -
tries including Germany, UK, France 
and Sweden. Currently, 53% of our 
colleagues are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements (2013: 56%). 3.8 Ensure good workplace 
relations and dialogue with 
our colleagues and their rep -
resentatives
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on trackWith our continued global growth, 
we sometimes face very specific chal -
lenges and often less mature labour 
regulations and systems for work -
place relations. In China, for exam -
ple, unionisation is restricted by 
law. This is gradually reducing the 
ratio of colleagues who are covered 
by collective bargaining agreements, 
mainly because we have an increas -
ing number of colleagues in markets 
where these do not sufficiently exist. 
That’s why we are currently speak -
ing with UNI Global Union to set 
up additional partnerships beyond 
our existing framework agreement 
specifically for each of these markets 
to jointly define minimum standards  
where existing legislations falls short  
of our values. 
>hm.com/fairpartner
>uniglobalunion.orgDuring 2015, we plan to open our 
first stores in South Africa. This will 
mark our first store in Sub-Saharan 
Africa and a step into a new market 
that presents great opportunities, 
for us as well as the community, but 
also new challenges. About 18% of 
the population between the ages of 
15 and 49 live with HIV*, one of the 
highest rates in the world. That’s 
why we teamed up with ILOAIDS, 
the UN’s lead agency for HIV/AIDS 
policies and programmes in the world  
of work, and SWHAP, the Swedish 
Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme,  
to discuss how we as an employer 
can ensure the best possible working  
environment and support for col -
leagues who are HIV positive. We 
developed a global policy to guide  
us in all of our operations as a result, NEW 3.9 Develop global 
policy for severe diseases in 
collaboration with ILOAIDS 
and SWHAP
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
*Source: cia.gov53% 
of our colleagues are covered 
by collective bargaining 
agreements
not only in South Africa, to support 
all of our colleagues who are in any 
way affected by HIV/AIDS, for exam -
ple, by providing them with access  
to treatment and by offering preven -
tion programmes in areas with high 
or increasing HIV prevalence. This 
policy will be rolled out to all of our 
markets in 2015.
>iloaids.org
>swhap.org
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL COLLEAGUES 
COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
AGREEMENTS
2013 2012 201460%
56%
53%61 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Employer of choice
We want to ensure an inspiring and 
safe environment for our colleagues 
and customers. We have clear safety 
requirements and guidelines in place 
that all stores must follow. We monitor 
compliance through regular store 
audits. In 2014, we conducted over 
4,300 audits and found a compliance  
rate of 84% with our safety require -
ments. The main areas of non-com -
pliance included omitting to provide 
new employees with safety training 
on their first day of work – a chal -
lenge on a normal working day, but 
a requirement that is one of our 
highest priorities. Our target is to 
achieve a compliance level of 90% 
by 2015. In order to achieve this, 
after each audit we create action 
plans to tackle any non-compliance 
systematically. We provide differ -
ent kinds of safety training ranging 
from mandatory emergency evacu -
ation practice to more role-specific NEW 3.10 Increase compliance  
level with all safety standards 
to 90% in all stores globally
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on tracktraining. We will continue to focus 
on ensuring that adequate training 
and follow-up is in place.
62 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Human rights management
We have operations and suppliers in 
countries where human rights are at 
risk. Respecting human rights is vital 
to us as an employer, business partner 
and corporate citizen. Consequently, 
we have developed a group-wide 
human rights policy based on the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. This policy defines 
our responsibility to respect human 
rights by remediating actual impacts 
and to work to prevent potential 
impacts throughout our value chain. 
To secure its implementation and 
compliance, we need to have the right 
systems and tools in place that help 
us to assess and manage our impacts. We routinely assess and manage the human rights 
impacts of our business based on the operational 
context, our level of influence and business relation -
ships. We prioritise our own operations and commer -
cial goods suppliers. We focus on three key human 
rights that are particularly important to our industry: 
labour conditions, women’s rights and the right to 
water. We integrate human rights into all relevant 
business decisions and have therefore established 
systems and tools for due diligence, risk and impact 
assessments and, where needed, remediation. 
In 2014, we developed additional tools based on 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights  to help us assess human rights impacts that 
can be applied to potential scenarios to help shape 
our strategies going forward. For example, we worked 
together with the NGO SHIFT to develop training for 
concerned colleagues and suppliers. Specific policies 
guide our efforts for different stakeholder groups, 
such as our Code of Conduct, our discrimination and 
equality policy (s. 3.11), our advertising policy (s. 3.17) 
and our privacy policies (s. 3.15). We have complaint 
procedures and audit systems in place. In addition, 
we promote respect for human rights through a set of 
other engagements such as public policy, stakeholder 
dialogues and partnerships. As human rights concern 
various parts of our business, tools to assess and man -
age our impacts are increasingly integrated across our 
organisation and therefore a vital part of all of our 
seven commitments.
63 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Human rights management
All of our stores, offices and ware -
houses* regularly undergo audits in 
which we check compliance with our 
policies and routines. This includes 
our discrimination and equality pol -
icy, as well as our harassment policy. 
For 2014, we identified a global com  - 
pliance level of 100%. Our goal is to 
maintain this level while improving  
our audit routines to detect any non-  
compliance. As part of this, we are 
currently working on building a 
global register for complaints filed 
according to our complaint procedure  
(s.3.6).Our human rights policy commits us 
to conducting human rights risk and 
impact assessments before entering 
new production or sales markets. 
This goes for all production markets 
that we have sourced from since 2013  
(Ethiopia, Kenya, Myanmar). Gradu -
ally we’ve extended these assessments  
to include existing production mar -
kets, together now covering about 90% 
of our production volume. We also 
assessed all new sales markets* that 
opened in 2014 or that are planned 
for 2015. In 2014, together with the independ -
ent non-profit organisation SHIFT, 
we developed an updated, in-depth 
training programme. This training 
targets our top management in  
both our sales country offices and 
our production offices as well as 
key colleagues in functions such 
as Sustainability, HR and Security. 
It provides insight into actual and 
potential human rights impacts and  
equips our colleagues in these areas 
with hands-on knowledge and tools 
to help implement our human rights 
policy. During 2015, we will focus 
on rolling this training out to our 
sustainability teams and key decision 
makers in our sourcing organisation. 
>shiftproject.orgIn early 2014, we entered into a part  - 
nership with Civil Rights Defenders. 
We will contribute SEK 4 million 
over a period of three years to sup -
port their work for human rights 
and equality globally. The projects 
supported include protecting human 
rights defenders at risk and LGBT* 
rights in Central Asia.
>civilrightsdefenders.org3.11 Ensure compliance with  
our discrimination and equal -
ity and harassment policies3.12 Assess human rights risks 
and impacts before entering 
any new market (production 
and sales)NEW 3.13 Role out in-depth 
human rights training for key 
functions3.14 Promote increased 
awareness and respect for 
human rights and equality 
by partnering with Civil 
Rights DefendersDEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year doneDEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year doneDEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track
*Franchise operations not included*Excluding Australia which we considered 
low risk from the startWe have privacy policies in place 
committing us to ensure the privacy 
of all data concerning our custom -
ers, employees and job applicants. 
All customer data used in connection  
to our online shops is held centrally 
and subject to strict Swedish data-
privacy laws. Any complaints are 
handled by the responsible depart -
ments, for example, our customer 
service centers. Where needed, we 
have a head office data privacy team 
that helps them resolve any issue. 
As data privacy cannot be taken 
seriously enough, we continuously 
work to improve our systems and 
processes.3.15 Ensure compliance with 
our customer privacy policy
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on track
*Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender64 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Diversity & equality
Diversity and inclusion are clearly 
assets to the company. The majority 
of our customers and colleagues are 
women. This should be and is well 
reflected in our management. We need  
to ensure that we live our values in our 
around 3,500 stores as well as our 
offices and warehouses in all of our 
markets. We promote everyone from 
floor managers to board members 
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, 
sexual orientation, religious beliefs, 
disability and more wherever we oper -
ate and ensure equality at all times.Diversity and equality are part of  
our values. So, promoting our corpo -
rate values is also key in achieving 
this. In addition, we have a group-
wide diversity policy in place, as well 
as a discrimination and equality and 
harassment policy (s. 3.11). We check 
how well our stores, offices and ware -
houses comply with these policies 
through regular audits and we have 
clearly communicated complaint pro -
cedures in place. Our aim is to achieve 
full compliance with these policies. 
Additionally, we promote diversity 
and equality beyond our operations 
and strive to show diverse looks in 
our advertising.
>hm.com/diversity
65 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Diversity & equality
Diversity is a natural part of our  
culture, and openness and tolerance 
are part of what we call an “H&M 
personality”. Since 76% of our col -
leagues are female, it is integral to  
our operations that leadership reflects  
that. Some 72% of our managers 
and 50% of our board members are 
women. However, to ensure that we 
live up to these ambitions especially 
when entering new markets, we have 
had a global diversity policy in place 
for many years. Through our internal 
audits, we have found that the vast 
majority of our stores, offices and 
warehouses have implemented it. 
To make the policy even stronger 
and include additional aspects, we 
will roll out an updated policy in 
2015. We also plan to further streng -
then our tools to follow up on its 
implementation through a global 
complaint register (s. 3.6). NEW 3.16 Update our diversity 
policy and ensure compliance 
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
SHARE OF FEMALES AMONGST ALL 
COLLEAGUES VS. MANAGEMENT POSITIONSBOARD OF DIRECTORS GENDER SPLIT
76%  
female 72%  
female
All 
colleaguesManagement 
positions50%  
female50%  
male
Including store managers66 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Responsible marketing
Our advertising campaigns are one 
of the many ways we communicate 
our business idea. They have a broad 
impact in our 55 sales countries. We 
work with some of the world’s best 
photographers, models and style icons,  
aiming to inspire a wide and diverse 
target group. In doing so, balancing 
individual and cultural perceptions 
and customer demands requires sen -
sitivity and tact. We need to ensure  
a diverse and healthy look while pro -
ducing high-fashion images and mes -
sages that support current trends and 
our customer offering in an inspiring 
way. Also, we need to ensure that any 
data we gather for marketing or any 
other purposes is treated with the 
highest possible integrity and privacy.All of our campaigns are produced 
centrally at our head office in Stock -
holm in collaboration with some of 
the world’s most recognised creatives 
and models. For many years, we have 
had an advertising policy in place 
that entails taking responsibility for 
the impact of our advertising around 
the world and choosing models and 
images that convey a positive message.  
We regularly conduct customer surveys  
to measure the feedback from our 
campaigns and are happy to see that 
they are generally well appreciated. 
And we always aim for constant im  - 
provement and strive to consider any 
feedback that we receive right from 
the start of any campaign we create.
>hm.com/responsiblemarketing
67 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICALFocus: Responsible marketing
Our advertising has a broad impact 
on many people in all 55 sales 
countries. Our advertising policy 
commits us to featuring models with 
different looks, styles and cultural 
backgrounds. Of course, we want 
our advertising to inspire as many 
people as possible and we target a 
wide and diverse target group. The 
challenge we face is to balance indi -
vidual and cultural perceptions, cus -
tomer demands, diversity of models, 
looks and attitudes and at the same 
time produce high-fashion images 
and messages that support current 
trends and our customer offering in 
an inspiring way – without conveying  
any specific ideal or encouraging a 
choice of lifestyle. We try to take all 
of these aspects into consideration 
right from the start when planning 
our campaigns and constantly 
im prove our internal routines and 
systems to ensure this. For example, 
we follow multi-tier check systems 3.17 Ensure compliance with 
our advertising policy
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on trackfor each image and produce an even 
larger variety of images at each shoot.  
Accordingly, during 2014, we received 
a lot of positive feedback on our 
campaigns. However, there may 
always be perspectives and global 
developments that we can’t foresee. 
During 2014, we also received com -
ments from some of our customers 
that one look featured in an H&M 
campaign during the summer 
reminded them of the look of female 
Peshmerga fighters. While the design  
for this product was developed long 
before the developments that led to 
broad media attention on the Pesh   - 
merga, it has naturally never been our 
intention to make such a connection.
>hm.com/responsiblemarketing
68 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Climate change is one of the 
major challenges of our time. 
The UN estimates that by 2050,  
the global temperature will increase 
by more than 2°C compared to pre-
industrial levels – making the most 
serious consequences of climate change  
irreversible.* Also, with the global 
population pushing towards 10 billion 
people** and with the global middle 
class on the rise, the need for energy 
will most likely increase even further.
We believe that we all have a respon -
sibility to meet climate challenges. 
So we want to be as climate smart as 
possible – for example, by only using 
renewable energy in our stores, offices 
and warehouses wherever this is cred -
ibly available and feasible. In doing so,  
we expect to reduce our emissions, 
despite our continued growth, by well 
over 50% compared to 2010 already 
by 2015. 
That said, looking at our products’ 
lifecycle, we know that the most 
significant climate impacts happen 
outside of our own operations, mostly 
when the fabric is made and in washer 
and dryer use at home. That’s why we  — COMMITMENT FOUR —
Be climate  
smart
increasingly work to help our partners 
and inspire our customers to make 
climate-smart choices so that we 
together strengthen our climate efforts.
*www.ipcc.ch  
**Source: un.org69 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART
Key performance 2014
CHANGE IN TOTAL CO2 e EMISSIONS TO 
PREVIOUS YEAR IN % (SCOPE 1+2) VS. 
GROWTH IN SALES (IN LOCAL CURRENCIES)
NET SALESEMISSIONS
+10%
+6%
-4%+12%
+9%+18%
2012 2013 2014SHARE OF RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY IN ALL 
OUR STORES, OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES
18%27%approx.
80%*
*100% in all markets, where this is feasible and 
renewable electricity is credibly available. This is 
currently not the case in, for example, China .2015
(Goal)
2014 20132020
(Goal)-20%ELECTRICITY USE REDUCTION PER H&M 
(BRAND) STORE SQM COMPARED TO 2007
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
-8%
-10%
-14% -14%-12%
We will further reduce 
our climate impacts  
by going all in for 
renewable electricity  
wherever this is credibly 
available and feasible 
already by 2015.
This T-shirt has been 
made with 100% 
certified organic 
cotton .
It’s been transported  
to our warehouse from the 
supplier by ship and train , 
as around 90% of all our 
products are .That means 
46% less climate 
impact  than using 
conventional cotton.
Washing at 30°C 
instead of 60°C  will 
cut energy use in half  
and save you money too.About 26% of the 
carbon emissions  
in its life occur 
when it’s washed 
and cared for 
at home .70 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTPROGRESS OVERVIEWDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – EMISSIONS FROM OUR OWN OPERATIONS
4.1 Reduce our operations’ total greenhouse gas emissions 2015
4.2 NEW Use renewable electricity only* 2015
4.3 Reduce electricity use in H&M (brand) stores by 20% per sqm 2020
FOCUS – EMISSIONS ALONG OUR VALUE CHAIN
4.4Ensure that 100% of transport service providers are either SmartWay partners (North America), WayAhead registered (Europe and Asia) 
or participating in the Clean Shipping Projectyear-to-year
4.5 NEW Develop a method to report on value-chain greenhouse gas emission reduction 2015
4.6 NEW Align with best practice in responsible corporate engagement in climate policy 2016
*In all markets where renewable electricity is credibly available and feasible.71 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategyCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTOur missionFocus: Emissions from our own operations
Retail is a relatively low-carbon busi -
ness. But the consequences of climate 
change are as likely to affect us as 
everyone else on our planet, including  
our suppliers, colleagues and custom -
ers. So it is essential that we do every  - 
thing we can to reduce climate impact.  
In our own operations, which we can 
influence and control ourselves, this 
means nothing less than striving for 
the lowest climate impact possible. Our main focus is on our stores where 
more than 80% of our electricity use 
occurs. We want to be as energy savvy 
as possible. However, it is, of course, 
not possible to completely avoid elec -
tricity use. Instead we made a decision 
to shift all the electricity we use to 
renewable sources wherever this is 
credibly available. This means that  
we plan to purchase about 80% of 
all the electricity used in our stores, 
offices and warehouses from renewa -
ble sources by 2015. This way, we will  
reduce our emissions through struc -
tural and lasting change and push the  
boundaries way beyond what science  
tells us is needed for keeping the global  
temperature below the expected 2°C 
increase by 2050. 
>hm.com/climate
>ghgprotocol.org 2014
-4% total CO2e emissions 
(= -16% per million SEK sales)
2015
Renewable electricity only
wherever credibly available and feasible  
– approx. 80% of our total electricity use.
BEYOND 2015
-20% electricity use per store sqm 
by 2020. Further expand our use of renewable 
electricity as this becomes credibly available 
in additional markets*.
*Such as China or Peru, where we currently consider the sourcing of renewable electricity as not credible.CLIMATE IMPACT
total CO2e emissions
GROWTH
10–15% new stores 
each yearCLIMATE SCIENCE 
RECOMMENDATION72 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTInterview with Ben Ferrari, Director of Partnerships, The Climate Group 
What role do retail and fashion brands play 
in tackling climate change?
Retail and fashion brands can play a major role in mak -
ing progressive corporate behaviour the new normal and 
help create the low-carbon economy that we all urgently 
need. The majority of these brands have large and 
inter  national supply-chain operations. Through these 
operations and relationships, companies can exert huge 
positive influence on the behaviour of their suppliers 
and partners with regard to reducing emissions, increas -
ing resilience and promoting wise use of resources. 
But critically, these are also some of the most visible  
brands on the high street and their customers are 
increasingly value conscious.  This creates an oppor -
tunity for such brands to show that paying attention to 
emissions and reducing the use of scarce resources does 
not have to result in higher costs for customers – despite 
the fact that much media commentary does tend to 
suggest such an impact is inevitable. So there is scope 
for retail and fashion brands to contribute massively to 
showing their customers that taking climate action can 
also create real value for consumers and that we can 
achieve a thriving low-carbon economy.
 
How do you see H&M’s role in this?
Leadership is critical to achieving the change that we 
need. It is encouraging when any company commits to 
a progressive and ambitious strategy.  However, climate 
science tells us that we need to achieve a great deal in terms of emissions reductions in a short 
space of time. Therefore, we need the 
biggest companies to act in order to make 
real change in terms of our impact on 
emissions.  And we need those actions to 
be visible to the public and to policy mak -
ers in order to help alter the narrative  
about the role of corporates in achieving  
the essential transitions to a safer, low-
carbon future.  H&M has the scale in its  
operations and customer base to achieve 
real impact by making changes and show  - 
ing leadership through public commit -
ments – it is great to see that happening.
 
What do you think about H&M’s decision 
to use only renewable electricity wher -
ever this is credibly available by 2015?
We believe that the development of a 
thriving, global market for authentically renewable power will be a game-changer 
in securing the emissions reduction that  
climate science tells us it is critical to 
achieve. Business leadership is essential 
to making this change happen and it is 
very encouraging to see H&M making a 
public commitment to such a transition.   
This action helps to illustrate that there 
is real corporate demand for genuine 
renewable electricity and that this will 
scale up further in the future.  It is espe -
cially encouraging that H&M has made  
a public commitment to get on with this  
transition now and with a sense of urg -
ency – even if not all of its operations can 
be addressed straight away.  
We know that challenges to going 
100% renewable vary by sector, across 
geographies and even within a single 
company’s operations.  These realities 
must be faced and we know that making  decisions about the best ways to switch to  
credible, authentic renewable power options  
can be very challenging.  That is why we do  
not see this as a challenge that corporates 
should face alone – the right policy frame -
works need to be put in place by national  
and sub-national governments to make  
this happen. 
What would you like to see in the future?
We hope that H&M will continue to ex  pand 
procurement to cover as much of its operations 
as possible.  We hope that H&M will continue 
to work with us, through RE100, to ensure 
that utilities and other stakeholders under -
stand that demand for authentic renewable 
electricity is growing and that policy mak -
ers act to enable and incentivise progressive 
corporate behaviour in scaling up generation, 
procurement and use of renewable electricity.
“H&M has the scale in its operations and customer base to 
achieve real impact through changes and showing leadership by 
making public commitments – it is great to see that happening”.  
Ben Ferrari, Director of Partnerships, The Climate GroupFocus: Emissions from our own operations73 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTFocus: Emissions from our own operations
Originally our goal was to reduce our  
total emissions by 2015 while grow -
ing 10%-15% annually. We met this 
goal already this year and reduced 
our total emissions by 4% compared 
to 2013, which equals a reduction  
of 16% per million SEK in sales (incl. 
VAT). And we are now working to 
reduce these emissions even further 
and to exceed science-based recom -
mendations for how to keep the 
average global temperature increase 4.1 Reduce our operations’ 
total greenhouse gas emissions
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 done
*Our GHG emissions accounting and 
reporting is aligned with the GHG Protocol. 
Reported CO 2e emissions are based on 
residual grid mix emission factors where 
available. Figures based on grid average 
emission factors (comparable to emission 
figures published in our 2012 and 2013 
reports) were for 2014: scope 1: 10,723t , 
scope 2: 330,952t. For further details and 
data, please see our CDP Climate Change 
Investor Response 2013. CO 2e emissions 
include carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane 
(CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), hydrofluorocar -
bons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and 
sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6). Please find an 
independent assurance statement related to 
GRI G4 EN15 and EN16 here (p. 112).Using electricity from renewable 
sources is key to reducing our abso -
lute emissions. During 2015, for the 
first time in the history of the com -
pany, we’ll be sourcing 100% renew -
able electricity wherever it is credibly 
available and technically feasible. 
Currently 27%** of our total electricity 
consumption comes from renewables.  
(2013: 18% 2012: 18%, 2011: 15%). This 
is equivalent to the yearly electricity  
usage of around 85,000 households***.  
Additionally, our own solar panels  
at our warehouses generated approxi -
mately 785,000 kWh of electricity. At 
the end of the year, we plan to source 
about 80% of our electricity from 
renewable sources. Some limitations 
we currently face are lack of local 
renewables capacity, lack of tracking 
systems which eliminate double-
counting and the extreme location of 
an operation. This makes it very diffi -
cult to purchase renewable electricity 
credibly in some locations. So our task NEW 4.2  Use renewable elec -
tricity only*
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
*In all markets where renewable electricity  
is credibly available and feasible.
**31% considering only markets where 
renewable electricity is credibly available 
and feasible.
***Based on the world average electricty 
usage wec-indicators.enerdata.eu .
Please find an independent assurance 
statement related to GRI AF21 on p. 112.now is to secure the possibilities for 
credible purchasing of renewable elec -
tricity in these remaining locations. 
For example, we have entered into col -
laboration with The Climate Group’s 
RE100 where we hope to help make 
renewable electricity more readily avail -
able, for example, in China and India. 27% 
of our electricity use 
comes from renewable 
sources
TOTAL CO2E EMISSIONS IN TONNES  
(SCOPE 1+2) – INCL. RENEWABLES*
2011 2013 2012 201417,543t 15,282 16,435t10,723t272,735t310,269t339,939t330,952tTotal  
290,278tTotal  
325,551tTotal  
356,374tTotal  
341,675tSCOPE 2
SCOPE 1CARBON EMISSIONS PER MILLION SEK  
SALES (LOCAL CURRENCY – INCL. VAT)
2011 2013 2012 20142.02t  
/MSEK2.04t  
/MSEK2.05t  
/MSEK1.72t  
/MSEKCarbon efficiency  
improved by  
16% and total 
emissions  
decreased by 4%.below the expected 2°C rise. We are  
confident that we will achieve this 
by next year, given our planned 
investments in renewable electricity 
(s. 4.2). 
% OF RENEWABLES OF OUR TOTAL 
ELECTRICITY USE 
18%27%
2013 201474 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTFocus: Emissions from our own operations
While we are very excited about 
lighting our stores with electricity 
from renewable sources, we are also 
keenly aware that the best electricity 
is that which is never used. That’s 
why we keep working to increase the 
energy efficiency of all our stores – 
it helps us to save energy and reduce 
costs. One way is to continue rolling 
out real-time electricity meters in 
more of our stores (66%) for better 
on-site control and energy manage -
ment. Our target is to reduce elec -
tricity use per square metre in H&M 
(brand) stores by 20%, as compared 
to a 2007 baseline, by 2020. In 2014, 
we saw a small slowdown compared 
to the 14% improvement we achieved 
by 2013. Compared to the 2007 
baseline our reduction jumped back 
slightly to 12%. One explanation 
for this slowdown is the addition of 
some shopping experience enhance -
ments such as LED lighting accents 4.3 Reduce electricity use in 
H&M (brand) stores by 20% 
per sqm
DEADLINE STATUS
2020 more to doand video screens. We are nonethe -
less confident about our results 
and we are continuing our work to 
increase energy efficiency in our 
stores and to achieve our 2020 goal. More than 66%  
of our stores are now 
equipped with real-time 
electricity metres
2020
(Goal)-20%ELECTRICITY USE REDUCTION PER H&M 
(BRAND) STORE SQM COMPARED TO 2007 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
-8%
-10%
-14% -14%-12%
ENERGY USE IN GIGAJOULES 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Buildings diesel 16,262 20,469 5,215 403 3,586
District heating 54,149 81,475 61,894 67,901 68,208
Electricity 2,788,354 3,006,870 3,195,689 3,402,762 3,804,291
Buildings natural gas, oil and others 123,896 211,752 184,606 252,124 155,937
TOTAL  2,982,661 3,320,566 3,447,404 3,723,190 4,032,022
Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI G4 EN3 and EN5 on p. 112. 
Figures for 2013 have been restated due to a unit error in previous reporting. 75 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTFocus: Emissions along our value chain
Reducing our emissions is an impor -
tant contribution to the environment 
and an essential goal for us. But we 
are well aware that the biggest climate 
impacts happen along our value chain 
and outside of our operations. For 
example, 12% occurs in the production  
of raw materials like cotton, 36% results  
from fabric production and another 
26% when customers wash and care 
for their clothes. In most cases, we do  
not have any direct business relations  
at these stages. This makes it chal -
lenging to make the same demands 
on them as we do on ourselves or our 
first-tier suppliers. No matter what, 
we still want to do our utmost to lower 
climate impacts across all stages of 
our value chain.We are working with our suppliers,  
second-tier suppliers, transport pro -
viders and customers to help them 
reduce their climate impacts. At our 
manufacturing suppliers this involves 
contractual demands and incentives 
for energy efficiency improvements 
through a range of Cleaner Production  
programmes. We are also extending  
our influence over fabric mills by 
gradually mapping them and includ -
ing them in our supplier auditing pro -
gramme. In terms of raw materials,  
we can make a major difference already  
in the design phase by choosing the 
right materials. And finally, we try  
to inspire our customers to wash their 
clothes at lower temperatures (s. 1.9) 
and bring unwanted garments to our 
stores for reuse and recycling (s. 1.8). 26% 
of the carbon emissions 
in a garment’s life occur 
in the user phase
BREAKDOWN OF CLIMATE IMPACT ACROSS 
THE VALUE CHAIN %
Climate impacts are estimated H&M value chain 
footprints from Lifecycle Assesments (LCAs) conducted 
on behalf of H&M and are based on our total use 
of cotton, organic cotton, polyester and viscose in 
2011/2012. Deviation from 100% due to rounding 
effects.26%
Consumer use10%
Retail 36%
Fabric production
12%
Raw materials6%
Transport5%
Packaging6%
Garment
 production76 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMARTOur Conscious ActionsFocus: Emissions along our value chain
Transport is a key source for our 
scope 3 emissions. This is why all 
of our transport providers are now 
covered by applicable environmental 
initiatives. This was not the case for 
all partners last year so we remedied 
it. We followed up to ensure that all 
partners live up to our standards 
and we reviewed our verification 
systems to ensure compliance in the 
future. All of our road transport pro -
viders must now be SmartWay part -
ners (North America) or registered 
with WayAhead (Europe and Asia). 
Similarly, our sea freight partners 
need to register their environmental 
performance in the Clean Shipping 
Index for evaluation. 4.4 Ensure that 100% of 
transport service providers 
are either SmartWay partners 
(North America), WayAhead 
registered (Europe and Asia) 
or participating in the Clean 
Shipping Project
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on track
Please find an independent assurance statement 
related to GRI G4 EN17 on p. 112. 
Reported scope 3 emissions include energy use, 
goods transport and distribution, and business travel. For many years, we have been work -
ing to reduce climate impacts in dif -
ferent phases of the value chain. For 
example, choosing organic cotton  
means 46% less climate impact as 
compared to conventional cotton. 
Similarly, by involving our suppliers 
in cleaner production programmes 
including the Better Mills Initiative, 
PaCT and SAVE we contribute to 
improved energy efficiency, which 
again has led to GHG emissions 
reductions. We are currently apply -
ing what we learned from our various  
value chain initiatives to develop a 
reporting method. The method will 
include data from our use of more 
sustainable materials, our Garment 
Collecting initiative as well as both 
first-tier and second-tier suppliers 
to measure and report our emissions 
reductions in our value chain.NEW 4.5 Develop a method 
to report on value-chain 
greenhouse gas emission 
reductions
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on track
We believe a strong public stance  
on the issue of climate change is im  - 
portant. At the same time we want 
to be at the forefront of an important  
new movement within the sustain -
ability area: responsible corporate 
engagement in climate policy. In 2014,  
we committed to the guidelines 
developed by CDP, the UN Global 
Compact, Ceres, The Climate Group, 
WWF and the World Resources 
Institute in the “ Guide for Respon -
sible Corporate Engagement in 
Climate Policy ”. We will follow a 
programme to demonstrate best 
practice in policy engagement. These 
actions include setting up internal 
audits of all activities that we take 
part in that influence climate policy, 
ensuring consistency and communi -
cating on progress.NEW 4.6 Align with best 
practice in responsible 
corporate engagement in 
climate policy 
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track
CO2 e EMISSIONS IN TONNES (SCOPE 3)
2013 2012 2014229,669t279,010t324,794 tENERGY USE IN GIGAJOULES
2013 20143,714,264 GJ4,336,690 GJ77 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
We strive to reduce, reuse 
and recycle wherever we 
can: packaging, hangers 
and shopping bags, for example. But 
the really big question is what happens 
to clothes when consumers no longer 
want them. Many countries have great  
systems in place to, for example, donate  
clothes to charities. Still, too many 
clothes end up in landfills. According 
to a study conducted by WRAP, some 
31% of all textiles in the UK end up in 
the garbage. According to the Environ -
mental Protection Agency (EPA), 5%  
of landfills in the US consist of textiles. 
About 95% of these could be reused or 
recycled. So, we need to change some -
thing about the fact that resources are 
extracted on one end and wasted on 
the other. This opens up great oppor -
tunities. A new source for making new 
garments with low-impact materials, 
for example, while reducing waste and 
minimising the need for land, water, 
chemicals and more to make virgin 
raw materials. — COMMITMENT FIVE —
Reduce, reuse,  
recycle78 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
Performance overviewCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
For 2015, our target is to increase the number 
of pieces made with at least 20% recycled 
fabric from collected garments by more than 
300% compared to 2014.Recycled 
polyester  is often 
made of PET bottles .
And we used the 
equivalent of almost
40million 
bottles .Key performance 2014
You can find boxes like this 
at almost every H&M 
store  around the world.In 2014, we introduced the 
first pieces made with 20% 
recycled cotton  from 
such collected clothes. 
To increase this 
share without losing 
quality, we need more 
technological 
innovation . Here, we collect any clothes 
in any condition and from 
any brand to give them a 
new life . We will even give 
you a small reward .
From here, collected 
garments are sorted and 
reused or recycled . 
Nothing goes to landfill.We are working hard 
to overcome this challenge 
and we are investing 
in the innovation we 
need to create a closed 
loop  for fashion.
Our goal is to recycle 
as much as possible  
into new garments. TONNES OF GARMENTS COLLECTED  
FOR REUSE OR RECYCLING THROUGH OUR IN 
STORE GARMENT COLLECTING PROGRAMME
2013 20143,047t7,684t79 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEPROGRESS OVERVIEWDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – CLOSE THE LOOP ON TEXTILE FIBRES
5.1 Increase the amount of collected garments, set baseline and target moving forward 2014
5.2 NEW Make 300% more garments with recycled fabric from collected garments compared to 2014 2015
5.3 NEW Invest in closed-loop innovation year-to-year
FOCUS – WASTE
5.4 Recycle at least 95% of waste handled in our warehouses 2014
5.5 Increase the share of H&M stores that recycle the main types of store waste 2014
5.6 NEW Use recycled polyester equivalent to at least 60 million PET bottles 201580 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEFocus: Close the loop on textile fibres
We are on a mission to close the loop 
for textile fibres, turning old clothes 
into new creations. In the short term, 
this will help keep textiles from end -
ing up in landfills. In the long run, 
this can change the way fashion is 
made and massively reduce the need 
for extracting virgin resources from 
our planet. It will also give us direct 
access to environmentally conscious 
resources for our designs. To make sure  
that this happens, we need to make it 
easy and attractive for our customers 
to drop off any clothes they no longer 
want or need at our stores. Another 
challenge is that the yarn made from 
recycled natural fibres is currently not 
strong enough to make high-quality  
fabrics without being blended with 
virgin material. So, we need to help 
find innovations to overcome this 
challenge and also find new ways to 
recycle other kinds of materials, too.We teamed up with one of the world 
leaders in textile recycling, I:Collect 
(I:Co) to collect unwanted clothes in all 
our markets – from any brand and in 
any condition. We have placed easily 
accessible collection boxes in almost 
all H&M (brand) stores, rewarding 
contributers with discounts as thanks. 
All collected clothes are then reused or 
recycled. At the moment they are used, 
for example, as second hand clothes or 
recycled into your next cleaning cloth 
or into the first new yarn to make new 
clothes. Nothing goes to the landfill. 
We work with suppliers and other 
stakeholders to increasingly recycle 
collected garments that are not suitable 
for reuse and use these fibres to make 
new products. Currently we can blend 
in about 20% of these fibres without any 
loss of quality or longevity. To increase 
this share and enable large-scale 
production, we are creating demand for 
and investing directly in the required 
technical innovation. To this end, we 
are currently involved in a number of 
different initiatives and partnerships. 
>hm.com/longlivefashion
>ico-spirit.comCLOSING THE LOOP
Step one : Don’t let fashion go to waste.
Goal : Recycle no-longer-wanted 
clothes into new garments. 
1
DESIGN2
RAW 
MATERIALS3
FABRIC & YARN 
PRODUCTION4
GARMENT 
PRODUCTION5
TRANSPORT
6
SALES
7
USE81 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEInterview with Andrew Morlet, CEO, Ellen MacArthur Foundation
What does a closed loop mean to you?
A circular economy is an economic and 
industrial model that is regenerative by 
intent and design. Biological materials 
are cascaded before being returned 
into the biosphere where they restore 
natural capital; technical materials 
are maintained, upgraded, reused, 
remanufactured or refurbished, and 
ultimately their materials are recycled.
A circular model is closed loop when 
the products, components or materials 
are being re-purposed into either the 
same product or the same company. 
These models often lead to greater 
benefits as they help to incentivise 
higher value strategies. By contrast, 
in open loop models, materials are 
brought back into the market pool.
Why should companies think in terms 
of closed loops and circular economy?
Today’s economic model can be largely  
characterised as linear: we take 
resources, make products and eventu -
ally dispose of them. While this model 
has successfully supported the eco -
nomic development of industrialised  regions over the 20th century, it is  
not adapted to the conditions of the 
modern world. A number of trends  
are indicating a need for a change  
of paradigm, for example,
– Emerging countries are experiencing 
rapid development, leading to large 
increases in demand for resources; 
– New reserves of resources discovered  
today are often harder, and therefore 
more costly, to exploit;  – New forms of consumption and busi  - 
ness models are emerging in some 
markets. People show increasing inter -
est in getting access to goods rather 
than owning them;
– A number of technologies have  
been developed over the past few 
years and have been key enablers of 
these new business models but they 
will also make it possible to better 
track and maintain products of use 
and consumption.By leveraging the principles of a cir -
cular economy, businesses can reap 
various benefits, including reduced 
material input costs, access to new 
markets, improved customer relation -
ships and reduced risks of resource 
depletion. In addition, this model 
can help to create thriving, resilient 
economies in healthy environments 
with restored natural capital.
What are the biggest challenges 
on the way?
To implement a circular economy, action 
is needed in four key building blocks:
– Circular design and production, 
e.g. design for disassembly or for 
modularity;
– Innovative business models, e.g. per -
formance models or collection schemes;
– Reverse logistics and improved 
treatment methods, e.g. the repair 
or remarketing of products;
– Enabling system conditions, such 
as education, policy frameworks 
or collaboration platforms.“Today’s economic model can be largely  
characterised as linear: we take resources,  
make products and eventually dispose of them. 
While this model has successfully supported  
the economic development of industrialised 
regions over the 20th century, it is not adapted 
to the conditions of the modern world”.  
Andrew Morlet, CEO, Ellen MacArthur FoundationFocus: Close the loop on textile fibres82 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
“H&M’s garment collecting initiative 
leverages a number of principles of  
the circular economy”.  
Andrew Morlet, CEO, Ellen MacArthur FoundationHow do you see H&M’s work progressing  
in this area?
H&M’s garment collecting initiative leverages a 
number of principles of circular economy. It relies 
on an incentivised collection scheme where reverse 
logistics are optimised by using the same trucks as 
for deliveries. Post-collection approaches leverage 
the higher value of short cycles: rewearing is pre -
ferred to cascading into other applications, which 
in turn is prioritised over recycling and, only as a 
last resort are materials used for energy recovery. 
Interestingly, H&M invests part of the profit from 
this model in recycling innovation, therefore ensur -
ing continuous improvement. H&M is also an active 
member of the Circular Economy 100 network, where  
they work in collaboration with other leading com -
panies to create effective market conditions for the 
recovery of textiles. 
What would you like to see from H&M  
in the future?
H&M could build on its experience with circular 
models and explore additional opportunities by 
re thinking the design of its own products. For exam  - 
ple, more durable clothing would enable more cycles  
of rewear; garments designed for disassembly could 
enable the reuse of certain parts in new clothing or 
the separate treatment of different materials. H&M 
has started its experimentation in business models with a collection scheme. A next step 
could be to explore other approaches. 
For example, an online clothing rental 
model would help to optimise the use 
of the products while ensuring their 
recovery. By closing the loop in such  
a way, H&M can capture the benefits 
of improvements on the design and 
the recovery methods, which would  
in turn enable the company to scale 
up this model. H&M’s supply chains 
will be instrumental in the success 
of these innovations. We would be 
very interested in seeing H&M explore 
collaboration opportunities, economic 
models and incentives enabling a 
shift away from a focus on volumes 
and throughput to a more systemic 
perspective. Focus: Close the loop on textile fibres83 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEFocus: Close the loop on textile fibres
Our customers can drop off any
clothes they no longer want or need
at almost all* H&M (brand stores)
around the globe – probably the
world’s biggest retail garment col -
lecting system. During 2013, the
first year of our garment collecting
initiative, we gathered 3,047 tonnes
of garments to give them a new life.
In 2014, we more than doubled
that amount with 7,684 tonnes.
In parallel, we could see in customer
surveys that the awareness of this
programme increased significantly
amongst H&M customers from 2013
to 2014. This tells us how much we 
can achieve by banding together
with our customers and making  It’s an important step to keep textiles 
from ending up in landfills. But we 
want to do more. We want to turn 
unwanted clothes into an innovative  
resource for new, fresh quality pieces.  
In short: we want to create a closed 
loop in fashion. In early 2014, we 
took the first big steps in this mission 
and made the first products with 
at least 20% recycled material from 
collected garments. Since then we 
have launched increasingly more 
products containing 20% recycled 
cotton across our entire range. There 
are a number of challenges on the 
way to increase these figures even 
further, for example, import barriers 
for used clothes in major production 
markets such as Turkey or China, 
as well as technological challenges 
that currently do not allow for more 
than 20% of recycled cotton without 
quality loss. That said, we are invest -
ing in technology to overcome this *For franchise markets, our minimum 
requirement is to include at least one 
store per country and for newly entered 
markets, the system should be up and run -
ning 6 months after the first store opening 
at the latest.5.1 Increase the amount
of collected garments, set
baseline and target moving
forwardNEW 5.2 Make 300% more 
garments with recycled fabric 
from collected garments 
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 doneDEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackit easy to not let textiles go to waste.
Given this steady growth and great
reception from our customers, we are 
now setting a new target for the years 
ahead.challenge. For 2015, our target is to 
increase the number of pieces made 
with at least 20% recycled fabric  
from collected garments by more 
than 300% (compared to 2014) to 1.2 
million pieces. 
 TONNES OF GARMENTS COLLECTED
2013 2012 20143,047t
232t*7,684tWe collected over 
7,600 tonnes  of old garments 
for reuse and recycling – that’s 
as much fabric as in about 
38 million t-shirts
*From initial pilot projects. Please find an independent 
assurance statement related to GRI G4 EN1 here (p. 112).
84 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEFocus: Close the loop on textile fibres
There are certainly challenges on the 
road towards a closed loop for textiles. 
For example, the fact that we currently 
cannot make products with more than 
20% recycled fabric from collected 
garments without a loss in quality 
and durability. Or that polyester 
fibres can’t yet be recycled into new 
garments without running into dye -
ing problems. By creating demand 
for solutions and actively working 
with innovators and scientists, how  - 
ever, we are positive that we can NEW 5.3 Invest in closed-loop  
innovation
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done
By creating demand for solutions 
and actively working with innovators 
and scientists, we are positive that 
we can overcome the challenges on 
the way towards a closed loop.overcome these challenges. We are 
currently involved in a number of 
different promising initiatives and 
projects. For example, together with 
Kering, we entered into a partnership 
with UK-based innovation company 
Worn Again, which is developing 
promising technologies for textile-
to-textile recycling.85 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEFocus: Waste
Like any other organisation, we gener -
ate waste such as cardboard, paper and  
plastic, something we want to avoid 
wherever possible in our stores, offices  
and warehouses. This helps save money  
and natural resources. For waste that 
cannot be avoided, we need to make 
sure we reuse and recycle as much as 
possible. On the flipside, we also have 
a great opportunity to help reduce 
waste impacts way beyond our opera -
tions, for example, by using waste as 
a resource for new, high-quality prod -
ucts and by making it easier for our 
customers to reduce and recycle waste 
on their end.Our aim is to send as little waste to 
landfills as possible. We follow the 
European waste hierarchy. We are 
focusing on our warehouses where 
most of our operational waste is han -
dled. We are currently implementing 
recycling systems in our stores. We are 
also using cut remnants and post-con -
sumer waste to make new shopping 
bags and new clothes. Through our 
garment collecting initiative, we give 
our customers a convenient means to 
dispose of used clothes and give them 
a new life (s. 5.1) rather than throwing 
them in the garbage.
>hm.com/waste
>ec.europa.eu/wasteframework
86 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLEFocus: Waste
The majority of the waste that we 
generate is handled in our ware -
houses. In 2014, this was around 
32,000t (2013: 35,000t), mainly 
cardboard (65%), paper (10%) and  
plastic (7%). Our goal for 2014  
was to recycle 95% of this waste. While much of the waste generated 
in our stores is sent to our ware -
houses and recycled from there, we 
want to make sure that the remaining  
waste is also handled in the best 
possible way. We are focusing on our 
largest brand’s stores, H&M, and the 
most common types of waste, namely  
cardboard, plastic and paper. Much 
depends on existing recycling systems  
in the community or the building 
where we rent space, for example. 
While these can pose serious chal -
lenges locally, over the last year we 
further increased the share of stores 
that have recycling systems for these 
waste types in place to 58%* (2013: 
56%). Our aim is to further increase 
this share and ultimately reach 100%.5.4 Recycle at least 95% of 
waste handled in our ware -
houses5.5 Increase the share of 
H&M stores that recycle the 
main types of store waste
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 more to doDEADLINE STATUS
2014 done
*Extrapolation based on data available for 
93% (2013: 90%) of H&M (brand) stores.We reached 91% (2013: 92%) which 
means that we did not meet our goal. 
This is mainly due to the fact that 
we entered new markets with less 
developed waste management and 
recycling systems. We will continue 
to work towards this goal from a 
comparably high level during 2015.
 In our collections, we use a range of 
recycled materials, such as recycled 
cotton, wool and polyester. Recycled 
materials in particular have two 
major benefits – they reduce the 
need for extracting virgin resources 
and less waste ends up in landfills. 
Recycled polyester, for example, does 
not need any of our world’s limited 
oil resources, but instead is usually 
made from PET bottles that might 
otherwise have ended up in landfills. 
In 2014, we used recycled polyester 
equivalent to nearly 40 million PET 
bottles (2013: 9.5 million, 2012: 7.9 
million). Even though this is a con -
siderable amount, recycled material 
still has a lot more potential and 
currently represents 0.2%, of our 
total material use, a figure that we 
expect to increase as we move closer 
to a closed loop for textiles in the 
coming years. So, drop your PET 
bottles at your nearest recycling NEW 5.6 Use recycled poly -
ester equivalent to at least 
60 million PET bottles
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackstation and we might bring them 
back as new, fresh fashion!
>hm.com/carrierbagsWe used recycled 
polyester equivalent 
to almost  40 million  
PET bottles
NO. OF PET BOTTLES EQUIVALENT  
TO RECYCLED POLYESTER USE IN  
MILLION BOTTLES
2011 2012 2013 20147.939.7
9.5 9.2
Since 2014, we  haveimproved our data management 
method and  have received more accurate data, which 
is part of the massive increase compared to previous 
years. Thus 2014 data is not fully comparable to the 
previous year’s data, though more accurate than before.87 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our planet is facing scarcity  
issues on many fronts. Accord -
ing to the UN, the world will  
need 50% more food, 45% more energy 
and 30% more water by 2030. Water 
in particular plays a critical role in the 
textile industry – from growing cot -
ton to washing our clothes at home. 
So using resources efficiently makes 
long-term business sense and will 
increasingly provide opportunities  
for competitive advantage. To operate  
as a sustainable business, we are 
committed to conserving water, soil, 
air and species. But more than that, 
we want to help ensure that resources 
are being shared fairly between their 
different users and that we consider 
the needs of both present and future 
generations.
 — COMMITMENT SIX —
Use natural resources  
responsibly88 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
Performance overviewCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
On average our Conscious Denim collection 
used 56% less water and 58% less energy  
than comparable denim.Key performance 2014
This denim is sold for 
EUR 39.99/GBP 29.99 .
It’s been made with 20% 
recycled cotton . This cotton 
is generated from consumer 
waste , maybe even those 
garments that you dropped 
off at an H&M store.Making recycled cotton 
requires zero water, 
fertilisers or chemicals  
and even fewer carbon 
emissions  than growing 
new cotton. 
Creating the slightly washed-
out look  could have required 
a lot of water, but innovative 
technologies meant that 
it needed 50% less water  
than average denim.% OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN FULL 
COMPLIANCE WITH OUR WASTEWATER 
QUALITY REQUIREMENTS
2011 2012 2013 2014
Included are all supplier factories with wet processes 
and own waste water treatment plants. Excluded are 
factories using shared treatment plants.
  LITRES USED PER KG OF CLOTHING  
(MANUFACTURING SUPPLIER WATER 
EFFICIENCY)
71.8%73.2%72%
41%57%65%71%
18.1% 17.8% 17%
10.1% 9% 10%
Based on data submitted by 450 supplier factories.2013 2012 2014LESS THAN 100 LITRES PER KG
100–200 LITRES PER KG
MORE THAN 200 LITRES PER KG89 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYPROGRESS REPORTDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – WATER STEWARDSHIP 
6.1 Install water-efficient equipment across our own operations 2020
6.2 Ensure appropriate wastewater treatment for all supplier factories with wet processes 2015
6.3 Reduce water use and withdrawal at all supplier factories with wet processes 2015
6.4 Reduce water use in washing processes of denim and other water-intense product types year-to-year
6.5 Extend water impact reductions in raw material and fabric production 2015
6.6 Raise awareness on water issues amongst colleagues and suppliers year-to-year
6.7 Develop water engagement plans for the Yangtze (China) and Brahmaputra (Bangladesh) river basins 2014
FOCUS – CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
6.8 Help to lead our industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals 2020
6.9 NEW Develop new method to ensure data disclosure for all strategic suppliers 2016
6.10 NEW Develop improved chemical management practices for our suppliers  2017
6.11 NEW Drive industry developments and collaboration year-to-year90 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYPIONEERING 
WATER 
STEW ARDSHIP 
FOR F ASHIONGrowing cotton, dyeing fabrics, creat -
ing washed-out looks and not least 
washing our clothes at home all has 
an impact on water resources. At the  
same time, the World Economic Forum  
has just ranked water scarcity as 
the biggest global risk. Operating 
in a water-intense industry, we have 
a keen interest and responsibility to 
not only reduce water impacts across 
our value chain, but also to help the 
communities along our value chain  
to ensure that clean water is available 
to all those who need it. Therefore,  
we have set our sights on becoming 
the fashion industry’s leading water 
steward. We are working for respon -
sible management of the water 
resources on which our supply chain 
depends and through this helping 
others that rely on water to meet their 
needs. What’s most important is what 
we, together with our peers, do to 
ensure that water is used responsibly 
throughout the value chain. In line 
with our commitment to use natural  
resources responsibly, we have teamed  
up with a number of organisations, 
such as the WWF and Solidaridad, 
to set new standards in the fashion 
industry. Our lifecycle assessments show that 
the most significant water footprint in 
our value chain occurs in raw material 
production (87%). It is mainly because 
cotton production is highly water 
intense. That is why our goal is to use 
cotton solely from more sustainable 
sources by 2020 at the latest (s. 1.2).
The third biggest footprint is from 
wet processing in fabric production 
and garment finishing. Here, we are 
targeting supplier factories with in-
house wet processes. Our main focus 
is on the river basins of the Yangtze 
(China) and the Brahmaputra (Bang -
ladesh) where many of our suppliers 
are located. Here, we are also engag -
ing stakeholders and decision makers 
to achieve further change beyond the 
factory walls. 
Responsible water management is 
vital for the future of communities, 
the environment and a sustainable 
business. More specifically, water is 
essential for biodiversity – a central 
tenet of the WWF. Together, we have 
developed a holistic strategy for water 
stewardship. This collaboration is the 
first of its kind in the fashion industry 
to engage companies, decision- and Focus: Water stewardship
WATER STRATEGY
H&M’s water stewardship 
strategy has been developed 
in line with WWF’s Water 
Stewardship steps.
WATER 
AWARENESS
KNOWLEDGE OF 
IMPACT
INTERNAL ACTION
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
INFLUENCE 
GOVERNANCE91 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Water stewardship
policy makers to act together on water 
issues. We are combining the WWF’s 
expertise on global water issues with 
our own experience of over a decade of 
supply chain water management in a 
unique partnership. The corner  stones 
of our water stewardship strategy  
include increasing awareness (within 
the company, supplier factories and 
amongst our customers), analysing our  
water impact in detail and doing what 
is necessary to reduce it. We are con -
stantly raising the bar of our require -
ments and improving data quality, 
which poses challenges in presenting 
performance data, but is needed to 
create progress on the ground.
Besides further strengthening data 
measurements and management, 
we are additionally further increas -
ing transparency of wastewater data 
amongst our suppliers and across 
our industry.
>hm.com/water
>wwf.panda.org
92 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYWhat are the biggest challenges when it comes 
to water impacts in the fashion industry?
Water challenges are unfortunately a big part of the 
fashion industry. The issues are numerous and rel -
evant in the entire supply chain. For cotton cultiva -
tion, water scarcity, pesticides and synthetic fertilisers  
are amongst the key issues. Excessive use and pollu -
tion of water in textile wet processing is another 
important one. These issues can have a big negative 
impact for the communities in production countries 
that rely on cotton and textiles. Access to drinking 
water, agriculture and food safety is at stake.  
These costs to the environment are often not fac -
tored into the prices. Governments in cotton and  also needs to ensure that sustainability 
precautions and good practices are fac -
tored into product development, design 
and sourcing and that progress moni -
toring becomes part of the system. 
And how do you see H&M’s role and 
performance in tackling these?
H&M has realised and is working 
actively with water as a key challenge 
in the sector and has developed a 
water strategy. Solidaridad and H&M 
have a strategic partnership covering 
various issues throughout the supply Interview with Janet Mensink, Programme Coordinator, Solidaridad
textile producing regions are often 
weak, which makes it even more com   - 
plex to ensure that all necessary 
precautions, like good agricultural 
practices and effluent treatment, are 
addressed properly. What is sometimes 
forgotten is the role of the consumer. 
Not only through washing do we add to 
the environmental impact, but over -
consumption and the fact that clothing 
is more and more treated as a dispos -
able item add to the problems in the 
production of clothing. 
 
How do you think the industry should 
address and overcome these chal -
lenges?
The fashion industry has production  
in countries where the environmental  
management in general and water 
management specifically are not yet 
well developed – while many of the tex -
tile regions are confronted with water 
scarcity and high pollution levels. This 
means that the private sector needs to 
take responsibility to put these chal -
lenges on the agenda and to work with 
suppliers on raising awareness and 
identification of improvements. But 
perhaps more importantly, the industry chain. Water is a central element in 
our partnership. On the cotton front 
this includes the Better Cotton Initia -
tive, where water conservation is one 
of the six principles. In our cleaner 
production programmes in China and 
Bangladesh we see that H&M benefits 
from their well-established supply 
chain relations. In comparison to a 
number of other brands, H&M is pro -
gressing in engaging its suppliers in 
sustainability programmes. We’d like 
to see H&M keep the leadership posi -
tion by scaling up these programmes 
to the total supply base.
“H&M has realised and is working acti -
vely with water as a key challenge in 
the sector and has developed a water 
strategy. Solidaridad and H&M have a 
strategic partnership covering various 
issues throughout the supply chain”.  
Janet Mensink, Programme Coordinator, SolidaridadFocus: Water stewardship93 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Water stewardship
Looking at our entire value chain, 
our stores, warehouses and offices 
have a rather small water impact. 
Still, we want to act as a good exam -
ple by reducing our water use as 
much as possible. And of course 
this also helps us reduce some costs 
in the long run. So by 2020 at the 
latest, we aim to have water-efficient 
equipment such as low-flow taps in 
all of our stores, warehouses and 
offices. By 2014, 24% of our facilities  
had water-efficient eqipment in place  
(2013: 19%). Our warehouses in Ham  - 
burg, Ghlin, Pozan and Madrid as 
well as a number of stores in the UK 
have additional rainwater harvesting 
facilities in place. In total, our facili -
ties harvested roughly 12.3 million 
litres of rainwater in 2014. This is 
an increase of 1.3 million litres com -
pared to 2013.6.1 Install water-efficient 
equipment across our own 
operations
DEADLINE STATUS
2020 on track
% OF STORES, OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES 
WITH WATER-EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT
2013 201419%24% LITRES OF RAINWATER HARVESTED  
IN OWN OPERATIONS
12,325,000 
10,994,000*
3,005,000 
2013 2012 2014
2020
(Goal)
100% TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWALS FOR  
H&M’S OWN OPERATIONS
2,011,000 m3
1,463,000 m31,521,779 m3 
2013 2012 2014We re-stated 2013 figures as a result of improved data 
quality and in order to ensure comparability to 2014 figures.
94 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Water stewardship
All of our approximately 500 supplier  
factories with wet processes are 
required to treat their wastewater, 
either by having their own treatment 
plant or by using shared treatment 
plants. Factories with their own 
effluent treatment plants (ETP) are 
monitored against globally defined 
quality levels. 
These standards follow at least legal 
requirements, but in most cases they 
go beyond. Currently, we apply the 
Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR) Water Group’s water quality 
definitions. Through our partnership 
with the WWF, we have developed a 
number of new routines and working 
structures, for example, for data veri -
fication and testing through external 
laboratories. With our new routines 
we have seen some improvements and 
so far we have reached a compliance 
level of 71%. 6.2 Ensure appropriate waste-  
water treatment for all supplier 
factories with wet processes
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackTo keep improving the compliance 
level, we focus on individual factory 
action plans and together we assess 
the plants and systems including ETP 
technology, operational controls and 
operators’ competence. We also apply 
strict business consequences for 
repeated compliance failure. In the 
worst case, this means termination  
of the business relationship following 
our responsible phase-out routines  
(s. p31). In parallel, we keep increasing  
our alignment with other brands 
in shared factories and work with 
authorities to improve legal require -
ments where needed.
A specific example is a case from 
Bang  ladesh. The country is facing 
significant water challenges since  
the regulatory framework requires 
further improvements and waste -
water treatment is still not common. 
Still, we require that all supplier 
factories as well as subcontracted  
factories have proper ETPs in place. 
As a consequence of our requirements,  
we have seen positive developments 
with suppliers investing over EUR  
30 million into 65 new ETPs and  
the upgrading of existing ones.2011 2012 2013 201457%65%71%
41%
Included are all supplier factories with wet processes 
and own wastewater treatment plants. Excluded are 
factories using shared treatment plants.  TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE  
BY DESTINATION 2014
3% 
Yangtze9% 
BrahmaputraTOTAL 
119, 755, 714 M3
% OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN FULL 
COMPLIANCE WITH WASTEWATER QUALITY 
REQUIREMENTS (BSR) 
© Michel Gunther/WWF-Canon95 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY9%
5%7% 7%Focus: Water stewardship
The way our supplier factories impact 
their local water resources also 
depends on water availability and how  
much water they withdraw. We aim  
to reduce the water impact of all of 
our supplier factories with wet pro -
cesses from a holistic perspective.  
The goal is that all of these roughly 
500 factories must have improved 
water management systems, for exam -
ple water usage measurement tools, in 
place by 2015. Furthermore, we want 
these factories to set annual targets 
for reduced water withdrawals and 
increased water recycling rates, etc.
We are focusing specifically on sup  - 
pliers in water-scarce areas on the 
Yangtze and Brahmaputra river 
deltas, which are the two single most 
significant water sources for our wet-  
process suppliers. To support them, 
we provide training (s. 6.6) and have 
included additional water manage -6.3 Reduce water use and 
withdrawal at all supplier 
factories with wet processes
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackment criteria in our new supplier per  - 
formance assessments (s. 2.6). This 
way, we can help suppliers identify 
prioritised improvement areas – and 
we can provide them with incentives  
for good performance, such as cost 
efficiencies and business commit -
ments. In 2015, we aim to set base -
lines and targets based on the data 
we collect through our new supplier 
assessment method. Specifically we 
will work to strengthen water recy -
cling, an area in which we have seen 
a slight decrease in performance this 
year. 
 AVERAGE YEARLY WATER WITHDRAWAL 
PER FACTORY IN WATER STRESSED AREAS 
(H&M PRODUCTION)
2013 2014130,000 m3
105,000 m3 %/LITRES OF USED WATER  
THAT IS RECYCLED
2013 2013 2014 2014Y ANGTZE REGION
BRAHMPUTRA REGION1%WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE IN SUPPLIER 
FACTORIES LOCATED IN BRAHMAPUTRA, 
BANGLADESH AND YANGTZE, CHINA
2013 2014
Brahmaputra2014
YangtzeOTHER
RIVER WA TERGROUND WA TER
MUNICIPAL WA TER
1% 1%57%36%5%
1%
201352%10%36%2%
98% 99%LITRES USED PER KG OF CLOTHING  
(MANUFACTURING SUPPLIER WATER 
EFFICIENCY)
71.8% 73.2% 72%
18.1% 17.8% 17%
10.1%9%10%
Based on data submitted by 450 supplier factories.2013 2012 2014LESS THAN 100 LITRES PER KG
100–200 LITRES PER KG
MORE THAN 200 LITRES PER KG96 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Water stewardship
Producing denim requires significant  
amounts of water. And in order to 
reduce water use, we focus on inno -
vative production methods without 
compromising our customers’ needs. 
In 2014, we introduced our first 
Conscious Denim collection. Like all 
of our Conscious Collections each 
style was made with at least 50% 
more sustainable materials. In addi -
tion, we also looked into continued 
production. All the washes used in 
the collection, required both less 
water and energy. The water reduc -
tion alone was 56% compared to 
conventional denim collections.
These results are largely thanks to 
Jeanologia, a Spanish consultancy 
and experts on denim washes. We 
used their Environmental Impact 
Measurement tool (EIM) to rate the  
washing process impacts. The ratings 6.4 Reduce water use in 
washing processes of denim 
and other water-intense 
product types
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year doneare divided into three categories  
– green, yellow and red. 
To meet our Conscious Denim stan -
dards, the washing processes must 
achieve green scores. This guarantees  
that a maximum of 35 litres of water 
per garment is used during the wash  - 
ing. We are working to increase the 
use of this tool among our denim 
suppliers, while maintaining the 
fashion value of the products. In 2014,  
76% of our denim orders were scored 
using the EIM tool and over one third  
reached the green level. For 2015, we 
aim to use the tool to score all of our 
denim orders to be scored against 
this tool.
Already by 2014, more than one 
third of all our denim products had 
reached the highest “green level”  
in Jeanologia’s EIM tool. 
We scored  76% 
of our denim orders using  
Jeanologia’s Environmental Impact 
Measuremment tool
Producing raw materials and making  
fabrics can have significant water 
impacts. That’s why we want to make  
the best possible fabric choices and  
help cotton farmers and fabric mills  
in particular to reduce their water 
impacts. And of course make water 
conscious fabric choices right from 
the start when designing our prod -
ucts. 
One way to do this is to choose recy  - 
cled materials. This year, we launched  
our first closed-loop denim collection  6.5 Extend water impact 
reductions in raw material 
and fabric production
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackusing 20% recycled cotton from 
collected clothes. We estimate that 
each such denim saves up to 1,000 
litres of water compared to using 
only conventional virgin cotton. 
During 2014, we also took impor -
tant steps in including fabric mills 
involved in making about 35% of our 
products into our supplier assess  - 
ment systems (s. 2.9). This is par -
ticularly relevant in the sense that  
these will be immediately enrolled 
into our new assessment method 
during 2015, which include improved  
water impact measurement tools  
(s. 2.6).
Additionally, we have expanded a 
set of programmes that aim to help 
fabric producers in particular to 
improve their environmental foot -
prints, such as the Partnership for 
Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) in Bangla -
desh and the Better Mill Initiative 
in China. Together with Solidaridad 
and the Natural Resources Defense 
Council (NRDC), we aim to improve 
the production efficiency of more 
than 30 printing and dyeing mills  
in China over a three-year period.  So far the results show that partici -
pating mills have increased profits 
due to reductions in energy, water 
usage and saved time and materials.
When it comes to raw materials, it 
is mainly through the Better Cotton 
Initiative that we are helping cotton 
farmers to grow cotton with less water  
impacts (s. 7.3).
We will continue to extend these 
efforts and improve our tools for 
measuring impacts and reduction 
opportunities.97 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Water stewardship
The Yangtze and Brahmaputra river 
basins are the two most important 
water sources for our supplier facto -
ries with wet processes. This means 
we are especially focused on indus -
try engagement reaching beyond the  
factory lines of individual com panies  
in order to drive holistic improve -
ments. Together with the WWF we  
have developed and rolled out dedi -
cated engagement plans. 
In China, we have developed a 
detailed method for engagement 
with the industry, policy makers  
and communities. We are currently 
running a pilot project and our 
ultimate goal is to implement our 
method across several industrial 
parks in the Yangtze to strengthen 
shared water risks and water plan -
ning. We also support the WWF’s 
conservation project to protect and 6.7 Develop water engagement  
plans for the Yangtze (China) 
and Brahmaputra (Bangladesh)  
river basins
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 donesustain the Yangtze finless porpoise 
and contribute to positive develop -
ments for the river eco-systems.
In Bangladesh we are conducting a 
gap analysis on water management 
legislation. We are also doing an 
economic risk analysis of how cur -
rent business practices and water 77%
of our colleagues in our
production offices have been 
trained on water issues
We have found that general aware -
ness about water issues is rather low 
compared to, for example, climate 
change. Since water is a significant 
resource when making fashion, we 
want to emphasise the importance 
of water together with our efforts 
to tackle the world’s growing water 
challenges. Through different 
initiatives, we hope to raise aware -
ness amongst all of our colleagues, 
suppliers and customers. Specifi -
cally we have rolled out mandatory 
e-learning sessions for employees 
that emphasise water issues and 
solutions. So far more than 43,000 
colleagues (33%) have taken our 
introductory e-learning and more 
than 5,800 have taken our more 
advanced learning programme. We 
also have specific water and techni -
cal training for our colleagues in our 
production countries. Some 77% of 
these colleagues have been trained. 6.6 Raise awareness on water 
issues amongst colleagues 
and suppliers
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on trackThis year we also rolled out a techni -
cal training programme for all of our 
suppliers with wet processes such as 
dyeing and washing. Until now, 457 
factories (89%) have been trained in 
three different areas: general water 
awareness, our water requirements, 
technical water testing and techni -
cal training on ETP functionality. 
We continuously strive to inform our 
customers about the importance of 
water in textile production. Through 
for example our Conscious Denim 
collection (s. 1.5) we are demonstrat -
ing our efforts to reduce water and 
energy usage. With the Clevercare 
label (s. 1.9), we are focusing on water  
and energy reductions after the gar  - 
ments leave our stores. The label 
encourages customers to take care 
of their garments in more conscious 
ways and as of 2014 all of our garments  
have the Clevercare label included  
in the washing instructions.impacts affect long-term growth 
and production. The purpose of 
our research is to form a powerful 
foundation for better water manage -
ment in Bangladesh. In 2015, we 
are continuing to collaborate with 
other partners in Bangladesh to 
strengthen local and national plat -
forms for water engagement. 98 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYChemicals are essential in many 
things that we use in our everyday 
lives, as well as in the clothes that 
we wear. Our task is to uphold the 
strictest stand  ards for handling 
chemicals and eradicate any hazard -
ous chemicals going into our supply 
chain. We, of course, want to ensure 
that our products are free from any 
harmful substances. And beyond 
just looking at our own products, 
it is equally important to ensure 
safe working conditions for the 
people making our products and 
to protect the environment.We follow the precautionary principle to avoid any 
harmful chemicals going into our supply chain. This 
means that we ban substances even if they are not 
legislated or if there is any indication of scientific 
uncertainties. Our focus is on preventing restricted 
substance use at our suppliers as well as their fabric 
suppliers. In late 2014, we introduced a new strategy 
and chemical roadmap to further improve our work. 
Internally, we have strengthened our organisation and  
coordination between departments. An important 
focus area is to strengthen our chemical inventory 
requirements in order to help improve our suppli -
ers’ purchasing systems. This way we can increase 
control of the chemicals that are used by our suppli -
ers when making our products. Thus we avoid the use 
and discharge of hazardous substances and control 
the chemicals that are used for dyeing, printing and 
washing processes.
We continuously review and update our chemical 
restrictions including our Manufacturing Restricted 
Substances List (MRSL) and Restricted Substance 
List (RSL). Based on risk assessments for each indi -
vidual product order, we perform regular tests – most 
of them in third-party laboratories. Additionally, 
we conduct specific chemical audits, for example by 
checking what is referred to as the Safety Data Sheet 
(SDS). We have ongoing training on our chemical 
restrictions and management, with additional focus 
on factories with chemical-intense processes, such as 
dyeing and printing too. We have integrated our work Focus: Chemical management
towards Zero Discharge of Hazardous 
Chemicals (ZDHC) into our new strat -
egy. Furthermore, we have enhanced 
our stakeholder engagement including  both industry and governments to 
further advance chemical management 
and transparency and even actively 
promote stricter legislation. 
99 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Chemical management
As part of the ZDHC group we are 
working actively to implement the 
joint roadmap with milestones to 
secure a cleaner environment with 
increased accountability and lead 
our industry to zero discharge of 
hazardous chemicals by 2020. This 
year, a research list was developed 
to allow safer alternatives for 10 
chemical substances with specific 
CAS numbers to be prioritised for 
research and development in the 
coming years. Another achievement  
was the MoU that was signed between  
the Sustainability Apparel Coalition  
(SAC) and the ZDHC group to further  
align a chemical management module  
and ZDHC audit protocol. In our 
supply chain, we have been leading 
and conducting a ZDHC Chemical 
Management Training programme 
in China, Bangladesh, Vietnam and 
India to improve suppliers’ knowledge  
of chemical management. Since the 6.8 Help to lead our industry 
towards zero discharge of 
hazardous chemicals 
DEADLINE STATUS
2020 on tracklaunch in 2011, the ZDHC group has 
grown steadily. We started out by 
teaming up with five other brands. 
Today there are 18 brands in the 
group.
>roadmaptozero.com
So far, we have been using the Insti -
tute of Public and Environment 
Affairs (IPE) for data disclosure for 
roughly 47 strategic suppliers in 
Bangladesh, China, India, Cambo -
dia and Indonesia. Now, we have 
started to look into and develop new  
solutions to provide all suppliers 
with the best possible disclosure 
mechanism. Through extensive 
research we found that the Pollution 
Release Transfer Register (PRTR) 
is an effective method to prevent 
intentional use of hazardous chemi -
cals in the manufacturing process. 
Inspired by the PRTR methodology, 
we are currently working on imple -
menting a similar method together 
with Bureau Veritas, a global leader 
in Testing, Inspection and Certifi -
cation (TIC). During 2015, we will 
get the first results of this pilot 
project. Based on our results, we 
will continue our work with the aim NEW 6.9  Develop new method  
to ensure data disclosure for 
all strategic suppliers 
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on trackto implement this new disclosure 
methodology for our suppliers.
>ipe.org.cn
>bureauveritas.com
100 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYFocus: Chemical management
We keep testing our products through  
our chemical restrictions that are 
among the strictest in the industry 
and here we follow the precaution -
ary principle. In 2014, we conducted 
30,000 tests to ensure compliance 
with our chemical restrictions. We 
review and update our restrictions 
lists at least once a year. 
We are also putting more and more 
focus on the actual chemical input  
in the production processes. In 2013,  
we introduced our positive lists to  
help our suppliers choose the chemi  - 
cal products that comply with our 
restrictions. We started with positive 
lists from three chemical producers 
and this year we included another 
three producers: BASF, Zhejiang 
Longsheng Group and Transfar 
Chemicals Co. We will keep increas -
ing the number of positive lists to 
help the industry move towards During 2014, we increased collabo -
rative efforts on both the technical  
and policy levels. This allowed 
improved discussions with key influ -
encers such as the ZDHC CNTAC 
conference in China and the ZDHC 
Hazardous Chemical Management 
Conference in Bangladesh. We are 
currently working to set up an Asian 
chemical stakeholder panel to drive 
discussion on chemical substitutions  
and eliminations.NEW 6.10 Develop improved 
chemical management prac -
tices for our suppliersNEW 6.11 Drive industry 
developments and collabora -
tion
DEADLINE STATUS
2017 on trackDEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year on trackbetter substitutions. We also ensure 
awareness of the Manufacturing 
Restricted Substances List (MRSL) 
requirements and in 2015 we are 
extending MRSL training to also 
include our tier 2 suppliers.
Our new chemical management 
strategy, Best Chemical Management 
Practice (BCMP), aims to drive better  
purchasing practices to control the 
chemical input and ensure trace -
ability in the production cycle. This 
will also include a new systematic 
method to monitor the chemicals that 
are used and discharged in produc -
tion units. In this way, we can phase 
out hazardous chemicals and find 
substitute for them. During 2015, we 
will test this method in our first-tier 
suppliers as part of our new supplier 
assessment programme. The aim is 
to have the method in place by 2017.
101 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
The way we do business, our 
values and our growth affect 
millions around the world. With 
this in mind, we believe it is essential 
to contribute to the communities along 
our value chain, from raw material to 
our stores. It is important to us that we 
drive lasting change and ensure that 
these communities benefit from having 
us there. We work to create positive 
impact through the way we do business 
in our own operations and across our 
value chain. Our strategic investments 
and partnerships help us to extend 
these impacts. We want to create shared 
value for us as a company, our custom -
ers and local communities. In addition, 
we believe it is vital to both commu -
nicate with and engage our customers 
and colleagues on community issues. 
We do so, for instance, through specially 
designed collections, additional in-store 
campaigns and garment donations. 
Additionally, the H&M Conscious 
Foundation, an independent non-profit 
global foundation, is driving long-last -
ing change for people and communities 
beyond the value chain of H&M.
>hm.com/communities
>hm.com/consciousfoundation — COMMITMENT SEVEN —
Strengthen  
communities102 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
Key performance 2014
This is Shathi , 
26 years old, from Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
Together with WaterAid, the 
H&M Conscious Foundation 
wanted to change this and 
invested about EUR 4 
million /USD 5.7 million .
Within 3 years, this will help 
Shathi and an estimated 
4 million people  in Dhaka 
to have access to safe drinking 
water and toilets. She lives in Shattola Basti, 
a part of the city where access 
to sanitation is limited .
The money was generated 
from H&M’s 2013 
holiday campaign , where 
the H&M Conscious 
Foundation donated money 
to WaterAid for each 
10 EUR/10 USD gift 
card sold at H&M. 
Thank you 
for your support!These toilets are regularly 
cleaned and guarded , 
so that women like Shathi 
can feel safer .NO. OF COTTON FARMERS  
TRAINED AND ACCREDITED FOR BETTER 
COTTON INITIATIVE (BCI) (ACCUMULATED)
28,50090,000164,000680,000
2010 2011 2012 2013
TOTAL COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS/DONATIONS (IN MILLION USD)
H&M CONSCIOUS FOUNDA TIONH&M
CUSTOMERS
2014 20134.6
1.5
20120.6
20111.2
For 2014 the H&M Conscious Foundation’s total is pledged donations (not disbursed) covering the period of 
January 1–December 31. The currency is converted from SEK as per Nov 30. For 2014 H&M’s total donation also 
includes shared value investments.5.26.1 0.80.11.438.7
1.210.8NO. OF GARMENTS DONATED  
TO AID ORGANISATIONS
2012 2013 20143.2 
million4.6
million
3.5
million103 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Performance overviewCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESPROGRESS REPORTDEADLINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – INVESTMENTS IN SHARED VALUE ALONG OUR VALUE CHAIN
7.1 Create and contribute to more and better employment opportunities year-to-year
7.2 Empower over 1.7 million children through education, health and child protection through the All for Children project 2018
7.3 Help train 1 million cotton farmers to grow cotton with less impact on the environment and with improved livelihood 2015
7.4 Provide at least 500,000 people with access to safe water in countries where our products are made 2016
7.5 Develop and roll out a new community development strategy 2014
FOCUS – MAKING A DIFFERENCE BEYOND H&M’S VALUE CHAIN – THE H&M CONSCIOUS FOUNDATION
7.6 Enable 73,600 children to benefit from early childhood development programmes 2017
7.7 Provide 250,000 students with access to clean water and toilets in schools and educate them in hygiene practices 2017
7.8 Provide 100,000 women in poor communities worldwide with skills training and/or seed capital to start up or expand their own business 2017
7.9 Provide emergency relief and donations as required104 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESFocus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chain
Prosperous and stable markets where 
human rights are respected, skills 
training is readily available and the 
eco-systems are healthy benefit our 
business. In order to secure our long-
term profitability and growth, we 
need to ensure the communities that 
contribute to our success benefit from 
our presence. So the way we operate 
must contribute to their development 
and we create shared value through 
strategic investments. This way, we 
make a difference to the livelihood 
of millions, human rights and the 
environment wherever we operate.We work across our operations with 
our suppliers and increasingly with 
their suppliers to create jobs and better 
livelihoods for people, women in par -
ticular. With mutual dependency along 
our value chain, this positive impact 
is vital to the way we do business. In 
our sales and our production markets, 
we invest in strategic initiatives and 
long-term collaborations that help us 
extend the positive impacts we create 
through our business. Where com -
munity issues are beyond our direct 
operations and our influence is weaker, 
we partner with community partners 
such as WaterAid, the ILO and the 
Better Cotton Initiative to drive posi -
tive development.
COMMUNITIES BEYOND  
OUR VALUE CHAIN
MAKE A DIFFERENCE
Beyond H&M’s value chain
– the H&M Conscious 
FoundationOUR OPERATIONS
& SUPPLIERS
COMMUNITIES ALONG
 OUR VALUE CHAINCREATE  
POSSITIVE IMPACT
Through the way 
we do businessINVESTMENTS  
IN SHARED VALUE
Along our value chain105 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
Interview with Vidyasagar Ramamurthy, Child Protection Specialist 
UNICEF Office for Tamil Nadu & Kerala, India
What are the biggest challenges for the fashion 
industry in India?
India accounts for 22% of the world’s area that is 
under cotton cultivation and 14% of global produc -
tion. The textile industry plays an important role 
in the Indian economy and generates significant 
employment. The industry accounts for about 14% 
of industrial production, 4% of GDP and 16% of the 
country’s export earnings. Over 30% of the textile 
production of India is exported to foreign markets.
 
Still, the major challenge for the fashion industry and 
international buyers is to change the working con -
ditions throughout the supply chain. This includes 
issues from children involved in cotton production  
to young girls working in spinning, weaving and garment production. The main chal -
lenge is to eliminate child labour and 
establish fair labour practices as well  
as environmentally-friendly production  
conditions. Unfair labour practices 
affect not only the workers in the textile 
industry but also the children of the 
workers. Moreover, when children 
are involved in production processes 
down the supply chain, it is often at the 
expense of their health and schooling. 
Unfortunately, spinning mills are the 
area where questionable working  
conditions are most likely to exist, 
especially in the form of ’camp coolie 
systems’ or ’Sumangali Schemes’. Some 
owners of the spinning mills take 
advantage of the poverty and illiteracy 
of rural parents and their anxiety 
about their daughters’ marriage pos -
sibilities and employ unmarried young 
girls from the villages to work in their 
mills (married girls are not employed). 
The weaving operation is often carried 
out in small-scale power loom units. In 
Tamil Nadu alone, there are 500,000 
registered power looms, which is 22% 
of the total number in the country. 
It is estimated that there is an equal “H&M is working for  
systemic and sustainable  
changes in their supply 
chain”.  
Vidyasagar Ramamurthy, Child Protection 
Specialist UNICEF Office for Tamil Nadu  
& Kerala, Indianumber of unregistered power looms. 
The power loom sector in the state 
also accounts for employment of young 
workers under servile working condi -
tions. 
How do you think H&M’s shared value 
strategy helps address this along their 
value chain?
As a major buyer, H&M has well-con -
ceived plans for addressing the issues 
mentioned above. In particularly, H&M 
is working for systemic and sustainable 
changes in their supply chain. Some 
of the best examples are the Better 
Cotton Initiative, promoting organic 
cotton and their efforts to implement 
fair living wages in the textile industry. These projects are all implemented 
with a time bound action plan and 
detailed road maps, and when fully 
implemented they will have significant 
positive impacts. Not only for the cur -
rent generation of workers but also  
for the future generation. 
What do you think is the most sig -
nificant achievement from All for 
Children?
Through All for Children, H&M has 
financially supported the Integrated 
Child Protection Project in the Salem 
and Dharmapuri districts of Tamil 
Nadu. UNICEF has been running this 
project since 2009. The objective of the 
programme is to prevent and respond 
to the exploitation of children working 
in these two districts where cotton and 
cotton seed are produced. 
The project has so far benefited over 
1.7 million children below the age of 
14 and their families, either directly 
or indirectly. A protective environ -
ment has been built for these children 
through creating new structures at 
various levels including the grass 
root level, intermediate levels and the Focus: Investments in shared value  
along our value chain106 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESFocus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chain
“Still, the major challenge for the fashion 
industry and international buyers  
is to change working conditions through- 
out the supply chain”.  
Vidyasagar Ramamurthy, Child Protection Specialist  
UNICEF Office for Tamil Nadu & Kerala, India
district level. Capacities of elected 
representatives, service providers/
officials and communities as key 
stakeholders at various levels have 
been established and are oriented 
and motivated to focus on child rights 
issues. There is universal elemen -
tary education for children up to 14 
years in the two districts, and the 
problem of last mile population is 
being tackled. The issues of child 
marriage and abuse of children have 
entered the public discourse in the 
districts and there has been a positive 
response to reported cases. A deep 
awareness of child rights issues has 
been persistently created in both the 
districts. Now we are experiencing a much stronger social commitment to 
bring all children to schools and stop 
child labour. Regular inspections are 
conducted in identified child labour 
intensive occupations like cotton seed 
farming and urban informal sectors. 
The most important contribution of  
the programme is to activate the gov -
ernment structures at various levels  
to get information flow, respond to  
the issues of children immediately 
and come up with necessary changes 
in the administrative structures. The 
distance between the people and the 
government administration has been 
narrowed so that children enjoy their 
entitlements. 107 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESFocus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chain
We are a growing business and with 
our growth new job opportunities 
follow. In 2014, we created 16,000 
additional jobs (net) within the H&M 
Group. In total, we have created 
56,000 jobs (net) globally in the past 
five years. Additionally, our business 
contributes to job opportunities for 
around 1.6 million people employed 
by our suppliers, 64% of whom are 
women. While the economic climate 
is challenging in many countries, we 
are confident that we can keep creat -
ing further employment both in our 
own operations and throughout our 
value chain.7.1 Create and contribute to 
more and better employment 
opportunities
DEADLINE STATUS
year-to-year done56,000  additional jobs 
created in our stores, offices 
and warehouses in the 
last 5 years
The right to education is a univer -
sally recognised human right and  
a prerequisite for sustainable devel -
opment and prosperity. Together 
with UNICEF we initiated the All 
for Children project in 2009. All for 
Children is a unique collaboration 
through which we support UNICEF 
in cotton-growing areas in India and  
in urban slum areas in Dhaka, Bang -
ladesh. The goal is to protect the 
right to education as well as other 
basic rights of some of the world’s 
poorest children. Our initial goal 
was to empower 1.7 million children 
through preschool and primary 
education, health and child protec -
tion structures by 2018 at the latest. 
The H&M Conscious Foun  dation 
took over the project at the end of 
2014 and will continue to support 
the project with UNICEF until 2018. 7.2 Empower over 1.7 million 
children through education, 
health and child protection 
through the All for Children 
project
DEADLINE STATUS
2018 doneBy 2014, the All for Children project 
had reached out to more than 1.7 
million children in the Tamil Nadu 
province in the southern part of 
India and in the poorer communities 
of Dhaka. 
>hm.com/allforchildren
JOB CREATION (NET) IN OUR STORES, 
OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES*
201011,000
20117,000
201210,000
201312,000
201416,000
*Total heads108 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESFocus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chain
Through our membership in the Better 
Cotton Initiative (BCI), we help train 
cotton farmers. We are a founding 
member and major contributor to BCI 
since its establishment in 2009. We 
have invested a total of EUR 3.85 mil -
lion, making us the biggest financial 
contributor. The BCI plays an impor -
tant role in reaching our goal to only 
use cotton from more sustainable 
sources by 2020 at the latest (s. 1.2). 
We use more and more Better Cotton 
and the training of cotton farmers 
helps us to secure the supply that we 
need. The WWF and Solidaridad are 
implementation partners in the BCI 
and ensure farmers receive both the 
know-how and tools to grow cotton 
with less environmental impact. At the 
same time, the farmers increase their 
profitability and strengthen their local 
communities. Since 2010, more than 
680,000 farmers have been trained 7.3 Help train 1 million cotton  
farmers to grow cotton with 
less impact on the environment 
and with improved livelihood
DEADLINE STATUS
2015 on trackand accredited as BCI farmers. With 
this, the BCI is close to reaching the 
goal to train one million farmers by 
2015. This year, the BCI initiated vari -
ous new partnerships such as Cotton 
made in Africa (CmiA). This is clearly 
shown in the significant increase in 
the training of farmers this year. The 
BCI aims to have 5 million Better 
Cotton farmers that will be producing 
roughly 30% of the world’s cotton.
>bettercotton.org
More than 680,000 cotton farmers trained in  
growing cotton with less environmental impact and 
better livelihood for their communities and accredited 
by the Better Cotton Initiative since 2010.748 million people in the world  
do not have access to clean water. 
We want to play our part in tack -
ling this challenge especially in the 
countries where our products are 
made. H&M and the H&M Conscious 
Foundation are working to provide 
at least 500,000 people with safe 
water. Together with partners such 
as WaterAid we have so far reached 
430,697 people in Bangladesh, India, 
Pakistan and Ethiopia since 2002. 
>wateraid.com7.4 Provide at least 500,000 
people with access to safe 
water in countries where  
our products are made
DEADLINE STATUS
2016 on track
During 2014, we finalised and rolled  
out our new community development 
strategy. It is a significant step to 
further strengthen our community 
work and our business decisions 
locally. With the new strategy we 
are focusing on long-term projects 
and initiatives with expected returns 
for both our business and the local 
communities where we operate. 
More specifically, this means that 
nearly 70% of all of our investments 
and donations are shared value 
investments. 7.5 Develop and roll out a 
new community development 
strategy
DEADLINE STATUS
2014 doneTogether with partners such 
as WaterAid we have so far helped  
over 430,000  people in Bangladesh, 
India, Pakistan and Ethiopia gain 
access to safe water
NO. OF COTTON FARMERS  
TRAINED AND ACCREDITED FOR BETTER 
COTTON INITIATIVE (BCI) (ACCUMULATED)We define shared value investments 
as business cases that address a 
challenge for us to reach key business 
goals in the market by working on 
the community level with partners.
Figures have been re-stated to align with BCI reported 
data and reporting cycles. Latest figures available are 
2013 calendar year figures.28,50090,000164,000680,000
2010 2011 2012 2013109 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014COMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESMission StrategyFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain  
– The H&M Conscious Foundation
The H&M Conscious Foundation is an independent 
non-profit global foundation initiated to complement  
H&M’s sustainability work. The mission of the 
Foundation is to drive positive long-lasting change 
by investing in people and communities beyond 
H&M’s value chain.
The H&M Conscious Foundation is 
funded by the Stefan Persson family,  
the founders and main owners of H&M.  
Thanks to their donations – a total  
of SEK 700 million (USD 105 million  
/EUR 80 million) since 2013 – it is 
possible for the H&M Conscious 
Foundation to drive positive change 
on a global scale. The Foundation works with three focus areas: Educa -
tion, Clean Water and Strengthening 
Women. These focus areas were cho -
sen by H&M customers and employees 
through a global online vote in 2013. 
Through its three global programmes, 
the H&M Conscious Foundation works 
together with UNICEF, WaterAid and CARE to drive transformative change 
by addressing structural barriers  
and promote new policy within each 
focus area. As of 2014, these three pro -
grammes receive a total of SEK 60 mil -
lion each within a three-year period. In 
addition to the global programmes, the 
H&M Conscious Foundation supports 
local projects in countries where H&M 
operates with the aim of achieving 
posi  tive and direct impact on people’s 
everyday lives. The Foundation works 
with a range of partner organisations 
with specific local knowledge to address  
issues within the three focus areas. 
During 2014, local projects were initi -
ated in Cambodia, Ethiopia, India, 
Indonesia, Romania, South Africa  
and the USA. 
In addition, the H&M Conscious 
Foundation is able to quickly provide 
emergency relief support in the case  
of any sudden natural disasters in  
a country where H&M operates. The 
Foundation initiates discussions with 
community partners to determine if 
and what support is needed in order 
to act quickly. 
>hm.com/consciousfoundationPLEDGED DONATIONS 2014* (IN SEK)
Three global programmes 1)180,000,000
Local projects 2)68,408,000
Emergency relief 3)1 ,379,  743
Global giving Holiday 
Campaign 4) 37,050,000
TOTAL** 286 ,837,  743
* Referring to the full calendar year of 2014.
** Whereof SEK 96,180,559 has been disbursed during 2014.1) Mentioned on pages 110 and 111.
2) Mentioned on page 111, including 
 UNICEF project mentioned in 7.2.
3) Mentioned on page 111.
4) Mentioned on pages 26 and 102.
110 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M Conscious Foundation
The brain’s ability to develop is 
strongest before the age of eight. 
Early childhood care and education  
are especially important to lay the  
foundation for this development – 
for the individual child as well as 
for the entire community. However, 
approximately one-third of the 
children under the age of five in 
developing countries are not achiev -
ing their development potential. 
Funding of early childhood develop -
ment is not commonly prioritised  
by government agencies or donors. 
To help tackle this global challenge, 
the H&M Conscious Foundation 
teamed up with UNICEF to invest in 
children’s early education and devel -
opment. This flagship programme  
aims to reach out to 73,600 children 
who will benefit from early child -
hood development programmes by 
2017. Additionally, the aim is to lift 
the topic on the global agenda by 7.6 Enable 73,600 children to 
benefit from early childhood 
development programmes 
DEADLINE STATUS
2017 on track supporting three governments in 
integrating early childhood develop -
ment in their development agendas 
and national budgets as well as by 
creating the first ever Global Report 
on Early Childhood Development, 
providing the necessary data to base  
policies on and measure their success.  
In 2014, UNICEF initiated the imple -
mentation process of the planned 
activities. UNICEF country offices 
have collaborated with governments 
to include the H&M Conscious 
Foundation’s funded activities in the 
official national collaboration plans 
and have also involved multiple sec -
tors of government and communities 
in the planning and implementation 
of Early Childhood Development 
programmes to influence systems, 
policies and curricula.
>unicef.orgImagine if you didn’t have access  
to a toilet or clean water. This is the 
reality for over 50% of the students 
in low-income countries in their 
schools. This lack contributes to 
diseases, with negative impacts 
on education, but it also has wider 
implications on gender equality, 
development and economic growth 
in these communities. This is why 
the H&M Conscious Foundation 
partnered with WaterAid to provide 
250,000 students with access to 
clean water and toilets in schools 
and hygiene education. Beyond this,  
the programme will advocate, influ -
ence and support policy-makers on  
the national and regional level and 
lobby for the Post 2015 framework 
and the UN Sustainable Develop -
ment Goals. The purpose is to 
include a water and sanitation goal,  
with targets to provide safe water, 7.7 Provide 250,000 students 
with access to clean water and 
toilets in schools and educate 
them in hygiene practices
DEADLINE STATUS
2017 on track sanitation and hygiene for all schools  
globally. In 2014, WaterAid initiated 
the implementation process of the 
programme. WaterAid has been  
working closely with implementing 
partners to prepare programmatic 
plans, perform risk assessments and 
baseline studies and establish rela -
tionships with multiple sectors of 
government, communities and other 
stakeholders. In addition, several 
lobbying activities have been carried 
out at the UN in order to influence 
the inclusion of water and sanitation 
in the new Sustainability Goals. 
>wateraid.com111 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M Conscious Foundation
60% of the world’s working poor 
are women. Globally, women spend 
at least twice as much time as men 
doing unpaid domestic work, and 
their total work hours are longer 
than men’s in all regions of the 
world. Women have less access to 
education, financial services and 
resources, technical and vocational 
skills training as well as limited 
rights to own and inherit property. 
Women often face more barriers, 
cultural or structural, than men in 
most aspects of life. In partnership 
with the international humanitar -
ian and development organisation, 
CARE, the H&M Conscious Founda -
tion is committed to empowering 
women in developing countries. One 
of the goals is to provide 100,000 
women in poor communities world -
wide with business skills training 7.8 Provide 100,000 women 
in poor communities world -
wide with skills training and
/or seed capital to start up 
or expand their own business
DEADLINE STATUS
2017 on track and/or seed capital to start up or 
expand their business. Studies show 
that societies as a whole benefit when  
countries practice gender equality. 
Beyond that, the programme aims to  
break down myths and beliefs about  
women’s abilities through regional 
campaigns with inspiring role models.  
Also by advocating policy changes, 
more women can reach their full 
potential and exercise their rights. 
In 2014, CARE finalised the incep -
tion phase of the programme. Coun -
try offices have begun implementing 
and developing the programme 
components of skills development, 
seed capital funding and regional 
campaigning with women from poor 
communities. Further, monitoring 
and evaluation processes have been 
planned and developed. 
>care.orgIn 2014, parts of South Asia were 
affected by devastating flooding, 
affecting more than 7 million people 
all together. In response, the H&M 
Conscious Foundation donated USD 
100,000 to Save the Children’s relief 
efforts. The donation enabled Save 
the Children to provide hygiene kits, 
blankets, tents, nutrition and child-
friendly spaces. 
The H&M Conscious Foundation also 
donated USD 100,000 to the Rana 
Plaza Donors Trust Fund in order to  
support the victims of the Rana Plaza  
disaster and their families in Bang -
ladesh. The Foundation made this 
donation based on humanitarian 
grounds, even though H&M never 
had any business relations with any 
factories in Rana Plaza.
In addition to the H&M Conscious 
Foundation’s emergency relief, 
H&M’s customers donated over USD 7.9 Provide emergency relief 
and donations
DEADLINE STATUS
as required done300,000 through in-store campaigns 
to causes such as UNICEF’s relief 
to refugees from Syria and efforts 
to fight the spread of Ebola. H&M’s 
local offices donated USD 179,000 
to UNICEF and the Red Cross (in 
Croatia and Serbia during the heavy 
flooding in the region in May).
Additionally, each year, H&M donates  
large quantities of clothes to organi -
sations and charities in the countries  
where H&M operates. To support 
these efforts there is an explicit gar -
ment donation policy stating that all 
unsold, safe-to-use products should 
be donated to charity or, if possible, 
recycled into something useful. In 
2014, H&M donated more than 4.6 
million garments globally.
>ranaplazaarrangement.org112 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Auditor review statementINFORMATION
To H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
We have been engaged by the manage -
ment of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB 
(H & M) to perform a limited assur -
ance engagement on the information 
in H & M’s Conscious Actions Sustain -
ability Report 2014 with regards to 
the following indicators referred to 
in the GRI index that can be found 
in the ’GRI index 2014’:
– Identified material aspects  
and boundaries (G4-17 – G4-23),  
p. 115–116.
– Stakeholder engagement (G4-24 
G4-27), p. 12, 115.
– Energy: Energy consumption within 
the organization (G4-EN3), p. 74. 
Energy intensity (G4-EN5), p. 74. 
– Percentage of renewable energy 
(AF21), p.73, 74.
– Emissions: Direct greenhouse gas 
emissions (scope 1), (G4-EN15), p. 73. 
Energy indirect greenhouse gas emis -
sions (scope 2), (G4-EN16), p. 73. 
Other indirect greenhouse gas emis -
sions (scope 3), (G4-EN17), p. 76. – Materials: Materials used by weight or 
volume (G4-EN1), p. 17. Tons of garments 
collected for reuse and recycling, p. 83.
– Supply chain: Incidents of non-com -
pliance with Code of Conduct (AF14), 
p. 38.
– Anti-corruption: Confirmed inci -
dents of corruption and actions taken 
(G4-SO5), p. 57.
H & M’s Conscious Actions Sustain -
ability Report 2014 covers the period  
1 December 2013–30 November 2014.
Management’s responsibility
The Management of H & M is responsi -
ble for preparing and presenting the H 
& M Conscious Actions Sustainability 
Report in accordance with the report -
ing criteria as set out in the company’s 
own reporting guidelines as well as 
the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 
Guidelines G4. As discussed in the 
section “How we report”, p. 114 in the 
H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability 
Report, greenhouse gas quantifica -
tion is subject to inherent uncertainty 
because of incomplete scientific knowl -
edge used to determine emissions fac -tors and the values needed to combine 
emissions of different gases.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a 
conclusion on the above specified 
indicators in the H & M Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report based 
on the limited assurance procedures 
we have performed. The selection of 
indicators to be reviewed has been 
made by the management of H & M 
Hennes & Mauritz AB. We do not 
accept, nor assume responsibility 
to anyone else, except to H & M for 
our work, for the limited assurance 
report, or for the conclusion that we 
have reached. 
We conducted our limited assurance 
engagement in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ’Assur -
ance Engagements Other than Audits 
or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information’. The ISAE 3000 stand -
ard requires that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the assurance engagement to 
obtain limited assurance on whether 
any matters have come to our atten -tion that would cause us to believe 
that the above-specified informa -
tion in the H & M Conscious Actions 
Sustainability Report has not been 
prepared, in all material respects, 
in accordance with the reporting 
criteria.
A limited assurance engagement is 
provided only on the information 
disclosed in the H & M Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report, not on 
information linked to and disclosed 
on other web pages. 
The presented information in the 
H & M Conscious Actions Sustainabil -
ity Report is to be considered in con -
nection with the explanatory informa -
tion on data collection, consolidation 
and assessments provided by H & M. 
This independent limited assurance 
report should not be used on its own 
as a basis for interpreting H & M’s per -
formance in relation to its principles 
of corporate responsibility.
Our review procedures are designed 
to obtain limited assurance on whether  
the above-specified indicators are 
presented in accordance with the 113 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Auditor review statementINFORMATION
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 
of the Global Reporting Initiative, G4, 
in all material respects. 
A limited assurance engagement 
consists of making inquiries, primary 
of persons responsible for the prepa -
ration of the H & M Conscious Actions 
Sustainability Report and applying 
analytical and other evidence gather -
ing procedures, as appropriate. The 
procedures performed in a limited 
assurance engagement vary in nature 
from, and are less in extent than, for  
a reasonable assurance engagement  
conducted in accordance with IAASB’s  
Standards on Auditing and Quality 
Control and other generally accepted 
auditing standards. The procedures 
performed consequently do not enable  
us to obtain assurance that we would 
become aware of all significant matters  
that might be identified in a reasonable  
assurance engagement. Accordingly, 
we do not express a reasonable assur -
ance conclusion. Our procedures are 
based on the criteria defined by the 
Management as described above. We 
consider these criteria suitable for 
the preparation of the Sustainability 
Report.We believe that the evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our conclusion below. 
Conclusion
Based on our work described in this 
report, nothing has come to our atten -
tion that causes us to believe that 
the information regarding the above 
specified indicators in the H&M Con -
scious Actions Sustainability Report 
has not, in all material respects, been 
prepared in accordance with the 
reporting criteria stated above.
Stockholm, April 9 2015
Ernst & Young AB  
Åsa Lundvall   
Authorised Public Accountant  
 
Charlotte Söderlund
Authorised Public Accountant114 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014How we reportINFORMATION
We are committed to transparent 
reporting on the progress we make 
towards meeting our seven commit -
ments.
H&M’s Conscious Actions Sustainability Report, 
which is produced annually, covers material sus -
tainability strategies, activities, goals and perfor -
mance for the global Group operations of H & M 
Hennes & Mauritz AB (also called H&M in this 
report), including all its brands (H&M, COS, Week -
day, Monki, Cheap Monday, & Other Stories) as 
well as its wholly or partially-owned subsidiaries 
globally during our financial year from 1 Decem -
ber 2013 to 30 November 2014, unless stated 
otherwise (for a full list of entities, please see our 
Annual Report 2014). We aim to tackle impacts 
wherever they occur in our value chain, and this 
is reflected in our reporting wherever possible. 
Information limited in scope to only one of these 
brands or any other limitations or deviations in 
scope are clearly stated in the respective section  
of this report. Unless stated, franchise operations 
are not included.
The report was reviewed by the highest executive 
management and external assurance has been per -
formed for selected indicators (clearly marked and 
where applicable as well as in regards to materiality 
and stakeholder engagement). Additional stake -holder comments and interviews have 
been included throughout this report. 
All data is collected by our sustain -
ability team from the relevant func -
tions within our organisation and 
from external parties such as suppli -
ers or implementing partners. It is 
always reviewed by our internal con -
trolling team in addition to relevant 
experts in our sustainability team 
as well as expert functions following 
a two-tier quality control principle. 
Any extrapolations or estimations are 
clearly indicated. The same goes for 
any changes in data methodologies or 
scope that may have an effect on data 
comparability.
All data is based on the best possible 
systems that are currently available to 
us and where applicable aligned with 
recognised standards. However, this 
needs to be seen in the light of con -
tinued improvements of data systems, 
methodologies and scientific uncer -
tainties. For example, while our GHG 
emissions accounting and reporting 
is aligned with the GHG Protocol and 
the emission factors we use are from 
publicly available sources such as the 
International Energy Agency (IEA), the Network for Transport Measures 
(NTM), Reliable disclosure system for  
Europe (RE-DISS) and supplier speci -
fied emission factors. GHG emission 
data is subject to inherent uncer -
tainties due to incomplete scientific 
knowledge used to determine emis -
sion factors and resulting effects on 
measurements and estimations. The 
reported energy usage is based on 
invoiced data and data as reported  
by transport providers. Conversion  
between fuel usage and energy 
content has been done using energy 
values specified by the supplier or 
by using tabled values provided by 
national bodies.
Unless otherwise specified, all data 
concerning suppliers and supplier 
factories includes all suppliers and 
factories that were active and approved 
for production during the reporting 
period. Factories included in our scope 
are 1st tier manufacturing or processing 
(i.e. washing or dyeing), factories that 
are owned or subcontracted by our sup -
pliers as well as (where stated) selected 
2nd tier suppliers and suppliers for 
non-commercial goods (such as store 
interior suppliers).Monetary amounts are reported 
mainly in the currency of transaction 
(usually SEK). Additional currency 
values are conversions as approximate 
figures based on the conversion rate 
on 30 November 2014, unless stated 
otherwise.
Additional information is provided 
at hm.com/conscious  as well as in our 
financial and corporate governance 
reporting. Our most recent sustainabil -
ity report was published in April 2014. 
We are signatories to the UN Global 
Compact and our annual Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report also 
serves as our Communication on 
Progress (COP) for the UN Global 
Compact as well as the CEO Water 
Mandate.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
This report is prepared in accord -
ance with the GRI G4 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines (Core). We have  
additionally included material indica -
tors from the pilot of the Apparel  
and Footwear Sector Supplement.  
The detailed GRI index can be found 
at hm.com/gri .115 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INFORMATION
How we reportProcess for identifying the most mate -
rial aspects and their boundaries
In 2014, we reviewed the material 
aspects identified and published with 
our Conscious Actions Sustainability 
Report 2013. The process for defin -
ing the report content and the aspect 
boundaries in our 2014 Report has 
been based on the following main 
steps:
Identification: Mapping aspects and 
creating a gross list
During 2013, we identified a gross list  
of aspects through an analysis of 
external standards such as the GRI G4 
Aspect list, legislation, investor and 
NGO questionnaires, peer reviews, 
business intelligence, lifecycle assess -
ment results, stakeholder dialogues 
and stakeholder reports as well as 
media coverage. The gross list has 
been checked against GRI’s Sustain -
ability Context and Stakeholder Inclu -
siveness tests.
Prioritisation: Scoring and prioritis -
ing aspects 
To prioritise the most material aspects 
from this gross list, we scored the 
different aspects in regards to their influence on stakeholder assessment 
and decisions and their significance 
for economic, environmental and 
social impacts. Both categories were 
broken down into a number of differ -
ent categories such as frequency raised 
by key stakeholders (weighted x3), 
frequency featured in media (weighted 
x1) and frequency raised in key sus -
tainability benchmarks, rankings and 
indices (weighted x1) (to determine the 
influence on stakeholder assessment 
and decisions) as well as social and 
environmental impacts (weighted x1) 
and importance to business strategy 
(weighted x2) (to determine the signifi -
cance of economic, environmental and 
social impacts). Scores were given by at 
least two internal experts per category 
as well as based on lifecycle assess -
ment (LCA) data and existing strategy 
documents. This way, about 60 aspects 
could be identified as material. For the 
sake of user friendliness, these were 
thematically clustered into 25 focus 
areas and gathered in a materiality 
matrix (p. 116).
The impact scoring as well as the 
boundary descriptions were checked 
against GRI’s reasonability tests.Validation of materiality matrix  
with key stakeholders
To validate the matrix, we selected at 
least one representative from each of 
our key stakeholder groups (including 
customers, colleagues, communities, 
suppliers and their employees, indus -
try peers, NGOs, IGOs, policymakers 
and investors). 11 stakeholder repre -
sentatives were asked to provide feed -
back on this materiality matrix. These 
organisations were chosen basedon  
their know-how, their ability to make 
professional and critical judgements, 
and the coverage of aspects potentially  
material. 
Their comments were gathered syste -
matically and are incorporated in the 
materiality matrix published in this 
report.
The feedback from our external stake-  
holder representatives at large con -
firmed this materiality analysis. No 
aspect was considered missing, but 
based on their feedback we moved the  
positioning of four aspects in the matrix.
Throughout this process, we have 
used the principles of defining report content in order to secure a robust 
process.
Review of materiality matrix in 2014
In 2014, we reviewed the outcomes 
of this process based on stakeholder 
feedback gathered with the release of 
our 2013 report as well as stakeholder 
engagement processes throughout the 
year and feedback from internal stake -
holders. As a result, we found that our 
materiality matrix was still valid for 
2014. However, we made two adjust -
ments. Following stakeholder feedback 
we prioritised animal welfare even 
higher in its significance to economic, 
environmental and social impacts and 
in our business strategy by developing 
an animal welfare roadmap spanning 
across our entire value chain. We have 
also merged our focus area “Improved 
Supplier Performance” into our focus 
area “Supply Chain Management” as 
both internal as external feedback told 
us that both aspects are too closely 
connected to be seperated.116 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER ASSESSMENTS AND DECISIONS
SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTSREPORTED AT LEAST IN NARRATIVE, 
WHEREVER POSSIBLE WITH 
MEASURABLE KPI.REPORTED IN DETAIL, WHEREVER 
POSSIBLE WITH MEASURABLE KPI OR 
PREFERABLY GOAL, AIM FOR EXTERNAL 
ASSURANCE WHEREVER USEFUL.
NO REPORTING 
OR REPORTING ON REQUEST.REPORTED AT LEAST IN NARRATIVE, 
WHEREVER POSSIBLE 
WITH MEASURABLE KPI.ASPECTS INCLUDED
1. Materials (G4), Products and Services (G4), Product 
and Service Labelling (G4) 2. Sustainable Customer 
Behavioural Change 3. Animal Welfare 4. Purchasing  
Practices, Supplier Environmental Assessments (G4), 
Supplier Assessments Labour Practices (G4), Invest -
ments (Human Rights) (G4), Supplier Human Rights 
Assessments (G4), Human Rights Grievance Mecha -
nisms (G4), Supplier Capacity Building, Strategies to 
Expand Influence over Entire Value Chain, Labour 
Practices Grievance Mechanisms (G4), Non-discrimi -
nation (G4), Child Labour (G4), Forced or Compulsory 
Labour (G4), Overtime in Supply Chain, Uzbek Cotton, 
Sumangali Schemes, Supply Chain Workers Health & 
Safety 5. Fair Living Wages in Supply Chain 6. Freedom 
of Association and Collective Bargaining (G4) 7. Anti-
Corruption (G4) 8. Employment (G4), Labour/Manage -
ment Relations (G4), Occupational Health & Safety (G4), 
Training and Education (G4), Employee Satisfaction 
9. Investment (G4), Assessments (G4), Human Rights 
Grievance Mechanisms (G4) 10. Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity (G4), Non-discrimination (G4) 11. Market -
ing Communications (G4), Customer Privacy (G4) 12. 
Energy (G4), Emissions (G4) 13. End of life solutions/
Circular Economy Strategies. 14 Effluents and waste 
(G4). 15 Packaging (G4). 16 Water (G4) 17. Effluents and 
Waste (G4), Customer Health & Safety (G4). 18. Indirect 
Economic Impacts (G4), Local Communities (G4) 19. 
Economic Performance (G4). 20. Market Presence (G4) 
21. Biodiversity (G4) 22. Overall (G4) 23. Anti-competi -
tive Behaviour (G4) 24. Responsible Tax Planning
>globalreporting.orgMateriality matrix
1
25
6
789
10
111213
14
151617
1819
2021
22 2324OUR COMMITMENTS             FOCUS AREAS
PROVIDE FASHION 
FOR CONSCIOUS 
CUSTOMERSCONSCIOUS PRODUCTS AND 
MATERIALS
INVOLVE OUR CUSTOMERS AND 
COLLEAGUES
ANIMAL WELFARE
CHOOSE AND
REWARD RESPONSIBLE 
PARTNERSSUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR LIVING WAGES
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
BE ETHICAL ANTI-CORRUPTION
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
HUMAN RIGHTS
DIVERSITY & EQUALITY
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING
BE CLIMATE SMART CLIMATE (Emissions from our 
own operations; Emissions along 
our value chain)
REDUCE, REUSE, 
RECYCLECLOSE THE LOOP ON TEXTILE 
FIBRES
WASTE
USE NATURAL 
RESOURCES 
RESPONSIBLYPACKAGING
WATER STEWARDSHIP
CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
STRENGHTEN 
COMMUNITIESCOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
(Investments in shared value; 
Community support; Making a 
difference beyond H&M’s value chain  
– the H&M Conscious Foundation)
OTHER ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
MARKET PRESENCE
BIODIVERSITY
ENVIRONMENTAL 
EXPENDITURES
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR
RESPONSIBLE TAX PLANNING1
2
3
34
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24How we reportINFORMATION
4117 OF 117
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
More information
To find out more about H&M Conscious  
and our policies and strategies, read 
case studies, watch videos and much 
more, please visit hm.com/conscious .
Contact
We appreciate your feedback. 
Please send your questions or 
comments regarding this report 
to hendrik.alpen @hm.com  
or morten.bredal @hm.comThank you for taking  
the time to learn about  
H&M CONSCIOUSINFORMATION
Get in touch