CONSCIOUS 
ACTIONS 
Sustainability 
Report 20132 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Introduct Ion
cEo interview 3
About H&M c onscious 5
Key performance 2013 6
the impacts and challenges along  
our value chain 7
How we are organised 10
Joint forces for solutions 11
our c oMMI tMEnts
Provide fashion for conscious customers 12
choose and reward responsible partners 21
Be ethical 38
Be climate smart 51
reduce, reuse, recycle 58
use natural resources responsibly 65
strengthen communities 76
Infor MAt Ion
How we report 85
Auditor’s review report 88
stakeholder review statements 90
Get in touch 92tABlE of cont Ents
Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2013
3 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Introduct Ion
CEO interview
2013 was another successful year for 
H&M and we continued to make sig -
nificant progress in our Conscious Actions. r ead in this interview with 
our c Eo Karl-Johan Persson about the 
role H&M is playing in creating a more sustainable fashion future and how this will contribute to an even stronger 
custo  mer offering at H&M.I hope that we will be able to produce 
fashion in a closed loop, using less of 
our planet’s resources and reducing 
waste instead. f or the resources that 
we will still need, we must share them 
fairly between today’s and future 
generations. t hat means, for example, 
that already today we are setting the 
direction so that we play our part in 
ensuring that there will be enough clean water for everyone. 
I also hope that all garment workers 
around the world will earn a fair liv -
ing wage, which in turn will contrib -
ute to stable production markets and 
a more mature garment industry. 
And I believe that customers will 
increasingly demand products that not only look good and are affordable, 
but that are also made sustainably. transparency and informed product 
choices will be some of the key words.
What is H&M doing to pave the way 
for this future?for example, we now collect clothes 
that are no longer wanted from our customers in all of our markets. In early 2014, we launched the first prod -
ucts made with recycled fibres from such collected clothes. 
Looking back at 2013, what made  you proud?
We opened the first stores in the 
southern hemisphere and there are more new markets to come all over the 
world. Each opening again reminds 
me of the vast number of people we reach wherever we operate. With such 
impact, of course, comes great respon -
sibility. 
We want to make sure we make 
places better than they were with -
out us. t his is especially the case for 
some of our production countries. It 
certainly makes me proud to know 
that we actively contribute to their 
development and to improving the livelihood of many people – not only 
in 2013, but hopefully for many more 
years to come. 
Looking ahead, how do you envision 
the future for H&M and the fashion 
industry in general?
of course I hope that H&M will con -
tinue to grow and contribute to jobs 
and development around the world. 
But to continue growing, we need to consider our planet’s boundaries. I 
believe that the way fashion is made 
and consumed will change. We are continuing to invest in our 
customer offering – with sustainability 
being an important added value. As 
part of this, we have been working to promote wage increases and regular 
wage revisions for garment workers for 
many years. n ow we have taken this 
to another level and launched our f air 
living Wage roadmap, marking an 
important contribution towards fair living wages in the textile industry. I 
hope that this will inspire other com -
panies to do the same.
What could have worked better?
We always want to improve in eve -
rything we do. We are certainly not 
perfect. f or example, we always strive 
to create advertising campaigns that 
convey a positive and healthy look. I 
think we always need to keep working 
to ensure that we deliver this in all our campaigns. t here are of course many 
other challenges that we continue to tackle in our own business, our supply chain or in our entire industry.
What are these challenges?
for example, further innovation is 
needed to make quality garments entirely out of recycled fabrics from 4 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013collected garments. t oo much over -
time remains a common issue in many 
supplier factories. t here’s much more 
to do – especially when it comes to 
issues with systemic root causes in 
our industry and the countries that 
we operate in. 
And we all still have the pictures of 
the terrible accident in the r ana Plaza 
building in Bangladesh in our heads. At H&M, we did not have any produc -
tion in the building. f or many years, 
we do not allow for production in 
any multiple party buildings, but our 
entire industry has a responsibility to ensure that nothing like this will ever 
happen again.
What do you think is needed to create 
a sustainable fashion industry?
collaboration. As a big player, we need 
to be a good example and can achieve 
a lot. But lasting and systemic change 
cannot be made by one company alone. While working together with 
others may take more time, it shows 
greater impact. Political processes, in particular, can be slow and com -
plex, but they are needed to achieve systemic change and competition-neutral playing fields. We hope that Introduct Ion
CEO interview
by taking the lead in some key areas, we can speed up processes. o ne such 
case is actively engaging governments to support higher wages for garment workers and freedom of association. 
But we are also part of many global 
and local platforms and initiatives – for example Better Work, the un 
Global c ompact, the Better c otton 
Initiative and the s ustainable Apparel 
coalition. 
the latter now brings together more 
than a third of the world market for 
apparel with n Gos, academia and 
many others. t ogether we have devel -
oped a joint standard for how to meas -
ure and benchmark the sustainability of apparel and footwear products 
which is a major milestone towards 
greater sustainability in our entire industry. Beyond this, the idea is to 
translate this into consumer label -
ling that would allow also consumers to benchmark products, even across 
brands – an aim that I fully support.
Can fashion look good and be  
affordable and sustainable at the same time?
It can. And I think this is necessary 
for sustainable fashion to reach scale We take a long-term view on our  
business and investing in our sustain -
ability means investing in our future.in the marketplace. o ur c onscious c ollections 
already set a good example. And we are continuing 
working to make more sustainable fashion afford -
able and attractive to many people, every day and 
piece by piece. c reating a closed loop for textiles in 
which unwanted clothes can be recycled into new ones will not only minimize textile waste, but also significantly reduce the need for virgin resources 
and the impacts fashion has on our planet.
In turn, the price of a garment does not say much 
about where, how and by whom it has been pro -
duced. Affordable and expensive products can be made by the same workers for the same wage. t he 
question is how hard a brand works to improve 
conditions and what impact this has on people’s 
lives and their communities – no matter what price 
the customers pay. 
What opportunities do you see for H&M?
We take a long-term view on our business and investing in our sustainability means investing in our future. o ur customers are show -
ing great interest in sustainability 
and it’s growing. As we constantly 
work to strengthen our customer offering, adding sustainability value 
to our products and brands is an 
important contribution to this goal. It also helps position us as an attrac -
tive employer for the talent we need. obviously, minimizing resource 
use can help us cut costs – but more than that, we can see clear business 
benefits beyond this from our sustain -
ability work. f or example, greater 
stability in our production markets results in more reliable deliveries and 
smoother production. n ot at least, we 
have the opportunity to contribute to 
the development of the communities 
around us and better lives of millions of people.5 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
Introduct Ion
About H&M Conscious
Making more sustainable fashion 
choices available, affordable and 
attractive to as many people as pos -
sible. t his is our starting point. We 
want our colleagues to be proud of where they work and our customers 
to feel good about the fashion they buy. We can clearly see a growing 
interest in more sustainable fashion. 
this opens opportunities to further 
strengthen our customer offering by adding sustainability value to our 
products. In doing so, we are excited 
to take on the challenge of making fashion sustainable and sustainability 
fashionable. 
our planet is facing scarcity issues on 
many fronts and still too many people 
live in poverty. c lean water, climate 
change, textile waste and wages and 
overtime in supplier factories are some 
of the key challenges in our industry. 
We want to use our scale to bring 
about systemic change to our indus -
try and across our entire value chain. together with our colleagues, custom -
ers, stakeholders, business partners 
and peers, we have the opportunity to 
bring about massive change – all the way from improving the livelihood of a cotton farmer to lowering the impacts 
from washing and drying our clothes.
for us, sustainability is a word of 
action. A mission that is built on passion, long-term thinking and 
teamwork. Everything we do needs to 
be economically, socially and envi -
ronmentally sustainable. All highly 
interconnected. All equally important 
for our future growth.this is why we have created H&M 
conscious. With seven commitments 
at its heart, c onscious is the name for 
everything we do for a more sustain -
able fashion future. Hundreds of conscious Actions – big and small, 
short- and long-term – are dedicated 
to putting these commitments into 
practice. o ur c onscious c ollection, 
for example, is one of them. But there 
are many more.
this is our 12th sustainability report. 
We are excited and proud of the c on-
scious Actions we have taken and what 
we have achieved in this mission so far. 
But we also know that together with our entire industry, there is more to do. 
this report outlines our progress of 
some of our most important c onscious 
Actions. It has been prepared in accord -
ance with the GRI G4 guidelines (core) . 
Please see page 85 for further details on how we report. 
We hope that you will find the reading 
interesting and helpful and appreci -
ate your feedback to hendrik.alpen@
hm.com.OUR SEvEN COMMITMENTS
1. Provide fashion for conscious customers
2. choose and reward responsible partners
3. Be ethical
4. Be climate smart
5. reduce, reuse, recycle
6. use natural resources responsibly
7. strengthen communities6 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Introduct Ion
Key performance 2013
15.8%
of our cotton
now comes  
from more  
sustainable sources  
(2012: 11.4%).  
the goal is  
100% , 
by 2020 at the latest.clevercare   
label launched, providing guidance 
for conscious garment care.
fair l iving 
Wage  roadmap 
launched.894,975  
workers  
in Bangladesh and India 
educated about their 
rights since 2008.
first closed-loop  products 
launched, made with 20% recycled 
material from collected garments.3,047 tonnes   
of no longer wanted garments 
collected. t hat’s as much 
textile fabric as in about
15 million t -shirts.We used recycled  
polyester  equivalent to  9.5 
million  PEt bottles.
million fewer litres 
of water used in 
denim production .supplier 
sustainability 
performance increased   
to 77.8 out of 100 I coc scores  
(2012: 77.3, 2011: 76.5). 
Accord on f ire and 
Building s afety 
in Bangladesh signed.organic leather , vegetable-
tanned and from cows bred for 
organic meat production at s wedish 
farms, is the latest addition to our 
range of conscious materials.14% 
less electricity used per  
H&M (brand) store sqm since 2007.  
our goal is -20% by 2020. 50%
of our board members
 are women .3,555,687  
garments donated to  
charitable causes.
340
7 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
Introduct Ion
The impacts and challenges along our value chain
H&M c onscious adresses 
impacts, opportunities and 
challenges where they occur 
along our entire value chain. for those that are most closely 
related to our own operations, we have the ability to directly influence the impacts we have. 
For others, we make a differ -
ence, for example, by choos -
ing conscious raw materials or like-minded partners and by 
collaborating with others.
sustainability starts at the drawing 
board. We need to create fashion without 
compromising design, quality, price or 
sustainability. Knowing how our choices of materials and looks impact the envi -
ronment and people right from the start is the name of the game – just as minimis -
ing what ends up on the cutting floor.Working conditions and intense water and chemical use are concerns associated with 
processing raw materials (e.g. cotton). By 
making the right choices we can signifi -
cantly reduce these impacts. We need to 
use raw materials as efficiently as possible 
and we are working towards a closed loop. through our active involvement with the 
Better c otton Initiative (B cI), textile 
Exchange and un IcEf we support further 
improvements.From making yarn to final fabrics, there are concerns regarding water, chemicals and 
working conditions as well as greenhouse 
gas emissions. Generally speaking, we do not have direct business relationships with 
mills but we work with with organisations 
such as s olidaridad and nrdc to help mills 
improve their performance. And we have 
already started to integrate fabric and yarn 
mills that are involved in making about 20% of our products into our supplier audit 
system, aiming for 50% by 2015. DESIg N RA W  MATERIAl S fAbRIC  pRODUCTION
Influence  
HigHInfluence   
low  Influence   
low  climate impact  
0%climate impact  
12%climate impact  
36%Water impact 
0%Water impact 
87%Water impact 
6%
Climate and water impacts are based on the esti -
mated H&M value chain footprint from our total use 
of cotton, organic cotton, polyester and viscose in 
2011/2012. For the footprint analysis, primary and secondary data has been used and the principles of LCA-methodology has been applied. The remain -
ing 5% climate impacts result from packaging. The water footprint is based on WFN’s methodology and includes green, blue and grey water footprint. Devia -
tion from 100% due to rounding effects.8 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
TRANS pORT gARMENT  pRODUCTION SAlES USE
Influence  
mediumInfluence  
mediumInfluence  
HigH  Influence   
low  climate impact  
6%climate impact  
6%climate impact  
10%climate impact  
26%Water impact 
0%Water impact 
1%Water impact 
0%Water impact 
8%
transport represents approximately 6% 
of the greenhouse gas emissions in a 
garment’s lifecycle. By choosing the right 
modes of transport, we can reduce this 
impact further. And, as a big customer, 
we also use our influence to promote 
environmental consciousness at the transport companies we work with. Ensuring high social and environmental standards with all of our 872 suppliers can be a challenge especially in terms 
of complex industry-wide issues such as 
wages, overtime and safety. We not only 
monitor factory compliance but also train 
our suppliers and their workers, promote social dialogue and collaborate with 
organisations such as Better Work, the 
fair l abor Association ( flA) and the f air 
Wage n etwork.70% of our direct energy consumption occurs in our over 3,100 stores across 53 countries. So we need to work as effi -
ciently as possible and increasingly source renewable energy. As we grow, enter new 
markets and employ new colleagues we 
need to make sure that we live up to our values throughout. the way our customers do their washing 
represents about 26% of all the green -
house gas emissions in a garment’s life. 
Our challenge is to create affordable 
fashion that our customers will love from 
season to season and that is easy to care 
for in a low-impact way. And we need to inspire our customers towards conscious 
garment care and make it easy for them to 
not let fashion end up in landfills.Introduct Ion
The impacts and challenges along our value chain
9 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Introduct Ion
The impacts and challenges along our value chain
H&M around the world
*Countries with organic cotton or Better Cotton 
production for H&M. Cotton is our most important raw 
material. Conventional cotton is not currently trace -
able. By 2020 at the latest all cotton we use will come 
from fully traceable and more sustainable sources.
** Fabric suppliers involved in about 80% of our pro -
duction volume included.design
sales
new sales markets 2014
new sales markets 2015garment and fabric  
Production**r aw materials*10 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Introduct Ion
our Head of s ustainability reports 
directly to our c Eo and the respon -
sibility for the implementation of our 
sustainability strategy is held by our executive management team. We have 
a total of around 170 colleagues who 
work with sustainability as a core task. At our head office, our sustain -
ability team consists of more than 20 people responsible for developing global targets, reviewing progress, 
and encouraging and advising all rele -
vant departments on the development 
and implementation of prioritised 
conscious Actions. With this support, 
in turn each department is respon -
sible for developing and carrying out their Conscious Actions to fulfill our 
seven commitments. 
twice a year, our c Eo, cfo and Head 
of sustainability review the progress 
made. With the same frequency, our 
Head of s ustainability reports perfor -
mance against key sustainability indi -
cators to our Board of d irectors. Major 
sustainability issues influencing more 
than one department and conflicting interests are discussed in a decision-
making forum called the Green r oom 
with the involvement of our c Eo. over 100 people from our sustainability team operate from 19 locally-based 
production offices around the world. they work directly with our suppliers 
to support them in complying with our c ode of c onduct and help to make 
our supply chain more sustainable. 
50 “conscious c oordinators” work in 
our different departments and country 
offices supporting the implementation 
of our global sustainability strategy in 
their organisations.We have around 
170 colleagues  
who work with 
sustainability as a core task. How we are organised
Board of d irectors
central s ustainability 
departmentconscious  
coordinatorsother senior
executive functionsHead of  
sustainabilitycEoBi-annual
performance 
reporting11 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Introduct Ion
Joint forces for solutions
diversity and a multitude of voices 
lead to innovation. s takeholder 
insights help us prioritise the c on-
scious Actions we take and the 
resources we invest. t his is why a 
constant and open dialogue with  our stakeholders is so important to us.
throughout the year, we hold regular 
dialogues with our different stake -
holders.* We do this on a day-to-day 
basis, through regular roundtables 
on a global and local level, focused 
stakeholder reviews and strategy con -
sultations, dedicated surveys, media 
analyses and participation in several 
multi-stakeholder initiatives, as part of our strategic business intelligence, and 
through our wage advisory board.
But more than that, we seek to join 
forces with our stakeholders such as 
our peers, suppliers, n Gos and many 
others in order to tackle some of the major challenges in our industry – challenges that affect everyone along 
our value chain and that no company 
can solve on its own.
such collaboration can also help to 
increase the level of influence we have and promote systemic change. t o this 
end, we are involved in a number of 
local and global industry collabora -
tions, partnerships and multi-stake -
holder initiatives, such as the Better cotton Initiative (B cI), sustainable 
Apparel c oalition ( sAc), fair l abor 
Association ( flA), f air Wage n etwork 
(fWn), Better Work and the r oad-map to Zero d ischarge of Hazardous 
chemicals, to mention just a few. 
read what some of our stakeholders 
say about this report here  (p. 90).
>hm.com/memberships  
>hm.com/stakeholderdialogue
* Including customers, colleagues, communities, 
suppliers and their employees, industry peers, 
NGOs, IGOs, policymakers and investors.ACKNOW lEDgEMENTS
Here are some of the indices, rank -
ings and awards that assessed and 
recognised our sustainability per -
formance during the year.
– dow Jones s ustainability Index
– fts E4Good
– Member of Ethibel EX cEllEncE  
 Investments r egister
– World’s Most Ethical c ompanies 
– Global 100 l ist 
– Interbrand Global Green Brands 
– cd P’s Global 500 c limate  
 Performance l eadership Index 
– How does it stack up? 3rd place   
 sustainability reporting
– rank a Brand – Most sustainable  
 fashion retailer in the n etherlands
>hm.com/whatotherssay
12 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013 H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013 — coMMI tMEnt on E —
provide fashion for  
conscious customers
fashion is a great way to express 
your personality and a source of 
fun and inspiration. t hat said, 
it takes a lot of resources from planet 
earth to produce and also to care for 
our clothes. Making conscious choices 
can reduce these impacts significantly – without compromising aesthetics, 
quality or comfort. 
 We see it as part of our job to make 
similar conscious choices desirable 
and accessible to as many people as 
possible. t his also allows us to create 
added value in our customer offering 
– one that our customers are increas -
ingly looking for. 
We also want to make it easy for our 
customers to make the right choices when washing their buys at home. o r 
to drop off well-loved but no longer wanted clothes from any brand at 
an H&M (brand) store so we can give 
them a new life. By banding together, we can create a more sustainable 
fashion future. 
conscious fashion, however, is not 
just about our customers’ choices. We 
keep working hard to make all of our 
products more sustainable, piece by piece, all the way from the cotton farm 
up. Because, quite simply, it’s the right 
thing to do.13 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Performance overviewcommitment one – Provide Fashion F or c onscious c ustomers*Completed before publication of this report in spring 2014.Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – conscious P roducts & materials
conscious action 1.1 Increase our use of more sustainable materials year-to-year
conscious action 1.2 use only more sustainable cotton 2020
conscious action 1.3 Introduce the first closed-loop products*  2014
conscious action 1.4 Increase our use of certified leather year-to-year
conscious action 1.5 Permanently ban the use of angora wool  2013
conscious action 1.6 use only water-based glues for making our shoes 2020
conscious action 1.7 replace solvent-based polyurethane (Pu ) with water-based alternatives 2014
conscious action 1.8 Expand our criteria for " conscious" labelled products to include environmentally-preferable production processes 2014
focus – ins Pire customers
conscious action 1.9 Introduce conscious wash and care instructions* 2014
conscious action 1.10 Help set industry standard for measuring product sustainability ongoing
conscious action 1.11 roll out new sustainability training programme for all of our colleagues  2015
conscious action 1.12 Involve our customers and colleagues in our community work year-to-year14 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt on E – Prov IdE fA sHIon for c onsc Ious c usto MErs
Highlights 2013 from the life of blazer #0214443
this blazer is sold  
for Eur  129
/usd  149.
It is made of 83%  
organic cotton  
and 17% hemp .no chemical  
pesticides  
or fertilisers   
were used. 
You can wear it  
and love it  for  
many years, but  
if you don’t  
want it  
anymore you can  
leave it at any  
H&M store and  
we will give  
it a new life .15.8%  
of our cotton now comes from more  
sustainable sources  (2012: 11.4%).  
our goal is 100% by 2020 at the latest. 
11%  
of the materials we used to make our 
clothes were organic, recycled  or 
other innovative, more sustainable fabrics. clevercare label launched ,  
providing guidance for conscious  
garment care.
new sustainability training   
programme introduced.
organic leather , vegetable-tanned  
and from cows bred for  
organic meat production at s wedish 
farms, is the latest addition  to our  
 range of conscious materials .21%  
of our shoes are now made with  
water-based glues . our goal is  
to reach 100% by 2020.
49% of our leather shoes  are made  
with certified  leather (2012: 27%).15 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our strategy Our missionfocus: Conscious products and materials
We want to make the better choice 
easy and attractive. Piece by piece, 
this reduces the impact that fashion 
has on the planet. We want to help lift innovations to scale and together with 
our customers and our industry create 
a more sustainable fashion future. We are constantly on the lookout for innovative materials and processes 
that can make our products more 
sustainable. Products with the high -
est sustainability credentials are 
labeled with our Conscious  label. t his 
means that these products are made 
of at least 50% independently-certified 
more sustainable materials such as 
organic or recycled fabrics.* 
our goal is to increase the share of 
such fabrics in our total material 
use every year. With the c onscious 
Exclusive collection, we show that 
more sustainable fashion is ready 
for the red carpet. o ur coordinated 
conscious c ollections make this idea 
accessible to many customers and introduce innovations on a large scale. With our permanent c onscious range 
throughout all of our departments, we lift such innovations to become part 
of the standard offer across the board, 
all year long.
*Exception is made for recycled cotton fabric  
that comes from worn clothes. To ensure product 
quality at high standards, currently only about 
20% of recycled input material can be used – a challenge that we are working on as part of our goal to close the textile loop.coMMI tMEnt on E – Prov IdE fA sHIon for c onsc Ious c usto MErs
16 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Conscious products and materials
dEAdlInE MorE to do on  trAcK don E
year-to-yeardEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20201.1 i ncrease our use of more
sustainable materials1.2 u se only more sustainable 
cotton
 
for several years now, we have been 
one of the world’s biggest users of 
certified organic cotton. But we also use a wide range of other organic or recycled fabrics, as well as innova -
tive materials like t encel®. t hese 
represent 11% of our products’ total material use (7.3% organic materials, 0.3% recycled materials and 3.4% oth -
ers), up from 9.1% in 2012. o ur goal 
is to increase this share each year. these materials are gathered in our 
conscious materials list. A product consisting of at least 50% of materials from this list (20% for post-consumer recycled cotton) qualifies to be labelled with our " Conscious"  hang 
tag.* t he list is based on third-party 
sources such as the environmental benchmark for fibres created by the organisation MA dE-BY, and we 
regularly introduce new materials. this year, for example, we launched 
the first products made with organic leather and organic silk. By con -
stantly reviewing the list and driving demand for sustainable materials, we help lift them to scale and encourage further innovation. 
>hm.com/consciousmaterials
 
Of the different materials we use,  
cotton is the one we use the most.  
It is a natural, renewable fibre that 
offers many advantages, but also a number of concerns. f or example, 
the conventional cotton required to make an average t -shirt needs about 
11 bathtubs of water to grow. About 10% of all pesticides in the world are used in cotton production.* o rganic 
cotton, Better c otton and recycled 
cotton reduce these impacts signifi -
cantly. t his is why all of our cotton is 
to come from these sources by 2020 at the latest. d oing so also helps farmers 
and their communities improve their standard of living. We have doubled our share of more sustainable cotton in the last two years and are on target with 15.8% (2012: 11.4%) of our cotton being certified organic (10.8%), Better cotton (5.0%) or recycled (0.01%).
>hm.com/cotton
*Source: Pesticide Action NetworkcoMMI tMEnt on E – Prov IdE fA sHIon for c onsc Ious c usto MErs
% of more sustainable cotton  
of our total cotton use
2011 2012 20137.6%11.4%
7.8%  
orGAnIc 
cottonorGAnIc 
cotton3.6%  
BEttEr 
cotton15.8%
10.8% 
orGAnIc 
cotton5% 
BEttEr 
cotton
Please find an independent assurance  
statement related to GRI G4 EN1 here  (p. 88).*Products made with Better Cotton are not labelled with our "Conscious" hang tag as  
Better Cotton is currently not intended to be a product labelling scheme.11% 
of the materials we  
used were more  
sustainable
17 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Conscious products and materials
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20131.5 Permanently ban the  
use of angora wool
 
during 2013, we learned about  
unacceptable treatment of angora 
rabbits at c hinese angora farms. 
fur had been ripped from living 
animals, a practice that is strictly forbidden through our product policy. While we could verify that the angora farm in question did not supply any H&M suppliers, we decided to permanently ban the use of angora, as responsible angora farming proved difficult to guarantee. 
>hm.com/policiescoMMI tMEnt on E – Prov IdE fA sHIon for c onsc Ious c usto MErs
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20201.6 u se only water-based 
glues for making our shoes
 
solvent-based glues are often used 
in shoe production, but they can be 
harmful to workers in factories if not handled with sufficient protection. this is why for 2012, our goal was 
to produce 7 million pairs of shoes with safer alternative water-based glues instead. We exceeded that goal and therefore in 2013 we decided to make all of our shoes with water based glues only by 2020 at the latest. With a continued increase in volumes, this now goes for 21% of our shoes and with that we are well on our way towards this goal.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year1.4 i ncrease our use of  
certified leather
 
leather products can require intense 
chemical treatment that can harm the environment and workers. t his is 
why we joined the l eather Working 
Group ( lWG) in 2009. t anneries 
must comply with high environmen -
tal standards before being certified by the Group. We work to ensure that as much of the leather used to make our products as possible is either certified organic or comes from LWG-certified tanneries. In 2013, 49% (2012: 27%) of the leather shoes in our stores were made of such leather. o ur goal is to increase 
this share every year and thereby help to strengthen the currently limited market for certified leather. Additionally, our product policy commits us to amongst other things only using leather that comes as a by-product of meat production.
>leatherworkinggroup.comdEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E*
20141.3 Introduce the first closed-
loop products
 
last year, we introduced our global 
garment collecting programme (s. 
5.1, p. 62). t he short-term goal is 
to keep fashion from ending up in landfills and to save natural resources. u ltimately we want to 
create a closed loop for textiles in which no longer wanted clothes can be recycled into new treasures. We have now taken the next step in this mission and created the first prod -
ucts made with 20% recycled cotton derived from collected clothes. At the moment, higher amounts of recycled cotton are not possible without diminishing the quality of the new garment. A challenge that we are working on to overcome. 
>hm.com/longlivefashion
*Completed before publication of this 
report in spring 2014.% of leather shoes made with 
certified leather
2012 201349%
27%21% 
of our shoes 
are now 
made with 
water-based 
glues
18 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Conscious products and materialscoMMI tMEnt on E – Prov IdE fA sHIon for c onsc Ious c usto MErs
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2014
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20141.7 r eplace solvent-based 
polyurethane (P u) with 
water-based alternatives1.8 e xpand our criteria for 
“conscious” labelled products 
to include environmentally-
preferable production pro -
cesses
 
Handling solvent-based polyure -
thane (P u) requires workers to wear 
sufficient protective gear. We set 
out to gradually use water-based P u 
instead, which can be handled with less precaution. However, after sev -
eral trials, we had to conclude that the currently-available options could not deliver sufficient results and the required quality. While we still aim to make all applicable products with water-based P u in the long-run, our 
goal for 2014 is to develop two new products made with such materials to further improve its quality and scalability. 
currently, our " conscious" product 
label is limited to products made with more sustainable materials. this is a major driver for innovat -
ing and increasing the demand for these materials, often lifting them to scale. But we go beyond just the material choice to make our prod -
ucts more sustainable – for example by applying techniques also in the continued production process that reduce the use of water, energy or chemicals. t his is why we are cur -
rently working to expand the criteria for our " Conscious"  label to include 
the top edge of environmentally-preferable production processes and make these more transparent for our customers.
19 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our strategy Our missionfocus: Involve our customers and colleagues
We work on many fronts to make 
our products more sustainable. And 
we can extend this to an even big -
ger impact when we team up with 
our customers. f or example, 26% 
of the climate impacts of a garment occur when we wash and care for our clothes at home. s o we not only need 
to inspire and enable our customers to make conscious choices when shop -
ping for fashion. We also need to help them to care for their clothes so that 
they can have the longest possible 
longevity and less impact on climate and water. We started with our c onscious c ollec -
tion, introducing the concept of sus -
tainability in fashion to a wide range of customers and making it accessible and desirable for many people. o ver 
the past few years, we have gradually involved our customers in more and more of our c onscious Actions such 
as our All for c hildren campaign and 
other community projects. c ollecting 
unwanted clothes from our custom -
ers has taken us another step further. 
Moving forward, we will continue our 
work to make informed sustainable choices even easier and more trans -
parent and increasingly raise aware -
ness amongst our customers and colleagues. coMMI tMEnt on E – Prov IdE fA sHIon for c onsc Ious c usto MErs
20 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013commitment one – Provide Fashion F or c onscious c ustomers
Our Conscious Actions
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E*
2014dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
ongoing1.9 i ntroduce conscious wash 
and care instructionsfocus: Involve our customers and colleagues
 
did you know that reducing the 
washing temperature from 60 to 30 
degrees can save 50% of energy use? If not, you are certainly not alone. this is why we started discussions 
with Ginetex, the owner of the cur -
rent global standard care labelling system, already in 2011. o ur aim was 
to develop a common standard care label that encourages consumers to care for their clothes in a more con -
scious way. t he c levercare label is 
now available to all apparel brands globally. By spring 2014 all of our products should carry it.
>clevercare.info 
together with several of our peers, 
academia, n Gos and many oth -
ers, we are working together in the 
sustainable Apparel c oalition ( sAc) 
to build a common approach for measuring the sustainability per -
formance of apparel and footwear products through what is known as the Higg Index. t his is a major 
driver in improving the sustain -
ability performance of our entire industry. u ltimately, taking this 
another step further, the idea is to translate this index into a product labelling system, allowing custom -
ers to benchmark products across brands. While creating a meaningful and widely acknowledged labelling takes some time, we appreciate that the SAC is taking the first steps to turn this goal into reality. We fully support this ambition and contrib -
ute through our active participation in the s Ac. 
>apparelcoalition.org1.11 r oll out new sustain -
ability training programme 
for all of our colleagues1.10 help set industry stand -
ard for measuring product sustainability
 
We want everyone at H&M to feel 
proud of where they work and we want to help our colleagues to develop the knowledge and confi -
dence they need to deliver the best possible customer service. t his is 
why in 2012, we started developing a broader sustainability training lad -
der including extensive training for all of our colleagues and additional role-specific training courses for our buyers and designers, for example. the system has been implemented 
in most of our markets and we plan to cover all markets (excl. franchise) by 2015. o ur next step will be to 
follow up and ensure that all of our colleagues actually receive the right training and increase their aware -
ness. dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2015
 
for the past few years, we have 
teamed up with our customers to support our community work. through dedicated collections 
and campaigns we raise funds and awareness of important causes. f or 
example, our All for c hildren col -
lections have supported un IcEf’s dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year1.12 i nvolve our customers and 
colleagues in our community 
work
*Completed before publication of this 
report in spring 2014.  With our All for 
children collection  
we will help un IcEf to  
reach out to more  
than 1.7 million  
children  in India  
and Bangladesh
*Estimate based on gift card sales.
50% less energy use60° 30°work for children’s rights in India 
and Bangladesh. d uring our 2013 
holiday campaign, for every E ur 10/
usd 10 sale in gift cards, the H&M conscious f oundation provided one 
family in Bangladesh with access to clean water. t his way we were 
able raise money to support about 193,000* people through WaterAid. In 2013, the H&M c onscious f oun-
dation also asked H&M customers and colleagues to vote on which causes the foundation should sup -
port in the future. t he response was 
amazing with more than 100,000 votes.
21 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
garment production is often 
the first step in the industrial 
development  of emerging 
markets and has a major impact on 
these communities. t oday, some of 
the world’s biggest garment producers and also key sourcing markets for us are c hina, Bangladesh, India, c ambo -
dia and t urkey. It is a labour-intense 
industry that creates millions of jobs 
and substantial economic growth . 
the 1,946 factories in which our 872 
suppliers make our products employ 
close to 1.6 million people alone. 65% 
of them are women who often have become important income providers 
for their families. At the same time, 
human rights standards and environ -
mental awareness are less developed 
in many of these countries. 
While major improvements over the 
years are evident, too-long working 
hours and a lack of functioning indus -
trial relations are remaining common 
issues in many markets. Wages and 
workplace safety are key concerns, par -
ticularly in Bangladesh and c ambodia.
In a globalised world, it is not a ques -
tion for a company like ours whether 
to be present in emerging markets. It’s 
a matter of how we do it. We want to make sure that our presence results in 
better livelihood for garment work -
ers and positive development for their 
communities. 
respect for people and the environ -
ment is part of our values and we 
rely on stable sourcing markets with skilled workers for our future growth. 
We want to use our influence to 
promote better working conditions 
and environmental consciousness throughout our value chain. t his 
includes that we believe that all work -
ers in the textile industry should earn a fair living wage in decent working 
hours and that we actively contribute 
to achieving this. We stand behind the right to freedom of association 
and work systematically to strengthen 
industrial relations and collective bargaining. We use our influence on 
various levels – from working with 
the individual factories to promoting systemic change in entire countries. 
Working together with several differ -
ent stakeholders and partners is the 
key to lasting change.
As part of this, we commit to choose 
and reward responsible partners who 
share our values and who are will -
ing to work transparently with us to 
improve their social and environmen -
tal performance. We look for long-term partnerships with them and engage in strategic partnerships with 
the best ones. 
We set high standards for our sup -
pliers and regularly monitor how 
well they live up to them. l ikewise, 
in order for our partners to deliver 
their very best, we need to be a good 
partner ourselves. We provide train -
ing and support. And we reward good 
sustainability performance with 
better business. As a result, our 162 strategic partners make around 60% 
of our products. — coMMI tMEnt t Wo —
Choose and reward  
responsible partners22 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013 H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
performance overview
Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – su PPly chain management
conscious action 2.1 update our strategy for sustainable purchasing practices 2015
conscious action 2.2 reward good sustainability performance with better business year-to-year
conscious action 2.3 Ensure that 100% of new supplier factories in risk countries are screened and audited before placing orders year-to-year
conscious action 2.4 Audit our suppliers’ factories on their sustainability performance and related management systemsAt least every 
two years
conscious action 2.5 Go beyond monitoring and enable our suppliers through capacity building year-to-year
conscious action 2.6 develop and implement an updated method for assessing our suppliers’ sustainability performance 2015
conscious action 2.7 Integrate 2nd tier suppliers involved in at least 50% of our production volume into our audit programme 2015
conscious action 2.8 Extend our public supplier factory list to cover all of our 1st tier supplier factories* 2014
focus – im ProVed su PPlier P erformance 
conscious action 2.9 further increase the sustainability performance at all supplier factories year-to-year
conscious action 2.10Ensure that 100% of our supplier factories in Bangladesh undergo additional inspections as per the Accord  
on f ire and Building s afety in Bangladesh and provide their workers with additional safety training2014
conscious action 2.11 start training programme together with the Ethical t rading Initiative (E tI) to promote an end to s umangali schemes in Indian fabric mills 2014
conscious action 2.12 reinforce our ban on u zbek cotton 2013
focus – fair li Ving wage 
conscious action 2.13 develop our purchasing practices further to support our suppliers in paying a fair living wage and reducing overtime 2015
conscious action 2.14 set up model factories and implement the f air Wage method 2014
conscious action 2.15 Establish improved pay structures for paying fair living wages at all strategic suppliers 2018
conscious action 2.16 set advocacy plan to strategically engage governments on wage issues 2014
conscious action 2.17 Define needs and update strategy for extended skill development programme for garment workers 2014
conscious action 2.18 update our c ode of c onduct 2014
focus – industrial relations 
conscious action 2.19 launch joint project with the s wedish union I f Metall and s IdA to strengthen industrial relations in c ambodia 2013
conscious action 2.20 Expand social dialogue project in Bangladesh to reach all suppliers 2014/2018
conscious action 2.21 Provide workers and middle managers in supplier factories with training about their rights year-to-year
*Completed before publication of this report in spring 2014.23 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013fair l iving Wage  roadmap 
launched, enabling suppliers to pay 
higher wages to their workers.
894,975  
workers  in Bangladesh  
and India have been  educated about 
their rights  since 2008.
supplier sustainability  
performance increased 
to 77.8 out of 100 I coc  
scores (2012: 77.3, 2011: 76.5).
Accord on f ire and  
Building s afety 
in Bangladesh signed.performance overview
from the life of dress #0206798 Highlights 2013
3,121  audits conducted ,  
together with 11,549 worker interviews.
305,195  
workers and middle  
managers in our Bangladeshi supplier  
factories have received additional fire 
and safety training  since 2011.
Made in  Phnom Penh, 
cambodia , at the  
Gladpeer Garment  
factory l td.the factory belongs  
to one of our 162  
strategic partners  
and we have worked 
with them for more 
than 10 years .
We audited  
the factory 3  
times  during the  
year and found  
comparably good  
sustainability  
performance .* 
Major improvements  
have been made in recent 
years particularly in health 
& safety and workers’ 
basic rights . one major 
challenge that remains is to 
reduce overtime.their average 
income  is about 
15% higher  than 
the applicable minimum wage and 
almost twice the wage of a primary school teacher.5,216 people  work  
in this factory, 88%   
of them are women .
*(82 out of 100 in our ICoC-index). Workers in this factory  are 
represented  by inde -
pendent trade unions .coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
24 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our missionOur strategycoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Supply chain management
We have high expectations of our sup -
pliers in terms of quality, prices, lead 
times and sustainability. t hat said, 
creating a sustainable supply chain 
starts with us. We have experienced 
great improvements and over the 
years, we have developed advanced systems for managing our supply 
chain and supporting its sustain -
ability performance. And we work 
to improve it further every day. f or 
example, to make sure that we choose 
the right partners from the start and 
that we know exactly where and under what conditions production takes 
place. t hroughout a partnership, we 
need to enable, promote and reward 
constant improvement. We are aware 
of the limitations and challenges in 
standard audit procedures, and faked records or undeclared subcontract -
ing do, unfortunately, occur in our industry. We do not accept any such 
practices and work systematically to 
prevent this.2,100 colleagues in our 19 locally-based production offices maintain 
close relations with our suppliers. We 
focus on building strong, long-term relationships characterised by trust 
and transparency. We are clearly 
committed to working together with our suppliers on improvements rather 
than terminating relationships. o ur 
local teams support their performance 
in various areas throughout a part -
nership. r egular audits through our 
comprehensive f ull Audit Programme  
are one part of this. Additional inde -
pendent monitoring helps verify and 
improve our audit systems. But moni -
toring alone is not enough, which 
is why our strategy includes a wide 
range of additional elements such as 
supplier management system analyses  
that aim to address systematic causes 
of non-compliance. We also provide or 
facilitate training, technical assis -
tance and even joint investments. o ur 
strong presence gives us the opportu -
nity to understand each market and 
factory on an in-depth level and to 
integrate what we learn from them and other local stakeholders in our 
business decisions. We measure our 
suppliers’ sustainability performance 
25 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Supply chain management
no. of su PPliers and factories by region  
(1st tier) 2013
suPPl IErs ( All) 
872fActor IEs ( All) 
1,946
str AtEGI c 
PArtn Ers
162str AtEGI c 
fActor IEs  
726
fAr EAst  
392fAr EAst 
852sout H As IA 
546
EMEA 
548
sout H As IA 
276EMEA 
204
One supplier can own or subcontract to one or 
more factories. Strategic partners are our preferred suppliers. During the year, we have widened the 
scope for defining strategic factories and this now 
includes all factories that are owned or subcon -
tracted by our strategic partners.162  
strategic partners  
make around  60%   
of our products
through our Index c ode of c onduct 
(Icoc). Each factory and supplier 
is rated with an I coc score (max. 
score: 100). t hese scores are clearly 
communicated. t he Icoc is also a 
key integrated working tool in our 
purchasing processes which allows us to systematically reward suppliers for 
good sustainability performance with 
better business. o nly suppliers with 
the highest scores can become our strategic partners.
to enter such strategic partnerships, 
we need to be a good partner our -
selves. t his includes making sure that 
our purchasing practices  enable our 
suppliers to live up to our demands 
and deliver their very best to us, our 
customers, their workers and their communities. u ltimately, this sup -
ports greater stability and reliability in our sourcing.
A more sustainable supply chain means greater stability 
and reliability in our sourcing.  Helena Helmersson, Head of Sustainability26 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Supply chain management
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year2.3 e nsure that 100% of new 
supplier factories in risk 
countries are screened and 
audited before placing orders
As part of our sourcing strategy, we 
only place orders with suppliers and in factories that sign our c ode of 
conduct. Before placing any orders, 
we conduct an initial screening. If they pass, our auditors conduct an in-depth head audit to assess if the factory lives up to our minimum long-term capacity planning up to five years ahead. Out of our 872 suppliers, currently 162 strategic partners (19%) make around 60% of our products. o n average, we work 
with each supplier since more than five years.
>hm.com/supplierrelations
icoc weighed
2012 201391%   
of our suppliers  
say they are  
satisfied  with 
business relations 
with H&MOur Conscious Actions
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2016dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year2.1 u pdate our strategy for 
sustainable purchasing  
practices2.2 r eward good  
sustain ability performance with better business
We need to ensure that our purchas -
ing practices enable our suppliers to 
live up to our demands, for example, by providing reasonable lead times, fair pricing, timely payments and transparent communication. f rom 
close dialogue with our suppliers as well as anonymous surveys, we know that they see us as a good business partner and appreciate our purchas -
ing practices. But as we tackle com -
plex challenges in our industry such as fair living wages and overtime, we 
will update our current purchasing practices (see 2.13, p. 34).
>hm.com/responsiblepurchasingIn order to sustain and incentivise 
good sustainability performance, we reward our suppliers with what they appreciate most – long-term business relations and growth opportunities. t o measure how well 
we perform against this ambition, we compare the I coc scores of our 
supplier factories weighed by their order volume with scores weighted against the available capacity in our entire factory base. t he data 
confirms that we place more and bigger orders with better performing factories before others. o ur aim is 
to maintain this year-to-year. t his 
is why we integrated I coc scores in 
our overall supplier grading already some years ago, meaning that only those suppliers who demonstrate the best sustainability performance can become strategic partners. such strategic partnerships provide 
mutual benefits, for example, by securing stable business through 
BY su PPlIEr cAPA cItYBY ord Er volu MErequirements and shows good poten -
tial to further improve their sustain -
ability performance. o nly after our 
auditors’ approval can orders be placed (exceptions are made only to factories located in low-risk E u 
markets). t his is the case whether 
a factory is owned directly by one of our suppliers or is subcontracted. In 2013, 96% of all our supplier factories were audited before an order was placed. t he remaining 4% were 
located in low risk markets. d uring 
the year, we audited 534 potential new supplier factories and of these 20% were not approved. 
>hm.com/monitoring
77.3 77.580.5
78.827 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 20133.8
3.4coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Supply chain management
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
at least every 
two years 2.4 a udit our suppliers’ fac -
tories on their sustain  ability 
performance and related 
management systems 
our f ull Audit Programme consists 
of more than 200 questions  and 
includes a visual inspection of the 
factory, management interviews, document checks and interviews with workers. 73% of our head audits were unannounced (2012: 66%). our f ull Audit Programme covers 
all of our 1st tier supplier factories, no matter if they are directly owned or subcontracted by our suppliers, and increasingly also suppliers of non-commercial goods and 2nd tier suppliers such as fabric or yarn mills. All in all, we performed a total of 3,121 audits during 2013. 
As a minimum, each 1st tier factory 
is audited every two years with up to three follow-up audits conducted in between. 82% were audited at least once during 2013 only. t he audit 
frequency varies largely depending on risks in the market and individual factory performance. In 2013, each active 1st tier factory was audited 1.3 times on average. 
>hm.com/monitoring
 82%
of our supplier 
factories were audited   
during the year
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year2.5 g o beyond monitoring 
and enable our suppliers 
through capacity building
Monitoring our suppliers is impor -
tant, but not enough to create 
lasting change. t his is why we are 
investing substantial resources to help them improve their manage -
ment systems and facilitate training for workers and management in order to strengthen their in-house sustainability capacities. o ur focus 
is on our strategic partners where we have stronger influence and bigger impact. d uring 2013, we conducted 
1,929 management system analyses. together with about 2,194 other 
activities (such as training sessions and workshops) and our audits, each factory was subject to an average of 3.4 (strategic factories 3.8) activities aiming to improve their sustain -
ability.
>hm.com/beyondmonitoringaVerage n o. of sustainability
acti Vities (strategic V s. all 
factories)
strategic factories All factoriesdEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20152.6 develop and implement an 
updated method for assessing 
our suppliers’ sustainability 
performance
With over 15 years of experience 
in supplier monitoring, we have developed in-depth knowledge on how to assess the sustainability performance of our supply chain. now it’s time to take it to the next 
level. In order to prepare to extend the scope of our assessments deeper into our value chain and in response to increasing maturity amongst many suppliers, we are developing an updated method that aligns our full Audit Programme with its sev -
eral complements. t his will further 
advance our data management and risk assessments, strengthen sup -
plier ownership and prepare us for the integration of new tools such as the HIGG Index .suPPlIEr fActor IEs2nd t IEr su PPlIErsnon-co MME rcIAl Goods su PPlIErsno. of audits 2013
fla V erifications: 3tot Al AudIts
3,121
111140
2,870
HEAd 
AudIts 
1,207
8057
1,070follo W-u P 
AudIts 
1,914
3183
1,800
In previous years the number of audits 
was reported based on factories registered 
as active by the end of the year. This year, 
the number of audits includes all audits that we conducted during the year regard -
less of factory status by the end of the year.Our Conscious Actions28 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Supply chain management
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20152.7 i ntegrate 2nd tier suppli -
ers involved in at least 50% of 
our production volume into 
our audit programme
As we aim to take a holistic, value-
chain approach, we are progressing quickly with extending our knowl -
edge and influence over 2nd tier sup -
pliers such as fabric and yarn mills. our l ifecycle Assessments show 
that fabric production represents major environmental impacts. f or 
example, 36% of the climate impact in a garment’s lifecycle occur at this stage of our value chain. f or several 
years, we have worked for example through our mill development pro -
gramme  to help mills reduce these 
impacts. d uring 2013, we started 
to request information about the fabric and yarn source for each order placed. In this way we have so far been able to map the mills involved in about 80% of our production vol -
ume and are now integrating these into our audit programme and also into our supplier relationship man -
agement strategy . our aim is to cover mills involved in at least 50% of our production volume by 2015. We have already started auditing mills using our l imited Audit Programme and 
have covered those involved in about 20% of our production volume so far. 
*Completed in 2014 before the release of this report.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE*
20142.8 e xpand our public  
supplier factory list to cover 
100% of 1st tier supplier  
factories
transparency is key to our supply 
chain management. We also believe 
that a transparent supply chain can be a catalyst for positive change. And it’s a good way to incentivise our suppliers for the progress they make during our partnership. l ast 
year, we published our supplier fac -
tory list, representing about 95% of our production volume. n ow we are 
taking this even further by expand -
ing the list to include all of our 1st tier supplier factories – covering 100% of our production volume, now including even those factories with whom we have just started work -
ing. We hope that this will continue to promote transparency in our industry. 
>hm.com/supplierlist
We are now auditing 2nd  
tier suppliers  involved  
in making about  
20% of our products
Our Conscious Actions29 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our missionOur strategycoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Improved supplier performance
ultimately, our supply chain management should 
help our suppliers to further improve their perfor -
mance and create a positive impact for the livelihood 
of their about 1.6 million workers and their com -
munities. We have seen great improvements over 
the years in many areas. c hild labour, for example, 
has been almost entirely eradicated from the export 
garment industry. But only few suppliers fully comply 
with our c ode of c onduct. Major challenges remain -
ing concern health and safety, excessive overtime, 
wages, freedom of association and industrial rela -
tions. Other specific local challenges in some of our 
key sourcing markets include so-called s umangali 
schemes, a form of forced labour mainly present in 
Indian fabric mills, fire and building safety particu -
larly in Bangladesh and workers’ health and social dialogue in c ambodia. All of these require holistic 
solutions – from the factory level to systemic change 
in the concerned societies and our entire industry. 
While our supply chain management systems can support improvements, we need to continue to col -
laborate closely with our suppliers, governments, industry peers, n Gos, unions and many parties to 
jointly achieve lasting change.supported by strong and constantly 
evolving supply chain management 
systems, we work to strengthen our 
suppliers’ ownership of their sustain -
ability performance. We focus on 
strategic factories where we have the 
strongest impact. By being a good partner ourselves, setting out clear 
demands and providing training 
and support where needed, we want to enable our suppliers to take this ownership and improve their perfor -
mance. t hrough regular monitoring, 
we measure how well they do, commu -
nicate the results, set recommenda -
tions and provide additional support where needed. By rewarding well-performing suppliers with better busi -
ness, we deliver an extra business case for sustainability. With the disclosure of our supplier list, we aim to further 
strengthen the sustainability owner -
ship of our suppliers’ performance and incentivise further improve -
ments. l ikewise, we also encourage 
our suppliers to report on their social and environmental impacts publicly 
and get involved with their stakehold -
ers directly.
30 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious ActionscoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Improved supplier performance
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
year-to-year2.9 f urther increase the  
sustainability performance  
at all supplier factories 
We measure each supplier fac -
tory’s sustainability performance 
through our I coc index. o ur aim is 
to increase the average I coc index 
across our entire supplier factory base year-to-year. t his is despite 
the fact that we constantly improve our auditing methods and increase demands. Also, adding new factories normally has a negative effect on the total average, as factories usually improve their scores during their partnership with us. We achieved this goal in 2013 with I coc scores 
increasing to 77.8 (max. score: 100, 2012: 77.3, 2011: 76.5). You can find a detailed breakdown of our supplier factories’ compliance with all of the over 200 items from our f ull Audit 
Programme questionnaire here .dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20142.10 e nsure that 100% of our 
supplier factories in b angla -
desh undergo additional 
inspections as per the a ccord 
on f ire and b uilding s afety 
in b angladesh and provide 
their workers with additional 
safety training
the collapse of the r ana Plaza build -
ing in d haka that left more than 1,100 
people dead was the worst industrial 
accident in the history of Bangladesh and probably the entire garment industry. While we had never had any production in the building, this disaster underlines the importance of the work we already started several years ago to improve fire- and build -
ing safety in the country. In 2009, we introduced requirements not to source from any factories located in buildings that are shared between several parties, so that the factory can have full control of building safety. In 2011, we introduced a training programme to increase fire-safety awareness amongst suppliers and their employees using short films. so far, 305,195 workers and middle 
managers in our Bangladeshi supplier factories have been trained. t here 
is currently an ongoing dialogue to discuss integrating such training into the Accord to achieve a wider spread throughout the entire country. following a study we commissioned 
in 2011 to identify root causes of fire safety risks in Bangladesh, all of our suppliers were requested to assess the electrical installations in their factories and we recommended a set of hands-on actions to the authorities in Bangladesh. 
H&M was the first company to sign 
the Accord on f ire and Building 
safety  in its updated version initi -
ated by IndustriA ll and un I Global 
union. By the end of the year, over 100 
brands had signed. t his means we 
are, amongst other things, committed to ensuring that all of our supplier factories in Bangladesh undergo addi -
tional independent fire and building safety inspections by the end of 2014. In early 2014, the Accord representa -
tives agreed with the Bangladeshi government and the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker s afety on a joint 
standard for conducting these inspec -
tions. We believe that the Accord is a Progress in factory
sustainability P erformance  
(in ic oc scores)
Data now covers all active and approved 
supplier factories by the end of FY 2013 
(not only comparable factories as in 
previous year). You can find a detailed breakdown of compliance with all items from our audit protocol at hm.com/sup -
pliercomplianceindetail. Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI AF14 here  (p. 88).2011 2012 201376.577.7
77.379.1
77.880.1strAtEGI c fActor IEs
All f Actor IEscomplementary and pragmatic step 
towards lasting change by aligning a broad coalition of brands with other key players such as the Bangladeshi Government, industry associations and trade unions, as well as an important contribution to continued positive change in Bangladesh. 
>about.hm.com  
>bangladeshaccord.org305,195 
workers and middle managers  
in our Bangladeshi supplier factories  
have received additional fire  
and safety training  since 2011
 31 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: Improved supplier performance
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
2014dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20132.11 s tart training programme 
together with the e thical 
trading i nitiative ( eti) to 
promote an end to s umangali 
schemes in i ndian fabric mills2.12 r einforce our ban on 
uzbek cotton
sumangali schemes are a form of 
forced labour where young women 
are sent from their villages to work particularly in spinning mills in India. In return for their labour, the women and their families are prom -
ised a dowry at the end of a three-year contract. We view s umangali 
schemes as an absolutely unac -
ceptable form of forced labour. t he 
challenge is that such schemes occur mainly in spinning mills where we normally do not have direct contrac -
tual influence. This is why, in 2012, we decided to join a three-year, multi-stakeholder project run by the Ethical t rading Initiative (E tI). As 
part of this collaboration, E tI has 
now started a training programme in collaboration with Business for social r esponsibility’s (B sr) HE r-
project that initially aims to improve worker-management dialogue start -In 2011, together with about 60 other brands and n Gos, we signed a 
pledge facilitated by the r esponsible 
sourcing n etwork ( rsn ) commit -
ting us to not knowingly source cotton from u zbekistan due to 
continued forced child labour in its cotton industry. f ollowing this, in 
early 2013 we reinforced our ban on uzbek cotton by requiring all sup -
pliers to sign a mandatory commit -
ment to neither directly or indirectly source any such cotton as a require -
ment to remain our supplier. d uring 
2013, we also began to apply this commitment to some of the first fab -
ric mills that we started to include in our audit programme, which increases the impact upstream our value chain. ing in five mills in 2014 and extend -
ing to 15 mills by 2015.
>ethicaltrade.org  
>HERproject.org
We are  
committed  
to not know -
ingly source  
cotton from  Uzbekistan.
Our Conscious Actions32 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our missioncoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: f air living wages
there is no question that every  
garment worker should earn enough 
to live on. In order to ensure this 
throughout our industry and in all of our sourcing markets, further sys -
temic change is needed. t he chal -
lenges along the way are diverse and complex. In many markets, workers 
have limited possibilities to negoti -
ate wages collectively. We think that 
such negotiations are the best way 
to define wages. Where, for example, 
legal minimum wages or the systems to define them are not yet sufficient, 
we need to find ways in the meantime 
to ensure that individual factories can pay fair living wages to their workers 
without putting their business and 
jobs at risk. f actories often work for 
many different brands. In a situation 
where only one or a few of the brands 
request fair living wages, it still needs to be ensured that the wage of a fac -
tory worker does not depend on his or her employer’s customers. Income equality also needs to be seen in rela -
tion to other sectors – for example, we need to consider the consequences that might arise for a community 
where garment workers start to earn 
more than teachers. And of course increasing wages in the garment 
sector should contribute to a natural 
growth in the community without risking the competitiveness of entire 
countries. t he challenges are complex 
but the aim is clear: A fair living wage 
in the textile industry.
gOvERNMENTS
continue to engage  
governments 
on wages and freedom 
of association.fACTOR y 
EMpl OyEES
By 2013, launch Industrial r elation 
project in c ambodia. By 2014, expand 
social d ialogue project in Bangladesh
to 15% of H&M suppliers, aiming for
 100% by 2018.
fA IR  
lIvINg 
WA gE S
in textile 
industry
H&M
continuously make sure that the 
prices we pay our suppliers enable 
them to pay fair living wages to their 
workers. By 2015, develop additional 
tools to systematically ensure this also 
when wages increase in the future.fACTOR y O WNERS
By 2014, implement f air Wage Method in 
3 model factories and evaluate outcome.
By 2018, all of H&M’s strategic suppliers
should have improved pay structures for 
fair living wages in place. By then, this 
will reach around 850,000 workers.33 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our strategycoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: f air living wages
We developed our f air l iving Wage 
roadmap based on the f air Wage 
network’s methodology and in close 
consultation with a variety of stake -
holders in our wage advisory board. 
A fair living wage, at the very least 
covering workers’ basic needs, should be enabled through our purchas -
ing practices, and based on a skilled workforce that has their wages annually reviewed and negotiated on the factory level or broader level, 
involving democratically-elected trade 
unions or worker representatives. to achieve this, we need to work on 
several ends. We need to ensure that our purchasing practices support our suppliers in implementing fair living 
wages. We will work with our suppli -
ers to deliver best practice examples 
and gradually scale these up. We are 
focusing on our strategic suppliers to 
start and our goal is that all of them 
should have improved pay structures 
for fair living wages in place by 2018 at the latest (in existing as well as 
potential future sourcing markets). 
We help to strengthen worker involve -
ment and their right to collective bar -
gaining. We also continue to engage governments and other concerned stakeholders to promote systemic change across the concerned commu -
nities and our entire industry. With 
this holistic approach covering H&M, 
factory owners, factory employees and governments, we are taking the 
wage issue to the next level within the 
fashion industry.
>hm.com/fairlivingwage
H&M’s initiative to create a wage policy for suppliers  
in their production countries is an important step to 
resolve one of the major problems in the textile and  
clothing industry, how to find models for decisions on fair 
living wages and stable conditions in the labour market.   
Bengt Johansson, CSR ambassador at the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs
monthly a Verage wages V s. a PPlicable minimum wages 2012/2013
MInIMuM WAGEAvErAGE  WAGE
Data based on audit results from randomly selected factories in each country/region. Basic wages applicable for 
machine operators (usually the largest group of employees), excl. overtime. In China, piece-rate systems often apply, 
hence wage data for China is not fully comparable. Figures are converted to USD using comparable exchange rates.2012
Ind IA 
(BAnGA- 
lor E)usd 
91usd 
100
2012
cHI nA 
(GuAnG- 
donG   
Prov IncE)usd 
176usd  
389
2012
turKEYusd 
374usd 
476
2012
cAMB odIAusd 
83usd 
90
2012
BAnGlA- 
dEsHusd 
61
usd 
42
2013
Ind IA 
(BAnGA- 
lor E)usd 
91usd 
115
2013
turKEYusd 
407usd 
523
2013
BAnGlA- 
dEsHusd 
64
usd 
42
2013
cAMB odIAusd 
99
usd 
97
2013
cHI nA 
(GuAnG- 
don G  
Prov IncE)usd 
183usd 
38534 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious ActionscoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: f air living wages
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
2015dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20142.13 d evelop our purchasing 
practices to further support 
our suppliers in paying a fair 
living wage and reducing 
overtime2.14 s et up model factories 
and implement the f air w age 
method
We will continue to take our respon -
sibility in making sure that the 
prices we pay our suppliers enable them to pay fair living wages to their workers. t his remains the case also 
where wages increase in the future and we will further develop our tools to secure this systematically. Addi -
tionally, we will continue to improve our purchasing planning tools to reduce production peaks and thereby help our suppliers to better plan their capacity and reduce over -
time. t his alone will not be enough 
to ensure fair living wages, but it will give our suppliers additional confidence in implementing the Fair Wage method (s. 2.15). We will pilot the implementation of the f air Wage method in three 
model factories. t hese are care -
fully selected strategic partners with whom we work very closely to set best practice examples for our industry. t he aim is to showcase 
that leadership in sustainability, including paying a fair living wage, can go well together with best busi -
ness performance. f rom there, we 
will then work to gradually scale up the implementation, focusing first on our strategic suppliers. t wo of these 
model factories are located in Bang -
ladesh, and one is in c ambodia.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20182.15 e stablish improved pay 
structures for fair living wages 
at all strategic suppliers
In 2011, we joined the f air Wage 
network and as part of this, the f air 
labour Association ( flA) conducted 
independent assessments of pay 
structures in about 200 of our sup -
plier factories. After implementing the f air Wage method in selected 
model factories (s. 2.14), our goal is for all of our strategic supplier factories to have improved pay structures for fair living wages in place by 2018 at the latest. This affects around 850,000 textile workers. s uch pay 
structures build on implementing the f air Wage method. d eveloped by 
the Fair Wage Network, this defines twelve dimensions of wages that need to be in place to make a fair living wage. t his includes, for example, that 
wages need to cover workers’ basic needs and should be negotiated in a fair process and that the workers need to be paid according to their skills.
>hm.com/fairlivingwage  
>fair-wage.com
35 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
focus: f air living wages
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20142.16 s et advocacy plan to 
strategically engage govern -
ments on wage issues
systemic change cannot be achieved 
by one company alone. t he aim must 
be for all garment workers in the 
industry – not just in our supplier factories – to earn a fair living wage. In order to ensure income equal -
ity and competition-neutral playing fields, the concerned governments need to strengthen the required legal frameworks such as regular wage revisions and functioning industrial relations. In recent years we have been in contact with the Bangladeshi Government and requested increases in minimum wages and systematic minimum wage revisions. In 2013, our c Eo met with the c ambo -
dian Prime Minister to discuss the importance of annual wage revisions and industrial relations. o ur aim 
is to continue this engagement and further develop it as an integral part of our fair living wage strategy.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20142.17 Define needs and update 
strategy for extended skill 
development programme for 
garment workers
skills training is key for workers to 
increase their wages – and it is also 
essential for a developing garment industry and ultimately, also our future growth. d uring 2014 we will 
evaluate and define the need for skill development market by market and based on this analysis, update our strategy and develop the necessary programmes. In 2013, we already introduced a vocational training programme in Bangladesh together with s IdA and the International 
labor o rganisation (I lo). this 
programme aims to train 5,000 students by 2016 and to ensure that they start their careers at a wage level that reflects their skills.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20142.18 u pdate our c ode of 
conduct
during 2014, we will launch 
an updated c ode of c onduct to 
amongst other things more clearly reflect our mission towards a fair living wage.
>hm.com/codeofconduct
Regular minimum  
wage revisions are crucial  
for developing a mature  garment industry.
Our Conscious Actions36 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our strategy Our missionfocus: Industrial relationscoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
We believe that functioning industrial 
relations and collective bargaining 
are key to achieving fair living wages 
and good working conditions in our supply chain, but also to creating sta -
ble sourcing markets and sustainable economic growth in these countries. our c ode of c onduct requires that 
all of our suppliers respect the right to freedom of association. However, many markets lack sufficient systems. 
for example, in c hina and v ietnam, 
freedom of association is restricted 
by law, whereas in c ambodia, union 
representation is common but nego -
tiations often result in conflicts that sometimes even end in violence. 
While we are realistic about the fact 
that there is a long way to go until fair and functioning industrial relations 
processes are in place throughout, 
this is the ultimate aim.to achieve this, we are addressing 
the issue with our supplier factories 
as well as on a political and industry 
level. t hrough our c ode of c onduct, we 
are requiring the right to freedom of 
association. In 2011, we made a major 
shift in the way we assess compliance with this requirement in our audit 
programme. Instead of asking if a 
worker’s right to freedom of association is respected, we now measure if trade 
unions are actually in place. f actories 
with trade union representation or a 
collective bargaining agreement are 
now rewarded with higher I coc scores. 
Where unionisation is restricted by 
law or where systems are insufficient, 
we have started to empower workers 
with awareness about their rights at work and to help our suppliers establish 
functioning and democratically-elected 
workplace representation. t he aim is 
that these will gradually develop into 
increasingly mature collective-bargain -
ing systems. Beyond the factory level, 
we work with governments and other 
partners such as unions to promote the 
required legal frameworks and help to mature the concept of solution-oriented 
negotiations amongst both employers 
and unions.H&M
DRIv ESH&M
REQUIRESthe right to 
collective bargaining
Peaceful conflict 
resolution
structures for social dialogue 
between employers and employees
Employee and employer awareness 
of workers’ rights and responsibilities
Effective legal base37 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Industrial relationscoMMI tMEnt t Wo – c Hoos E And r EWA rd r EsPons IBlE PA rtn Ers
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
year-to-yeardEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE
20182.19 l aunch joint project with 
swedish union if m etall and 
sida to strengthen industrial 
relations in c ambodia2.21 Provide workers and 
middle managers in supplier 
factories with training about 
their rights2.20 e xpand social dialogue 
project in b angladesh to reach 
all suppliers
unlike many other emerging mar -
kets, c ambodia has a long history 
of collective bargaining and trade 
union representation. t he vast 
majority of our supplier factories in the country has trade unions in place. However, negotiations in the sector are often confrontational, resulting in major conflicts and even violence. t ogether with the s wedish 
trade union I f Metall and the s wed-
ish International c ooperation d evel-
opment Agency s ida we have now 
started a unique project that will run through 2014 to 2016. t he aim is 
to increase the number of collective bargaining agreements by educating trade unions as well as employers on the importance of solution-oriented, fair negotiations. We hope that the project can help to support greater stability in the market.In 2008, we teamed up with suppli -
ers and local n Gos in Bangladesh 
to develop a series of short films and training packages in order to increase awareness of workers’ rights. In 2013, we expanded this programme to India. 894,975 work -
ers and middle managers have been trained since the start of the project in 2008. We plan to scale up these programmes further.In 2011, we launched a social dialogue project in Bangladesh. We selected five factories to set best practice examples on democratic workplace representation. s ince 
then, we have provided the manage -
ment and workers with compre -
hensive training through external experts which finally led to the free election of workplace committees, that are in an active dialogue with management. We now aim to expand this project and cover 15% of our Bangladeshi suppliers by 2014, and 100% by 2018. 
no. of workers and middle managers educated 
about their rights P er year
BAnGlAdEsHIndIA
28,807169,071
115,195128,958 128,79042,497
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008281,657894,975  
workers have been  
educated about their 
rights since 2008H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 201338 of 92being ethical is about doing 
the right thing. t his means 
respecting human rights, tak -
ing a clear stand against corruption and embracing diversity and inclu -
sion. We interact with millions of people across various countries and cultures. In any of these relations, as 
a minimum, we need to comply with 
applicable laws. But much more than that, whether you are a customer, col -
league, business partner or any other 
stakeholder, we believe that mutual 
respect, integrity, transparency and honesty are essential to our busi -
ness. o ur commitment to be ethical 
throughout our operations is firmly rooted in our corporate values.
 — coMMI tMEnt tHrEE —
be  
ethical39 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – anti -corru Ption
conscious action 3.1 detect violations of our c ode of Ethics year-to-year
conscious action 3.2 Ensure that all of our concerned colleagues have signed our c ode of Ethics and received dedicated training year-to-year
conscious action 3.3 Ensure that all of of our commercial goods suppliers have signed our c ode of Ethics year-to-year
conscious action 3.4 update and implement additional training for managers 2014
focus – em Ployer of choice
conscious action 3.5 set baseline for target to increase employee satisfaction 2014
conscious action 3.6 Ensure good workplace relations and dialogue with our colleagues and their representatives year-to-year
conscious action 3.7 reach all of our colleagues with our learning management system “G roW” 2014
focus – human rights
conscious action 3.8 Ensure compliance with our discrimination and equality and harassment policies year-to-year
conscious action 3.9 Assess human rights risks and impacts before entering new market (production and sales) year-to-year
conscious action 3.10 Promote increased awareness and respect for human rights and equality by partnering with c ivil r ights d efenders 2016
focus – d iVersity and e Quality
conscious action 3.11 Ensure compliance with our diversity policy year-to-year
conscious action 3.12 complete “ the Battle of the n umbers” project 2013
focus – res Ponsible marketing
conscious action 3.13 Ensure compliance with our advertising policy year-to-year
conscious action 3.14 Ensure compliance with our privacy policies year-to-year40 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
coMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
performance overview
Highlights 2013 from the life of shirt #0222419
50% 
of our board members  
are wome n.
un Guiding Principles  
on Business and 
Human r ights
 adopted. 
A total of 243,486 hours 
of training  registered in our learning 
management system GroW.56%   
of our colleagues globally covered  
by collective bargaining  
agreements .this shirt has been  
sold at H&M stores  
in 53 countries .
for example, 
73%  of our 
managers are 
women .More than
116,000 people
at H&M work to bring
this shirt and other
fashion to you.
We see their
diversity
of any kind as  
a strong asset.Wherever our  products are sold 
or made, we apply 
zero tolerance
to corruption .
We teamed up with c ivil r ights  
defenders to support human rights  
and equality  globally.41 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
focus: Anti-corruption
Our mission Our strategy
We have a zero tolerance policy on 
corruption. Mutual trust and trans -
parency are important and expected in all of our relationships, including those with our colleagues and business 
partners. c orruption is a challenge in 
most of our production countries and 
also in many sales markets. t his is 
why we take a proactive approach. We want to prevent any issues through training and by creating a strong awareness amongst both our col -
leagues and suppliers. We make it a rule to act with integrity at all times. Based on the most strin -
gent regulations regarding corrup -
tion, our c ode of Ethics outlines our 
commitment to compliance with all 
rules and regulations in each country 
where we operate and to not accept or facilitate any form of corruption. 
In early 2013, we became a c orporate 
supporter Member of t ransparency 
International s weden. We conduct 
regular risk assessments for all of our business units and for our suppliers. 
Based on these, the c ode applies to 
all of our suppliers and colleagues 
who are in regular contact with any 
external business partners. We have made it mandatory for all of these to 
sign the code, together with dedicated 
training. We have internal audit sys -
tems and a whistleblowing procedure 
in place whereby potential breaches 
can be reported confidentially, and 
we follow up on reported incidents 
thoroughly. We focus on achieving the greatest possible transparency in all 
of our business relations to thereby 
detect any non-compliance.
>hm.com/anticorruption
42 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yeardEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2014dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yearcoMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
focus: Anti-corruption
Our Conscious Actions
3.1 d etect violations of our 
code of e thics3.2 e nsure that all of our 
concerned colleagues have 
signed our c ode of e thics and 
received dedicated training 3.3. e nsure that all of our 
commercial goods suppliers have signed our c ode of e thics3.4 u pdate and implement  
additional training for  managers
rather than aiming for zero cases 
on paper, our goal is to achieve full 
transparency and detect the cases where our c ode of Ethics has been 
violated. In 2013, we investigated 36 incidents of potential non-compliance. t welve of these led 
to terminations and six to formal written warnings (all concerning employees). Most cases concerned theft, request for money or favours and conflict of interest. 
our target is to ensure that all of 
our colleagues who are in regular contact with external business partners sign the c ode of Ethics 
and receive dedicated training. By 2013, 100% of them had signed the code. t he training rate increased 
to 60% (2012: 47%). While this is a great step forward, we have not yet fully reached our goal. We will keep working towards further increasing the training rate during the coming year. As part of this effort, our focus will be on ensuring that the training is given to all concerned colleagues and as we grow and employ new people, provide them with this training within the first four months of employment. t his is why we have 
incorporated information about our anti-corruption programme as a part of our mandatory induction training for all of our colleagues. 
All of our suppliers must sign our code of Ethics. Based on our risk 
assessments, we focus on our com -
mercial good suppliers to addition -
ally provide them with training. In 2013, 100% of our commercial goods suppliers had signed our c ode and 
received the training. We have had a code of Ethics since 2003. In 2012, 
we updated our supplier c ode of 
Ethics to clearly state that any kind of bribery or facilitation money as part of the price of goods or services goes against our principles and will result in a review or termination of our business relationship. t his way, 
we want to contribute to sustain -
able development and positive value building in countries of particular concern, for example Bangladesh, cambodia, r ussia and c hina.  
Our managers on different levels play a key role in our anti-corruption work. t hey are role models for 
others and ultimately responsible for implementing our routines. We equip them with the tools needed to take this responsibility in the best possible way through additional training. In 2014, we will focus on this training even more to deepen the understanding of our anti-cor -
ruption work.
We take a clear stand  
against any form of corrup -
tion, including facilitation payments.
Please find an independent assurance 
statement related to GRI G4 SO5 here   
(p. 88).43 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
Our mission Our strategy
our goal is to be the employer of 
choice for both our current 116,00 
colleagues as well as for the talent 
that we need to attract in the future. Working at H&M means working in 
an inspiring, fast-paced, exciting and 
ever-changing environment with numerous career opportunities. o ur 
goal is to grow by 10–15% new stores each year. As part of this, we will need to attract thousands of new talents over the coming years. And we need 
to retain and develop the talent we 
already have. Being a good employer is particularly important in countries 
where laws and regulations fall short 
of our own standards and require -
ments. We need to ensure that our 
corporate values are lived throughout 
our operations, all around the world. We recruit from within the company wherever possible and provide system -
atic training and regular performance reviews for all of our colleagues. Wher -
ever we operate, we follow the same 
strong corporate values. We believe 
in people and encourage new ideas and initiatives. We keep hierarchies 
low, provide a wide range of benefits 
and promote teamwork. t hrough our 
Incentive Program , all of our colleagues 
benefit from the company’s success on 
equal terms, regardless of their posi -
tion. We promote diversity and strive 
to have good relations with all of our 
colleagues and the employee associa -
tions and trade unions that represent 
them. We survey the satisfaction of our 
colleagues anonymously and have made 
this a key measurement for all of our business units.
>hm.com/careerfocus: Employer of choice
44 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2014dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2014dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yearcoMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
focus: Employer of choice
Our Conscious Actions
3.5 s et baseline for target to 
increase employee satisfaction3.6 e nsure good workplace 
relations and dialogue with 
our colleagues and their  
representatives3.7 r each 100% of our  
colleagues with our learning 
management system “ grow ”
 
In 2013, we launched an extensive 
satisfaction survey amongst all of our colleagues. t here was an 80% 
response rate. We are currently evaluating the results and plan to regularly repeat this survey in the future. We also plan to set a target on employee satisfaction using survey data as a baseline and have already integrated this measure -
ment in our central 4 c (cash, 
customers, c olleagues, c onscious)
scorecard with which all of our busi -
ness units are measured. 
our Global f ramework Agreement 
with un I Global u nion states that both 
H&M and our employees have a joint responsibility to comply with the International l abour o rganization’s 
(Ilo) declaration on f undamental 
Principles and r ights at Work. t his 
includes our commitment to freedom  
of association and collective bargaining across all of our operations. c urrently, 
56% of our colleagues are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees are also represented at the board level. Besides various engage -
ments on local level, our global Employee r elations Manager holds 
regular meetings with representatives of the European Works c ouncil (EW c) 
that comprises employee representa -
tives from some of our most important sales countries including Germany,  
uK, france and s weden. 
> hm.com/fairpartner  
> uniglobalunion.org 
In 2012, we started implementing 
our global learning management system G roW. t he system allows 
all of our colleagues to manage their training, access additional optional e-learning or classroom courses and test their knowledge. s ustainability 
training is one of our mandatory training courses for all colleagues. Additional modules cater to role-specific needs. So far, 65% of our colleagues are actively using the system and our goal is to reach 100% by 2014.
>hm.com/training 
45 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
Our mission Our strategy
We have operations or suppliers in 
countries where human rights are at 
risk. r especting human rights has 
always been vital to us as an employer, 
business partner and corporate citi -
zen. c onsequently, we have developed 
a Group-wide human rights policy based on the un Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human r ights. We 
need to ensure that we have the right 
systems in place to secure its imple -
mentation and compliance through -
out. We also seek to use our influence to support human rights in the com -
munities around us.We prioritise our own operations and commercial goods suppliers. s pe-
cifically, our focus is on three most significant impacts: labour condi -
tions, women’s rights and the right to 
water. We work to integrate human 
rights into all relevant business decisions and have therefore estab -
lished dedicated due diligence tools. We provide training for concerned colleagues and suppliers. Specific policies guide our efforts for differ -
ent stakeholder groups, such as our code of c onduct , our discrimination 
and equality policy (s. 3.8, p. 46), our 
advertising policy  (s. 3.13, p. 50) or 
our privacy policies  (s. 3.14, p. 60). We 
have dedicated complaint procedures and audit systems in place. In addi -
tion, we promote respect for human 
rights wherever possible through a set 
of other engagements such as public 
policy, stakeholder dialogues and 
partnerships.focus: Human rights
46 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2016dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yearcoMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
focus: Human rights
Our Conscious Actions
3.8 e nsure compliance with 
our discrimination and equal -
ity and harassment policies 3.9 a ssess human rights risks  
and impacts before entering 
new market (production and 
sales)3.10 Promote increased 
awareness and respect for 
human rights and equality by 
partnering with c ivil r ights 
defenders
 
All of our stores, offices and ware -
houses regularly undergo audits in 
which we check compliance with our policies and routines. t his includes 
our discrimination and equality pol -
icy, as well as our harassment policy. For 2013, we identified a global compliance level of 100%. o ur goal is 
to maintain this level while we con -
stantly improve our audit routines to detect any non-compliance. 
our human rights policy commits us 
to conducting human rights risk and impact assessments before entering new production or sales markets. We have applied this to all production markets that we newly sourced from in 2013 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Myanmar) and to future sales markets. We have also conducted such assessments on some of our most important existing production markets (Bangladesh, turkey) and plan to expand these 
efforts in 2014 and beyond. 
In early 2014, we teamed up with civil r ights d efenders to extend our 
support for human rights and equal -
ity. d uring the next three years we 
will donate s EK 4 million to support 
their work for human rights and equality globally. In early 2014, we also launched a bracelet in all H&M stores globally (excl. franchise) with 100% of its sales price (E ur 1.95) 
being donated to this new partner.
>civilrightsdefenders.org
47 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
Our mission Our strategy
We see team diversity and inclusion 
as assets to the company at all levels. 
the majority of our customers are 
women and the same goes for our 
colleagues. t his should also be well 
reflected in our management. We need to ensure that we live our values throughout our more than 3,100 
stores, offices and warehouses in all of 
our markets. We need to promote our colleagues all the way to appointing members to our board regardless of 
gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orienta -
tion, religious beliefs, disability and 
more wherever we operate and ensure 
equality at all times. focus: Diversity & equality
diversity and equality are part of our 
values. s o, promoting our corporate 
values is key also to achieving this. 
Additionally, we have a group-wide diversity policy in place, as well as a 
discrimination and equality and a 
harassment policy (s. 3.8, p. 46). We check how well our stores, offices and 
warehouses live up to them through 
regular audits and we have clearly communicated complaint procedures 
in place. o ur aim is to achieve full 
compliance with these policies. Addi -
tionally, we work to promote diversity 
and equality beyond our operations and strive to show diverse models and 
looks in our advertising.
>hm.com/diversity
48 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20133.11 e nsure compliance with 
our diversity policy3.12 c omplete “ the b attle  
of the n umbers” project
 
to further promote diversity in and 
beyond our own operations, we took 
part in an initiative called " the Bat -
tle of the n umbers." t ogether with 
nine other leading multinational companies in s weden, we analysed 
and identified ways to increase the number of female leaders in the business community. While gender equality is already very strong within H&M, we identified a need to further promote diversity beyond the gender perspective.
>battleofthenumbers.se 
through our internal audits, we 
have determined that 100% of our 
entities have applied and imple -
mented our global diversity policy . 
77% of our colleagues are women, so it is integral to our operations that leadership reflects that. Conse -
quently, 73% of our managers and 50% of our board members are women, too.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yearOur Conscious ActionscoMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
focus: Diversity & equality
ratio of women/men on b oard 
of d irectors
MEn
50%WoMEn
50%ratio of women/men amongst 
all colleagues
WoMEn
77%MEn
21%
ratio of women/men 
in management P ositions
77% of our colleagues are 
women, so it is integral to 
our operations that  
leadership reflects that.WoMEn
73%MEn
27%49 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
Our mission Our strategy
our advertising campaigns are one of 
the many ways we communicate our 
business idea. o ur advertising has a 
broad impact in our 53 markets. We 
work with some of the world’s best 
photographers, models and style 
icons, aiming to inspire a wide and diverse target group. In doing so, 
balancing individual and cultural 
perceptions and customer demands requires sensitivity and tact. We need to ensure a diverse and healthy look 
while producing high-fashion images 
and messages that support current trends and our customer offering in 
an inspiring way. Also, we need to 
ensure that any data we gather for marketing or any other purposes is 
treated with highest possible integrity 
and privacy.All of our campaigns are produced centrally at our head office in Stock -
holm in collaboration with some of the world’s most recognised crea -
tives and models. f or many years, 
we have had an advertising policy in place, committing us, amongst other things, to consider the impact of our 
advertising around the world and to 
choose models and images that convey a positive message. We regularly conduct customer surveys to measure 
the feedback from our campaigns and 
are happy to see that they are gener -
ally well appreciated. But as we always 
seek for constant improvement, we 
strive to consider any feedback that we receive right from the start of any 
campaign that we create.
>hm.com/responsiblemarketingfocus: Responsible marketing
50 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yearcoMMI tMEnt t HrEE – BE  EtHIcAl
focus: Responsible marketing
Our Conscious Actions
3.13 e nsure compliance with 
our advertising policy3.14 e nsure compliance with 
our privacy policies
 
our privacy policies commit us 
to protecting the privacy of any 
customer or employee or applicant data. All customer data used in connection to our online shops is held centrally and subject to strict swedish data privacy laws. Any 
complaints that might arise are handled by the responsible depart -
ments, for example our customer service centers, where applicable in collaboration with our head office data privacy team to resolve these immediately and in the best possible way. As data privacy cannot be taken serious enough, we are continuously working to improve our systems and processes. 
When planning our campaigns, we value and strive to take on board all the vital input from our custom -
ers and other stakeholders right from the start. We received a lot of positive feedback on campaigns for the H&M+ collection in particular a swimwear campaign featuring well-known plus-size model Jennie runk. However, we also received 
some criticism concerning models shown in the H&M brand’s online shop section and catalogue for this collection. Although the chosen models wear a size 44 and up, some of our customers made us aware of that the images did not show this clearly enough. We reacted to this feedback immediately and removed the concerned images from the H&M online shop. dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year
51 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
Climate change is an issue 
that binds all of us. With the 
global population expected to 
exceed 10 billion by 2065,* the need 
for energy will continue to increase. 
At the same time the world is on a 
path to an increase in the global aver -
age temperature by more than 2° c 
above pre-industrial levels, which is expected to make climate change effects long-term and extreme.**
like many others, we have a keen 
interest and a responsibility to play 
our part in reducing climate impacts. 
so, we try to be as energy savvy 
as possible – which also allows us 
to reduce costs, of course. f or the 
energy use we cannot avoid, we are ultimately striving to use renewable energy only. 
the biggest climate impact along 
our value chain occurs outside of 
our operations. t his is why we work 
upstream with suppliers, fabric mills 
and transport providers alike to help 
them cut their climate impacts. t his 
holistic value chain approach also 
includes enabling and inspiring our 
customers towards conscious care of their clothes, for example, by switch -
ing to lower washing temperatures.
*Source:  
UN, Dept. of Economic and Social Affairs
**www.ipcc.ch — coMMI tMEnt four —
be climate  
smart52 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt four – BE cl IMA tE sMArt
Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – emissions from our own o Perations
conscious action 4.1 reduce our operations’ total greenhouse gas emissions 2015
conscious action 4.2 reduce electricity use in H&M (brand) stores by 20% per square metre 2020
conscious action 4.3 Increase our use of renewable electricity ongoing
focus – emissions along our V alue chain 
conscious action 4.4Ensure that 100% of transport service providers are either s martWay partners ( north America),  
WayAhead registered (Europe and Asia) or participating in the c lean s hipping Projectyear-to-year
conscious action 4.5 Engage our strategic suppliers in our Supplier Energy Efficiency Programme 201353 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Highlights 2013 from the life of T-shirt #0141569performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt four – BE cl IMA tE sMArt
18% 
of the electricity  
we used came from  
renewables . 14%  
reduction  in electricity use   
per H&M (brand) store sqm 
since 2007.
our own solar  
photovoltaic panels  generated 
enough energy to supply  
145 European households  
for an entire year.
this t -shirt has been 
made with 50% 
organic cotton .
You can wash it at up 
to 60 degrees, but 
choosing 30   
instead will save you  
money and requires  
50% less energy .Before hitting your  
shopping bag, 2.1 kg of 
greenhouse gas emis -
sions  have been produced. that means  
19% fewer  
greenhouse gas  
emissions  than using 
conventional cotton only.About 26%  of its life’s 
greenhouse  
gas emissions 
occur when it’s 
washed  or 
tumble-
dried   
at home.
147  
factories (representing 39% of our 
production volume) were engaged 
in energy efficiency 
programmes .54 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our strategy Our missionretail is a relatively low-carbon busi -
ness, but consequences from climate 
change may affect our business, sup -
ply chain, customers and colleagues. 
this is why we want to set a good 
example and play our part in reducing greenhouse gas emissions wherever possible. In turn, this can also help us 
save money. f or the past three years, 
our target has been to reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions by 5% rela -
tive to sales each year. In 2012, we hit 
that mark once again. n ow it’s time to 
step it up: We aim to reduce our total 
emissions by 2015 – despite opening 
10 to 15% more stores each year. our strategy is to achieve these reduc -
tions through structural and lasting change in our operations. Electric -
ity use in our stores represents over 
70% of our operations’ greenhouse 
gas emissions. s o this target pushes 
us to be even more energy efficient 
in our stores and to increase our use 
of renewable electricity to ultimately 
100%.
>hm.com/climate
gROWTH
10–15% more 
stores each year
IMpACT
total  co2e 
emissions
100%  
RENEW A blE  
ENER gy
2020
-20% electricity use per 
H&M store sqm by 20202015
absolute reduction 
in co2e emissioncoMMI tMEnt four – BE cl IMA tE sMArt
focus: Emissions from our own operations55 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious ActionscoMMI tMEnt four – BE cl IMA tE sMArt
focus: Emissions from our own operations
dEAdlInE MorE to do on trAcK donE
20154.1 r educe our operations’ 
total greenhouse gas emissions
our goal is to grow by 10–15% new 
stores every year – without causing 
any additional climate impacts. We want to reduce our operations’ total greenhouse gas emissions by 2015 at the latest. In 2013, our emissions (scope 1 and 2) increased by 9%, in line with our growth.* t o achieve 
our goal, we will continue to focus on improving energy efficiency in stores and the use of renewables.
*Increase in turnover in local currencies. Our GHG emissions accounting and 
reporting is aligned with the GHG Proto -
col. Reported co2e emissions are based 
on residual grid mix emission factors 
where available. Figures based on grid 
average emission factors (comparable to emission figures published in our 2012 
report) were for 2013: scope 1: 16,435t, 
scope 2: 365,336t. For further details and data, please see our CDP Climate Change 
Investor Response 2013. 
CO2e emissions 
include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane 
(CH4), nitrous oxide(N2O), hydrofluorocar -
bons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). 
Please find an 
independent assurance statement related 
to GRI G4 EN15 and EN16 here  (p. 88) .dEAdlInE MorE to do on trAcK donE
2015dEAdlInE MorE to do on trAcK donE
20204.3 i ncrease our use of  
renewable electricity4.2 r educe electricity use in 
h&m (brand) stores by 20% 
per sqm
using electricity from renewable 
sources is another key to reducing 
our absolute emissions. In 2013, 18% of our electricity came from renewables (2012: 18%, 2011: 15%). the emissions savings from this is 
equivalent to the yearly energy use of around 50,000 households. Addi -
tionally, our own photovoltaic solar panels generated approximately 784,200 kWh of electricity. 
our ambition is to ultimately reach 
100% renewable electricity. In some 
of our key markets such as the uK and the n etherlands, we have 
already reached 100% today. In other markets, this is more challenging at the moment as legislation that would allow credible accounting (i.e. that would exclude any double-counting) of the use of renewable electricity is not yet in place. the electricity use in our stores 
accounts for over 70% of our opera -
tions’ GHG emissions. s o increasing 
the energy efficiency of our stores is key to meeting our emissions target. It also helps us reduce costs. o ur 
target is to reduce electricity use per square metre in H&M (brand) stores by 20%, as compared to a 2007 baseline, by 2020. With 14% reduction achieved by 2013, we are still on track against this target. t o 
move towards a 20% reduction, we will continue to focus on reducing electricity in newly-built and rebuilt stores, as well as existing ones. As part of this initiative, by 2013, we equipped more than 65% of our stores with electricity metres for better on-site control and energy management. energy use reduction P er h &m  
(brand) store s Qm*
2010
-8%
-10%
-14% -14%
-20%2011 2012 2013tArGEt
202018% 
of the electricity   
we used came from 
renewables
energy use in g J (sco Pe 1+2)**
2010 2011 2012 20132,982,6623,447,404
3,320,5564,125,762total co2e emissions in tonnes 
(sco Pe 1+2) – incl. r enewables
2011 2012 2013sco PE 1 
17,543sco PE 1
16,435 sco PE 1
15,282sco PE 2 
272,735sco PE 2
310,269sco PE 2
339,939290,278325,551356,374
* As a result of improvements made in our data systems, the 2012 result was adjusted 
from 15% to 14% and the 2011 result from 11% to 10%. Please find an independent 
assurance statement related to GRI G4 EN5 and EN6 here  (p. 88).  
** Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI G4 EN3 here  (p. 88).56 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt four – BE cl IMA tE sMArt
focus: Emissions along our value chain
While reducing operational green -
house gas emissions is an essential 
goal for us, we know that the biggest 
climate impacts along our value chain happen outside of our operations. 
for example, 12% occur when raw 
materials for our products are grown 
or made, and 36% result from fabric 
production. t he challenge here is that 
we normally do not have any direct 
business relations at these stages of our value chain and cannot place 
demands as we can with our direct 
contract suppliers. Another 26% of the impacts occur when customers 
wash and care for their clothes. s o, 
we strive to contribute to lowering 
climate impacts across all these stages 
of our value chain. 26% 
of greenhouse 
gas emissions 
in a garment’s life 
occur in  
the user phaseOur strategy
for several years, we have been 
working with our transport provid -
ers to help them reduce their cli -
mate impacts. We have extended 
this approach to our manufacturing 
suppliers in a mix of contractual 
demands and offering incentives through our Supplier Energy Effi -
ciency Programme. In order to reach other stages of our value chain, we need to choose a different approach. We are progressing quickly in extend -
ing our influence over fabric mills by gradually mapping them and includ -
ing them into our supplier auditing 
programme. In terms of raw materi -
als, we can in turn make a major dif -
ference already in the design phase by choosing the right materials. And we 
are working to inspire our customers to, for example, wash their clothes at 
lower temperatures. co2e im Pacts along our V alue chain
r AW  
MAtErIAls 
12%fAB rIc 
Product Ion 
36%GArMEnt 
Product Ion 
6%PAcKAGI nG 
5%
trAnsPort 
6%
sAlEs
10%
usE 26%
Climate and impacts are estimated H&M value 
chain footprints from Lifecycle Assesments 
(LCAs) conducted on behalf of H&M and are 
based on our total use of cotton, organic cotton, polyester and viscose in 2011/2012. Deviation from 100% due to rounding effects.Our mission
57 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious ActionscoMMI tMEnt four – BE cl IMA tE sMArt
focus: Emissions along our value chain
dEAdlInE MorE to do on trAcK donE
year-to-year4.4 e nsure that 100% of 
transport service providers 
are either s mart way partners 
(north a merica), w ayahead 
registered ( europe and a sia) 
or participating in the c lean 
shipping Project 
We have added to our minimum 
requirements for road transport partners that they must all be smartWay partners ( north America) 
or WayAhead registered (Europe and Asia). We require sea freight part -
ners to register their environmental performance in the c lean s hipping 
Index for evaluation. In 2013, we found that this was not the case for all of our transport partners. As a result, we will follow up with those concerned to ensure that they live up to our standards as soon as possible. We will also review our verification systems to ensure compliance in the future.dEAdlInE MorE to do on trAcK donE
year-to-year4.5 e ngage our strategic  
suppliers in our s upplier 
Energy Efficiency Programme
our garment-manufacturing sup -
plier factories represent about 6% of the climate impact from a product’s lifecycle. In 2010, we set up our s up-
plier Energy Efficiency Programme (sEEP). t he aim was to engage as 
many of our strategic suppliers as possible in the programme and help them improve their energy efficiency. 147 supplier factories (representing 39% of our purchasing volume) have since been involved in the pro -
gramme. o n average, they improved 
the energy efficiency per piece produced by 4% each year during the last three years. We are currently evaluating further lessons learned and data from this programme to develop a holistic climate strategy for our value chain. our challenge is that, as our busi -
ness grows, our transportation needs will increase further and we have to meet these needs while at the same time using fewer natural resources and limiting our climate impacts. As we do not own any transport facilities, choosing low-emissions transport options like via sea or rail wherever possible is espe -
cially important in keeping down both emissions and costs. We work to avoid air freight wherever pos -
sible and in 2013, around 90% of the shipped volumes were transported from the production country to our warehouses via sea or rail. We aim to use air freight only in exceptional cases, for example in case of unfore -
seen production delays. u nfortu -
nately, this was the case during 2013, leading to a marked increase in emissions from air freight.
>hm.com/transport147  
factories (39% of our 
production volume)  
were engaged in  
energy efficiency 
programmes
total co2e emissions in tonnes 
(sco Pe 3) 
188,582229,699 279,010
2011 2012 2013
Reported scope 3 emissions include 
goods transport and distribution, 
and business travel.
energy use  
in g J (sco Pe 3)
3,714,264
Please find an independent assurance state -
ment related to GRI G4 EN17 here  (p. 88).H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 201358 of 92packaging, hangers and shopping 
bags are all part of the retail 
business. That said, efficient 
material use and applying smart meth -
ods to reuse and recycle helps reduce waste. It also helps to decrease the 
need for virgin resources. Both mean fewer environmental impacts – and 
both can save money, too.
so, we strive to reduce, reuse and 
recycle across our operations. But the 
really big question is: What happens 
to clothes when consumers no longer want them? In many countries there 
are great systems to, for example, give 
unwanted clothes to charities. But still, too many clothes end up in landfill. 
In the u K alone, according to a study 
conducted by W rAP, some 31% of all 
textiles end up in the bin. According to the Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA), 5% of US landfills consist of 
textiles. 95% of these could be reused 
or recycled. s o we need to change 
something about that virgin resources 
are extracted at one end and wast -
ing on the other. t his opens up great 
opportunities. A new source of materi -
als for making low-impact clothes, for 
example. o r to reduce the waste on our planet. And to minimise the need for land, water, chemicals and more 
to make virgin raw materials. t his is 
why we are aiming for nothing less 
than creating a closed loop for textile 
fibres and to find ways for turning 
unwanted clothes into new fashion. — coMMI tMEnt fIvE —
Reduce, reuse,  
recycle
59 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt f IvE – rE duc E, rEusE, rEcYclE
Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – c lose the loo P on textile fibres
conscious action 5.1 Offer garment collecting systems in all H&M (brand) stores 2013
conscious action 5.2 Increase the amount of collected garments, set baseline and target moving forward 2014
conscious action 5.3 Introduce the first closed-loop products* 2014
conscious action 5.4 Join the c ircular Economy 100 platform 2013
 focus – w aste
conscious action 5.5 recycle at least 95% of the waste handled at our warehouses 2013
conscious action 5.6 Increase the share of stores that recycle the main types of store waste 2014
conscious action 5.7 Avoid waste by using recycled input materials to make new clothes year-to-year
conscious action 5.8 Ensure that all H&M (brand) standard plastic consumer bags are made of 100% recycled input material year-to-year
*Completed before publication of this report in spring 2014.60 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
coMMI tMEnt f IvE – rE duc E, rEusE, rEcYclE
performance overview
Highlights 2013 from the life of denim #0205342
first closed-loop products 
launched .3,047  tonnes  
of no longer wanted garments collected.  
that’s as much textile fabric as in about  
15 million t -shirts .
92%  of the waste 
handled at our warehouses was  
recycled . (2012: 92%)the amount of recycled polyester  
we used is equivalent to  
9.5 million  PEt bottles.this denim is made  
with 20% recycled cotton   
and 28% recycled polyester . this way, it helped keep 
fashion from ending 
up in landfill . 
to make it out of recycled 
material only, more tech -
nological innovation  
is needed to ensure highest 
quality demands. 
We are working to overcome 
this challenge and our goal  
is to create a closed loop 
for textile fibres .the recycled  
cotton is  
generated from 
no longer 
wanted clothes .Its recycled polyester used  to be 
3.1 PEt bottles .
We joined the c ircular  
Economy 100 platform .61 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our mission
We have set the goal to close the loop 
for textile fibres and turn unwanted 
clothes into new creations. In the 
short term, this will help keep fash -
ion from ending up in landfills. In 
the long run, this can change the 
way fashion is made and massively reduce the need for extracting virgin 
resources from our planet. It will 
also give us direct access to environ -
mentally-conscious resources for our designs. t o ensure that this happens, 
we need to make it easy and attrac -
tive for our customers to drop off any clothes they no longer want or need 
at H&M. Another challenge is that 
the yarn made from recycled natural fibres is currently not strong enough 
to make high-quality fabrics without 
being blended with virgin material. So, we need to help finding innova -
tions to overcome this challenge and also find new ways to recycle other 
kinds of materials, too.coMMI tMEnt f IvE – rE duc E, rEusE, rEcYclE
Focus: Close the loop on textile fibres
Our strategy
We teamed up with one of the world 
leaders in textile recycling, I: co, to 
collect unwanted clothes – from any brand and in any condition from H&M customers in all of our markets. We 
provide an easy solution not to let 
fashion go to waste, rewarding cus -
tomers with discounts as thanks. All 
collected clothes are then reused or 
recycled. At the moment, for example, as second hand clothes or recycled into your next cleaning cloth, but 
also the first new yarn to make new 
clothes. Nothing goes to the landfill. We work with suppliers and other 
stakeholders to increasingly recycle 
collected garments that are not suit -
able for reuse, and use these fibres in 
making new products. c urrently we 
can blend in about 20% of such fibres 
without any loss of quality or longev -
ity. t o increase this share and enable 
large scale production, we are creating 
demand for and investing directly in 
the required technical innovation.
>hm.com/longlivefashion  
>ico-spirit.comClOSED l OOp
Avoid waste and use no longer 
wanted clothes as resource for 
new products instead
5
transport
1
design2
raw 
materials4
Garment  
production
3
fabric  
production6
sales
7
use62 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK donE*
2014dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2013
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2014Our Conscious Actions
5.1 Offer garment collecting 
systems in all h &m (brand) 
stores5.2 i ncrease the amount 
of collected garments, set 
baseline and target moving 
forward5.3 Introduce the first  
closed-loop products5.4 Join the c ircular 
economy 100 platform 
since the launch of our garment 
collecting initiative in spring 2013, 
our aim was to scale this service up to cover all H&M (brand) stores glob -
ally. And so we did! o ur customers 
can now drop off any clothes they no longer want or need at close to 100% of H&M (brand) stores worldwide. for franchise markets, our current 
rule is to have at least one store per market included. Moving forward, our focus will be on implementing garment recycling systems in all new markets within six months of opening. 
our aim is to increase the volume 
of garments that we collect. d uring 
2013, the numbers have continu -
ously increased over the year and reached 3,047 tonnes by year-end. that’s as much textile fabric as in 
about 15 million t -shirts. We will 
now use this data as a baseline to set a target to guide our ambitions for the coming years. 
We have now taken the next step in our mission to create a closed loop and have made the first products with at least 20% recycled material from collected garments. These five denim products reached H&M (brand) stores worldwide in early 2014. We are plan -
ning to increase the use of recycled material from collected garments even more and support the research needed to make this happen. 
the c ircular Economy 100 is a 
global platform initiated by the Ellen McArthur f oundation that 
brings together leading companies, emerging innovators and many more to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. In 2013, we joined this platform as one of about 40 companies collaborating on innova -
tion in this area. It aims to develop system-level solutions addressing resource scarcity, which is in line with our aim to close the loop on textile fibres.
>ellenmacarthurfoundation.orgcoMMI tMEnt f IvE – rE duc E, rEusE, rEcYclE
Focus: Close the loop on textile fibres
*Completed before publication of this 
report in spring 2014.Please find an independent assurance statement here  (p. 88).
tonnes of garments collected
Q1
2013Q2
2013Q3
2013Q4
20131603t
33t811t
600ttotal  
3,047t63 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our mission Our strategy
like any other organisation, we pro -
duce waste, for example, cardboard, 
paper and plastic, in our stores, offices 
and warehouses. We want to avoid creating waste wherever possible. 
this helps save money and natural 
resources. f or waste that cannot be 
avoided, we need to make sure to reuse and recycle as much as possible. 
But we also have a great opportunity to help reduce waste impacts way beyond our operations, for example, 
by using waste as a resource for new, 
high-quality products. And by making it easy for our customers to reduce 
and recycle waste on their end.We aim to send as little waste to 
landfills as possible. We are focusing 
on our warehouses where most of our 
operational waste is handled. Addi -
tionally, we are extending this work 
by implementing recycling systems 
in all of our stores. And we use cut remnants and post-consumer waste 
to make new shopping bags or new 
clothes. t hrough our garment collect -
ing initiative, we provide easy solu -
tions for our customers to not let any 
fashion go to the landfill and instead 
give it a new life (s. 5.1, p. 62).
>hm.com/waste
coMMI tMEnt f IvE – rE duc E, rEusE, rEcYclE
focus: Waste64 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2013dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yeardEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2014Our Conscious Actions
5.5 r ecycle at least 95% of the 
waste handled at our ware -
houses5.6 i ncrease the share of 
stores that recycle the main 
types of store waste 5.7 a void waste by using  
recycled input materials to make new clothes
the majority of all the waste that  
we generate is handled in our ware -
houses. In 2013, this was around 
35,000 tonnes. o ur goal for 2013 
was to recycle 95% of this waste. We achieved 92% (2012: 92%). s o, we 
will keep on working to achieve the remaining three percentage points to meet our target in 2014.  
While much of the waste generated in our stores is sent to our ware -
houses and recycled, we want to make sure that the remaining waste is also handled in the best possible way. Pre-conditions for this can vary largely from store to store – for example, depending on existing recycling systems in the community or building or the available space. While these can pose serious chal -
lenges locally, over the last year we have implemented recycling systems in more stores. We focus on the most important waste types, namely cardboard, plastic and paper. s o far, 
56%* of our stores are onboard, and all of our markets have now set indi -
vidual goals to increase this share during 2014. 
We use a range of recycled materi -
als, such as recycled cotton, wool and polyester, to make our products. currently 0.3% of the materials we 
used in 2013 were recycled. While this percentage may sound low, the impact is still considerable. f or example, the 
amount of recycled polyester we used this year is equivalent to 9.5 million PEt bottles (2012: 7.9 million).coMMI tMEnt f IvE – rE duc E, rEusE, rEcYclE
focus: Waste
* Extrapolation based on data available 
for 90% of our stores during 2013% of waste that was recycled We used recycled  
polyester equivalent 
to 9.5 m illion  
PEt bottles
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year5.8 e nsure that all h &m 
(brand) standard plastic con -
sumer bags are made of 100%  
recycled input material
 
our most commonly-used stand -
ard bags in H&M (brand) stores 
are made of recycled plastic. t hese 
make up the largest number of bags that we produce within the H&M Group by far. As our studies have shown, recycled plastic is the best 
201292% 92%95%
2013 GoAl
2014choice from a lifecycle perspec -
tive. t hese bags require much less 
energy, chemicals and water to produce and take up less space in transport than, for example, paper bags. We do, however, also use paper bags in some markets where it is required, for certain campaigns and for our brands cos and & o ther 
stories. t he paper originates from 
well-managed forests certified by the fsc . All of our bags are recycla -
ble and we encourage reusing and recycling them.
>hm.com/carrierbags
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 201365 of 92Our planet is facing scarcity 
issues on many fronts. By 
2030, the world will need 
50% more food, 45% more energy and 
30% more water, according to the un . 
Water in particular plays an important role throughout the life of a garment, from growing cotton to making fabrics 
and finally washing clothes at home. 
Using resources efficiently makes business sense and will increasingly provide opportunities for competitive 
advantage. t his is why to operate as a 
sustainable business, we are commit -
ted to conserving water, soil, air and species. But more than that, we need 
to ensure that resources are shared fairly and consider the needs of both 
present and future generations.
 — coMMI tMEnt sIX —
Use natural resources  
responsibly66 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – water stewardshi P 
conscious action 6.1 Install water-efficient equipment in all stores, warehouses and offices 2020
conscious action 6.2 Ensure appropriate wastewater treatment for all supplier factories with wet processes 2014
conscious action 6.3 further reduce water use in washing processes for denim and other water-intense product types year-to-year
conscious action 6.4 Implement improved water management at all supplier factories with wet processes 2015
conscious action 6.5 develop dedicated water engagement plans for the Yangtze ( china) and Brahmaputra (Bangladesh) river basins 2014
conscious action 6.6 develop method to extend measuring and reporting on water impact reductions in raw material and fabric production 2015
conscious action 6.7 raise awareness on water impact 2014
focus – chemical management
conscious action 6.8 Maintain the high standards of our chemical restrictions list by reviewing it annually year-to-year
conscious action 6.9 Introduce positive lists 2013
conscious action 6.10 Help to lead our industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals 2020
conscious action 6.11Achieve that all of our strategic suppliers in the global south with applicable processes report their discharge  
data on 11 priority chemical groups preferably via the IPE platform201367 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
Highlights 2013performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
from the life of denim #0143891
30,000
tests conducted  to ensure that  
our products are safe 
to wear and don’t cause harm 
to the environment.340
million fewer litres  
of water used in  
denim production .
2,300 hours  
of training  for our colleagues 
on water impact  as part 
of our collaboration with WW f.over 1 million  pairs  
of this denim have been  
sold since 2012. With this and other  
improvements in  
production, water use is 
65% lower  than before.
this means that almost  
31 million  fewer litres  
of water have been used.today it’s made using  
innovative waterless  
technology .*
*ozone bleaching3,591,000 
litres of rainwater harvested.68 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our missionfocus: Water stewardshipcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
Growing cotton, dyeing fabrics, 
creating washed-out denim looks 
and not least washing our clothes at 
home all require a lot of water. At the same time, about 40% of the world’s 
population lives in river basins that 
experience extreme water scarcity during at least one month of the year, 
according to WW f. About two-thirds 
of the factories that make clothes for 
H&M using wet processes are located in such areas. f rom our lifecycle 
assessments, we know that raw mate -
rial production has the biggest water impacts in our value chain. Almost 
87% of the water use of an average 
product falls in the raw materials stage, mainly due to the high water-
intensity of growing cotton. f abric 
production is usually where water 
pollution is most likely to occur. 
However, our influence over these 
stages is lower as we do not normally 
have direct contractual relations with 
cotton farmers. We must ensure that these resources are managed respon -
sibly so that the needs of all their users can be met. And we need to continue to create the best products 
for our customers, with less impact 
on water resources. t his is why we teamed up with WW f, aiming for 
nothing less than to set new stand -
ards for water stewardship in the 
fashion industry.
water f oot Print across our V alue 
chain
r AW  
MAtErIAls 
87%fAB rIc 
Product Ion 
6%GArMEnt 
Product Ion 
1%trAnsPort 
0%sAlEs
0%
usE
8%
© Michel Gunther / WWF- canonEstimated H&M value chain water footprint 
from our total use of cotton, organic cotton, 
polyester and viscose in 2011/2012. For the foot -
print analysis, primary and secondary data has 
been used and the principles of LCA-methodol -
ogy has been applied. The footprint is based on 
WFN’s methodology and includes green, blue 
and grey water footprint. Deviation from 100% due to rounding effects.69 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013together with WW f we have devel -
oped a ground-breaking, holistic 
strategy for water stewardship using 
the WW f Water r isk f ilter and 
bringing together WW f’s expertise in 
this area with the knowledge base we have built up over the past ten years. In a unique partnership, the first of its 
kind in the fashion industry, we are 
working together to implement this strategy along our entire value chain by 2015 at the latest. t his includes 
increasing awareness amongst our colleagues, suppliers and custom -
ers, analyzing our water impacts in 
detail and continuously implementing 
the required actions to reduce these impacts. We are targeting supplier 
factories with in-house wet processes 
and particularly those located in water-stressed areas to improve their 
water management. We are focusing 
on the river basins of Yangtze ( china) 
and Brahmaputra (Bangladesh), where many of our suppliers are located. Here, we are engaging stakehold -
ers and decision-makers to achieve further change way beyond the fac -
tory walls. We are also continuing to 
assess our material choices for their 
water impacts. c otton is our most important raw material. s o our goal is 
to use only cotton from more sustain -
able sources by 2020 at the latest  (s. 1.1, p. 16), meaning significantly lower water use.
>hm.com/water
>wwf.panda.orgfocus: Water stewardshipcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
Our strategy
 
Water  
awareness
Knowledge
of impact
Internal action
stakeholder engagement
Influence governanceWAT E R 
STRATE gy
H&M’s new water
strategy has been 
developed in  
line with WWf ’s 
water stewardship 
stepsPIONEERING 
WATER 
STEW ARDSHIP  
FOR F ASHION70 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Water stewardshipcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20206.1 Install water-efficient 
equipment in all stores,  
warehouses and offices
our direct operations have only a 
minimal impact on water from a 
value chain perspective. t his small 
impact notwithstanding, we want to set standards on best practice and reduce water use as much as possible. t his is why our goal is to 
install water-efficient equipment such as low-flow taps in all of our stores, warehouses and offices by 2020 at the latest. By 2013, 19% of our facilities had been equipped with these. o ur goal is 100% by 2020. o ur 
warehouses in Hamburg, Ghlin and Madrid as well as a number of stores in the u K have additional rainwa -
ter harvesting facilities in place. together, they harvested about 3.6 
million litres of rainwater. litres of rainwater har Vested 
in own facilities
2012 20133,591,000 
lItrEs
3,005,000 
lItrEsdEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20146.2 e nsure appropriate 
wastewater treatment for all 
supplier factories with wet 
processes
We request all supplier factories with 
wet processes (approx. 500) such as dyeing or washing to have appropri -
ate wastewater treatment in place – either by having their own treatment plants or by using shared municipal treatment plants. f or those factories 
with their own treatment plants we go beyond legal requirements and check the wastewater against quality levels defined by the Business for social r esponsibility (B sr) Water 
Group. d uring the year, we worked 
with WW f to develop new routines, 
for example, for data verification and testing through external laborato -
ries. With these improved routines we have seen improvements on total suspended solids ( tss ) and stable 
figures for biological oxygen demand (Bod), but a decline mainly for chem -
ical oxygen demand ( cod ). this is 
largely due to our decision to include factories that have not reported on time as non-compliant in this dis -
closure. t he analysis of the data also 
showed that the quality varies widely from factory to factory and country to country. Aiming to ensure that all applicable factories will have appro -
priate systems in place, we will put high attention on individual factory action plans and apply strengthened business consequences for repeated failure to comply. In parallel, we will increase our alignment with other brands in shared factories and work to influence decision-makers in improving the legal requirements.
>bsr.org
Based on data submitted by 454 supplier 
factories with wet processes.% of su PPlier factories in f ull 
comPliance with our waste water 
Quality r eQuirements
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Bod tss cod
93.3%
78.8%
76.3%82.8%
77.8%
67.9%73.3% 80.0%78.6%83.2% 83.0%96.6%95.7%97.5%
90.0%
71 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
focus: Water stewardshipcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year6.3 further reduce water 
use in washing processes 
for denim and other water-
intense product types
 
Producing denim can be particularly 
water-intense to achieve the desired looks. We found that better pro -
cesses can reduce water use by 30%. today, 58% of our denim suppliers 
use such techniques (2012: 50%) and we are working hard to apply these to increasingly more suppliers and product types. In 2013 alone, this reduced water usage by an estimated 340 million litres compared to con -
ventional production processes and the previous year. reductions of water use in 
denim P roduction com Pared to 
con Ventional techni Ques and 
PreVious year
2010 2011 2012 201350 
MIllIon 
lItrEs300  
MIllIon 
lItrEs450   
MIllIon 
lItrEs
340   
MIllIon 
lItrEs
Extrapolation based on  
average savings and order volumes.  litres used P er kg of clothing (manufacturing 
suPPlier water efficiency)
Based on data submitted by 450 supplier factories.2012lEss t HAn 
100 l ItrEs 
PEr KG
73.2%
2012100–200 
lItrEs 
PEr KG
17.8%
2012MorE  
tHAn 200 
lItrEs  
PEr KG
9%
2013100–200 
lItrEs 
PEr KG
18.1%
2013MorE  
tHAn 200 
lItrEs  
PEr KG
10.1%
2013lEss t HAn 
100 l ItrEs 
PEr KG
71.8%
H&M’s commitment and dedication  
to becoming an industry leader within  
water is truly inspiring. 
Daniel Robertsson, Corporate Relations, WW f Sweden 340  
million fewer  
litres  of water
 used  in denim  
production
Our Conscious Actions72 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013focus: Water stewardshipcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20146.5 d evelop dedicated water 
engagement plans for the 
yangtze ( china) and  
brahmaputra ( bangladesh) 
river basins
 
the Yangtze and Brahmaputra river 
basins are the two single most sig -
nificant water sources for our sup -
plier factories with wet processes. 
this is why we are paying special 
attention to these river basins and are currently together with WW f 
developing dedicated plans on how to extend the impact of our efforts by collaborating with local stake -
holders such as local authorities, communities and the private sector. As part of this, we will support a conservation project led by WW f 
to protect the endangered Yangtze finless porpoise. Only about 1,000 individuals of this species are left. the project aims to secure their 
habitat in the t ian-e-Zhou lake in 
the Yangtze river delta. t o achieve 
this, the project will amongst other things focus on training cotton farmers in the region in more sus -
tainable farming practices to reduce water pollution. It will also work with the provincial government to advocate for setting up new natural reserves.
Our Conscious Actions
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20156.4 i mplement improved water 
management at all supplier 
factories with wet processes 
 
the impact our supplier factories 
have on their local water resources 
depends on how much water they withdraw from different sources and the quality and amount of wastewater they produce. We work to go beyond just compliance with wastewater treatment requirements and to reduce the water impact of all of our supplier factories with wet processes from a holistic perspective. o ur goal is for all of 
these approx. 500 factories to have improved water management sys -
tems in place by 2015. t his includes, 
for example, improved measurement tools for their water use. Based on this, we aim for these factories to set annual targets for reduced water use and increased water recycling rates. t o start, we are focusing on 
factories located in water-scarce areas and in the Brahmaputra and Yangtze river deltas, which are the two single most significant water sources for our supplier factories with wet processes. t o support 
them in this work, we provide them with training (s. 6.7, p. 73) and are currently integrating additional water management criteria into our supplier performance assessments. this way, we can help suppliers to 
water withdrawal by source in su PPlier factories 
located around y angtze, c hina and b rahma Putra, b angladesh
% of used water recycled in 
brahma Putra and y angtze regions
yangtze: 7%
brahmaP utra: 9%88 l/ KG 
clot HEs
aVerage water 
withdrawal P er kg  
clothes at h &m 
suPPlier factories 
in water-scarce 
areas.*Ground WA tEr
Mun IcIPAl WAtErotHEr
rIvEr W AtEr
YAnGt ZE BrAHMA-
Putr A52%0.5%
99%36%2%
10%
0.5%identify priorities for improvements 
– and we can provide them with incentives for good performance, for example through better busi -
ness. Moving forward, we aim to set baselines and targets founded on the data and knowledge we gain this way.
*Grade 4 and above on WWF basin related risk indicator "Scarcity is most scarce month".
© Brent Stirton / Getty iM aGeS / WWF- uK73 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013focus: Water stewardshipcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20146.7 r aise awareness on water 
impact 
 
did you know that it takes about 
8,500 litres of water to grow the 
cotton needed to make one pair of jeans? t he growing scarcity of clean 
drinking water is not yet as well known to a broad audience as, for example, climate change. n either 
is how important water is to make fashion and the opportunities our industry has to make a significant contribution to tackling such water challenges. We want to raise the awareness of this issue amongst all of our colleagues, suppliers and customers of this issue. t herefore, 
we have developed different train -
ing packages for our colleagues. All of them should have basic knowl -
edge about this matter as part of our new mandatory sustainability training (s. 1.11, p. 20). We provide additional focused water training for colleagues in specific key roles, such as our production offices. In 2013, we provided an estimated 2,300 hours of this type of training. 2,300 
hours of training   
on water impact
for our colleagues
during 2014, we plan to roll out a 
training programme for all of our supplier factories with wet processes on water challenges and responsible water use, including guidance for setting goals to reduce water use and increase water recycling. f rom 
spring 2014, all of our garments will carry the c levercare label, aiming to 
inspire our customers to conscious garment care (s. 1.9, p. 20). We have also made water messages part of two customer campaigns during the year and integrated additional mes -
sages in the in-store communication at all H&M (brand) stores.
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20156.6 d evelop method to extend 
measuring and reporting  
on water impact reductions 
in raw material and fabric 
production
 
today, we can already reduce water 
impacts by making better material 
choices. f or example, Better c otton 
needs about 20% less water to grow than conventional cotton. But more needs to be done to assess different materials for their water impacts and strategically integrate this in our material selection. t o support  
this, one of the activities in our partnership with WW f is to liaise 
with the organisation MA dE-BY to 
better include water impacts in their sustainable fibre benchmark to help us and other companies make better material choices also in regards to water. Through several different ini -
tiatives and programmes, for exam -
ple in collaboration with the d utch 
nGo solidaridad, we are working 
with fabric producers to reduce their environmental impact, particularly on water. t o extend these successful efforts to a larger scale we are cur -
rently integrating fabric mills into our supplier assessment tools (s. 2.6, p. 27) and are developing dedicated measure  ments to drive and report 
on improvements made in this sec -
tor. o ur goal is to cover all strategic 
fabric and yarn mills involved in at 
least 50% of our production volume by 2015. 
>solidaridad.org
>made-by.org
 Our Conscious Actions74 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our strategy Our missionfocus: Chemical managementcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
chemicals are often needed, for exam -
ple, to dye garments. Most of them are 
harmless to humans and the envi -
ronment. But safety cannot be taken 
serious enough – for our customers, 
our colleagues, the workers who make 
our products or the environment. t his 
is why we need to make sure that our 
products do not contain any harmful 
substances. But we also go beyond the product perspective and take responsi -
bility for the environment around the 
factories that make them. t his is why 
we are working to achieve zero dis -
charge of hazardous chemicals across our value chain by 2020 at the latest.We have strict chemical restrictions 
(restricted s ubstance l ist, rsl ) 
in place and perform regular tests, mainly in third-party laboratories based on risk assessments that are 
conducted for each product order. 
But our focus is on preventing the use of any restricted substances at our 
suppliers and increasingly already 
at their fabric suppliers. o ur suppli -
ers receive intensive training on our chemical restrictions and on chemical 
management, with additional focus 
on factories with chemical-intense processes, such as dyeing or printing. 
We conduct specific chemical audits 
in which we for example check the so-called s afety d ata s heet ( sds ) and 
the safe storage of the chemicals used in a factory. Additionally, we work with several stakeholders to further 
advance chemical management and 
transparency and even actively pro -
mote stricter legislation.
>hm.com/chemicals
75 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Chemical managementcoMMI tMEnt s IX – us E nAtur Al rEsourc Es rEsPons IBlY
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-yeardEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2013
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2020
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20136.8 m aintain the high  
standards of our chemical 
restrictions list by reviewing 
it annually6.9 i ntroduce positive lists 6.10 help to lead our industry towards zero discharge of  
hazardous chemicals6.11 a chieve that all of our  
strategic suppliers in the 
global south with wet  
processes report their  
discharge data on 11 priority chemical groups preferably via the i Pe platform
All of our suppliers are contractually 
bound to comply with our chemical restrictions list. o ur restrictions are 
some of the most stringent in the industry and we follow the precau -
tionary principle. t his means that 
we restrict substances also if they are not legislated or if there are scientific uncertainties. t o ensure this, we 
review and update our list at least annually. In 2013, for example, we added a full ban on perfluorinated compounds (P fcs) for all of our prod -
ucts. d uring the year, we conducted 
about 30,000 tests to ensure compli -
ance with our chemical restrictions.Besides restricting harmful chemi -
cals, we have also started to use so-called positive lists. t his means 
that instead of only excluding certain substances, we provide our suppli -
ers with lists of chemical products that comply with our restrictions list. t his makes it easier for them 
to choose the right products and increases compliance. We released our first positive lists (for three dif -
ferent chemical producers) in 2013 and plan to continue this work by bringing more chemical producers on board. As part of this work, we have also published a list of currently seven approved and environmen -
tally-preferable alternatives to P fcs.In 2011, we teamed up with five other leading brands to develop a joint roadmap to help lead our industry to achieve zero discharge of hazardous chemicals. Building on an extensive record of experience and achieve -
ments in chemical management, we have since made good progress with both the joint roadmap as well as our complementary individual action plan. s everal more brands 
have joined the group since the launch. d uring 2013, for example, 
we extended detailed chemical usage and discharge studies, dedicated training and audits to cover all of our strategic suppliers with wet pro -
cesses in c hina, India, Bangladesh 
and c ambodia. 
>hm.com/zerodischarge  
>roadmaptozero.comWe value transparency. As part of our work towards zero discharge of haz -
ardous chemicals we have therefore engaged our strategic suppliers that have chemically intensive processes, so that 34 suppliers in Bangladesh, china, India, c ambodia and Indone -sia now disclose discharge data from their in-house treatment plants on 11 priority chemical groups via the IPE (Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs) or similar public platform. To provide all of them with the best pos -
sible solutions for such disclosure, we will continue to work on developing disclosure mechanisms and sup -
port the development of additional disclosure platforms through a part -
nership programme together with solidaridad and the International 
finance c orporation (I fc). A report 
published by IPE in d ecember 2013 
ranked H&M amongst the top per -
forming brands in terms of environ -
mental supply chain management.
>ipe.org.cn
H&M is matching its  
commitment with fashion-
forward action.  
greenpeace Detox Catwalk76 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
The way we do business, our 
values and our growth have 
an impact on millions of 
people around the world. f rom the 
places where our over 3,100 stores are located all the way along our value 
chain. We want to contribute to these communities and make sure they 
benefit from having us there. We work 
throughout our value chain to drive lasting change. t hrough strategic 
investments and together with our 
community partners we can extend 
these efforts and achieve a wider impact. In doing this, we want to 
create win-win situations and shared 
value for us as a company, our custom -
ers and local communities. t hrough, 
for example, cause-related collections or additional in-store donations, we involve our customers and colleagues 
in our work to strengthen communi -
ties. Additionally, the H&M c onscious 
foundation works to reach beyond 
H&M’s value chain and to make a dif -
ference for people and communities on a global scale. — coMMI tMEnt sEvEn —
Strengthen  
communities77 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
Pro GrEss r EPort deadlinestatus
MorE to do on tr AcK don E
focus – in Vestments in shared V alue along our V alue chain
conscious action 7.1 create and contribute to employment opportunities year-to-year
conscious action 7.2 Empower over 1.7 million children through education, health and child protection through the All for c hildren project 2018
conscious action 7.3 Help train 1 million cotton farmers to grow cotton with less impact on the environment and with improved livelihood 2015
conscious action 7.4 Provide at least 500,000 people with access to safe water in countries where our products are made 2016
conscious action 7.5 develop and roll out a new community development strategy 2014
focus – community su PPort 
conscious action 7.6 Provide emergency relief in cases of humanitarian catastrophes as required
conscious action 7.7 donate garments to support people in need continuously
focus – making a difference beyond our V alue chain – the h &m conscious foundation *
conscious action 7.8 Enable 73,600 children to benefit from early childhood development programmes 2017
conscious action 7.9 Provide 250,000 students with access to clean water and toilets in schools and educate them in hygiene practices 2017
conscious action 7.10 Provide 100,000 women in poor communities worldwide with skills training and/or seed capital to start up or expand their own business 2017
*These Conscious Actions are implemented by the H&M Conscious Foundation which as an independent non-profit organisation complements H&M’s sustainability work with strategic philanthropic programs.78 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013
Highlights 2013performance overviewcoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
from the life of kids’ shoes #0189155
300,000  
cotton farmers t rained in growing  
cotton with less environmental impact 
and with better livelihood for their  
communities since 2010.193,000 people  gained access to  
safe drinking water through the 
sales of H&M gift cards.
3,555,687 garments donated  
to charitable causes.since the start of our 
collaboration, H&M  
and WaterAid have provided
230,000  
people with access to  
clean water .sEK 500 million (approx. E ur 56  
million/ usd  78 million)  
additional funding to the  
H&M c onscious f oundation   
from the s tefan Persson family.
12,000 
additional jobs created (net).this ballerina shoe was 
sold for Eur 14.95/
usd  17.95 .
this way, it  
has contributed to  
empowering more  
than 1 million  
children   
since 2009.25%  of its sales 
price supported 
unIcEf’s work 
to improve access 
to education , 
health  and child 
protection   
in India and  
Bangladesh. 
79 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our missionOur strategyfocus: Investments in shared value along our value chaincoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
Prosperous and stable markets where human rights 
are respected, better-skilled people and a healthy 
environment benefit our business. In order to secure 
the long-term profitability and growth of H&M, we need to ensure that the communities that contribute 
to our success benefit from our presence. To achieve 
this, we need to make sure that the way we do busi -
ness contributes to their development and extend 
these impacts by making strategic investments that 
create shared value. This way, we make a difference to the livelihood of millions of people, to human rights and to the environment throughout our operations 
and along our value chain.We work across our operations, with 
our suppliers and more and more also 
with their suppliers to create jobs and 
better livelihoods for people, particu -
larly women, to promote human rights 
and to protect our environment. 
these are integral elements of the way 
we do business. Where we do not have 
business relations and our influence is 
weaker, we team up with our commu -
nity partners to drive development. We invest in initiatives and long-term 
collaborations that create shared 
value and help us extend positive impacts we create through our busi -
ness. Complementing these efforts, the H&M c onscious f oundation, as 
an independent non-profit founda -
tion, contributes to positive long-term change for people and communities beyond H&M’s value chain.
>hm.com/communities  
>hm.com/consciousfoundationtotal community in Vestments/donations
usd  5,221,503
Eur  3,915,758usd  6,125,000
Eur  4,501,330usd  4,613,075
Eur  3,390,195H&M
usd  817,558
Eur 612,715usd  107,567
Eur  79,052H&M c onsc Ious 
foundA tIon
2011 2012 2013usd  1,209,160
Eur  906,197usd 589,455
Eur 433,197custoME rsusd  1,436,443
Eur 1,055,657
usd  1,514,345
Eur 1,112,908communities 
along our value chain
communities beyond our 
value chainour 
operations  
& suppliersInv EstMEnts 
In sHA rEd 
vAluE  
along our  
value chain
MAKE A 
dIffE rEncE 
beyond  
H&M’s value  
 chain – the 
H&M c onscious 
foundationcrEAtE  
PosItIvE  
IMPA ct 
through  
the way we do  
business80 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our Conscious Actionsfocus: Investments in shared  
value along our value chaincoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
year-to-year7.1 c reate and contribute  
to employment opportunities
our aim is to increase the number 
of our stores by 10 to 15% each year. 
during 2013, we created more than 
12,000 additional jobs (net). o ver 
the last five years, our growth has entailed a net creation of more than 43,000 jobs globally. Additionally, our business contributes to job opportunities for around 1.6 million 
direct J ob creation (net addition)
Rounded figures, net addition to total number of employees.43,000 
additional jobs 
created (net) in the last  
five years
tot Al 2013 2012 2011 2010 20093,00011,000
7,00010,00012,00043,000people employed by our suppliers.  While the economic climate is challenging in many countries, we are confident that we will create further employment both in our own operations and throughout our value chain. 
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20187.2 e mpower over 1.7 million 
children through education, 
health and child protection 
through the a ll for c hildren 
project
the right to education is a univer -
sally-recognised human right and a 
prerequisite for sustainable develop -
ment and prosperity. All for c hildren 
is a unique collaboration between H&M and un IcEf through which we 
support un IcEf’s work in India and 
Bangladesh to protect this and other rights of some of the poorest children in the world. o ur goal is to empower 
1.7 million children through pre-school and primary education, health and child protection structures by 2018 at the latest. By 2013, we had already achieved this for over 1 mil -
lion children.no. o f children em Powered
2018
(GoAl)2013 2012660,0001 
MIllIon1.7
MIllIon81 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013coMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20157.3 help train 1 million 
cotton farmers to grow cotton with less impact on the envi -
ronment and with improved livelihood
We are an active member of the 
Better c otton Initiative (B cI). u sing 
increasingly more Better c otton to 
make our products is an essential part of our efforts to use only more sustainable cotton by 2020. t o 
secure the supply we need, we invest in training farmers to produce Better cotton. t hrough B cI’s implementa -
tion partners, WW f and s olidari -
dad, farmers receive the know-how and tools to produce more with less input, reducing their impact on the environment while also increasing their profitability and the welfare of the local communities. s ince 2010, 
about 300,000 farmers have been trained. t he goal is to train one mil -
lion farmers by 2015.
>bettercotton.org
2013 2012 2011Eur
600,000Eur
600,000Eur
850,000amount in Vested directly by 
h&m into bci farmer training 
Per year300,000  
cotton farmers have been trained in 
growing cotton with less environmental 
impact and with better livelihood for their 
communities since 2010
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20167.4 Provide at least 500,000 
people with access to safe 
water in countries where our 
products are made
768 million people in the world do 
not have access to clean water.* We want to play our part in tackling this challenge especially in the countries where our products are made. s ince 
the start of our partnership in 2002, our partner WaterAid has provided about 230,000 people with access to clean water. In 2013, we raised additional funding for them through 
*Source: WHO/UNICEF Progress on sani -
tation and drinking-water 2013 update.dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
20147.5 d evelop and roll out a 
new community development 
strategy
As we seek to constantly improve 
the way we work, we are currently in the process of creating an updated community development strategy. the aim is to integrate community 
development even more strategically into our business decisions through local investments that create shared value. We plan to roll out the strategy from 2014 onwards.Our Conscious Actions
Since the start of our collabo -
ration, H&M and WaterAid 
have provided 230,000 people 
with access to clean water.the sale of selected products in our 
swimwear range. Additionally, the H&M c onscious f oundation helped 
WaterAid to provide one family with access to clean water for each E ur 
10 (usd 10, GBP 10 etc.) sold in H&M 
(brand) gift cards during the holiday season. Just this will enable Wat -
erAid to provide another 193,000 people with access to clean water. With these actions, we are well on track to achieve our target.focus: Investments in shared  
value along our value chain82 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Our mission Our strategycoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
focus: Community support
In the case of an emergency, quick 
action is needed to ease the situa -
tion for the victims. n aturally, we 
see it as part of our responsibility to contribute whatever is required the 
most – clothes or money for example. 
Additionally, as a fashion company, we want to donate appropriate clothes 
to those in need wherever possible 
and at any time.We immediately discuss with commu -
nity partners to determine just what 
support is needed and how we can 
contribute to it. t hroughout the year, 
we donate as many clothes as possible 
to our aid partners.
dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
as requireddEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
as required7.6 Provide emergency relief 
in cases of humanitarian 
catastrophes7.7 d onate garments  
to support people in need
In 2013, India was affected by heavy 
flooding, forcing more than 150,000 people to flee from their homes. In response, the H&M c onscious f oun-
dation donated usd 100,000 to s ave 
the Children India’s relief efforts, enabling them to provide hygiene kits, water purification tablets, food baskets and warm blankets for 5,000 families in the worst affected villages. the foundation donated another usd  
100,000 to the r ed c ross for their 
initial rescue work after the devas -
tating typhoon Haiyan that hit the Philippines in n ovember. H&M c hina 
donated usd 100,000 to un IcEf’s 
efforts to help thousands of children affected by the powerful earthquake in southwestern s ichuan Province 
in china in April this year. d ona-
tions made by our local organisations and in-store collections for different causes in various markets through -
out the year all together totalled an additional usd  1.5 million.Each year, we donate large quanti -
ties of clothes to aid organisations in the countries in which we operate. We introduced an updated garment-donation policy and implementation guidance in 2010. o ur policy states 
that all unsold, safe-to-use products should be donated to charity or, if possible, recycled into something useful. In 2013, we donated more than 3.5 million garments globally to aid organisations.Our Conscious ActionsMore than 
3,555,687 
garments  donated  to 
charitable causes83 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Strategy MissioncoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
Focus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain  
– the H&M Conscious f oundation
the mission of the H&M c onscious 
foundation is to reach beyond H&M’s 
value chain and contribute to positive 
long-term change for people and com -
munities.As an independent non-profit organi -
sation, the H&M c onscious f ounda -
tion complements H&M’s sustainabil -
ity work with strategic philanthropic 
programmes. t hanks to a donation 
from the s tefan Persson family of s EK 
500 million (E ur 56 million/ usd  76 
million) in 2013, it is possible for the 
H&M c onscious f oundation to cre -
ate major impact. f ollowing a public 
vote in 2013, the f oundation focuses 
on three causes: Education, c lean 
Water and s trengthening Women. f or 
all three areas, the H&M c onscious 
foundation partnered with three 
world-renowned organisations in early 
2014. t hese programmes are large 
in scale and aim to be transforma -
tive by addressing structural barriers and promote new policy within each 
area. The three flagship programmes will in total receive 180 million s EK 
to drive change through from 2014 to 2017. Additionally, the H&M c on-
scious f oundation initiates local 
programmes with other organisations related to the three selected issues in countries where H&M operates.
>hm.com/consciousfoundation
© Wateraid/ anna K ari84 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 20137.8 e nable 73,600 children to 
benefit from early childhood 
development programmes7.9 Provide 250,000 students with access to clean water and toilets in schools and educate 
them in hygiene practices7.10 Provide 100,000 women 
in poor communities world -
wide with skills training and/
or seed capital to start up or 
expand their own businessConscious ActionscoMMI tMEnt s EvEn – s trEnGtHEn c oMM unItIEs
Focus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain  
– the H&M Conscious f oundation
the brain’s ability to develop is 
strongest before the age of eight. 
Especially early childhood care and education are important to lay the foundation for such development – for the individual child as well as for the entire community. However, approximately one-third of the chil -
dren under the age of five in devel -
oping countries are not achieving their development potential. Early childhood care is not commonly prioritised by government agencies or donors. t o help tackle this global 
challenge, the H&M c onscious 
foundation teamed up with un IcEf 
to invest in children’s early educa -
tion and development. This flagship programme aims to reach out to 73,600 children who will benefit from early childhood development programs by 2017. Additionally, the aim is to lift the topic on the global agenda by supporting three govern -
ments in integrating early childhood Imagine if you didn’t have access to a toilet or clean water. t his is the 
reality for over 50% of the students in low-income countries in their schools. this lack contributes to diseases, with 
negative impacts on education, but also has wider implications on gender equality, development and economic growth in these communities. t his is 
why the H&M c onscious f oundation 
partnered with WaterAid to provide 250,000 students with access to clean water and toilets in schools and edu -
cate them in hygiene practices. Beyond this, the programme will advocate, influence and support policymakers on national and regional level and lobby for the Post2015 framework and the un s ustainable d evelopment 
Goals to include a goal on water and sanitation, with one of the targets being for all schools globally to provide safe water, sanitation and hygiene.
>wateraid.orgthe majority of the world’s poor are 
women and girls. Women work two-
thirds of the world’s working hours, yet they earn a mere 10% of the global income and own just 1% of the prop -
erty. Women often have less access to education, financial resources and services and even limited rights to own and inherit property. In turn, studies show that when women expe -
rience equal rights, this benefits the dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2017dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2017dEAdlInE MorE to do on tr AcK don E
2017development in their development agendas and national budgets as well as by creating the first ever Global r eport on Early c hildhood 
development, providing the neces -
sary data to base policies on and measure their success. 
>unicef.orgwhole society. In partnership with 
the international humanitarian and development organisation c ArE, the 
H&M c onscious f oundation there -
fore is committed to strengthening women in developing countries. o ne 
of the goals is to provide 100,000 women in poor communities world -
wide with business skills training and/or seed capital to start-up or expand their business. Beyond that, the programme aims to break down myths and beliefs about what women can and cannot do through organ -
izing dedicated, regional campaigns with inspiring role models and by advocating policy changes needed to ensure more women can reach their full potential and exercise their rights.
>care.org
© a uSi Petreliu S/careChildren, who 
receive early  
childhood care and education, are more likely to learn, stay 
in school and gradu -
ate from school   
Helena t hybell, Global 
Manager H&M c onscious 
foundation85 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Infor MAt Ion
We are committed to trans -
parent reporting on sustain -
ability and the progress we 
make towards meeting our seven commitments.
H&M’s c onscious Actions s ustain -
ability r eport, which is produced 
annually, covers material sustain -
ability strategies, activities and 
performance for the global Group operations of H & M Hennes & Mauritz 
AB (also called H&M in this report), 
including all its brands (H&M, cos , 
Weekday, Monki, c heap Monday, & 
other s tories) as well as its wholly or 
partially-owned subsidiaries glob -
ally during our financial year from 1 
december 2012 to 30 n ovember 2013, 
unless stated otherwise (for a full list of entities, please see our Annual 
report 2013). u nless stated, franchise 
operations are not included.
the report was reviewed by the high -
est executive management and exter -
nal assurance has been performed 
for selected indicators as well as in regards to materiality and stakeholder 
engagement. Additional stakeholder reviews have been performed and 
commentary statements are included 
in this report.
We aim to tackle impacts whereever 
they occur in our value chain, and this 
is reflected in our reporting whereever possible. 
Additional information is provided  
at hm.com/conscious as well as in our financial and corporate governance 
reporting. o ur most recent report was 
published in March 2013. 
We are signatories to the un Global 
compact, and our annual s ustainabil -
ity r eport also serves as our c ommu -
nication on Progress ( coP).
All data is collected by our sustain -
ability team from the relevant func -
tions within our organisation and 
from external parties. It is reviewed 
by our controllers and relevant experts in our sustainability team as 
well as expert functions. All data is 
based on the best possible systems that are currently available to us 
and where applicable aligned with 
recognised standards. However, this needs to be seen in the light of continued improve -
ments of data systems, methodologies and scientific 
uncertainties. While our GHG emissions account -
ing and reporting is aligned with the GHG Protocol 
and the emission factors we use are from publicly 
available sources such as the International Energy 
Agency (IEA), GHG emission data is subject to inherent uncertainties due to incomplete scientific 
knowledge used to determine emissions factors and 
resulting effects on measurements and estimations. 
Unless otherwise specified, all data concerning 
suppliers and supplier factories includes all suppli -
ers and factories that were active and approved for 
production during the reporting period. f actories 
included in our scope are 1st tier manufacturing or processing (i.e. washing or dyeing), factories that are owned or subcontracted by our suppliers as well 
as (where stated) selected 2nd tier suppliers and 
suppliers for non-commercial goods (such as store interior suppliers).
Monetary amounts are reported in s EK. Where 
provided in other currencies, these are conversions 
as approximate figures based on the conversion rate on 30 n ovember 2013, unless stated otherwise. 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
this report is prepared in accordance with the G rI 
G4 s ustainability r eporting Guidelines ( core). We 
have additionally included material indicators from the pilot of the Apparel and f ootwear 
Sector Supplement. You can find the 
detailed G rI index at hm.com/gri .
Process for identifying the  
most material aspects and their boundaries
The process for defining the report 
content and the aspect boundaries 
have been based on the following 
main steps:
Identification: Mapping aspects and 
creating a gross list 
We have identified a gross list of aspects through an analysis of exter -
nal standards such as the G rI G4 
Aspect list, legislation, investor and nGo questionnaires, peer reviews, 
business intelligence, lifecycle assess -
ment results, stakeholder dialogue 
and stakeholder reports as well as 
media coverage.
the gross list has been checked 
against G rI’s s ustainability c ontext 
and s takeholder Inclusiveness tests. 
Prioritisation: Scoring and  
prioritising aspects
to prioritise the most material How we report86 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Infor MAt Ion
aspects from this gross list, we scored the different 
aspects in regards to their influence on stakeholder 
assessment and decisions and their significance 
of economic, environmental and social impacts. Both categories were broken down into a number 
of different categories such as frequency raised by 
key stakeholders (weighted x3), frequency fea -
tured in media (weighted x1) and frequency raised 
in key sustainability benchmarks, rankings and 
indices (weighted x1) (to determine the influence on stakeholder assessment and decisions) as well 
as social and environmental impacts (weighted x1) 
and importance to business strategy (weighted x2) (to determine the significance of economic, envi -
ronmental and social impacts). s cores have been 
given by at least two internal experts per category as well as based on lifecycle assessment ( lcA) data 
and existing strategy documents. t his way, about 
60 aspects could be identified as material. For the sake of user friendliness, these were thematically 
clustered into 25 focus areas and gathered in a 
materiality matrix (p. 87).
the impact scoring as well as the boundary descrip -
tions were checked against G rI’s reasonability tests.
Validation of materiality matrix with key  
stakeholders
to validate the matrix, we selected at least one rep -
resentative from each of our key stakeholder groups 
(including: customers, colleagues, communities,  suppliers and their employees, indus -
try peers, NGOs, IGOs, policymakers 
and investors ). 11 stakeholder repre -
sentatives were asked to provide feed -
back on this materiality matrix. t hese 
organisations were chosen based 
on their know-how, their ability to 
make professional and critical judge -
ments, and the coverage of aspects 
potentially material. t heir comments 
were gathered systematically and are 
incorporated in the materiality matrix 
published in this report. 
the feedback from our external 
stakeholder representatives at large 
confirmed this materiality analysis. no aspect was considered missing, 
but based on their feedback we moved the positioning of four aspects in the matrix. 
throughout this process we have 
used the principles of defining report 
content in order to secure a robust 
process. How we report
87 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013How we reportInfor MAt Ioninfluence on s takeholder a ssessments and decisions
significance of economic, en Vironmental and social im PactsrEP ort Ed At lEAst I n nArrAtIvE, 
WHE rEvEr Poss IBlE WI tH 
MEA sur ABlE KPI.rEP ort Ed I n dEtAIl, WHEr EvEr 
Poss IBlE WI tH MEA sur ABlE KPI or 
PrEfErABlY GoAl, AIM for EX tErnAl 
Assur AncE WHEr EvEr us Eful.
no rEPort InG 
or r EPort InG on r EQuEst.rEP ort Ed At lEAst I n nArrAtIvE, 
WHEr EvEr P oss IBlE 
WItH MEA sur ABlE KPI.asPects included
1. Materials (G4), Products and s ervices (G4), Product 
and s ervice l abelling (G4) 2 . sustainable c ustomer 
Behavioural c hange 3 . Purchasing Practices, s upplier 
Environmental Assessments (G4), s upplier Assessments 
labour Practices (G4), Investments (Human r ights) 
(G4), s upplier Human r ights Assessments (G4), Human 
rights Grievance Mechanisms (G4), s upplier c apacity 
Building, Strategies to Expand Influence over Entire 
value c hain 4 . labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms 
(G4), n on-discrimination (G4), c hild l abour (G4), 
forced or c ompulsory l abour (G4), o vertime in s up-
ply c hain, u zbek c otton, s umangali s chemes, s upply 
chain Workers Health & s afety 5 . fair l iving Wages in 
supply c hain 6 . freedom of Association and c ollective 
Bargaining (G4) 7 . Anti- corruption (G4) 8 . Employment 
(G4), l abour/Management r elations (G4), o ccupational 
Health & s afety (G4), t raining and Education (G4), 
Employee s atisfaction 9 . Investment (G4), Assessments 
(G4), Human r ights Grievance Mechanisms (G4) 10 . 
diversity and Equal o pportunity (G4), n on-discrimina -
tion (G4) 11 . Marketing c ommunications (G4), c ustomer 
Privacy (G4) 12 . Energy (G4), Emissions (G4) 13 . End of 
life solutions/ circular Economy s trategies. 14  Effluents 
and waste (G4). 15  Packaging (G4). 16  Water (G4) 17 . 
Effluents and Waste (G4), Customer Health & Safety (G4). 18 . Indirect Economic Impacts (G4), l ocal c ommu -
nities (G4) 19 . Economic Performance (G4). 20 . Market 
Presence (G4) 21 . Biodiversity (G4) 22 . overall (G4) 23 . 
Anti-competitive Behaviour (G4) 24 . responsible t ax 
Planning 25 . Animal Welfare
>globalreporting.orgMateriality matrix
1
23
45
6
789
10
111213
14
151617
1819
2021
22 232425Prov IdE fAsHIon 
for consc Ious 
custoME rs
cHoos E And
rEWA rd rE sPons IBlE 
PArtn Ers
BE E tHI cAl
rEduc E, rEusE, 
rEcYcl E
usE nAtur Al 
rEsourc Es 
rEsPons IBlY
strEnGHtE n 
coMM unItIEs
otHErBE cl IMA tE sMArtfocus areas our commitments
consc Ious P roducts A nd 
MAt ErIAls
Involv E our custo MErs A nd 
collEAG uEs
suPPlY cHAI n MA nAGEME nt
IMProv Ed su PPl IEr 
PErfor MAncE
fAIr lIvInG WAGE s
Industr IAl rE lAtIons
Ant I-corru PtIon
EMPloYEr of c HoIcE
HuMAn rIGH ts
dIvErsItY & EQuAlItY
rEsPons IBlE MA rKEtInG
clIMA tE (Emissions from our  
own operations; Emissions along  
our value chain)
clos E tHE loo P on t EXtIlE 
fIBrEs
WAstE
PAcKAGI nG
WAtEr stEWA rds HIP
cHEMI cAl MA nAGEME nt
coMM unItY dEvEloPME nt 
(Investments in shared value; 
community support; Making a 
difference beyond H&M’s value chain  – the H&M c onscious f oundation)
Econo MIc PE rfor MAncE
MArKE t PrEsEncE
BIodI vErsItY
Env Iron MEntAl EXPE ndItur Es
Ant I-coMPE tItIvE BEHA vIour
rEsPons IBlE tAX P lAnnInG
AnIMA l WElf ArE1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1413
15
16
17
18
19
21
22
23
24
252088 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Infor MAt Ion
to the m anagement of h & m h ennes 
& m auritz ab
We have been engaged by the manage -
ment of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB 
(H & M) to perform a limited review on 
the information in H & M’s c onscious 
Actions s ustainability r eport 2013 
with regards to the following indica -
tors referred to in the G rI index that 
can be found in the ’G rI index 2013’:
– Identified material aspects and boundaries (G4-17 – G4-23), p. 85–87
– stakeholder engagement (G4-24 – 
G4-27), p. 11
– Energy: Energy consumption within 
the organization (G4-E n3), p. 55
Energy intensity (G4-E n5), p. 55
reduction of energy consumption  
(G4-E n6), p. 55
– Emissions: d irect greenhouse gas
emissions (scope 1), (G4-E n15), p. 55
Energy indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions (scope 2), (G4-E n16), p. 55, 
other indirect greenhouse gas emis -
sions (scope 3), (G4-E n17), p. 57
– Materials: Materials used by weight 
or volume (G4-E n1), p. 16 t ons of  
garments collected for reuse and recy -
cling, p. 62– supply c hain: Incidents of non- compliance with c ode of c onduct 
(Af14), p. 30
– Anti-corruption: Confirmed inci -
dents of corruption and actions taken (G4- so5), p. 42 
H & M’s c onscious Actions s ustain -
ability r eport 2013 covers the period  
1 december 2012–30 n ovember 2013.
management’s responsibility
the Management of H & M is respon -
sible for ongoing activities and for preparing and presenting the H & M c onscious Actions s ustainabil -
ity r eport in accordance with the 
reporting criteria as set out in the company’s own reporting guide -
lines as well as the Global r eporting 
Initiative’s (G rI) Guidelines G4. As 
discussed in the section "How we 
report", p. 85 in the H & M c onscious 
Actions s ustainability r eport, green -
house gas quantification is subject 
to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used 
to determine emissions factors and 
the values needed to combine emis -
sions of different gases.auditor’s responsibility
our responsibility is to carry out a 
limited review engagement and, based on our work performed, to express an independent conclusion on the 
above specified indicators in the H & 
M conscious Actions s ustainability 
report. t he selection of indicators 
to be reviewed has been made by the management of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB. We do not accept, nor assume responsibility to anyone else, 
except to H & M for our work, for the 
limited assurance report, or for the conclusion that we have reached. We 
have conducted the limited assurance 
engagement in accordance with the International s tandard on Assurance 
Engagements (I sAE) 3000 ’Assurance 
Engagements o ther than Audits or 
reviews of Historical f inancial Infor -
mation’. t he IsAE 3000 standard 
requires that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform 
the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on whether any 
matters have come to our attention 
that would cause us to believe that the above specified information in the H 
& M c onscious Actions s ustainability 
report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with 
the reporting criteria.
A limited review is provided only on 
the information disclosed in the H & M conscious Actions s ustainability 
report, not on information linked 
to and disclosed on other web pages. We have not been engaged to provide 
assurance on amounts or other disclo -
sures relating to the prior reporting 
periods presented in the H & M c on-
scious Actions s ustainability r eport. 
the presented information in the H 
& M c onscious Actions s ustainability 
report is to be considered in connec -
tion with the explanatory information on data collection, consolidation and assessments provided by H & M. t his 
independent review report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting H & M’s performance in 
relation to its principles of corporate 
responsibility.
our review procedures are designed 
to obtain limited assurance on 
whether the above specified indica -
tors are presented in accordance with 
the s ustainability r eporting Guide -
lines of the Global r eporting Initia -
tive, G4, in all material respects. A Auditor’s review report89 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Infor MAt Ion
limited review engagement consists of 
making inquiries, primary of persons 
responsible for the preparation of the 
H & M c onscious Actions s ustainabil -
ity r eport and applying analytical and 
other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. t he evidence gather -
ing procedures mentioned above are 
more limited than for a reasonable 
assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a 
reasonable assurance engagement.
We have performed, among others, 
the following procedures:
• interviews with the responsible 
management, at group level in  order to assess if the qualitative and 
quantitative information stated in the 
H & M c onscious Actions s ustainabil -
ity r eport regarding the above speci -
fied indicators is complete, accurate and sufficient,• shared internal and external docu -
ments in order to assess if the infor -
mation shared in the H & M c onscious 
Actions s ustainability r eport is 
complete, accurate and sufficient,• an evaluation of the design of the systems and processes used to obtain, 
manage and validate sustainability information,• an evaluation of the model used to 
calculate co
2 emissions,
• analytical procedures regarding the 
above specified indicators.
conclusion
Based on our work described in this 
report, nothing has come to our atten -
tion that causes us to believe that the information regarding the above 
specified indicators in the H & M Con -
scious Actions s ustainability r eport 
has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the 
reporting criteria stated above.
stockholm, 10 April 2014
Ernst & Young AB  Åsa l undvall
Authorized Public Accountant
charlotte s öderlund
Authorized Public Accountant
Auditor’s review report90 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013What our stakeholders say about this reportInfor MAt Ion
Stakeholder review statements
Before publishing this report, 
we shared it with some of our 
key stakeholders and asked 
them what they think about it. Here is what they said.
niels o skam , Founder,  
Rank a Brand
H&M manages to report a broad range 
of sustainability issues every year 
with significant information. Such a 
level of transparency is not just about opening up, it can only come with true 
milestones: ambitious plans, continu -
ous progress and performance that 
are relevant to the worldwide scale of 
operations. 
H&M delivers each year again. f or 
example, the use of ’environmentally preferred’ raw materials passed the 
10% milestone last year. Almost half of H&M’s leather shoes are made with 
certified leather. The public list of 
supplier factories now covers 100% of production. d eeper down the produc -
tion chain, H&M included already 20% of the suppliers to suppliers into its labour conditions monitoring pro -
gram. And H&M is the first fashion change throughout its supply chain. H&M is also 
one of few companies that demonstrate a high level 
of production traceability by publishing its supplier factory list. A key achievement in 2013 is the f air 
Wage l iving strategy, which aims to implement well-
functioning pay structures at its suppliers. If success -
ful, this will enable workers to cover their basic needs 
without working overtime, which subsequently will 
lead to more stable production and higher productiv -
ity. A key challenge for the company to address is the 
short lifespan of clothing products in general, which 
makes the industry inherently unsustainable. H&M is working on several initiatives to address this and 
this year the company launched its first closed-loop 
products made from recycled materials collected in H&M stores, enabling the company to decrease the 
use of virgin resources in its production. t his is an 
important initiative given rising raw material costs 
and an expanding global middle class, which puts 
increasing pressure on the environment. f urther -
more, H&M along with its industry needs to further 
raise awareness amongst consumers, enabling them 
to make informed decisions when buying, using and 
disposing of clothing products.
Janet m ensink , International Program  
Coordinator Sustainable Cotton & Textiles,  
Solidaridad Network
first of all we want to compliment H&M on another 
step to create more transparency in its sustainabil -ity policy and most of all its achieve -
ments. In line with the past editions, it 
sets the example for the industry. t he 
back up by the strong commitment 
on sustainability from the top can 
be read from the c Eo’s introduction 
words. t he clear vision as presented 
in the 7 commitments is very strong. considering the fact that H&M sources 
from 1,900 factories reaching 1,6 mil -
lion people of which 65% women, the potential to change is immense.
Encouraging to notice is our shared 
analysis and approach on increasing the sustainability of the sector:– the urgency to address sustainabil -
ity now more then ever and work on this in a holistic way– the context of expected future  
scarcity of resources (water, energy, raw materials)– the need for a collaborative approach 
with suppliers, stakeholders and peers– the approach to link purchase prac -
tices in the supply chain performance 
and go beyond monitoring suppliers 
but instead provide support through capacity building
We see the f air l iving Wage r oad-
map, the waste garment collecting and recycling initiative and the introduc -retailer to clearly address the issue of living wages for the garment workers, 
which is a big promise for the fashion 
industry and hopefully reality for gar -
ment workers in the next few years. 
H&M is the clear front runner 
amongst the fashion retailers that are active on the d utch and German 
markets. t he steady movement of 
H&M towards fair and sustainable fashion deserves all the support from 
customers.
ylVa hannestad , Director,  
Responsible Investments & Identity, 
Nordea Bank AB
Given H&M’s strong brand and large 
operational footprint the company is required to address and manage 
several sustainability concerns. Key 
aspects include labour practices in its supply chain and the environmental 
impact of its products throughout 
the whole lifecycle. H&M has a well-developed supply chain management 
system, which – beyond auditing and 
monitoring – also addresses develop -
ing suppliers and rewarding responsi -
ble suppliers. By taking this additional step, H&M strives to create lasting 91 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013tion of organic leather as highlights in 
innovation in 2013. t he achievements 
in sustainable cotton (15.8% com -
pared to 11.4% last year) can be con -
sidered impressive. t he sustainability 
performance score at supplier level is more or less within the same range for the past few years. We hope to see an 
equal increase ratio on this indicator 
next year. Implementation of tools like the Higg index and alignment of 
the capacity building programmes on 
mill and factory level should contrib -
ute to reaching that goal. 
the structure of the report is 
consistent with a clear link between policy, targets, implementation and 
achievements. t he overview of impact 
and challenges along the value chain 
(page 7-8) is very strong and a power -
ful tool for strategy and communica -
tion. In this tool however, we think the social impact should be added too 
(next to water and climate).
the analyses are thorough, provid -
ing good insight in the performance. We think the achievements on some 
indicators (for example on water savings and waste garments) could 
be made more meaningful if relative 
numbers were also provided. In future editions we would like to learn more about the challenges also, for instance in Bangladesh and c ambodia which 
obviously are there. t his may help to 
understand the complicated issues better and contribute to a dialogue on 
solutions with stakeholders. 
lastly, H&M took a brave step 
last year to provide transparency on its supplier base. Many brands 
and retailers are still not ready for this. H&M however has announced 
to increase the transparency level 
from 95% to 100% this year. We would encourage H&M to share its experi -
ences with peers as again it would serve as an inspiration to others! 
daniel r obertsson  and l ena 
tham , Corporate Relations  
& Market Transformation, WWFWW f welcomes the opportunity to 
comment on H&M’s sustainability 
report. We will focus on issues within 
our field of expertise but this should not be interpreted that we think 
social issues are less important, it is 
rather our firm belief that social and environmental issues are intrinsically 
interlinked with equal importance for sustainable development. c Eo Karl-Johan Persson’s 
statement on the necessity of considering H&M’s 
ecological footprint and the imperative to stay within 
the boundaries of one planet is an important mes -
sage. s ustainability is increasingly a pre-competitive 
issue and will require innovations, not only in materials and production but equally important in 
the customer offer. New platforms but also enhanced collaboration within existing networks is crucial 
and part of what is called for to be an industry 
leader. WW f and H&M are jointly implementing 
H&M’s Water s tewardship s trategy, which contains 
concrete objectives. Progress in delivering on this ambitious strategy is good. It inspires other fashion brands to take action and to join collective actions 
in the textile production regions. t he reporting on 
water issues is relevant, transparent and summa -
rises activities well. H&M’s statement that progress on more sustainable cotton is on track is reassuring 
as ambitions and efforts are commendable. New pilots and initiatives such as “closed loop products” 
and “garment collection systems” are inspiring 
and promising. As a next step we suggest H&M to consider developing and communicating targets 
and time-bound plans for other important materials 
including indirect materials e.g. packaging and in-store. H&M has a comprehensive model for working 
with the supply chain and rewarding good sustain -
able business performance. u pdating the method of 
assessing suppliers’ sustainability performance to an even more extensive version is commendable. We encourage H&M to work together with 
other brands to increase scale and to assure that shared suppliers face 
coherent sets of requirements. H&M 
has taken a big and important step in the new absolute reduction approach 
on co
2 instead of setting intensity 
targets. As a next step we recommend H&M to set quantified and absolute 
reduction target for post 2015. H&M should also more thoroughly describe 
all scope 3 emissions in their value 
chain, with measured data as far as 
possible, and emission reduction activ -
ities. t argets and actions along with 
the ultimate goal of 100% renewable energy should be concretised in a time-
bound plan including baseline data. from an environmental perspective 
H&M has in many areas made consid -
erable efforts and progress including both internal actions as well as beyond 
factory lines. t o be able to give more 
justice to H&M’s progress we would in 
future reports welcome a more com -
prehensive summary based on clear targets, year-to-year progress and industry comparability. WW f looks 
forward to following H&M’s future endeavours at the forefront of sustain -
able development in their sector. What our stakeholders say about this reportInfor MAt Ion
Stakeholder review statements92 of 92
H&M Cons Cious a Ctions sustainability report 2013Infor MAt Ion
More information
To find out more about H&M Conscious 
and our policies and strategies, read 
case studies, watch videos and much 
more, please visit hm.com/conscious .
Contact
We appreciate your feedback.  Please send your questions or  
comments regarding this report  
to hendrik.alpen@hm.com.get in touch
Thank you for taking the time  
to learn about  
H&M ConsC ious