CoverA   H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONSCIOUS *
ACTIONS  
S
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2011
*  is the name of all the work we do to 
o
ffer you more sustainable fashion, 
both today and tomorrow Please think
before you print H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011CONTENTS 
h&m Cons Ci ous
 a  m
essage from our C eo  1
 o ur s
trategy  4
 o ur
 value chain and its challenges  6
 e ng
aging with our stakeholders  8
 m ana
gement and Governance  10
 h ow we r
eport  11
 h ig
hlights from h&m C
onscious in 2011  13
ProVid
e f
ashion  f
or Con
sCio
us Cus
tomers   17
Cho
ose  and  r
eward  r
esPons
ible  Part
ners   26
be e
thiCal  
 48
be Clima
te s
mart   57
re
duCe, r
euse , r
eCyCle  65
us
e n
atural  r
esour Ces r
esPon
sibly   70
st
ren Gth
en Com
munities   79
C
onta Ct i
nformation  87CONSCIOUS ACTIONS
SUS
TAINA bIlITy r
epOrT 2
011
Contents
1  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
A me SSA ge fr Om O Ur CeO
karl -Johan PerssonAt H&M, our business concept 
is to offer fashion and quality at the best price. For us, 
sustainability is at the core of the concept of quality and part of our corporate values. 
Our customers are the heart of our 
business. They are increasingly showing an interest in sustainability and we want them to feel confident that everything they buy from us is produced with respect for people and the environment. Adding sustainability value to our products is therefore an important way of strengthening our customer offering.
H&M is a design-driven and 
innovative fashion company. We currently have five brands and around 2,500 stores in 43 countries on four continents. In 2011, we entered exciting new markets in Singapore, Romania, Croatia and, via franchise, Morocco and Jordan. In 2012, we plan to open first stores in Bulgaria, Latvia, Malaysia, Mexico, and, via franchise, Thailand. Our goal is to increase our number of stores, in both new and existing markets, by 10–15% each year. 
In pursuing this growth, we want 
to make more sustainable fashion accessible and affordable to more people around the world. To achieve this, we must tackle the challenges that H&M and the entire fashion industry unquestionably face. These include climate change, working conditions and wages at supplier factories and the long-term availability of natural resources, to mention just a few.
“Our vision is clear: All our operations should be run in a way that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable.” “Our customers  are the heart  of our business.”H&M CONSCIOUS
Contents
2  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
A me SSA ge f rOm O Ur CeO
To put this vision into practice,  
we have developed H&M Conscious – our approach to integrating our sustainable thinking into everything we do. Last year, we set out our seven strategic commitments. Working to fulfil these commitments, we are continuously creating what we call ‘Conscious Actions’ throughout our business. These are activities and targets designed to move us closer  to our vision. In this report, you can  read about the progress we have made in taking these Conscious Actions.I’m very proud of all our achievements over the past year, but a number of things really stand out. One of the highlights of 2011 was that we, together with various stakeholders and experts, developed a dedicated plan to support social development in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is one of our most important sourcing markets and we want to ensure that the garment industry has a positive impact on the country’s development, not just by contributing jobs, but also skills, education, health, and improvements in labour and women’s rights. 
To build a more sustainable  
fashion future, our industry needs  to keep finding new ways of using resources as responsibly and efficiently as possible.I am particularly proud to see that H&M is now using more organic cotton than any other company in the world. This is just the start. Our target is to use only sustainable cotton by 2020. A further increase in our use of organic cotton will be a part of that, but this year also saw the first clothes made from Better Cotton hit H&M stores around the world. Reducing stress 
“ Adding sustainability value to our products  is an important way  to further strengthen our customer offering.”
“I’m proud to see that H& m i
s the world’s biggest user of  organic cotton.”on the environment and improving social conditions for farmers, Better Cotton will have a key role to play in helping us reach our target. 
We also continued to introduce 
new innovative materials. Our first garments made from organic hemp were launched. This fibre has a limited environmental impact and, we believe, great potential for the future.H&M CONSCIOUS
Contents
3  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011A me SSA ge f rOm O Ur CeO
Given H&M’s size and increasingly 
global reach, we have a big impact on the world around us. But just as big are the opportunities we have to make a difference through the Conscious Actions we take. Our scale means that we have the opportunity to promote change well beyond the borders of our own operations – for example, by promoting improvements in the working conditions of the more than one million people around the world who work in our suppliers’ factories. But in order to tackle the complex challenges across our industry, we need to collaborate with others.
We play an active role in initiatives 
like the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, the UN Global Compact and the Better Cotton Initiative, which are vital to meeting our goals. In 2011, we joined the Fair Wage Network, an initiative that works  to promote fair wages in global  supply chains; an ambition that  we fully support. We also engaged “Our scale means that we have the opportunity to promote change well beyond the borders of our own operations.”with Greenpeace and teamed-up with a number of fashion and sportswear brands to help lead our industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals in our  value chain. 
We are proud of all the achievements 
we have made during the year. But we are also aware of the challenges ahead. We strive to be as transparent as possible about the progress we make. This report is an important part of that. Thank you for taking your time to learn about our Conscious Actions.
Karl-Johan Persson
CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz ABH&M CONSCIOUS
“In order to  fulfil our commitments and tackle  the complex challenges in  our industry,  we need to collaborate  with others.”
Contents
4  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
H&M CONSCIOUS
OU r STrATe gy
H&M Conscious is the 
name for all H&M’s work for a more sustainable 
fashion future. It is an approach to managing our business based on the vision that all our operations should be run in a way that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. This means that the needs of both present and future generations should be respected in everything that we do.
People, planet and profit: at H&M, 
we believe that being fully aware of the interconnected nature of these three elements is the key to the long-term success of our business. 
In order to help us achieve our 
vision, we broke it down into seven strategic, long-term commitments. 1Provide fashion for 
conscious customers3 Be ethical
5Reduce, reuse,  recycle 4Be climate smart
7 Strengthen communities 6Use natural resources responsibly Choose and reward responsible partners2
Contents
5  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
a pr Odu CT’S l ifE CyClEH&M CONSCIOUS
OU r STrATe gy
These commitments are an integral element 
of our business strategy and they cover every stage of our product life cycle, from designing our fashion to how our customers care for the garments they buy. Based on constant dialogue with our external stakeholders and our colleagues across the business, we have built a process to identify and prioritise the actions that we need to take over the short and medium term to help us to meet each of these long term commitments. We call all these our Conscious Actions. Throughout the year we monitor the progress we make towards completing these actions, review and improve our methods and add more actions as our understanding of how to fulfil our commitments improves.
This report sets out the Conscious Actions we 
have taken or worked towards during 2011 and describes how far we have come in making the vision of H&M Conscious a reality.H&M aims to offer fashion and quality at the best price. In doing this, we have an impact on the world around us. We 
create job opportunities and contribute towards economic growth, but we also use natural resources and cause carbon emissions. As a result, we face a number of sustainability challenges throughout our value chain. H&M Conscious aims to tackle these challenges and, in doing so, create new opportunities for long term business success.
To demonstrate what we mean, on the following 
pages we have set out the biggest challenges at each stage of the life cycle of our products. Below each stage we have listed in which section of this report you can find more information about the Conscious Actions through which we work to address these challenges.
For those challenges most closely related to our 
core operations, H&M has the ability to directly influence the impact we make. For others, our influence is more indirect; for example, we can make a difference through our choices about what goods and services we buy, by working closely with our business partners, or by collaborating with our stakeholders to tackle the challenges that we share with our industry and with the communities in which we operate. 
t-shirt , orGan iC Cot ton
Contents
6  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
OU r V A lUe C HAIN AND ITS CHA ll eNgeS
fa br i C 
prOC
ESS iNg
leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
fabric production can require 
i
ntensive use of chemicals, 
raising concerns for the 
environment and for the health of workers. 
we do n
ot have 
direct business relationships with fabric mills, but we have nevertheless started to build up voluntary partnerships with a number of mills to work together towards improvements.
Read more in: 
  Choose and reward 
r
esponsible partners
   Use natural resources r
esponsiblydES igN
leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
sustainability starts with the 
v
ery first design idea. It’s about 
the materials we choose and 
how easy we make it for our customers to care for their clothes in a conscious way. 
our c
hallenge is to offer our 
customers fashion that they  can afford and that they love  for several seasons.
Read more in: 
  Provide fashion for  
c
onscious customers 
   Reduce, reuse, recycle
   Use natural resources re
sponsiblyraw m a T Er i a lS
leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
Producing raw materials like 
cotton requires a lot of water and goes with concerns about chemical use and working conditions. 
we do n
ot purchase 
any raw materials directly, but we work hard to increase our influence over the way they are produced through collaborations and by driving demand for sustainable alternatives.
Read more in:
  Provide fashion for 
c
onscious customers
  Use natural resources r
esponsibly 
   Reduce, reuse, recycleH&M CONSCIOUS
Contents
7  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Tr a NSpOrT
 leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
being present on four continents 
r
equires a lot of transportation. 
this
 causes carbon emissions. 
by c
hoosing the right modes 
of transport we can reduce 
this impact massively. and
, 
as a customer, we also use our influence to promote environmental consciousness among our transport providers.
Read more in: 
  Be c
limate smart
  Ch
oose and reward 
responsible partners
 Be e
thicaluSE
leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
the way our customers take 
c
are of our products has a major 
environmental impact. fro
m a life 
cycle perspective, most energy is consumed when consumers wash and dry their clothes. 
we a
re working to 
influence how our customers care for their 
h&m p
urchases and to promote 
the recycling of used garments.
Read more in: 
  Pr
ovide fashion for  
conscious customers
  Be c
limate smart
   Re
duce, reuse, recycle
 St
rengthen communitiesSalES
leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
our around 2,500 stores in 43 countries 
a
re where most of our colleagues work. 
thi
s is also where about 90% of our 
direct energy use occurs. our c
hallenge 
is to ensure that we live our corporate values and that we work in a resource efficient way wherever we operate.
Read more in: 
 Be e
thical
  Be c
limate smart
  Re
duce, reuse, 
recycle
  S
trengthen 
communitiesOU r V A lUe C HAIN AND ITS CHA ll eNgeS
maNuf a CTuri Ng
leVel of influen Ce :
direct  in direct
h&m d oes not own any factories. 
ins
tead, around 750 independent 
suppliers make our goods. ens
uring 
high social and environmental standards can be a challenge. 
we 
mon
itor compliance with our Code 
of Conduct in all their factories regularly. 
but t
ackling complex 
issues, such as fair wages or overtime, remains a challenge in our industry. Providing training for our suppliers and supporting workers’ involvement is one way to address this. Collaboration with others in the industry and beyond is another.
Read more in: 
  Ch
oose and reward  
responsible partners
  Be e
thical
  Use
 natural resources 
responsibly   
  Be c
limate smart
   S
trengthen communities  H&M CONSCIOUS
Contents
8  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Close collaboration with our 
stakeholders, both internal and external, is essential in 
enabling us to tackle the challenges we face throughout our value chain.
There are a lot of people that 
contribute to the success of our business, from cotton farmers and workers in our suppliers’ factories to our in-store colleagues and our customers. Each of our stakeholder groups has their own perspective on our business.
Throughout the year, we try to 
maintain regular dialogue with each major group. This helps not only to gain an insight into their needs and viewpoints, but also serves to ensure that we benefit from the broader understanding of our business that they can often offer.Usually, this engagement is done directly through our relevant in-house teams. Other times, it is through actively taking part, and often a lead, in various multi-stakeholder initiatives.
The table on page 9 sets out our 
key stakeholder groups, some of the ways we engage with them and what we have learned their main areas of concern to be.
We want to take Conscious Actions 
on the issues that are most material to our business and the input we receive from our stakeholders helps us to prioritise the Conscious Actions we take and the resources we invest in them.
 hm.com/whatotherssayH&M C ONSCIOUS
eNgAgINg WI TH OU r ST AK eHO lDe rS
63% 
Of OU r C O l leag UeS  
ar
e C
Ove
red by  
CO lle CtIve
 barga IN
INg 
a
gree MeNtSeStI M ated 10m 
INterv Iew S wItH  
faCtOr
y w Or
k er S  
CO
NdU
Cte
d
8 .7 m
 fa NS O N  faCebOO k
Co
ntents
9  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011CUS tOM erS COM MUNI tIeS eM plOyee S SUppl IerS pOlICy-Mak erS NgOs INveStOrS 
H&M is a customer-focused 
company. Understanding and meeting their needs is at the core of everything we do. 
•	 In-store
	cus
tomer	 
 in
teractions
•	 Customer 	servic
e	 
 or
ganisation
•	 Social	media	(8.7	million
 
 Fa
cebook fans, 
 600,000 Twit
ter  
	 followers)
•	 Market 	r
esearch
•	 Consumer 	media
•	
Consumer 	or
ganisations
•	 Product 	design
•	
Product	qualit
y	and	 
	
durability
•	 Product 	a
ffordability
•		New	s
tore	loca
tions	and	
marke
ts
•	 Supply 	chain	w
orking 
 c
onditions
•	 Chemicals 	used	in	 
 produc
tion processes
•	 Green	tr
ansport	and	w
aste 
 mana
gementH&M	is	closely	c onnected 	
with communities ar
ound the 
world	in	which	our	s
tores	ar
e	
locat
ed	and	those	tha
t	hos
t	our	
supplier	f
actories.
•	 Through 	c
ommunity 	p
artners
•		Int
eractions 	with	local	
authorities
•		Through	NGO	in
teraction 	
(local	+	glob
al)
•		Int
eractions 	with	IGO
s	and	
go
vernments
•		Int
erviews	with	w
orkers	in	
supplier	fa
ctories	through	our	
Full	A
udit	P
rogramme 	(F
AP)
•	 Community 	in
vestments
•	 Employment 	oppor
tunities 
 and impa
cts on growth  
	 and	de
velopment
•	 Environmental 	imp
act
•	 Community 	suppor
t	 
	
(i.e.	disa
ster	r
elief	or	g
arment 
	 donations)•	 Long-term 	r
elationships 	
•	 O
rder/capacity 	plannin
g
•	 Capacity 	buildin
g	and	skills
 
 tr
ansfer
•	 Compliance 	with	our 
	
requirements
•	 Social	dialo
gue	and	w
orker 
	 involvement•	 Industry-wide 	social	and
 
	 environmental 	challen
ges, 
	 such	a
s	supply	chain	 
 work
ing conditions and 
	 environmental 	imp
acts
•	 Best	pr
actice	in	 
 pre-c
ompetitive matters
•	 Legal	and	r
egulatory 
	 requirements 	•	 R
egulatory 	and	le
gal 
	 compliance•	
	Local	labour	and	
envir
onmental 	s
tandards 
(including 	minimum 	w
ages	
and	social	dialo
gue)
•		Pr
oduct	sa
fety	and	qualit
y	
st
andards
•	 Climate 	chan
ge
•	 Uzbek	c
otton•	 Sales	de
velopment
•	 Profitability•	 Sustainability
	ma
tters
•	 ExpansionOur	supplier s	ar e	our	v alued	
business 	p
artners.	S
table	and	
long	t
erm	r
elations	ar
e	k
ey	t
o	
mutual	gr
owth.	S
trengthening 	
their owner
ship over their 
sustainability 	issues	and	
inv
olving	their	emplo
yees	is	
import
ant	in	enablin
g	lon
g-term	
sust
ainable	de
velopment. 	
•	 Individual 	mee
tings 
 throughout a p
artnership
•	 Introduction 	mee
tings	with
 
	 new	supplier
s
•	 Full	A
udit	P
rogramme 	(F
AP)
•	 Training 	modules
•	
Interviews 	with	w
orkers	in
 
	 supplier 	f
actories	thr
ough 
	 Full	A
udit	P
rogrammeSome	challen ges	ar e	bes t	
addr
essed	c
ollectively. 	W
e	
work with indus
try peers and 
even companies operating in other
	sec
tors	t
o	define	indus
try	
st
andards and common 
responses 	to	shared	challeng
es.
•		Multi-st
akeholder 	
initiativ
es such as the Fair 
Labour	Associa
tion	(FL
A),	
Sust
ainable	App
arel	Co
alition	
and	Be
tter	Co
tton	Initia
tive
•	 Various 	r
egional	and	local
 
 initiativ
es such  
	 as	Sec
tor	R
oundtables 	
•	 D
ifferent	f
orms	o
f	 
	
pre-competitive 	c
ollaborationH&M	and	our	supplier s	
are	subjec
t	t
o	rules	se
t	b
y	
policy-mak
ers.	Main
taining	
dialog
ue	with	them	helps	us	
to s
tay informed about, and 
sometimes 	t
o	help	shape,	our	
leg
al	and	r
egulatory 	c
ontext.
•	 Individual 	mee
tings
•	 Industry-wide 	mee
tings
•	 Responses 	t
o	o
fficial 
	 consultations•	 Dialogue
	thr
ough 
 in
termediariesNGOs	ar e	e xpert	a dvisers	
on st
andards and practices 
throughout 	our	v
alue	chain.	
We	r
ely	on	their	e
xpertise	and	
independence t
o ensure that 
we meet the most up-to-date standards and to make us aware of any concerns.
•	
	Re
gular	mee
tings	or	a
d	hoc	
dialog
ue	on	glob
al	and	local	
lev
el
•	 Specific 	pr
ogrammes 	 
	
with	glob
al	local	NGO
s 
 c
ountries
•	 Direct	p
artnerships
•	 Partnerships 	thr
ough 
 membership or
ganisations, 
	 like	the	Be
tter	Co
tton 
	 Initiative•	 Community
	in
vestments
•	 Labour 	righ
ts	and	supp
ly 
 chain work
ing conditions
•	 Social	and	ec
onomic  
	 development 	c
ontribution
•	 Water	and	chemicals
 
 mana
gement
•	 Environmental 	imp
actsH&M	is	a	publicly	lis ted	
comp
any.	As	such,	w
e	ar
e	
ac
countable 	t
o	our	in
vestors.	
•	 Annual 	Gener
al	Mee
ting
•		Annual	and	quar
terly	
repor
ts	and	r
elated	pr
ess	
and	t
elephone 	c
onferences 	
•	 Sus
tainability 	r
eporting
•	 Monthly 	sales	fig
ures
•	 Individual 	mee
tingsWe	w ant	our	emplo yees	t o	 
be a
dvocates for H&M brands. 
Motivated 	and	sa
tisfied	
employ
ees	me
ans	be
tter	
cust
omer interactions and a 
better and more productive workplace.
	
•	 W
e	ha
ve	an	open-door 	 
	
policy,	enc
ouraging 	c
onstant 
 f
eedback
•	 Store	or	union	r
epresentation 
 in many mark
ets
•	 European 	W
orks	Council
 
	 (EWC)•	
	Meetin
gs	f
acilitated 	thr
ough	
our	glob
al	fr
amework 	
agr
eement with Union 
Network 	In
ternational 	(UNI)
•	
Regular	individual
 
 perf
ormance reviews 
•	 Employee 	surv
eys	in	some
 
 mark
ets
•	 Job	securit
y	and	gr
owth
•	 Pay	and	w
orking	c
onditions
•	 Equal	oppor
tunities
•	 Training 	and	car
eer 
 pr
ogression
•	 Supply 	chain	w
orking 
 c
onditions
•	 Conscious 	A
ctions	in	s
toreHOw we e Nga ge
key I SSU eSINdUSt
ry pee
rSH&M C ONSCIOUS
eNgAgINg WI TH OU r ST AK eHO lDe rS
Contents
10  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
mANA geme NT AN D g O Ver NAN Ce
Like all H&M’s activities, our 
sustainability work is based on a drive for continuous 
improvement. This is demanded and monitored throughout our business. We work to make sustainability a natural and fully integrated part of everything we do.
This is led from the very top; our 
Head of Sustainability reports directly to our CEO and overall responsibility for sustainability is retained by our Executive Management Team. 
Our 20 people strong head office 
Sustainability team is responsible for developing global targets, reviewing progress and encouraging and advising all relevant departments on the development and implementation of material Conscious Actions. With this support, all departments at H&M are then individually responsible for developing and carrying out the Conscious Actions necessary to fulfil our seven commitments.
All functions report on their 
Conscious Actions on an annual basis to our CEO, CFO and Head of Sustainability, who jointly approve them. They review the progress made towards fulfilling our seven commitments twice a year. 
Sustainability matters are also 
regularly discussed by our Board of Directors and during 2011 our Head of Sustainability presented H&M’s sustainability performance during one of six board meetings.
Major sustainability issues 
influencing more than one department are discussed in a decision-making forum called the Green Room with the involvement of our CEO.
Additionally, about 90 people from 
our sustainability team operate from our 15 production offices around the world. They work directly with our suppliers to support them in complying with our Code of Conduct and develop strategies and methods to make our supply chain more sustainable.
H&M C ONSCIOUS
Ceoboar d of
dire Cto
rs
Head of
sales Head of
produ Cti
onHead of
sus
tainabilityHead of
buyinget C.
manager
produ Ct
su
stainabilitymanager
environmental
sustainabilitymanager
so Cia
l
sustainabilitymanager
proje Ct
 &
relations
Contents
11  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
HOW We rep OrT
We are committed to 
transparent reporting on the progress we 
make towards meeting our seven commitments. 
Our Sustainability Report, which 
is produced annually, covers our sustainability activities and programmes and our progress in making our operations and products more sustainable. The scope of the Report includes the global Group operations of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, including all its brands (H&M, COS, Weekday, Monki, Cheap Monday) as well as its fully or partially-owned subsidiaries globally. It reports on performance during the period from 1 December 2010 – 30 November 2011. Additional information is available online at hm.com/sustainability.
 hm.com/sustainabilityOur last Sustainability Report was published in April 2011. We are signatories to the UN Global Compact, and our annual sustainability report also acts as our Communication on Progress (COP). 
All data is collected by our 
Sustainability team from the relevant functions within our organisation and from external parties. It is reviewed by our controllers and relevant experts in our Sustainability team.
Unless specified, all data concerning 
suppliers and supplier factories includes all suppliers and factories that were approved for production during the reporting period. Each supplier may own or subcontract to various factories. Factories included in our scope include manufacturing or processing (i.e. washing or dyeing) factories that are owned or subcontracted by our suppliers. The provided number of worker interviews is an estimate based on all audits conducted, including those performed on factories that did not get approved. 
Please note that currency 
conversions from SEK to other currencies are approximate figures based on the conversion rate valid on 30 November 2011. Exact figures are provided in SEK only.
This report is designed to make 
on screen reading as convenient as possible.
impr OviNg Our  
rEpOrTiNg p
rOC
Ed
ur ES
We are committed to open and honest disclosure and our reporting is part of that process. We believe that our involvement in multi-stakeholder initiatives, as well as our own efforts to elicit feedback from our stakeholders, adds value and credibility to our reporting and we have taken into account comments received through this dialogue in selecting our material issues and choosing which Conscious Actions to take.
We also recognise that many of our 
stakeholders expect our reporting to be independently assured. During 2011 we evaluated different options for assuring our report and we will continue this process during 2012. As part of this we conducted a gap-analysis of our 2010 report together with Ernst & Young. The feedback has been considered in producing H&M CONSCIOUS
Contents
12  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
HOW W e r epOrT
this report and in the further 
development of our data systems.  In 2011, we invested in a new central data collection and reporting IT-system, and we plan to continue implementing this during 2012. 
glOb al r E pOrTiNg 
iNiTi
aTi
vE (gr
i)
We use the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We have included the indicators from the pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement but have not included them in our self-assessment rating as they are not yet finalised. H&M’s disclosure level against the GRI G3 framework is B (self-declared).  
 hm.com/GRIindex
 hm.com/howwereportH&M CONSCIOUS
Contents
13  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
NO.  1 i N  
Org
aNiC 
CO
TTON
according to the latest data 
r
eported by the organisation 
tex
tile exc
hange, h&m i
s the 
biggest user of certified 
organic cotton in the world. 
we st
arted using organic 
cotton in 2004 and since 2007 we have offered a range of 100% organic cotton garments. 
in 20
11, we 
further increased our use of organic cotton by more than 20% and it now represents 7.6% of our entire cotton use. 
thi
s increase, 
combined with the expected future growth in the use of 
bet
ter 
Cotton, means that we are on target to meet our goal of using more sustainable cotton only by 2020.
 Find our more here
 Find out more onlineHIgHlIgHTS f rOm 2 011H&M CONSCIOUS  
firST b ETTE r 
COT
TON  h
iTS 
h&m S
TOrES
Cotton is the raw material we use the most. H&M’s aim is for 
all cotton in our ranges to come 
from more sustainable sources 
by 2020. 
we pl
an to further 
increase our use of certified organic cotton and recycled cotton, but using more 
bet
ter 
Cotton is particularly key to 
meeting this target. h&m i
s 
an active member of the bet
ter 
Cotton ini
tiative. in 20
11, we 
launched our first denims made from 
bet
ter Cotton in h&m s
tores 
around the world. thi
s cotton 
is grown in a way that reduces stress on the local environment and improves the livelihoods and welfare of farming communities. 
fir
st harvesting projects 
conducted by w
wf sh
owed 
reductions in pesticide use of 32–81% and water savings of 32–49%. 
at th
e same time, net 
profits of participating farmers increased by 15–20%.
 Find out more here
 Find out more online
“H& m continues to demonstrate leadership and innovation  through their expansion of  organic cotton utilisation.”
larhea pepper,  
man
aging dir
ector, Textile Exchange “before, we used  an average of 120 litres  of pesticides a year,  costing about   eUr 8
25. Since  starting the be
tter Cotton programme we have significantly reduced our pesticide use, which increases our profits and is better for our health and  our environment.” 
drissa Coulibaly, Cotton far mer, mal i
“before, we used  an average of 120 litres  of pesticides a year,  costing about   eUr 825. Since  starting the better Cotton programme we have significantly reduced our pesticide use, which increases our profits and is better for our health and  our environment.” 
drissa Coulibaly, Cotton f armer, m aliJeans , better Cotton
20%
fU rt Her 
INC re
aSe Of 
Org
aNI
C 
 
CO t
tO
N U
Se 
C
ontents
14  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
iNT rOdu CiNg 
Org
aNiC hEm
p
h&m i s always looking for new 
ways of bringing our customers more sustainable fashion. 
org
anic hemp is the latest 
addition to H&M’s constantly growing range of conscious materials. 
org
anically grown, it 
uses less water than cotton or linen, doesn’t need pesticides or fertilisers and can thrive in all sorts of soils and climates. 
wha
t 
used to be used in ropes, nets and sacking, can now be used in the latest fashion. 
in au
tumn 
2011, H&M’s Conscious Collection featured our first organic hemp garments, alongside clothes made from a range of other sustainable materials.
 Find out more here
 Find out more online“Hemp can be very like   both linen and cotton in fabric form, but it has many advantages from an environmental perspective. It doesn’t need to be sprayed with pesticides, it doesn’t  need as much water  and it grows quickly and almost anywhere.”
Cia Sohlman, responsible for sustainable 
materials strategy and development,  
h&m’s buy
ing Office, StockholmiN
TENS ifi Ed 
EffOrTS fOr
 
a b ETT
Er 
baNgl
ad E
Sh
bangladesh is an important 
p
urchasing market for h&m 
bu
t also one of the world’s 
poorest nations. Clothing manufacturing employs several million people and accounts for a large proportion of the country’s exports. As a long-term buyer, 
h&m w
ants to contribute 
to lasting improvements for people working in the clothing industry. 
tha
t is why, in 2011, 
we developed an ambitious plan to support long term social development in 
ban
gladesh. the plan includes projects to 
s
upport improved social dialogue 
and better fire safety in garment factories, training and access to health care for garment workers. 
as pa
rt of the plan we also work 
to strengthen the position of women in the community by providing grants for female students in higher education and by setting up a helpline for women exposed to violence and discrimination. 
 Find out more here
 Find out more onlineH&M C ONSCIOUS
440,000
wOrk er S I N  
ba Ng
lade SH t
r a INed   
ON tHeIr rIgHtS  
S
INC e 2
0083m
 wOrk er S I N  
baNg
lade SH tO  
be t
r a INed I
N  
fIre
 Safe
ty  
UN tIl 20
13HIgHlIgHTS f rOm 2 011
skirt, o r Gani C h emP
Contents
15  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
TOwa r d S 
ClOSiNg ThE 
lOO p 
extracting natural resources for 
the
 manufacture of garments and 
letting them end up in landfill 
after use does not make business sense. 
we al
l have to think much 
harder about becoming more resource-efficient. Turning worn clothes into something usable again could be one way to achieve this. While there’s still a long way to go to close the resource loop on a large scale, we teamed up with iCollect in 2011 to initiate a pilot project in 17 
h&m s
tores in swi
tzerland 
to collect used garments from customers to be recycled. we 
p
lan to extend this project to all 
our stores in swi
tzerland and 
evaluate opportunities to extend this to other countries.
 Find out more here
 Find out more onlineaddr ESS iNg  
fa
ir wagES
    
 
wag
es in our supply chain are 
a key focus in our sustainability work. 
wag
e structures in global 
supply chains are often complex. 
tha
t is why in 2011, h&m j
oined 
the fai
r wag
e net
work. the 
i
nitiative works to bring together 
fashion brands, garment producers, 
nGos,
 worker 
representatives and researchers to promote fair wages around the world. 
in or
der to gain a 
better understanding of wage structures in our supply chain, in 2012 the 
fai
r lab
or ass
ociation 
(fla )
 will independently assess 
wage structures at around 200 of H&M suppliers’ factories in 
ban
gladesh, Cambodia, 
China and ind
ia, which account 
for more than half of total production for the 
h&m Gr
oup. 
The concept of a ‘Fair Wage’ takes into account living costs, profitability and whether or not wages are set through negotiations. we ho pe that this 
knowledge and the network will help us in further promoting fair wages in our supply chain and our industry. 
 Find out more here
 Find out more onlinewe U S ed  
r
eCyCle
d p
Oly
eSt
er 
eq UIv a
leNt t O9.2m
pet bOttle S2,024
 aUdItS C ON dUC te d O N 
aCtIve
 S
Uppl Ier
 
faCtOrIeSH&M C ONSCIOUS
“The fair Wage assessment  is an essential step to identify  wage practices among suppliers,  and will provide H& m w
ith remedial elements to address the issues. par
ticipation in the fai
r Wage Network will also allow H& m t
o seek  common solutions with other brands  and CS r ac
tors.” 
daniel vaughan- whi tehead,  
Co- init
iator fai
r wag
e NetworkHIgHlIgHTS f rOm 2 011
toP , reCyCle d Cut re mnants
Contents
16  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
iNT rOdu CiNg 
Our  miNi-m
ba
a successful company needs 
g
ood leaders. in a co
mpany 
in which most employees 
work in around 2,500 stores worldwide, our store managers play a very important role. 
the
y are the key to ensuring 
that our company’s values are represented in-store and that our colleagues around the world are properly supported. 
in t
he 
summer of 2011, the first 19 H&M 
uk ma
nagers graduated from 
our pilot min
i-mb
a pr
ogramme. 
From increasing profitability to envisaging the 
h&m s
tore of 
2020, this initiative aims to give our best managers the tools both to improve performance today and to understand the long-term challenges and opportunities 
h&m fac
es.“by committing to ‘detox’ its supply chain, H& m is not only setting the trend for this season and the  future, it is also sending a clear message to other brands that using toxic chemicals to make our clothing is no longer in vogue. H& m’s
 landmark commitment has the potential to be a catalyst for wider change across the fashion industry. H& m m
ust now use its size and influence to lead the entire fashion industry towards a toxic-free future, by working with other committed brands to bring about cross- industry and systemic change.”
marietta harjono, Toxic Campaigner  
a
t gre
enpeace int
ernationalTOward S zErO 
diSCha
rgE
during 2011, h&m e ngaged 
with Greenpeace regarding our shared ambition to eliminate the use of hazardous chemicals and achieve zero discharge of such substances in global textile production. 
si
nce 1995 h&m 
ha
s been working to reduce the 
use and impact of hazardous chemicals using an approach based on the Precautionary Principle. 
as a le
ading actor 
with a well reputed approach to chemicals management, 
h&m h
as 
the size and ability to encourage change within the industry. 
in 
20
11, h&m, to
gether with adidas 
Group, C& a, li nin
g, n
ike, inc
. 
and Puma, developed a joint roadmap and an ambitious action plan to set a new standard for environmental performance and lead our industry towards achieving zero discharges of those chemicals by 2020.
 Find out more here
 Find out more onlineH&M C ONSCIOUS
72%
Of O U r  
MaNag
er S  
ar
e w OM eN50/50
ge Nder   
SplIt ON  
OU r bOa
rdHIgHlIgHTS f rOm 2 011
Contents
17  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
PROVIDE FASHION
FOR CONSCIOUS 
CUSTOMERS1
Contents
18  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Johan ward
JOha N war d, 
hE ad Of 
SuSTaiNabi
liTy ,
 
h&m buy
iNg 
Offi CE, 
STO
Ck h Ol
m
“for me, our commitment to provide 
f
ashion for conscious customers 
means first of all to listen to our 
customers and offer them the products and collections they want. But it’s also about informing and educating our customers about what we do to make fashion more sustainable in a transparent and understandable way. 
and i
t means 
that we have to keep inspiring our customers with the designs we offer, the materials we use, the innovations we introduce and the constant improvements we work to achieve in everything we do.”Our business idea is to offer fashion and 
quality at the best price. To us, ‘quality’ includes that our products should be 
produced, transported and sold with care for people and the environment.
Our customers are at the core of everything we do 
and our success depends on our ability to deliver what they want.
We always want to inspire and surprise our 
customers and strengthen our customer offering. As they become increasingly conscious of environmental and social issues, adding sustainability value to our products is one way to achieve this. By making more sustainable choices available to all our customers around the world,  we can together contribute to a more sustainable fashion future.Our regular coordinated Conscious Collections are at the forefront of both fashion and sustainability. They show very clearly that choosing greener fashion does not mean compromising on design or price. Our permanent broad range of various Conscious Products makes a better choice easier  for our customers and applies these innovations  on a bigger scale. 
But this is only the beginning of our journey. We 
keep working every day to make all our products more sustainable, piece-by-piece and throughout our entire range. 
Learn here about some of the Conscious Actions 
we are taking to fulfil this commitment. COMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
2.4m 
paIrS Of  S HO eS  
Mad
e w ItH  
w
ater-ba Sed  
a
dHeS
Ive SNo.  1
USer Of  Org aNIC   
CO ttON  I
N tHe  
wOr
ld
29%
INC rea Se I N  
Sal
eS Of e
U-flOwe
r 
labelled  
gar MeNtSCommitment
S  
PROVIDE FASHION 
FOR CONSCIOUS 
CUSTOMERS1
Contents
19  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
Timescale : 2020   
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 7.
62% of the Cot
ton we use Come
s from more sustainable sour Ce
s
Cotton is the material we use most. It is a 
natural, renewable material with many advantages, but it also carries a number of 
concerns. For example, conventionally grown cotton can have heavy impacts on the environment. By 2020 at the latest we aim for all our cotton to come from sustainable sources that require less water, pesticides and fertilisers and also helps farmers and communities to improve their standard of living. This includes organic cotton, Better Cotton and recycled cotton. By 2011, 7.62% of the cotton we used came from these sources. This share is almost entirely achieved by our increased use of organic cotton but over the coming years, Better Cotton in particular will play a more prominent role. As a result, we are on track to reach our ambitious target for all our cotton to be from more sustainable sources by 2020. 
 hm.com/cotton
 bettercotton.orguSE  ON ly m OrE SuSTaiNab lE C OTTON
 1.0 % OF MORE SUSTAINABLE COTTON 
ON H&M’S COTTON USE
7.62%
dress, orGan iC Cot ton
Contents
20  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS
Timescale: onGoi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Wor
ld’s no. 1 user o F CerTI
FIed o
rgAnIC CoTTon
According to Textile Exchange’s latest Global  
Market Report on Sustainable Textiles 2010  
(launched in summer 2011), H&M is the 
world’s biggest user of certified organic cotton. 
We will continue to support increases in global production of organic cotton, but we do expect growth rates to normalise (our average growth from 2007–2010 amounted to 130%). In 2011, we nevertheless further increased our use of organic cotton by more than 20%. It now represents 7.6% of all the cotton we use.
 hm.com/cotton 
 textileexchange.orgTimescale:  2 011 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: firs
t Garme
nts in h&m st
ores
Our first denim products made with Better Cotton reached H&M stores during 2011. We expect the amount we use to increase 
considerably in the coming years. For 2012, our target is for Better Cotton to represent about 5% of our total cotton use. It is one of the key initiatives towards achieving our goal of using more sustainable cotton only by 2020. As a member of the council of the Better Cotton Initiative we are actively engaged in working towards its success. 
 hm.com/cotton 
 bettercotton.orgCONT iNuE T O iNC rEaSE uSagE Of Org aNiC C OTTONlau NC h fi
rST g
arm EN
TS m
ad E  
Of b ETTE r C OT TON  iN h&m S TOrESCOMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
AVERAGE GROWTH IN ORGANIC COTTON USE
H&M VS WORLD MARKET 2008–2010
130%
39%
H&M World
Market 1.1 
 1.2 H&M’S RANK AS USER OF ORGANIC COTTON*
51
4
* SOURCE: textile exchange2008 2009 2010
 
Contents
21  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS
Supp OrT iNN OvaTiO N  
iN SuSTaiNab
lE ma TEri
alSCOMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
Timescale:  on Goi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: orGan
iC he
mP in
trodu Ce
d 
H&M is an important user of many 
innovative, more sustainable fabrics like Tencel, recycled materials and organic 
linen. By driving demand, we want to strengthen the market for these materials and encourage further innovation. In 2011, we extended our range of materials and introduced our first garments made with organic hemp. H&M also supports Mistra and their ‘Fashion Future’ project. The project aims to promote systemic change in the fashion industry. It produces detailed research on textile recycling and among other things, on how to speed up the market introduction of new innovative sustainable materials.
 hm.com/consciousmaterials
 mistra.org Timescale : on Goi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Pil
ot test Condu Cte
d on 4 Produ Cts
For conscious customers, trying to understand whether or not a product has been produced in a sustainable way can be difficult. H&M 
is a founding member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition which aims to develop an index that gives apparel and footwear products a clear score against key sustainability indicators. This will make it easier for customers to compare products and make an informed choice. In 2011, we initiated a joint pilot of the first version of the index and tested the process internally on four products. The evaluation of this test is planned for the beginning of 2012.
 hm.com/memberships
 hm.com/apparelcoalition
 apparelcoalition.org dEvElOp SuSTaiNab ili Ty iNdEx la bElS fOr Our p rOdu CT S
Contents
22  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS
Timescale:  2012  
sTaTus snap
sho T: enGaGed i
n ProJeCt wi
th fren Ch GoVernm
ent 
During 2011, we engaged with the French 
government in an initiative called the Grenelle Project. The project involves 
identifying measurements for environmental impacts and finding the best ways to make these impacts transparent for customers. As part of the project, H&M looked at one of our t-shirts and evaluated the total water use, CO
2e emissions and eutrophication 
impacts throughout its life cycle, from growing the cotton to the disposal or recycling of the garment. Collecting the necessary quality data for this ambitious undertaking is a challenge. However,  in 2012 we plan for these t-shirts to come with  hang tags that inform our French customers about  the garment’s environmental impacts. We hope  that this project will help in the development of standards for transparent product impact disclosure within the EU, as well as helping us to improve our own performance.Timescale:  annually  
sTaTus snap
sho T: 29%
 inCrea
se a Chi
eVed
Since 2005, we have sold baby wear bearing the EU’s Flower eco-label. The label certifies that harmful substances have been limited 
and water pollution reduced across the whole production cycle of these garments. As with all other H&M garments, baby wear must also comply with H&M’s strict 
Chemical Restrictions . In 2011, we sold 
2,632,489 pieces, an increase of 29% on the previous year. This performance indicates strong demand from our customers for these products. Our target is to increase sales by 15% annually. We also plan to make these garments out of 100% organic cotton by 2012.
 eco-label.comhE lp d EvElOp Eur OpEaN STaNdar dS fOr 
EN vir ON mENT al p
rOdu CT lab ElliNg iNC rEaSE SalES Of gar
mENT
S la
bEllEd wi Th ThE Eu fl OwEr by a T lEaST 15%COMMI tMeNt 1 — prOvIde faSHI ON fOr CO NSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
1,400,0001,875,0002,037,6002,632,489
2008 2009 2010 2011PIECES SOLD BEARING 
THE EU FLOWER LABEL
% INCREASE PER YEAR
25
829
2009 2010 2011 1.3 
 1.4 
Contents
23  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS
Timescale:  2012  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: new
 Care
 and washin G inst
ruCti
ons in de Ve
loPmen
t
Ensuring that our customers are well informed 
about sustainable fashion extends to how they care for the garments they buy from 
H&M. The ‘user phase’ accounts for about 40% of the climate impact of a garment’s lifecycle. Reducing the washing temperature from 60 degrees to 40 degrees or less can save 50% in energy use. To inspire our customers to reduce this impact, in 2011, we started working on complementing our care and washing instructions with climate-smart alternatives. We have been in close discussions with Ginetex, the owner of the current global standard care labelling system, to support this goal. We plan to introduce the first garments labelled with climate-smart care instructions in our stores in 2012.
 hm.com/careTimescale:  on Goi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 3,
600 hours of trainin G fo
r buyers and desi Gners
To offer more sustainable products to our conscious customers, our buyers and designers who decide what products we offer, have to 
be well informed about the sustainability value of different items. We provide dedicated internal and external training courses for these colleagues. For example, during 2011 we provided 3,600 hours of training related to sustainability. Timescale:  on Goi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: ne
w trainin G me
thod introdu Ce
d 
We want our colleagues to feel proud of where they work. We also want to support everyone at H&M in delivering the best 
possible customer service. That is why with the launch of our first Conscious Collection in 2011 we rolled out a mandatory in-depth training programme for our sales advisors. This informed them about the sustainable materials used in the collection and how they relate to H&M’s sustainability work. A study conducted during summer 2011 showed that whilst, as a result, sales advisor knowledge on conscious materials was good, other aspects of our sustainability work were not always as well understood as we would wish. That is why for 2012 we want to scale up this programme and integrate a broader range of topics.
 hm.com/trainingiNT rOdu CE Cli ma TE-Sma rT  
w
aShiNg a Nd Car E iNS
TruCTiON
SprOvi dE bE ST pOS Sibl E SuSTaiNabi liTy 
Tra
iNiNg f Or bu
yErS aNd d ESigNE rSiN
CrEaSE ThE kNO wl Edg E a
mON g 
Our SalES a dvi SOrS a bOuT h&m’S 
SuSTaiNab
ili Ty w OrkCOMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
eStI M ated 3,600
HOU rS Of  
SU
StaINab IlIty 
 
tr a IN
INg t O O
Ur  
bUye
rS aNd  
de SIgNer S
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
Timescale:  2011  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 2,
433,772 PieCe
s Produ Ce
d
Solvent-based adhesives are often used in the 
production of shoes and bags, but they can be harmful to workers in factories if not 
handled with sufficient protection. In 2009 we started working with chemical manufacturers, producers of adhesives and accessory, bag and shoe suppliers to identify possible water-based alternatives. Trials showed that the content of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) could be reduced by 65%. In 2011, 100% of our bags were produced using these water-based adhesives. 
In 2010, 450,000 pairs were produced this way as 
well. By the end of 2011, we had increased this by more than 400% to more than 2.4 million pairs.  Our goal for 2012 is now to produce 7 million pairs. 
 hm.com/chemicals2,4 million Pai rs of shoes made 
with water-based adhesi Ve
sprOdu CE 2 milli ON  p air S Of ShOE S w iTh wa TEr- baSEd ad hESivES iNS TEad Of S OlvEN T-b aSEd O NES
450,0002,400,0007,000,000
2010 2011 2012 targetPAIRS OF SHOES MADE WITH 
WATER-BASED ADHESIVES
24  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 1.5 
Contents
25  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMI tMeNt 1  — p rOvIde f aSH ION fOr C ONSCIOUS CUS tOM erS 
Timescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 60
,000 Pai
rs of shoes Produ Ce
d
Leather products can require quite intense 
chemical treatment using substances that can harm the environment. While we 
restrict hazardous chemicals through our Chemical Restriction List, we do not source any leather directly and have therefore less direct influence over this stage of our value chain. So, in 2009, we joined the Leather Working Group (LWG) in order to promote sustainable business practices in this sector. Tanneries must comply with high environmental standards before being rated by the Group. 
We planned to produce 500,000 pairs of shoes made 
with leather from LWG certified tanneries. However, in order to ensure process quality and guarantee the availability of the certified leather, we decided to start with a smaller number and produced slightly more than 60,000 pair of shoes, as well as around 13,000 bags. We will revert to the target to produce 500,000 pairs of shoes in 2012.
 hm.com/memberships
 leatherworkinggroup.com pur Cha SE 500,000  pair S Of ShOE S m ad E w iTh l EaThEr fr Om C ErTif iEd TaNN EriES
500,000
60,000
2011 2012 targetPAIRS OF SHOES MADE WITH 
LEATHER FROM CERTIFIED TANNERIES
60,000 Pairs of shoes made 
w
ith Ce
rtified leather 1.6 
Contents
26  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
CHOOSE AND 
REW ARD  
R ESPONSIBLE 
PA RTNE R S2
Contents
27  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMI tMeNt 2  — C HO OSe a Nd re ward re SpON SIbl e part NerS 
Gusta V loVen
guSTav l O vEN , 
prOd
uCTiO
N 
Offi CE 
CON
TrOllEr,
 
Sha Ngha
i
“for me, this commitment is about 
h
elping our suppliers to see a clear 
connection between social and 
environmental responsibility and their bottom line. 
we tr
y to link 
partnership growth plans to specific social and environmental goals and encourage the sharing of best practice between top performing suppliers and those who are trying to take important steps forward. 
to r
eward responsible partners, 
a major challenge is how to measure social and environmental performance. 
our iCo
C index is of great help in this 
regard, but a bit of common sense is also important. I think H&M’s culture of empowering employees to make the right decisions is an important part of the mix.”H&M does not own any of the factories 
that manufacture our products. Instead, production takes place at around 1,650 
factories that are owned or subcontracted by almost 750 suppliers. Managing our value chain effectively to ensure that quality and ethical standards are maintained is a major challenge. Large parts of our global Sustainability and Production Office teams are dedicated to this task.
Garment production is often located in countries 
where human rights violations are a risk and environmental awareness is less developed. Respect for people and the environment is an essential part  of H&M’s values. We use our influence to promote better working conditions and environmental consciousness throughout our value chain. We  focus on strengthening our suppliers’ ability to  take ownership for their sustainability issues and  on working towards greater involvement of the workers themselves. This contributes to stability  in the producing countries and tends to translate to more efficient operations and higher quality products.
Our commitment is to choose and reward 
responsible partners who share our values and are willing to work with us to improve their social and environmental practices. Increasingly, to leverage similar sustainability and commercial benefits, we are also working to improve conditions in other parts of our value chain.
We have a set of policies in place that guide us 
in our daily work. Additionally, we developed Conscious Actions through which we are working to fulfil this commitment. See some of them in the following section and find out how far we have come.
442,031
wOrk er S I N  
baNg
lade SH t
r a INed
  
ON  tHeIr r IgHtS  
SI
NC e 20
08
eStI M ated9,000
wOrk INg  
da
yS I
Nve St
ed I
N  
SU
StaINab IlIty 
 
aCtIvItIeS ta
rget I
Ng  
OU r S
Uppl Ier
  
faCtOrIeS
5.6
SUS taINab IlIty 
aCtIvItIeS pe
r 
key fa CtOryCommitment
S  
CHOOSE AND 
REW ARD  
RESPONSIBLE 
PA RTNE R S2
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 28  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: Co
de ali Gned
 and first Con
tra Cts ad
oPt
ed, first audits Cond
uCte
d 
The values and standards applied to the suppliers 
who produce our commercial goods are equally relevant to H&M’s other partners. 
During 2010, we updated our Code of Conduct so that it could also be applied to companies providing us with other services – for example shop interiors, marketing materials, IT support or logistics. In 2011, the first of the relevant departments, such as our logistics team, included the Code into contracts with their partners and we conducted the first audits to verify compliance. We will continue integration with more business partners during 2012.
 hm.com/codeofconductExTEN d ThE S CO pE Of Our  
COdE Of C ON du CT T
O iNC lu
dE  
OT hEr bu SiNE
SS p
ar TN
ErS
H&M’s minimum requirements and has the potential for further performance improvements in order to become a long term partner for H&M. In 2011, our auditors did not approve 24% of the potential new factories. All factories that are approved in this initial assessment are covered by our Full Audit Programme, through which H&M continuously monitors the progress made by each factory. New partners usually show a less strong sustainability performance than our long term partners – a clear indication of the improvements that our partnership approach promotes (see graph 2.7, p33).
 hm.com/monitoring
 hm.com/beyondmonitoring
 hm.com/codeofconductTimescale:  onGoi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: 99
% of all fa Ctori
es audited before re Ce
iVinG orde
rs
H&M is a growing company. As we grow, we constantly need to seek new production capacity. As part of our sourcing strategy, 
we only allow production for H&M to take place with suppliers and in factories that sign our Code of Conduct and commit to our values. This is the case whether they are owned directly by our suppliers or subcontracted to them. And it remains the case regardless of the price they offer. New partners must comply with the minimum requirements from our Code from the beginning and show the necessary willingness to work towards full compliance. When assessing a potential new partner, we start by providing them with detailed training about the expectations we have of a responsible partner. If, based on this understanding, they continue to show a strong willingness to work with H&M, our commercial sourcing teams often start with a compliance screening process, supported by dedicated tools. If this first assessment is positive, our auditors conduct an in-depth head audit. They have the mandate to take the final decision about whether a supplier or individual factory fulfils E
NSur E Tha T wE ChOOS
E rESpON
Sib
lE p
ar TN
ErS w
iTh g OO d p OT
ENT ia
l  
fOr im
prOvEmEN
T w
hEN  S
Our CiNg f Or N
Ew pr Odu CTiON  Cap
aCiTy
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 29  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: in
trodu Ce
d Glob
ally
We are constantly looking for ways to 
improve our audit systems. As part of our Full Audit Programme (FAP), in 
2011, we introduced a new index for measuring performance and grading our suppliers, the Index Code of Conduct (ICoC). This gives every supplier a score (max. 100%) based on their level of compliance with our requirements (see graph 2.8, p33) and the quality of their management systems (see graph 2.9, p34). This allows more accurate benchmarking of our supplier factories, helps them to identify priorities for further improvements and supports us in rewarding better performing partners. The index will serve as our main tool to follow up and report on our supply chain’s sustainability performance. By the end of 2011, the average score among our supplier factories was 76.2%. Early trend data indicates progress is being made (see graphs 2.0 and 2.1). Key and selected factories show a better performance throughout following their close partnership with H&M  (see graph 2.2, p30).
 hm.com/monitoringiNT rOdu CE N Ew Sup pli Er SuSTaiNab ili Ty p ErfOrm aNC E iNdEx – iCOC
ICoC GRADE BY REGION
1 SEPTEMBER 2011 – 30 NOVEMBER 2011
77.26
73.2778.52
76.2
South
AsiaFar EastEMEA Total
ICoC GRADE DEVELOPMENT 
1 SEPTEMBER 2011 – 30 NOVEMBER 2011
76.2% 
75.1% 75.2% 75.6% 75.5% 75.7% 75.8% 76.0% 76.1% 
75.2% 2011-09-30
2011-10-07
2011-10-11
2011-10-21
2011-10-28
2011-11-04
2011-11-11
2011-11-18
2011-11-26
2011-11-30 2.0 
 2.1 
time
span from sept
ember– nov
ember has been chosen 
to provide most comparable and quality secured data.
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 30  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
for factories. Factories graded ‘selected’ or ‘key’ are 
higher performing ones in relation to a variety of key factors. As a result, these factories show an above average performance on sustainability (see graph 2.2). Currently, 392 out of 1,652 factories are holding this grade and represent 52% of all production for H&M (see graph 2.4).
 hm.com/supplierrelationsTimescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: ne
w suPPlie
r re
lationshi P man
aGem
ent str
ate Gy l
aun Ch
ed
To strengthen our supplier capacity management processes, we launched a new supply chain strategy in Summer 2011. The 
Supplier Relationship Management strategy rests on creating mutual benefits and long term strategic business relationships with our best suppliers. Well-managed business relationships can turn into successful strategic alliances, based on shared risks and shared rewards supporting sustainable business performance. H&M considers open communication and trust to be critical to the success of the relationship. As part of this approach, suppliers are grouped into different categories. Platinum and Gold suppliers, for example, are long-term strategic partners that share values and long term goals. Such long-term partnerships provide mutual benefits for the supplier, for example by securing stable business through long term capacity planning up to 5 years ahead. By the end of 2011, 150 of our 747 suppliers were graded platinum or gold. These 150 suppliers represent 58% of all production for H&M (see graph 2.3). As one supplier may often own or use a number of factories, we also introduced a new grading system S
TrENgThEN  lON g-TErm
 Sup
pli Er r ElaTiON
S
36%
Silver12%
Platinum5%
New1%
On/Off
46%
GoldORDER PLACEMENT PER
SUPPLIER CATEGORY
79.3
76.2ICoC SCORE FACTORIES GRADED ‘SELECTED’ OR ‘KEY’ VS FACTORY AVERAGE
Key & Selected
All 2.2  2.3 
ORDER PLACEMENT PERFACTORY CATEGORY
37%
Important11%
Selected8%
New3%
Proﬁle
41%
Key 2.4 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 31  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  2012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: new
 index ( iCoC)
 for more systemati C in
teGra
tion de Vel
oPed
As a step to further integrate sustainability 
criteria into our sourcing practices we are introducing our supplier sustainability index 
(ICoC) into systems and processes relating to capacity planning and order placement. During 2011, we developed a ‘Quantity-Weighted’ version of this index. This quantitative instrument can be used for analysis, goal setting and follow-up to make sure that we are rewarding the right suppliers with our business. While this integration process will continue during 2012, the first analysis of our data shows that during 2011, 54% of our products were made in factories with an ICoC-score of 81% or higher. While we will continue evaluating this data during 2012, this indicates that orders are more likely to be placed with factories with better sustainability performance.
 hm.com/supplierrelations
 hm.com/monitoringfur ThEr iNT Egr aTE SuSTaiNab ili Ty Cr iTEri a iNT O Our Ord Er SyST EmS
% OF PIECES ORDERED PER ICoC RANGE
1%2%13%30%38%
16%
0–50 51–60 61–70 71–80 81–90 91–100
 2.5 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 32  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
hE lp TO  impr OvE CO mpl iaNCE  wi Th Our C OdE Of C ON du CT Thr Ough r Egul ar m ON iTOriNg
their sustainability issues, for example by building 
their management capacities, helping to improve management systems or conducting joint audits, as well as by promoting social dialogue and increasing workers’ awareness of their rights.
 Find more details in our supply chain data overview (p. 44-47)
 hm.com/monitoring
 fairlabor.orgTimescale : on Goin G
sTaTus snapsh
oT: 2,02
4 audits Condu Cted
In order to follow up on how our business partners comply with the requirements of our Code of Conduct and to support their progress, 
we monitor them regularly through our Full Audit Programme (FAP) throughout our partnership. We work to constantly improve our audit methods in order to ensure that we are getting an accurate picture of supplier performance. This also helps H&M and our suppliers to understand and address the root causes of any non-compliance. Additional independent monitoring helps verify our audit systems. In 2011, we conducted a total of 2,024 audits (98 of these using our LAP-method). 964 of these were head audits and 1,060 follow-up audits. As a result of our efforts to increase the share of unannounced head audits, their ratio went up to 78% (2010: 68%) (see graph 2.6). While the audit intensity may differ substantially from country to country based on the level of risk identified, on average every factory was audited 1.2 times during 2011. But monitoring alone is not enough. That’s why we go beyond monitoring and focus on helping our suppliers to strengthen their ownership over 
NUMBER OF AUDITS 
CARRIED OUT
7191,2191,060
964
2010 2011
Follow-up audits
Head audits 2.6 	2.7	eStIM ated  10,000
wOrk er  
INter
vIew S  
CON dUC ted 
 
2,024
faCtOry  
aUdItS  
% OF HEAD AUDITS THAT WERE UNANNOUNCED 
68% 78% 
66% 
2009 2010 2011
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 33  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
We overturned our rule that non-compliance on 
related requirements would result in immediate supplier rejection. Non-compliance will instead now result in lower compliance scores. In turn, improvements can now be incentivised with higher scores. This can mean that compliance figures look worse, but we prefer to know the truth and help bring about real improvements. While the challenge of addressing freedom of association in China remains, we are already gaining a better picture of trade union representation among our supplier factories. To support these shifts in our auditing practices, we have provided additional dedicated training to all our auditors. This year, two training workshops were conducted by the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and the consultancy Just Solutions.
 hm.com/monitoring
 fairlabor.orgTimescale:  2011  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: me
thod u Pda
ted, trade union re Prese
ntation in fo Cus
In connection with the introduction of our ICoC grading system, we launched the third updated version of our FAP-audit questionnaire. 
Compliance levels for workers’ basic rights have historically been high, however we recognise that detecting non-compliance can be a major challenge. To be sure that our audits are accurate, we strengthened our methodology for complex yet extremely important issues like forced labour and freedom of association. As part of this, we have made a major shift in the way we assess compliance with the right to freedom of association. Instead of asking if a worker’s right to freedom of association is respected, we now measure if trade unions are actually in place. upd
aTE a
udi T mEThOdOlOgy T
O S
TrENgThEN  fOC uS O
N wOrk ErS’ ba SiC r
igh TS, iNC lu
diNg fr EEdOm Of a SS
OC iaTiON
COMPLIANCE LEVEL: FREEDOM 
OF ASSOCIATION/TRADE UNION REPRESENTATION
100% 100% 100% 
5% 75% 
3% 
EMEA Far East* South Asia
Audit question: Is freedom of 
association respected? (2010)
Audit question: Is there a trade union represented in the factory? (2011)
*China not included due to the fact that
freedom of association is generally notgranted by law.  	2.8	
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 34  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
compliance score. During 2011, we updated our 
management systems scorecard and provided two person days of related training to each of our auditors. During the year, we conducted a total of 1,941 management system analyses and focused particularly on systems related to grievance, communication and safety – areas that are fundamental to our suppliers’ ability to develop ownership over their sustainability issues. We regard a meaningful dialogue between management and workers, including functional grievance and communication systems, as key to preventing issues from arising or, if they do, to solving them in good faith.
 Find more data details in supply 
 ch
ain data overview (p. 44-47) 
 hm.com/beyondmonitoringTimescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 1,
941 mana Geme
nt systems analysed
In the long run, we want our suppliers to take charge of their own sustainability. We call this approach ‘supplier ownership’. One way to 
achieve this is to help our suppliers in developing better management systems. We systematically assess the effectiveness of these systems in our supplier factories in order to prevent non-compliance issues from arising. Through our ICoC grading system we score each factory on their management systems. The score feeds into its total grading, alongside its S
TrENgThEN  Sup
pli Er OwNE rShi
p OvEr SuSTaiNab
ili Ty by Sup
pOrTiNg b ETT
Er 
ma NagEmENT  SySTE mS
 2.9 1,941
SUppl Ier  
MaNag
eMeNt SySteM
S 
aNaly Sed
 fOr 
IMp
rOve MeNtS65% 
58% 56% 56% 55% 53% 53% 52% 50% 47% 45% 44% 42% 41% 
29% MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ANALYSES
178401
236278
13166133152
22 63 27 45146
747Recruitmentsystem to prevent
child labourGrievanceCommunication
SafetyDiscrimination
HealthRules and Regulations
Overall recruitmentForced labourSubcontracting
Abuse and harassmentWaste waterChemical  handlingWorkers’ trainingSandblastingManagement system score
Number of management systems analysed
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 35  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 1,3
39 CaPaCit
y buildin G aCtiVi
ties
Besides auditing the progress our suppliers 
make and helping them to improve their management systems, we focus on building 
their capacity, for example through training and workshops. The aim is to strengthen their ownership over their sustainability issues and help them to detect opportunities to improve their business. During 2011, we conducted 1,339 capacity building activities, investing an estimated 5,300 person hours. These activities are part of our strategy to go beyond monitoring. Together with audits, management systems analysis and screenings, this leads to a high intensity of sustainability activity per factory (2011: 3.3 activities per factory). Due to their higher importance to our sourcing, we put a stronger focus on ‘key’ factories, leading to an average of 5.6 activities (see graph 2.19, p45).
 hm.com/beyondmonitoringSTrENgThEN  Sup pli Er OwNE rShi p 
OvEr SuSTaiNab
ili Ty Thr Oug
h 
Ca pa CiTy b
u il di Ng
this programme was still being rolled out at the end of 2011, there were some very promising initial results. For example, participating factories reported an average productivity increase of 20%.
 hm.com/beyondmonitoringTimescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: pr
ogr AM
Me To BuIld s
uppl Ier
s’ e Hs CApAC
ITIes l AunCHed
In 2008, we created a role in each of our production offices dedicated to working with Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) 
issues. Often, however, suppliers do not have the necessary competence in house to manage EHS issues effectively. To address this, in 2011, we launched the Building of Supplier EHS organisation programme. This aims to build a corresponding role at our supplier factories that works and communicates with our production office EHS experts to help drive improved performance. Looking at how this impacts on compliance, we can see a clear positive trend (see graph 2.10). 
Building on this, in 2011 we initiated a capacity 
building project together with internationally renowned consultancy TUV Rheinland. Ten factories with wet processes participated in the programme, as these types of factories are often chemical intensive. The aim was to support them in maintaining a system for workplace organisation and cleanliness, while significantly improving health and safety and chemical management using the 5S method. Whilst Supp
OrT Sup
pli ErS iN b
uildi Ng b ETT
Er E
Nvi
rON mEN
Tal h EalTh & SafETy (E hS) 
m
aNagEmENT  SySTE mS
COMPLIANCE WITH 
ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
46% 53% 69% 
58% 
58% 70% 
EMEA Far East South Asia
Head audit 1
Head audit 3
the data shows the progress on compliance with 
en
vironmental requirements (including chemical 
handling) among all factories in our supplier base 
between their first and third head audit. 2.10 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Ewa rd r EspON sIblE p ar TN Ers 36  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 80
 mills Par
tiCiPat
inG (2
010: 43)
The Mill Development Programme, which 
started in 2008, targets fabric mills in China and Bangladesh; key fabric providers to our 
suppliers. It aims to improve compliance with both our chemical restrictions and the environmental and safety requirements of our Code of Conduct, which all participating mills are required to sign. This is in line with our Limited Audit Programme at this second tier of our value chain. In 2011, 80 mills were a part of the programme (69 in China and 11 in Bangladesh). Following our first audits we have seen a major improvement in practices in this sector, which has rarely been the subject of auditing by international brands. We have also had to reject nine mills due to severe incidents of non-compliance, mainly on minimum wages, missing fire alarms and the use of banned chemicals (see graph 2.12). We have made this programme a routine element of our work in China and Bangladesh and intend to extend this to India during 2012.
 hm.com/milldevelopmentCONT iNuE T O E Nga gE f abri C m ill S iN Our mil l d EvElOpm EN T prOgr amm E
Timescale:  2012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 20
 Joi
nt audits Condu Cte
d 
During 2010/2011, we introduced a Joint Audit Assessment Programme (JAP) in China in collaboration with 20 factories. Joint 
assessments are based on the same methodology as our Full Audit Programme, but H&M and factory staff conduct the audit together. This way, our suppliers learn to identify weaknesses in their operations better and we can mutually agree on targets for improvement and actions to achieve these. The Joint Audit Programme will initially be available only for our strategic partners with an advanced in-house sustainability organisation. As a next step, we plan to develop a Self Audit Programme (SAP) for this group of suppliers. The purpose is to complement our audits and to strengthen our suppliers’ in-house sustainability management capacity. Pilots are planned for Spring 2012.
 hm.com/beyondmonitoringSTrENgThEN Sup pli Er OwNE rShi p OvEr 
SuSTaiNab
ili Ty Thr Oug
h J
OiNT  a
udi TS
NUMBER OF LAP-AUDITS CONDUCTED
ON PARTICIPATING MILLS
16
2 229
915
2009 2010 2011
Passed
RejectedNUMBER OF MILLS PARTICIPATING IN THE MILL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
43 80
24 
2009 2010 2011 2.11 
 2.12 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 37  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
receive the training until 2013. This way, we hope 
to bring improvements in fire safety across the entire Bangladeshi garment industry.
 hm.com/beyondmonitoring
 thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-detailsTimescale:  2013
sTaTus
 snapsho T: fi
re safety awareness films Produ Ce
d and distributed
Fire safety is a major issue in Bangladeshi garment factories. Poor electrical installations and bad maintenance often create significant 
fire hazards. We have found that too few resources are available at the Fire Safety Civil Defense authority to ensure that fire safety licences are up-to-date. We have raised this concern with the Bangladeshi Government and engaged the Bangladeshi University of Engineering and Technology and a specialist consultant to assess the electrical installation in two factories. These assessments will be finalised in Spring 2012. We have produced two training films to increase fire safety awareness amongst employees at all levels in garment factories. We contacted various other brands in September 2011 and together with 18 of them, we launched this training module in collaboration with the most important employer associations in the sector (BGMEA and BKMEA), reaching out to all of the approximately 4,500 exporting garment factories in Bangladesh. Accordingly, approximately 3 million workers will mak E f
ur ThEr C
ONT ri
bu TiON
S T
O i
mpr OvEd fi
rE SafETy iN baNgl
ad ESh
3m
 wOrk er S  
tO b
e tr a INed
  
ON  fIre Saf
ety18
br a NdS jOI Ned  
fOrCeS fOr
 better  
fIre
 Safe
ty
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 38  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 
61 fa Cto
ries in China Par
t of dedi Cat
ed ProGra
mme
Another of our capacity-building projects has 
focused on accessories factories in China. Its aim is to improve compliance with our 
requirements in this sector, which is less frequently subject to audits from retail brands and often has a high level of chemical usage. The programme has identified the areas in which remedial work is necessary to enable factories in the sector to comply with H&M’s requirements, such as environment, health and safety and workers’ rights. Building on  the intensive training programme that has been running since 2008, we organise an annual ‘fair’, where carefully selected consultants offer their services in areas such as workers’ basic rights,  HR, contracts, grievance procedures, forced labour, EHS and discrimination.
Our audit results show that participating factories 
improved performance more than non-participating ones. This clearly indicates the impact that capacity-building can have and that is why we see it as a key element of our strategy, alongside audits and management system analysis.faCil
iTaTE pErfOrm
aNC
E i
mpr OvEmEN
TS aT aCC
ESSO riES Sup
pli ErS iN C
hiNa
PARTICIPATING ACCESSORIES FACTORIES
70%84%
78%66%93%
68%
55% 44%65%
56%
42%95%
Health & Safety
(OHS)EnvironmentalHealth & Safety(EHS)Workers’ rights
Participating factories 2008
Participating factories 2011
Non-participating 2011Non-participating 2008
iCoC score on related requirements 2008 vs 2011 and 
pa
rticipating vs comparable non-participating factories 
(both in China). 2.13 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 39  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: more th
an 440,000 workers edu Cat
ed
Often, workers in supplier factories are 
themselves unaware of their rights and how to claim them. In 2008, we teamed up with 
suppliers and local NGOs in Bangladesh to develop a series of five short films and training packages in order to increase this awareness. During 2011, we continued to distribute the films to all new supplier factories, and also shared the material with other brands. 128,958 workers and middle managers were trained in 2011 alone and, since the start of the project, some 440,000 workers and middle managers received this training. 84% of all factories producing for H&M in Bangladesh are now using the films as part of their worker training programme. Due to its success, during 2012, we plan to produce and implement similar films in India alongside the NGO Solidaridad.
 hm.com/beyondmonitoring
 hm.com/monitoringiNC rEaSE wOrk ErS’ aw ar EN ESS  Of ThEir r igh TS
NUMBER OF WORKERS TRAINED PER YEAR 
AND ACCUMULATED 2008–2011
28,807442,031
128,958
115,195169,071
2008 2009 2010 2011 Total
 2.14 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 40  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  2012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 20
0 fa Cto
ries bein G analy
sed by ind
ePend
ent auditors
For many years, we have required all our 
suppliers to pay their employees the wages they are entitled to, by law or through other 
applicable standards such as collective bargaining agreements. However, we also want to play a role in ensuring that these wages are fair. That is why in 2011 we joined the Fair Wage Network and initiated an independent evaluation of wage structures at about 200 supplier factories that together produce more than 50% of our products. The concept of a ‘Fair Wage’ takes into account living costs, profitability and whether or not wages are set through negotiations. Assessments are being conducted by independent auditors of the Fair Labor Association (FLA) at the beginning of 2012. We expect the data to provide us and our suppliers with helpful knowledge to further address this complex and important issue.
 hm.com/fairwages
 fair-wage.com
 fairlabor.orgaSSESS  wag E S TruCTur ES aT Sup pli Er 
faCT
OriES a
gai NS
T fai
r wagE C
ONCE pT
Timescale:  2013
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Conf
eren Ce
 held with broad attendan Ce
 of rele Van
t aCtor
s;  
trainin G ProGram me fo
r sele Cte
d su PPlie
rs started
A t H&M, we believe that social dialogue is a key element of successful and stable business operations – both for ourselves and for our 
suppliers. However, many of the countries our suppliers are located in lack systems of social dialogue, such as collective negotiations on wages and working conditions. In Bangladesh in particular, this has in the past lead to violent unrest and instability. With help of a comprehensive training programme, we have selected suppliers to develop best practice examples of social dialogue at individual factories. The training, conducted by consultants from Just Solutions, will, amongst other things, lead to the democratic election of functioning worker participation committees. The project is part of H&M’s Bangladesh Development Plan.
 hm.com/beyondmonitoring
 hm.com/bangladeshplanprOmOTE  bETT Er S OC ia l dial Ogu E iN ThE g arm EN T iNdu STry i N baNgl ad ESh
“Through our participation in the social  dialogue project,  I strongly believe that we will contribute to stabilising the dialogue between the management and the workers.”
rubana huq, man aging dir ector  
at m
g S
hirtex ltd
., ban
gladesh
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 41  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
also address this issue at an industry level through our 
close relationship with the ILO-BFC Program and with other concerned stakeholders across Cambodia. Furthermore, we continue working on a thorough action plan in order to find lasting solutions to this complex challenge throughout the sector.
 justmeans.com/reportsTimescale:  on Goi nG  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: faCtor
y aCti
on Pla
ns followed-u P, i
ndustry wide a Cti
on Promo
ted
During the summer and autumn of 2011, incidents of mass illness occurred in ten Cambodian garment and footwear 
factories, of which five factories were producing for H&M, among others. In order to understand the underlying reasons for these worrying incidents, H&M appointed external experts to evaluate these factories. The challenge has been to find out why these incidents happened only in Cambodia and at factories producing different kinds of products, which made it difficult to find a pattern. The investigation reports do not point out one single reason or explanation. Instead, they identified a number of improvement opportunities, as well as a lack of communication between managers and workers, some of which was due to language barriers. In line with the recommendations from these reports, the concerned factories developed dedicated action plans and improvements have been achieved in cooling, ventilation and chemical handling. In other areas, including grievance handling and the creation of Health & Safety committees that involve workers, further progress is needed. We continue our work to Supp
OrT i
mpr OvEmEN
TS iN wOrk
pla CE hEalTh & SafETy a Nd C
Omm
uNiCaTiON  
SyST
EmS iN C
amb Odi
a
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 42  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
CONT iNuE T O p rOmOT E b aN O N 
SaNdb
laSTiNg am ON g O
ThEr br
aNdS
Timescale:  on Goi nG  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: ba
n on sandblastin G for
 our Produ Cti
on i
n PlaCe si
nCe
 2010
Sandblasting is a technique used to create worn 
looks, mainly on denims. But without the use of sufficient protection equipment it can be 
hazardous for workers. In 2010, H&M, together with Levi’s, introduced a ban on the use of sandblasting in our supply chains, having already enforced strict safety requirements since 2006. To further eliminate the use of this technique in our industry, we support the international union ITGLWF in their work to encourage more brands to follow our example. We also continue to audit safety requirements for sandblasting facilities in factories that produce for H&M, even though they are no longer permitted to use these facilities for H&M production. More and more of these factories are deciding to replace sandblasting with safer alternatives, such as manual scraping or laser techniques.
 hm.com/sandblasting
 itglwf.orgTimescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Ple
dGe s
iGne
d to not intentionally use uzb
ek Cot
ton 
H&M does not accept underage workers being used anywhere in our value chain, including in cotton cultivation. The global cotton 
supply chain is often complex and we do not have direct business relations with cotton producers, but we are nevertheless constantly addressing the issue of forced child labour in the Uzbek cotton industry. In 2011, together with about 60 other brands, NGOs and others, we signed a pledge facilitated by the Responsible Sourcing Network committing us not knowingly to use Uzbek cotton. We are working continuously to improve the traceability of the cotton used for our products. While our systems continue to evolve, we aim for all cotton to come from more sustainable, fully traceable sources by 2020 at the latest. At the same time, we have worked to influence relevant policy-makers. In 2011, the European parliament rejected a trade deal that would have made it easier for Uzbekistan to export textiles to Europe. We continue to welcome political efforts that can help to end the use of child labour in Uzbekistan.
 hm.com/cotton
 sourcingnetwork.orgCONT iNuE T O p rOmOT E i mpr OvEmEN TS iN ThE uz bEk C OTTON  iNdu STry
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONSCOMMITMENT 2 — Ch OO sE aNd r Eward r EspON sIblE par TNE rs 43  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Timescale:  on Goi nG
sTaTus
 snapsho T: tir
uPur
 exPor
ter ass
oCia
tion ( te
a) re
quested all member ComPan
ies 
to boy Cot
t sPinnin G mills
 with suman Gali
 sChe
mes
Sumangali schemes are a form of forced labour 
that involves young women being sent from their home villages usually to work in spinning 
mills. In Tamil, ‘sumangali’ refers to an unmarried girl becoming a respectable woman through marriage. In return for their work the women and their families are promised a dowry at the end of a three-year contract. H&M views sumangali schemes as absolutely unacceptable and not compliant with the minimum requirements of our Code of Conduct. We address the issue with our suppliers and monitor the existence of any kinds of forced labour through our audit programme. However, as sumangali schemes occur mainly in spinning mills, which are usually second-tier suppliers, we do not have direct contractual influence. We therefore work to address this issue through collaborative actions and public policy.add
rES
S ThE iSSuE Of Sum
aNga
li S
ChEmES iN ThE i
Ndi
aN T
ExTilE iNdu STry  
Thr Oug
h C
Ol
lab Or
aTivE aCTiO
N
In 2011, we joined an Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) project, which coordinates efforts by the industry and by local stakeholders, such as Tirupur People’s Forum (TPF) and Tirupur Stakeholder Forum (TSF). As a result, Tirupur Export Association (TEA) has requested that their members boycott spinning mills where such schemes are in operation.
 hm.com/beyondmonitoring
Contents
44  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011A s we strive to be as transparent as possible, 
on the following pages we present an overview of data from our supply chain  
and our supplier Full Audit Programme. 
Based on estimates from information submitted by 
our suppliers, globally 61% of the employees at our supplier factories are women. This represents about 700,000 in total.In 2011 we worked with 747 suppliers. Out of these, 150 are long term strategic partners. 58% of all pieces ordered were placed with these partners. 
Each of our suppliers may own or subcontract 
multiple factories. This means that, globally, 1,652 factories were approved for making goods for the H&M Group. 392 of these were considered ‘key’ factories, representing 52% of the ordered pieces. These key factories show an above average sustainability performance (see graph 2.20, p46).OU r S U pply  C HAIN D ATA  AT A g lAN Ce
 2.15 SUPPLIE RS AND FA CTORIE S
220
311
216296160
10616952%
11758%
464675513% of pieces ordered
at strategic partners
Number of factories
Number of ‘key’ factories
% of pieces produced
at ‘key’ factoriesNumber of suppliers
Number of
strategic partners
EMEA
Far East
South AsiaCOMMI tMeNt 2  — C HO OSe a Nd re ward re SpON SIbl e part NerS 
61%
Of t He e MplOye eS  
at
 O
Ur S
Uppl Ier
  
faCtOrIeS  
ar
e w OM eN
61%91%85% 84%81%77%
69% 68%62%59%55% 53%
17%
Total RomaniaI ndo-
nesiaCam-
bodiaGreece Vietnam TaiwanC hina 
(excl. Hong Kong)ItalyI ndia Turkey Bangla-
deshPakistan% FE MALE S IN  SUPPLIE R FA CTORIE S IN  SELE CTED COUNTRIE S  2.16 
Contents
45  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011HEAD  AUDITS AND FO LLOW-UP AU DITS PER REGION
418
154572
2728511,123
274 3290.641.231.68
1.23
9641,0602,024
55
South Asia Far East EMEA Total
Head Audits
Follow-up Audits Average number 
audits per factoryTotal Audits	2.17	
We conducted a total of 2,024 audits in 2011. 
Most of these were follow-up audits in the Far East region. Most head audits were conducted in the South Asia region. The average number of audits per factory increased to 1.23 (2010: 1.14).	2.18	% OF HEAD AUDITS THAT 
WERE UNANNOUNCED 
68% 78% 
66% 
2009 2010 2011
Our ambition is that as many head audits as possible 
should be unannounced. Over the last two years,  the ratio of unannounced head audits increased from 66% to 78%.We monitor all our supplier factories regularly through audits. We also support them through management system analysis, screenings, workshops or trainings. Together, on average, each factory received such support 3.3 times during 2011. ‘Key’ factories were on average subject to 5.6 such activities.SUST AINABILI TY ACTIVITI ES
706 5373,161
1,0591,607
5892,185
1.44.6
4.7
3.55,474
3.3
Far East EMEA Total
Number of activities
all factories
Number of activities‘key’ factories All factory averageAverage ‘key’ factories6.3
South 
East Asia5.6 5.6 2.19 OU r S U pply  C HAIN D ATA  AT A g lAN CeCOMMI tMeNt 2  — C HO OSe a Nd re ward re SpON SIbl e part NerS 
Contents
46  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011PROGRE SS FROM HEAD  AUDIT 1 TO HEAD  AUDIT 3 PER AREA  OF REQUIR EMEN TS
83%85%
78% 78%79% 81%86%91% 94%89%
76%88%
78%80%
53%67%
Child 
labour and  
young workers’Workers’ basic rightsWorkers’ rightsHealth & SafetyEnvironment Housing 
conditionsSandblasting  
and chemical handlingTotal 2.21  2.20 AVERAGE SUPPLIE R 
SUST AINABILI TY SCORE (ICo C)
79.3%
76.2%
Total Factory AverageKey Factories By the end of 2011 a total of 400 factories (142 in 
EMEA, 63 in Far East and 195 in South Asia) had completed their third head audit within our Full Audit Programme. One audit cycle takes around  18 – 24 months and includes typically one head audit and three follow ups. The data show that these factories achieved a two percentage point increase in their total compliance during this process. This must be seen in the light of improvements in our audit methods over time, which has an effect on the direct comparability of the results, although we aim The average sustainability score (ICoC) among all factories reached 76.2% in 2011. Key factories show above average performance. to make the data as comparable as possible. This is particularly the case for workers’ basic rights. During 2011, a methodological change has been implemented for this area of requirements in order to improve the detection of instances of non-compliance. As a large number of factories (225) completed their third head audit during 2011 based on this improved methodology, we had expected a decrease in compliance with workers’ basic rights and were pleased to see a stabilised level instead.OU r S U pply  C HAIN D ATA  AT A g lAN CeCOMMI tMeNt 2  — C HO OSe a Nd re ward re SpON SIbl e part NerS 
Contents
47  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011Com Plian Ce le Vel f rom 2011 audits on all a CtiVe fa Cto ries Per a rea of requirements
eme
a fa
r eas
t sout
h asia tota
l
area
 of requirements Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance 
Child lab
our and young workers 65% 84% 99% 84%
Workers’ basic rights 70% 84% 76% 77%
Workers’ rights 76% 62% 83% 75%
heal
th and safety 76% 73% 81% 78%
env
ironment 68% 59% 63% 62%
hou
sing 68% 85% 80% 84%
home
 workers n.a. 32% n.a. 32%
sand
blasting and chemicals 52% 70% 75% 70%
meta
l plating n.a. 78% 100% 82%
tra
nsparency and monitoring 95% 93% 98% 96%
Grand tot
al 73% 74% 80% 77%
  Please find details per audit question and further commentary here.
production countries 2011: 
em
ea: bul
garia, den
mark, egy
pt, fra
nce, Germany, Greece, ita
ly, lat
via, lith
uania, mor
occo, nethe
rlands, Poland, Portugal, rom
ania, u
k, ukr
aine, swed
en, tun
isia, tur
key
far
 eas
t: China (incl. hong
 kong
), Cambodia, indone
sia, sou
th kore
a, taiw
an, thai
land, Vietnam
south
 asia
: ban
gladesh, ind
ia, Pakistan, sr
i lan
ka
Supplier and factory terminology definitions: 
sup
plier is an independent company with which h&m ha
s a direct business relationship. fac
tories are all factories which were approved for production. thi
s includes factories owned or subcontracted by our suppliers.  
one s
upplier may own or subcontract multiple factories.‘Key’ factories are factories graded either ‘key’ or ‘selected’ in our factory grading system. These factories are identified as best performing factories in various regards, 
including sustainability and significance to our business. ‘ str
ategic’ partners are suppliers graded either platinum or gold in our supplier relation management system.
sec
ond-tier suppliers or factories are the suppliers of our suppliers, such as fabric or yarn manufacturers. in ge
neral, h&m h
as no direct business relationship with actors at this stage of the value chain.abOU t O U r S Uppl IerS
OU r S U pply  C HAIN D ATA  AT A g lAN Ce
Contents
48  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
BE  
ETHICAL3
Contents
49  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL
aNN -Charl OT TE 
bErg
liNd
, 
Empl OyEE 
rE laTiO
NS 
maNagEr, h&m 
hE ad O
ffi CE, 
STO
Ck h Ol
m
“being ethical in my daily work is all 
a
bout creating a positive emp
loyee 
rel
ations climate. on
e that respects 
and supports the rights of our 
colleagues. Creating an atmosphere that values each and every person at 
h&m a
s our greatest asset is 
crucial for our success. enga
ged 
employees, fully involved in, and enthusiastic about, their work, will continue to provide our customers with great customer service and help 
h&m t
o grow and to employ 
even more colleagues.”To us, being ‘ethical’ means acting with 
integrity at all times and in all of our activities. We rely on many thousands of 
people and hundreds of relationships with other companies and organisations in delivering our business objectives. Whether they are customers, colleagues or business partners, we believe that showing respect towards everyone who contributes to H&M’s success is fundamental to our business.Our ethical approach is firmly rooted in our corporate values. We take a clear stand against all forms of corruption and regard our diversity as an asset. Our employees are key to our success and it’s vital for us to retain our committed and talented colleagues, and as we grow to attract even more such people. As a result, we want to ensure that we are a fair partner to them as well as to our suppliers. We, as a minimum, comply with all relevant laws and regulations and, beyond that, aim to act ethically in everything we do. 
5,434
 New f Ull-  
tI
Me e
qUIv a
leNt  
jObS Cre
ated
6 years 
aver age leNg tH O f  
eMp
lOyMeNt  
Of O
Ur f Ull
-tIMe 
CO llea
gUeS
50%
 Of O U r b Oar d 
MeMber S ar
e 
wOM eNCommitment
S  
BE  
ETHICAL3
ann-Charlotte berGlind
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS50  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICALTimescale:  2012  
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: au
dit method de Vel
oPed
For several years, we have had an internal audit 
system in place to monitor compliance with different internal policies and guidelines in all 
our in-house operations. Building on this, we have developed a dedicated internal audit procedure for HR-related processes and policies, including training requirements and employee relations policies such as those covering diversity, discrimination and equality. The first audits are planned to be completed in early 2012.
 hm.com/fairpartnerTimescale:  on Goi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 5,
434 new full-time equi Val
ent Job
s in 2011
H&M is a growing company. Our aim is to increase our number of stores by 10-15% each year. In 2011 alone, we created more 
than 5,400 new full-time equivalent jobs net. Over the last five years, our growth has resulted in the net creation of 24,019 full-time equivalent jobs globally. Additionally, our business contributes to job opportunities for more than one million people employed by our suppliers. While the economic climate is challenging in many countries, we are confident that we will create further employment both in our own operations and throughout our value chain.
 hm.com/fairpartneriNiTiaTE aN iNT ErNal a udi T 
prOgr
amm E T
O mON iTOr  
CO mp
lia NC
E w
iTh h
r rElaTEd 
pOliCiES aNd pr OCE
SSES CO
NT iNuE TO C rEaTE aNd C
ONT ri
bu TE T
O E mp
lOym EN
T O ppOrTuNiTiES
9%
gr Ow t H  
IN eMp
lOyMeNt  
IN 2
011ACCUMULATED NET JOB CREATION 
2007-2011 (FULL -TIME EQUIVALENT)
6,17412,57518,585
12,62124,019
2008 2007 2009 2010 2011
Net job creation acc.
2007-2011 (full-time equivalent) 3.0 
INC rea Se5,434
 
fUll-
tI
Me e
qUIv a
leNt jObS 
Cre
ated I
N 
2011
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS51  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICALdEvElOp a Nd im plEmEN T a g lOba l 
Tra
iNiNg SyST
Em
Timescale:  2013   
sTaTus
 snapsho T: tra
inin G sy
stem de Vel
oPed
 and first tests su CCe
ssfully Condu Cte
d
We want our colleagues to feel valued and to 
give them the opportunity to grow and develop within H&M. As we grow, we 
need to ensure that our training is of a consistent quality worldwide while also taking into account diverse local needs. Therefore, we have strengthened our global training organisation and developed a global learning management system called ‘GROW’. Among other benefits, the system allows all our employees globally to access e-learning courses and relevant information about training within the H&M Group. It also serves as a course booking facility for instruction-led training sessions (ILT) and a library for mandatory and optional training courses, including education on sustainability. All of the courses are made up of modules suited to different needs. We use various training techniques, including ILT, which is classroom-based, and self-study with e-learning tools, which is carried out either at the workplace or from home. The system will go live during 2012 and the implementation will continue into 2013.
 hm.com/trainingTimescale:  2012   
sTaTus
 snapsho T: PoliCy u
nder de Vel
oPme
nt
All our colleagues have the right to work in an environment free of harassment. To emphasise this, in 2011 we initiated the development of 
a globally-applicable anti-harassment policy. We plan to finalise the policy in 2012 and communicate it to all colleagues. We intend to make this policy, as well as all other relevant policies, part of our mandatory induction process for all new employees within the H&M Group. Compliance with the policy in our different subsidiaries will be promoted through our new dedicated HR audit procedure.
 hm.com/fairpartnerimpl EmENT  N Ew gl Oba l a NT i-
h
ara SSmEN
T pOliCy
 More information hm.com/training
72%
 
Of O
Ur MaNag
er S  
ar
e fe Mal e
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS52  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICALTimescale:  2012    
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 
75% ComPlia
nCe
Over recent years, we have worked to 
strengthen the collection of safety-related data from our global business units. To 
minimise the risk of accidents, we conduct yearly audits in all our stores. As part of this, the auditor helps stores to make action plans to reach our standards for a safe working environment. We are targeting a compliance level of 90% by the end of 2012.Timescale:  on Goi nG  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 3,6
84 e VaCua
tion trainin G ses
sions arran Ged
We want to create a pleasant working environment throughout our operations. This includes ensuring that our employees 
are safe. Where accidents and occupational illness are a risk, measures must be taken to prevent them. All employees working at H&M have a responsibility for safety, so training is vital. We need to ensure that 100% of our employees are trained from the beginning of their employment. This is why we will start integrating our security and safety training into our digital Learning Management System during 2012. E
NSur E bES
T pOS
Sib
lE wOrk
pla CE SafETyiN
CrEaSE C
Omp
lia NC
E w
iTh SafETy 
pOliCiES iN Our S
TOrES T
O 90%
COMPLIANCE WITH SAFETY
REQUIREMENTS AT STORE AUDITS
90%
75%
2011 2012 target 3,684 
evaCU atIO N  
tr
aIN
INg SeSSI
ONS   
IN St Ore S  
ar
r a Nge
d 2,973 
StOre aU dItS  
CO
NdU
Cte
d2,792
fIre Safety  
t
r a IN
INg SeSSI
ONS   
IN StOre S  
ar
r a Ng
ed
 3.1 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS53  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICALTimescale:  on Goi nG 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: aPPro
ximately 100% of ConCe
rned em Plo
yees si Gne
d the Code
As well as requiring our external business 
partners to sign up to our Code of Ethics, we have made it mandatory for all our employees 
globally who are in contact with business partners to do so too. Based on an assessment of our entire business, central office positions have been identified as carrying higher risks. In 2011, approximately 100% of all employees in concerned positions and around 90% of all our business partners had signed the Code and most of them have received related training. We will continue to focus on implementation and training. During 2011, we conducted six related internal audits to verify that sufficient monitoring processes are in place in all our business units. During 2011, we handled seven incidents of non-compliances, of which five led to terminations and two to formal written warnings.
 hm.com/codeofethicsENSur E C O mp lia NC E w iTh Our C OdE  
Of E ThiC
S
Collection and protection of personal data by our subsidiaries throughout the world must comply with relevant national standards and legislation. Employee data that is handled at Group level (through H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB), such as data included in  our global training system, as well as by all Sweden-based subsidiaries, needs to comply with all related Swedish legislation.
 hm.com/privacypolicyTimescale:  on Goi nG  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 89
4 trainin G ses
sions on information se Curi
ty
As a major retailer, H&M does hold data about both our customers and our employees. This includes data used in our mail order 
operations. Many stakeholders are increasingly concerned about data security risks. H&M sets a high standard in protecting personal privacy. Our data security standard stipulates, among other things, that:
•	Personal
	d
ata	s
hall	b
e	p
rocessed	o
nly	f
or	t
he	
pu
rpose for which the information is collected
•	No	mo
re	pe
rsonal	da
ta	is	pr
ocessed	th
an	is	ne
cessary	
wi
th regard to the purpose of the processing
•	The	p
ersonal	d
ata	p
rocessed	i
s	c
orrect	a
nd,	i
f	
ne
cessary, up-to-date
•	All	r
easonable	m
easures	a
re	t
aken	t
o	c
orrect,	b
lock	
or el
iminate incorrect data
•	The	p
ersonal	d
ata	s
hall	n
ot	b
e	k
ept	l
onger	t
han	
ne
cessary
•	Personal 	d
ata	s
hall	b
e	p
rotected	f
rom	u
nauthorised 	
us
e/processing.prOT
ECT  CuST
OmEr a Nd Emp
lOyEE d
aTa
894
INfOrMatIO N  
SeCU rIty
 tra ININ gS 
ar
r a Ng
ed I
N S
ale S 
Org
aNI
SatION  
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS54  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICALTimescale:  end o f 2012 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: tr
ainin G for
 lower risk Cat
eGory
 em Plo
yees de Vel
oPed
Based on our risk assessment, our Code of 
Ethics is mandatory only to employees in contact with business partners, however we 
aim to create broader awareness among all employees about our policy. By the end of 2012, 100% of all employees defined as lower risk (e.g. sales advisors in our stores) should have received dedicated information. In order to ensure that new employees receive the same information, we have made it a mandatory element of their induction process.
 hm.com/codeofethicsraiSE a war EN ESS  Of Our C OdE Of E ThiCS a mON g al l Our Emp lOyEE S
Contents
55  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
OU r C O lle AgUeS’ D ATA A T A g lAN Ce
The H&M Group keeps 
growing and creating new jobs, both in total as well as in full-time equivalents.Over the last five years,  our growth created a net job contribution of accumulated 24,019 full-time equivalent jobs globally. This amounts to an average net creation of more than 4,800 jobs or 10% per year.NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2006–2011
50,000
40,85560,000
47,02968,000
53,43073,000
53,47694,000
64,87487,000
59,440
2008 2007 2006 2009 2010 2011
Number of employees
TotalNumber of employeesFull-time equivalent 3.2 
%15% 14%
11%
0%9%ACCUMULATED NET JOB CREATION 
2007–2011 (FULL -TIME EQUIVALENT)
6,17412,57518,585
12,62124,019
2008 2007 2009 2010 2011 3.3 COMMI tMeNt 3  — b e e tHI Cal
On the following pages, we present an 
overview of data relating to our colleagues around the world.
63%
 
 
Of
 O
Ur C
Ol
leag UeS  
ar
e C
Ove
red by  
CO lle CtIve
  
barga ININ g  
a
gree MeNtS29
 
year S IS tHe 
av
er age age Of  
OU r C
Ollea
gUeS
MOre t HaN 94,000
 
eMp
lOyee S  
(2
010: 87,000)
Contents
56  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
RATIO OF FEMALES
72%80%
Total
ColleaguesManagementOU r C O lle AgUeS’ D ATA A T A g lAN CeCOMMI tMeNt 3  — b e e tHI Cal
RATIO FULL -TIME VS PART-TIME 
EMPLOYEES 2011
46%
Full-time54%
Part-timeRATIO PERMANENT VS TEMPORARYEMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS 2011
23%
Temporary
employment contract
77%
Permanentemployment contractRATIO MEN VS WOMEN 
AT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
50%
Women
50%
Men
80% of all our colleagues are 
women, and they also represent 72% of our management positions (from store managers to CEO).54% (2010: 60%) of our employees work part time and 46% (2010: 40%) full time. Full-time and part-time positions are defined according to applicable national or local standards. Part-time positions are often occupied by students or parents.77% (2010: 79%) of our employees have permanent employment contracts, 23% (2010: 21% ) temporary ones. This includes replacements during parental leave or other kinds of leave. While we do not follow a formal quota, our Board of Directors is equally split between women and men (five women and five men, including two female employee representatives). 
 3.4  3.5  3.6 	3.7	
Contents
57  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
BE CLIMATE 
SMART4
Contents
58  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART-11%
eNergy U S e  
pe
r Sq Ua
re Met
re  
IN StOre
  
SI
NC e 20
07
Over
80% 
Of v OlUM eS  
SH
Ipped
 fr OM  O
Ur 
SUppl Ier S tO O
Ur 
dI
Str IbUtION  CeNtr
eS  
by Sea Or r a IlhidEaki Tak ami, 
rE giO
Nal
 
lOgiSTiC
S 
CON
TrOllEr –
 
aSia
, h
ON g k
ON g
“Today, H&M’s logistics are on a 
global scale with a high level of complexity. 
tra
nsporting goods can 
have a big climate impact. my wo
rk 
is to collect necessary information to support and encourage all our logistics sites to be as efficient as possible, save energy, and minimise climate impacts. 
i b
elieve that being 
climate smart can be achieved by good team work and by making sure that everyone who can play a role in reducing our emissions is well informed about how to do so. I’m happy to be a part of this.”Climate change is one of the major challenges 
of our time. As much as any other organisation or individual on the planet, we have an 
interest in taking action to tackle this, and also a responsibility to do so.
The nature of our core business means that we 
consume energy for transport and electricity. We strive to be as energy efficient as possible and  to ensure that an ever-greater proportion of our energy comes from renewable sources. In the long term, we aspire to contribute to more greenhouse gas reductions globally than our operations emit. To achieve this aspiration we need to use our influence to raise awareness and encourage action on climate change well beyond the scope of our direct operations.
We are developing and supporting emissions 
reduction initiatives – by working with transport providers and supplier factories, by raising awareness among the general public and by lobbying governments for stricter legislation.
We want to inspire our customers to play their  
own role in reducing the climate impact of buying and using our products.
3.16 
tONN eS C O2e  
per  MI llIO
N  
Sek Of Sal
eS  
(20
10: 3.33  tONN eS)
hideaki takamiCommitment
S  
BE CLIMATE 
SMART4
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS59  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMARTTimescale:  eaCh ye ar until 2012  
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: aChie Ve
d 
In 2011, we achieved our target for a 5% reduction 
in emissions through offsetting. CO2-e emissions 
per million SEK sales were 3.16 tonnes (2010: 
3.33). The reduction was achieved through reducing the transportation of goods via air by 32%, through improved energy efficiency in our stores and by offsetting using Gold Standard verified carbon reduction projects. During 2011, H&M began using an energy and resource management software system which is enabling major advances in environmental data collection and analysis. For consistency and comparability of our climate impact year on year, we have applied the new system to our climate results back to 2009, our baseline year. The result is a slight shift in the base year intensity (from 3.38 to 3.50 tCO
2e/MSEK sales), but the trajectory of climate 
target remains a minimum 5% reduction year on year.
 hm.com/climaterE du CE d ir EC T g rEE NhOuSE g aS EmiSSiON S b y 5%  rElaTivE T O SalES
Scope 1 (direct emissions, 
i.e. fuel use)
Scope 2  (indirect emissions 
from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam)
Scope 3  (other indirect 
emissions, such as resulting from outsourced transport and business travel)2011 CO2 BY SCOPE
35.6%
Scope 3
61%
Scope 23.3%
Scope 1
2011 CO2 
BY EMISSIONS SOURCE
4.0%
People Transport
10.9%
Goods Air Transport
13.3%
Goods Road Transport
7.3%
Goods Ocean Transport
0.6%
Goods Rail Transport53.9%
Stores Electricity10.0%
Other Facilities 4.0  4.1 
 4.2 CO2-e EMISSIONS IN TONNES
3.53.33
3 3.16
2010 2009 2011 2012 (target)
CO2e emissions in tonnes 
per million SEK sales
tCO2e offset0.55 0.5
0 0
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS60  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART“by supporting gold  Standard  carbon reduction projects, H& m  is m
itigating climate change and benefiting communities around the world. The support of H& m m
akes clean energy available in growing economies to displace the use of fossil fuels, as well as providing additional benefits at the  project sites, such as employment for residents, improved air quality,  and support for local schools.”
Jonathan Shopley, man aging dir ector,  
The CarbonNeutral Company
 desiGned for u k Cli mate week41
 
 
faCtOrIeS pa
rt IC
Ipa
tINg  
IN SUppl Ier
 e
Ner
gy 
effIC
IeNC y prOgr
aMM eS-5%
IN relat Ive
CO2-e e MISSIONS  
100%
Of O U r tr a NSpOrt  
part Ner S I
N tHe  
U
S a Nd Ca Nad
a  
are S Mart
w ay  
reg ISter
ed
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS61  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMARTTimescale:  by 20 11 
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: all n
ew stores equi PPed w
ith l
ed s
tore si Gns
LED lights save up to 75% of energy use 
compared to neon lights. In 2011 we have made it a requirement to use LED lights for 
logo signs in all newly built stores. We estimate that this shift during 2011 alone has made possible a reduction of about 470 tonnes CO
2e – equivalent 
to the emissions caused by the electricity use of about 60 households in one year. We plan to gradually replace the signs across all our stores as these are rebuilt or refurbished.
 hm.com/energyuSE  lEd l igh TS fOr al l S TOrE SigNS  
aT N
Ew S
TOrES
Timescale:  by 20 20 
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: 11
% redu Cti
on in ener Gy us
e Per s
tore square met re 
Our target for energy efficiency is to reduce store energy use per store square metre by 20% by 2020, against a 2007 baseline. With 
an 11% reduction achieved by 2011, we are on track to achieve this target. Total energy use has been reduced in newly built and rebuilt stores through the implementation of environmental guidelines for new stores. Reductions in existing stores are the result of a constant management focus on energy efficiency.
 hm.com/climaterE du CE E NE rg y u SE iN S TOrES b y 20%  pEr Squar E mETrE, C Omp ar Ed T O 2007
REDUCTIONS OF ENERGY USE PER STORE
SQUARE METRE (2007 BASELINE)
-20%-11%-8%
2010 2020 target 2011 4.3 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS62  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMARTTimescale:  2020  
sTaTus
 snapsho T: ow
n Pho
toVol
taiC i
nstallation Gen
erates about 705,000 kwh
Sourcing more electricity from renewable 
sources is a key target, but it remains difficult to monitor progress in achieving it because of the 
lack of a robust framework for defining what qualifies as renewable energy.
We are working with a range of stakeholders, 
including the European Retail Round Table (ERRT)and its members, the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), to find a consensus on how to define, measure and report on renewable energy use. Despite this uncertainty, we have made investments to help us move towards this target. For example, photovoltaic solar panels have been installed at our distribution centres in Germany and Belgium. In 2011, both generated approximately 705,000 kwH of solar energy – enough to supply about 130 average European households with energy for one year.
 hm.com/climateSOur CE aT lEaST 20%  Of Our E NE rg y 
frOm r EN
Ew a
blE S
Our CE
S
product life cycle as they indicate that the 45 factories participating so far alone emit a similar amount of CO
2 to all our c. 2,500 stores.
 hm.com/energyTimescale:  2012 and beyond  
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: 41
 faCtori
es Par
tiCiPat
inG
At H&M, we recognise that our climate responsibility extends not only to our direct emissions and those of our energy providers, 
but also to those emissions that are created in the manufacturing and distribution of the goods that we sell. During 2010, we worked with business partners to set up Supplier Energy Efficiency Programmes in a number of our production countries. The programmes connect supplier factories to energy service companies to identify potential efficiency gains and provide support for developing action plans to take advantage of these. Our target is to include 100–120 factories within these programmes by 2012. By 2011, 45 factories in China, Bangladesh, India and Turkey had undergone (14) or started (31) this process. During 2011, we developed data baselines for participating factories and we will evaluate their performance against these during 2012. Already, the first data indicate energy efficiency improvements of around 20%. They also highlight the importance of improving energy efficiency at this stage of our prOmOT
E E
NE rg
y Eff
iCiEN
Cy iN Our Sup
ply Cha
iN
45
 
 
SUppl Ier S Hav
e Set
  
Up S
Uppl Ier
 eNer
gy 
eff I
CIeNC y  
prOgr
aMM eS20%
IMprOve MeNt I N  
eNer
gy eff I
CIeNC y 
INdICat
ed fr OM   
fIrSt r
eSUltS
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS63  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMARTTimescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 10
0% of Core r
oad Carri
ers are now sm
art way
 Par
tners
Where road transport has to be used, we 
aim to limit emissions as much as possible. SmartWay is a programme run by the US 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that offers evaluation and certification of the environmental performance of road carriers. All SmartWay Partners are recognised for their commitment to reducing emissions from their fleets. In 2011, all of our core road carriers in the US and Canada were registered as SmartWay partners, up from 70% in 2010.
 hm.com/transport
 epa.gov/smartwayENCO urag E a ll Our m aiN rOad  
Car
riErS iN NOrTh amEriCa  
TO  bEC
OmE S
mar Tw ay p
ar TN
ErS
Timescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: mor
e than 80% of all Goo
ds shi PPed Via s
ea or rail from suPPli
ers
In 2011, more than 80% of the volumes we transported were shipped from suppliers to our distribution centres via sea or rail. As an example 
of how we work, we are increasingly shifting from road to rail when moving goods from Turkey, an important sourcing market, to our European sales markets. On the routes from Turkey to our Asian sales markets, we have also worked to limit air transport and use ocean carriers instead. Graph 4.4 shows progress to date in making this shift. For the first time, in 2011 most of the goods coming from Turkey were transported by rail. Air transport has been almost completely avoided. Given this positive development, we will continue working to shift transport to environmentally preferable modes wherever possible.
 hm.com/transportTra NSpOrT aS m aNy g OO dS aS pOS Sib lE v ia E Nvi rON mEN Tal ly  
prEfEr
abl E mOdES
 4.4 
2009 2010 2011
Sea Air Rail RoadRATIO OF VOLUMES SHIPPED (m3) PER 
MODES OF TRANSPORT FROM TURKEY 2011
10%
9%
1%43%
11%
0%45%80%91%
7%
0%1%
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS64  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMARTTimescale:  2012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: in
 most Cou
ntries a Ch
ieVed
Until a SmartWay equivalent is developed in 
Europe, WayAhead, which we developed in collaboration with members of the 
European Retail Round Table (ERRT), remains the best tool for evaluating European truck carriers’ environmental performance. Since 2010 we have used it to communicate our minimum requirements for transport service providers and to evaluate their compliance. By the end of 2011, our transport partners in most European countries were registered. We are confident that our carriers in the few remaining countries will be registered during the 2012 tender processes.
 hm.com/transport
 way-ahead.orgENCO urag E a ll Our C OrE Car riErS 
iN E
ur OpE T
O bEC
OmE wayahEad 
rEgiST
ErEd
Timescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: dis Cus
sion on Goi
nG
Alongside other companies, in 2010, we started promoting the possibility of setting up a programme in Europe similar to the 
SmartWay programme in the US. We strongly believe in the concept and feel that there is a need for such a programme. Future implementation in Europe would replace the ERRT WayAhead initiative, which we currently promote among our carriers in Europe.
 hm.com/transportprOmOTE  ThE dEvElOpm EN T Of a 
Sm
arTw ay Equ
ival EN
T SyST
Em iN E
urOpE
Timescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: all s
hiPPinG ProVid
ers are now reGis
tered
The Clean Shipping Project aims to improve the environmental performance of the shipping industry. We have been part of the Clean 
Shipping Network for a number of years and promote its use amongst our carriers. The Clean Shipping Index monitors the environmental performance of maritime transport service providers worldwide. Service providers enter vessel-specific data into a database, which scores their performance. Originally limited to Sweden, the Index was launched Europe-wide in 2010. Registration in the Clean Shipping Index was made a minimum requirement for our core ocean carriers in 2010. Since 2011, all our shipping providers have been registered and submitted the requested data. We have now made it a requirement that data for at least two of their registered vessels must be third party verified.
 hm.com/transport
 cleanshippingproject.seprOmOTE  ThE C lEaN S hippi Ng i NdEx 
am ON g Our OC
EaN Car
riErS
Contents
65  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
REDUCE,  
R EUSE,  
R ECYCLE5
Contents
66  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
daVid ro stron
david rO ST rO N, 
bui
ldi Ng 
CON
TrOllEr 
 
h&m u
k aNd 
irElaNd,
 l
ON dON
“helping the environment is a 
p
ersonal thing to me, but being a 
part of h&m a
llows me to contribute 
to a team effort with much wider 
impact. as bu
ilding controller, i 
c
an combine cost savings with 
sustainability goals such as increasing recycling rates for operational and construction waste or reducing the electricity use in all stores. 
as pa
rt of my role i a
lso 
work with experts to identify how we can reduce both the operational and embedded carbon of our stores. 
reduc
ing our impact on the 
environment makes good business sense – but it’s also something we have to do as human beings before future generations pay the price. 
bei
ng part of a corporation that can 
and does make a difference means a lot to me.”Offering our customers fashion and quality 
at the best price means that we need to keep unnecessary costs down. Making the 
most of the resources we buy and avoiding waste at every stage of our value chain is central to this. This resource efficiency also helps us to minimise the negative environmental impact of our operations.
Manufacturing waste, transport and product 
packaging, shopping bags, shop fittings and construction waste from building new stores are all sources of waste generated across our operations. We want to reduce, reuse or recycle wherever possible. Our ultimate aim is to send zero waste to landfill.
However, at H&M we believe that our commitment 
to waste reduction should go beyond this. We also want to use our position as a major retailer to help our customers and business partners to reduce the waste that they generate.
 we U S ed  
r
eCyCle
d  
pOlye Ste
r  
eq UIv a
leNt t O 9.2m
 pet  
bOttle S
100%
Of O U r pla StIC 
CO
NSUM er b
ag S a
re 
Made
 Of
 re CyCle
d 
Mate
rIalCommitment
S  
REDUCE,  
REUSE,  
R ECYCLE5
USIN g r e USab le  
bOx
eS fOr  
t
r a NSpOrt t O O
Ur  
StOre S Sav
eS 400,000 
tree S e a CH  y ear 
CO
Mpa
red t O U
SIN g
 
CON ve NtION al
  
Car
tONS
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS67  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLETimescale:  2012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: st
rate Gy i
n de Vel
oPme
nt 
Waste management regulations and 
recycling opportunities vary from country to country, and sometimes even 
from region to region within a country. Some stores use the recycling facilities offered by shopping centres or landlords and others have separate waste contracts, or return waste to our distribution centres.
This broad variation of circumstances poses a 
challenge to implementing a consistent Group-wide approach. Our general requirement is that all waste should be reused or recycled, such as transport packaging and hangers. In order to have better knowledge and control over our waste impacts at a Group level, we are currently developing a global waste strategy. As part of this, we are working towards improved reporting on relevant waste indicators. 
 hm.com/recyclingdEvElOp a grOup -wid E w aST E S Tra TEgy
Timescale:  by 20 11
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Pil
ot Condu Cte
d in 17 stores
During 2011, we teamed up with iCollect to initiate a pilot in 17 of our stores in Switzerland to collect used garments from 
customers for recycling. To encourage our customers to take part in this initiative, we offered an H&M gift voucher for each bag of clothes brought to our stores. We plan to extend this project to all our stores in Switzerland and evaluate opportunities to extend this also to other countries.
 hm.com/recycling
 ico-spirit.comiNiTiaTE a p ilOT  p rOJ ECT  T O C OllEC T 
wOrN g
arm EN
TS fOr r ECyCliNg iN 
h&m S
TOrES
dress made from re CyCle d Cut  remnants
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS68  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLETimescale: on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: reCyCle
d Pol
yester equa lli
nG 9.
2 million P et bo
ttles used
We use a range of recycled materials to make 
some of our clothes, for example recycled cotton, recycled wool and recycled 
polyester. Recycled polyester is often made of PET plastic bottles. The amount that we used in 2011, equates to more than 9.2 million such bottles. While further innovations will be needed to help recycled materials play a bigger commercial role, we believe that we can support this process by driving demand and thereby encouraging further innovations.
 hm.com/consciousmaterialsfur ThEr pr OmOT E iNN OvaTiON  aNd ThE uSE Of r ECyClEd fa bri CS
Timescale:  2010
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 10
0% re CyCle
d Pe u
sed
Carrier bags can cause a lot of waste. In order to determine the best environmental choice for our consumer bags, we conducted an in-
depth life-cycle analysis comparing various materials. This showed that recycled plastic is the best available choice, with lower environmental impacts than paper. That is why we have switched to a recycled material for all of our standard plastic consumer bags. Since 2010, they have been made from 50% post-consumer and 50% pre-consumer recycled polyethylene (PE). This change has led to estimated savings in CO
2-e emissions of approximately 34% relative to 
conventional plastic.
 hm.com/carrierbagsmak E 100%  Of Our pla STiC Car riEr 
ba
gS Of r ECyClEd ma TEri
al
our  Plasti C Carri er baGs;  no w 10 0% re CyCle d34% 
leSS CO2-e  
eM
ISSIONS  tHaN 
CON ve NtION al
  
pla StIC100% 
re CyCled  
CO
NteNt I
N  
pl
aStIC 
 
bag S
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS69  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLErE du CE w aST E rESulTiNg fr Om C ONST ruCTiON  Of N Ew S TOrES
Timescale: on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: Gui
dan Ce
 deVel
oPed
We aim to increase the number of H&M 
stores by 10 – 15% each year. Building or rebuilding stores can create a lot of 
waste. Much of this, however, can be recycled and in many cases this can lead to cost reductions. To make sure that we make the best of these opportunities throughout our operations, we have developed further guidance for all our sales countries. We have also started to demand recycling reports for our construction projects. For many years, we have worked to use as little transport packaging as possible. This helps us to limit both our environmental impacts 
and our costs. When we send the garments from our distribution centres to our stores, we use reusable transport boxes instead of cartons. This makes savings of more than 400,000 trees possible compared with using new, conventionally made cardboard boxes for each delivery. We also work to minimise the use of single garment packaging when transporting products from our suppliers to our distribution centres. By 2011, we managed to minimise the use  of such packaging to almost zero.Timescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: reu
sable trans Por
t boxes sa Ve more
 than 400,000 trees  
ComPare
d to standard PaPer
 Cart
onsmiNimi SE Tra NSpOrT pa Cka giNg
90%
Of t He paper  
USed f Or Mak INg
  
OU r MaIl Ord
er  
paCk a
geS I
S  
re CyCle
d Card
bOard
C
ontents
70  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
USE NATUR AL 
RESOURCES 
R ESPONSIBLY6
Contents
71  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYClair E hau & 
lar S dO
EmEr, 
glOba
l h&m 
prOd
uCTiO
N 
Off
iCE, h
ON g 
kON g
“as a part of the global production 
o
ffice, we work closely with all 
our local production offices 
on environmental issues. we 
s
upport and initiate projects 
and programmes on energy and water saving and substitution of hazardous chemicals that lead to more responsible use of natural resources. 
act
ing proactively, 
we also work intensively with different industry partners, like the chemical industry, to find better alternatives and methods for production processes.” From using cotton to transporting finished 
garments and lighting our stores, H&M is a consumer of natural resources. We depend on 
them throughout our value chain to do business and meet the needs of our customers.
However, increasing scarcity of some resources 
globally, like oil and minerals, and regionally, like water or agricultural land, means that access to  these vital inputs for our business cannot be taken for granted.
At H&M, we recognise how important it is for all of 
us to use natural resources responsibly, considering the needs of both present and future generations. Growing scarcity tends to mean rising costs, so resource efficiency will increasingly be seen as a source of competitive advantage in our industry. 
To operate as a sustainable business, we are 
committed to conserving water, soil, air and species. We also try to influence our customers  and other stakeholders to help them use natural resources responsibly as well.
Claire hau & lars doe mer3.5m   
 
 kg le SS  
p
eStICI de U
Sed
  
dUe t O O
Ur U
Se Of 
Org
aNI
C C
Ot
tO
N
300m 
lItre S Of wa ter  
Sav
ed I
N d
eNI
M  
prOdUC tION   
(tar
get  100 M
)Commitment
S  
USE NATUR AL 
RESOURCES 
RESPONSIBLY6
100%
Of H&M paper 
Carr Ier ba
gS 
Made
 Of
 fSC
 
Cer
tIfIed
  
pa per
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS72  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
Timescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: ar
ound 3.5 million k G o
f Pes
tiCid
es sa Ved
By aiming to use only more sustainable cotton 
by 2020, we want, amongst other things, to contribute to significant reductions in the use 
of pesticides, fertilisers and water. The amount of organic cotton that we are already using today means that around 3.5 million kg less pesticide is used, compared with conventional cotton. This reduction will increase as we progress towards our 2020 target. The planned increase in our use of Better Cotton will also result in major water savings. Trial projects showed that farmers adopting the Better Cotton systems used 32% – 49% less water than before.
 hm.com/cotton
 bettercotton.orgrE du CE E N vi rON mEN Tal i mpa CT S iN C OTTON  
CulTiv
aTiON  b
y u SiNg m OrE SuSTaiNab
lE C
OTTON
Timescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 10
0% f
sC Cer
tified PaPer f
or all h&m PaPer b
aGs
We use paper bags under certain circumstances, for example for specific H&M campaigns, or due to legislation 
in some countries. While they only represent 5-10% of our total use of bags, we still want to make sure that they are produced with minimal impact on the environment. All paper bags used in H&M stores are now made of paper that originates from FSC certified forests.
 hm.com/carrierbagsmak E 100%  Of Our pap Er Car riEr ba gS 
f
rOm fSC C
ErTif
iEd pa
pEr
dress, or Gan iC Cot ton
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS73  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYat the beginning of 2012 which will also disclose 
restriction levels for all non-textile products, for example cosmetics.
 hm.com/chemicals
 hm.com/zerodischargeTimescale:  onGoi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: res
triCti
on le Vel
s made Pub
liC in
 2011
We restrict chemicals considered as hazardous through the H&M Chemical Restrictions list which all suppliers are 
contractually bound to comply with. Our Chemical Restrictions list has been updated 10 times since 1995, most recently in 2009. It now contains more than 200 restricted substances. Our restrictions are, as a minimum, always based on the highest legal standard in any of our sales countries. As stated in our Sustainability Policy, we apply the Precautionary Principle. This means that we act proactively to restrict chemicals, even if there is still scientific uncertainty about whether they are harmful, and often go well beyond legislative demands. To ensure this, we always keep ourselves up to date on the latest developments and consider information from authorities, NGOs and scientific reports. We made the restrictions list public many years ago. In 2011, we decided to increase our transparency further by disclosing all related restriction levels for textile products. We plan to publish an updated list C
ON
TiNuE C
ONST aNT ly T
O rEviEw a Nd up
daTE Our ChEmiCal r ES
TriCTiON
S
Timescale:  by 20 20
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Join
t roadma P deVe
loPed
 toGet
her with industry Pee
rs
Since 1995, H&M has been working practically 
to reduce the use and impact of hazardous chemicals. As a leading actor with a well 
reputed Chemicals Management approach, H&M has the scale and ability to go beyond ensuring that our own products are safe, to also encourage change within our entire industry – a huge challenge, but one that we take very seriously. That’s why we teamed up with adidas Group, C&A, Li Ning,  NIKE, Inc. and Puma to develop a joint roadmap.  In addition, we have initiated a set of complementary individual actions. This includes additional measures to ensure the compliance with our usage ban  on APEOs which we have had in place since 2009.  
We follow up on this target through a dedicated section on our website.
 hm.com/zerodischarge
 hm.com/chemicalshE lp T O  lEad Our i Ndu STry T O zErO 
d
iSCha
rgE Of ha
zard OuS ChEmiCalS
ar OUN d 
 30,000 
CH eMIC al te StS  
CO
NdUC te
d a NN
Ual
lyMO re t HaN  
 200 
SUbSt a NC eS  
re Str I
Cte
d
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS74  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYTimescale:  by 20 14
sTaTus
 snapsho T: dif
ferent alt
ernati Ves
 tested
Handling solvent-based chemicals can be 
harmful to workers, so we aim to phase out the use of any such substances in the 
production of our products wherever technically feasible. In co-operation with the chemical company Bayer, we conducted trials to convert traditional solvent-based polyurethane (PU) material into water-based PU. We tested a range of alternatives that could be used for different product types and styles. The first results were very promising, but ensuring quality and scalability remains a challenge. The next step is to launch products using water based PU and gradually scale-up our use.
 hm.com/chemicalsrE pla CE S OlvEN T-b aSEd pOly ur ETha NE ( pu ) wi Th wa TEr 
baSEd a
lTErNaTi
vE
Timescale:  2012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: fi
rst fluoro Carb
on-free outerwear in store
Fluorocarbons are commonly used for making outerwear water resistant. Unfortunately, they are extremely persistent and bio-accumulative. 
At H&M, we sell only a few water-resistant products. Nevertheless, we want to make sure that these are made without the use of these substances. For a long time, available alternatives showed major downsides – for example being elusive. But since 2010, we have found and used one alternative that has proved to deliver both, good quality and fewer risks for the environment. Starting with our children’s wear range, products using this alternative have been available in our stores since then. They are labelled with the “Bionic Finish Eco”-label. We are currently testing a second alternative in order to ensure reliable supply. Following this, we aim to fully ban fluorocarbons by 2012.
 hm.com/bionicfinishbaN flu OrOC ar bON S
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS75  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
Timescale:  onGoi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: aCtiVe i
nVolVem
ent in wat
er di
sCl
osure worki
nG Gr
ouP 
H&M joined the Water Disclosure Working 
Group (WDWG) in 2010. The group is part of the UN CEO Water Mandate. It 
works to drive the harmonisation of existing and emerging corporate water disclosure initiatives. The development of the first pilot guidelines is currently planned for the end of 2012.
 hm.com/water
 CEO Water MandateprOmOTE  ThE dEvElOpm EN T Of ha rm ON iSEd C Orp Ora TE 
w
aTEr a CC
OuNT iNg a Nd r EpOrTiNg S
TaNda
rd S
Timescale:  2011
sTaTus
 snapsho T: usaGe ba
n enfor Ced
Toluene is a solvent which is connected to a number of health risks for production workers. During 2010, H&M identified that 
toluene was being widely used in the production of accessories. A workshop with all relevant suppliers was held to educate them about the negative health impacts of toluene. In close co-operation with suppliers and chemical companies, we have identified suitable substitutes and enforced a global ban on toluene in our supply chain. We will continue to monitor the implementation through our chemical management testing routines.
 hm.com/chemicalsbaN T O l u EN E fr Om p rOd uCTiO N
h&m f or  w ater -Colle Cti on
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS76  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYTimescale:  2011
sTaTus snap
sho T: 300 m
illion litres sa Ved
The production of denim can be particularly 
water-intense. We found out that better processes can save about 30% of the water 
use so, to reduce this impact, in 2009, we set up a project with suppliers in Bangladesh, China and later also Pakistan. Having saved 50 million litres of water in 2010, we set the goal to save 100 million litres in 2011. As part of this, we looked into how these water-management improvements could also help our suppliers save water when making other water-intense products. We exceeded our target considerably, with usage reduced by 300 million litres compared to previous production processes in 2011 alone.
 hm.com/waterS av E 100,000,000  liTrES Of wa TEr iN 
prOdu CTiON  Of d EN im a Nd OT hEr 
wa TEr-i NTENS
E gar
mENTS
the graph shows the ratio of factories, using less than 100, between 100 – 
20
0, or more than 200 litres of water for making 1 kg of final clothes. data 
p
rovided is submitted by 305 of our supplier factories.
 hm.com/waterTimescale:  on Goin G
sTaTus snap
sho T: 7
0% of re Port
inG faCtorie
s use less than 100 litres Per kG of Garme
nts 
We monitor water efficiency at supplier factories. We focus on factories located in water scarce areas, as defined by the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development. We measure the use of water per kg of products made  and provide our suppliers with this data. While it can at times be a challenge to motivate suppliers to make savings in countries where water is free of charge (i.e. Bangladesh), we complement the monitoring  with dedicated projects to drive water savings in denim production and through our cleaner production programme.prOmOTE  rEdu CEd wa TEr CO
NSump TiON  iN ga
rm ENT  pr Odu CTiON
 6.0 SUPPLIER WATER EFFICIENCY 
2010-2011
72% 70%
20% 19%
11% 9%
<100 100-200 >200
2010
2011
Number of factories: 305 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS77  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLYSUPPLIER WASTE WATER QUALITY MEASURES
59.8%61.7%83.7%
58.5%73.4%90.6%
76.3%78.8%93.3%
67.9%78.6%95.7%
82.8%
77.8%96.6%
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Total Suspended Solids
Biological Oxygen Demand
Chemical Oxygen DemandTimescale:  2 012
sTaTus
 snapsho T: Gui
delines in Cl
udin G Ch
emi Cal
 restri Cti
ons de Vel
oPed
H&M has established a series of guidelines 
to promote more sustainable choices when purchasing non-commercial goods. These 
are products that we do not sell but use ourselves, for example to decorate our stores or for marketing material. Alongside specific guidelines for a broad range of materials, we also included detailed chemical restrictions. The aim is to protect the health & safety of our customers and employees in our stores and to promote the development of more environmentally conscious products in this sector. First suppliers have already signed the restrictions list as part of their contract with H&M and we will continue the implementation during 2012. We have started to follow up on this new requirement through a mix  of random chemical tests, audits, self-reporting and by requesting Material Data Safety Sheets (MSDS). We plan to evaluate our processes during 2012.dEvElOp a Nd im
plEmEN
T 
EN vi
rON mEN
Tal g
uid EliNE
S fOr ThE 
p
ur Cha SE Of N
ON -CO mm ErCia
l g OO dS
Timescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: imProVe
ments on b
od, s
tabile on C od, imProVe
ments needed on ts
s
Since 2006, we have required suppliers who have wet processes such as dyeing to avoid environmental damage by treating their waste 
water. Waste water quality in our supply chain has to meet quality levels defined by Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) or relevant local laws, depending on which are stricter. These requirements form part of our supplier audit programme. Water quality measures include organic and chemical pollution levels and suspended solids within the waste water – TSS (total suspended solids), BOD (biological oxygen demand) and COD (chemical oxygen demand). Graph 6.1 shows the ratio of supplier factories in the lowest threshold for each of these indicators, against the BSR standard. The more factories are in the lowest threshold, the better the performance. The data shows a slightly increased proportion of factories in the best threshold for BOD, and a slight decrease for COD, while we face a major decrease for TSS. We will continue to monitor the development with relevant suppliers and, wherever needed, request dedicated action plans to improve performance. 
 hm.com/watermON iTOr wa ST E w aTEr qu ali Ty a T Sup pli Er fa CT OriES
 6.1 
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS78  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATUR AL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
Timescale:  by 20 12
sTaTus
 snapsho T: a
ll Pal
m oil used ComPen
sated for
Palm oil is associated with environmental 
harms, such as deforestation, and with social issues, such as poor working conditions. 
H&M uses very little palm oil; just nine tonnes in 2011. This was mainly used to make candles that are sometimes offered in our HOME collection. Despite this low amount, we still want to contribute to a more sustainable palm oil production. That’s why we decided to purchase Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certificates for all candles sold in the collection from 2012. For the nine tonnes used in 2011, we purchased Green Palm certificates.
 Rspo.org
 Greenpalm.orgpur Cha SE rSpO C ErTif iCaTE S fOr a Ny pr Odu CT S C ONT aiNiNg pa lm Oil
0%
Of t He leat Her , 
SHel
lS Or w OO d  
w
e U
Se f Or O
Ur 
p
rOdUC tS May C
OM e 
f
rOM  eNda
Ngered 
SpeCIeS 
100% 
Of O U r  
CO
SM etIC pr OdUC tS  
MU
St b
e Mad
e w ItHO
Ut t He  
USe Of a NI
Mal t
eStINg
 Candle  mad e w ith  Cer tified  Palm  o il
Contents
79  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
Commitment
S  
STR ENGTHEN  
COMMUNITIES7
Contents
80  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
2.3m 
gar MeNtS  
dON at
ed t O  
CH ar Itab
le  
CaU
SeS
2.8m
peOple rea CH ed  
wItH pr
eve NtIve
 
Hea
ltH e
dUC atIO
N 
aNd Car
elaura maGGs
laura mag gS,  
pr maNagEr a Nd 
SuSTaiNabi
liTy 
rESpON
Si
blE, 
h&m u
k aNd 
irElaNd
“in recent years, sustainability 
h
as become an increasing part of 
my role. it ma
kes me very proud 
to be part of an organisation that 
takes its responsibility as seriously as 
h&m d
oes. i h
ave formed local 
relationships with our global community partners, 
u
niCef and
 
wat
eraid
, to instigate local co-
operations that are in keeping with our global community investment strategy. 
we al
so have additional 
local community investment partners: the 
bri
tish red C
ross, the 
woo
dland tru
st, and Climate wee
k. 
By taking a collaborative ‘glocal’ approach we can engage and inspire our customers and colleagues to take further steps together towards a more sustainable future.”H&M is a part of many communities 
around the world. This includes the places where our stores are located as well as 
communities along our supply chain.
The way we do business, our values and our 
growth have an impact on the development of these communities and more than one million jobs around the world. With our size, we have the opportunity to drive positive change for people and the environment in these communities. As a result, we have both an interest and a responsibility to strengthen these communities. That is why we invest in projects that benefit communities and at the same time address issues that are important to our business. 
We focus these community investments on water, 
the innovation of sustainable raw materials and the employment, education and health of women and youth. We also provide support to those in urgent need; for example through garment donations or financial donations in crisis situations.
In this section, we highlight some of the  
Conscious Actions that we are taking to live  up to this commitment.MO re t HaN 49 m
 
 
Sek I
Nve St
ed I
N  
SUppOrt I
Ng C
OMMUNI tIeS  
by H
&M a Nd O
Ur  
CU
StOM er SCommitment
S  
STR ENGTHEN  
COMMUNITIES7
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS81  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESunTi l:  onGoi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: se
k 15
,136,057 Gen
erated throu Gh s
ales of Cau
se-related Produ Cts
As part of our commitment to provide fashion 
for conscious customers, we offer our customers products with added sustainability 
value. One way we do this is to offer cause-related products and collections. This way we engage our customers in supporting H&M’s community projects and help raise awareness of the issues they address. In recent years, we have developed a set of reoccurring collections called ‘Fashion Against Aids’, ‘WaterAid’ and ‘All for Children’. At least 25% of the net sales of these collections are invested into the related projects. In 2011, we raised SEK 15,136,057 in this way. We also encourage our customers in several of our sales countries to contribute to other good causes with direct donations made in our stores, for example in the case of major catastrophes. In 2011, our customers donated SEK 11,491,276.
 hm.com/faa
 hm.com/wateraid
 hm.com/allforchildrenENgag E Our CuST OmErS iN Our C Omm uNiTy iNvES TmEN TS p rOJ ECTS
Timescale:  2017
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 5 ye
ar Pla
n de Vel
oPed
Bangladesh is an important purchasing market for H&M but also one of the world’s poorest nations. Clothing manufacturing employs 
several million people and accounts for a large proportion of the country’s exports. H&M is an important contributor to this and, as a long-term buyer, we want to make sure that we also contribute to lasting social and economic development. That is why in 2011 we developed an ambitious plan to support long-term development in Bangladesh. The aim is to strengthen workers’ influence over their conditions and increase their skill level while also promoting stability in the labour market. The plan includes dedicated projects to support improved social dialogue, promote fire safety in garment factories, facilitate skills development and provide better access to health care. As part of the plan, we also work to strengthen the position of women by providing grants for female students in higher education and by setting up a helpline for women exposed to violence and discrimination.
 hm.com/bangladeshplanfur ThEr C ONT ri bu TE T O a p OSiTivE 
dEvElOpm EN
T iN baNgl
ad E
Sh
	7.0	COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS RESULTING FROM 
SALES OF CAUSE-RELATED PRODUCTS AND DONATIONS RAISED AMONG CUSTOMERS
15,136,057
11,491,276
Cause-related
productsIn-storedonations
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS82  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESTimescale:  onGoi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: 2,
079 PeoPle w
ith im ProVed
 skills
The majority of our customers, our employees 
and also our suppliers’ employees are women. Strengthening their position in society and 
in the labour market is therefore important to us. At the same time, improving education among youth and creating job opportunities for young people is essential for the future growth and development of many of the communities we operate in. Beside our direct economic contribution, we invest in a number of projects to support employment and education among women and young people. Some are broad programmes, such as our All for Children project (in collaboration with UNICEF) and Hand in Hand’s Village Upliftment Programme (a project supported by the H&M Conscious Foundation). Others are tailor-made local projects, such as our Women in Retail project in Saudi Arabia, our own training centre in Bangladesh, and scholarships for women in Bangladesh. In 2011, 5,688 children enrolled into a bridge school or formal education through our All for Children project and another 2,079 people improved their skills through other projects.
 hm.com/communityprojectsiNvEST  iN mOrE Emp lOym EN T aNd Edu CaTiON  a mON g w OmEN  aNd y OuTh
“I want to give my children a good education. I want them to become teachers themselves when they grow up. The All  for Children project has improved the teaching methods in school and  the food quality. Today the children come home and teach their parents about the things they  have learned in school.”
deivam, mother of Sevvanthi, student  
a
t per
eri, g.T
.r., m
iddle school, ind
ia2,079 
peOple  
IMp
rOved
 tHeIr SkIllS  
tHrOU gH O
Ur C
OMMUNI ty
 
INve StMeNt pr OjeCtS
5,688
CHI ldre N eNrOlled   
IN fOrMal e
dUC atIO
N 
tHrOU gH O
Ur all f Or  
CHIld
re N pr OjeCt
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS83  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESTimescale: on Goi nG si nCe  2002 
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 
38,347 PeoPle ProVid
ed with a CCes
s to Cle
an drinkin G w
ater in 2011
Through H&M’s partnership with WaterAid 
and the H&M Conscious Foundation’s support for FRANK Water, we work to provide 
safe drinking water and sanitation for some of the world’s poorest communities in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan. Since the start of our Partnership with WaterAid in 2002, contributions made have helped an estimated 150,000 people to access safe drinking water and basic sanitation. Through FRANK Water’s eight projects in India, 101,550 people benefit from purified drinking water. In 2011, H&M invested SEK 6,074,000 in water-related projects.
 hm.com/communityprojectsiNvEST  iN SafE d riNkiNg wa TEr a Nd 
baSiC SaNiTaTiON  fOr S
OmE Of ThE 
wOrl
d’S pOO rES
T C
Omm
uNiTiES
our suppliers and the organisation, Smiling Sun, we provide access to affordable healthcare to garment workers and their families in Bangladesh. Through the H&M Conscious Foundation, we support Hand in Hand’s work to provide free medical care in India and have just entered a new partnership with an innovative social entrepreneur called Gynius that works to combat cervical cancer in Bangladesh. Together with Wateraid we are providing safe drinking water and sanitation in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan and provide hygiene education. Altogether, H&M invested SEK 22,626,708 into these projects in 2011 alone and, together with our partners, we reached more than 2.8 million people with preventative information and more than 8,000 people with actual healthcare.
 hm.com/communityprojectsWe support a variety of projects to promote better health around the world. Since 2008, H&M has supported the fight 
against HIV/AIDS through our annual Fashion Against Aids campaign. The aim of the project is both to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS among young people in our sales countries and to generate money for prevention and health projects around the world. In India and Bangladesh, two of the countries where many of our suppliers are located, our projects focus on health and nutrition. Both are among the countries with the highest rates of undernourished children in the world according to the 
World Bank . Our All for 
Children project works to promote children’s right to health and nutrition. In cooperation with three of Timescale:  on Goi nG
snapsh
oT: more th
an 2.8 million PeoPle re
aCh
ed with PreVen
tiVe t
rainin G an
d 
information or health CareiNvEST  iN bETT Er h EalTh fOr wOmEN  aNd y OuTh ar OuNd ThE wOrl d
“The social impacts resulting from H& m’s  investment will improve the lives and futures of the children and the communities in which they live.”
Tim hunter, dep uty dir ector fun draising, uNiCEf“H& m’s support has helped over 150,000 people gain access to clean water, improved sanitation and hygiene.”
Jan Eliasson, Chairman of the boa rd,  
wate
raid Sweden
Contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS84  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESTimescale:  on Goi nG
s
TaTus
 snapsho T: P
artnershi P wi
th Center for Child riGht C
orPor
ate so Cia
l re
sPon
sibility
Workers between the ages of 16 and 18 are 
protected from doing hazardous work or overtime, for example, by Chinese law. 
In reality, however, requirements like these are not always respected in the Chinese garment industry. To improve the situation for young workers, the H&M Conscious Foundation has cooperated with the Center for Child Right Corporate Social Responsibility since 2009 to provide personal development training sessions for young workers. These focus on communication skills and career and life planning to boost their social development. The scheme also helps to develop awareness among supplier factory managers about specific issues facing the young workforce to help create a more efficient, stable and healthy work environment. 
 hm.com/consciousfoundationSTrENgThEN  yOuNg w Ork ErS’ (16+ ) 
righ TS iN ThE wOrk
pla CE iN C
hiNa
Timescale:  2012 and beyond
sTaTus
 snapsho T: 12
0,000 farmers trained on better farmin G teChni
ques
H&M is a leading member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) as part of our efforts to use only sustainable cotton by 2020. Besides the 
environmental benefits of this shift, sustainable cotton production can improve the lives of millions of farmers in developing countries. BCI helps to provide farmers with the know-how and tools to improve farming practices. This helps them to produce more with less input, which reduces their impacts on the environment and increases profitability and the welfare of the local communities. Over 120,000 farmers (approximately 66,000 in India, 47,500 in Pakistan, over 10,000 in Mali and 104 in Brazil) have been involved in the initiative so far, all receiving dedicated training.
H&M invested EUR 600,000 in 2011. A further 
EUR 700,000 each is committed for 2012 and 2013. This helps us to increase the production of Better Cotton in line with our demands for the 2012 and 2013 production seasons.
 hm.com/cotton
 bettercotton.orgiNvEST  iN bETT Er li vEli hOO d iN C OTTON  CulTiv aTiNg ar EaS b y Edu CaTiNg 
fa
rm ErS O
N mOrE SuSTaiNab
lE f
armi Ng T
EChNiq
uES Thr Oug
h ThE b
ETTE r 
COT
TON  i
NiTi
aTi
vE
MONEY INVESTED IN BCI FARMER
TRAINING 2010–2012 (IN EUR)
600,000700,000
(planned)700,000
(planned)
2011 2012 2013
NUMBER OF FARMERS TRAINED 
120,000
66,000
10410,00047,500
Total Pakistan Mali India Brazil	7.1	
	7.2	
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS85  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIESIn response to the devastating hunger catastrophe 
in East Africa, H&M has donated USD 100,000 (SEK 637,020) to support UNICEF’s relief 
efforts. H&M has collaborated with UNICEF since 2004 and has contributed to the organisation’s emergency relief work several times. In addition, H&M also donated around USD 230,000 (SEK 1,916,397) to support the Red Cross’s relief work for victims of 2011’s catastrophes in Japan. We also provided 208,123 garments.
In addition, we enable our customers to support 
people in need by initiating fundraising activities in-store. In 2011, our customers contributed with another USD 225,000 (SEK 1,732,894) to the victims in East Africa and USD 21,000 (SEK 149,000) to Red Cross work in Japan. Supp
OrT EmErgEN
Cy r EliEf iN E
aST afr
iCa a Nd Ja
paN
Timescale: onGoi nG si nCe  1997
sTaTus
 snapsho T: lon G te
rm Par
tnershi P wi
th men
tor
H&M cooperates with Mentor Sweden in 
their health promotion and drug prevention work among children and young people 
in Sweden. The target groups are young people between the ages of 13 and 17, parents with children 6-18 years, and schools. Mentor Sweden manages three key programmes: ‘Mentoring’, ‘Parenting’ and ‘Inspiration’ activities that create study motivation. The Mentoring programme offers students that are younger teens the opportunity to have a mentor for a year. H&M encourages employees in Sweden to become mentors.
 Mentor.seSupp OrT p rEvEN TiON  Of dr ug abu SE 
a
mON g y OuTh iN S
wEdEN
“I find it is a wonderful idea that H& m works in collaboration with the Japan red C
ross to support the lives of communities in need.”
Nodoka, Sales adv isor,  
h&m s
tore in Shibuya, Tokyo
USD  230,000
dON ated t O  
SUppOrt
 vICtIM
S  
Of t He d ISaSt
er  
IN ja
paNUSD  225,000 
r a ISed a MO Ng O Ur  
CU
StOM er S tO S
UppOrt
  
vICtIM
S Of t He H
UN g
er  
Cat
aSt
rOpHe I
N  
ea St a
fr ICa
Co
ntents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS86  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011
COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
Timescale:  onGoi nG 
snapsh
oT: 2.
3 million Garm
ents donated to Ch
aritable Cau
ses
Each year, H&M donates large quantities of 
clothes to aid organisations in countries in which we operate. We introduced an updated 
garment donation policy and implementation guidance in 2010. Our policy states that all unsold, safe-to-use products should be donated to charity or, if possible, recycled into something useful. In 2011, we donated 2,509,001 (2010: 631,295) such garments globally. 2,333,040 went to charity organisations, including 208,123 garments that we provided to the Red Cross in the exceptional case of 2011’s catastrophes in Japan. In addition, 175,961 garments were donated to be recycled.
 hm.com/communities
 hm.com/recyclingSupp OrT ThE O NES  iN N EEd wi Th ga rm EN T dO NaTiON S
GARMENT DONATIONS 2011
2,330,040
175,961
Non-sold 
garments donated to charitiesGarmentsdonated forrecycling
PiCture  CaPti on t o Go h ere	7.3	
1,154 
yOUN g pe Ople   
re CeIved
 vOC atIO
Nal
 
tr a IN
INg S
INC e t He  
St
art Of t He H&
M 
tr a IN
INg CeNtr
e  
IN 
1999we d ON ated 2.3m
 
gar MeNtS 
 
tO C
Har Itab
le  
CaUSeS 
C
ontents
We would like to have your feedback. 
Please send your questions or comments regarding 
this Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 to:
Hendrik Alpen at:
hendrik.alpen (at) hm.com
Thank you for taking time to learn more about 
H&M Conscious.CON
TaCT
To find out more about H&M Conscious, our 
policies, read case studies and previous reports,  view videos, find the latest news and much more, please visit:
 hm.com/conscious
Follow us in social media:
twitter.com/hm
facebook.com/hmplus.google.comyoutube.com/hm
Produced in the UK by Salterbaxter.mOrE iNfOr ma TiO N
87  H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents
