CONSCIOUS
ACTIONS  
Sustainability 
Report 20122 of 93
table of contents
CONSCIOUS ACTIONS
Sustainability Report 2012
Introduct Ion
The CEO Interview 3
About H&M Conscious 6
Key Highlights from 2012 8
The Challenges Along Our Value Chain 11
Engaging with Our Stakeholders and  
Joining Forces for Solutions 14
How We Organise Ourselves 15
commI tments
Provide Fashion for Conscious Customers 16
Choose and Reward Responsible Partners 27
Be Ethical 47
Be Climate Smart 57
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 65
Use Natural Resources Responsibly 70
Strengthen Communities 81
Informat Ion
How We Report 90
Auditor’s Review Report 91
Get in Touch 93
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20123 of 93
The CEO interviewIntroduct Ion
How do you view the concept of 
fashion in regards to sustainability?  
Fashion is and remains a form of self-expression. I’m proud to know that we play a part in that. We want to help people create their personal style and love what they buy for sev -
eral seasons. And we want to make it easy for them to choose more sustainable fashion and to take care of their clothes in a conscious way.
How does sustainability fit with 
H&M’s business model and contin -
ued growth?  
Our business idea is to offer fashion and quality at the best price. Sus -
tainability is an increasingly impor -
tant part of this. I strongly believe that sustainability will more and more become a hygiene factor in our industry. Our goal is for H&M to be at the forefront of sustainability. We work hard to always strengthen our customer offering. I think that adding sustainable value to our prod -
ucts is one of the keys to do so.
What opportunities do you see 
in integrating sustainability into the business model?
Adding sustainability value 
to our products is one of  
the keys to strengthen our 
customer offering.”
Karl-Johan Persson, CEO
2012 was another success -
ful and exciting year for 
H&M. But how do continued 
strong growth and sustain -
ability go together? Read 
about this and more in an 
interview with our CEO Karl-Johan Persson.
We take a long-term view on our 
business. And there is no way for us not to think about and invest in our sustainability, because it simply makes business sense.
To begin with, using resources effi -
ciently often means reducing costs. 
But there’s much more to this than the obvious. 
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20124 of 93
Introduct Ion
The CEO interview
I’m really happy to see that our 
customers and colleagues show such interest in sustainability. This opens great opportunities to strengthen our customer offering, build our brands and attract and retain the talent we need for our continued growth.
And contributing to economic 
growth, jobs and stability in our pur -
chasing markets and creating strong partnerships with the best suppliers helps to secure the supply we need in the years to come. More than that, our strong presence in these countries provides us with the great opportunity to improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and help develop entire communities.
What were the biggest steps on 
this journey in 2012?We were named the biggest user of organic cotton in the world for the second year in a row. 
We are the first fashion retailer in 
the world to launch a global system to collect old clothes and help them to a new life. In the long run, we want to upcycle these clothes into new ones, reducing the impact on the environment and providing us with access to future resources for making more sustainable fashion.
From 2013, together with WWF, 
we will set new standards for water stewardship in our industry. Again, this collaboration opens great opportunities to engage our custom -
ers on the important issue of water and to help secure the availability of clean water for all of us in the years to come.
What are the challenges?
There are many challenges in our industry and our business. I’m proud of all my dedicated colleagues who work with great passion every day to make H&M and our industry more sustainable. But in order to achieve great results, we need to focus and, together with our stakeholders, bal -
ance the right priorities. To name a few of these priorities, it’s about closing the loop on textile fibres and waste and playing our part in combating climate change and growing water scarcity. Ensuring that all workers in supplier factories earn enough to live on in a decent number of hours is another key challenge. It’s a complex issue and solutions need to consider the competitiveness and development of entire countries. Our whole industry has more to do to find and implement exactly such solutions. And the tragic, recent factory fires show again that safety can’t be taken serious enough. 
”There is no way for us not 
to think about and invest 
in our sustainability, 
because it simply makes business sense.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20125 of 93
Introduct Ion
The CEO interview
I also think that we have more to do  
to overcome common misconcep -
tions such as that only expensive products can be sustainable. In fact, the retail price of a garment doesn’t show how hard a brand has worked to improve conditions. Obviously, it is our job to engage more closely with our stakeholders and customers on this matter.
How do you work to tackle these 
challenges?In a variety of ways. As an integral part of our day-to-day work and our strategy. And of course in the close collaboration with our suppliers and other stakeholders.
But many of these challenges can’t be 
solved by one company alone. That’s why we play a very active role in ini -
tiatives like the Sustainable Apparel Coalition and the Global Compact. And we need to support authorities in making the right decisions. For example, I met with Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of Bangladesh, to express H&M’s support to raise the minimum wage for garment workers and for regular wage reviews. At H&M we believe in a fast pace and sometimes I feel that the changes we want to see do not hap -
pen as fast as we would like. But in order to create lasting improve -
ments, we need to promote systemic change that involves everyone con -
cerned. Our size gives us the oppor -
tunity to promote such change well beyond our own operations. 
We see a lot of innovative smaller 
sustainable fashion brands on the market. I think this is a great devel -
opment. At H&M, we can help lift such innovations to a larger scale. Together this will hopefully lead to a more sustainable fashion future. 
”
30 years from now, where do you see H&M and sustainability in the fashion industry in general?We take a long-term view on our business. My grandfather founded the company in 1947. I want to see H&M continue to be successful and create jobs and growth all over the world for many years to come. I want H&M to be seen as a leader in terms of innovation, sustainability and, of course, great fashion. I hope that 
in the future, upcycling old clothes will be a standard in our industry, that workers in supplier factories can negotiate wages and working conditions in a fair dialogue with their employers, that making clothes will have a minimal impacts on waters and that consumers all over the world can easily build their per -
sonal style with sustainable fashion. And that H&M has played its part on this journey.In order to create lasting 
improvements, we need to 
promote systemic change 
that involves everyone  concerned.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20126 of 93
Introduct Ion
About H&M CONSCIOUS
At H&M, we like to think 
of sustainability as a word 
of action, something we do 
rather than something we simply say. It is an ongoing 
process with a clear direction 
to be continuously improved. It is a journey that requires 
determination, passion and 
teamwork. Because together with our colleagues, stake -
holders, business partners and peers, real, lasting change is possible.
It’s about the 3 Ps. People, planet,  and 
profit . All highly interconnected. All 
equally important. The earth is facing 
scarcity issues on many fronts. Clean water, energy and cotton, to name a few. Our business is no exception. Our vision is that all our operations should be run in a way that is economically, socially and environmentally sustain-able. Turning this vision into a reality helps us do great business using fewer resources. It also allows us to con-tribute to better lives for people and communities around the world. But it goes beyond that. We want to make more sustainable choices in fashion available, affordable and attractive to as many people as possi -
ble. Together with our millions of cus -
tomers we can bring massive change – from improving the livelihood of a cotton farmer to how our customers care for the clothes they buy.
We want our colleagues to be proud of 
where they work. We want our custom -
ers to feel reassured about the fashion they buy and that we have exceeded their expectations. We can see there are clear opportunities to further strengthen our customer offering by adding sustainability value to our product lines. We want to take on the challenge of making fashion sustain-able and sustainability fashionable. 
We have made great achievements 
on this journey, but together with our entire industry we have much more to do. The biggest challenges today include climate change, impacts on water across the textile value chain as well as overtime and wages in supplier factories. Another major challenge is the growing resource scarcity, while 
The global need for 
energy  is estimated 
to increase by 45%   
by 2030 *
The need for fresh 
water  by 30% *
And for food  by 
50%*
* Source The report of the United Nations Secretary-
General’s High Level Panel on Global Sustainability.We want to take on  
the challenge of making  
fashion sustainable  
and sustainability  
fashionable.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20127 of 93
Introduct Ion
About H&M CONSCIOUS
Our seven c Ommitments
 
1. 
Provide fashion for conscious  
customers
2. 
  Choose and reward responsible 
partners
3. 
Be ethical
4. 
Be climate smart
5. 
Reduce, reuse, recycle
6. 
Use natural resources  
responsibly
7. 
Strengthen communitiestoo many textiles end up in landfills. 
We want to use our scale to bring 
about systemic change to our indus -
try and across our entire value chain. In doing so, we are at the forefront of sustainability.
That is why we have created H&M 
Conscious. With seven ambitious strategic commitments at its heart, this is the name for all the work we do for a more sustainable fashion future. Hundreds of what we call Conscious Actions – big and small, short and long term – work to put these commitments into practice.
This is our 11th sustainability report. 
While we remain humble before our challenges, we are very excited by the Conscious Actions we have taken and the progress we have made. This report outlines some of the Conscious Actions we have taken or worked towards during 2012.
This report has been prepared using 
the GRI G3.1 guidelines. Please find further details on how we report here (page 90).
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20128 of 93
Introduct Ion
Key  HIg HlIgHTS from 2012
Game-changing Water 
PartnershiP  with W WFDOn’t  let F ashiOn  
go to  Waste!
According to the organisation Textile Exchange, 
we are topping the charts in organic cotton use for the second year in a row. But wait, there’s more. Aside from further increasing our use of organic cotton in the future, we’re investing heav -
ily in Better Cotton and gradually increasing our use of recycled cotton. All together, we are right on track with our target to use only cotton coming from these sources by 2020 at the latest. For the past ten years, we have worked hard to reduce water impacts along our value chain. Now, together with WWF, we are taking this to a whole new level. In a three-year partnership, we will work towards implementing a holistic water stew -
ardship strategy that aims to be a game-changer for our industry and beyond. Starting with the decisions our designers make at the drawing table all the way through to promoting better water management amongst public policy-makers.No.1 in O rganic c Ott On  
– The story continuesToo much fashion ends up in landfills. We love fashion and thought: Does this really have to be the end of the story? We think not. That’s why we are now the first fashion company in the world that offers its customers around the globe the opportunity to hand in clothes, from any brand, that they no longer want. In return, they receive a small reward as thanks. We will then help to reuse and recycle all of them, ultimately aiming to close the textile loop. 
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 20129 of 93
Introduct Ion
Key  HIg HlIgHTS from 2012
trans Parency  to  
the next l evel
Together with IF Metal, one of Sweden’s largest 
unions, we are starting up a unique project to strengthen the dialogue between employees and employers in the Cambodian textile industry. Today’s relations are often confrontational. The aim is to help both trade unions and employers, to find lasting solutions in fair collective bargain-ing processes that benefit the workers and create a stable market.For many years we have worked hard to build strong, long-term relations with our suppliers based on trust and transparency. We invested time, money and a lot of heart. Now, we’re taking this work to the next level and have just published our supplier factory list. Why? Because we think that transparency brings positive change. And because we want to incentivise our suppliers to take ownership over their sustainability and rec -
ognise the progress they are making. 
JOining  forces for fair
dialogue in c ambODia
Did you know that 36 percent of the climate impact in a garment’s life happens when being washed or tumble dried in our homes? Well, if not, you’re certainly not alone. To make it easier for all of us to care for our clothes in a conscious way, we collaborated with Ginetex, the owner of the current global care label standard to develop the new so-called clevercare label. Our first gar -
ments will carry this label in Summer 2013. Clever care  
labels are a go
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201210 of 93
Introduct Ion
Key  HIg HlIgHTS from 2012
We extended our All for Children collaboration 
with UNICEF to now include Bangladesh. With one of the largest garment industries in the world, the country is experiencing strong economic growth. That said, half of the 60 million children still live below the international poverty line. The project will run for five years to support about one million people in and around the capital Dhaka. With almost USD 8 million, this also marks our biggest single community investment to date.All for Children  
goes banglaDesh
We believe that everyone in the fashion industry should earn a fair wage that is enough to live on. In 2012, our CEO Karl-Johan Persson met the Bangladeshi Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina, to underline H&M’s support for higher minimum wages and regular wage reviews. It’s a complex challenge, but we keep working hard together with our suppliers, their workers, industry peers and governments and by setting up model facto -
ries to achieve the needed systemic change.For Fair wages
Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) are commonly used to make products water repellent. As practi -
cal as they are, once released into the environ-ment they remain for a long time and can harm the reproduction of organisms. For many years, we have worked hard to find better alternatives which meet our quality requirements. In 2010, we launched our first products made with a PFC-free alternative. And we’ve continued the work to scale this up. Now, we are one of the first brands that has banned PFCs from all its products.No to P Fcs
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201211 of 93
Introduct Ion
The CHA lle Nge S along our  vAl Ue CHAIN  
H&M Conscious aims to 
tackle the challenges across 
our entire value chain and, 
in doing so, creates new opportunities for long-term 
business success.
For those challenges most closely 
related to our core operations, we have the ability to directly influence the impact we make. For others, our influence is indirect; for exam -
ple, we can make a difference by choosing conscious raw materials or responsible business partners, or   
by collaborating with our stakehold -
ers to tackle the challenges that we share with our industry and with the communities in which we operate. Sustainability starts with the very first design idea. Our challenge is to create affordable fashion that our customers love from season to season and that is easy to care for in a conscious way. It’s about the materials we choose and using these as efficiently as possible, while considering impacts on people, costs and the environment right from the start.Working conditions, intense water and chemical use are concerns asso -
ciated with processing raw materials (e.g. cotton). We do not purchase raw materials directly, but by making conscious choices we can signifi -
cantly reduce impacts. We need to use raw materials as efficiently as possible and work towards closing the loop. Our active involvement with the BCI, Textile Exchange or UNICEF increases our influence.Fabric processing also raises con-cerns regarding water, chemicals and working conditions as well as carbon emissions. Usually, we do not have direct business relation-ships with mills but we work with a dedicated mill development pro -
gram and with important stakeholders such as Solidaridad and NRDC. We also work to increase the traceabil -
ity of fabric used for our clothes to increase our influence.
influence  High influence  Low influence  Low impact  High impact  High impact  HighDesign raw materials fabric processing
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201212 of 93
Introduct Ion
The CHA lle Nge S along our  vAl Ue CHAIN  
Ensuring high social and environ-
mental standards with our 785 sup -
pliers can be a challenge especially in terms of complex industry-wide issues such as wages, overtime and safety. We not only monitor factory compliance but also provide training for our suppliers and their workers, promote social dialogue and collaborate with others such as Better Work, the Fair Labor Associa -
tion and the Fair Wage Network.Transport represents approximately 3 percent of the carbon emissions in a garment’s lifecycle. However, by choosing the right modes of transport we can reduce this impact further. And, as a customer, we also use our influence to promote envi -
ronmental consciousness amongst our transport providers.Our more than 2,800 stores in 48 countries across 4 continents (incl. franchises) are where most of our colleagues work. This is also where about 90 percent of our direct energy use occurs. Our chal -
lenge is to ensure that we live our corporate values and that we work in a resource-efficient way wher -
ever we operate, including energy efficiency and increasingly sourcing renewable energy.The way our customers take care of our products has a major envi -
ronmental impact. From a life cycle perspective, about 36 percent of all carbon emissions occur when consumers wash and tumble dry their clothes. We are working to inspire our customers towards conscious garment care and reward them for bringing old clothes to H&M stores. We will then help to reuse and recycle all of them.
influence  Medium influence  Medium influence  High influence  Medium impact  High impact  Low impact  Medium impact  Highmanufacturing transport sales use
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201213 of 93
Introduct Ion
Challenges in the life of a T-shirt… …and ways to tackle them
10%  of all pesticides in the world are  
used in cotton production .
Conventional cotton used in a T-shirt needs as   
many as 15 bathtubs  of water to grow.
4 m2 of agricultural land has been used. The space 
required to produce 100 T -shirts  is enough to 
grow 700 kg of potatoes .
36%  of its climate impact occurs when it is 
washed  and tumble-dried  at home.
5%  of all waste in US landfills  is textiles. 
Enough to fill 32,750  Boeing 747s .Choosing organic cotton   
means zero pesticides .
H&M’s current organic and Better Cotton usage  
means over 140,000 kg  fewer pesticides  
used in 2012 alone.
Better Cotton requires 20% less water .
Switching from 60 to 40 degrees  when washing 
saves 41%  of the energy used. With an average of 
3 wash loads per week, German households could save  
more than 440 million euros  each year.
95%  of all textiles can be recycled .
figure S are eS timation S ba Sed on following S ource S panna.org; epa.gov; landtechnik.uni-bonn.de. The impact reduction figures from Better Cotton are based on results from BCI projects in India (water & pesticides), Pakistan and Mali (pesticides).The CHA lle Nge S along our  vAl Ue CHAIN  
Recycled materials  do not 
need to be grown on any agricultural land.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201214 of 93
eNg AgINg with our STA k e HO lder S 
and joining forces for SO lUTIONS
9,815 interviews  
with garment workers
423 responses  to anonymous 
supplier satisfaction survey
86% of colleagues  
filled in employee surveyNo one understands the situ -
ation of a garment worker 
better than the garment 
worker. Or the experiences 
of a sales advisor than some -
one actually working on the 
store floor. This is why the 
constant and open dialogue 
with our stakeholders is so 
important to us.  
Close collaboration with our stake -
holders, both internal and external, 
is essential in enabling us to tackle 
the challenges we face throughout 
our value chain. Diversity and a mul -
titude of voices lead to innovation 
and the insight into our stakeholders’ 
knowledge and viewpoints helps us 
prioritise the Conscious Actions we 
take and the resources we invest. 
Throughout the year, we work to 
maintain regular dialogue with each 
major group*. We do this on day-to-
day basis, through regular formal 
stakeholder roundtables on a global 
and local level, dedicated surveys, 
media analyses, our active partici -pation in several multi-stakeholder 
initiatives and as part of our strate -
gic business intelligence. 
Joined force S
But more than that, we seek to join 
forces with our stakeholders in order 
to tackle some of the major chal -
lenges in our industry. Challenges 
that affect everyone along our value 
chain and that no company can 
solve on its own. 
In order to find and implement the 
required solutions, we need to team 
up with our peers, suppliers, NGOs 
and many more players. We see shar -
ing best practice and developing ways 
to jointly tackle common challenges 
as key to taking our sustainability 
work further and making the whole 
industry more sustainable. 
Collaborating with others can help to 
increase the level of influence we have 
and set new standards – voluntary or 
legislative, well beyond our sphere of 
direct influence.
 
To this end, we are involved in 
a number of local and global indus -try collaborations, partnerships and 
multi-stakeholder initiatives, such 
as the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), 
Fair Labor Association (FLA), Fair 
Wage Network (FWN), Better Work 
and the Roadmap to Zero Discharge 
of Hazardous Chemicals.
 
> hm.com/memberships
> hm.com/stakeholderdialogue
*Including customers, colleagues, communities, 
suppliers and their employees, industry peers, 
NGOs, IGOs, policy-makers and investors.Introduct Ion
Acknowledgements
Knowledge bears weight, but achievement bears lustre as the say -
ing goes and here are some of the indeces, rankings and awards that assessed and recognised our sustain-ability performance during the year.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
FTSE4GoodGlobal 100 ListWorld ’s Most Ethical Companies
Newsweek Green RankingSource Award FinalistTextile Exchange Future ShaperRank a Brand
> hm.com/whatotherssay13
million fans 
on Facebook
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201215 of 93How we O rg ANIS e ourselves
Our sustainability ambitions 
are born from our corporate 
values and our drive for 
constant improvement. This is demanded and monitored 
throughout our business. 
Sustainability is an integral element 
of our business strategy. Our Head of Sustainability reports directly to our CEO and the responsibility for the implementation of our sustainabil -
ity strategy is held by our executive management team.
We have a total of around 170 col -
leagues who work with sustainability 
as a core task. Our over 20 people strong, head office Sustainability team is responsible for developing global tar -
gets, reviewing progress, encouraging and advising all relevant departments on the development and implementa -
tion of material Conscious Actions.
With this support, all our depart -
ments are then individually respon -
sible for developing and carrying out 
the Conscious Actions necessary to fulfil our seven commitments.Introduct Ion
Our CEO, CFO and Head of Sustain-ability review the progress made twice a year. Just as frequently as our Head of Sustainability reports per -
formance against key sustainability indicators to our Board of Directors.
Major sustainability issues influenc -
ing more than one department or 
conflicting interests are discussed in a decision-making forum called the Green Room with the involve -
ment of our CEO.
About 100 people from our sustain-
ability team operate from our 15 pro -
duction offices around the world. They work directly with our suppliers to support them in complying with our Code of Conduct and help to make our supply chain more sustainable.
Around 50 so-called Conscious 
Coordinators work in our different departments and country offices supporting the implementation of our global sustainability strategy in their organisations.organi Sation chart
BOARD  OF 
DIRECTORS
CENTRAL  SUSTAINABILIT y 
DEPARTMENTCONSCIOUS   
COORDINATORSOTHER  SENIOR
ExECUTI vE FUNCTIONSHEAD  OF  
SUSTAINABILIT yCEOBi-annual 
performance 
reporting
Around 170 people work with 
sustainability as a core task.”Our Head of  
Sustainability  reports  
directly  to our CEO
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201216 of 93
Commitment one
Provide fashion  
for conscious customers our business concept is to 
offer fashion and quality at the best price. To us, quality 
is so much more than the fabric you can touch between your fingertips. Quality includes that our products should be designed, produced, trans -
ported and sold with care for people and the environment.
It’s about every facet along our 
entire value chain. And of course about listening to our customers. Because it’s all about the fashion they love and what inspires them. More sustainable fashion is an added value to our offering that our cus -
tomers are increasingly looking for.
Our Conscious Collections show 
that choosing more sustainable fashion does not mean compromis -
ing on design or price. Our perma -
nent Conscious range applies these innovations on a larger scale and makes a better choice easily acces -
sible all year long. Together we can contribute to a more sustainable fashion future.
Conscious fashion, however, is not 
just about our customers’ choices. We keep working hard to make all our products more sustainable, piece by piece. Because, quite simply, it’s the right thing to do.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201217 of 93
commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT ONE
Provide fashion for conscious customersSTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
1.1 Use only more sustainable cotton*
1.2 Support innovation in sustainable fibres
1.3 Promote more sustainable leather
1.4 Make 7 million pairs of shoes using water based adhesives
1.5 Inspire our customers to join our Conscious Actions
1.6 Introduce conscious wash and care instructions
1.7 Help set industry standard for measuring product sustainability
1.8 Collaborate with French government in pilot on product lifecycle assessment
1.9 Provide best possible sustainability training for buyers and designers
1.10 Increase the knowledge amongst our sales advisors about our sustainability work
1.11 Translate new sustainability website into multiple languages– We used more certified organic 
cotton than any other company in the world, for the second year in a row.
– 11.4% of the cotton we used came 
from more sustainable sources, including 7.8% organic cotton and 3.6% Better Cotton. By 2020 at the latest, we want to reach 100%. 
– We launched a collection of even-
ing dresses made of conscious mate -
rials worn by celebrities around the world, clearly showing that afford -
able more sustainable fashion is ready for the red carpet.
– Our support for innovation in 
sustainable materials continues. For example, we used as much recycled 
27%  of our leather shoes   
were made from leather certified  by  
the Leather Working Group (LWG)2,200 hours  
of training on 
sustainability   
for our designers and buyersprogreSS  reportPerformance overview
7.4 million  
pairs of shoes made 
using  water-based  
adhesives375,000 visitors to 
our sustainability  
websitepolyester as is equivalent to 7.9 mil -
lion plastic bottles.
– To make it easier for consumers to 
care for their clothes in a conscious way, we collaborated with Ginetex, the owner of the current global care label standard to develop a new clev -
ercare label. 
– We became a member of the board 
of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC).
* Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN1 (cotton) here (page 91-92).
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201218 of 93
nielS oS kam,  
founder, r ank a b rand
Through the use of clear and trans -
parent labelling, H&M is enabling 
the rapidly-increasing number of conscious consumers to make more sustainable shopping choices. H&M labelling indicates, for example, when clothing is made of preferred materials such as organic cotton. 
The annual Sustainability Report 
published by H&M gives good insight into the company’s policies and performance around: reducing carbon emissions, environmen -
tal impact and improving labour conditions in the countries which produce their goods. This allows consumer organisations like Rank a Brand to use the information and provide consumers with clear facts, empowering them to make sustain-able shopping decisions. 
Rank a Brand encourages H&M to 
expand its investments in sustain-ability projects such as the Better Provide fashion for conscious customers
Stakeholder Voice
Cotton Initiative and the Roadmap towards Zero Discharge of Hazard -
ous Chemicals. In addition, we would love to see H&M shift their targets from reducing carbon emissions rela -
tive to sales to reducing their abso -
lute annual carbon emissions. As the turnover of H&M grows year after year, planet earth does not. 
All together there is a long way to go, 
to make fashion garments in a way that is fair and sustainable, but that is what consumers expect from com -
panies, and it’s totally worth it!
H&M is enabling the 
rapidly-growing number 
of conscious consumers 
to make more sustainable shopping choices.
Niels Oskam, Founder, Rank a Brand”commI tment one
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201219 of 93
commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
Cotton is the material we use most. 
It is a natural, renewable material with many advantages, but it also raises a number of concerns. For example, conventionally-grown cotton can have a heavy impacts on the environment such as intense use of water and pesticides. Organic cotton, Better Cotton and recycled cotton reduce this impact signifi -
cantly. That’s why, by 2020 at the latest, we aim for all our cotton to come from such more sustainable sources. Doing so also helps farm -
ers and their communities improve their standard of living. 
Looking at our 2012 figures, we 
are on track on this journey. We maintained our position as the larg -
est user of certified organic cotton for the second consecutive year according to Textile Exchange’s  latest Organic Cotton Market Report 2011. Since then we have continued to increase the volume of organic cotton we use by more than 20 percent and it now represents 7.8 percent of our total cotton use. 
We also took big steps into Better 
Cotton, which now makes 3.6 per -
cent of our cotton use. This means significant reductions in water and chemical use and better liveli -
hood for hundreds of thousands of cotton farmers who are trained in better farming techniques through the Better Cotton Initiative’s (BCI) implementation partners Solidari -
dad and WWF.
Recycled cotton is still a niche 
product today, but we believe that in line with our ambition to close the textile loop, more recycled cot -
ton will be available in the future.conSciou S action 1.1   
Use only more sustainable cotton
% of more S uStainable cotton  
on our total cotton u Se
2011 201211.4%
7.6%
organic
cotton
7.8% organic
cotton
7.6% better
cotton
3.6% h&m’S rank a S uSer of organic
cotton 2008–2011
2008 2009 2010 2011541 1
what i S more
SuStainable cotton?
conventional c otton  no  no  no  no  no  yes 
better c otton  yes  no  yes  yes  no  yes 
organic c otton   no  yes  yes  no  yes  no 
recycled c otton  yes  yes  yes  no  no  no reduced water uSe
no chemical fertiliSer 
or peSticide uSe 
Significantly reduced chemical 
fertiliSerS or peSticideS uSe
Social criteria appliedban on gmo cotton large-Scale availabilityStarted more to do on track
time S cale 2020
Statu S 11.4% more sustainable cotton
Latest available data according to Textile Exchange’s 
Organic Cotton Market Report 2011, published in 
Autumn 2012.
“H&M’s world-leading use of organic cotton contin -
ues to drive demand. This supports cotton farmers, 
encourages innovation and with its fashion forward Conscious Collections, H&M lifts more sustainable fashion to scale. ” 
LaRhea Pepper, Managing Director, Textile ExchangeAs requested by many of our stakeholders and for  
comparability reasons we report our use of more 
sustainable cotton in percentages and not by weight. 
Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN1 (cotton) here (page 91-92).
We consider certified organic cotton, Better Cotton and recycled cotton as more sustainable cotton.0.6% of the 
global cotton 
production i S 
eStimated to  
be organic
Estimation above based 
on Textile 
Exchange and ICAC data.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201220 of 93
What are the benefits of Better 
Cotton?Better Cotton is a holistic and innovative approach to change the cotton sector. It strives for continuous improvement on eco -
nomic, social and environmental issues that have a very negative footprint if cotton is cultivated conventionally. Its scope is global, aiming for a mainstream solution. The Better Cotton Initiative is set up in a multi-stakeholder setting, and backed by major brands and retailers, farmer organisations, traders and manufacturers and civil society organisations. The interesting aspect of Better Cotton is that brands and retailers aren’t simply complying with a standard; they are also investing in train-ing farmers to help them cultivate more sustainable cotton.
Why do you support Better Cotton 
in addition to organic cotton?Janet m enSink, i nternational program coordinator  
SuStainable f aShion, Solidaridad n etwork
Both standards have proven to impact the lives of cotton farmers and their environment. Solidaridad is working with the two systems in the field, meaning that we train and support farmers to convert to smarter and more sustainable agriculture. More cotton with fewer resources. We have first-hand expe -
rience that both better and organic cotton lead to measurable improve -
ments at the farmer level, including less pesticide use, increased income and better conditions for labourers.
What difference does it make for 
people and the environment if a company like H&M switches from conventional cotton to more sus -
tainable cotton?Converting to a more sustain-able economy is only possible when the private sector is driving this change. H&M can be a game changer! That H&M switches to more sustainable cotton, such as commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
organic and Better Cotton can lit -
erally change the lives of hundreds of thousands of farmers and the communities they live in.
That H&M switches to more 
sustainable cotton can 
change the lives of hundreds 
of thousands of farmers.
Janet Mensink, Solidaridad Network”
No. 1  user 
of organic  
cotton  in  
the world
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201221 of 93Alongside our target to use only 
more sustainable cotton, H&M is an important user of many innovative fabrics like Tencel®, recycled wool, recycled cotton, organic linen and organic hemp.
By driving demand, we want to 
strengthen the market for these materials and encourage further innovation. This is a key to tackling some of the challenges in our industry and offers business opportunities – like turning PET-bottles into exclusive red carpet dresses. This reduces both the need for virgin resources as well as consumer waste. We used as much recycled polyester as is equivalent to 7.9 million PET bottles in 2012.  
We use the fibre benchmark created 
by the organisation MADE-B y commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
H&M plays a leadership 
role by showing other 
brands in the same space 
that it is possible to create fashion collections that 
are more environmentally 
responsible.
Allanna McAspurn, CEO, MADE-B yto inform our material choices. 
Besides promoting the best options, we are working to gradually phase out those materials classified as least sustainable (class D). We also support Mistra and their ‘Future Fashion’ project, which promotes systemic change in the fashion industry. It produces detailed research on textile recycling and amongst other things, on how to speed up the market introduction of material innovations.
> hm.com/consciousmaterials
”conSciou S action  1.2  
Support innovation in sustainable fibres
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S we used 1,450 tonnes of recycled wool
Leather products can require intense chemical treatment using substances that can harm the environment. While we restrict hazardous chemicals through our Chemical Restriction List, we do not source any leather directly and have therefore less direct influence over this stage of our value chain. This is why in 2009 we joined the Leather Working Group (LWG) to promote sustainable business practices in this sector. Tanneries must comply with high environmental standards before being certified by the Group. 
We work to ensure that as much 
of the leather used to make our products as possible comes from LWG-certified tanneries. In 2012, 27 percent of the leather shoes in our stores were made of such leather. Most of the leather used, however, conSciou S action 1.3   
Promote more sustainable leather
came from Portugal which has not been prioritised for certification due to high EU standards. China is another important sourcing market for leather with greater environmental challenges. As a consequently, 63 percent of Chinese leather used came from LWG-certified tanneries.
H&M only accepts products made 
of leather from animals that have been bred for meat production. No vulnerable or endangered species may be used. We do not sell exotic animal skins and do not allow cow leather originating from India due to poor transport conditions.
> leatherworkinggroup.com
27% 
of our leather  
shoes  were made from  
LWG-certified  
leatherStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 27% of leather shoes made with certi -
fied leather
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201222 of 93commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
Solvent-based adhesives are often 
used in shoe and bag production, but they can be harmful to workers in factories if not handled with suffi -
cient protection. In 2009, we started working with chemical manufactur -
ers, adhesive producers and acces -
sory, bag and shoe suppliers to iden-tify possible water-based alternatives. Trials showed that the content of volatile organic compounds ( vOCs) 
could be reduced by 65 percent with-out compromising quality. 
In 2010, 450,000 pairs were pro -
duced this way. By the end of 2011, 
we had increased these numbers by more than 400 percent to more than 2.4 million pairs. Since then, 100 percent of our bags are also pro -
duced using water-based adhesives.
For 2012, our goal was to produce conSciou S action 1.4  
Make 7 million pairs of shoes using water-based adhesives
7 million pairs. We exceeded that 
goal as well and produced 7.4 million pieces. We aim to further increase this figure in the future.
450,0002.4 millionno. of S hoe S produced u Sing
water-ba Sed adhe Sive S
2010 2011 20127.4 million
(target 7 million)
Using water-
based adhe -
sives is better 
for the health of 
those who make 
the products.time S cale 2012
Statu S we achieved 7.4 million piecesachieved Started more to do
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201223 of 93
commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
conSciou S action 1.5   
Inspire our customers to join our Conscious Actions
While we need to keep working hard 
to make fashion more sustainable, we know that our customers play an important role, too. That’s why we want to inspire them to join our Conscious Actions. To achieve this, we want to make conscious choices easy, available, affordable and attractive to as many people as pos -
sible. But more sustainable product choices alone are not enough.
We involve our customers on a 
number of fronts. Through dedicated collections and campaigns we team up with them to help communities and raise awareness of important matters. Our Fashion Against Aids campaign focused on HI v/Aids 
awareness, H&M for Water on water issues in some of the poorest com -
munities in the world and our All for Children collections support our work with UNICEF in India and Bangladesh on children’s rights. We are also expanding our community investments through in-store dona -
tion campaigns.
We want to create fashion that 
our customers love from season to season and that helps them build their personal style. But if the point comes when some clothes are no longer right, we want to make it easy for customers to not let them go to waste. Through our new global initiative we are collecting unwanted clothes, from any brand, in H&M stores in all our markets to help reuse and recycle them.
We also try to inspire climate and 
water-conscious garment care. And we are working in several ways to make informed choices as easy as possible for consumers, for example through the Sustainable Apparel Coalition.
H&M has the strength and ability to bring 
sustainability ideas to the marketplace  
at scale. In the future I would like to see 
new business models – fewer products and different ideas about fashion.
Kate Fletcher, author of the book Sustainable Fashion and Textiles: 
Design Journeys (2008) and reader at the Centre for Sustainable  
Fashion, London College of Fashion ”Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S global system to collect old clothes for 
reuse and recycling launched
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201224 of 93commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
conSciou S action 1.6   
Introduce conscious wash 
and care instructions
Making fashion more sustainable 
includes inspiring our customers to choose conscious garment care.
The ‘user phase’ accounts for about 
36 percent of the climate impact of a garment’s lifecycle. Water eutroph -
ication – resulting, for example, from washing detergents and softeners – also arises to about 30 percent when clothes are washed in our homes. 
There are many ways to reduce this 
impact in a smart way without com -
promising on comfort or increasing costs. For example, reducing the washing temperature from 60 to 40 degrees can save 41 percent in energy use. What’s more, it keeps clothes just as clean and fresh – and it saves money!
We want to play a part in inspiring our customers to reduce this impact. 
That’s why we started discussions with Ginetex in 2011. Ginetex is the owner of the current global standard care labeling system. Our aim was to develop a globally-applicable care label that encourages consumers to care for their clothes in a more conscious way. 
We chose to collaborate with Gine -
tex in order to create a common 
standard for all brands globally to avoid a patchwork of different stand -
ards and labels, that would make things more confusing for everyone. This new so-called clevercare label is now available to all apparel brands globally. The first orders carrying this new label are planned to reach our stores in summer 2013.
> hm.com/care
> clevercare.info
41% le SS energy u Se60° 40°Started more to do on track
time S cale 2013
Statu S new clevercare label launchedconSciou S action 1.7   
Help set industry standard for measuring 
product sustainability
Joining forces with industry peers 
and other stakeholders is key to tackling the major sustainability challenges in our industry. This is why we joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition in 2011. This quick-growing multi-stakeholder ini -
tiative today brings about 50 percent of the global apparel and footwear production including brands such as Patagonia, GAP Inc., Nike Inc. and many more together with other key stakeholders such as suppliers, academics, and NGOs. Together, we are working to build a common approach for evaluating product sus -
tainability performance, using what is known as the Higg Index. 
Created in 2012, the index provides 
all members with a common tool to measure and benchmark the environmental and social impacts of their products. This in turn helps to highlight areas ripe for technologi -
cal innovation and to set the right priorities. At H&M, we tested the pilot version of the Higg Index during the year and found great value in it. A challenge of how to apply the index on a larger scale, however, remains and will require continued work.
Ultimately, taking this groundbreak -
ing work another step further, the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition aims to translate the Higg Index into consumer labelling, allowing cus -
tomers to compare the sustainability performance of apparel and footwear products across products and even brands. In line with our aim to make more sustainable choices as easy as possible for consumers, we fully sup -
port this ambition.
> apparelcoalition.orgStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S Sustainable Apparel Coalition laun -
ched the Higg Index
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201225 of 93
commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
conSciou S action 1.8  
Collaborate with French government in 
pilot on product lifecycle assessment
During 2011, we started collaborat -
ing with the French government in an 
initiative called the Grenelle Project. The project involves identifying meas -
urements for environmental impact and finding the best ways to make this impact transparent for customers. 
As part of the project, we looked at 
one of our t-shirts and evaluated the total water use, CO
2 emissions and 
eutrophication impacts throughout its life cycle, from growing the cot -
ton to the disposal or recycling of the garment. 
Collecting the necessary quality 
data for this ambitious undertaking was a challenge that helped us in gaining valuable knowledge. In 2012, we launched a dedicated website disclosing the exact results of this analysis to our French customers. The results underline the impor -
tance of the user phase on CO
2 
emissions and water eutrophication and the high water-intensity of cot -
ton cultivation. 
The take-home from this project 
will be of great help in our con-tinued work to analyse and mini -
mise impacts of apparel products throughout their lifecycle. It will hopefully also support the process of developing legislation for transparent product impact disclosure in the EU – an ambition that we support.
water u Se 
4.34 m 3carbon   
4.47 kg/CO2e
water  
eutrophication   
4.83 gr/phosphate 
equivalentsenvironmental impact of a t- Shirt
throughout it S lifecycleStarted more to do achieved
time S cale 2012
Statu S pilot conductedconSciou S action 1.9   
Provide best possible sustainability 
training for buyers and designers
In order to offer more sustainable 
fashion to our conscious customers, buyers and designers have to be well informed about the sustainability values and the impact of different products and their decisions. 
To this end, we provide dedicated 
mandatory training for these col -
leagues. 
Additional internal and external in-
depth training courses are encour -
aged for people in key positions and on a voluntary basis, for example in collaboration with the Sustain-able Fashion Academy. In 2012, we provided a total of 2,200 hours of sustainability training for our buyers and designers. Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 2,200 hours of training provided
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201226 of 93commI tment one
Provide fashion for conscious customers
conSciou S action 1.11   
Translate new sustainability website 
into multiple languages
We want to make a conscious and 
informed choice as easy and attrac -
tive to our customers as possible. As part of this, we translated our new sustainability website into eight major languages spoken in some of our most important markets. The aim is to provide as transparent information as possible to both our interested customers as well as other stakeholders, complementing our annual sustainability reporting. 
The website also features a regularly 
updated blog from our Head of Sus -
tainability, keeping our stakeholders informed about our progress and activities.
> hm.com/consciousStarted more to do achieved
time S cale 2012
Statu S website translated into 8 languages
375,000  
visitors  to our 
sustainability  
websiteconSciou S action 1.10   
Increase the knowledge amongst our sales 
advisors about our sustainability work
We want our colleagues to feel proud 
of where they work and confident that they can deliver the best pos -
sible customer service. So together with the launch of our first Conscious Collection in 2011, we rolled out a mandatory training programme for all our sales advisors. 
A study showed that while our 
colleagues were well-versed in conscious materials, other aspects of our sustainability work were not always as well known. 
That is why in 2012, we started 
developing a broader sustainability training ladder including exten -
sive mandatory training for all our colleagues. Additional manda -
tory role-specific and voluntary training courses are planned from 2013 onwards.Started more to do on track
time S cale 2013 onwards
Statu S new training programme in  
development
I would like to see more  
sustainability training for 
staff and more sustainabi-
lity communication to our  
customers in store, such 
as signs or posters.
Marcel Krink, Sales Advisor in H&M store 
DE714, Karlsruhe, Germany ”
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201227 of 93
Commitment two
Choose and reward responsible 
partners
 we set high standards for 
our suppliers and regularly monitor how well they live 
up to them. Likewise, in order for them to deliver their very best we need to be a good partner ourselves.
The challenge is that garment 
production is often located where human rights are at risk and envi -
ronmental awareness is less devel -
oped. As a labour-intense industry, for many of these countries this means the first step in industrial development, contributing to jobs and economic growth. As a com -
pany, we want to make sure that sourcing from these countries con-tributes to a positive development for the community and to better lives for the people working in this sector. 
Respect for people and the envi -
ronment is an essential part of our 
values. We use our influence to promote better working conditions and environmental consciousness throughout our value chain.
Our commitment is to choose and 
reward responsible partners who share our values and who are willing to be transparent and work with us to improve their social and environ-mental practices. We provide train-ing and support for improvements.
Production takes place at around 
1,800 factories that are owned or subcontracted by 785 suppliers. We look for long-term partnerships with our suppliers and engage in strate -
gic partnerships with the best ones. And we reward good sustainability performance with better business. As a result, our some 150 strategic partners make more than 50 percent of our products.  
We focus on working towards 
greater involvement of the workers themselves and on empowering our suppliers to take ownership of their sustainability issues. A close col -
laboration with our industry peers and many other stakeholders is key for change.
All this in turn can contribute to 
greater stability in the producing countries and tends to translate into more efficient operations and higher quality products.
Increasingly, we are also working to 
improve conditions in other parts of our value chain.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201228 of 93
Choose and reward responsible partners
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT  TWO
Choose and reward responsible partnersSTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
2.1 Be a responsible partner to our suppliers
2.2 Choose responsible partners
2.3 Have best possible knowledge about our value chain and our suppliers’ sustainability performance*
2.4 Go beyond monitoring and help suppliers strengthen their sustainability ownership
2.5 Further increase sustainability performance amongst supplier factories
2.6 Reward good sustainability performance with better business
2.7 Increase workers’ awareness of their rights
2.8 Promote higher wages for garment workers across the industry
2.9 Set up model factories
2.10 Ensure freedom of association and promote social dialogue
2.11 Reduce overtime in supplier factories
2.12 Support better health for factory workers in Cambodia 
2.13 Continue to promote improved fire safety in Bangladesh
2.14 Continue to promote an end to Sumangali schemes in the Indian textile industry
2.15 Request ban on Uzbek cotton– We conducted 2,541 audits at 
our supplier factories (first tier). Together with training and other support, this totals an average of 3.6 activities per factory, all working to improve their sustainability.
– Our CEO visited the Prime Minister 
of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina, to emphasise H&M’s support for higher minimum wages and regular wage adjustments in the country.
– Together with the Swedish union, 
IF Metall, we initiated a project in Cambodia aiming to improve the dialogue between employers and unions and to strengthen collective bargaining.
More than 
100,000 workers  and middle 
managers  in Bangladesh have received additional 
training  in fire safety9,815 interviews  
with workers in our supplier 
factories570,821  workers  
 in Bangladesh  
trained in their rights  
since 2008progreSS  reportPerformance overview
– Our supplier sustainability perfor -
mance index (ICoC) increased from 76.5 to 78.4 during 2012.
– As a result of our work to build 
strong, long-term relationships with our suppliers, we decided to publish our supplier list.commI tment two
* Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator AF 14 here (page 91-92).
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201229 of 93
viveka r iSberg,  
director, Swedwatch
What are the biggest challenges 
of the fashion industry from your perspective?Garments are produced mainly in countries with repressive regimes that do not promote human rights and sound wage processes based on UN standards and gender equality. Women especially, who constitute a majority of the workforce in the fashion industry, are deprived of their rights. Therefore a major challenge for the industry is to both support garment workers and at the same time use its leverage on a national and international level for increased wages and improved working condi -
tions. Less water consumption, clean cotton production and replacing cotton with other materials are of course important challenges for the industry, too.
What role do you think H&M plays 
in tackling these challenges?H&M is a forerunner and in some aspects a role model in the industry: On a strategic level because of its continuous dialogue with decision makers and on the operational level because of the focus on worker’s rights in the factories.
Where do you see H&M’s 
strengths?The company’s size and expansion are natural strengths that give H&M a mandate and possibility to influ -
ence. The top management’s engage -
ment stands out as a good example in the sector. The company’s efforts in measuring and rewarding compli -
ant suppliers shows that CSR is not only an external issue but on its way to be core.
What actions would you like to see 
from H&M in the future?I would like to see H&M upgrading the Code of Conduct’s demand for minimum wage to a wage to live on as well as greater actions for respect -
ing human rights in Bangladesh and extra attention to the situation of working women.H&M is a forerunner and in some 
aspects a role model in the industry.
viveka Risberg, Director, Swedwatch”
commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201230 of 93
We have high expectations of our 
suppliers in terms of quality, prices, lead times and sustainability. But demanding positive change from our suppliers starts with us. We have a responsibility to ensure that our purchasing processes enable our suppliers to live up to our demands by providing fair lead times, fair pricing, on-time payments and clear communication. We work with them in close partnership to learn from and understand each other and to reward suppliers with good sustain-ability performance.
Having our own production offices 
close to our suppliers allows us to have a constant dialogue with them. We strive for long-term relationships. Key for our suppliers are long-term partnerships and mutual growth, together with good planning in order to utilise their capacity as effectively as possible and plan their continued growth. That’s why as part of our supplier relationship management we offer our strategic partners up to five-year mutual capacity planning. In order to check how well we live up to our partnership approach, we surveyed our suppliers to see how they feel about working with us. It was the first time we conducted such an extensive supplier survey and we received 423 responses to the anonymous questionnaire. The results indicate that the vast major -
ity of the respondents were satisfied with their business relationship with us (around 90 percent), while satisfaction was even higher amongst our strategic partners. More than 70 percent said that their partnership with H&M has improved since we introduced our supplier relationship management programme in 2011. It also shows that most of our suppliers think that we have reasonable and clear demands on lead times, prices and flexibility. 
> hm.com/responsiblepurchasingconSciou S action  2.1  
Be a responsible partner to our suppliers
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 423 responses from suppliers to first 
broad supplier survey
Long-term 
partnerships 
and mutual 
capacity plan -
ning are key to 
suppliers.commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
Our 148  strategic partners  
make 53%  of our products
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201231 of 93
We are a growing company. With 10 
to 15 percent new stores per year, we constantly need to source new production capacity. As part of our sourcing strategy, we only allow production to take place with sup -
pliers and in factories that sign our Code of Conduct and commit to our values. This is the case whether they are owned directly by our suppliers or subcontracted by them. And it remains the case regardless of the price they offer. New partners must comply with the minimum requirements of our Code from the beginning and show the necessary willingness to work towards full compliance. When assessing a potential new partner, we start by providing them with detailed training about the expecta -
tions we have of a responsible part -conSciou S action 2.2   
Choose responsible partners
ner. If, based on this understanding, they continue to show a strong will -
ingness to work with us in a trustful and transparent manner, our com -
mercial sourcing teams often starts with a compliance screening pro -
cess, supported by dedicated tools. 
If this first assessment is positive, 
our auditors conduct an in-depth head audit. They have the mandate to take the final decision about whether a supplier or individual factory fulfils our minimum requirements and has the potential for further improve -
ment. Only after our auditors’ approval orders can be placed with any factory. In 2012, we audited 485 potential new supplier factories and of these did not approve 25 percent (119) . All factories that are approved in this initial assessment are covered by our Full Audit Programme (FAP), through which we continuously monitor the progress made by each factory and work to remediate any non-compliance that might arise.
> hm.com/monitoringStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S compliance with minimum require -
ments necessary to place orders with a factory 96% 
of all factories   
audited  before first  
order placement
25%  
 of potential 
new  
factories  
were  
rejected  
at the first  
audit
We set high 
social and 
environmental 
standards for 
our suppliers.commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201232 of 93
conSciou S action 2.3   
Have best possible knowledge about our value chain 
and our suppliers’ sustainability performance
Through our 15 production offices 
around the world, more than 1,800 of our colleagues work to maintain close relations with our suppliers and support their performance in various areas. This gives us the opportunity to understand each market and sup -
plier on an in-depth level. Through our strong presence, we can also work as closely as possible together with our suppliers on a daily basis, integrate what we learn in our busi -
ness decisions and interact with local stakeholders. There are around 100 sustainabil -
ity experts based in our produc -
tion offices who regularly audit our supplier factories’ compliance with our Code of Conduct and support improvements. Our audits follow a constantly updated list of around 300 questions and include an inspection of the factory, manage -
ment interviews, document checks and interviews with workers. Audits are complemented with thorough management system analysis, aiming to prevent any non-compliance in a sustainable manner.
Initial head audits are largely unan-
nounced (2012: 66 percent). Our Code of Conduct covers 100 percent of our commercial goods suppliers, with audit intensity varying based on our risk assessments and the importance of the factory to our business. Any non-compliance detected requires the supplier to draft a remediation plan which is followed up on by us. Wherever needed, we provide or facili -
tate additional support in implement -
ing the remediation plan. We publish all detailed audit results here.
Results from our audits are aggre -
gated in our Index Code of Conduct 
(ICoC index). Each factory and each-supplier is rated with an ICoC score (max. 100 percent) based on their compliance. These scores are clearly communicated to each factory. It’s also an integrated working tool in 
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 2,646 audits and 9,815 worker  
interviews conducted
no. of audit S on
active factorie S
total 
audit S 
2,646
head 
audit S 
total 
792follow 
up 
audit S 
total 
1,854
factorie S  
(cut & S ew + proce SSing)Second-tier S upplier Snon-commercial 
product S2,541
7471,7795862
30152847
fla verification S: 14  
(7 aSSeSSment S/7 worker S urvey S)2,646
audits conducted 
commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201233 of 93
our purchasing processes. Our data 
shows that strategic factories show a stronger performance than facto -
ries that we have just started work -
ing with – a clear indication of the improvements that our partnership approach promotes. 
Additional independent verification 
audits conducted by the Fair Labor Association (FLA) ensure the quality of our audit programme and help us to constantly improve our methods as we strive to tackle root causes of non-compliance in a transparent, trustful and sustainable manner.
We have continued our work to 
increase our influence over stages further down in our value chain. For the past few years, we have increased our engagement through our Mill Development Programme, which we continue to work with. In 2012, we conducted a total of 58 audits on second-tier suppliers and we now require all our first-tier sup -
pliers to provide us with information on the fabric mill for each order. The aim is to deepen our knowledge and influence over fabric mills. We are also extending the use of our Code of Conduct to include suppliers of non-commercial products such as store interiors and marketing mate -
rial and conducted a total of 62 head- and follow-up audits.
Seeking to further expand the trans -
parency of our supply chain, we have 
decided to disclose the list of our supplier factories, covering about 95 percent of our production volume. This publication is a consequence of our focus on strong and long-term partnerships with suppliers, allowing us to disclose their names without major concerns about competition on production capacity.
> hm.com/monitoring
> hm.com/supplychain
> hm.com/supplierlistaverage S uStainability performance
Score (ic oc) per factory category
 new 
factorie S 
71.4all 
factorie S 
78.4Str ategic 
factorie S 
81.7
New factories = results at first audit
All and strategic factories = results from 
existing factories by 1 Dec 2011 62% 
of our suppliers ’  
 emloyees are female
9,815 
worker interviews 
conductedno. of S upplier S and factorie S by region
Supplier S (all) 
785
far e aSt
340
South aS ia
242
emea 
203Str ategic 
partnerS  
148factorie S (all) 
1,798
far e aSt
760
South aS ia
499
emea 
53953% of piece S 
produced by 
Str ategic 
partnerSSupplier factory compliance level  
per area of requirement SThe data shows the compliance level of all supplier 
factories approved for production as of 30 Nov 2012. 
Further details including a regional breakdown are 
available at hm.com/suppliercompliance.
child 
labour 
100%
require-  
ment S for 
young 
worker S 
47%worker S’ 
baSic 
right S 
76%worker S’ 
right S 
75%health  
& Safety 
82%
environment  
67%hou Sing 
condition S
91%
home 
worker S
61%chemical 
handling
72%metal 
plating
75%tr an Sparency 
& monitoring
97%commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator AF 14 here (page 91-92).
One supplier can own or subcontract to one or more 
factories. Strategic factories are normally factories 
owned or subcontracted by our strategic partners.Strategic
factorie S
440
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201234 of 93
conSciou S action 2.4   
Go beyond monitoring and help suppliers  
strengthen their sustainability ownership
Monitoring our suppliers is impor -
tant, but not enough to create last -
ing change. Over the past few years 
we have therefore focused on going beyond monitoring to create sustain-able progress with the active partici -
pation of our supplier factories and their workers. Our long-term aim is for our suppliers to increasingly take charge of their own sustainability. That’s why we are investing major resources in helping them improve their management systems and pro -
vide and facilitate extensive training to factory management, mid-level management and workers them -
selves in order to strengthen their in-house sustainability capacities. 
Our focus is on our strategic part -
ners, where we have stronger influ -
ence and bigger impact. This way, 
complementing our purchasing prac -tices and auditing, we ultimately aim to significantly extend the improve -
ments in the sustainability perfor -
mance amongst our suppliers.
During 2012, we conducted 1,588 
management system analyses amongst our supplier factories. Together with about 2,300 other activities (such as capacity building and workshops) and 2,541 audits, each factory received an average of 3.6 (strategic factories 4.7) activities aiming to improve their sustainability. 
We are happy to see that more and 
more of our suppliers are taking a strong ownership over sustainability today, publishing their own sustain-ability reports and showing a strong record of performance measure -
ments. In Sri Lanka, we have there -
fore started to test self-reporting of sustainability performance with selected suppliers that have reached a very mature level in their sustain-ability. The test will be conducted and evaluated throughout 2013.
> hm.com/beyondmonitoringStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 1,588 management systems analysedaverage number of
SuStainability activitie S
Strategic factorie S vS.
all factorie S
1,588 
supplier management 
system analyses 
conductedStr ategic 
factorie S 
4.7
all 
factorie S 
3.6 commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
A healthy business requi-
res long-term sustainabi-
lity. H&M’s self-assessment 
project helped us to cali-brate our internal audit 
procedures according to 
H&M’s requirements. 
Mrs. Ranga Ranmadugala, CEO, Brandix 
Essentials Ltd., Sri Lanka”
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201235 of 93
conSciou S action 2.5   
Further increase sustainability performance amongst supplier factories
Ultimately, by being a good partner 
to our suppliers, continuously moni -
toring and strengthening our sup -
pliers’ sustainability management, and rewarding good performance we want to increase their sustainability performance further. In addition, by increasing awareness of their rights amongst factory workers, promot -
ing social dialogue and rewarding the best performing suppliers with better business, we hope to con-tribute to a positive development in the factories and their surrounding communities. 
We focus on our strategic factories 
where we have the strongest impact. We use our ICoC index to measure their sustainability performance, consisting of compliance results from our audits. Each factory and each supplier holds an ICoC score that is clearly communicated. Through our in-house production office organisa -
tion, they are closely integrated into our purchasing systems. We conduct annual dialogue meetings with our suppliers in which we amongst other things discuss their sustainability performance and their achieved ICoC score and together set priorities for further improvements.
Over the year we have seen continued 
progress across our entire supplier base with constantly increasing ICoC scores, while our strategic factories have shown an overall higher per -
formance level as well as a stronger increase throughout the year. We will continue our work to promote improvements and closely monitor and report on the progress made.
> hm.com/monitoringStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S sustainability performance (ICoC) 
increased from 76.5% to 78.4%
H&M’s efforts in 
measuring and 
rewarding compli -
ant suppliers shows 
that CSR is on its 
way to be core. 
Viveka r isberg, Director, 
swedwatch”The sus -
tainability 
performance 
amongst our 
supplier facto -
ries improves 
measurably.progre SS in factory
SuStainability performance
(in ic oc Score S)
all 
factorie SStr ategic 
factorie ScommI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
Applies to comparable factories that were used for 
production from 1 Dec 2011.Dec 
2011Q1 
2012Q2 
2012Q3 
2012Q4 
201279.3%79.3%78.8%80.0%81.7%
76.5% 76.6% 76.4%77.5%78.4%
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201236 of 93conSciou S action 2.6   
Reward good sustainability performance 
with better business
In order to sustain and incentivise 
good sustainability performance, we need to ensure that we reward our suppliers with what they would appre -
ciate most - long-term business rela -
tionships and growth opportunities.
Our strong in-house sustainability 
teams, based in our production offices close to our suppliers, help us integrate results from audits into our order placement and sourcing processes. We have integrated the performance score (ICoC) for each supplier factory into our planning and order systems, aiming to place more and bigger orders with the bet -
ter performing factories.
In order to measure how well we 
perform in terms of this ambition, we compare the ICoC scores of our supplier factories weighted by order volume with scores weighted against the available capacity in our factory base. The data show that we choose better performing factories in our order placement. Our supplier survey indicates that our suppliers experi -
ence and appreciate such reward.
We have also integrated sustainabil -
ity closely in our supplier relation-
ship management, offering long-term strategic partnerships with our best performing suppliers. Such strategic partnerships provide mutual ben -
efits, for example by securing stable business through long-term capac -
ity planning up to five years ahead. Out of our 785 suppliers, cur -
rently 148 strategic partners (19 percent) make 53 percent of our products.    
> hm.com/supplierrelationsStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S we choose better performing factories 
in our order placement5.8
years  average 
length of supplier 
relations
How long have you been working as supplier of H&M?We have been working with H&M for around 20 years, since we started our business in 1992. Back then we only had 120 workers. Since then we have been growing together with H&M year by year and today, we employ more than 3,000 people. And we keep expanding – we opened  
a new factory in 2010.
What has changed since the start?
In our industry, production has moved from Turkey to China and recently from China to Bangladesh. We have continued to grow, but we need to continuously improve in order to keep up with demands on quality, on-time delivery, capacity, prices and sustainability. During the partnership, H&M has perfected the related systems and continuously increased the focus on sustainability. As a supplier, we receive in-depth training to improve our sustainabil -
ity and H&M itself is driving several projects on workers ’ rights and  
environmental protection backed by clear values and targets to achieve.
How would you decribe your  
partnership with H&M?
It’s a close collaboration between 
business partners. H&M has high 
demands on transparency and in turn offers the same. The feedback is fast, helping us to react quickly and keep a fair mutual dialogue. Long-term capacity planning and continuous increases in orders are important for our business and closely linked to H&M ’s sustainabil-
ity requirements.
What would you like to see  
from H&M to further improve  the partnership?Most important is stable order  placement also during the low season. I would also like to see even more sharing of best practice amongst suppliers when it comes  to quality and sustainability.Joyce chen, m erchandi Se manager, h empel ( china), c o. ltd
icoc
weightedcommI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
by
order
volume  
78.8
by
Supplier
capacity
77.3Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201237 of 93Choose and reward responsible partnerscommI tment two
dan r eeS, director, 
better w ork
How long have you been col -
laborating with H&M?
We started our collaboration with H&M in 2005 in the Better Factories Cambodia Programme.
What was your first impression 
of H&M?Our impression was that H&M was a company that took CSR seriously, focusing on improving factory conditions and not just fol -
lowing a “tick-the-box” approach in auditing, which was common at that time.
How did the partnership evolve?
Better Work is now partnering with H&M in more countries. We have seen how the business has developed more strength and depth in its efforts to improve factory conditions. H&M is honest about what they want and what they can and cannot do. And they deliver on promises.What do you think are H&M ’s 
strengths when it comes to sus -
tainability?H&M is ahead of the curve in CSR.Their commitment to sustain-ability is supported by all levels of their organisation. The company has strong and decisive leadership, good relations with key stakehold -
ers, skilled staff and it is large enough to drive real change in the supply chain.
What actions would you like 
to see from H&M in the future?We would like to scale up our impact and make the most of H&M ’s leadership. We would 
encourage H&M to get more  
suppliers involved in Better Work.  
Sustainability should be placed at the heart of H&M ’s business strat -
egy, decision-making and negotia -
tions with suppliers.
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201238 of 93
conSciou S action 2.7   
Increase workers ’ awareness of their rights
Workers in supplier factories are 
often unaware of their rights. We believe that only workers who are aware of their rights can construc -
tively claim them and contribute to a more sustainable garment industry. 
In 2008, we teamed up with suppli -
ers and local NGOs in Bangladesh 
to develop a series of five short films and training packages in order to increase this awareness. 570,821 workers and middle managers received this training since the start of the project in 2008. During 2012, 128,790 workers and middle manag -
ers were trained.
In 2012, we developed similar short 
films also in India together with four other brands. We will implement the program in 2013.We also work to increase workers awareness on their rights through our regular work with all our sup -
plier factories, requiring the avail -
ability of our Code of Conduct for workers in local language and put -
ting focus on functioning grievance systems and social dialogue. 
Each year we conduct thousands 
of worker interviews through which – among other things – we check the level of awareness for example on their right to freedom of association or how their wages are actually cal -
culated. Looking back into the past four years, we can see good improve -
ments in workers’ awareness partic -
ularly in China making us confident to further focus on this strategic element of our work.
> hm.com/beyondmonitoringStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 570,821 workers trained since 2008570,821
workers  have been educated   
about their rights  since 2008
no. of worker S educated
about their right S
2008 2009 2010 2011 201228,807169,071
115,195128,958 128,790Since 2008  
570,821
Workers in 
our supplier 
factories in 
Bangladesh 
receive train-
ing on their 
rights using 
short films.
 Based on results from 3,420 worker interviews.% of worker S who know how
their wage ha S been calculatedcommI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
turkey india 
chinabanglade Sh 100%
2009 2010 2011 201250%
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201239 of 93
conSciou S action 2.8   
Promote higher wages for garment workers across the industry
Everyone in the garment indus -
try should earn enough to live on. 
There is no doubt. One of the basic requirements set out in our Code of Conduct, is that factory workers must be paid at least the minimum wage guaranteed by law. The Code of Conduct also expresses a clear intent that the salary must enable for the workers to support them -
selves and their families. In order to ensure this through-out our industry, further systemic change is needed. The challenges along this way are diverse and com -
plex. For example: Can individual factories pay higher wages than their competitors without putting their business and jobs at risk? How can one single buyer ensure that workers earn more in a factory that may be working for 10 or 20 different customers? And how can we ensure that wage developments in garment factories contribute to a natural growth in society without risking the competitiveness of entire countries? 
These are serious challenges but 
they are not excuses. We believe that empowered workers are the ultimate key to fair wages and working conditions. While we are realistic about the fact that there is a long way to go in many coun-tries, until wages are negotiated in fair collective bargaining processes, this must be the ultimate aim. In order to achieve this, we work on three levels. 
We work to increase the aware -
ness on their rights among workers 
through dedicated projects in Bang -
ladesh and India and through our regular work with all our suppliers.
On the factory level, we have for 
many years now been monitoring the compliance with applicable min -
imum wages or collective bargaining agreements. In 2011, we joined the 
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S independent fair wage assessments 
conductedFair Wage Network and as part of this the FLA conducted independ -
ent assessments of wage structures in about 200 of our supplier fac -
tories. Following this, we work to implement the fair wage concept in selected model factories aiming to deliver best practice examples. 
We work to strengthen the social 
dialogue in our supplier factories and reward those that have trade union representation and function -
ing worker committees in place.
Both empowered workers and best 
practice examples from individual factories can help to bring systemic change to countries and sectors. 
We also want to contribute to this 
by directly using our influence on decision makers and promote func -
tioning systems for minimum wages, their reviews and collective bargain-ing on industry level. 
Our CEO met with the Bangladeshi 
Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina, to underline H&M’s support for work -
ers’ claims for higher wages and commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
”When it comes to workers’ 
wages our standpoint 
is clear: We support the 
Bangladeshi workers’ demand for higher wages 
and regular reviews of the 
minimum salary.
Karl-Johan p ersson,  
ceo , H & m Hennes & m auritz ab
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201240 of 93conSciou S action 2.9   
Set up model factories
We place high demands on our sup -
plier factories – in various regards 
including sustainability. We are already seeing many of our strate -
gic partners performing very well against these requirements while still keeping up with constant improvements. But we also know that many of our suppliers and our entire industry have more potential to improve. To showcase that leadership in sustainability can go well together with best performance in all other areas, we want to team up with some of our best partners and create model factories. These best practice examples should set standards for our industry in many areas, includ -
ing quality, sustainability, efficiency and lead times.By doing this, together with these model factories we also want to work to implement the fair wage concept. We are currently in the process of identifying the best suited partners for this endeavour. 
> hm.com/beyondmonitoring
systems to continuously review and adjust wages to increases in the cost of living. The meeting followed two letters sent to the Government of Bangladesh in 2010, after which minimum wages in the country were increased by up to 81 percent, although systems for annual reviews are still missing.
In Cambodia, we teamed up with 
the Swedish union IF Metall to help local employer organisations and unions develop functioning col -
lective bargaining systems for the entire sector. Rewarding suppliers for good sustainability performance supports this work with clear busi -
ness benefits and security for suppli -
ers through a strong integration of sustainability into our purchasing practices and our commitment to long-term relationships. 
> hm.com/beyondmonitoring
> fair-wage.comStarted more to do on track
time S cale starting 2013
Statu S plan to create model factories with 
some of our best suppliersapplicable monthly minimum wage S 
vS. average wage S
Data based on audit results from representatively selected factories in 
each country/region. Wages applicable for machine operators (usually 
the largest group of employees) excluding overtime. In China, piece-rate 
systems often apply, hence wage data for China is not comparable.banglade ShUSD 42USD 61
cambodiaUSD 83USD 90
china 
(guangdong 
province)USD 176USD 389
india  
(banga-
lore)USD 91USD 100
turkeyUSD 374USD 476commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
aver age 
wage
minimum 
wage
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201241 of 93
conSciou S action 2.10   
Ensure freedom of association and promote 
social dialogue
At H&M, we believe that social dia -
logue and the fundamental right to 
freedom of association are key ele -
ments of successful and stable busi -
ness operations – both for ourselves and for our suppliers. But many of the countries in which our suppliers are located lack systems of social dialogue, such as collective bargain-ing on wages and working condi -
tions. In Bangladesh and Cambodia in particular, this has led to violent unrest and instability in the past. 
In 2011, we made a major shift in 
the way we assess compliance with the right to freedom of associa -
tion. Instead of asking if a worker’s right to freedom of association is respected, we now measure if trade unions are actually in place. Facto -
ries with trade union representation in place are now being rewarded with higher ICoC scores. Freedom of association, however, remains a major challenge in many of the markets in which we operate due to various political and societal reasons. We want to play our part in going beyond just monitoring free -
dom of association and contribute to improved social dialogue in our supply chain.
In 2011, we launched a social 
dialogue project in Bangladesh. We selected five factories to set best practice examples on democratic workplace representation. Since then we provided the management and workers with comprehensive training through external experts who also facilitated a total of 140 improvement circles involving more than 2,500 workers. In these circles, workers and managers discussed issues such as wages, leave, working clothes and protective gear at work, leading to jointly-agreed solutions. 
In 2012, we initiated a new exciting 
project in another important produc -
tion market: Cambodia. Unlike many other emerging markets, Cambo -
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 21% of our supplier factories have 
trade union representation in placedia has a long history of collective bargaining and trade union represen-tation. 100 percent of our supplier factories in the country have trade unions in place. However, negotia -
tions in the sector are often confron-tational, resulting in dead ends. 
Together with the Swedish trade 
union IF Metall, and several other stakeholders, we have set up a unique project aiming to educate trade unions and employers on the importance of solution-oriented, fair negotiations. We hope that this results in more stable market conditions with better results for the workers in Cambodia. 
In China, freedom of association 
remains a challenge due to politi -
cal reasons. Workplace representa -
tion brings new opportunities for worker involvement which is why we promote workplace committees amongst our suppliers.
> hm.com/beyondmonitoring% of S upplier factorie S with
trade union repre Sentation
per region
*China and Vietnam are not included as national 
legislation allows only one national trade union. commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
emea 
2012far e aSt* 
2012South aS ia
2012 total
2012 18%78%
6%21%
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201242 of 93
erik ander SSon, i nternational  
Secretary at the Swedi Sh 
union if m etall
What are the biggest challenges 
of the fashion industry from your perspective?The biggest challenge certainly is to achieve decent and fair working conditions for all employees in the textile industry. 
How important is the collabora -
tion amongst companies and 
other stakeholders in overcoming these challenges?It is very important that H&M is working for good coopera -
tion between suppliers and their employees.
Looking at Cambodia – how does 
the country differ from other markets and what is needed to improve the situation of garment workers?Cambodia is a country with a low standard of employment condi -
tions and low wages for the garment workers. The trade union move -
ment needs to be better equipped through education and training in order to better represent their members in negotiations with employers and to improve employ -
ment conditions and wages through collective bargaining agreements.
What role does H&M have in 
tackling these challenges?Through its auditing program, H&M monitors and follows up on that the applicable ILO conventions which are stated in H&M’s Code of Conduct are followed by their suppliers. In Cambodia, H&M has a close cooperation with ILO’s Better Factories Cambodia which is active in improving compliance with the ILO conventions in the readymade garment industry in the country.
Where do you see H&M’s 
strengths?H&M has its own organisation on the ground in Cambodia that fol -
lows up the suppliers’ compliance with H&M’s Code of Conduct. And H&M has a close cooperation both with the suppliers, unions, govern-ment bodies and Better Factories Cambodia. 
What actions you would like to 
see H&M take in the future?As major action for the future, I see that H&M and IF Metall together carry out the project which we are jointly planning for Cambodia, aiming to train and educate both the employers and the unions in negotiating collective bargaining agreements in good faith.
commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201243 of 93
conSciou S action 2.11   
Reduce overtime in supplier factories
Overtime continues to be a major 
challenge in the garment industry. Even though we require all suppliers to comply with national labour laws regarding overtime, non-compliance is common throughout the industry. By the end of 2012, we registered a compliance rate of 17 percent on overtime hours within the legal lim -
its among our supplier factories. 
One way we can help minimise 
overtime is through our own buy -
ing behaviour – fair lead times, clear communication and long-term capacity planning help suppliers to improve their staff planning and to reduce the need for overtime to meet production deadlines.
Sadly, this alone does not yet 
guarantee less overtime. Further improvements in supplier opera -tions and management systems are needed. Adding to the complexity of the issue, overtime compensation is often an important contributor to additional income, resulting in work -
ers themselves often demanding for overtime to increase their pay.
Together with our suppliers we have 
gained knowledge about the struc -
tural causes of overtime and entered several projects in this regard, for example aiming to decrease over -
time by increasing their efficiency. Through our supplier relationship management we can reduce stress on suppliers through our purchasing decisions, and through our manage -
ment system analysis and capacity building we work to help suppliers overcome structural issues in their operations.
However, the challenge of overtime 
remains a core issue in our indus -
try. It will require further scalable solutions in close connection with further promotion of higher wages while considering market-specific needs. We are committed to further focus on this challenge.Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S further industry efforts needed
commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201244 of 93
conSciou S action 2.12   
Support better health for factory workers in Cambodia
In 2012, incidents of workers 
fainting or feeling nauseous were reported in seven factories in Cam -
bodia. Out of these factories, four also produced garments for H&M and 218 workers were affected there. We ordered independent assess -
ments to find the root causes of these worrying incidents, but the results were not conclusive. One reason was that these incidents only happened in Cambodia and in factories producing different kinds of products making it difficult to find a pattern. 
To address this concerning issue, 
we have worked together with Bet -
ter Factories Cambodia (ILO-BFC), our suppliers and industry associa -
tions to adopt measures to prevent such incidents.In line with recommendations, the concerned factories developed dedi -
cated action plans. Improvements have been achieved in cooling, ventilation and chemical handling. In other areas, including grievance handling, health and safety com -
mittees that involve workers have been created.
We also initiated a six-month pro -
gramme to engage more local staff 
to take middle management posi -
tions. This is intended to improve communication between Khmer-speaking workers and the often  
Chinese-speaking management. We are also training HR and Compli -
ance employees in improved com -
munication and grievance systems. Some 179 key personnel received this training. 
We are continuing our work to also 
address this issue on an industry level through our close relationship with the ILO-BFC programme and with other concerned stakeholders across Cambodia. Furthermore, we are continuing to work on a broader action plan to help implement last -Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 179 human resource employees trained 
in improved communicationing solutions to this complex chal -
lenge throughout the sector.
> hm.com/beyondmonitoring
> betterfactories.org 179 
human resource 
employees  in 
supplier factories trained 
in improved 
communication
We work 
closely with 
various 
stakeholders in 
Cambodia.commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201245 of 93
commI tment two
conSciou S action 2.13   
Continue to promote improved fire safety in Bangladesh
Fire safety is a major issue in 
Bangladeshi garment factories. Poor electrical installations and bad maintenance often create significant fire hazards. In order to make a safe workplace the norm throughout the sector, we think that it is essential to involve all stakeholders such as the government, industry organi -
sations, trade unions and other brands. This is why we developed two training films to increase fire safety awareness amongst employ -
ees at all levels in garment facto -
ries. We teamed up with 18 other brands and employer associations in the sector, BGMEA and BKMEA, to spread this training not only in our some 200 supplier factories, but across the entire industry. 
So far, the training material has, 
according to BGMEA, been distrib -uted to more than 1,250 factories and at H&M supplier factories alone more than 100,000 workers have received the training. Our aim is to reach out to approximately 4,500 exporting garment factories in Bangladesh with around 3 million workers by the end of 2013. 
Based on a study that we conducted 
in 2011, we raised the concern of lapsed fire-safety licenses with the Government of Bangladesh and engaged the Bangladeshi University of Engineering and Technology as 
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 109,400 workers and middle managers 
received additional fire safety trainingwell as a specialist to assess the elec -
trical installation in four factories. 
These assessments were finalised 
in Spring 2012 and their results were presented to concerned stakeholders at a seminar in Dhaka. The most common shortcomings in regards to electrical safety such as poor-quality materials, poor mainte -
nance and lack of proper electrician training were discussed. During the seminar, a number of actions were proposed, including introducing stricter legislation and inspections.
In order to set a good example, we 
have stipulated that all our supplier factories conduct electrical assess -
ments in their factories, and have offered to share the costs with them. 
Together with the Fire Defence and 
Civil Department, we have also con-ducted five factory assessments on fire safety, involving the factories’ worker representatives. 
The assessments have shown that 
a continued increase in aware -
ness about fire safety is needed 109,400
workers  and middle 
managers  in 
H&M supplier factories 
alone have received 
additional fire safety 
trainingWe teamed up with  
18 other brands and  
local stakeholders aiming 
to reach some 3 million workers in Bangladesh 
with additional fire safety 
training.
”and we hope that the continuation 
of related training programmes will help to address this issue with stronger impact.
> hm.com/beyondmonitoringChoose and reward responsible partners
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201246 of 93conSciou S action 2.14   
Continue to promote an end to Sumangali 
schemes in the Indian textile industry
Sumangali schemes are a form of 
forced labour that involves young women being sent from their home villages to work, usually, in spin-ning mills. In Tamil, ‘sumangali’ refers to an unmarried girl becom -
ing a respectable woman through marriage. In return for their work the women and their families are promised a dowry at the end of a three-year contract. 
We view Sumangali schemes as abso -
lutely unacceptable and not compliant 
with the minimum requirements of our Code of Conduct. We address the issue with our suppliers and monitor the existence of any kinds of forced labour through our audit programme. 
Sumangali schemes occur mainly in 
spinning mills, over which we nor -
mally do not have direct contractual influence. We are therefore working hard to address this issue through collaborative actions and public policy, while continuing to work towards increasing our influence over this stage. 
In 2012, we decided to join a three-
year, multi-stakeholder project run by the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). The project aims to tackle this issue in joint efforts with all concerned stakeholders on a com -
munity as well as industry level. This includes awareness-raising amongst the general public and active engagement with suppliers and spinning mills as well as the relevant local governments and regulators. 
> hm.com/beyondmonitoring 
> ethicaltrade.orgStarted more to do on track
time S cale 2012-2014
Statu S we joined forces in a multi-stakeholder 
project run by the Ethical Trading Initiative conSciou S action 2.15   
Request ban on Uzbek cotton
Using underage anywhere is com -
pletely unacceptable. The global cotton supply chain is often complex and we do not have direct business relationships with cotton producers. Nevertheless, we address the issue of forced child labour in the Uzbek cotton industry regularly. 
In 2011, together with about 60 
other brands and NGOs, we signed a pledge facilitated by the Responsi -
ble Sourcing Network committing us not knowingly source Uzbek cotton. 
Additionally, we have worked to influ -
ence relevant policy-makers. In 2011, 
the European Parliament rejected a trade deal that would have made it easier for Uzbekistan to export textiles to Europe. We continue to welcome political efforts that can help to end the use of child labour in Uzbekistan.Since the beginning of 2013, we contractually request all our sup -
pliers to not source any cotton from Uzbekistan - neither directly nor through their suppliers. This now also includes a commitment to monitor compliance along their value chain, allowing us to perform random verification checks.
In parallel, we are mapping all fabric 
mills used by our suppliers  and working on setting up the required data systems to track the origin of fabrics used to make our clothes.
While our tracing systems continue to 
evolve, we aim for all cotton to come from more sustainable, fully traceable sources by 2020 at the latest.
> hm.com/cotton
> sourcingnetwork.org Started more to do achieved 
time S cale 2013
Statu S all suppliers are now contractually 
requested not to source cotton from Uzbekistan commI tment two
Choose and reward responsible partners
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201247 of 93
Commitment three
Be ethical
Being ethical is about doing 
the right thing. It means to not only treat our partners 
and colleagues fairly, but to try to go beyond the legal minimum. Words like transparency, integrity, respect, honesty, values and responsibility capture our essence of our commit -
ment to being ethical. 
We rely on thousands of people  
and relationships in delivering our business objectives. Whether they are customers, colleagues or business partners, we believe that showing respect towards everyone who contributes to H&M’s success is fundamental to our business. 
Our ethical approach is based on 
our commitment to respect human rights, taking a clear stand against corruption and is firmly rooted in our corporate values. 
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201248 of 93
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT  THREE
Be ethicalSTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
3.1 Ensure awareness and understanding of our Code of Ethics
3.2 Launch new Group-wide Human Rights Policy
3.3 Promote diversity and ensure equality amongst our colleagues
3.4 Ensure good workplace relations and dialogue with our colleagues in all markets
3.5 Attract and retain talent
3.6 Develop and implement a new global training system
3.7 Introduce updated global leadership programme
3.8 Reach over 90 percent compliance with our safety standards in our stores and offices
3.9 Communicate our business idea through responsible advertising– To underline our strong commit -
ment to human rights, we launched 
a specific Group-wide human rights policy based on the UN Guiding Prin-ciple on Business and Human Rights.
– 60% of our colleagues are covered 
by collective bargaining agreements.
– We launched a new global learning 
management system to streamline our employee training across our global operations.
– 100% of our commercial goods 
suppliers and 47% of all concerned colleagues received dedicated train -
ing in our Code of Ethics and we aim to reach 100% for both by the end of 2013.
7,402 additional 
jobs created   
(net, full-time equivalent)5 years  is the average 
length of employment  
of our full-time colleaguesprogreSS  reportPerformance overview
We became Corporate  
Supporter Member of Transparency 
International Sweden   
in January 201374% of our managers  
and 50%  of our board members 
are womenH&M has shown 
awareness of their company’s exposure 
to corruption chal -
lenges in its supply 
chain and has put 
great efforts into 
transparency and reporting on their 
activities.
Birgitta Nygren, Transparency  
International Sweden”commI tment t Hree
Be ethical
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201249 of 93
 
birgitta n ygren, m ember of 
the b oard, t ran Sparency 
international Sweden
What are the biggest challenges 
for the fashion industry in  
fighting corruption?As it is common for fashion compa -
nies like H&M to locate their produc -
tion in developing countries, they automatically expose themselves to the risk of corruption as bribery is a very common practice in these countries. Facilitation payments and bribes to ensure shipment are common requirements. Therefore, it is the utmost importance that these companies make sure that their anti-corruption policies are applied by all employees, all subcontractors and every agent and intermediary throughout the supply chain.
Where do you see H&M’s strengths 
in tackling these challenges?H&M has shown awareness of their company’s exposure to such chal -
lenges at an early stage, and the company leadership has put great effort into transparency and report -
ing on their activities in the develop -
ing countries in which they operate.
What actions would you like to 
see from H&M in the future?I would like to see H&M keep up their good work fighting corruption by identifying innovative ways to ensure compliance.
I would like to see H&M 
keep up their good work 
fighting corruption by 
identifying innovative ways to ensure compliance.
Birgitta Nygren, Member of the Board,  
Transparency International Sweden”commI tment t Hree
Be ethical
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201250 of 93
We take a clear stand against cor -
ruption, as emphasised in our Code 
of Ethics. Mutual trust and transpar -
ency are important in all our rela -
tionships, including our colleagues and business partners. As a result, we apply a zero tolerance policy. But much more than that, we take a proactive approach, aiming to pre -
vent any non-compliance through training and creating a strong aware -
ness amongst both our colleagues and suppliers.
Risk assessments across our entire 
business found that the risk for non-compliance is highest with colleagues who are in contact with external business partners. For some time now it has been mandatory for those colleagues to sign and comply with our Code of Ethics, supported by dedicated training.  By 2012, an estimated 47 percent of all our concerned colleagues received dedicated training and participated in related workshops. Our target is to reach 100 percent by the end of 2013. But we also want all other colleagues to be aware of our policy. That’s why we have made this a part of our mandatory induction training for all employees.  
Beyond our internal operations, cor -
ruption continues to be a challenge 
in some of the countries where we operate and particularly where many suppliers are located. We have made it mandatory for all our suppliers and business partners to sign a tailor-made version of our Code of Ethics as a minimum requirement of any business relationship with H&M. 100 percent of our commercial goods sup -
pliers have received related training. In 2012, we updated our supplier code to amongst others now clearly state that any kind of bribery or facilitation money as part of the price of goods or services goes against H&M’ s principles. In this 
way we hope to contribute to further conSciou S action 3.1   
Ensure awareness and understanding 
of our Code of Ethics
Started more to do on track
time S cale 2013
Statu S 47 percent of concerned colleagues 
trained, 100% targeted by 2013systemic change and value building 
in countries of concern.
We audit the effectiveness of our 
compliance-monitoring processes in all our business units. We also have a global whistleblowing system. In 2012, we handled 34 incidents of non-compliance, 12 of which led to terminations and eight to formal written warnings. Most of these con-cerned theft of company property and accepting gifts.
> hm.com/anticorruption
commI tment t Hree
Be ethicalWe became Corporate Supporter 
Member of Transparency 
International Sweden   
in January 2013
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201251 of 93
Respecting human rights has always 
been vital to us both as an employer, business partner and corporate citizen. This is reflected for example in our values, our business principles our Global Framework Agreement with UNI Global Union and our Code of Conduct.
To underline our strong commit -
ment to human rights, we launched 
a Group-wide human rights policy based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in 2012. The policy has been reviewed by a broad range of stakeholders such as UNICEF, UNI Global Union and human rights specialists, including Professor John Ruggie who has served as the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Business and Human Rights. We are committed to human rights in our 
The substance of H&M’s human rights policy statement 
closely tracks the relevant provisions of the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Professor John Ruggie, UN Special Representative on the issue of human rights and  
transnational corporations and other business enterprisesoperations, supply chain and in the 
communities in which we operate. 
One example is our comprehensive 
efforts to improve working condi -
tions in our supply chain. Wherever possible, we also want to use our influence to promote the fulfilment of human rights in the countries we operate in, for example through pub -
lic advocacy. As outlined in our new policy, an important part of manag -
ing human rights issues is to conduct due diligence processes, such as risk assessments, that focus on human rights impacts affected by our busi -
ness activities. Particular attention is paid to some of the key issues in our industry:– Labour rights– Women’s rights – The right to water
”conSciou S action  3.2  
Launch new Group-wide Human Rights Policy
Started more to do achieved
time S cale 2012
Statu S updated policy launchedWe developed human rights impact assessments and due diligence tools during 2012 and started to use these for any new production markets from late 2012 and onwards. 
We seek to apply a similar method 
to all new sales markets identified as risk markets for entry from 2014 onwards. We are also looking at developing tools and methods for conducting human rights impact assessments on existing high-risk sales and production markets in the future. We will monitor the imple -
mentation through our internal audit process.
> hm.com/policies
commI tment t Hree
Be ethical
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201252 of 93
We see team diversity as an asset to 
the company at all levels, something reflected clearly in our corporate values. We welcome the opportu -
nity to put this into action as often as possible. From promoting our colleagues all the way to appointing members to our board regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, religious beliefs and more, we are dedicated to ensuring equal oppor -
tunity throughout the company and we have related policies in place. 78 percent of our colleagues are women, so it is integral to our opera -
tions that leadership reflects that. 74 percent of our managers and 50 percent of our board members are women, too. In addition, we are now taking part in an initiative called the “Battle of the Numbers.” Together with nine top multinationals in Swe -conSciou S action 3.3   
Promote diversity and ensure equality amongst our colleagues
den, companies such as Ericsson, Sandvik and v olvo, we will imple -
ment programs dedicated to increas -
ing the number of female leaders. 
> hm.com/fairpartner
> hm.com/policies
> battleofthenumbers.seStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S we joined the “Battle of the Numbers” 
projectratio women/men
in management
poSition S
women
74% ratio women/men
in our b oard of
director S
women
50% men
50% men
26% ratio women/men
among St all
colleague S
women
78% men
22% 
Starting with store managers.
ratio full time/  
part time
colleague S
 part time
56%full time
44%ratio permanent/
temporary employment
contract S
 permanent
81% temporary
19% 29.4 
years is the 
average age   
of our colleaguescommI tment t Hree
Be ethical
Based on a total of ten board members 
(eight ordinary members elected by the the 
Annual General Meeting and two  
employee representatives. Two female dep-
uty employee representatives not included).
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201253 of 93What is the essence of H&M and 
UNI Global Union’s framework agreement?The agreement commits H&M and UNI (and its affiliates) to work together in a spirit of construc -
tive social dialogue and to jointly resolve issues that may arise throughout H&M’s operations. 
What do you see as the most 
important success factors of the implementation of a global agreement?UNI and H&M cooperate well so that problems can be addressed openly even if we do not always reach agreement on all issues. 
Where do you see H&M’s 
strengths in ensuring good work -
ing conditions for its employees around the world?A good cooperation and social dialogue with local employee repre -
sentatives is the key to the success of any company. What actions you would like to see H&M take in the future?I would like to see an even stronger emphasis on implementing neu -
trality at all operations regarding union organisation. 
alke b oeSSinger, h ead of uni c ommerce
We strive to have good relations with all our colleagues, employee asso -
ciations and the trade unions that represent them. Since 2004, we have had a Global Framework Agreement with UNI Global Union in place. This declares that both H&M and our employees regard the Interna -
tional Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Prin-ciples and Rights at Work to be the cornerstone of our cooperation. 
This includes our commitment to 
workplace representation and across all of our operations, 60 percent of our colleagues are covered by collec -
tive bargaining agreements. Employ -
ees are also represented at the board level and two of the ten board mem -
bers are employee representatives (additionally there are two deputy employee representatives).conSciou S action 3.4  
Ensure good workplace relations 
and dialogue with our colleagues in all markets
 Besides various engagements on the 
local level, our global Employee Rela -
tions Manager holds regular meetings with representatives of the European Works Council (EWC). 
This forum was set up as part of our 
collaboration with UNI Global Union and comprises of employee repre -
sentatives from some of our most important sales countries including Germany, UK, France and Sweden. 
We also have an open-door policy, 
which means every colleague is wel -
come to approach managers regard -
ing work-related issues at any time. 
> hm.com/fairpartner
> uniglobalunion.orgStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 60 percent of our colleagues are 
covered by collective bargaining agreementscommI tment t Hree
Be ethical
60%
of our colleagues covered  
by collective 
bargaining  
agreementsStakeholder Voice
UNI and H&M cooperate 
well so that problems 
can be addressed openly 
even if we do not always reach agreement on all 
issues.
Alke Boessinger, Head of Uni Commerce”H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201254 of 93more to doconSciou S action 3.6   
Develop and implement a 
new global training system
We want our colleagues to feel 
valued and give them the opportu -
nity to grow within the company. The training we give needs to be consistently excellent throughout our operations worldwide while also taking into account local needs. Therefore, we have strengthened our global training organisation and developed a learning management system called ‘GROW.’ Amongst other benefits, the system allows all our colleagues to access e-learning courses and relevant information about training within the H&M Group. It also serves as a course-booking facility for classroom train-ing sessions and a library for manda -
tory and optional training courses, including modules on sustainability. All of the courses are made up of modules suited to different needs. We use various training techniques, including self-study with e-learning tools that are carried out either at the workplace or from home. The system started in 2012 and the global implementation will continue into 2014.
> hm.com/training
Started on track
time S cale 2014
Statu S system implementation startedconSciou S action 3.5   
Attract and retain talent
Our continued growth requires that we constantly attract new talent. And retain the talent we already have. Talent management is integral to our strength as a company and to ensure that everyone is able to develop to their full potential. We are also working on ensuring the quality and thoroughness of our recruitment processes and that our recruiters have all the best tools and training they need. We are develop -
ing new screening tools to ensure fairness in the recruitment process as well as maintaining a continued high calibre of applicants. We are also working on internal assessment tools based on our identified areas of expertise and values. This is in order to create transparency and ensure we have the right person in the right place while preparing them for the next steps in their career.Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S new career website launched5
years  is the average 
time our full time 
colleagues  have 
been with H&M
commI tment t Hree
Be ethical
> hm.com/career
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201255 of 938,320 
safety 
training 
sessions 
conducted 
in H&M 
storesconSciou S action 3.8  
Reach over 90 percent compliance with our 
safety standards in our stores and offices
We want to create a pleasant and 
safe environment for our custom -
ers and colleagues throughout our operations. Wherever accidents and occupational illness are a risk, measures must be taken to prevent them. During 2012, we registered zero workplace fatalities and 5,899 workplace accidents in H&M stores globally. 
We need to ensure that all our col -
leagues are trained from the begin-
ning of their employment. This is why we have started to integrate our security and safety training into our digital Learning Management System ‘Grow.’
To minimise the risk of accidents, 
we conduct yearly audits in all our stores. As part of this, the auditor helps stores to make action plans to reach our standards for a safe working and shopping environ -
ment. We had set a target to reach a compliance level of 90 percent by the end of 2012. We have not fully achieved this target and reached a level of 83 percent. That’s why we have set a new target to reach over 90 percent compliance by 2015 the latest.Started more to do on track
time S cale 2015
Statu S 83 percent compliance
compliance level with
Safety S tandard S
2012 2015
targetmin. 
90%
83%conSciou S action 3.7   
Introduce updated global  
leadership programme
We are expanding and need to 
attract outstanding talent. Many of our managers are recruited inter -
nally and we need to retain and build the talent we have to accom -
modate our further growth. We have developed a new global training and education concept to equip new and potential managers with the skills they need to be good leaders and fair partners to their team. 
As part of this, we have developed 
an updated leadership philosophy: “Leadership is about inspiration, delegation, feedback and motivation. We lead by example, always driven by our values and our ambition to make our people and business grow.”
In connection to that philosophy, 
we have also developed a leadership pipeline, consisting of five levels and connected to our corporate values. We have also introduced and will continue to develop leadership training for different levels to meet the requirements for our leadership. The implementation of this updated global leadership programme started in all countries in 2012.
> hm.com/careerStarted more to do on track
time S cale 2012
Statu S implementation started globally
Be ethicalcommI tment t Hree
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201256 of 93
conSciou S action 3.9   
Communicate our business idea through responsible advertising
We communicate our business idea 
through the various advertising cam -
paigns that we produce each year throughout the world. Our advertis -
ing has a broad impact in all 48 mar -
kets. We aim to inspire a wide and diverse target group and we work with some of the world’s best photog -
raphers, models and style icons.
The challenge we face is to balance 
between individual and cultural perceptions, customer demands, the diversity of models, looks and atti -
tudes and at the same time produce high-fashion images and messages that support the current trends and our customer offering in an inspiring way – without conveying any spe -
cific ideal or encouraging a choice of lifestyle. We try to take all these aspects into consideration right from the start when planning our cam -Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S dedicated advertising policy in placepaigns, but it is no easy task. This year we received feedback from the Swedish advertising ethics organi -
sation that one of our campaigns featured a swimwear model that showed a too tanned look. As we do not wish to promote any particular ideal or lifestyle, we will take this matter into consideration in future campaign planning.
For many years, to ensure ethical 
standards, we have had an adver -
tising policy in place, committing us, amongst others, to consider the impact of our advertising around the world and to choose models and images that convey a positive image. 
We regularly conduct customer sur -
veys to measure the feedback from 
our campaigns and are happy to see that they are generally well appre -
ciated. We strive to consider any feedback that we receive to create inspiring campaigns. 
> hm.com/responsiblemarketing 
commI tment t Hree
Be ethical
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201257 of 93Climate change is one of the 
major challenges of our time. Like many other organisations, 
we have a keen interest in tackling this – and a responsibility to do so. And as for many businesses, energy use and transport are unavoidable. We do, however, work hard to be as energy efficient as possible. And for the energy use we cannot avoid, we ultimately strive to use renewable energy only. Our goal is to reduce our operations’ total emissions by 2015 – despite our continued growth of 10 to 15 percent new stores each year.
Still, the biggest climate impact 
along our value chain happens outside of our operations. That’s why we also want to use our influ -
ence to encourage action on climate. This includes working with suppliers, fabric mills and transport providers in a range of voluntary programmes and collaborative initiatives to improve their energy efficiency and overall environmental performance. It also includes inspiring conscious garment care amongst customers.
Commitment four
Be climate smart
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201258 of 93
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT FOUR
Be climate smartSTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
4.1 Reduce our operations’  total greenhouse gas emissions*
4.2 Reduce electricity use in stores by 20 percent per square metre*
4.3 Source 100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources
4.4 Choose and promote environmentally-conscious transport
4.5 Promote energy efficiency amongst our suppliers– We reduced CO 2 emissions by 5% 
relative to sales by offsetting and 
through improved energy efficiency in our stores.
– We set a new target, committing us 
to reduce our operations’ total emis -
sions by 2015 the latest – despite our continued growth. 
– We raised our target to ultimately 
source 100% of our electricity from renewables.
– We have engaged 154 supplier 
factories in energy efficiency pro -
grammes.
– Around 90% of transports from  
production countries to our distribu -
tion centres are made via sea or rail.
784,200 kWh  of solar energy generated through our own solar 
photovoltaic panels  – enough to supply about 145  average 
European households with energy for one yearprogreSS  reportPerformance overview
15% reductions  in electricity  
use per square metre in our stores achieved 
since 2007Climate impact   
across the value chain
Raw materials  
15% 
Fabric processing  
39%   
Production  
4%  
Transport  
3%
Sales  
3%
Use  
36%commI tment four
Be climate smart
* Please find independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN16 and EN3 here (page 91-92).
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201259 of 93
mohamed Zahidullah,  
general m anager, dbl  group,  
banglade Sh
How can fashion brands contrib -
ute to combating climate change?
Fashion brands can contribute to combating climate change by designing products that have mini -
mum impact on climate. This may be in the form of colour intensity, requirement of dyes, chemicals, pigments, etc. on fabric. The designers and product developers need to be aware of the impact of the products they create. 
What role do you think H&M 
takes in this regard?With its Conscious product range, H&M lifts climate smarter material choices to a larger scale. With the size of the company this scale has a significant impact.
What’s your stand on H&M’s 
work to contribute to greenhouse gas reductions in its value chain?We are a strategic supplier of H&M. As such we are committed to work together in all the efforts taken by H&M in reducing emissions. One such example is the Cleaner Production Programme which DBL has joined. We are happy that our factories are amongst the best per -
forming in the programme. 
What are H&M’s strengths today?
Its people, knowledgeable in-house think tanks, big capacity, large-scale expansion plan, transparency, pro-activeness in sustainability, trust from business partners and its collaborative partnership approach, even in economically  difficult times.
What actions you would like to 
see H&M take in the future?We would like to see H&M continue to combat climate change and cre -
ate even more products with less climate impact. 
commI tment four
Be climate smart
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201260 of 93For the last three years, our target 
has been to reduce our emissions by five percent relative to sales each year. We achieved this goal in 2012 by offsetting and through increased energy efficiency 
Now we are taking our ambitions 
another step further. We want to achieve reductions in our operations’ total emissions by 2015 – despite our continued growth of 10 to 15 per -
cent new stores each year. This year, total emissions from our operations were 574,611 tonnes, with electricity use in our stores having the largest impact (50 percent). We want to achieve these reductions without offsetting any emissions. Accord -
ingly, achieving this ambitious target requires us to further improve our energy efficiency and increase our use of renewable energy.
We would love to see H&M 
shift their targets from 
reducing carbon emissions 
relative to sales to redu -
cing their absolute annual 
carbon emissions.
Niels Oskam, Founder, Rank a BrandStill, our direct operations repre -
sent just about three percent of the 
climate impact in the life cycle of our products. That is why we keep working all along our value chain to contribute to emission reduc -
tions. We can reduce the impact by, for example, making conscious material and transport choices and by influencing and inspiring others to take action, too.
> hm.com/climate
”conSciou S action  4.1  
Reduce our operations ’ total greenhouse gas emissions
Started more to do on track
time S cale 2015
Statu S 5 percent reduction  relative  to sales achie-
ved, new goal set to achieve absolute reductions
co 2e emi SSion S in tonne S
relate S to million Sek S ale S
2011 2012 2010 2009 3t3.16t3.33t3.5t
Methodology aligned with Greenhouse Gas Protocol.co 2e emi SSion S by S ourceco 2e emi SSion S by S cope (in tonne S/%)commI tment four
Be climate smart
people  
tran Sport
5%
good S 
tr an Sport 
35%
other 
facilitie S
10%Store S 
electricity
50%
> ghgprotocol.org
Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI 3.1 indicator EN16 here (page 91-92).In order to report the progress against our 2012 
target to reduce carbon emission relative to sales 
independently from currency fluctuations, we 
report CO2e in tonnes per million SEK converted 
from local currencies using consistent exchange 
rates from the baseline year of 2009.scope 1  15,282t 3% (direct emissions; i.e. fuel use)
scope 2  329,630t 59%(indirect emissions from consumption  
of purchased electricity, heat or steam)
scope 3 229,699t 38%(other indirect emissions, such as resulting  from outsourced transport and business travel)
total 574,611t 100%
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201261 of 93
Energy efficiency means minimising 
environmental impact. It naturally also plays a role in cost competitive -
ness so there are clear advantages to good energy efficiency.
A key target for our energy effi -
ciency is to reduce electricity use 
per square metre in our stores by 20 percent, as compared to a 2007 baseline, by 2020. With 15 percent reduction achieved by 2012, we are on track in achieving this target. Total energy use has been reduced in newly-built and rebuilt stores by implementing our environmental guidelines for new stores. Reduc -
tions in existing stores are the result of constant management focus on energy efficiency. 
We have been installing energy 
monitoring devices in all our stores, conSciou S action 4.2   
Reduce electricity use in stores by 20 percent per square metre
Started more to do on track
time S cale 2020
Statu S 15 percent reduction achieved
which offers us a greater ability to use energy in the stores in the best way. Energy monitoring in all stores is planned throughout 2013.
> hm.com/climateBaseline year: 2007. energy u Se reduction
per S tore S qm
direct energy con Sumption
in g J (Scope 1+2)
2010 2011 20122,982,6623,320,5563,447,404commI tment four
Be climate smart
2012target 
2020 2011 2010
-8
-11
-15
-20
Please find an independent assurance statement related 
to GRI 3.1 indicator EN3 and here (page 91-92).
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201262 of 93
conSciou S action 4.3   
Source 100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources
Using more electricity from renew -
able sources is a key target, but it has 
been difficult to monitor progress. This is due to the lack of a robust framework for defining what qualifies as renewable energy, as well as how to account for and report CO
2 emis -
sion reductions associated with its use. So, we took action with a range of stakeholders. Together with the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) amongst others, we collaborated in a dedicated working group to find a consensus on how to define, measure and report on renewable energy use.
We are pleased to see that these 
joint efforts are resulting in a set of new global guidelines that are to be published in 2013. This is a critical step in ultimately helping us reduce our scope 2 emissions as well as spur demand for renewable energy. With the guidelines in place we will be able to follow up on our performance in sourcing renewable energy. 
In the meantime, we have taken 
this opportunity to increase our ambition to work towards sourc -
ing all our electricity from renew -
able sources. We have already been making investments to help us move towards this target. In 2012, our own photovoltaic solar panels generated approximately 784,200 kWh of elec -
tricity – enough to supply about 145 average European households with energy for one year. 
> hm.com/climateStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S helped to develop global renewable 
energy accounting guidanceThe GHG Protocol applauds H&M’s com -
mitment to renewable energy purchases 
and related GHG emissions reductions. 
With the complementary commitment to use the GHG Protocol’s Scope 2 Accoun -
ting Guidance, progress towards their ambitious renewable energy goals can be tracked and evaluated using rigorous, 
transparent, internationally-consistent 
reporting practices. 
Mary Sotos, World Resources Institute (WRI)”784,200 
kWh  of solar energy generated through our own 
solar  photovoltaic panels
commI tment four
Be climate smart
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201263 of 93
conSciou S action 4.4   
Choose and promote environmentally-conscious transport
The size and geographical spread of 
our business requires different means of transport in various parts of the world. Our challenge is that our trans -
portation needs will increase further as our business grows. Transportation of goods stands for about 3 percent of the climate impact in our products’ lifecycle. Even though this is quite a small percentage, we have the pos -
sibility to make a difference here. Our ambition is to meet these needs with limited use of natural resources and with as few emissions as possible. As we don not own any transport facili -
ties, choosing sea or rail transport wherever possible and influencing our transport partners to improve their environmental performance are important aspects of our work.
For many years now, we have had 
minimum requirements for transport service providers in place. Through collaborative action we are promoting uptake of fuel-efficient technologies and increasing the environmental performance of transport providers through SmartWay, WayAhead and the Clean Shipping Project.
In 2012, around 90 percent of the 
shipped volumes were transported from the production country to our distribution centres via sea or rail. Since 2010, emissions resulting from transport have increased by 4 percent, while sales increased by 11 percent.
> hm.com/climate Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S around 90 percent sea and rail  
transport
emiSSion S re Sulting from
tran Sport 2010–2012 (tonne S co 2e)
2010 2011 2012203,29490%
of our goods were 
transported  via 
sea  or railAround
commI tment four
Be climate smart
195,948
169,609
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201264 of 93
conSciou S action 4.5   
Promote energy efficiency amongst our suppliers
At H&M, we recognise that our cli -
mate responsibility extends not only 
to our direct emissions and those of our energy providers, but also to those emissions that are created in the man-ufacturing of our goods. These rep -
resent about 4 percent of the climate impact from a product’s lifecycle. 
In 2010, we started working with 
business partners to set up Sup -
plier Energy Efficiency Programmes (SEEP) in a number of our produc -
tion countries. The programmes include workshops and tools, or con-nect supplier factories to energy ser -
vice companies to identify potential efficiency gains and provide support for developing action plans to take advantage of these. 
By the end of 2012, 44 factories 
had completed a programme with another 110 undergoing planning or implementation. Based on this, we have developed data baselines and we will evaluate the factories’ perfor -
mance against these through 2013. 
> hm.com/climateStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 154 factories engaged in Supplier 
Energy Efficiency Programmes (SEEP)
Just the way H&M educated factories to be 
more systematic and transparent in produc -
tion processes, it is now making factories more aware of their environmental impact and how to reduce it.
Ravi Kumar, CEO, Indian Designs Exports Pvt. Ltd.”
commI tment four
Be climate smart 154 
factories  engaged in 
energy efficiency  
programmes
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201265 of 93making the most of the 
resources we use and avoid -
ing waste is central to our 
business idea. Avoiding unneces -
sary material use and applying smart methods to reuse and recy -
cle helps reduce waste. But it also helps to decrease the need for virgin resources. Both mean fewer envi -
ronmental impacts – and it can save money, too.
Manufacturing waste, transport 
and product packaging, shopping bags, shop fittings and waste from building new stores are all sources of waste generated across our value chain. Our vision is to send zero waste from our operations to landfill. But we do not want to stop there. We want to inspire and help our customers and business partners to reduce the waste that they generate.
Commitment five  
Reduce, reuse, recycle
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201266 of 93
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT FI vE
Reduce, reuse, recycleSTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
5.1 Close the loop on textile fibres
5.2 Encourage customers to reuse or recycle bags
5.3 Further promote the innovation and use of recycled fabrics
5.4 Recycle at least 95 percent of waste handled in our distribution centres– We now offer our customers in  
all our markets the opportunity to 
leave old clothes, from any brand, at selected H&M stores – a first for a fashion company. With the help of our partner I:Collect, these will be reused and recycled. Nothing goes to the landfill. In the long run we want to close the loop on textile fibres and upcycle these into new clothes. 
– 92% of the waste handled in our 
distributions centres was recycled.
95%  of the waste  handled in our distribution centres 
targeted to be recycled  by the end of 2013 Our use of recycled polyester  is 
equivalent to 7.9 million PET bottlesprogreSS  reportPerformance overview
We want to make 
it easy for our 
customers not to 
let fashion go to waste. That is why 
we are now offe -
ring the possibility 
to leave unwanted 
clothes at H&M. 
Karl-Johan Persson,  
CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB”commI tment fI ve
Reduce, reuse, recycle
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201267 of 93
allanna m acaSpurn,  
ceo, made-b y
What are the biggest challenges 
for sustainable fashion from your perspective?One of the biggest challenges cer -
tainly is how to credibly tackle the environmental impact of fashion, including the textile waste going to landfills. Fast fashion is not going away, so we need to look at creat -
ing it in a more responsible way with minimal components, sustain-able fabrics and processes. These products also need to be designed and produced in such a way that they can be easily pulled apart and recycled into new yarns and com -
ponents. All of this is difficult to achieve right now within a time -
frame and budget that is acceptable to conventional fashion businesses.
Where do you see H&M’s 
strengths?I see two key strengths: Sustain-ability is embedded into the busi -
ness and naturally the size of H&M, which gives it the leverage needed to motivate suppliers to improve their practices.
What actions you would like to 
see H&M take in the future?I would like to see more solutions for the end of life of clothes – from the design process to the customer.
I would like to see more 
solutions to the end of life 
of clothes.
Allanna MacAspurn, CEO, MADE-B y”
commI tment f Ive
Reduce, reuse, recycle
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201268 of 93conSciou S action 5.2   
Encourage customers to 
reuse or recycle bags
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S plastic bags are made of recycled 
materialWe encourage reusing and recycling 
our bags by printing ‘Please re-use or recycle’ messages on them. 
Additionally, with the introduction 
of H&M’s new garment collecting system, we ask customers to bring their old clothes in bags, which will then be recycled too.
100% 
of H&M standard 
plastic bags  are 
made of recycled  
material
Too many textiles end up in landfill. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), 5 percent of the waste in US landfills is textiles and 95 percent could be recycled.
Extracting virgin resources at one 
end and wasting them on the other one does not make business sense and doubles the stress on our envi -
ronment. This is why after a suc -
cessful pilot in Switzerland, we are now the first fashion company in the world to offer our customers the opportunity to bring unwanted clothes – from any brand and in any condition - to H&M stores in all our 48 markets in order to give them a new life. This way we want to provide our customers with an easy solution not to let fashion go to waste, reward -
ing them with discounts as thanks.All collected clothes are reused or recycled, at the moment for example as second hand clothes or recycled into your next cleaning cloth or the insulation material for your car or house. Nothing goes to the landfill. This saves natural resources and reduces waste. But we are aiming for more: In the long run, we want to create new clothes out of the col -
lected garments and close the loop on textile fibres.
Today, one of the challenges is that 
often the yarn made of recycled textiles is not strong enough to make new quality garments. But we believe that by creating demand for technical innovation, even this challenge can be tackled. Addition-ally, we invest all surplus generated by selling collected textiles to their new users into this kind of textile recyling innovation, as well as social projects, through our Conscious Foundation.
> hm.com/longlivefashion
> ico-spirit.com
> hm.charitystar.com conSciou S action  5.1  
Close the loop on textile fibres
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S first global garment collecting system 
launched in all marketscommI tment f Ive
Reduce, reuse, recycle
The most commonly used standard bag in our stores is made of recycled plastic. As our studies showed, this is the best choice from a lifecycle perspective. Recycled plastic bags require much less energy and water in production, and they also use less space in transport than for example paper bags. We do, however, also use paper bags in some markets where it is required. The paper originates from well-managed forests certified by FSC. All our bags are recyclable.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201269 of 93conSciou S action 5.4   
Recycle at least 95 percent of waste 
handled in our distribution centres 
The majority of our own waste is 
generated either by or sent to our distribution centres, where it is handled in accordance with our long-term goal of sending zero waste to landfill. This is also in line with our ambition to close the loop on all our waste.In 2012, 92 percent of the waste handled in our distribution centres was recycled. Our target for 2013 is a recycling rate of 95 percent.
We are also working to find good 
waste management solutions for all of our stores and offices. A challenge is the variety of different standards and practices on recycling, depend -
ing on the location. However, we will have particular focus on store waste in 2013. This includes continuing to find the best possible waste man-agement routines for our construc -
tion waste.
> hm.com/recyclingStarted more to do on track
time S cale 2013
Statu S 92 percent of waste handled in  
our distribution centres recycled
92%
of the waste  handled  
in our distribution 
centres was recycled
We use a range of recycled materials, such as recycled wool and polyester, to make clothes. The recycled poly -
ester is often made of PET plastic bottles. In 2012, the equivalent of about 7.9 million bottles was used. While further innovations will be needed to help recycled materials play a bigger commercial role, we believe that we can support this  
process by driving demand and showing that great design and recy -
cled fabrics are a perfect match. 
> hm.com/recyclingconSciou S action 5.3  
Further promote the innovation 
and use of recycled fabrics
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S recycled polyester equivalent to  
7.9 million PET bottles used 7.9
million PET bottles  
are equivalent to our use of 
recycled polyester
commI tment f Ive
Reduce, reuse, recycle
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201270 of 93to operate as a sustainable 
business, we are committed to conserving water, soil, air 
and species. We also try to inspire our customers, business partners and other stakeholders to help them use natural resources responsibly. From the water needed to grow cot -
ton, to the electricity used to light our stores we depend on natural resources throughout our value chain to do business. 
Competition for increasingly scarce 
resources tends to mean rising costs. Using resources efficiently only makes business sense and will increasingly be seen as a source of competitive advantage in our indus -
try and beyond. But more than that, we need to ensure to share these resources fairly with all users and consider the needs of both present and future generations.
Commitment six
Use natural resources  
responsibly
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201271 of 93
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT  SIx
Use natural resources responsiblySTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
6.1 Join forces with WWF for game-changing water stewardship strategy
6.2 Reduce water use in our stores, offices and distribution centres
6.3 Reduce impacts on natural resources by making conscious material choices
6.4 Promote water savings in garment production
6.5 Ensure compliance with BSR wastewater standards in supplier factories
6.6 Join forces for better water management in Bangladesh
6.7 Help to lead our industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals
6.8 Ban PFCs from all products
6.9 Continue to constantly review and update our chemical restrictions
6.10 Replace solvent-based polyurethane (PU) with water-based alternatives
6.11 Make the H&M catalogue out of sustainable paper– We signed a unique three-year 
water stewardship partnership with WWF that aims to be a game-changer for our industry and beyond. 
– We banned perfluorinated com -
pounds (PFCs) from all our products 
from 2013.
– We continued our work towards 
zero discharge of hazardous chemi -
cals and are happy to see that now several other fashion brands have joined the Roadmap to Zero.
– Our use of organic cotton and  
Better Cotton means over 140,000 kg fewer pesticides being used in  2012 alone.
 450 million litres  
of water  saved  in 
production of denim and other 
water-intense products More than 3 million 
litres  of rainwater 
harvested  in our 
distribution centres and stores100%  of the  paper used 
in the H&M catalogue is EU 
flower certifiedprogreSS  reportPerformance overview
100%  of cosmetic 
products made without 
animal testing– All the paper we use to print the H&M catalogue bears the EU flower eco-label. Additionally, we have now set a target to use only paper that is made from FSC-certified forests.commI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201272 of 93
Janet m enSink, i nternational  
program coordinator S uStai-
nable f aShion, Solidaridad  
network
What are the biggest environmen -
tal challenges in supplier factories 
from your perspective?The negative environmental aspects of wet processing (washing, dyeing, finishing) are relatively new on the sustainability agenda. Nevertheless, they have serious impact as can be seen very clearly in countries like Bangladesh and China. The impact includes overuse of water and energy and applications of hazard -
ous chemicals which are sometimes discharged to surface water without treatments.
How does H&M compare in  tackling these?H&M was one of the first brands to recognise this issue and develop pilot projects with its key suppliers. These projects cover training and support in factories to save water and energy and find alternatives for hazardous chemicals. The posi -
tive results of these projects made H&M decide to invest in scaling up in countries like Bangladesh and China and this way further clean up its supply chain.
H&M was one of the first brands to 
recognise the environmental impacts 
of wet processes.
Janet Mensink, International Program Coordinator Sustainable 
Fashion, Solidaridad Network ”commI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201273 of 93
According to UNEP, by 2025, two-
thirds of the world’s population will live in water-stressed areas. At the same time, water is an important resource in clothing production. About one-third of the factories that apply wet processes in the manufac -
turing of our clothes are locatead in areas that are forecast to be affected by extreme water scarcity by 2025. That’s why for more than 10 years, we have worked actively to reduce negative water impact in different parts of the value chain. 
Now, together with WWF, we are 
taking this to a whole different level. In a three-year partnership, we will work towards implementing a holis -
tic water stewardship strategy that aims to be a game-changer for our industry and beyond.During 2011 and 2012, we per -
formed a comprehensive evaluation of H&M’s existing efforts and chal -
lenges in connection to water with the WWF, identifying opportunities where we can have the biggest posi -
tive impact. This formed the base of our new water strategy, which includes over 30 water-connected activities along the entire textile value chain.
Starting already at the drawing-
table stage, our designers and buy -
ers will receive training on water impact of raw material production, as well as wet processes for different styles, to promote more sustain-able choices. WWF and H&M will work in collaboration with public 
conSciou S action 6.1   
Join forces with WWF for game-changing water stewardship strategy
Started more to do on track
time S cale 2015
Statu S game-changing partnership launched
This partnership marks an evolution 
in the corporate approach to water. We 
hope other companies will be inspired 
to take the same approach.
Jim Leape, Director General, WWF International”policy makers, NGOs, water institu -
tions and companies to support the 
better management of particular river basins in China and Bangla -
desh, improve our internal water efficiency, minimise our suppliers’ impact on water, train all our col -
leagues on water issues and inspire customers to use water responsibly. We will also support the WWF con-servation projects for water in the yangtze river basin in China.
This is the first global water part -
nership of its kind. We hope that it will inspire others to follow.
> hm.com/water
> wwf.orgcommI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201274 of 93Our direct operations have only 
minimal impact on water from a value chain perspective. This small impact notwithstanding, we want to set standards on best practice and reduce water use as much as pos -
sible. We apply water-saving tech -
niques wherever we can and have guidelines and requirements in place for example, low-flow taps. Our dis -
tribution centres in Hamburg, Ghlin and Madrid as well as a first store in the UK have rainwater-harvesting facilities in place. All together, we have harvested about 3 million litres of rainwater. 
> hm.com/waterStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S more than 3 million litres of rainwater 
harvested 16,694
bathtubs of 
rainwater  have 
been harvested and 
reusedconSciou S action  6.2  
Reduce water use in our stores,  
offices and distribution centresconSciou S action 6.3   
Reduce impact on natural resources by making conscious material choices
Conventional cotton and other natu -
ral fibres draw nutrients from the soil 
and may require a great deal of water, chemical pesticides and fertilisers. Conventional synthetic fibres are usually derived from fossil fuel that has limited availability.
Investing in more sustainable alterna -
tives over conventional fibres reduces 
multiple impacts on the environment and may help reduce or secure costs in the mid- and long-term. It also helps us secure the availability of the raw materials needed for our future growth in a sustainable way. 
> hm.com/consciousmaterials
> hm.com/climateStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S about 140,000 kg fewer pesticides used 
due to our use of more sustainable cotton
About 140,000 kg  
of pesticides fewer used 
due to our use of more 
sustainable cotton78
million bathtubs of 
water saved  through 
our use of Better 
Cotton  in 2012 aloneAlmost
water u Se 
diStribution 
centre S 
240,751 m3office S
69,720 m3
Extrapolations based on water use 
measured in 167 stores (6%), 3 of our 
biggest distribution centres and our 
Head Office.  commI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
Store S
1,701,176 m 3
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201275 of 93
We monitor water efficiency at sup -
plier factories, focusing on those 
located in water-scarce areas as defined by the WWF Water Risk  
Filter tool. We measure the use of water per kg of products made. While it can at times be a challenge to motivate suppliers to save in coun-tries where water is very inexpensive (e.g. Bangladesh), we complement the monitoring with dedicated pro -
jects to drive water savings in denim production and through our Cleaner Production programme.
Producing denim can be particularly 
water-intense to achieve the desired looks. We found that better processes can save about 30 percent of the water used. So in 2009, to reduce this impact, we set up a project with suppliers in Bangladesh, China and later also Pakistan.conSciou S action 6.4  
Promote water savings in garment production
As part of this, we looked into how these water-management improve -
ments could also help our suppli -
ers save water when making other water-intense products. Today, about 50 percent of all our denim is made using these techniques and we are working hard to apply these to more and more suppliers and product types. In 2012 alone, this reduced water usage by estimated 450 mil -
lion litres compared to conventional production processes.    
> hm.com/waterStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S estimated 450 million litres  
of water savedlitre S of water S aved in production
of water-inten Se S tyle S
2012 2011 2010450 
million 
litre S
300 
million 
litre S
50 
million 
litre S
Extrapolation based on average savings 
and order volumes.Supplier water efficiency  
litre S uSed per kg of clothing
Based on data submitted by 577 out of 618 appli-cable factories with in-house wastewater treatment.leSS 
than 100 
litre S 
per kg 
73.2%
100–200 
litre S 
per kg 
17.8% more 
than 200 
litre S 
9.0%
Better production processes 
can save up to 30% of the 
water used.”commI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
 450 million litres  
of water  saved  in 
production of denim and other 
water-intense products
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201276 of 93
conSciou S action 6.5   
Ensure compliance with BSR wastewater standards 
in supplier factories
Since 2006, factories with wet pro -
cesses such as dyeing or washing, 
have been required to treat their wastewater. Wastewater quality in our supply chain has to meet quality levels defined by Business for Social Respon-sibility (BSR) Water Group, or relevant local laws, depending on which are stricter. These requirements form part of our supplier audit programme. Water quality measures include organic and chemical pollution levels and suspended solids within the wastewater such as total suspended solids (TSS), biological oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD). The graph shows the ratio of supplier factories in the lowest threshold for each of these indicators measured against the BSR standard. The more factories there are in the lowest threshold, the better the result. The data show an increased propor -
tion of factories in the best thresh-old for all three measures, whilst the number of reporting factories has decreased. We will continue to monitor this development with relevant suppliers and, wherever needed, request dedicated action plans to improve performance. As part of the process to implement Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S compliance improved on all indicators
our new water strategy, in 2013 we plan to focus on strategic suppli -
ers in high-risk regions (identified through WWF Water Risk Filter) to further increase compliance and develop best practice examples and related tools to achieve full compliance.
> hm.com/water 
commI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
100%
50%% of S upplier S in be St thre Shold
on wa Stewater quality again St
bSr Standard S
Based on data submitted by 343 supplier factories.2011 2012 2010 2009 2008tSS bod cod
97.5%
83.2%
73.3%95.7%
78.6%
67.9%96.6%
77.8% 82.8%
76.3%78.8%93.3%
90.6%
73.4%
58.5%
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201277 of 93
conSciou S action 6.6   
Join forces for better water management in Bangladesh
Water efficiency and the quality of 
discharged wastewater are key chal -
lenges for the long-term viability and growth of the textile sector in general. This is especially relevant for Bangladesh, a country frequently threatened by floods while facing a growing scarcity of drinking water.
As part of our holistic water steward -
ship strategy, we have now broad -
ened the scope of the work previ -
ously part of our Cleaner Production 
Programme in Bangladesh. Once again, we are joining forces with our previous project partner, Solidari -
dad, in addition to a number of other brands and IFC (World Bank Group) in a programME called Bangladesh Water PaCT  (Partnership for Clean Textiles). This programme will have a broader reach targeting 500 factories with aligned methods and targets through the Bangladeshi textile sector. At the same time, the scope has been broadened in terms of its ambition and has now taken the challenge of zero discharge of hazardous chemicals into account.
The overarching objective is to 
reduce environmental and related social impact that results from prevailing practices in textile wet processing, particularly excessive ground water extraction and surface water pollution, whilst including energy and chemical use. Pro -
gramme results will improve the environmental impact of the textile sector in Bangladesh and strengthen its long-term competitiveness.
Working in partnership with buyers, 
solution providers, financial institu -
tions, donors, the government and other key stakeholders, the program will support textile factories and concentrated selected geographic clusters in order to reduce their water footprints. 
> hm.com/water
> ifc.org
Started more to do on track
time S cale from 2 012 onwards
Statu S new program launched targeting  
500 factoriescommI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201278 of 93
conSciou S action 6.7   
Help to lead our industry towards zero discharge 
of hazardous chemicals
Since 1995, we have been work -
ing to reduce the use of hazardous 
chemicals. As a leading actor with a well-reputed chemicals manage -
ment approach, we have the scale and ability to go beyond just ensur -
ing that our own products are safe.
We try to encourage change within 
our entire industry – a huge chal -
lenge, but one that we take very seriously. That is why in 2011 we teamed up with five other lead -
ing brands to develop a joint road -
map. We have also initiated a set of complementary individual actions. We have made good progress with both the joint roadmap as well as our H&M-specific action plan. The defined actions are well in line with our existing sustainability program and build on an extensive record of experiences and achievements. Accordingly, we can already report on progress against several of these actions points. Several more brands have joined the group since the launch with currently 10 brands on board.
Detailed benchmark studies will con-
tinue and results will be published on a dedicated website together with quarterly progress reports. 
In line with our action plan, we 
have added further transparency to our publicly-available chemical restriction list. We are currently working with the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE), an independent organisation in China, together with other brands and suppliers on the matter of discharge data disclosure. Acknowledging the ‘Right To Know’ principle, we encouraged and supported 11 stra -
tegic factories in China to publicly disclose discharge data through dedicated tools on IPE’s website. 
Additionally, we have conducted 
extensive benchmark studies includ -
ing in-depth chemical audits with all our strategic suppliers in China, India, Bangladesh and Cambodia.
We have continued to strengthen our 
existing chemical auditing as well as our work together with the group to develop a joint chemical audit tool, working to set a standard and achieve alignment within the industry. 
Parallel to further advancing our 
leading chemical management, we are integrating the concerned chem -
ical groups in our supplier training and dialogue. 
And as already announced indepen -
dently from our commitment to zero 
discharge, we have issued a full ban on PFCs for all our products and have made further progress in the replace -
ment of solvent-based polyurethane with water-based alternatives.
> hm.com/zerodischarge
> roadmaptozero.com
> ipe.org.cn
> greenpeace.org/detoxStarted more to do on track
time S cale 2020
Statu S first strategic suppliers to disclose 
discharge datacommI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
”Our first suppliers 
started to disclose 
their discharge 
data.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201279 of 93conSciou S action 6.8  
Ban PFCs from all productsconSciou S action 6.9   
Continue to constantly review and 
update our chemical restrictions
Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) 
are commonly used to make water-repellent products such as raincoats. Unfortunately, they are persistent and bio-accumulative, meaning that if discharged into the environment they remain for a long time. Once released into the envi -
ronment, they can harm the repro -
duction of organisms.
For many years we have been work -
ing to replace PFCs with better 
alternatives. 
In 2010, after five years of hard work 
sourcing and testing alternatives, we introduced our first products made with a treatment called ‘Bionic fin-ish’ which proved to be a good PFC-free alternative. Since then, we have continued to work closely with our suppliers to find additional alterna -tives helping us to bring PFC-free innovations to scale.
From 1 January 2013, PFCs were 
banned from all our products glob -
ally. This means that all orders placed from 1 January or later have been produced without PFCs. 
The current alternatives fulfil our 
demands for water repellent prod -
ucts and have satisfactory environ -
mental and health properties. They can be used on all present fabric qualities in our range.
> hm.com Started more to do achieved
time S cale 2013
Statu S ban valid from 2013 onwards
We restrict hazardous chemicals through our restrictions list, which all suppliers are contractually bound to comply with. Our Chemi -
cal Restrictions list has been con-tinually updated since 1995, most recently in 2012. It now contains more than 360 restricted sub -
stances. Our restrictions are some of the most stringent in the industry and and often go well beyond legisla -
tive demands. As stated in our Sustainability Policy, we apply the Precautionary Principle. This means that we are proactive in restricting chemicals, even if there is still scientific uncertainty about whether they are harmful. To ensure this, we always keep ourselves up to date on the latest developments and consider information from authori -
ties, NGOs and scientific reports. Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S updated restriction list publishedWe made the restrictions list public many years ago. In 2012, we published an updated restriction list now also disclosing restriction levels for all non-textile products, for example, cosmetics.
> hm.com/chemicals
29,813
third-party product 
chemical tests  
performed by H&M alone
commI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201280 of 93conSciou S action 6.10   
Replace solvent-based polyurethane (PU) 
with water-based alternativesconSciou S action 6.11   
Make the H&M catalogue out of sustainable paper
Handling solvent-based chemicals 
can be harmful to workers, so we aim to phase out their use in the production of our products wherever technically feasible. In cooperation with the chemical company Bayer, we conducted trials to convert tra -
ditional solvent-based polyurethane (PU) material into water-based PU. We tested a range of alternatives that could be used for different product types and styles. The first results were very promising, but ensuring quality and scalability remains a challenge. In 2012, we launched the first products made with water-based PU and we will continue to work to find solutions that can meet our requirements to scale this up.
Started more to do on track
time S cale 2014
Statu S first products launchedWe sell clothes and accessories through mail order catalogues and online sales in eight different mar -
kets. For several years, our cata -
logues have been printed on paper that bears the EU flower eco-label, which stands for environmentally conscious production processes and limited water impact. In the com -
ing year, we want to ensure that the paper we use is made from FSC certified forests.Started more to do on track
time S cale 2013
Statu S new target setcommI tment s Ix
Use natural resources responsibly
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 2012
81 of 93
Commitment seven
Strengthen communities
 we are a part of many com -
munities around the world. 
The way we do business, 
our values and our growth have an impact on their development and affect more than one million jobs glob -
ally. As such, we have both an inter -
est and a responsibility to strengthen these communities. That is why we invest in projects that benefit com -
munities and at the same time address social and environmental issues that are important to our business.We want to invest in long-term collaborations that deliver lasting results. We contribute to these pro -
jects financially, with our time and in-kind donations. In addition, we engage our customers in some of our community projects through cause-related products and additional in-store donations. We also provide support in cases of major disasters and regularly donate clothes to those in need.
Our community investment projects 
support improvements along our value chain, with special focus on employment, education and health, particularly for women and youth, as well as water. 
All in all, we want to give back 
and create shared value. With our size, we have the opportunity and the responsibility to drive positive change for people and the environ-ment across our entire operations. Through strategic investments we can create win-win situations for us as a company and for our society as a whole.
That is why in 2012, together with 
the H&M Conscious Foundation, we provided a total of SEK 42 mil -
lion (appr. USD 6.3/EUR 5 million) for our community projects and emergency relief. Our customers provided additional SEK 5.3 million (appr. USD 800,000/EUR 600,000) through in-store giving.   
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201282 of 93
highlight S from 2012
COMMITMENT  SEvEN
Strengthen communitiesSTATUS
CONSCIOUS ACTION STARTED MORE TO DOON TRACK /
ACHIE vED
7.1 Continue to create and contribute to employment opportunities
7.2 Engage our customers in our work to strengthen communities
7.3 Empower through education
7.4 Extend our All for Children project in collaboration with UNICEF to Bangladesh
7.5 Improve health conditions of people along our value chain 
7.6 Invest in better livelihood for cotton farmers
7.7 Donate garments to support people in need
7.8 Provide emergency relief for Syrian refugees– Our continued growth created 
7,402 additional jobs around the world (net, full-time equivalent). Additionally, our business contrib -
utes to job opportunities for more than 1.3 million people employed by our suppliers.
– We extended our existing All for 
Children program with UNICEF to now also include Bangladesh. With a volume of almost USD 8 million, this marks our biggest single com -
munity investment to date. 
– About SEK 42 million (approx. 
USD 6.3 million/EUR 5 million) invested in communities and their support by H&M and the H&M  Conscious Foundation. 
More than 
430,000 people  
along our value chain have been 
empowered  by education More than 3.2 million 
garments donated   
to charitable  causes  More than 6 million 
people  along our value 
chain have been helped  
to better health 
conditions
 Around 150,000 cotton farmers  
trained in better farming techniques 
through the Better Cotton InitiativeprogreSS  reportPerformance overview
– Additionally, more than SEK 5.3 million (approx. USD 800,000/EUR 600,000) was raised amongst our cus -
tomers through in-store donations.Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201283 of 93
paScale v illeneuve, r epre Sen-
tative, unicef b anglade Sh
Why is education so important?
Quality education is a basic human right. Besides, education benefits both the individual who receives it and the society as a whole. But for many children in Bangladesh this right has not yet become a reality. Children living in urban slums are amongst the worst off. In slums there is three times more child labour, only one in five children is enrolled in sec -
ondary school and the rates of school dropout and repetition are very high even compared to rural areas.
What difference does your col -
laboration with H&M make in 
countries like Bangladesh?Bangladesh has achieved com -
mendable progress in early child -
hood care and development by introducing day care centres, early learning centres and preschools. However, there are children who are either out of school or in school, but at risk of dropping out. UNICEF’s partnership with H&M will help to strengthen the qual -
ity of early learning, pre-primary, basic primary education, basic life skills and social protection ser -
vices. In the years to come, this will contribute to overall poverty reduction and help improve the livelihood of vulnerable families.
In the years to come, 
UNICEF’s partnership 
with H&M will contribute 
to overall poverty reduc -
tion and help improve the 
livelihood of vulnerable 
families.
Pascale v illeneuve, Representative,  
UNICEF Bangladesh”
Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
Stakeholder Voice
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201284 of 93
We are a growing company. Our aim 
is to increase our number of stores by 10 to 15 percent each year. In 2012 alone, we created more than 7,402 new full-time equivalent jobs net.
Over the last five years, our growth 
has entailed a net creation of more than 25,000 full-time equivalent jobs globally. Additionally, our business contributes to job opportunities for more than 1.3 million people employed by our suppliers. While the economic climate is challenging in many countries, we are confident that we will create further employ -
ment both in our own operations and throughout our value chain.conSciou S action  7.1  
Continue to create and contribute to employment opportunities
Started more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S 7,402 additional jobs created (full-time 
equivalent)
7,402
full-time equivalent  
jobs created  (net)  
in 2012
Job creation (net) 2008–2012
(full- time e quivalent)
7,402
5,4345,964
466,401
 2008 2009 2010 2011 201225,247
Total  
job creation  (net) 
2008–20121,349,955
people employed   
by our suppliers
Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201285 of 93
As part of our commitment to pro -
vide fashion for conscious custom -
ers, we offer our customers products 
with added sustainability value. One way we do this is to offer cause-related products and collections. 
It is important for us to enable our 
customers to engage in our com -
munity projects and offer them the opportunity to be a part of the solu -
tion. It is also important for us to be transparent and make our customers aware of the issues that are impor -
tant to us. We engage our customers in supporting community projects and help raise awareness of the issues they address. 
In recent years, we have developed 
a set of recurring collections called ‘Fashion Against Aids’, ‘H&M for Water’ and ‘All for Children.’ conSciou S action 7.2   
Engage our customers in our work to strengthen communities
25 percent of the net sales from these collections are invested in related projects. In 2012, these projects helped us raise over SEK 24 million (USD 3.6 million/EUR 2.8 million). We also encourage our customers to get involved through direct donations made in our stores, for example during the holiday period or in the case of major catastrophes. In 2012, our custom -
ers donated about SEK 5.3 million (approximately USD 800,000/EUR 600,000).
> hm.com/communitiesStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S approx. USD 800,000 in direct dona -
tions generated from our customers in storesThank you so much to 
H&M and their custo -
mers for being part of the solution to help poor communities.
Marcus Missen,  
Director of Fundraising, WaterAid”800,000
in direct donations  
generated amongst our 
customers  in storesAbout USD
 More than 1 million  people have been  
reached through our All for Children  programme 
together with UNICEF  since 2009
Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201286 of 93conSciou S action 7.3   
Empower through education
The right to education is a univer -
sally recognised human right and 
a prerequisite for sustainable devel -
opment and prosperity. Our commu -
nity investments are largely in aid of education and employment with a particular focus on women and youth along our value chain.
Access to education allows us to 
extend our efforts to improve work -
ing conditions and the lives of people along our value chain as well as support their personal development and their communities. Our cur -
rent initiatives include our All for Children projects in Bangladesh and India and our Bangladesh Develop -
ment Plan. During 2012, these pro -
jects empowered more than 430,000 people with better education.
> hm.com/communitiesStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S more than 430,000 people reachedconSciou S action 7.4   
Extend our All for Children project in  
collaboration with UNICEF to Bangladesh
Bangladesh is one of our major 
sourcing markets. It is also one of the poorest countries in the world, with 60 million children living below the international poverty line. Our presence in the country contributes to economic growth and we have a number of initiatives to further improve the development and the lives of people such as our Bangla -
desh Development Plan. 
Taking this another step further, 
we have now extended our existing All for Children collaboration with UNICEF to include Bangladesh. The programme will run from 2012 to 2017 to support children and their families in poor areas around the capital, Dhaka. The projects are reaching out to more than 1 million people with a focus on about 40,000 children in order to support them in proceeding to a higher education. With an investment of almost USD 8 million, this move also marks our biggest single community invest -
ment to date.
> hm.com/allforchildren Started more to do on track
time S cale 2017
Statu S new project launched 430,000
people  along our 
value chain have been 
empowered  by 
educationMore than
 42 million  
(approx. USD 6.3 million)  
invested  in 
communities  and  
their support by H&M and  
the H&M Conscious  
FoundationSEK
Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201287 of 93
conSciou S action 7.5   
Improve health conditions of people along our value chain
Health is a human right and crucial 
for the sustainable development of communities all over the world. We want to contribute and sup -
port health projects allowing us to extend our efforts to benefit people’s lives and their working conditions. 
Initiatives such as our Bangladesh 
Development Plan, H&M for Water, Fashion Against Aids, All for Chil -
dren and a number of projects sup -
ported by the H&M Conscious Foun-dation reached more than 6 million people during 2012 to improve their health conditions.
> hm.com/communitiesStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S about 6 million people reachedH&M has continued to be 
a very strong supporter 
of WaterAid and continues 
to generously donate to our projects in Bangladesh, 
India and Pakistan. Without 
this essential funding we would not be able to help 
poor communities to begin 
their journey to poverty alleviation. 
Marcus Missen,  
Director of Fundraising, WaterAid”About 6 million  people 
along our value chain have 
been helped to better 
health conditions
Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201288 of 93conSciou S action 7.6   
Invest in better livelihood for cotton farmers
We are a leading member of the Bet -
ter Cotton Initiative (BCI). Better 
Cotton is an essential part of our efforts to use only more sustainable cotton by 2020. 
Besides the environmental benefits 
of a shift from conventional cotton to Better Cotton, this change can also improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of farmers. 
Through BCI’s implementation part -
ners, WWF and Solidaridad, farmers 
receive the know-how and tools to produce more with less input, reduc -
ing their impact on the environment while also increasing their profit -
ability and the welfare of the local communities. 
About 150,000 farmers received 
dedicated training during 2012. We have directly invested EUR 600,000 in these training projects each year in 2010 and 2011. A further EUR 850,000 is committed for 2013. This helps us increase the production of Better Cotton in line with our demands for the 2012 and 2013 production seasons.
> hm.com/communities
> bettercotton.orgStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S about 150,000 farmers trained in better 
farming techniques
Growing Better Cotton, I now enjoy higher 
profits and better health in a better environ -
ment. It’s now time that all farmers, from my village, my state and my country enjoy the same benefits. 
Kare y adhareddy, cotton farmer from Andra Pradesh, India”Around    150,000
cotton farmers  were trained  
in better farming  techniques 
through the Better Cotton Initiative
amount inve Sted
directly by h &m into bci
farmer training
2013  2012 2011EUR
850,000 
(planned)
EUR
600,000 EUR
600,000
Strengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201289 of 93conSciou S action 7.7   
Donate garments to support 
people in need
Each year, H&M donates large quanti -
ties of clothes to aid organisations in 
the countries in which we operate. We introduced an updated garment dona -
tion policy and implementation guid -
ance in 2010. Our policy states that all unsold, safe-to-use products should be donated to charity or, if possible, recycled into something useful. 
In 2012, we donated more than 
3.2 million garments globally to aid organisations.
> hm.com/communitiesStarted more to do on track
time S cale ongoing
Statu S more than 3.2 million garments 
donated to charitable causes
3.2
million  garments  
donated  to 
charitable  causes More thanconSciou S action 7.8   
Provide emergency relief for  
Syrian refugees
Hundreds of thousands of refugees 
from Syria are currently living in refugee camps, including an esti -
mated 68,000 children in Turkey alone. Most of them live in provi -
sional tents. With temperatures dropping close to zero degrees Cel -
sius in many of their locations, our partner UNICEF alerted us about the urgent need for items such as blankets, insulation material and warm clothing. Emergency situa -
tions like this require quick action and we decided to immediately donate USD 100,000 to UNICEF Tur -
key. With this amount, UNICEF can provide about 2,700 children with warm winter clothing.
> hm.com/communities 
> unicef.orgStarted more to do achieved
time S cale 2012
Statu S USD 100,000 donatedUSD100,000
donated to UNICEF to support 
refugees  from SyriaStrengthen communitiescommI tment seven
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 2012
90 of 93
How we report
We are committed to trans -
parent reporting on sustain -
ability and the progress we 
make towards meeting our seven commitments.
H&M’s Conscious Actions 
Sustainability Report, which is produced annually, covers material sustainability strategies, activities and performance for the global Group operations of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, including all its brands (H&M, COS, Weekday, Monki, Cheap Monday, & Other Stories) as well as its wholly or partially-owned subsidiaries globally during our financial year from 1 December 2011 to 30 November 2012, unless stated otherwise. Unless stated, franchise operations are not included. Due to significant interest from many of our stakeholders, we also include material data on our first-tier and second-tier suppliers (generated by H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB through audits or submitted by third parties). 
Additional information is provided at 
hm.com/conscious as well as in our financial and corporate governance reporting. Our most recent previous report was published in April 2012.
We are signatories to the UN 
Global Compact, and our annual Sustainability Report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP).
All data is collected by our 
sustainability team from the relevant functions within our organisation and from external parties. It is reviewed by our controllers and relevant experts in our sustainability team.
Unless otherwise specified, all data 
concerning suppliers and supplier factories includes all suppliers and factories that were approved for production during the reporting period. Factories included in our scope are first-tier manufacturing or processing (i.e. washing or dyeing), factories that are owned or subcontracted by our suppliers as well as (where stated) selected second-tier suppliers and suppliers for non-commercial goods (such as store interior suppliers).
Please note that currency conversions from SEK to other currencies are approximate figures based on the conversion rate on 30 November 2012. Exact figures are provided in SEK only.
proce SS for defining 
SuStainability report content
The materiality of this report has been defined by a yearly process where we collect information from a multitude of sources, covering a broad range of our diverse stakeholders. For example, we conduct regular systematic stakeholder dialogues and engage with stakeholders on a day-to-day basis. We perform regular media analysis as well as customer and employee surveys. Our dedicated Business Intelligence Group gathers related information and together with our sustainability experts and concerned key functions identifies and sets the priorities for our sustainability work. This process translates into our Conscious Actions. Included in this report are those Conscious Actions that, based on above processes, have been identified as most material to our broad range of stakeholders.
In preparing this report we aimed 
to balance carefully between their different needs. This includes detailed performance data and strategy descriptions, while we aim to make information accessible for a wider audience including interested customers and colleagues.
A variety of stakeholder comments has 
been included in this report. These were collected during autumn 2012. 
global r eporting i nitiative  
(gri )
We use the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We have included the indicators from the pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement but have not included them in our self-assessment rating as they have not yet been finalised. H&M’s disclosure level against the GRI G3.1 framework is B (self-declared). you can find the detailed GRI index 
at hm.com/gri.Informat Ion
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201291 of 93
Informat Ion
to the m anagement of  
h & m h enne S & m aurit Z ab
We have been engaged by the man-
agement of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (H & M) to perform a limited review on the information in H&M’s Sustainability Report 2012 with regard to the following indicators referred to in the GRI index that can be found in the GRI index 2012:
– Supply Chain: Incidents of non-
compliance with Code of Conduct, p. 32-33 (AF14)– Materials: Materials used by weight or volume, p. 19, (EN1, limited to use of cotton)– Energy: Direct energy consump -
tion by primary source, p. 61 (EN3)– Energy: Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. 60 (EN16)
H & M’s Sustainability Report 2012 
covers the period 1 December 2011 to 30 November 2012.management’ S reSpon Sibility
The Management of H&M is respon-sible for ongoing activities and for preparing and presenting the Sus -
tainability Report in accordance with the reporting criteria as set out in the company’s own report -
ing guidelines as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Guide -
lines 3.1 (G3).
auditor’ S reSpon Sibility
Our responsibility is to carry out a limited review engagement and, based on our work performed, to express an independent conclu -
sion on the above specified indica -
tors in the Sustainability Report. The selection of indicators to be reviewed has been made by the management of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB. We do not accept, nor assume responsibility to anyone else, except to H & M for our work, for the limited assurance report, or for the conclusion that we have reached. We have conducted the limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage -
ments (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Finan-cial Information.’ The ISAE 3000 standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engage -
ment to obtain limited assurance on whether any matters have come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the above speci -
fied information in the Sustainabil -
ity Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accord -
ance with the reporting criteria.
A limited review is provided only 
on the information disclosed in the Conscious Actions Sustain-ability Report 2012, not on infor -
mation linked to and disclosed on other web pages. We have not been engaged to provide assurance on amounts or other disclosures relat -
ing to the prior reporting periods presented in the Sustainability Report. The information in the Sustainability Report is subject to inherent limitations applying to data accuracy and completeness, which are to be taken into account when reading our review report. The pre -sented information in the Sustain-ability Report is to be considered in connection with the explanatory information on data collection, con -
solidation and assessments provided by H&M. This independent review report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting H&M’s performance in relation to its prin-ciples of corporate responsibility.
Our review procedures are designed 
to obtain limited assurance on whether the above specified indica -
tors are presented in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1 (G3) in all material respects. A limited review engage -
ment consists of making inquiries, primary of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainabil -
ity Report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering proce -
dures, as appropriate. The evidence gathering procedures mentioned above are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assur -
ance engagement.
Auditor’s Review Report on specified information in 
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB’s Sustainability Report
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201292 of 93
Informat Ion
We have performed, amongst other 
things, the following procedures:
– interviews with the responsible 
management, at Group level in order to assess if the qualitative and quan-titative information stated in the Sustainability Report regarding the above specified indicators is com -
plete, accurate and sufficient,
– shared internal and external 
documents in order to assess if the information shared in the Sustain-ability Report  is complete, accurate and sufficient,
– an evaluation of the design of 
the systems and processes used to obtain, manage and validate sustain-ability information,
– an evaluation of the model used 
to calculate CO2 emissions,
– analytical procedures regarding 
the above-specified indicators.conclu Sion
Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information regarding the above specified indicators in the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the reporting crite -
ria stated above.
Stockholm, 13 March 2013
Ernst & y oung AB
  
Erik Åström   
Authorized Public Accountant
Charlotte Söderlund
Authorized Public Accountant  
Auditor’s Review Report on specified information in 
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB’s Sustainability Report
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 201293 of 93
more information
To find out more about H&M 
Conscious and our policies and 
strategies, read case studies, 
watch videos and much more, 
please visit: hm.com/conscious.
contact
We appreciate your feedback. 
Please send your questions or 
comments regarding this report to hendrik.alpen@hm.com.Get in touchInformat Ion
Thank you for taking time to learn about H&M Conscious.
H&m consc Ious act Ions susta Inab IlIty report 2012