Corporate
soCial
responsibility
report 2005
Dear Reader,
We appreciate the positive response to our previous reports, and 
I would like to thank all of you who have provided us with valuable 
feedback. Many suggestions made by our stakeholders on last year’s 
report have been incorporated in this report and we hope you will 
find the reading even more interesting and relevant this time.  
The main focus in this report is a thorough description of our first 
trials using our new FAP (Full Audit Programme) methods and tools. 
Responding to the demands for audit results we are also reporting on 
the results from those few first FAP audits, having spent considerable 
time to manually collect the statistics. Our ambition next year, given 
that our new reporting tool is up and running by then, is to report all 
FAP results from 2006. We are very satisfied with the early results 
from using our FAP methodology. We strongly feel that we are on the 
right path towards sustainable improvements albeit it will in some 
cases be a slow process.
There seems to be a consensus that multi-stakeholder initiatives 
are the flavour of the year. We describe in this report some of the 
various initiatives H&M are participating in, such as Better Factories 
Cambodia, MFA Forum Bangladesh and H&M’s decision to partici -
pate in the FLA. We already see several benefits from these joint 
initiatives and believe that cooperation is the right way forward.
Viewing the introduction of FAP and participation in joint initia -
tives as some of the success stories this year, we can note that we 
have not met the mark when it comes to reduction of carbon dioxide 
 emissions. However, we have set a five year target, and changes are 
taking place that we believe will have an effect already next year on reducing energy consumption. Thanks to 
 setting a target, we now have this issue in focus.  
In the next couple of years we will work on 
ways to reduce the emissions from transport, 
in particular air and sea-air transport. We can 
also note that a substantial part of the increase 
comes from improved data collection and inclu -
sion of several points of departure that were not previously included.
As anticipated, the ending of the Multi-Fibre Agreement did not 
have a major impact on H&M’s sourcing patterns. Bangladesh, one 
of the countries many feared would be losing business has instead 
been a growth market for H&M during 2005. We have also had a 
strong CSR focus in Bangladesh and we report on various promising 
initiatives taken there.
Environmental impacts of cotton farming are in focus as we are 
moving into 2006. We had set a target of using at least 20 tonnes of 
organic cotton in 2005; the actual consumption was more than 40 
tonnes. We have not set a fixed target for 2006 but we are looking 
at various strategies to gradually increase our yearly consumption 
of organic cotton. We are also participating in the recently started 
Better Cotton Initiative, briefly introduced in the report.
Ingrid Schullström
CSR managerStockholm 2 April 2006
OUR BUSINESS
This section covers basic facts about cor -
porate social responsibility (CSR) and H&M. 
We describe our CSR vision and strategy, 
as well as the main aspects of our responsi -
bility. We also provide information about our 
company, products and employees.
 5 CSR in 2005: Highlights
 6 Statement from our managing director
 7 CSR vision and strategy
 8 Main responsibility aspects
 9 Our business concept
 10 Our purchasing process
 11 Our employees
 13 Safety at H&M
 16 Governance structure
 19 CSR organisation 
 20 Corporate memberships
 21 Sustainability ratingsOUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
In this section, we describe this year’s 
social performance and activities, including 
results from FAP audits. We also explain the 
challenges that we face in various coun -
tries of production, as well as our working 
methods. There is also information about 
remediation projects, our quality work and 
community involvement.
It is essential for us to understand what 
our stakeholders expect from us. This sec -
tion includes feedback on our CSR report -
ing from representatives of four significant 
stakeholder groups. 
 23  Addressing supply chain working 
 conditions
 24 Monitoring our supply chain
 29 Supply chain close-up
 33  Factory monitoring in 2005
 38  Towards sustainable improvements
 41  Stakeholder engagement
 41  Cooperation for change
 43  Listening to our stakeholders
 49  Community involvement and charity
 53  Product responsibility
 58  Communications and marketing
 60  Social targets 2005: Fulfilment
 61  Social targets 2006OUR ENVIRONMENTAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
This section is also divided into two main 
parts. The first part describes our policies 
and organisation. The second part gives 
an account of projects in the environmental 
area and environmental performance.
 63  Environmental management
 66  Environmental activities and 
 performance
 66  Environmental projects
 70  Environmental performance
 74  Environmental targets 2005: Fulfilment
 75  Environmental targets 2006 and 
onwards
ANNEX
 77  About this report
 78  GRI content index
 79  Carbon dioxide emissions:  
Data acquisitionCONTENTSH&M
oUr bUsiness
This section covers basic facts about corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) and H&M. We describe our CSR vision 
and strategy, as well as the main aspects of our responsibility. 
We also provide information about our company, products 
and employees.
 CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   5
n  We began auditing our suppliers’ and their subcontractors’ 
 factories in accordance with the Full Audit Programme (FAP), our 
new method for factory monitoring. Read more about FAP  on 
page 24.
n  H&M was accepted as a participating company of the Fair Labor 
Association (FLA). The FLA will conduct independent external 
monitoring visits at some of our suppliers’ factories in China. 
Read more about the FLA on page 40.
n  H&M joined several multi-stakeholder initiatives during the year: 
Better Factories Cambodia, MFA Forum Bangladesh, and the 
Better Cotton initiative. Read more on page 41 and 69. 
n  We asked representatives of four significant stakeholder groups 
to provide feedback on our CSR reporting. Their statements can 
be found on page 43. 
n  Our chemical restrictions were updated for the sixth time since 
1995. More information about our quality work is available on 
page 53. 
n  We increased our use of organic cotton from five tonnes in 2004 
to more than 40 tonnes in 2005. Read more about our environ -
mental work on page 63. Csr in 2005: H iGHliGHts
	 CSR 	 2005 	–	OUR 	 BUSINESS   
STATEMENT FROM OUR  
MANAGING DIRECTOR
CSR	 at 	 H&M 	 is 	 a 	 process 	 that 	 never 	 ends. 	 We 	
are	continuously 	 reviewing 	 our 	 work 	 and 	 we 	
discuss, 	 both 	 internally 	 and 	 with 	 our 	 stakehold -
ers,	how 	 we 	 can 	 improve 	 further. 	 However, 	 the 	
most 	 important 	 thing 	 is 	 that 	 we 	 do 	 not 	 stop 	 at 	
talking; 	 action 	 is 	 what 	 it 	 takes 	 to 	 reach 	 results. 	
This	 report 	 demonstrates 	 how 	 H&M 	 takes 	 its 	
commitment 	 to 	 CSR 	 seriously, 	 not 	 just 	 in 	 words 	
but	in 	 actions 	 and 	 that 	 we 	 do 	 achieve 	 results. 	
During 	 2005, 	 I 	 met 	 with 	 our 	 Code 	 of 	 Conduct 	
auditing 	 team 	 in 	 Bangladesh, 	 and 	 I 	 was 	
impressed 	 by 	 their 	 commitment 	 and 	 their 	 enthu -
siasm. 	 They 	 come 	 from 	 varying 	 backgrounds 	
and	they 	 all 	 bring 	 their 	 special 	 knowledge 	 to 	
their	 team. 	 Far 	 away 	 from 	 the 	 fashion 	 world 	 and 	
the	H&M 	 stores 	 they, 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 their 	 colleagues 	
around 	 the 	 world, 	 make 	 a 	 very 	 important 	 contri -
bution 	 to 	 H&M’s 	 success. 	
Looking 	 back 	 at 	 the 	 events 	 of 	 2005, 	 it 	 is 	
easy 	 to 	 remember 	 the 	 remarkable 	 fashion 	
show 	 in 	 Central 	 Park, 	 the 	 opening 	 of 	 our 	 first 	
store 	 in 	 San 	 Francisco, 	 or 	 the 	 success 	 of 	 our 	
collection 	 by 	 Stella 	 McCartney. 	 But 	 there 	 is 	
another 	 memory 	 that 	 stands 	 out 	 as 	 a 	 very 	 proud 	
moment; 	 my 	 visit 	 to 	 H&M’s 	 training 	 centre 	 in 	
Dhaka. 	 Understanding 	 the 	 difference 	 that 	 the 	
education 	 provided 	 by 	 H&M 	 makes 	 in 	 the 	 lives 	 of 	
our	trainees 	 and 	 their 	 family 	 was, 	 to 	 say 	 the 	 least, 	
moving. 	
H&M 	 is 	 a 	 company 	 with 	 values 	 rooted 	 in 	 a 	 tra-
dition 	 of 	 dialogue 	 and 	 respect 	 for 	 other 	 perspec -
tives 	 than 	 our 	 own. 	 This 	 has 	 become 	 an 	 asset 	 in 	our	contacts 	 with 	 trade 	 unions, 	 NGOs, 	 investors 	
and	other 	 organisations 	 with 	 opinions 	 about 	 how 	
well	H&M 	 is 	 performing 	 in 	 the 	 field 	 of 	 CSR. 	 Some 	
of	their 	 voices 	 are 	 heard 	 in 	 this 	 report. 	 However, 	
exchange 	 of 	 opinions 	 is 	 not 	 enough. 	 We 	 have 	
learned 	 through 	 our 	 own 	 experience 	 that 	 we 	 can 	
reach 	 better 	 results 	 in 	 cooperation 	 with 	 others. 	
Our	decision 	 to 	 join 	 the 	 Fair 	 Labor 	 Association 	
from 	 2006 	 was 	 based 	 on 	 that 	 insight. 	
Finally, 	 and 	 on 	 a 	 personal 	 note, 	 I 	 would 	 like 	
to	make 	 a 	 few 	 reflections 	 on 	 the 	 environment. 	 I 	
have 	 grand 	 children, 	 and 	 their 	 future 	 health 	 and 	
quality 	 of 	 life 	 depend 	 on 	 our 	 decisions 	 today. 	
It	may 	 sound 	 as 	 a 	 bit 	 of 	 a 	 cliché, 	 but 	 never 	 the 	
less	it 	 is 	 true 	 that 	 each 	 and 	 every 	 one 	 of 	 us 	 has 	
a	responsibility 	 towards 	 future 	 generations. 	 This 	
responsibility 	 we 	 have 	 to 	 incorporate 	 in 	 our 	 daily 	
decisions 	 at 	 home 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 at 	 the 	 workplace. 	
I	would 	 like 	 to 	 end 	 this 	 letter 	 with 	 my 	 message 	
to	every 	 H&M 	 employee 	 and 	 to 	 all 	 of 	 H&M’s 	
suppliers. 	 Together 	 we 	 can 	 reduce 	 H&M’s 	 nega -
tive	impact 	 on 	 the 	 environment, 	 and 	 we 	 have 	 a 	
responsibility 	 to 	 the 	 coming 	 generations 	 to 	 do 	
so.	Therefore 	 we 	 are 	 committed 	 to 	 our 	 environ -
mental 	 policy 	 and 	 to 	 the 	 targets 	 we 	 have 	 set 	 to 	
reduce 	 H&M’s 	 impact 	 on 	 the 	 environment.
Rolf	Eriksen
 CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   7
Csr Vision  anD strate Gy
Csr vision
H&M’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) vision is to uphold 
human rights, contribute to sustainable development, and thereby 
earn trust from our stakeholders.
Csr strategy
H&M’s business strategy is to continue to grow whilst maintaining 
good profitability. H&M believes that long-term profitability and 
good relations with the world around depend on us taking respon -
sibility for how people and the environment are affected by our 
activities. 
Our environmental policy sums up H&M’s general strategy on 
corporate social responsibility: 
“Continuous improvements are significant for all H&M activi -
ties. This includes our environmental and social efforts, which are 
conducted within the framework of our business operations. H&M’s 
business concept is to give our customers unsurpassed value by 
offering fashion and quality at the best price. Our quality concept 
is based on ensuring that our customers are satisfied with our 
products and H&M as a company. To this end, we are committed 
to acting responsibly in our community. We will also cooperate with 
our suppliers to improve the social and environmental standards in 
the factories that manufacture H&M clothing, thereby contributing 
to sustainable development in these areas.” nCorporate so Cial responsibility
H&M defines CSR as “a concept whereby companies 
integrate social and environmental concern in their business 
operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders 
on a voluntary basis in order to meet or exceed the ethical, 
legal, commercial, and public expectations that society has 
of business”. CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   8
Main responsibility  aspe Cts
H&M has identified a number of responsibility aspects that we 
consider the most pressing within our industry, especially with 
regard to our supply chain.
social aspects 
H&M does not own or operate any factories. We work together with 
approximately 700 suppliers1, who in turn use subcontractors2. In 
all, about 2,000 production units3 and more than 700,000 people 
around the world are involved in the production of our goods. More 
than half of these production units are located in countries where 
human rights violations exist, and where labour standards are not 
fully observed. 
Our risk assessments as well as several years of experience 
in monitoring garment factories has shown that the main aspects 
are violations of laws concerning working hours and wages. Other 
pressing issues, although less common, are compulsory overtime, 
restrictions on the right to organise, physical and verbal abuse, and 
sexual harassment. Unclear employment conditions, exploitation 
of migrant workers and use of child labour are other examples of 
violations that occasionally occur.
In our Code of Conduct, we make it clear that we do not accept 
any of these violations, and since we began monitoring factories, 
the conditions have improved substantially. However, many chal -
lenges still lie ahead, and we believe that it is important that we 
as a buyer work together with our suppliers in order to achieve 
progress. environmental aspects
Conventional cultivation of cotton as well as dyeing and process -
ing of fabrics have substantial environmental effects. Examples 
of issues arising in garment production are energy consumption, 
water pollution and chemical handling. H&M’s Code of Conduct 
includes environmental requirements, and in recent years we have 
taken steps to address issues further down the supply chain. Read 
more about the cleaner production programme on page 66, and 
about organic cotton on page 68. 
Transportation of H&M goods accounts for about 50 per cent 
of total carbon dioxide emissions caused by H&M operations. It is 
therefore vital for H&M, in cooperation with our transport service 
providers, to aim for more environmentally adapted transport. 
At the end of 2005, H&M operated 1,193 stores and 14 distribu -
tion centres. H&M uses considerable amounts of materials and 
other resources when building and re-building stores. We aim to 
limit the environmental effects by establishing requirements for 
our property owners and contractors. Furthermore, the operation 
of our stores results in waste from packaging, hangers, decorative 
materials, disposable materials etc. We strive to reduce waste and 
re-use and recycle waste material whenever possible. 
Health and safety aspects
All our suppliers have signed an agreement to abide by H&M’s 
chemical restrictions. In this way, we contribute to the reduction of 
environmental harm during the manufacture of our goods as well 
as during the disposal of worn out clothing. Due to continuously 
increased awareness about the effects of various substances, 
our chemical restrictions are regularly updated. Our restrictions 
concern chemicals used in the production of H&M clothing and 
cosmetics. n
 1  In this report, the term ‘supplier’ 
denotes a prime contractor 
which supplies products to 
H&M, and which consequently 
has a direct business relation -
ship with H&M. Our suppliers 
may have factories of their own, 
or subcontract all or parts of 
their production.
2   A company hired by a prime 
contractor (supplier) to perform 
a specific task as part of the 
overall project. Thus, a subcon -
tractor does not have a direct 
business relationship with H&M.
3   In this report, the term ‘produc -
tion unit’ refers to factories that 
produce garments for H&M, 
both suppliers’ and subcontrac -
tors’ factories. CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   9
H&M offers fashion and quality at the best price through a wide 
and varied range of fashion, divided into different concepts. The 
range covers everything from updated classics and basics to 
clothes that reflect the latest international trends. It also includes 
underwear, sportswear, accessories and cosmetics. The largest 
department is women’s wear, followed by children’s wear, teenage 
fashion and men’s wear. The majority of our stores are full-range 
stores, but H&M also has concept stores offering garments for 
women, men, teenagers or children only, and stores that sell only 
cosmetics, lingerie and accessories.
H&M has been selling cosmetics since 1975. Today, the range 
consists of make-up, body care and hair care products as well as 
accessories for women, men and teenagers. 
Since 1980, H&M has offered its customers an alternative and 
convenient way to shop by mail order through H&M Rowells.
In 1998, it became possible to shop at H&M on the Internet. 
Online shopping is available to customers in Sweden, Denmark, 
Finland and Norway. A considerable expansion of online and 
catalogue sales is being prepared to complement the stores in the 
existing markets. The Netherlands will be the first country outside 
the Nordic region to start online sales in autumn 2006.
H&M in brie F
n  H&M was established in Sweden in 1947.
n  The business concept is “Fashion and quality at the best price”.
n  Today H&M sells clothes and cosmetics in approximately 1,200 stores in 22 
countries. H&M’s growth target is to increase the number of stores by 10–15 
per cent per year but also to increase sales at existing stores. 
n  In Scandinavia H&M Rowells sells fashion by mail order.
n  In Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland H&M sells fashion via the Internet.
n  H&M does not own or operate any factories, but instead works with around 
700 suppliers. About 60 per cent of the production takes place in Asia, and 
the rest mainly in Europe. 
n  H&M has 22 production offices: nine in Europe, eleven in Asia and one each 
in Central America and Africa. The group has more than 50,000 employees.
n  The turnover in 2005 was MSEK 71,885.8 including VAT.net tUrno Ver by C oUntry
  2004/05 2003/04
Sweden 4,961 4,717
Norway 3,717 3,326
Denmark 2,405 2,183
UK  5,365 4,909
Switzerland 3,599 3,387
Germany 16,881 15,258
Netherlands 3,652 3,310
Belgium 2,084 1,819
Austria 3,578 3,485
Luxembourg 270 254
Finland 1,472 1,270
France 4,371 3,709
USA 3,819 3,231
Spain  2,494 1,685
Poland 654 384
Czech Republic 305 164
Portugal 256 189
Italy 498 197
Canada 542 168
Slovenia 217 50
Ireland 114 –
Hungary 8 –
total 61,262 53,695oUr bUsiness  ConCept CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   10
buying office
The design and buying department in Stockholm is where H&M’s 
collections are created. Its task is to find a good balance between 
the three components that make up H&M’s business concept; fash -
ion, quality and the best price. Over 500 people work together to 
create H&M’s collections for women, men, teenagers and children. 
production offices
In order to be able to follow up production, H&M has 22 production 
offices: eleven in Asia (e.g. China, Bangladesh), nine in Europe 
(e.g. Italy, Turkey) and one each in Central America and Africa. The 
production offices employ approximately 750 people. The role of 
the production offices is to serve as links between the buying office 
in Stockholm and the suppliers. Our production office staff place 
orders, oversee production, and follow up on H&M’s requirements 
including Code of Conduct compliance, quality and product safety.
suppliers
We work with around 700 suppliers. Approximately 60 per cent of 
the production takes place in Asia, and the rest mainly in Europe. 
We make an effort to cooperate only with suppliers who meet a 
number of requirements relating for instance to capacity, qu ality, 
lead times, and compliance with our Code of Conduct. H&M 
endeavours to bring about long-term relationships with suppliers. 
Continuous cooperation facilitates observance of our requirements. Distribution
Every stage in the transport chain, starting with the forwarder, is 
controlled by H&M, which acts as importer and retailer. Once the 
garments are ready for shipment, they are distributed to H&M’s 
stores via distribution centres. Most sales countries have a distri -
bution centre where the garments are checked and sent on to the 
stores. Having few links and as few stops as possible in the distri -
bution chain makes the supply of goods efficient. noUr pUrCHasin G pro Cess
The design and buying department is where H&M’s collections are created. CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   11
oUr eMployees
At the end of 2005, H&M employed more than 50,000 people. This 
represents a net increase of 9.8 per cent (4,650 employees). The 
average number of employees was 34,614 (converted into full-time 
positions). 80 per cent of our employees were women, and 20 per 
cent were male. 
Of the management positions (including group management, 
buying office division managers and production and sales country 
managers), 44 per cent were held by women, and 56 per cent by 
men. 
H&M Group total Female % Male %
Sweden  3,872 81 19
Norway 1,523 91 9
Denmark 1,066 95 5
UK  3,408 77 23
Switzerland 1,317 89 11
Germany 8,778 81 19
Netherlands 1,840 82 18
Belgium 1,260 86 14
Austria 1,681 88 12
Luxembourg 125 88 12
Finland 657 89 11
France 2,467 73 27
USA 2,406 68 32
Spain 1,721 77 23
Poland 601 75 25
Czech Republic 209 91 9
Portugal 181 71 29
Italy 383 76 24
Canada 294 76 24
Slovenia 70 76 24
Ireland 77 82 18
Hungary 8 87 13
Other countries 670 62 38
Group total 34,614 80 20H&M Management positions total Female % Male %
Group management 11 27 73
Buying office division managers 7 71 29
Production office managers 13 46 54
Sales country managers 14 29 71
total 48 44 56
nUMber oF eMployees 2001–2005
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,000
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
In the past five years, the number of H&M employees has increased from 
approximately 34,000 to more than 50,000.  CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   12
the spirit of H&M creates commitment 
H&M’s strong corporate culture – the spirit of H&M – has existed 
ever since the days of H&M’s founder, Erling Persson. This strong 
culture is of great value and is a contributory factor to H&M’s suc -
cess over the years. 
The spirit of H&M is based on a number of values that describe 
in simple terms how we want to work. These are in turn based on 
our business concept – fashion and quality at the best price. The 
fundamental values behind the spirit of H&M include common 
sense and own initiative. Within H&M, we provide room for people to make their own deci -
sions and take responsibility, and employees get regular feedback 
on their performance. It is an important part of H&M’s culture that 
responsibility is delegated to the stores. Great commitment is 
essential and employees are expected to take their own initiative 
within certain given confines.
Our employees’ commitment makes a major contribution to 
H&M’s success. We believe in individuals’ abilities and encourage 
our employees to develop further. Respect for the individual is a 
fundamental value at H&M. This applies to everything from fair 
pay, reasonable working hours, and freedom of association to 
the opportunity to grow and develop with the company. To make 
our corporate policy on freedom of association and the right to 
collective bargaining clear, H&M has an agreement with the inter -
national trade union network Uni1. This agreement declares that 
both UNI and H&M regard the ilo2 Declaration on Fundamental 
principles and rights at Work  to be the cornerstone for their 
cooperation. 
In June 2005, H&M signed an agreement that lays out the terms 
for a three-year contract between the trade union Unite -Here3 
and H&M warehouse employees in New Jersey and Connecticut. 
H&M and UNITE-HERE worked diligently to agree on terms that 
were fair and in the best interests of the warehouse employees. n
 
1  Union Network International  
2  International Labour 
Organization
3  Union of Needletraders, Textiles 
and Industrial Employees 
and Restaurant Employees 
International Union CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   13
saFety at H&M
Our security policy guides our safety work. Attention is centred on:
n  Fire prevention and evacuation
n  Loss prevention
n  Crime prevention
security organisation
Generally, the manager for each H&M unit is responsible for secu- 
rity issues. The managers are supported by a corporate organisa -
tion which facilitates and governs the security work in the group. 
The head of security reports to the managing director. The corpo -
rate organisation also has security managers for information and 
information technology, as well as internal audit. 
In addition, the following H&M units have security managers: 
n  Buying department and production offices 
n  Sales offices and stores
n  IT department
n  H&M Rowells 
Every store manager must, in collaboration with the country’s secu -
rity manager, analyse the risks of crime against the store and train 
the staff accordingly.FoCUs areas in 2005
n  Shrinkage reduction programme: We have initiated a project with the 
aim to further reduce and prevent shrinkage in all H&M stores. Each 
store’s development is monitored every month, and staff from our 
sales and security departments conduct follow-up visits on a regular 
basis. 
n  Incident handling system: During the year, we improved our incident 
handling by implementing a web-based system for reporting all 
types of incidents with regard to loss of property, personal injury, 
and the H&M Code of Ethics. 
n  Crisis management: Our sales countries worked on developing 
contingency plans for their organisations.
seCUrity poli Cy 
H&M must be a place where both staff and customers can feel safe. 
Every employee of the company must, in their daily work and personal 
behaviour, strive to create a working climate that avoids the risk of fire, 
criminal behaviour and damage to both customers and staff – without 
in any way limiting space for spontaneity and creativity in daily activities 
together or hindering sales in the company’s stores. 
A properly functioning security system, where everything is ordered 
and well organised, creates a safer place in which to work; it reduces 
the company’s costs for damage and loss and contributes to increased 
profitability and comfort.
The person responsible for security is always the manager for each 
respective H&M unit. It is possible to delegate part of this responsibility, 
but the ultimate responsibility always lies with the manager. It is the 
business of every employee to take part in security work and to contri -
bute to safety at H&M.  CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   14
Combating corruption
We dissociate ourselves from corruption in any form whether direct 
or indirect. Our Code of Ethics is based on a commitment to hon -
esty, integrity and fair play, and defines what we consider corrupt 
behaviour. 
H&M’s Code of Ethics was updated in December 2005. To 
emphasise our corporate culture and its incompatibility with any 
form of corruption to our staff, there is a separate employee version 
of the Code. We inform all potential production office employees 
of H&M’s standpoint towards corrupt behaviour during the recruit -
ment process, and they sign our Code of Ethics when they are 
hired. It is the responsibility of our production office managers 
to regularly go over the contents and significance of the Code of 
Ethics with staff. Usually, this is done in connection with workshops 
about once a year, or whenever it is found to be necessary.  
In addition, our suppliers sign the H&M Code of Ethics to con -
firm that they have fully understood it and that they undertake to 
comply with it. Our suppliers are also required to inform all their 
subcontractors about the content of the Code of Ethics, and to 
make certain the subcontractors comply accordingly. Finally, our 
suppliers are requested to inform the production office manager 
immediately if an H&M employee should offer or solicit any 
improper benefits.
We conduct internal reviews of the Code of Ethics procedure to 
make sure that it has been implemented properly. If an employee 
is found offering, giving or accepting improper advantages in any 
form, the matter will be reported to the police for investigation. If a 
supplier does not comply with our policy on this matter, we will be 
forced to discontinue all business connections with this supplier.During 2005, we have had a few breaches of our Code of Ethics, 
within both the sales and production organisations. As a conse -
quence, several employees were dismissed and we permanently 
terminated all business connections with some suppliers. Reports 
of these incidents were made to the police.
information and it security 
Our Information Security Policy and Guidelines guide all security 
work on information and IT. These instructions cover:
n  Organisation and responsibility
n  Asset classification and control
n  Document and information management
n  Physical security
n  Communication and operations management
n  Access control
n  Systems development and maintenance
n  Routines for incident management
n  Business continuity planning
The intention is for H&M’s security work to be harmonised with the 
SS-ISO/IEC-17799 standard for information security management. 
All our work must at least meet legal requirements. CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   15
internet poli Cy
Rapid access to correct information is important if we are all to do 
our jobs in the best way possible. The Internet is a source of informa -
tion that can be used to supplement and rationalise this knowledge 
gathering. The Internet is intended for the gathering of information and 
knowledge for business purposes. Employees must be aware that it is 
an external medium in which – as in all other external situations – he or 
she is representing the company. Employees who wish to have access 
to information on the Internet from their PC in order to carry out their 
work undertake to abide by the following Internet policy.
n  Websites that supply pornographic, racist, or other unethical or 
unlawful information must not be visited from H&M’s computers. 
Storage of such information on H&M’s computers is absolutely 
prohibited and may result in dismissal.
n  The user shall always be responsible for observing the necessary 
security measures, copyright rules and licensing procedures for 
software, sound and images when downloading via the Internet.
n  The employee does not object to the company checking the Internet 
addresses to which he/she has been connected. 
policy on information and it security
The levels of the security procedures depend on the possible dam -
age that could be inflicted on H&M’s businesses.
responsibility and support
Security is a line responsibility that extends from the operation 
manager all the way down to the co-worker. The information 
security manager coordinates and monitors the security work and 
revises the security level – he/she is the business support within 
the information security area.risk analysis
Damage prevention and damage-limiting measures are to be pre -
ceded by a risk analysis and the cost must be in proportion to the 
identified risks.
Consequences of disregarding laws, regulations  
and internal rules
Employees who do not follow laws and regulations may be dis -
missed. Employees who do not follow the internal rules may be 
given a warning and in serious cases may be dismissed. We report 
all types of crime to the police. 
privacy policy
We have a privacy policy  on our website at hm.com. Our privacy 
policy is based on PUL, which is a Swedish law that regulates per -
sonal data handling. PUL is based on the EU Directive 95/46/ eC 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data. The provi -
sion concerning cookies is based on the law on electronic com -
munication. n  CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   16
GoVernan Ce strUCtUre
This section comprises information on the governance structure 
of H&M, including the board of directors, the auditing and election 
committees and company management. We also report on board 
fees, remuneration to the managing director and other members 
of the company management, as well as the terms of employment 
of the managing director. Finally, there is information on a bonus 
system for the managing director and other senior executives, as 
well as related party transactions. More information is available in 
the annual report  and Corporate Governance report . 
Corporate governance structureauditing committee
H&M’s auditing committee is appointed annually by the board of 
directors. The auditing committee held two meetings during the 
year at which minutes were kept. The majority of the members of 
the auditing committee are independent. The committee addressed 
issues concerning the company’s financial reporting and the 
scope and focus of auditing assignments, and also updated the 
established guidelines for services other than audits that the com -
pany may purchase from the accounting firm. Authorised public 
accountants Åsa Lundvall and Erik Åström attended both of the 
auditing committee’s meetings and reported to the committee on 
their auditing work.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELECTION COMMITTEE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDITING COMMITTEE
MANAGING DIRECTOR
COUNT RY MANAGERS EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
Finance, buying, pr oduction, expansion,
accounts, human r esour ces, marketing ,
communications, investor relations,  
corporate social responsibility . CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   17
election committee
As per a resolution at the annual general meeting (AGM) on 26 April 
2005, an election committee (previously nomination committee) 
has been formed. In accordance with the resolution, the proc -
ess was as follows: The primary shareholder and the five largest 
shareholders thereafter at the end of August 2005 appointed the 
members of the election committee. The election committee con -
sists of Stefan Persson and family (representative: Stefan Persson), 
Lottie Tham (representative: Lottie Tham), Robur Fonder (repre -
sentative: Mats Lagerqvist), Alecta (representative: Tomas Nicolin), 
AMF Pensionförsäkrings AB (representative: Magnus Wärn) and 
Nordeas fonder (representative: Peter Rudman). 
This election committee will remain in place until the end of 
August 2006. If the 2006 AGM adopts the current directive, the 
next election committee will consist of the principal owner and the 
five largest shareholders at the end of August 2006. The election 
committee has appointed Stefan Persson as its chairman. This is 
deemed a natural choice taking into consideration H&M’s owner -
ship structure. No special fees were paid to the election commit -
tee’s chairman, nor to any other member of the committee.
board of directors
The board of directors consists of nine members and four deputy 
members. Five of the members are female and eight male. Five of 
the thirteen are employed by the company, and four are independ -
ent. H&M’s definition of “independence” corresponds to that found 
in the swedish Code of Corporate Governance . 
Company management
H&M’s managing director is responsible for the day-to-day opera -
tions. The managing director has appointed a team of senior execu -
tives with ongoing responsibility for the various parts of the business. This team consists of the managing director himself and ten other 
individuals, three of whom are women. The executive management 
team is responsible for the following areas: finance, buying, produc -
tion, expansion, accounts, human resources, marketing, communica -
tions, investor relations and corporate social responsibility. 
board fees
Board fees for the year as approved by the AGM amounted to 
MSEK 3.9 (3.9), of which MSEK 2.4 m (2.7) was paid to the chair -
man of the board. No board fees were paid to board members who 
are also employees of the company. 
Managing director’s terms of employment
Remuneration to the managing director in the form of salary and 
benefits amounted to MSEK 10.7 including a bonus of MSEK 1.5 
(previous year, MSEK 8.4 including a bonus of MSEK 1.5). The 
pension expenses for the managing director during the year were 
MSEK 6.5 (previous year MSEK 6.3), of which MSEK 3.9 comprises 
pension commitments entered as liabilities. The total pension com -
mitments entered as liabilities amount to MSEK 33.1. The managing 
director may retire at the age of 65 (previously 62) and receive pen -
sion of 65 per cent of regular salary for three years and thereafter 
a lifetime pension equivalent to 50 per cent of the same salary. The 
managing director is entitled to 12 months’ notice. In the event the 
company cancels his employment contract, the managing director 
will receive severance pay of an extra year’s salary in addition to 
the 12 months’ notice. The managing director’s terms of employ -
ment are determined by the board of directors. 
terms of employment for other group senior executives
Remuneration to other members of group management in the 
form of salary and benefits amounted to MSEK 26.1 (23.8), which  CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   18
included bonuses of MSEK 2.5 (2.0). Pension expenses for other 
members of group management (see “Company management” 
above) during the year were MSEK 9.1 (previous year MSEK 4.7). 
There are rules in place for these senior executives in respect 
of supplements to retirement pension beyond the ITP plan. The 
retirement age varies between 60 and 62 years. The cost of this 
commitment is covered by separate insurance policies. In addition, 
a bonus amounting to MSEK 5.7 (6.1) was paid out to 13 country 
managers. No severance pay agreements exist within the group 
other than for the managing director as described above. The terms 
of employment for other members of group management are deter -
mined by the managing director and the chairman of the board. 
bonus system 
The managing director, country managers and certain senior 
executives are included in a bonus system. The size of the bonus 
per person is based on 0.133 per cent of the increase in the regular 
dividend established by the AGM and the fulfilment of targets in 
their respective areas of responsibility. The maximum bonus per 
person and year is MSEK 0.5. In the case of the managing director, 
the bonus is 0.40 per cent of the regular dividend increase with a 
maximum of MSEK 1.5. The bonus paid after tax must be invested 
entirely in shares in the company, which must be held for at least 
five years.related party transaction disclosures
The H&M group leases the following store premises in proper -
ties directly or indirectly owned by Stefan Persson and family: 
Drottninggatan 50–52 in Stockholm, Drottninggatan 56 in 
Stockholm, Sergelgatan 11 in Stockholm, Kungsgatan 55 in 
Gothenburg, Stadt Hamburgsgatan 9 in Malmö and Amagertorv 
23 in Copenhagen. Rent is paid at market rates and amounted to 
a total of MSEK 44.3 for the financial year (previous year MSEK 
46.7). An agreement has been entered into with chairman Stefan 
Persson’s company, Ramsbury AB, regarding leasing the premises 
at Beridarebanan 13, Stockholm, for occupancy at the end of 
2007/beginning of 2008. The rent has been reviewed by two inde -
pendent evaluators and is at the market rate. n CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   19
Csr orGanisation
H&M’s global CSR team comprises about 50 people. There are 
more than 40 Code of Conduct auditors. The auditors work at 
H&M’s production offices, where we also have about 140 quality 
controllers who report any infringements of the Code of Conduct 
that they observe. The auditors report to the local H&M office as 
well as to the CSR department in Stockholm. The CSR department, 
which consists of seven people including the CSR manager, is a 
corporate level department. Its functions are shown in red in the 
chart below. The CSR manager reports directly to the company’s 
managing director. The following corporate functions have environmental representa -
tives: advertising, building, IT, logistics, travel and H&M Rowells. 
The representatives’ prime function is to be the communicative link 
with the CSR department. All major production offices and sales 
offices also have environmental representatives. 
Please note that this is not a complete organisational chart; it 
serves to illustrate how H&M’s CSR department is linked to the 
company’s corporate level functions, and other relevant parts of the 
organisation. n
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
CSR
MANAGE RCOMMUNICA TION S
CSR
COMMUNICA TIONPRODUCTION BUYING
QUALITY
QUALITY  
CONTROLLERSPRODUCTION
OFFICES
CODE OF CONDUCT
AUDITORSCODE OF CONDUCT
COORDINA TOR S
ENVIRONMENT AL  
COORDINA TOR SEDUCA TION AN D
PROCESSESCSR REPO RTING
ENVIRONMENT AL
REPRESENT ATIVESINVESTOR
RELA TION S CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   20
Corporate  MeMbers Hips
Csr initiatives
n  Since 2001, H&M has participated in the United nations Global 
Compact and undertakes to respect its ten principles for human 
rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption.
n  H&M supports oeCD’s Guidelines for Multinational 
enterprises . Our support for the Guidelines was publicly 
endorsed in connection with the publication of the Annual 
Report for the year of 2001.
n  H&M supports the swedish partnership for Global 
responsibility .
n  H&M is a member of business for social responsibility .
n  H&M is a participating company of the Fair labor association .
n  H&M contributes to better Factories Cambodia .
n  H&M actively participates in MFa Forum bangladesh .
n  H&M is a member of amnesty business Group’s business 
Forum in Sweden.
n  H&M participates in the Better Cotton Initiative. 
n  H&M is a member of the organic exchange .principal memberships
n  european retail round table
n  nordic Council of shopping Centers
n  Confederation of swedish enterprise
n  textile importers’ association in sweden
n  swedish Federation of trade
n  swedish association of environmental Managers
n  the network for transport and environment
n  näringslivsgruppen Miljöpack
n  swedish public relations association
n  the swedish Marketing Federation CSR 2005 – OUR BUSINESS   21
sUstainability  ratin Gs
H&M is a constituent of several sustainability indices, among them 
DJSI World, FTSE4Good and the Ethibel Sustainability Index. 
Dow Jones sustainability World index
Dow Jones sustainability World index  (DJSI World) 
comprises more than 300 companies that represent 
the top ten per cent of the leading sustainability com -
panies out of the biggest 2,500 companies in the Dow 
Jones World Index. The assessment of companies’ 
performance is done by SAM Research, a research firm based in 
Switzerland. 
ethibel sustainability index
H&M has been selected for inclusion in the ethibel 
pioneer investment register . The Ethibel 
Investment Register is used as the basis for SRI pro -
ducts (the Ethibel Label and the Ethibel Sustainability 
Indices) for a growing number of European banks, 
fund managers and institutional investors. The char -
acteristics of Ethibel’s methodology originate from the integration 
of sustainable development and stakeholder involvement.
Ftse4Good
H&M is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Europe 
and FTSE4Good World indices. The purpose of the 
Ftse4Good index series  is to measure the perfor -
mance of companies that meet globally recognised 
corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in 
those companies.H&M rated best-in-class by storebrand
H&M has earned “best-in-class” 
status for leading environmental and 
social performance in storebrand’s  
textiles and apparel industry report, 
and thus qualifies for investment in 
Storebrand’s SRI mandates. The Storebrand Group is a leading 
Norwegian asset management, life insurance and banking institution. 
H&M one of the 100 most sustainable companies
H&M was included in the Global 100 Most 
sustainable Corporations in the World listing. 
The list was presented at the World Economic 
Forum in Davos, by Corporate Knights. It lists com -
panies that demonstrate the strongest sustainability 
performance relative to their industry peers.
H&M
oUr soCial 
responsibility
In this section, we describe this year’s social performance and 
activities, including results from FAP audits. We also explain 
the challenges that we face in various countries of production, 
as well as our working methods. There is also information 
about remediation projects, our quality work and community 
involvement.
It is essential for us to understand what our stakeholders 
expect from us. This section includes feedback on our CSR 
reporting rom representatives of four significant stakeholder 
groups. 
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   23
aDDressin G sUpply  CHain  
WorKinG ConDitions
responsibilities and opportunities
H&M sources from about 700 suppliers who in turn use sub -
contractors. In all, around 2,000 production units and more than 
700,000 people are involved in the manufacture of our products. 
Over the last few years, we have experienced a steady increase in 
the proportion of production that takes place in Asia. 
Our choice of countries of manufacture places particularly high 
demands on us. We are aware of the risk of human rights viola -
tions and non-compliance with local labour law and internationally 
agreed labour standards. At the same time, we have an opportunity 
to contribute to better working conditions for all the hundreds of 
thousands of people who make our products. We are committed 
to conducting our business in a responsible manner. The following 
chapter explains how we do it.
H&M’s Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct , which is based on the Convention on the 
rights of the Child and the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental 
principles and rights at Work , sets out our requirements of our 
suppliers. The Code was published in 1997. In 1998, we began 
conducting factory audits. 
H&M’s Co De oF Con DUC t1
H&M’s Code of Conduct comprises the following sections: 
n  Legal requirements
n  Child labour
n  Safety (Building and fire safety, first aid)
n  Workers’ rights (Freedom of association, no forced labour,  
non-discrimination, wages and working hours)
n  Factory conditions
n  Housing conditions
n  Environment
n Inspections and compliance
 The H&M Code of Conduct is available in its entirety on  
www.hm.com/csr.  All our efforts aim at contributing to and ultimately reaching the 
Code of Conduct objectives that we have set up. When setting 
our yearly targets, we make certain that they lead towards these 
long-term objectives. 
oUr Co De oF Con DUC t ob JeCtiVes
n  Full Code of Conduct compliance by all suppliers and their subcon -
tractors.
n  Code of Conduct completely integrated with our business 
operations. The importance of Code of Conduct issues should be 
reflected in everyday decisions as well as in strategic decisions. 
n  Factory workers empowered to claim their rights. Factory workers 
should be informed about labour laws and human rights according 
to national and international legislation. Their efforts in improving 
their working conditions should be supported. 
n  Code of Conduct compliance maintained through effective man -
agement systems. Tools and procedures should be developed in 
cooperation with the supplier.  
n  Knowledge among our stakeholders about our corporate social 
responsibility efforts. The information or education given should be 
adapted to the various stakeholder groups.   
 1   In Sweden and Norway, H&M sells brands of cosmetics and hygiene articles other than 
H&M’s own. After years of negotiation with our external cosmetic suppliers, a few still will 
not sign H&M’s Code of Conduct commitment. 
The suppliers/brands that have not signed and are not willing to continue discussions 
are Procter & Gamble and the Gillette Company. Suppliers willing to discuss but who, 
because of their parent company’s policies or for other reasons, still have not signed 
H&M’s Code of Conduct are Lever Fabergé, Beiersdorf, Henkel Norden and Colgate-
Palmolive. SCA Mölnlycke in Norway has signed our code; however, the Swedish branch 
has not. Many international brands are sold through national agents in Sweden and 
Norway. In those cases, the local agent may be willing to sign but is not allowed to do so 
by the brands it sells. This is most common with Procter & Gamble’s brands and such 
agents are Marwel Hauge in Norway and Scandinavian Cosmetics in Sweden. 
H&M has no reason to believe that the above companies are not complying with our 
Code of Conduct, but we do not have permission to verify this through audits. Customers 
who have questions regarding products made by the above companies are asked to 
contact these companies directly.  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   24
Monitorin G oUr sUpply  CHain
During 2005, our global CSR team has focused on implementing 
our new monitoring method, the Full Audit Programme (FAP). This 
section explains the purpose of FAP, describes its features and 
methods, and provides data on both traditional inspections and 
FAP audits carried out during the past year. There is also a report 
from auditors in three of our countries of manufacture. 
introducing the Full audit programme
By 2004, we had conducted more than 12,000 factory inspections, 
and the conditions in our suppliers’ and their subcontractors’ 
factories had improved substantially, especially with regard to the 
standard of fire safety and overall working environment. However, in 
order to be able to move to the next level and begin to address the 
more complex issues and – equally important – to ensure that the 
improvements are sustained, a new approach was needed. By dig -
ging deeper to find the causes of the various issues, we will come 
one step closer to finding possible long-term solutions. We hope 
that the Full Audit Programme will help us move in this direction.
Although what we do, i.e. the actual components of an audit 
– visual inspection of factory premises, document review, and 
management and worker interviews – remain the same, the differ -
ence between our traditional monitoring method and FAP lies in 
how we do it. At the outset of a supplier relationship, we conduct 
a FAP audit and take the time to cover all areas at the same time. 
The range of issues that are examined has increased and each 
issue is investigated more thoroughly. The FAP audit form now 
contains more than 300 items and a FAP audit takes between two 
and seven working days to complete, depending on the country of 
production, number of employees, and the commercial significance 
of a supplier to H&M. Information about how we prioritise our work 
is available on page 26. The findings from the FAP audit serve as the point of departure for our improvement efforts. The suppliers 
work on improving the issues identified during the FAP audits and 
our auditors check progress in connection with follow-up audits. 
Depending on the situation, it can be up to two years before it is 
time to conduct a new FAP audit and thus begin the improvement 
cycle anew. Read more about the remediation process on page 38.
“the Fap audit form now contains more than 
300 items and a F ap audit takes between two 
and seven working days to complete.”
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   25
We believe that working according to FAP benefits both us and 
our suppliers. By conducting a FAP audit early on in the course of 
a supplier relationship, both parties will know from the start what 
issues require attention, and the work can be focused accord -
ingly. In addition, by sticking to one action plan rather than finding 
new violations in connection with each factory visit, the audit and 
improvement processes become more predictable and it will be 
easier for our suppliers to understand our requirements. Many of 
our suppliers have expressed concerns that the audits they are 
required to undergo take up too much of their time and effort. 
Conducting fewer, but more comprehensive and focused audits 
should give our suppliers time to concentrate on improvements.
Fap in brie F
n  Searching to find the causes rather than just the violations. 
n  From a policing approach to improvements sustained by effective 
factory management systems.
n  Fewer but more comprehensive audits.
n  Extended audit form containing more than 300 items.
n  Worker interviews are an integrated part of each FAP audit. 
n  A FAP audit takes two to seven working days to complete. 
n  Issues that depend on poor routines are included in management 
action plans (MAP).
n  Continuous follow-up of suppliers’ action plans.  
our audit team
At present, H&M’s CSR organisation consists of about 50 employ -
ees, of which 40 are full-time auditors. Approximately 70 per cent 
of our auditors work in Asia, and the rest in Europe. There are three 
regional coordinators, one is based in New Delhi, one in Shanghai 
and one in Hong Kong.  Our auditors come from different backgrounds; many of them have 
worked as auditors for other companies in the apparel and foot -
wear industry, external audit firms or governmental bodies. Several 
H&M auditors have worked with human resources at garment 
factories, some have an NGO1 background, and some have come 
to work for H&M directly after graduating from university. 
Our ability to identify and subsequently to address compliance 
issues in the supply chain largely depends on the skills of our audi -
tors. Thus the expectations on the performance of our auditors are 
high, and we do our best to create the conditions for every auditor 
to meet these expectations. H&M gives newly employed auditors a 
thorough introduction to both H&M and the auditor’s role. We also 
seek to continuously educate and challenge our auditors. 
H&M’s introduction plan for auditors covers topics that are 
communicated in writing, orally, or through practical training. Some 
examples are: 
n  H&M’s company values
n  The role of the auditor
n  The ILO Core Conventions
n  Relevant labour law
n  H&M’s Code of Conduct
n  FAP tools 
n  H&M’s CSR report
The introduction is carried out by a senior auditor or by the 
Stockholm-based Code of Conduct coordinators. 
In the past year, we have directed our efforts towards training 
our auditors in conducting audits in accordance with the Full Audit 
Programme working methods. Initial FAP workshops were held 
in China, Bangladesh, Turkey and Bulgaria, and were attended 1   Non-governmental organisation CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   26
by auditors from several H&M production offices. They received 
training in conducting audits using the various FAP tools, the new 
extended audit form being the main one. Test audits were also con -
ducted at our suppliers’ premises. Later in the year, management 
system tools were introduced to all our auditors. Finally, several 
follow-up and evaluation workshops were arranged. Apart from our 
auditors, staff from the CSR department in Stockholm, production 
office managers and product managers have participated in the 
process of introducing FAP.
prioritising our work
FAP aims to detect all compliance issues as early as possible in 
order to rationalise and manage our monitoring and remediation 
efforts. If we are able to identify the issues that require attention at 
the outset of a supplier relationship, we can then focus on guiding 
our suppliers towards sustainable improvements. We direct our 
monitoring efforts by considering the following factors:
n  Country of production: The countries in which our suppliers’ 
factories are located have been divided into risk categories, 
based on their human rights track records. Factories in high 
risk countries are subject to more comprehensive audits. The 
risk categories are outlined in the table below. The risk assess -
ment is based on “business & Human rights: a Geography 
of Corporate risk” published by international business 
leaders Forum (IBLF) and amnesty international (AI), as well 
as on our own experience. 
n  Number of factory employees: Larger production units mean 
that more people are affected if conditions are poor. In addition, 
more time is required to gain a reliable picture of the conditions 
at larger units. n  Commercial significance of supplier to H&M: Our requirements 
are the same for all suppliers. We do however invest more time 
and effort in suppliers that we, based on factors such as price, 
lead time, quality and Code of Conduct compliance, assess to 
be significant. Also, if we are a major buyer, we are able to have 
a greater influence with a particular supplier. The assessments 
are carried out in connection with H&M’s regular supplier per -
formance evaluation process each season.
“if we are able to identify the issues 
that require attention at the outset of a 
supplier relatio nship, we can then focus on 
guiding our suppliers towards sustainable 
improvements.”
High risk markets Medium risk markets l ow risk markets
Bangladesh Brazil European Union
Cambodia Bulgaria
China Mauritius
India Mexico
Indonesia Romania
Pakistan Tunisia
Sri Lanka Turkey
Thailand South Korea
Vietnam Ukraine
▲ The risk classification displayed in the table is based on IBLF’s and AI’s 
assessments.  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   27
audit procedures
An audit typically comprises the following steps:
n  Basic data collection: We gather information regarding for 
instance the supplier’s ownership structure, production capacity 
and types of production stages. 
n  Factory inspection: The factory is inspected to evaluate working 
environment, fire safety and environmental aspects (e.g. waste -
water treatment where applicable). 
n  Document review: Various types of documents are reviewed 
and compared against each other to cover most issues in the 
audit form, e.g. emloyment contracts, age of factory employees, 
status of any migrant workers, grievance and dialogue systems, 
working hours, remuneration, and sick leave and other kinds 
of compensation. We also look for indications of discrimination 
based on e.g. gender or ethnicity. Cross-checking documents 
such as attendance records, production records, broken needle 
records and pay slips also makes it easier to determine whether 
the documents might be falsified. 
n  Worker interviews: Most items in the audit form are also verified 
through individual conversations with factory employees. Worker 
interviews are conducted as part of each FAP audit. Workers are 
selected from the documentation to cover different departments 
and different positions, and also randomly in connection with the 
visual inspection of the factory premises. We choose employees 
who stand out for different reasons, e.g. if they look young or if 
they are at a work station that seems temporary. All interviews 
are conducted individually; nobody other than the factory 
employee and H&M staff may be present during the conversa -
tion. All workers that we talk to receive contact information in 
order to be able to get in touch with H&M after the audit. n  Management interviews: Factory managers are questioned con -
cerning issues such as policies and routines. 
n  Inspection of dormitories: If there are residential facilities at the 
suppliers’ premises, we inspect them as well. Dormitories are 
mainly checked for safety and cleanliness according to our audit 
form. 
n  After the audit: The audit results and possible measures are dis -
cussed with the supplier in connection with a closing meeting. 
Subsequently, we compile a final report of the audit findings, 
and send it to the supplier by letter. The supplier is asked to 
establish a corrective action plan that specifies how the identi -
fied non-compliance issues will be addressed, who is responsi -
ble for the remediation process, and by when the improvements 
will be implemented. We recommend that our suppliers seek 
assistance from external partners such as NGOs or consultants, 
especially to handle serious violations such as abuse or sexual 
harassment. Our auditors monitor the process and its results by 
conducting follow-up audits. 
Systematic non-compliance issues, i.e. non-compliance that 
largely depends on poor routines and management systems, can 
be selected for a management action plan (MAP). This process is 
described in greater detail on page 38. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   28
new supplier evaluation
All new production units must be approved by the CSR depart -
ment. All new suppliers sign our Code of Conduct, and the general 
rule is that no production unit may start manufacturing for H&M 
before it has been approved by our audit team. Suppliers that have 
been graded ‘Temporary’ or better may produce for H&M. The 
‘Temporary’ grade gives the supplier six months to make necessary 
improvements and thus move to the next grade. The same proce -
dure applies when an existing supplier wishes to use a new factory 
or subcontractor for H&M production.
our grading system
Our grading system helps us to identify an entry level where we can 
start working with new suppliers. The grading scale consists of five 
levels: rejected: A supplier or production unit is graded ‘Rejected’ if 
workers are denied any of their basic rights, if factory premises are 
unsafe, if the supplier has not signed our Code of Conduct, if H&M 
is denied access to the factory premises, or if management refuses 
to cooperate in other ways. A production unit that has been graded 
‘Rejected’ is suspended, but can do business with H&M if it makes 
major improvements in accordance with our Code of Conduct. 
temporary:  A production unit graded ‘Temporary’ meets our 
requirements regarding worker’s basic rights, minimum wages, 
basic safety and basic housing conditions. A production unit that 
has been graded ‘Temporary’ has six months to make the improve -
ments necessary to earn an ‘Insufficient’ grade. 
insufficient: A production unit graded ‘Insufficient’ fulfils all 
‘Temporary’ requirements. Our requirements concerning additional 
safety, and housing and factory conditions are also met. Overtime 
work is voluntary, and compensation is paid. Workers receive the 
sick leave to which they are entitled. 
satisfactory:  A production unit graded ‘Satisfactory’ fulfils all 
Code of Conduct requirements. 
permanently rejected: Repeated employment of child labour, 
repeated use of faked documents and repeated use of undeclared 
units are severe violations that cause H&M to permanently termi -
nate business with a supplier. 
If a supplier’s production unit is graded rejected or permanently 
rejected, our purchase order system prevents our buyers from 
placing an order with that particular supplier.
Interview with a factory employee in Bangladesh. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   29
As we had anticipated, we managed to uncover more complicated 
and sometimes serious non-compliance issues using the new and 
more effective FAP tools. In most cases, we have chosen not to 
downgrade our existing suppliers immediately, but rather given 
them some time to remedy the problem. This is a temporary effect 
of the implementation of a new monitoring system. When all suppli -
ers have been audited according to the Full Audit Programme, we 
will fully revert to using our regular grading scale for all suppliers.
sUpply  CHain Close -Up
In last year’s report , we described some of the scenarios that our 
auditors face when monitoring factories. This time, we take a closer 
look at three of the countries in which our products are manufactured. 
To get a varied view, we asked our auditors in Romania, India and 
China to describe both their recent achievements and some of the 
challenges that they face. We hope that their reports will give the read -
er a feeling for the different conditions that our auditors encounter.
romania
Did you know that … 
… apparel and footwear products make up about 25 per cent of all 
Romania’s exports?
… Romania’s 7,200 garment factories employ about 450,000 people 
representing nearly 20 per cent of the industry labour force?
… being the world’s fourth largest supplier of textiles and apparel to the 
EU, Romania is known as the tailor of Europe?
… every tenth Romanian garment worker produces H&M products?
… our auditors conducted 150 audits of Romanian factories in 2005? 
As a result of the FAP audits, we have detected and begun to 
address violations that we were not able to verify using our tradi -
tional inspection methods. Below, we discuss some of these issues. Romania has ratified the right to organise and Collective 
bargaining Convention , and all employees in all sectors enjoy 
the right to bargain collectively under Romanian law. Collective 
agreements must be negotiated in workplaces with a minimum of 
21 employees, and the initiative rests with the employer. The nego -
tiation process should at least cover the issues of wages, working 
hours and working conditions. 
However, implementation as well as follow-up conducted by 
Labour Chamber is still weak. The challenge is thus to ensure 
that factory workers enjoy the rights that they are entitled to by 
law. In nearly all factories that we audited this year, workers had 
a collective contract. At the same time, this does not guarantee 
that the collective bargaining process actually took place, that the 
negotiations were held with the workers’ representatives and that 
all required points were covered. 
Taking a closer look at various kinds of documentation, and 
questioning factory managers and employees revealed interesting 
information. We found workplaces where collective contracts had 
been issued by the management with no prior negotiation with 
workers’ representatives, or that contracts had been negotiated 
with representatives appointed by the management, or that man -
agement somehow interfered in the process so that the negotiation 
was compromised. There were also cases where the representa -
tives elected by the workers did not engage in a bargaining pro -
cess, and just signed the agreement presented by the manage -
ment. Finally, in some instances, the agreements were not on a par 
with Romania’s labour code. 
Why is it that thorough and fair processes do not take place? 
The lack of information from the Labour Chamber and other 
sources, and consequently the low awareness level among workers 
are part of the explanation. The conversations that we have had 
with factory employees show that they know nothing or very little  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   30
about the right to bargain collectively, or its benefits. On the other 
side are the employers who do not have any interest in initiating 
negotiations with their employees. Meanwhile the state labour 
inspectors are satisfied that collective agreements are in force and 
do not question the process behind them. In some cases even the 
Labour Chamber can be regarded as a part of the problem, as it 
asks employers to establish collective contracts without guidance 
or any additional explanation.
Another issue that came into focus with the FAP audits was the 
falsification of documents. As we now check a greater variety of 
documentation, it has become easier to verify any suspicion that 
documents are falsified. Obviously, worker interviews are essential 
as well. We noticed an increase in faked documents after the state 
inspectors moved their attention to this area and began to penalise 
non-compliance. From our perspective, the first priority is to make 
certain that all overtime hours are recorded and compensated 
properly. As production is not on a constant level throughout the 
year, it is very difficult to always keep the legal limit of 32 overtime 
hours per worker and month. Even though we prefer our suppliers 
to be honest about the actual conditions, they can feel compelled 
to falsify documents for fear of not getting orders. Most often, the 
only way of getting the suppliers to show us the actual documenta -
tion is confronting them with indisputable evidence that the records 
are false. 
Worker interviews provide valuable information that is difficult 
to obtain in other ways. The integration of worker interviews into 
each FAP audit is undoubtedly a step forward. As many buyers 
have moved in the same direction, workers have become familiar 
with the interviews and understand their purpose. In many cases 
however, the possible connection between audit results and order 
placement has been pointed out to the workers, and they fear 
that poor audit results could affect their income or even their jobs. Consequently, one of our challenges is to deal with workers being 
coached, or even threatened by their managers before audits.
“Worker interviews provide valuable 
information that is difficult to obtain  
in other ways.”
2005 has not been a great year in terms of progress towards Code 
compliance among our suppliers in Romania. The fact that one 
third of our audits resulted in a rejection is a clear indication that 
things did not go in the right direction. One possible explanation of 
this regressing trend could be the economic context in Romania. 
The beginning of this year brought a sudden drop of the euro 
against the lei by nearly 20 per cent, followed later in the year by 
a raise in the minimum salary and multiple increases in the costs 
of utilities. These changes were fatal to many Romanian garment 
factories, while in many of the surviving ones, workers had to bear 
a heavy burden. 
What we consider progress in 2005 is our new approach to moni -
toring the suppliers. The use of the Full Audit Programme is defi -
nitely a step forward, as it helps us get a more realistic picture of 
the factories, allowing both us and the suppliers to identify the root 
causes of the violations. We hope that our new way of working will 
eventually lead to increased ownership of labour and environmental 
issues by our suppliers. Once suppliers become truly committed 
to operating their business in a socially responsible way, once they 
start complying because they see the benefits and not because we 
ask them to, we will finally be able to signal a real move forward. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   31
india
Did you know that …
… India has the largest area under cotton cultivation in the world?
… the textile industry provides direct employment to more than 35 
million people? 
… the textile industry is India’s largest foreign exchange earner?
… nearly 40 per cent of India’s garment exports are shipped to Europe?
… H&M has two offices in India, one in New Delhi, and one in 
Bangalore?
India has a very diverse economy, encompassing modern indus -
tries such as IT, automobiles and aviation on the one hand, and 
labour intensive branches like agriculture and garment manufac -
turing on the other. Although the Indian IT sector has received a 
great deal of attention in recent years, the textile sector is still the 
country’s largest foreign exchange earner. 
H&M purchases everything from basic underwear and t-shirts 
from large factories employing 1,000 or more people, to handmade 
fashion items from medium-sized or small family businesses. These 
different product suppliers are located around five main cities. 
H&M currently has four full-time auditors that regularly visit 200 
production sites to ensure that these units adhere to H&M’s Code 
of Conduct.
Generally, the problems that we face in India are similar to those 
encountered in several other countries; falsified documentation of 
working hours and payments, excessive overtime working hours 
and use of undeclared production units. The issues do however dif -
fer slightly depending on the type of production unit. Although there 
are numerous exceptions, the general pattern is that larger produ -
ction units are more well-organised in terms of health and safety, 
and calculation and payment of wages and overtime compensation.An issue that we have observed in the majority of all Indian 
factories that we purchase from is that they do not have proper 
communication channels and that worker-management dialogue 
does not function well. The textile sector is rather conservative 
and the need to interact with employees is not recognised among 
all managers. As a consequence of this, employees cannot raise 
issues further up in their organisations, regardless of whether they 
are relatively petty issues like poor ventilation, or severe problems 
such as abuse. This in turn means that problems cannot be sorted 
out in a constructive way. As one can imagine, this can cause 
frustration among workers and minor issues can easily turn into 
big problems and result in absenteeism, wildcat strikes, or high 
employee turnover. In addition, the suppliers do not make the most 
of their employees’ knowledge to improve both working conditions 
and production-related issues. 
The obvious challenge is to increase factory employees’ aware -
ness of their rights and enable them to address any problems 
that they might have themselves. This involves promoting worker-
management dialogue, and the prerequisite is of course to try to 
influence the attitudes among management, which might require 
investing in employing qualified middle-mangers, or at least train -
ing those currently employed. 
During the year, the CSR team in India has begun to work 
according to the Full Audit Programme. With the help of the new 
methods, we are able to work with our suppliers on the issues 
discussed above in a more constructive manner. There have been 
many discussions between H&M and our suppliers, but it is much 
too early to say that we have been successful in what we are trying 
to accomplish. Nevertheless, we have begun to place the questions 
of communication channels and grievance systems on the agenda, 
and we hope that eventually, employees and their managers will be 
able to work together to create a better working environment. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   32
China
Did you know that … 
… about one in every five garments in the world has been produced in 
China?
… H&M’s first ever production office was established in Hong Kong 
nearly 30 years ago?
… at present, China is H&M’s most important sourcing market?
... ten full-time auditors monitor our supplier’s factories?
… six of our suppliers’ fabric suppliers participate in H&M’s cleaner 
production programme with the aim of reducing the environmental 
impact of their manufacturing processes?
One of the major challenges in China is to get the rapid eco -
nomic development and increased sourcing from China to work 
hand-in-hand with improved working conditions in the factories. 
Short-term economic gains are sometimes overshadowing genuine 
understanding and willingness to make sustainable improvements. 
Hard-driven production is resulting in maximum use of the facto -
ries’ resources. Workers are facing long working hours, sometimes 
with no or little overtime payment, which in turn leads to increased 
migration of workers between different factories. In South China, 
the shortage of factory workers has contributed to a continuation 
of excessive working hours. Many factories are however now taking 
action to improve production efficiency by trying to reduce staff 
turnover with improved employment and living conditions for their 
workers.
Another apparent challenge in China is the issue of freedom 
of association. Under Chinese law, the all China Federation of 
trade Unions  (ACFTU) is the only recognised trade organisation. 
This means that Chinese workers have no possibility of establish -
ing and joining organisations of their own choosing. Obviously, the Chinese system strictly limits the scope of action. At present, we 
try to promote the benefits of worker-management communication 
to our suppliers, especially as many companies experience high 
employee turnover.
Double record-keeping with the main purpose of hiding exces -
sive working hours is still a problem but we believe that improved 
audit methods together with a cooperative approach to solving the 
problems together with the suppliers is beginning to have positive 
effects. 
In the past year, we have seen cases where factory managers 
have taken action and solved major safety problems caused by 
poorly managed material and workflow in their workshops. These 
actions confirm that safety is not being compromised, regardless 
of how busy they are. 
 
Garment manufacture in China. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   33
FaCtory  Monitorin G in 2005
In the past year, the vast majority of audits were conducted accord -
ing to our traditional monitoring method. The figures presented 
below refer both to these audits and to FAP audits. The FAP audits 
that we have conducted during the year are presented in detail in 
the next section. We expect that by March 2006, every audit will be 
conducted in accordance with the Full Audit Programme. 
our supply base
In 2005, about 700 suppliers and 2,000 production units were 
registered in our supplier database. Based on purchase value, 60 
per cent of the suppliers that we cooperate with are located in Asia 
and the rest mainly in Europe. Together, these production units had 
a workforce of over 700,000 people.
suppliers  have direct business relationships with H&M. Our suppliers 
may have factories of their own, or subcontract parts or all of their 
production. 
subcontractors are companies hired by suppliers to perform a specific 
task. Subcontractors thus do not have direct business relationships 
with H&M.
production units are factories that produce garments for H&M, and 
include both suppliers’ and subcontractors’ factories.
Monitoring data
total number of audits
  2005 2004 2003
Number of audits, existing units 1,997 2,120 1,909
Number of audits, potential new units 673 595 669
total 2,670 2,715 2,578In 2005, we conducted a total of 2,670 audits. 673 of these were 
audits at potential new production units and 1,997 were conducted 
at existing factories. Our Asian suppliers’ and their subcontrac -
tors’ operations were reviewed 1,387 times, and in Europe, the 
corresponding figure was 610. As expected, the total number of 
audits has gone down even though our monitoring team has grown. 
This development is mainly due to the introduction of the Full Audit 
Programme; we now conduct fewer, but more comprehensive 
audits. Our auditors conducted 81 FAP audits in Asia and 89 in 
Europe and other markets.
33 per cent of all audits at existing production units in Asia and 
41 per cent in Europe were unannounced. In 2005, we interviewed 
factory employees in 200 factories, which can be compared to 143 
factories in 2004, and 43 factories in 2003. 
Apart from the audits captured in the statistics above, our 
auditors also conduct other types of targeted factory visits. For 
instance, they may go to factories at night and during weekends or 
holidays to see if production is running. The purpose is to compare 
with time records to detect any unreported overtime. Another 
example is visits to factories on the day wages are paid, in order to 
check whether the wages register corresponds with the amounts 
that the workers have been paid. If any employee training, evacua -
tion drills, or other activities aimed at improving safety and/or work -
ers’ awareness are scheduled, we may visit the factory to observe.  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   34
audits at potential new production units
 2005 2004 2003
  number   n umber   number  
  of new  accepted  of new  accepted  of new  accepted  
  factories  for H&M  factories  for H&M  factories  for H&M  
region  evaluated  production  evaluated  production  evaluated  production
       Not 
Asia 400 342 338 327 365 available
Europe,      Not  
other markets 273 252 257 198 304 available
total 673 594 595 525 669 –
The above table reflects the number of potential new produc -
tion units that were approved for H&M production, i.e. graded 
‘Temporary’ or better. Some factories are considered to have 
potential for improvement, and they are therefore given a second 
chance in connection with a re-audit. The above figures refer to 
factories that have been approved for H&M production either after 
an initial audit or after a re-audit.
Supply base turnover or growth may be because H&M wishes 
to cooperate with new suppliers, or because our existing suppliers 
employ new or additional factories to manufacture H&M products. 
In order to be able to continue to expand, the present trend is that 
we favour larger manufacturers over smaller units.
rejected production units
 2005 2004 2003
Number of rejected  
production units 184 143 164At the end of 2005, 184 production units remained rejected from 
H&M production due to Code of Conduct violations. If these pro -
duction units improve, we will be able to place orders with them. At 
the end of 2004 and 2003, the corresponding figure was 143 and 
164 respectively.
During the year, we permanently ceased placing orders with one 
supplier due to Code of Conduct violations. We had reached the 
decision to do so in early 2004, but we had cooperated with this 
particular supplier for a long time and H&M was the major buyer. 
In order to give the supplier time to find other buyers and conse -
quently to avoid dismissals, we decided to phase out business with 
this particular supplier over a period of a year and a half.
Fap audits in 2005
As stated in our 2004 CSR Report, we will not be able to provide 
aggregated audit statistics until 2007 at the earliest. The reasons 
for this are twofold; firstly, a new IT support system is still under 
development, and will be introduced during 2006, and secondly, 
due to our new monitoring method a fair comparison between 2004 
and 2005 is not possible. As an interim step, we would like to give 
our stakeholders a picture of what the FAP audits have shown up to 
now.
In 2005, we conducted FAP audits at 170 facilities; 81 in Asia and 
89 in Europe. The total number of audits during the year was 2,670, 
which means that six per cent of all 2,670 audits were FAP audits. 
The statistics below include findings from several audits that were 
conducted in connection with FAP training and test audits, so the 
results are not necessarily in line with what we can expect to see in 
future. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   35
Country/ asia n o of audits Country/ europe n o of audits
Bangladesh 42 Bulgaria 15
Cambodia 2 Italy 7
China 13 Lithuania 6
India 22 Romania 13
Indonesia 2 Morocco 4
  Turkey 44
total 81 t otal 89
Please note that the FAP statistics presented in the following 
section are not representative of all production units where H&M 
places orders, or all audits conducted during 2005. Furthermore, 
the number of audits conducted in different countries does not 
necessarily correspond to the number of factories contracted by 
H&M in those markets.
The tables show detected Code of Conduct violations, i.e. the 
number of audits where we have verified violations is shown in rela -
tion to the total number of audited factories in Asia and in Europe. 
Our audits also cover areas that indicate either risk prevention or 
risk exposure. For instance, well-functioning grievance systems are 
not required by law or according to our Code of Conduct, but they 
make it possible for factory employees to claim their rights without 
the involvement of their direct superior. This indicates a lower risk 
of undetected violations.
   europe,  
 asia other markets  
Child labour and young workers 81 audits 89 audits
Use of child labour 1 (1%) 0 (0%)
Working conditions of young workers 12 (15%) 42 (47%)
total  13 (8%) 42 (24%)
Child labour
Reference: H&M Code of Conduct , section 2.
We found one factory employee in Bangladesh who had not yet 
reached the legal working age of 141. The girl, aged 13, worked 
at one of our supplier’s subcontractor’s facilities. Our auditors 
met with the girl and her parents to discuss different options, and 
agreed that going back to school would be the best solution for her. 
H&M made a financial arrangement with the girl’s former employer, 
which involved the subcontractor in question depositing a sum 
of money that H&M will pay to the girl’s family on a monthly basis 
during her period of schooling.
As the table shows, it is fairly common that suppliers do not 
take special measures to protect juvenile workers. Instead, young 
employees work under the same conditions as all other factory 
employees, e.g. with regard to working hours. With the introduction 
of FAP, we have focused more on the working conditions of juvenile 
workers.
 1   Generally speaking, the legal 
minimum working age should 
not be less than 15 years (ILO 
convention 138, article 2, point 
3, and our Code of Conduct). 
Bangladesh’s regulations 
deviate from this general 
rule; the legal working age in 
Bangladesh has been set to 14 
years in accordance with ILO’s 
Minimum Age Convention (138), 
article 2, point 4 which permits 
the minimum age to be lowered 
in certain circumstances. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   36
  europe,  
 asia other markets  
Workers’ rights 81 audits 89 audits
Employment contract 44 (56%) 33 (37%)
Foreign and/or migrant workers 1 (1%) 0 (0%)
Freedom of association and  
collective bargaining 5 (6%) 1 (1%)
Worker-management  
communication system 62 (77%) 63 (71%)
Grievance system 62 (77%) 63 (71%)
Discrimination 0 (0%) 0 (0%)
Verbal abuse 13 (16%) 4 (5%)
Physical abuse and/or sexual harassment  6 (7%) 0 (0%)
Forced/compulsory labour 21 (26%) 4 (4%)
Hours of work, regular 5 (6%) 22 (25%)
Hours of work, overtime 52 (64%) 48 (54%)
Minimum wage 5 (6%) 14 (16%)
Payment of wages (correct  
regular, on time) 29 (36%) 23 (26%)
Overtime compensation 13 (16%) 27 (30%)
Social security 3 (4%) 21 (24%)
Sick leave 13 (16%) 13 (15%)
Annual leave 20 (25%) 14 (16%)
Leave of absence/miscellaneous 11 (14%) 12 (13%)
Maternity leave (as per law) 2 (2%) 2 (2%)
Day-care centre (if required by law) 24 (30%) 2 (2%)
 total 391 (24%) 366 (21%)Workers’ rights
Reference: H&M Code of Conduct , section 4.
Suppliers need to fulfil several conditions in order to comply with 
the employment contract requirement. Each worker should have a 
contract issued by the employer, which specifies the employee’s 
name, terms of employment, job title, hours of work, salary, over -
time compensation, right to sick leave, annual leave and maternity 
leave (if applicable), and the conditions for termination of employ -
ment. The employment contract may contain additional terms. The 
most common violation is that employees do not receive a copy of 
their employment contract in the local language. 
There are a number of areas which we believe are underrepor -
ted, for instance discrimination and freedom of association. 
Thus far, factory monitoring has not been sufficiently effective 
in verifying whether workers at factories supplying H&M enjoy the 
right to organise freely. Instead, we are occasionally contacted by 
local unions when our suppliers do not respect their employees’ 
right to organise. Freedom of association is also a particularly 
difficult issue in China, given the current Chinese legislation. 
According to Chinese law, workers may organise only under the 
government-supported all-China Federation of trade Unions 
(ACFTU). The Full Audit Programme provides the tools necessary 
to begin to examine some of these issues more closely. We also 
hope to address the issue of freedom of association in a construc -
tive manner in collaboration with the Fair labor association . 
All verified cases of forced or compulsory labour were instances 
where the factory employees were not able to decline overtime work.  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   37
   europe,  
 asia other markets  
Health and safety 81 audits 89 audits
Safety requirements 14 (17%) 41 (46%)
First aid (equipment, training) 16 (20%) 64 (72%)
Fire fighting training 7 (9%) 45 (51%)
Availability of medical care 12 (15%) 14 (16%)
Protective equipment 17 (21%) 37 (42%)
Drinking water 3 (4%) 16 (18%)
Canteen/dining area (if required by law) 13 (16%) 5 (6%)
Building safety 0 (0%) 1 (1%)
total  82 (13%) 223 (31%)
Health and safety
Reference: H&M Code of Conduct , section 3.
We are quite surprised to see the high number of violations of the 
first aid equipment and training requirements in Europe, and will 
investigate the conditions behind these figures. Again, we wish to 
point out that these figures are not representative of our entire sup -
ply base. 
We have begun to examine the matter of building safety through 
discussions with external parties. Building safety is included in 
our Code of Conduct, and the matter is examined during audits. 
However, when our Code was established in 1997, building safety 
was mainly considered as a way of determining whether the design 
of a production unit enabled or hindered the fulfilment of our fire 
safety and safety requirements. The recent building collapses in 
Bangladesh have brought about renewed discussions regarding 
structural building safety. 
     europe,  
 asia other markets  
Factory conditions 81 audits 89 audits
Cleanliness  10 (12%) 9 (10%)
Air/ventilation 12 (15%) 20 (22%)
Temperature 5 (6%) 15 (17%)
Light 3 (4%) 3 (3%)
Toilets (number, cleanliness, access) 24 (30%) 14 (16%)
total 54 (13%) 61 (14%)
Factory conditions
Reference: H&M Code of Conduct , section 5.
   europe,  
 asia other markets  
environment 81 audits 89 audits
Environmental law 6 (7%) 3 (3%)
Permits and licences 6 (7%) 7 (8%)
Labelling of chemical containers 21 (26%) 26 (29%)
Material safety data sheets 38 (47%) 49 (55%)
Chemical handling training 32 (40%) 42 (47%)
Wastewater treatment and sludge  
(where applicable) 19 (23%) 2 (2%)
Hazardous waste (where applicable) 20 (25%) 39 (44%)
total (average) prevalence 142 (25%) 168 (27%)
environment
Reference: H&M Code of Conduct , section 7.
About half of our suppliers do not comply with our requirements 
regarding material safety data sheets (MSDS) for chemicals. One 
of the reasons for this is that quite often our suppliers are not able 
to obtain proper information from their suppliers of chemicals. The 
chemical containers are not properly labelled, and MSDSs are not 
made available. In some countries, it can be difficult to find suppli -
ers that are able to provide correct information in the local language.  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   38
toWar Ds sUstainable  iMpro VeMents
H&M implements a variety of measures to contribute to the 
improvement of working conditions in the supply chain. Monitoring 
is still the major component of our efforts as it makes it possible 
to identify and follow up issues, and helps us to direct our work. In 
this section we explain the remediation process that follows audits, 
and give an account of the projects aimed at factory managers and 
their employees. Two of these projects are explained in more detail. 
post-audit process
As explained above, audit findings and possible measures are dis -
cussed with the supplier after an audit has been conducted. Next, 
we compile a final report of the findings, and send it to the supplier. 
The supplier establishes a corrective action plan that specifies how 
the identified non-compliance issues will be addressed, who is 
responsible for the remediation process, and by when the improve -
ments will be implemented. Our auditors monitor the process and 
its results by conducting follow-up audits.
Issues where non-compliance mainly is a result of poor routines 
and management practices are included in a so-called manage -
ment action plan (MAP). MAP was introduced in the autumn of 
2005 as a part of the Full Audit Programme. The MAP process 
begins with a management interview, where we identify and assess 
the relevant policies, how they have been communicated and 
implemented and what control and feedback routines are in place. 
Once we and the factory management have agreed on what the 
deficiencies are, management is asked to develop a long-term 
action plan, usually with several intermediate goals. We track the 
suppliers’ progress as part of our follow-up audits, and a new 
overall assessment is finally conducted in connection with the next 
FAP audit. The underlying idea is that our suppliers need to assume ownership 
of and consequently responsibility for improving their own organi -
sations. As a buyer, we can help our suppliers identify the root 
causes of the violations, but the necessary management changes 
within the organisations have to be addressed by the suppliers 
themselves.
“the underlying idea is that our suppliers 
need to assume ownership of and 
consequently responsibility for improving 
their own organisations.”
examining our own practices
We are sensitive to the fact that H&M’s purchasing practices may 
negatively affect our suppliers’ ability to comply with our require -
ments. For instance, late changes in the styles of the garments can 
make it difficult for some suppliers to meet the shipping date, which 
may result in excessive overtime.
One of our long-term objectives is complete integration of the 
Code of Conduct with our business operations. We are undertaking 
a number of initiatives to analyse and improve H&M’s own prac -
tices as part of finding the causes of, remedying and preventing 
labour standards violations at our suppliers’ facilities.
raising awareness in the supply chain
Poor conditions in garment factories are often a result of insuffi -
cient knowledge among factory management at all levels. 
Awareness raising is thus crucial to improve the situation. To this 
end, H&M organises workshops on topics such as labour and 
human rights, local legislation and safety. The target groups are 
managers of our suppliers and their subcontractors. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   39
During 2005, 21 workshops were organised to educate our suppli -
ers and their subcontractors on how to comply with international 
labour standards and H&M’s Code of Conduct. The majority of all 
workshops were organised by H&M, but we also invited our suppli -
ers and their subcontractors to workshops organised by organisa -
tions such as BSR. A total of 664 factory managers and middle 
managers attended. 
special focus on maternity leave in bangladesh
During the year, H&M held a workshop on maternity leave for 
managers of factories with low maternity leave rates. The workshop 
took place in Dhaka, Bangladesh and was carried out in coopera -
tion with phulki , a local NGO. 42 managers from 22 supplier com -
panies attended. 
The majority of the garment workers in Bangladesh are women 
of childbearing age. However, many of them do not utilise the 
maternity benefits to which they are legally entitled. The results 
from our regular factory monitoring led us to research the matter 
further. We found great differences between different factories. 
As few as 0.1 per cent and up to 8.4 per cent of the female factory 
employees were utilising their right to maternity leave. According 
to various NGOs, a realistic maternity leave rate is around 8–10 
per cent. The main reason for the at times far too low maternity 
leave rates appears to be low awareness about maternal rights 
among both workers and management. 
The purpose of the workshop was to discuss maternal rights in 
general and measures aimed at increasing awareness of the issue 
among workers and middle managers in particular. Two suppliers 
with good maternity leave routines and high scores in our survey 
presented the actions that they had taken in order to improve their 
practices. The participants received guidance and advice on what 
action they could take within their own organisations. Among the suggested measures were training programmes for both workers 
and middle management, a simplified leave application procedure, 
systematic medical check-ups, as well as additional information via 
notice boards, handbooks and employment contracts. H&M will 
closely monitor the actions taken by the participants after the work -
shop. The Full Audit Programme will help us measure any progress 
made by the suppliers. 
education of garment workers in bangladesh
Our audits have shown that generally, awareness about work -
ers’ rights among both workers and middle managers at H&M’s 
Bangladeshi suppliers is low, and that communication between 
management and workers does not function well. As described 
in last year’s CSR report, H&M has initiated a project with a local 
women’s rights NGO, Karmojibi nari (KN), in order to address 
these issues. 
During 2005, KN held educational seminars on workers’ legal 
rights (e.g. wages, working hours and maternity leave). The partici -
pants were provided with leaflets to be used to educate co-work -
ers, thereby spreading the knowledge to their peers. The target for 
2005 was to reach about 400 workers directly and 2,000 indirectly. 
Due to various obstacles such as peak production season and 
limited staff resources at KN, this goal was not met; we managed to 
reach 238 workers directly and around 1,360 indirectly. 
After having evaluated both the methods and the outcomes 
of this year’s activities, KN and H&M chose to alter the training 
procedures somewhat for 2006. The first step is to provide the 
factories selected for the project with their own trainers. Welfare 
and/or human resources officers from each factory will attend 
three-day courses for trainers at KN. In this way, they will be able 
to hold awareness classes for workers and for middle managers 
in their respective workplaces. Orientation programmes for new  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   40
employees will also be held. As a second step, the factory workers 
will watch an inspirational play performed by KN’s director Rokeya 
Ratifique Baby, who is also a well-known actress. The play will 
focus on the importance of workers’ rights and worker-manage -
ment dialogue. Furthermore, H&M will produce posters with sum -
marised information about national labour law in Bangla, which 
will be posted in the factories. Finally, the factory managers will be 
responsible for implementing grievance systems in their factories. 
The goal is that by the end of 2006, all middle managers and 
workers in the four participating factories will have been trained, 
and that all four factories have well-functioning grievance systems. 
H&M participates in the Fair labor association
In 2005, H&M was accepted as a participating company in the Fair 
Labor Association (FLA), effective 1 January 2006. The FLA is a 
multi-stakeholder coalition of companies, universities and NGOs 
dedicated to protecting workers’ rights and improving working 
conditions. 
Being a participating company of the FLA involves committing to 
a rigorous programme of implementing FLA’s Workplace Code of 
Conduct, monitoring and remediation. More precisely, it means that 
the FLA will conduct unannounced independent external monitor -
ing visits at some of H&M’s suppliers’ factories in China. The inde -
pendent monitoring conducted by FLA will however not substitute 
our own audit programme – it will supplement it. At the end of 2006, 
FLA will publicly report the results of the independent audits it has 
performed. The report will be available on Fla’s website . Our participation in the FLA is a way of demonstrating to our 
stakeholders how we strive towards full compliance with our Code 
of Conduct. It will enable us to cooperate with other brands and 
FLA partner organisations to improve labour standards in our 
supply chain. We will also use the results from FLA’s audits as a 
benchmark in order to ensure the quality of our internal monitoring 
programme. n
 
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   41
staKeHolDer enGaGeMent
With the introduction of the Full Audit Programme, we are begin -
ning to address some of the more complex issues in the supply 
chain. However, as the problems and the causes that lie behind 
them are found on many different levels, there are limits to what any 
single actor can manage. Below, we give an account of the multi-
stakeholder initiatives in which we participate. We also present the 
feedback on our CSR reporting that we have received from repre -
sentatives of four important stakeholder groups. 
Cooperation  For CHanGe
improving working conditions in Cambodia
H&M supports Better Factories Cambodia (BFC), an international 
labour organization (ILO) programme that seeks to improve 
working conditions in Cambodia’s export garment factories. This 
is done by monitoring garment factories according to national and 
international standards. Summary reports of audit findings are pub -
lished on the better Factories Cambodia website . Remediation 
efforts also include helping factories to improve working conditions 
and productivity as well as collaborating with the government and 
international buyers to bring about lasting improvements. 
Better Factories Cambodia is managed by the ILO and 
suppo rted by the Royal Government of Cambodia, the Garment 
Manufacturers’ association in Cambodia (GMAC) and unions. 
BFC works closely with other stakeholders including international 
buyers. All of H&M’s suppliers in Cambodia participate in this 
programme, which serves as a complement to H&M’s own audits. 
In addition, the information collected by Better Factories Cambodia 
can give us guidance when we are looking for new factories to 
collaborate with in Cambodia. Participation in BFC’s remediation 
and training programmes also provides valuable opportunities for H&M’s suppliers to improve their practices and bring them into line 
with the internationally agreed labour standards.
MFa Forum bangladesh
H&M participates in the MFA Forum Bangladesh. We believe that 
Bangladesh’s garment industry faces several issues that need to 
be addressed on a country and industry level, rather than on a 
company level only. Such issues include excessive working hours, 
poor safety, low minimum wages and low productivity. 
The MFA Forum brings together a number of international and 
local stakeholders, including buyers, the World bank, oxfam 
international , itGlWF1, eti2, sai3, Fla4, representatives of the 
Bangladeshi government, bGMea5 and bKMea6. All stakeholder 
groups contribute in different ways, and the task of the buyers 
group is to agree on common approaches to compliance, both in 
terms of adopting a joint code of conduct as well as harmonising 
the implementation of this code.
More information about the MFA Forum Bangladesh is available 
at www.mfa-forum.net .
H&M participates in G ri’s sector supplement Working Group
H&M participates in the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) working 
group whose task is to develop an Apparel and Footwear Sector 
Supplement. 
The Global Reporting Initiative is a widely recognised sustain -
ability reporting framework with the 2002 Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines (the Guidelines) as the core of its reporting structure. 
As the Guidelines are generic, they are supported by sector supp -
lements that cover aspects that are not directly addressed in the 
Guidelines. 1   International Textile, Garment 
and Leather Workers’ 
Federation
2   Ethical Trading Initiative
3   Social Accountability 
International 
4   Fair Labor Association
5    Bangladesh Garment 
Manufacturers & Exporters 
Association
6    Bangladesh Knitwear 
Manufacturers & Exporters 
Association  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   42
The aim of the current project is to enable companies in the apparel 
and footwear industry to improve their sustainability reporting by 
creating a draft version of the GRI Apparel and Footwear Sector 
Supplement. The supplement is prepared by a multi-stakeholder 
group working together with the GRI. The working group consists 
of about 20 individuals from different geographic regions repre -
senting buyers, manufacturers, NGOs, trade unions, investors and 
other groups. 
An obvious characteristic of companies in the apparel and foot -
wear sector is that they rely heavily on supply chains. H&M’s stake -
holders demand information on our supply chain work, but also on 
our suppliers’ performance. Reporting on the actual conditions or 
performance of entities over which we have no direct control, i.e. 
the independent suppliers that we source from, presents a signifi -
cant challenge. A standardised reporting framework that enables 
us to report on sustainability issues in our supply chain in a way 
that makes comparisons within the industry possible is, however, 
a welcome development. We therefore appreciate being given the 
opportunity to become a member of the sector supplement work -
ing group, and consider this work to be an important step towards 
a more consistent reporting framework for our industry. By the end of 2005, the working group had held two out of four 
meetings. The work will proceed in 2006, and a draft version of 
the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement will be published on 
Gri’s website  for public comment in the spring of 2006.
 	 CSR 	 2005 	–	OUR 	 SOCIAL 	 RESPONSIBILITY   43
LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Our stakeholders’ opinions on the 2004 CSR Report 
Once 	 again, 	 we 	 asked 	 representatives 	 of 	 four 	 significant 	 stake -
holder 	 groups 	 to 	 provide 	 structured 	 feedback 	 on 	 our 	 CSR 	 report -
ing.	Last 	 year’s 	 comments 	 from 	Industrifacket 	(Industrial 	 Workers’ 	
Union), 	Fair Trade Center ,	Banco and	Globalt Ansvar (Swedish 	
Partnership 	 for 	 Global 	 Responsibility) 	 were 	 highly 	 appreciated 	 and 	
we	have 	 tried 	 to 	 meet 	 the 	 requirements 	 that 	 they 	 put 	 forth, 	 espe -
cially 	 concerning 	 audit 	 results. 	
This	 year, 	 we 	 asked 	 the 	 following 	 individuals 	 and 	 organisations 	 to 	
provide 	 feedback 	 on 	 our 	 CSR 	 reporting: 	
n		Joel 	 Lindfors, 	 coordinator 	 at 	 the 	 Swedish 	 branch 	 of 	 the 	Clean 
Clothes Campaign (Rena Kläder)
n		Neil 	 Kearney, 	 general 	 secretary 	 of 	ITGLWF
n		Anna 	 Nilsson, 	 head 	 of 	 SRI1	analysis 	 at 	 Swedish 	 mutual 	 fund 	
manager 	Robur
n		Lena 	 Tham, 	 manager 	 corporate 	 partnerships 	 at 	WWF Sweden
Our	questions 	 and 	 the 	 answers 	 that 	 we 	 received 	 are 	 presented 	 here. 	
 How important are sustainability/CSR reports to you in your work?
Joel	 Lindfors, 		
Rena 	 KläderAs	the 	 quality 	 of 	 CSR 	 reports 	 improves, 	 they 	 become 	
an	important 	 tool 	 in 	 the 	 ongoing 	 dialogue 	 between 	
stakeholders. 	 Rena 	 Kläder 	 uses 	 CSR 	 reports 	 to 	 estimate 	
how	 seriously 	 a 	 company 	 takes 	 its 	 CSR 	 work. 	 The 	 level 	
of	transparency 	 and 	 self-reflection 	 gives 	 us 	 an 	 idea 	 of 	
whether 	 they 	 are 	 heading 	 in 	 the 	 right 	 direction.
Neil	Kearney, 	
ITGLWF–
Anna 	 Nilsson, 	
RoburCSR	 reports 	 are 	 one 	 of 	 the 	 main 	 tools 	 in 	 my 	 work, 	 which 	
involves 	 conducting 	 sustainability 	 analysis 	 of 	 companies. 	
The	results 	 are 	 used 	 both 	 to 	 decide 	 what 	 companies 	 to 	
invest 	 in 	 for 	 the 	 sustainability 	 funds, 	 and 	 also 	 to 	 identify 	
critical 	 issues 	 for 	 companies 	 in 	 Robur´s 	 traditional 	 port-
folios.
Lena 	 Tham, 		
WWFWWF 	 regards 	 CSR 	 reports 	 as 	 important 	 tools 	 to 	 measure, 	
evaluate 	 and 	 compare 	 companies’ 	 environmental 	 and 	
social 	 performance.
1			Socially 	 responsible 	 investment CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   44
What are the three key aspects  
that you look for in a retail company’s C sr report?
Joel Lindfors,  
Rena KläderThe biggest value of a CSR report lies in showing which prob -
lems exist in the supply chain, how the company has contributed 
to these problems and how they have dealt with these problems. 
A CSR report should also contain an analysis which includes 
criticism and recommendations from other stakeholders.
Neil Kearney,  
ITGLWFWorkers everywhere complain that inadequate wages make 
excessive overtime working the only way to come near to 
earning a living wage. But real improvements in wages and 
working hours only happen through collective bargaining, 
which is near impossible in the absence of trade unions in the 
workplace. Mature systems of industrial relations and proper 
management systems are also the best ways of dealing with 
day-to-day workplace issues. However, all these are depend -
ent on workers not being prevented from exercising their right 
to organise. This empowerment of workers needs to be at 
the heart of H&M’s CSR agenda. Equally, H&M’s purchasing 
practices need to be documented in a way that enables objec -
tive assessment of their impact on workers in the supply chain.Anna Nilsson,  
Robur1. A basic aspect we look for is information on the supplier net -
work (e.g. geographical distribution) and purchasing processes 
(e.g. indirect/direct purchase, length of contracts) to determine 
the sustainability risk. 
2. The most important issue for retailers is the quality of the 
supplier evaluation process, as the supplier network is largely 
concentrated in countries where there is a risk of poor labour 
conditions and low environmental standards. We look for codes 
of conduct, clear descriptions of the inspection process (e.g. 
brief reviews or thorough audits, review intervals, levels in 
the supply chain that are audited), training of inspectors and 
collaboration with suppliers to raise awareness. Is the focus 
on improvements in the supply chain and is there a reporting 
system to show the development?
3. The company’s position on labour rights for its own staff 
including the right to form free trade unions is also an important 
factor for retailers.
Lena Tham,  
WWFGenerally, we would seek to evaluate the context and commit -
ment to sustainable development, management processes and 
policies, performance measurement, external verification and 
reporting. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   45
to what extent are these aspects addressed in H&M’s 2004 C sr report?
Joel Lindfors, 
Rena KläderH&M’s CSR Report 2004 does all this to some extent. What it 
fails to do though, is to reflect sufficiently on its own role.
Neil Kearney, 
ITGLWFThe report outlined H&M’s corporate values, its aspirations 
for workplace conditions and its proposed CSR approach 
but failed to provide evidence of progress on the ground. It 
claimed a change of approach from policing to remediation, 
from determining what is wrong to why it is wrong. But is 
anything wrong?
Linking buying practices to the application of CSR and 
developing long-term contracts is essential, said the report. 
It didn’t say whether this is already happening. It also said 
worker interviews are key to establishing whether there is 
compliance with local labour laws and the H&M Code of 
Conduct. Yet only 143 such interviews were conducted in 
2,000 production units employing some 600,000 workers. 
And no information was given on where such interviews were 
conducted.
Anna Nilsson, 
RoburThe most important sustainability aspects are extensively 
covered in the report. However, we lack information on the sta -
tus of the environmental and labour rights aspects within the 
supplier network and the results of H&M’s supplier evaluation. 
What is the gap between the Code of Conduct and the reality?
Lena Tham,  
WWFH&M’s CSR report for 2004 demonstrates a commendable 
openness and willingness to discuss difficult issues in public 
with its stakeholders. The report follows the GRI guidelines to 
a large extent which makes it reasonably comprehensive, easy 
to follow and should facilitate year on year comparisons.Which are the major strengths of H&M’s 2004 C sr report?
Joel Lindfors, 
Rena KläderThe main strength of H&M’s report is that it genuinely discus-
ses the function of the company’s monitoring work, and how it 
contributes to preventing violations. It quite clearly states that 
H&M, as other stakeholders, has realised that audits alone will 
not solve all problems.
Neil Kearney, 
ITGLWFH&M’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 was a bit like a 
good appetizer, whetting the appetite for the meal to fol -
low. Unfortunately, the next servings were a disappointment 
– a passable starter but no main course!
Anna Nilsson, 
RoburA strength of the report is that H&M shows a clear commitment 
towards sustainability issues and gives a description of the 
responsibility aspects of the company. It also reports the spe -
cific goals with the results (albeit qualitative, not quantitative). 
Another strength is the in-depth description of the supplier 
evaluation system and the challenges of the Code of Conduct 
inspections. We also appreciate the broad range of sustain -
ability issues covered in the report and the fact that H&M let 
stakeholders express their views.
Lena Tham,  
WWFThe social and ethical parts of the report are the strongest 
where it is evident that H&M has made considerable effort in 
recent years. To be commended for example is H&M’s move to 
longer term relationships with suppliers. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   46
How can H&M’s C sr reporting be improved? 
Joel Lindfors, 
Rena KläderH&M avoids any serious discussion of its own role when it comes 
to wages, purchasing practices, transparency and a proactive, 
structural approach.
H&M states that “due to rigorous checking of documents 
such as salary records, time cards and payslips we can be quite 
sure that all workers receive at least the legal minimum wage”. 
This would be fantastic, if only we could be sure it is true. H&M 
has over 700 suppliers, and it is quite impossible to audit all 
these in a year. Secondly, from checking documents it is rather 
hard to make sure that the workers themselves have actually 
received the wages they are entitled to. And above all this, we 
know that a minimum wage is rarely a salary that workers can 
make a living off. 
This clearly relates to H&M’s purchasing practices. 
Unfortunately, the report doesn’t say anything about this. It 
remains unclear whether and to what extent the demands H&M 
places on its suppliers in terms of speed, delivery time and 
cost-effectiveness influence their suppliers’ ability actually to 
adhere to the company’s code of conduct. 
H&M is ambitious when it comes to CSR. Rena Kläder applauds 
that. Nevertheless, during 2005 Nike, Puma and Levi’s disclosed 
their list of suppliers, in what seems to become a trend. H&M 
could have set this trend, and should certainly follow it.
Overall, H&M responds properly to cases of violations, 
including breaches of the right to freedom of association, the 
most crucial workers’ prerogative. What would make H&M’s 
ambitions really hold true would be if they could go beyond this, 
and make sure that violations don’t happen in the first place. 
A proactive, structural approach, starting from the workers’ 
perspective, is what can make H&M stand out.Neil Kearney, 
ITGLWFH&M’s commitment to ‘continuous improvement’ could not be 
verified from the report, nor was it possible to determine whether 
most suppliers were in compliance even with local labour legisla -
tion. Reference was made to ‘country risk categories’ but no 
further information was forthcoming, the absence of which made 
it impossible to establish whether H&M consider Chile a greater 
risk than China or vice-versa. All in all, a disappointing meal! 
Fortunately improvements were promised.
H&M’s Code of Conduct seems to be based very much 
on the application of minimum local legal requirements. This 
cannot, on its own, deliver a living wage for a standard working 
week. The Code needs rewriting to align it with accepted good 
practice.
H&M must be more transparent and disclose full details of 
the company’s supply chain as part of their CSR reporting. This 
would open the whole CSR process to greater scrutiny requir -
ing more meaningful future reports based on action undertaken 
and demonstrating whether a process of continuous improve -
ment is actually in hand.
Anna Nilsson, 
RoburThe most important improvements to the report would be to 
give a better description of the status of the environmental 
and labour rights aspects within the supplier network and the 
results of H&M’s supplier evaluation work, preferably presented 
in quantified data. We also want a description of the environ -
mental aspects throughout the whole supply chain. Would H&M 
consider publishing a gap analysis produced by an external party 
of its sustainability work in relation to the commitments of the 
company?
Continued 
▼ CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   47
Lena Tham, 
WWFBy its own admission, H&M has not given enough attention to 
environmental issues. Consequently there are areas where WWF 
would like to see improvements. These include: 
n   A clear understanding of the life cycle impacts of its products 
which would help shape the environmental strategy as well 
as set meaningful and measurable targets. More attention 
should also be given to the environment management system. 
Life cycle analysis could identify new issues where efforts are 
more cost effective than in current areas of work; i.e. the most 
significant environmental effects are likely to be related to 
cotton growing and production of synthetic fibres. H&M should 
consider undertaking research to generate such information to 
confirm or improve its current strategy.  
n   Data on raw material quantities and sources is inadequate; 
a 5–10 year target for organic cotton use (and other forms of 
less impacting cotton) should be considered.
n   Even if H&M feels that it is not ready for a third-party audited 
CSR report, it would probably help its management to com -
mission external experts to assist in the process of priority 
setting and maximising benefits from investments being made. 
Benchmarking with other companies in the industry would also 
help to set up more ambitious and measurable targets. 
n   H&M has identified CO2 emissions as one of its key challen-
ges. However the present target is not ambitious enough as it 
will not reduce the climate change impact of H&M absolutely 
but only slow its increase down. WWF would like to see H&M 
set an absolute target for reduction of CO2 emissions, inde -
pendent of volume growth.
H&M’s public support for the health and environmental objectives 
of REACH is to be commended. In order to be more transparent 
H&M could highlight its advocacy activities on this issue too. 
More clarity is needed on its chemicals listings.How can H&M’s C sr reporting be improved? – continued CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   48
Meeting with our stakeholders
During 2005, H&M participated in a number of meetings, confer -
ences and projects where we had a fruitful dialogue with various 
stakeholders. Examples of such meetings and events are:
n  MFa Forum bangladesh  in London, Dhaka and Washington 
D.C. (read more on page 41)
n  the Clean Clothes Campaign’s conference on freedom of 
association in Frankfurt
n  eti’s biennial conference in London
n  bsr ’s annual conference in Washington D.C.
n  The Responsible Competitiveness conference, arranged by the 
Directorate-General for employment, social affairs and 
equal opportunities and account ability in Brussels
n  the Global Compact’s summit in shanghai
n  amnesty international’s China expert meeting in Amsterdam
n  amnesty business Forum in Stockholm
n  better Factories Cambodia in Phnom Penh (read more on 
page 41)
n  Csr asia’s conference “The supply chain talks back” in Shekou
n  Better Cotton Initiative in Washington D.C. (read more on page 41)
n  organic exchange conference in izmir
n  Gri apparel and footwear sector supplement working group 
meetings in Amsterdam and Colombo (read more on page 41). At these and other events, among others we met with 
 representatives of: 
n  International and local trade unions
n  International and local social and environmental NGOs
n  Swedish and foreign governments
n  The European Parliament and the European Commission 
n  Financial institutions n CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   49
CoMMU nity  inVolVeMent  
anD CH arity
Global cooperation with U niCeF
In 2004, H&M entered into a three-year cooperation agreement 
with UniCeF, the United Nations Children’s Fund. H&M contributes 
to UNICEF’s HIV/AIDS Awareness and Prevention Programme in 
Cambodia and its Global Girls’ education programme . 
HIV/AIDS Awareness and Prevention Programme in Cambodia
Cambodia is one of the countries where H&M’s products are manu -
factured. We wish to contribute to the development of the country 
by helping to address one of the country’s major problems; the 
spread of HIV/AIDS. 
After decades of genocide, war and famine, Cambodia remains 
one of the poorest countries in Asia. Roughly one third of the popu -
lation lives in extreme poverty, the country has a weak health infra -
structure and the HIV/AIDS prevalence rates is among the highest 
in South-East Asia. The majority of new infections are among the 
young. However, young people also offer the greatest opportunity to defeat HIV/AIDS. It is crucial to educate them about HIV/AIDS 
and teach them skills that translate knowledge into practice: nego -
tiation, conflict resolution, critical thinking, decision-making and 
communication.
Young women are a major risk group that UNICEF wishes to 
reach. Cambodia’s around 200 garment factories employ about 
290,000 people, of which the vast majority are young women. The 
programme supported by H&M specifically addresses several 
garment factories that we source from. The aim of the programme 
is to increase female factory workers’ knowledge about HIV/AIDS 
and reproductive health, to help them gain better access to health 
services, and teach them life-skills to improve their self-confidence 
and help them make informed choices. 
Several activities will be carried out. For instance, 300 workers 
will be trained as peer educators. They will in turn educate their 
fellow workers using a “talk to ten” approach, which means that a 
minimum of 3,000 factory employees will be reached by UNICEF’s 
educational efforts. The peer trainers also receive questions either 
directly or through suggestion boxes. The answers are recorded 
and played through amplifiers during lunch breaks. Lunch breaks 
are also used to hold health promotion sessions. There is also a 
toll-free HIV/AIDS counselling hotline running for nine hours a day, 
six days a week.  
Global Girls’ Education Programme
Over 115 million children around the world have no opportunity to 
go to school. The majority of these are girls. This violates the UN 
Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that all children 
have the same rights, including the right to basic education.
The international campaign “ 25 by 2005 ”, which H&M supports, 
aims to accelerate the development of girls’ education.
There are many reasons why girls do not have access to the 
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   50
same educational opportunities as boys. Cultural values, long 
geographical distances and shortages of teachers all play a part. 
Among other things, UNICEF’s work encourages discussion and 
opinion-forming among authorities and parents by presenting 
the benefits of letting girls go to school. It is also geared towards 
making education more available in practice. One of UNICEF’s 
initiatives is mobile schools, a programme that brings the teaching 
to areas that are otherwise out of reach. UNICEF also trains female 
teachers and supports special grants for girls.
In addition to these projects, H&M and UNICEF cooperate 
locally in countries where H&M operates. A few examples are men -
tioned below. 
Read more at www.hm.com/csr  and www.unicef.org .
H&M contributes to Water aid
For the past four years, H&M has supported the work of the British 
charity organisation Water aid on improving access to and quality 
of water for people living in Asia and Africa. For over one billion 
people, obtaining water is a daily struggle. Many women and 
children in developing countries spend hours every day walking 
miles to fetch water. WaterAid focuses on using practical solutions 
to provide safe water, effective sanitation and hygiene education 
to the world’s poorest people. They also seek to influence policy at 
national and international levels.
H&M supports WaterAid’s work by donating ten per cent of the 
proceeds of selected swimwear. In 2005, H&M contributed GBP 
40,000 to WaterAid’s projects, enough to provide nearly 3,000 
people with a lasting supply of clean water and sanitation. H&M’s 
donation goes to Bangladesh, a country where some of the gar -
ments that we sell are manufactured. stella McCartney for H&M t-shirt
One of the t-shirts in our Stella 
McCartney for H&M collection was 
made of 100 per cent organically grown 
cotton. H&M and Stella McCartney 
decided that 25 per cent of the 
proceeds from this t-shirt would be 
shared by four organisations. FFi’s1 
International Gorilla Conservation 
Programme, animal aid, HsUs’s2 Protect Seals Campaign and 
peta ’s3 Animal Emergency Fund received SEK 125,000 each. 
Read more about organic cotton on page 68.
solange friendship bracelet
One of the products in the Solange for H&M jewellery collec -
tion was a so-called friendship bracelet. 25 per cent of the sales 
revenue (SEK 125,000) from this bracelet went to UNICEF’s inter -
national campaign “25 by 2005”, which aims at accelerating the 
development of girls’ education.
teaching sewing skills in bangladesh
H&M runs a programme for young people in Dhaka, Bangladesh 
who train to become sewing machine operators. The programme 
was initiated in 1999, and was initially intended to run for two years 
but after the positive response from the students and their families 
we decided to keep it. Today there are two training centres at which 
around 100 young people a year receive training in sewing after 
completing their basic education. 
1   Flora and Fauna International  
2   The Humane Society of the 
United States
3   People for the Ethical 
Treatment of Animals  CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   51
After four months of initial training at one of H&M’s training centres, 
the students become trainees at selected H&M suppliers. All trai -
nees receive continuous support from H&M’s instructors, and the 
students’ skills and development are observed in cooperation with 
the factory management. H&M pays the students a wage during the 
training period and once they have finished their training they are 
guaranteed work as sewing machinists at one of H&M’s suppliers.
In the autumn of 2005, the training centre in Dhaka initiated a 
project for heavy knit operators, in order to encourage more boys 
to join the training programme. 
Charity initiatives
Apart from our global cooperation agreements, our sales organisa -
tions engage in local charity projects. Here are a few examples 
from 2005.
n  H&M Sweden supports Mentor sverige , the Swedish chapter 
of the Mentor Foundation , an organisation focusing on the 
prevention of drug misuse and the promotion of health and 
well-being of young people. In 2005, H&M Sweden contributed 
MSEK 1.5. 
H&M Sweden also supported UNICEF’s Evening of Comedy, 
which was broadcast on Swedish national television. The aim of 
the show was to engage new monthly donors through UNICEF’s 
programme Global Parent. H&M promoted the event through 
a competition, H&M Club send-outs, window-displays as well 
as a number of other activities, primarily in the major stores in 
Sweden. 
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   52
n  H&M Switzerland also helped to promote UNICEF’s Global 
Parent programme via its stores and a children’s wear cata -
logue. 
n  H&M USA donated USD 40,000 in 2005 to Childhood U sa, the 
US-based affiliation of World Childhood Foundation . H&M 
expanded its support through Childhood to the Legal Services 
for Children, a children’s legal aid society located in San 
Francisco, dedicated to help children at risk with legal and social 
services. 
H&M USA also continues to support inwood House Teen 
Choice programme in New York, a school-based effort help -
ing adolescents make responsible choices about reproductive 
health, drugs, and family and partner relationships.
n  Pink bracelets were sold in H&M’s Danish stores. The bracelets 
sold out and H&M Denmark was able to forward DKK 200,000 to 
Kræftens bekæmpelse (the Danish Cancer Society).
n  H&M Norway donated NOK 275,000 to Den norske 
Kreftforening (the Norwegian Cancer Society).
n  H&M Austria collected EUR 9,000 towards UNICEF’s Girls 
Education Programme.Disaster relief in 2005
This year, H&M felt that it was important to provide support 
to areas affected by natural disasters. Apart from clothing, we 
donated EUR 150,000 to support those affected by the tsunami in 
Asia, SEK 500,000 to help earthquake victims in Pakistan and USD 
20,000 in connection with Hurricane Katrina in the USA. We also 
had collection boxes in our stores and were able to forward EUR 
275,000 towards UNICEF’s tsunami relief efforts.
H&M donates clothes
H&M continues to donate clothes to victims of war and natural 
catastrophes and other people in need. H&M’s efforts at impro -
ving quality have resulted in a number of orders being held back 
from sale in recent years. Clothes that do not meet H&M’s quality 
standards are not passed on to the stores. Instead, we have signed 
agreements with reputable aid organisations in our sales countries 
and large quantities of new clothes have been sent to those in need 
through these organisations. Some of the organisations that we 
work with are UnHCr1, oxfam , Caritas , red Cross  and terre des 
homes . Naturally, we never give away clothes that do not pass our 
safety or chemical requirements. Such garments are destroyed. n1   United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   53
pro DUC t responsibility
Quality is an integral part of H&M’s business concept. Our ambition 
is to make sure that all customers are always both safe and satis -
fied regarding the quality of all our goods. Our customers’ expecta -
tions lead our work.  
ensuring quality in production
Our quality work is managed through our production offices. The 
quality department at the Stockholm buying office supports the 
production offices in quality-related issues. Our GPQ1 staff, our 
technicians and our quality controllers all contribute to providing 
correct information and support to help our suppliers to manufac -
ture and deliver goods that live up to H&M customers’ expecta -
tions. 
QUality Depart Ment: orGanisation
QUality stan DarDs an D testin G
This section focuses on implementing requirements for our physical 
and chemical tests in accordance with the safety requirements of the 
sales country with the strictest regulations.
teCHniCal 
This section centres its attention on issues related to fit, sizes and 
technical making of garments.
proDUC t Control
This section is concerned with issues such as consumer product safety 
and children’s safety. Much attention is also centred on the implemen -
tation of our Guidelines for Production and Quality Control (GPQ) at our 
suppliers’ factories.In order to foresee or detect and correct any quality problems as 
early as possible, and thus ensure the quality of all products, H&M 
requires each factory to monitor quality systematically. H&M’s 
Guidelines for Production and Quality Control (GPQ) are part of 
the order contract between H&M and the supplier as they set out 
the minimum quality control necessary to manufacture goods in 
accordance with our requirements. The GPQ covers all stages from 
the sample procedure to packing and final inspection. 
Our production office technicians serve as the link between 
pattern makers at the buying office in Sweden and our suppliers. 
They work together with the suppliers’ sample technicians to solve 
technical and safety issues during the sample stage, i.e. before 
production starts. 
Our around 140 quality controllers regularly visit factories in 
order to inspect and correct any quality problems in the course of 
production. When necessary, they also carry out final inspections 
before the goods are shipped. H&M uses the AQL 2.52 system to 
determine whether the products are acceptable for shipment.
“our around 140 quality controllers regularly 
visit factories in order to inspect and  
correct any quality problems in the course  
of production.”1   Guidelines for Production and 
Quality
2   Acceptable quality level refers 
to the maximum percentage 
of defectives (in this case 2.5 
per cent) that, for the purpose 
of sampling inspection, can be 
considered satisfactory as a 
process average. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   54
HoW GarMents are QUality Controlle D
pre-pro DUC tion Meetin G
When possible, our quality inspectors meet with the supplier prior to 
production in order to identify and solve any technical difficulties that 
might occur in the course of production.
initial an D inline inspe Ctions
Initial inspections are performed after a few hundred pieces have been 
manufactured, whereas inline inspections can be carried out anytime 
during the production process. The purpose of the initial inspection is 
to make certain that the product that H&M has ordered is suitable for 
mass-production. Both types of inspections aim at detecting quality 
difficulties as early on as possible.
Final inspe Ction
During the final inspection, the quality controllers check to see if the 
garments are produced according to the approved sample and other 
requirements. They also check price tags, labels and sizes.
Samples of every product in H&M’s collections undergo a number 
of quality and safety tests. Each year, hundreds of thousands of 
tests are carried out, mainly at our production office and sales 
country laboratories, but also at external laboratories. Garments are 
washed and measured to check that they do not shrink or twist, and 
to check their colourfastness and dry rubbing. In addition, we test 
salt and chlorine bleaching, pilling and seam strength. Durability 
tests are carried out on details such as zippers and press-buttons. 
Flammability tests are performed to check that the garment is not 
flammable. Random quality control also takes place at our distribu -
tion centres before the garments are distributed to the stores. 
Children’s safety
Children’s clothes must meet particularly high safety requirements; 
H&M therefore designs baby and children’s wear with safety in mind. Our designers, buyers and production office staff receive continous 
training on children’s safety. New employees are trained as well. 
When designing children’s clothes, we try to avoid adding too many 
details and decorations to prevent the garments from being a safety 
risk. We also pay attention to hoods and drawstrings in order to 
avoid situations where the construction of the garment increases 
the risk of entrapment or suffocation. H&M always fol lows the safety 
requirements of the sales country with the strictest regulations. 
All baby and children’s wear suppliers are required to sign H&M’s 
Safety Requirements for Baby and Children’s Wear. In so doing, they 
undertake to follow our policies on e.g. button and accessory test -
ing, broken needles and needle detection machines. Each supplier 
must also appoint at least one person who is trained and updated 
on children’s safety by H&M staff. H&M reserves the right to cancel 
an order or, if it has already been delivered, return the goods if any 
of the conditions in H&M’s Safety Requirements for Children’s and 
Baby Wear are not met. 
H&M’s involvement in chil dren’s 
safety issues goes well beyond the 
various safety measures during the 
design and manufacturing phases. 
At the request of sis (Swedish 
Standards Institute), H&M par -
ticipates in a working group with 
the purpose of establishing safety 
standards for baby and children’s 
garments. The work is organised by 
Cen (The European Committee for 
Standardization), and in January 
2005, it resulted in a new standard 
(EN 14682:2005) that specifies 
requirements for cords and draw -
strings for children’s clothing. 
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   55
restricting the use of chemicals
Out of concern for the health of our customers and employees, 
the factory employees who make our products, as well as for the 
environment, H&M has established chemical restrictions for textile, 
leather, plastic and metal products. These are chemicals that 
are, or could potentially be, harmful for health and environment. 
Particular consideration is given to substances that could cause 
skin irritation or allergies or that may be carcinogenic. There are 
also restrictions for cosmetic and hygiene products (see page 56).
 The precautionary principle guides our work with chemical 
restrictions. Thus, the restrictions include both chemials restricted 
by law and chemicals that we have chosen to add to the list for 
precautionary reasons. As an important part of H&M’s long-term 
work against allergies, we participate in a project organised by CEN 
that aims to develop standardised methods for analysis of allergens 
in materials and products. 
We require that all our suppliers comply with our chemicals 
restrictions. To this end, all suppliers must sign the Chemical 
Restrictions compliance commitment. Cosmetics suppliers also 
sign the Restrictions for Cosmetic and Hygiene Products compli -
ance commitment (see page 56). We support our suppliers with 
information on how to implement and comply with our chemical 
restrictions. Our suppliers also receive information on how to locate 
and resolve problems if they infringe our restrictions. In this way we 
contribute to reducing the environmental impact in the production 
process, as well as in the incineration and in recycling of worn-out 
clothing.
We perform tests in order to check that banned chemicals are 
not present in the products. AZO dyes, disperse dyes, formaldehyde  
and phthalates are examples of substances we routinely test for. 
About 21,000 chemical-related tests were performed during 2005. 
In addition, jewellery and metal details are tested for nickel release. In order to stay ahead, close cooperation and dialogue with rel -
evant authorities is also crucial. Our cooperation and sharing of 
information with the US Consumer Product Safety Commission 
(CPSC), the National Chemicals Inspectorate in Sweden, the 
Swedish Consumer Agency and other similar organisations have 
helped us become a leader in the field.
“about 21,000 chemical-related tests were 
performed during 2005.”
Chemicals restrictions update
Our chemical restrictions are continuously updated, most recently 
during 2005. Among other things, the limit for APEOs (alkylphe -
nolethoxylates) was decreased. Our aim is to phase out APEOs 
entirely from the production of H&M products. Also, the fluorinated 
compound PFOA (perfluorooctanoic acid) was added to our 
restrictions list during the year. PFOA and PFOS (perfluorooctane 
sulphonate) form the group PFAS (perfluorinated alkylated sub -
stances). The updated chemical restrictions list can be found under 
a drop-down menu at www.hm.com/csr .
Following legislation through eco-track
Our concerns about the impact of certain substances on the environ -
ment and on human health require us to keep abreast of the stringent 
legislation that exists in many of our sales countries. eco-track 
provides valuable and up-to-date information on relevant legislation 
– existing and forthcoming – that may affect our products. CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   56
rea CH – proposal for new chemicals legislation within the eU
Chemicals are used in the manufacturing processes for almost every 
product, and as ingredients in the products themselves. However, the 
information on what harm these chemicals do to our health and to the 
environment is insufficient. Companies that are dependent on chemicals 
for their products are presently unable to obtain the information they 
need. Still, they cannot afford not to have such information. To tackle 
this deficiency, a new set of EU legislation is taking shape. The existing 
patchwork of different chemicals laws will be replaced by one single 
piece of legislation for the registration, evaluation and authorisation of 
chemicals (REACH).
H&M’s ambition is to make certain that all our customers always are 
both safe and satisfied regarding the quality of our products. To this end, 
we avoid using hazardous substances. We have already phased out bro -
minated flame-retardants, PVC, as well as certain organotin compounds 
and phthalates from our clothing lines in favour of substitutes. 
REACH will lead to internationally harmonised and authorised criteria 
for substances of very high concern. This will obviously assist H&M in 
selecting substances for substitution, in very much the same way as our 
chemical restriction list process. We have adopted the precautionary 
principle, and that means we have to be proactive and solve the prob -
lems upstream. The most cost-effective and the only adequate control 
measure should be substitution – not to continue to use hazardous 
chemicals. A strong REACH would benefit H&M’s business by minimis -
ing our business risks and by reducing our costs in ensuring that all 
products we offer our customers are free from substances that are, or 
could potentially be, harmful to health and environment.
The Council of Ministers reached an agreement on REACH in Decem -
ber 2005. Rather than supporting the principle of substitution, the 
Council claimed that evidence of “adequate control” is sufficient ground 
for granting authorisation for e.g. carcinogenic substances. This means 
that some chemicals could stay on the market, even if safer alternatives 
are available, which is not what H&M had hoped for. REACH is still to be 
formally adopted and approved, and could subsequently come into force 
at the end of 2006.limiting the use of chemicals in cosmetic products 
Since 1997, H&M has had a list of restrictions of the chemical con -
tent of cosmetic and hygiene products. All suppliers of cosmetic 
and hygiene products undertake to abide by H&M’s restrictions. 
These include detailed requirements of the content, chemicals, 
packaging and labelling of the products. H&M’s restrictions and 
requirements are continually updated and are adapted to the sales 
country which has the most stringent legislation. In addition to 
H&M’s own requirements and restrictions on the use of chemicals, 
the supplier must also undertake to observe the eU directive on 
chemicals in cosmetic and hygiene products (76/768/ eeC). 
The supplier has a duty to provide information and to ensure that 
subcontractors also abide by H&M’s restrictions. If it emerges dur -
ing H&M’s quality controls that the supplier is not abiding by the 
agreement, H&M has the right to terminate the cooperation.
H&M does not allow animal testing
H&M does not allow animal testing for cosmetic and hygiene 
products, either during production or for the finished products. 
All the ingredients used in H&M’s products are approved in accor -
dance with the high requirements set by the authorities and H&M. 
Products are always assessed for their safety and quality. H&M 
has had a policy on animal testing since the mid-1990s. This policy 
forms part of the above mentioned restrictions for cosmetic and 
hygiene products. Read more in our fact sheet on animal rights 
issues, which can be downloaded from www.hm.com/csr.   CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   57
product and labelling policies 
n  H&M does not sell real fur. 
n  H&M only sells leather from cow, buffalo, sheep, goat or pig that 
has been bred for meat production, not just for the sake of the skin.
n  H&M does not purchase leather products from Indian suppliers 
due to the grim conditions in which the animals are transported.
n  Due to the poor working conditions in the Indian silk industry, 
H&M does not buy silk from India.
n  Down and feathers should only be picked from slaughtered 
birds that have been bred for meat production. H&M requires 
a certificate that shows that the down and feathers have been 
properly washed and steamed (120–130 degrees Celsius for 30 
minutes). 
n  H&M’s suppliers must guarantee that material used for H&M’s 
products does not contain endangered species in any form.
n  For products made of wood originating from countries with tropi -
cal rain forest (Bolivia, Brazil, Central African Republic, Cameron, 
Colombia, Congo, Congo-Kinshasa, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, 
Gabon, Guyana, Indonesia, French Guiana, Malaysia, Papua 
New Guinea, Peru, Surinam and Venezuela), H&M requires a 
certificate from FSC (Forest Stewardship Council).
n  H&M’s children’s clothing must be comfortable and practical. 
We aim not to sell children’s clothes that may be perceived as 
provocative. 
n  H&M does not use camoufluage patterns on garments. 
n  Prints on tops and other garments must not be offensive, racist, 
sexist, political or religious.
n  Since autumn 2002, in accordance with American legislation, all 
garments are labelled with country of origin information.recall management
In spite of well-organised quality work, garments that do not live 
up to our standards do on rare occasions reach our stores. In such 
cases, our recall management system ensures fast and professional 
recall of a particular item. In 2005, one item was recalled. For infor -
mation on recalled items, please visit www.hm.com/quality . n	 CSR 	 2005 	–	OUR 	 SOCIAL 	 RESPONSIBILITY   58
COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING
All	H&M’s 	 communication 	 aims 	 at 	 building 	 the 	 H&M 	 brand 	 in 	
the	long 	 term. 	 The 	 way 	 in 	 which 	 we 	 communicate 	 with 	 the 	 world 	
around 	 us 	 influences 	 our 	 credibility. 	 Both 	 internal 	 and 	 external 	
communication 	 must 	 therefore 	 be 	 characterised 	 by 	 an 	 open 	 atti-
tude	 with 	 clear 	 messages, 	 accessibility 	 and 	 awareness. 	
H&M 	 conveys 	 the 	 brand 	 via 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 different 	 channels, 	 the 	
main 	 channel 	 being 	 our 	 stores. 	 Our 	 methods 	 of 	 communicating 	
include 	 advertising 	 in 	 magazines, 	 on 	 television, 	 billboards 	 and 	 the 	
Internet. 	 Our 	 advertisements 	 are 	 largely 	 identical 	 in 	 all 	 our 	 mar-
kets, 	 but 	 the 	 media 	 mix 	 is 	 adapted 	 to 	 local 	 needs 	 and 	 conditions. 	
Commercial 	 images 	 are 	 a 	 matter 	 of 	 taste, 	 and 	 it 	 is 	 very 	 difficult 	
to	satisfy 	 all 	 preferences. 	 Through 	 customer 	 surveys 	 in 	 all 	 our 	
markets, 	 we 	 however 	 know 	 that 	 the 	 vast 	 majority 	 of 	 our 	 customers 	
appreciate 	 our 	 marketing 	 and 	 that 	 it 	 creates 	 positive 	 brand 	 values.
Our fashion models
Fashion 	 changes 	 continuously 	 and 	 our 	 campaigns 	 strive 	 to 	 follow 	
the	different 	 trends. 	 This 	 means 	 that 	 different 	 campaigns 	 benefit 	
from 	 the 	 use 	 of 	 different 	 fashion 	 models. 	 However, 	 when 	 trends 	
move 	 towards 	 unhealthiness, 	 we 	 should 	 not 	 follow 	 them 	 in 	 our 	
communication.
Our	models 	 are 	 chosen 	 in 	 cooperation 	 with 	 internationally 	 rec-
ognised 	 modelling 	 agencies. 	 Representatives 	 from 	 H&M 	 are 	 always 	
present 	 at 	 commercial 	 photo 	 shoots 	 to 	 ensure 	 that 	 our 	 demands 	
are	met. 	
 CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   59
H&M’s a DVertisin G poli Cy
H&M communicates its business concept – fashion and quality at the 
best price – through various advertising campaigns each year through -
out Europe and North America. The campaigns are designed to be clear 
and simple and aim to inform our customers of what is new at H&M and 
to show who we are and what we stand for. We show the latest fashion 
and the price of the goods.
Advertising is produced centrally in Sweden by H&M’s marketing 
department in cooperation with various creative professionals. The 
advertisements are largely identical in all H&M’s markets, but the media 
mix is adapted to local requirements and conditions. 
Our marketing has a major impact. It is therefore essential for us to 
convey a positive and healthy image. H&M’s advertising images do not 
aim to communicate a specific ideal. We use different characters and a 
mix of different looks and styles to advertise our various concepts for 
women, men, teenagers and children. 
The people we show in our advertising must be healthy and whole -
some. H&M deliberately distances itself from drug and alcohol abuse. 
The models are chosen in cooperation between internationally recog -
nised agencies and our own representatives. The reason why we use 
professional models is that they are used to being in front of the camera 
and can give a true impression of our clothes. By working with profes -
sional models, photographers and stylists, we can communicate our 
fashion and quality in a clear and inspirational way. 
We have special guidelines for the advertising of our children’s 
concepts. Our target group is parents, not children. This means that 
we place advertisements in media that is not aimed directly at children. 
Whenever children are involved in a photo shoot there is always a rep -
resentative of H&M present to ensure professionalism and the safety of 
the children. We market clothes for both boys and girls of different ages. 
By using children from different cultures, we highlight the diversity of 
society.If a situation that is incompatible with our position should arise, 
we will take action. During the autumn of 2005, we chose to alter 
a campaign and hire a different fashion model as it had come to 
our attention that the model that we had chosen initially had used 
narcotics during the period of our cooperation. As a consequence 
of this incident, we have begun to review our advertising policy and 
practices. We have also initiated dialogue with relevant external 
parties in order to gain a better understanding of this particular 
problem area. n CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   60
obJeCtiVe tarGets anD aCtiVities tiMeFraMe responsible CoMMent /sCope FUlFilMent
Code of  
Conduct 
compliance 
maintained 
through 
effective 
management 
systemsFull Audit Programme (FAP): Our target is to 
introduce a new method of performing more 
thorough audits at production units.Spring 2005 Tobias Fischer,  
Ingrid Schullström.Read more about FAP 
on page 25 in our 2004 
CSR report. Done within time 
frame.
FAP: Introduce a new audit form to be 
used when inspecting production units. All 
auditors will receive training, and the form 
will be put into use during 2005. Spring 2005 Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Maritha Lorentzon, 
Ingrid Schullström.Read more about FAP 
on page 25 in our 2004 
CSR report.Done within time 
frame. 
FAP: Finalise and test the new IT system. 2005 Tobias Fischer,  
Ann-Charlotte Dahl.Read more about FAP 
on page 25 in our 2004 
CSR report.In progress.
Full Code 
of Conduct 
compliance by 
all suppliers 
and their 
subcontractorsFAP: Integrate worker interviews in all audit 
and verification procedures.Spring 2005 Tobias Fischer Worker interviews are 
to be an integrated 
part of FAP . Done within time 
frame. 
Reduce overtime: Collect information on best 
practice regarding overtime reduction, and 
investigate how much overtime production 
units in each market have. This data will form 
the basis of future efforts to reduce overtime.2005 Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Maritha Lorentzon.– In progress.
Education of suppliers: Examine the need 
for education in each market, and locate 
potential partners, i.e. NGOs, public 
authorities etc. 2005 Tobias Fischer, 
Magnus Mattsson.– Results from FAP 
audits will serve as a 
starting point. Project 
continued. These are the targets that 
the CSR department had 
set for 2005. The table 
shows our progress against 
these targets.soCial tarGets 2005:  
FUlFilMent CSR 2005 – OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY   61
The targets described here 
are the ones that are spe -
cific to the CSR department 
at a corporate level. Each 
production office has tar -
gets and activities relevant 
to their own market.soCial tarGets 2006
obJeCtiVe tarGets anD aCtiVities tiMeFraMe responsible CoMMent /sCope
Full Code of Conduct 
compliance by all 
suppliers and their 
subcontractors.Full Audit Programme (FAP): Evaluate and, 
if necessary, modify the follow-up audit and 
 management action plan (MAP) tools.2006 Ingrid Schullström, 
Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Maritha Lorentzon, 
Ann-Charlotte Dahl.–
Test and guarantee the quality of FAP and its 
tools. 2006 Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Maritha Lorentzon. The exact method of assessment 
is yet to be decided.
Capacity building: Locate potential local partners, 
i.e. NGOs and consultancies that will be able to 
assist our suppliers in connection with remediation 
processes, especially with regard to various com -
plex and/or sensitive issues. 2006 Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Maritha Lorentzon.–
Reduce overtime: Collect information on best 
practice regarding overtime reduction, and investi -
gate how much overtime production units in each 
market have. This data will form the basis of future 
efforts to reduce overtime.2006 and on. Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Maritha Lorentzon.–
Home work: Revise and further develop H&M’s 
guidelines regarding home work. 2006 Maritha Lorentzon,  
Ingrid Schullström.The amended guidelines will 
form the basis for evaluation 
of working conditions of home 
workers. 
Code of Conduct 
completely integrated 
with our business 
operations. Criteria for supplier performance evaluation: revise 
and improve the Code of Conduct ranking factor, 
which is part of H&M’s overall supplier evaluation. 2006 Ingrid Schullström, 
Maritha Lorentzon, 
Lars-Åke Bergqvist, 
Per Vestervall, 
Karl-Gunnar Fagerlin.The aim is to make our method 
of grading suppliers on Code 
of Conduct performance more 
effective and functional. H&M
oUr enViron Mental 
responsibility
This section is divided into two main parts. The first part 
describes our policies and organisation. The second part gives 
an account of projects in the environmental area and environ -
mental performance.
 CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   63
enViron Mental  Mana GeMent
In this section, we present our environmental objectives and policy 
and describe our requirements of transport service providers and 
other business partners. 
Main aspects 
H&M centres its environmental work on two main areas. The first is 
the various environmental aspects associated with the production 
of our goods, especially those related to dyeing and processing of 
fibres and textiles. The other area of focus is energy use, with par -
ticular attention on carbon dioxide emissions which are associated 
with climate change. Transport of H&M goods accounts for about 
half of total carbon dioxide emissions caused by H&M operations. 
The second largest contributor to carbon dioxide emissions is elec -
tricity use, mainly in our around 1,200 stores. 
enViron Mental ob JeCtiVes
environmental awareness:  Promotion of environmental awareness 
among our employees and suppliers.
respect for nature: Caution in decision-making out of respect for 
nature.
sustainable use of resources:  Resource conservation, recycling and 
reduction of waste.
Healthy products: Products that are safe to use and harmless to the 
environment.
Clean production chain:  Sustainable production and production 
 methods throughout the supply chain.
Green transport:  Clean and efficient transport with limited influence 
on the climate.oUr en Viron Mental poli Cy
Continuous improvement is characteristic of all H&M activities. This 
includes our environmental effort, which is conducted within the frame -
work of our business operations. H&M’s business concept is to give 
our customers unsurpassed value by offering fashion and quality at the 
best price. Our quality concept is based on ensuring that our customers 
are satisfied with our products and with H&M as a company. 
To this end, we are committed to acting responsibly in our com -
munity. We also aim to cooperate with our suppliers on improving the 
social and environmental standards in the factories that manufacture 
H&M clothing, thereby contributing to sustainable development in these 
areas. To achieve this goal, H&M has adopted the following principles. 
We shall: 
… always consider the health and safety of our employees. By adopting 
the precautionary principle, we will continuously update our restrictions 
against the use of environmentally and health hazardous chemicals in 
the production of our garments and other products.
… continuously update ourselves on environmental news and legisla -
tion. We will not be content to follow existing environmental legislation, 
but will in certain areas do more than the law requires. 
… conduct our business in a manner that utilises natural resources as 
efficiently as possible.
… develop new and continuously improve existing environmental 
requirements concerning the purchase of products and services.
… train, inform and motivate our employees to participate and take 
responsibility, thereby making environmental work an integral part of 
H&M’s daily routines.
… specify to our suppliers our position regarding behaviour towards the 
environment and human rights and follow up to ensure that our suppli -
ers improve their operations in line with these requirements. CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   64
environmental requirements for transport service providers 
Generally, H&M cooperates with one transport service provider per 
country of production and means of transport. Since 2001, we eval -
uate our transport service providers on a variety of environmental 
factors in order to improve their environmental performance. 
Our requirements are gradually becoming stricter. From 1 January  
2005, the following minimum requirements apply to road transport 
service providers. 
n  Road transport for H&M must be carried out with vehicles which 
meet the requirements of Euro 1 or US 91. 
n  All vehicles purchased must meet the requirements of Euro 3 or US 
98.
n  Diesel with maximum sulphur content of 500 ppm (0.050%) for USA 
and Canada and 350 ppm (0.035%) for other countries.
n  Instructions to drivers on what fuel quality to use.
n  At least 50 per cent of all drivers must have received theoretical and 
practical training on fuel-efficient driving, i.e. eco-driving. 
n  Company policy banning idling in excess of one minute.  
As of 1 January 2006, road transport for H&M must be carried out 
using vehicles which meet the requirements of Euro 2 or US 94. 
During 2005, we carried out several checks of engine type and 
vehicle age at our distribution centres in ten of our sales countries. 
We found one deviation from the Euro 1/US 91 requirements. 
environmental requirements for store equipment suppliers 
H&M sets minimum environmental standards when purchasing 
store equipment. Apart from legal requirements, we also apply 
a number of H&M specific environmental requirements. The following materials, metals, and chemicals should be avoided 
in the manufacturing of store equipment or in the finished products:
n  Materials: Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), halogen-based plastic 
materials, paper-based materials processed with chlorine or 
chlorine derivates and wood from tropical rainforest (unless 
FSC labelled). 
n  Metals: Lead, chrome (especially Cr6+), cadmium, mercury.
n  Chemicals: Bisphenol A, brominated or chlorinated flame-
retardants, e.g. polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybromi -
nated diphenyl ether (PBDE), octabromodiphenyl (octaBDE), 
tetraethylene pentamine (TEPA), tris(2-carboxyethyl) phospine 
hydrochloride (TCEP), bis(2,3dibromopropyl) phosphate, chlo -
roparaffins, chlorinated or aromatic organic solvents, ozone 
depleting compounds, nonylphenolethoxylates (NPE) and for -
maldehyde. 
In addition to this general position, there are some fields of appli -
cation where we have banned the use of the above-mentioned 
materials, metals and chemicals. There is a guideline on first choice 
materials, metals and chemicals that should be used instead in 
order to obtain more environmentally adapted products. 
environmental requirements for it product suppliers 
In order to be able to make environmentally sound choices when 
purchasing IT products, H&M requires that all products offered 
to us are accompanied by an it eco Declaration . The IT Eco 
Declaration is a system for declaration of environmental aspects of 
IT and telecom products, developed by the Nordic IT organisations, 
IT-Företagen in Sweden, ITB in Denmark, IKT-Norge in Norway and 
TTK ry in Finland. The IT Eco Declaration includes information on 
the environmental practices of the manufacturer as well as environ - CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   65
mental features of their products. Nemko Group, a Norwegian firm 
that offers testing, inspection and certification services, randomly 
selects and examines 25 per cent of all companies that submit IT 
Eco declarations to verify that the information is accurate. 
H&M has developed an evaluation model to assess the informa -
tion in the declarations. Our evaluation model takes into account 
legal standards as well as additional H&M requirements. 
environmental information to employees
Our environmental information is communicated through a number 
of channels. Employees who make decisions with potentially 
greater impact on the environment receive more in-depth educa -
tion. For other employees we mainly focus on awareness raising. 
Communication channels include:  
n  Key group education: During 2005, our graphic designers and 
plastic bags buyer received education about the eU directive 
(94/62/ eC) on packaging and packaging waste. 
n  Training at the buying office: This training takes place approxi -
mately twice a year.
n  H&M Wallpaper is our news billboard. It is found on walls near 
lunchrooms and other social areas in the entire company. 
n  H&M’s intranet site: All H&M offices have access to the intranet. 
n  H&M’s Internet site. iso-certification 
H&M’s environmental management system is not ISO-certified. 
Although we consider it important to have a systematic approach, 
our focus is to reduce our environmental impact by keeping to sim -
ple and viable methods. n CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   66
enViron Mental  aCtiVities  
anD per ForManCe
This section describes our environmental activities and perform -
ance in terms of projects and tangible results. We describe five 
projects, and report on carbon dioxide emissions, and recycled 
cardboard and hangers. Finally, we explain the reasons for omitting 
other environmental aspects.
our Code of Conduct sets environmental requirements
H&M’s Code of Conduct includes environmental requirements. 
When we audit facilities to verify compliance with local environ -
mental law and our Code of Conduct, we focus on four main areas: 
environmental law and permits, chemicals, wastewater treatment 
and waste management. 
We begin by reviewing factories’ permits. We also examine how 
chemicals are handled. The focus is on workers’ safety and on 
chemical emissions to water and into the ground. To evaluate this, 
we check whether and how chemical containers are labelled, and 
if there are material safety data sheets (MSDS). We also check 
whether the MSDSs have been implemented, i.e. if workers have 
been trained in safe chemical handling, and if they use protective 
equipment. We require that factories with wet processes such as 
dyeing or washing use wastewater treatment plants. The sludge 
that the plants produce must be handled according to legislation. 
Finally, we check whether the factories handle hazardous waste in 
a responsible manner and send it to an authorised company. 
The findings from this year’s FAP audits are presented on page 37.
enViron Mental  pro JeCts
promoting cleaner production
H&M has incorporated sound chemical management in its CSR 
agenda. This includes our chemical restriction lists for textile, leather, 
plastic and metal products (see page 55), and for cosmetics and hygiene products (see page 56). We also address the use of chemi -
cals in the manufacturing processes by verifying compliance with 
our environmental requirements set out in the H&M Code of Conduct 
through audits at our suppliers’ and their subcontractors’ factories. 
In the last few years, we have expanded our scope further by 
beginning to address production stages further up the supply 
chain, namely fabric production. We began by working with four 
vertically integrated suppliers1 to evaluate the possibilities for 
reducing the environmental impact of fabric production, focusing 
on water pollution from fabric dyeing and other wet processes. We 
concluded that cleaner production (CP) is the most effective meas -
ure, both because it is a preventive approach, and because savings 
on energy, water and chemicals can create a financial incentive for 
fabric mills to participate without the commercial pressure from a 
direct buyer, such as ourselves. 
“H&M has incorporated sound chemical 
management in its C sr agenda.”
During 2004, we worked on developing both technical and man -
agement measures for cleaner production. The technical measures 
were suggested changes to production processes, whereas the 
management measures were necessary changes to the organisa -
tion, for instance the establishment of a responsible team and 
the introduction of measuring routines. We collaborated with the 
Dutch consultancy beco Group and the Wuppertal institute in 
Germany. 
In March 2005, we held a workshop in collaboration with the 
local Unep /UniDo national Cleaner production Centre2 
(NCPC) to introduce the CP programme to six textile mills in India 
that supply some of H&M’s major garment suppliers. Next, H&M 1   A company that controls two 
or more different stages in 
the production process of 
a product. In this context, it 
means that a supplier controls 
other steps (e.g. textile dyeing) 
in addition to garment manu -
facturing. 
2   The UNIDO (United Nations 
Industrial Development 
Organization)/UNEP (United 
Nations Environment 
Programme) National Cleaner 
Production Centre (NCPC) 
programme was established in 
1994 to build local capacity to 
implement cleaner production 
in developing countries and 
economies in transition. There 
are 24 NCPCs, and about 50 
local bilateral CPCs. CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   67
environmental representatives visited the mills in order to present 
the low-hanging fruit1 (LHF) tool, and to evaluate the potential for 
improvement in each mill’s use of energy, water and chemicals. 
The evaluation system that we use comprises 36 technical and five 
management measures that assess various processes within a 
fabric mill. The system also has protocols for monitoring the types 
and volumes of chemicals used. Subsequently, all textile mills but 
one submitted one-year action plans, where they specified their 
choice of cleaner production options based on the LHF tool. To 
begin with, H&M will track and evaluate progress made every other 
month for 12 months. 
Later in the year, assisted by the nCpC based in beijing and 
the Beijing Institute for Designing of Textile Mills, we investigated 
the possibilities of introducing the CP programme to fabric mills in 
China. We were able to engage six Chinese mills and duplicated 
the process that we had applied in India. 
Our next step is to implement the CP programme in Bangladesh 
during 2006. We will also present the concept of cleaner produc -
tion to vertically integrated H&M suppliers. In this way, we will 
familiarise ourselves with the supplier-textile mill interaction, which 
will enable us to encourage our suppliers to assume responsib ility 
for introducing the CP programme to the textile mills that they 
source from. We will also revise the tools in order to enhance their 
applicability and ease of use. Finally, we will add a number of more 
challenging measures to motivate well-performing textile mills to 
improve even more.H&M participates in the bsr apparel Water  
Quality Working Group
H&M participates in Business for Social Responsibility’s (BSR) 
Apparel Water Quality Working Group (AWQWG). The AWQWG 
is committed to responsible practices concerning water use and 
wastewater discharge in textile and apparel supply chains around 
the world. H&M takes part in the project to help secure a common 
and comprehensible wastewater quality standard intended for sup -
pliers across the global apparel supply chain. 
At present, the working group consists of seven global apparel 
retailers and brands. Using commonly developed Water Quality 
Guidelines, the group aims to lessen or mitigate the negative 
environmental impacts associated with water use and wastewater 
discharge.
During 2005, the working group received feedback from a range 
of external stakeholders, reviewed other legal and company-spe -
cific wastewater guidelines, conducted impact analysis of pollutant 
impacts, testing methods and feasibility, and completed the BSR 
Water Quality Guidelines. The guidelines are now to be endorsed 
by the participating companies.
The work began as early as in 1995, when BSR formed a 
first working group engaging several companies in the apparel 
industry to investigate how the environmental impact in the global 
textile and apparel supply chains could be reduced. Wastewater 
discharge was found to be a top priority. More precisely, the 
group discovered that there was no consistent policy or guideline 
covering wastewater quality requirements, and that regulation and 
enforcement varied substantially between countries. Therefore, 
the working group concluded that developing global water quality 
standards would be an effective way of reducing environmental 
impact. 1   A tool to address the simplest, 
most readily solvable issues or 
objectives.  CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   68
The BSR Water Quality Guidelines clearly outline expectations for 
the environmental performance of fabric mills and laundries regard -
ing wastewater. In order to encourage and facilitate responsible 
water and wastewater management, the AWQWG also developed 
guidance documents that outline effective testing methods, as well 
as so called Pollutant Fact Sheets. There is a fact sheet available 
for each pollutant included in the Guidelines that comprises a gen -
eral description, causes and potential health and/or environmental 
impacts. 
Read more about water issues at bsr ’s website .
H&M uses the eU eco-label “Flower”
As of June 2005, H&M holds a licence to use the Flower, the official 
eco-label of the European Union. The Flower stands for restriction 
of hazardous substances and reduced water pollution throughout 
the production chain, from the raw cotton to the finished product. 
In addition, the label’s quality criteria represent the garments’ 
ability to keep their shape and colour. All products in the H&M 
collection will as always also be covered by H&M’s own chemical 
restrictions in order to minimise or exclude the use of substances 
that may be harmful to the health and/or to the environment.
The following garments from our newborn baby range were 
labelled with the Flower: 2-pack helmet, 2-pack wrap body and 
2-pack trousers in white and beige. Our plan for 2005 was to mark 
approximately 250,000 garments. However, as we only managed 
to receive a licence for one of two suppliers, the actual number 
of eco-labelled garments was lower than expected, about 75,000 
pieces. 
In 2006, we will expand the range of eco-labelled clothing for 
newborns. Helmets, wrap bodies and trousers will be available in 
blue, pink and yellow. We also plan to apply for a licence to use the 
Flower on products that will be manufactured by a supplier in India, and investigate the options of labelling certain 
products of a Chinese supplier.
More information about the Flower is avail -
able at www.eco-label.com . 
H&M increases use of organic cotton
We are aware of the negative environmental 
impact of conventional cotton farming. To sup -
port the increase in world demand for organi -
cally grown cotton, H&M continues to include 
five per cent certified organic cotton in certain 
baby and children’s garments from Turkey. The yarn used for these 
garments contains five per cent organic cotton but the garments do 
not carry a special label.
In 2005, we planned to use at least 20 tonnes of organic cotton 
in our products, a significant increase on the five tonnes used in 
2004. At the end of the year, we had exceeded this target by more 
than 100 per cent, having used over 40 tonnes of organic cotton in 
our products. 
In November 2005, H&M launched a collection designed by 
Stella McCartney. We were very happy that one t-shirt in this 
collection, by her request, was made of 100 per cent organically 
grown cotton. 
At the end of 2005, we were still working on a broader strategy 
for sustainable cotton, including H&M’s participation in the Better 
Cotton Initiative (see next page). We had therefore not yet estab -
lished a quantitative target for organic cotton use in 2006, but the 
ambition was at a very minimum to maintain the volume from 2005. 
In October 2005, H&M co-sponsored and participated in the 
organic exchange’s conference  on organic cotton in Izmir, Turkey. 
Although we are gradually increasing our use of organic cot -
ton, most of the world’s cotton is still grown using pesticides and 
 CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   69
synthetic fertilizers. H&M wishes to contribute to improving con -
ventional cotton farming practices. This is why we have signed up 
to the Better Cotton Initiative.
better Cotton initiative
H&M participates in the Better Cotton Initiative, which is a multi-
stakeholder collaboration whose mission is to measurably reduce 
the key environmental and social impacts of cotton cultivation.  
The Better Cotton Initiative will define, develop and encourage 
the adoption of practical, performance-based standards for cotton 
cultivation on a global scale.
The group recognises the wide array of issues connected with 
cotton cultivation and the need to relate such global standards to 
local circumstances. In order to effectively address the key impacts 
of cotton cultivation, the Better Cotton Initiative will initially focus 
on the most significant issues in cotton cultivation while striving for 
continuous improvement over time.
During 2005 H&M took an active role in the group as member of 
the Steering Committee.
 CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   70
enViron Mental  per ForManCe
Carbon dioxide data
We have included the following elements in our carbon dioxide data: 
n  Electricity in the entire company, where H&M purchases directly 
from the supplier
n  Heating of distribution centres (DC), where H&M purchases 
directly from the supplier
n  Transport of goods (by road, rail, sea, and air)
n  Business travel and mileage reimbursement
n  Fuel for vehicles owned by H&M
The stores where H&M purchases electricity direct from the supp -
lier account for 87 per cent of annual turnover. For the remaining 
13 per cent, the cost of electricity is included in the store leases. 
More information about data collection and calculation of carbon 
dioxide figures is available in the annex. 
Carbon dioxide emissions
The list and table below show carbon dioxide emissions caused 
by H&M operations. The bulleted list states carbon dioxide emis -
sions 2001–2005. The table displays emissions in tonnes for 2005 
and 2004, as well as the change in emissions between 2004 and 
2005. The pie charts show each source’s share of total emissions. 
The graph displays carbon dioxide emissions in relation to annual 
turnover.n  2001: 124,611 tonnes (excluding air and sea/air transport)
n  2002: 158,690 tonnes (excluding air and sea/air transport)
n  2003: 204,040 tonnes 
n  2004: 241,583 tonnes 
n  2005: 298,581 tonnes
Co2 emissions in tonnes  by source 2005 2004 Change
Heat for DCs 8,571 7,588 13.0%
Fuels for heating of DCs 3,028 2,900 4.4%
Electricity (entire company) 117,647 111,019 6.0%
Transports (road, sea, rail) 83,149 63,834 30.3%
Transports (air, sea/air) 71,131 44,349 60.4%
Business travel and mileage reimbursement  12,709 9,953 27.7%
Fuels for vehicles owned by H&M 2,346 1,940 20.9%
  298,581 241,583 23.6%	 CSR 	 2005 	–	OUR 	 ENVIRONMENTAL 	 RESPONSIBILITY   71
n 	Electricity 	 (entire 	 company)	 39.4%
n 	Road, 	 sea, 	 rail 	 transports	 27.8%
n 	Air,	sea/air 	 transports	 23.8%
n 	Transports 	 of 	 personnel	 4.3%
n 	Heat 	 for 	 DCs 	 	 2.9%
n 	Fuels 	 for 	 heating 	 of 	 DCs	 1.0%
n 	Fuels 	 for 	 vehicles 	 owned 	 by 	 H&M	 0.8%Contribution to total carbon dioxide emissions by source 2005
n 	Electricity 	 (entire 	 company)	 46.0%
n 	Road, 	 sea, 	 rail 	 transports	 26.4%
n 	Air,	sea/air 	 transports	 18.4%
n 	Transports 	 of 	 personnel	 4.1%
n 	Heat 	 for 	 DCs 	 	 3.1%
n 	Fuels 	 for 	 heating 	 of 	 DCs	 1.2%
n 	Fuels 	 for 	 vehicles 	 owned 	 by 	 H&M	 0.8%Contribution to total carbon dioxide emissions by source 2004
012345
2005 2004 2003Kilograms carbon dioxide emissions per SEK 1,000 turnover
Carbon 	 dioxide 	 emissions 	 increased 	 from 	 241,583 	 tonnes 	 in 	 2004 	
to	298,581 	 tonnes 	 in 	 2005, 	 i.e. 	 by 	 23.6 	 per 	 cent. 	 During 	 the 	 same 	
period, 	 annual 	 turnover 	 including 	 VAT 	 increased 	 by 	 14.1 	 per 	 cent 	
from 	 MSEK 	 62,986 	 to 	 MSEK 	 71,886. 	 Consequently, 	 H&M 	 activities 	
caused 	 4.15 	 kilograms 	 of 	 carbon 	 dioxide 	 emissions 	 per 	 SEK 	 1,000 	
turnover. 	 This 	 can 	 be 	 compared 	 with 	 3.83 	 kg 	 CO2/SEK 	 1,000 	 in 	
2004, 	 i.e. 	 an 	 8.4 	 per 	 cent 	 increase. 	 During 	 the 	 year, 	 the 	 number 	
of	purchased 	 pieces 	 (excluding 	 cosmetic 	 and 	 hygiene 	 products) 	
increased 	 by 	 6.4 	 per 	 cent.
Transportation 	 of 	 H&M 	 goods 	 accounts 	 for 	 about 	 half 	 (51.7 	 per 	
cent) 	 of 	 total 	 carbon 	 dioxide 	 emissions. 	 Transport 	 by 	 road, 	 sea, 	
and	rail 	 represents 	 27.9 	 per 	 cent, 	 and 	 air 	 and 	 sea/air 	 transports 	
make 	 up 	 23.8 	 per 	 cent 	 of 	 the 	 total. 	 The 	 corresponding 	 figures 	 for 	
2004 	 were 	 26.4 	 per 	 cent 	 and 	 18.4 	 per 	 cent 	 respectively. 	 Purchased 	
electricity 	 for 	 the 	 entire 	 company 	 makes 	 up 	 39.4 	 per 	 cent 	 of 	 total 	
emissions, 	 which 	 is 	 6.6 	 per 	 cent 	 less 	 than 	 in 	 2004. 	 This 	 relative 	 CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   72
decrease is mainly due to the consumption of cleaner electricity in 
Germany. The share of total emissions from all other carbon diox -
ide emission sources essentially remains unchanged compared 
with the previous year. 
Seen in absolute terms, carbon dioxide emissions from all 
sources have increased. Emissions from fuels for heating of DCs 
and electricity increased by 4.4 and 6.0 per cent, respectively. 
However, as annual turnover has increased by 14.1 per cent, these 
figures represent a relative decrease in emissions. The CO2/turn -
over quotients for emissions caused by heat for DCs, transports 
of personnel, and fuels for H&M-owned vehicles remain practi -
cally the same compared to 2004. Emissions from transport of 
goods, by air and sea/air in particular, have increased noticeably. 
CO2 caused by air and sea/air transports increased from 44,349 
tonnes in 2004 to 71,131 tonnes in 2005. However, nearly half of the 
increase (10,474 out of 26,782 tonnes) is due to improvements in 
data collection. More information about data collection is available 
in the annex. 
bringing carbon dioxide emissions into focus
In our previous CSR report, we announced that we had set a target 
to reduce CO2 emissions by 10 per cent (on comparable figures) 
between 2005 and 2009. Looking at this year’s figures it is obvious 
that we have moved in the opposite direction in the first year. 
During 2005, we decided to concentrate on one of the major 
emission sources, energy. We analysed the potential for reduction 
of energy use in our stores and distribution centres, and found sub -
stantial scope for savings. We will carry out a number of activities 
to reduce CO2 emissions during 2006. These efforts should have a 
positive effect on the emissions figures in our next CSR report. 
Emissions caused by transport, the other major source, have 
increased substantially. During 2006, we will therefore focus our attention on ways to reduce emissions from transport, in particular 
air and sea/air transport. 
Direct energy use
Energy use is continuously on the agenda, not least from a cost 
perspective. In addition, there is a clear link between cutting energy 
use and reducing carbon dioxide emissions. The table below 
shows H&M’s direct energy use in gig joules. 
Direct energy use in GJ by source 2005  2004
Heat for distribution centres 94,572 86,198
Fuels for heating of distribution centres 30,607 29,967
Fuels for vehicles owned by H&M 31,720 26,260
Electricity (entire company) 1,540,167 1,302,087
  1,697,066 1,444,512
Waste management
Solid waste is a significant aspect in our stores and at our distribu -
tion centres. Waste handling in our stores differs depending on 
sales country. In Norway, for example, the vast majority of the 
stores use the waste handling system of the shopping centre or 
landlord. In the USA, on the other hand, more than half of the 
stores have a separate contract with a waste handling company. In 
Germany, over half of the waste is sent back to H&M’s warehouse. 
As a result of this complexity, we find it difficult to measure, com -
pare and report on how different types of waste are handled. 
We are however able to present figures on recycled cardboard 
and clothes hangers, as these types of waste are mainly collected 
at our distribution centres. The increase in cardboard collected and 
recycled at our distribution centres was 5.4 per cent, which can be 
compared to a 6.4 per cent increase in volumes.  CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   73
year Cardboard in tonnes Change
2002 12,342 –
2003 13,502 9.4%
2004 15,207 12.6%
2005 16,028 5.4%
 
In 2005, we recycled 3,142 tonnes of hangers, which corresponds 
to 67.1 per cent of purchased hangers. We reuse the rest in our 
stores. Hangers can be recycled in various ways. Our DCs send the 
hangers to e.g. recycling plants, or directly to hanger manufactur -
ers that grind them and use the scrap to produce new hangers. We 
manage this process with the environment in mind. In Sweden for 
instance, we compress the hangers to achieve transports that are 
more efficient. Consequently, we are able to transport about 12–14 
tonnes of hangers at one time, compared with 3–5 tonnes per 
transport if the hangers are not compressed. omitted environmental aspects
H&M sells garments and accessories to the consumer market. 
At present, it is not feasible to monitor and measure emissions 
generated by use and disposal of our products. Nor is it possible 
to measure the emissions caused in our supply chain. The sewing 
and assembling of garments alone employs approximately 2,000 
production units, and it is not feasible to collect and report reliable 
figures from these production units. 
Use of water and emissions to water are significant aspects in 
the production and use of garments. We gather information regard -
ing the use and discharge of water in the course of production in 
connection with our audits, but we are presently not able to aggre -
gate and report on these figures. 
Nitrogen oxide (NOX) and sulphur oxide (SOX) emissions are 
mostly related to transport. Evaluating features like engine type 
and fuel type is at this point too complex. Nevertheless, we strive 
to reduce the emissions by setting minimum requirements for our 
transport service providers’ engine and fuel types. n CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   74
obJeCtiVe tarGet tiMe FraMe responsible CoMMent /sCope FUlFilMent
Environmental 
awarenessKey group education 31 January 2005 Eva Skytt Package designers will be educated in 
2005.Done within time frame. 
Develop environmental 
education programme 
aimed at our suppliers.  31 December 2005 Henrik Lampa The programme will include waste water 
treatment, chemical handling and waste 
management. In progress. The educa -
tion programme will be 
rolled out during 2006. 
Respect for 
natureReduction of CO2 emis -
sions from H&M direct and 
indirect sources by 10 per 
cent. 31 December 2009 Eva Skytt, 
Ingrid Schullström.Read more on page 54 in the 2004 CSR 
Report.In progress; during 
2005, we have focused 
on electricity consump -
tion in stores.
Sustainable 
resource useChemical ban list and 
phase out list is to be used 
in store and distribution 
centre build and rebuild 
projects.31 December 2005 Project managers in 
the sales countries.– Done within time frame. 
Updated version of H&M’s 
chemical restrictions (ap -
plies to H&M products). 30 June 2005 Elin Robling The restricted substances list is to be 
updated to contain additional chemical 
substances. Done in October 2005. 
Healthy products Include 20 tonnes of orga-
nic cotton in our products. 31 October 2005 Ingrid Schullström Read more on page 54 in the 2004 CSR 
Report.Done within time frame. 
Read more on page 68.
Clean supply 
chainStart to sell EU Flower 
labelled baby garments.31 December 2005 Eva Skytt The use of the EU Flower label will be 
evaluated during the year.Done within time frame. 
Cleaner production pro -
gramme for fabric mills. 31 December 2005 Ingrid Schullström Initially, our aim is to research the pilot 
fabric mills in order to identify areas 
where improvements can be made. Done within time frame.
Green transports Include traffic safety ques -
tions (regarding e.g. drug 
and alcohol policies) in our 
environmental declaration 
for road transports.31 December 2005 Eva Skytt The update of the environmental dec -
laration will be done during 2005. The 
declarations will be distributed to our 
transport service providers in early 2006.Done within time frame.enViron Mental  tarGets 2005:  
FUlFilMent
These are the targets that 
the CSR department had 
set for 2005. The table 
shows our progress against 
these targets. CSR 2005 – OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY   75
enViron Mental  tarGets 2006  
anD onWarDs
The targets described here 
are the ones that are spe -
cific to the CSR department 
at a corporate level. Each 
production office has tar -
gets and activities relevant 
to their own market.obJeCtiVe tarGet tiMe FraMe responsible CoMMent /sCope
Environmental 
awarenessRoll out the chemical and environmental 
education programme aimed at our sup -
pliers. 31 December 2006 Henrik Lampa Wastewater treatment and safe chemical hand-
ling workshops will be adapted according to type 
of production and target audience. 
Respect for nature Reduction of CO2 emissions from H&M 
direct and indirect sources by 10 per cent 
on comparable figures. 31 December 2009 Mikael Blommé,
Ingrid Schullström.Measured in kilograms of carbon dioxide emis -
sions per SEK 1,000 annual turnover. The base 
year has been set to 2004. During 2006, we will 
focus our efforts on targeting energy use in our 
stores.
Integrate chemical phase out list, ban list 
and the other environmental requirements 
in building description. 30 April 2006 Mikael Blommé The chemical lists were formulated during 2005 
but implementation has been partially delayed.
Sustainable re -
source useTest H&M plastic consumer bags made 
of biodegradable material in at least one 
sales country. 31 December 2006 Eva Skytt,  
Viveca Kleebinder.–
Healthy products Update the H&M Restrictions for 
Cosmetic and Hygiene Products (H&M 
Products). 31 December 2006 Karin Sundberg The revised restrictions for H&M’s own cosmetic 
and hygiene products will include e.g. addi -
tional restrictions on preservatives, metals and 
fragrances. 
Clean supply chain Increase the scope of the cleaner produc -
tion programme by including vertical sup -
pliers in China, India and Bangladesh. 30 June 2006 Harsha Vardhan –
Endorse Business for Social Responsibil -
ity (BSR) Water Quality Guidelines.31 March 2006 Henrik Lampa The BSR Water Quality Guidelines will be part of 
H&M’s requirements on production units with wet 
processes.
Green transports Map the potential for reducing CO2 emis -
sions caused by transportation of H&M 
goods. 31 December 2006 Anders Tell,  
Mikael Blommé.–
 H&M
anne X	 CSR 	 2005 	–	ANNEX   77
The GRI guidelines
In	preparing 	 this 	 report 	 we 	 have 	 relied 	 on 	 the 	 Sustainability 	
Reporting 	 Guidelines 	 (2002) 	 issued 	 by 	 the 	 Global 	 Reporting 	
Initiative 	 (GRI). 	 The 	 GRI 	 index 	 on 	 page 	 79 	 helps 	 readers 	 to 	 identify 	
the	location 	 of 	 reported 	 information 	 listed 	 in 	 the 	 GRI 	 Guidelines. 	
Reporting period
This	 report 	 covers 	 the 	 year 	 of 	 2005, 	 unless 	 stated 	 otherwise. 	
Financial 	 data 	 refer 	 to 	 H&M’s 	 fiscal 	 year, 	 which 	 began 	 1 	 December 	
2004 	 and 	 ended 	 30 	 November 	 2005. 	
Reporting boundaries
The	information 	 provided 	 in 	 the 	 “About 	 our 	 company” 	 section 	 refers 	
to	the 	 H&M 	 group 	 as 	 a 	 whole, 	 and 	 provides 	 basic 	 facts 	 about 	 the 	
company. 	 The 	 information 	 presented 	 in 	 “Our 	 social 	 responsibility” 	
covers 	 our 	 monitoring 	 and 	 remediation 	 efforts 	 in 	 the 	 supply 	 chain, 	
whereas 	 “Our 	 environmental 	 responsibility” 	 accounts 	 for 	 H&M’s 	
environmental 	 projects 	 in 	 the 	 supply 	 chain, 	 certain 	 aspects 	 of 	 the 	
environmental 	 performance 	 of 	 our 	 transport 	 service 	 providers 	 and 	
H&M 	 distribution 	 centres 	 and 	 stores 	 in 	 our 	 sales 	 countries. 	
Previous reports
H&M’s 	 CSR 	 reports 	 for 	 the 	 years 	 of 	 2002, 	 2003, 	 and 	 2004 	 are 	 avail-
able	 at 	www.hm.com/csr .	Additional information
Additional 	 information 	 about 	 economic, 	 social 	 and 	 environmental 	
aspects 	 of 	 H&M’s 	 activities 	 can 	 be 	 obtained 	 from 	 the 	 following 	 sources:
n		H&M’s website
n		Annual Report 2005 
n		Fact sheets and list of restricted chemicals 
n		Previous CSR reports 
n		H&M’s 	 CSR 	 department 	 (see 	 contact 	 information 	 below)
Independent assurance
The	H&M 	 CSR 	 Report 	 is 	 an 	 integral 	 part 	 of 	 our 	 CSR 	 work. 	 The 	 report -
ing	process 	 helps 	 us 	 to 	 highlight 	 the 	 areas 	 that 	 we 	 need 	 to 	 focus 	 on 	
within 	 our 	 organisation, 	 and 	 helps 	 us 	 set 	 and 	 follow 	 up 	 targets. 	
We	recognise 	 that 	 external 	 assurance 	 would 	 add 	 credibility 	 to 	
our	reporting 	 and 	 we 	 do 	 not 	 exclude 	 the 	 possibility 	 of 	 having 	 the 	
report 	 verified 	 in 	 the 	 future. 	 However, 	 we 	 currently 	 prefer 	 to 	 focus 	
on	improving 	 our 	 CSR 	 performance 	 rather 	 than 	 spending 	 resources 	
on	an 	 external 	 assurance 	 process. 	
We	have 	 an 	 open 	 attitude 	 towards 	 stakeholders 	 who 	 contact 	
us	with 	 follow-up 	 questions. 	 In 	 an 	 effort 	 to 	 make 	 this 	 report 	 more 	
trustworthy, 	 we 	 invited 	 four 	 different 	 stakeholders 	 to 	 provide 	 feed-
back 	 on 	 our 	 CSR 	 reporting. 	 Read 	 their 	 statements 	 on 	 page 	 43. 	
Contact persons for this report
Ingrid 	 Schullström: 	ingrid.schullstrom@hm.com
Karolina 	 Dubowicz: 	karolina.dubowicz@hm.com
H	&	M 	 Hennes 	 & 	 Mauritz 	 AB 	 (Publ.)
Postal 	 address: 	 Salén 	 – 	 HK, 	 106 	 38 	 Stockholm, 	 Sweden
Telephone 	 (switchboard): 	 +46 	 8 	 796 	 55 	 00 	
Fax:	 +46 	 8 	 20 	 99 	 19
E-mail: 	info@hm.com
Website: 	www.hm.comABOUT THIS REPORT CSR 2005 – ANNEX   78
We have included the following emission sources in our carbon 
dioxide figures: electricity in the entire company (where H&M 
purchases directly from the supplier), heating of distribution cen -
tres (where H&M purchases directly from the supplier), transport 
of goods (by road, rail, sea and air), business travel and mileage 
reimbursement, and fuel for vehicles owned by H&M. The stores 
where H&M purchases electricity direct from the supplier account 
for 87 per cent of annual turnover. For the remaining 13 per cent, 
the cost of electricity is included in store leases. At present, we are 
not able to obtain carbon dioxide figures for stores where we do 
not purchase electricity ourselves. 
Data collection and calculation of emissions
Our electricity suppliers provide us with records of electricity 
consumption in kilowatt-hours (kWh) and conversion factors1. We 
use this information to calculate carbon dioxide emissions from our 
electricity consumption. 
Our road transport service providers either submit figures for 
carbon dioxide emissions caused by transport of H&M goods, or 
distances in kilometres and average diesel consumption. Based 
on these figures, we calculate CO2 emissions from road transport. 
Some of our suppliers are also able to report on H&M’s share of 
each transport, which makes the calculations more accurate. 
We calculate carbon dioxide emissions caused by sea transport 
in the same way as road transport. However, our sea transport 
suppliers submit figures on heavy fuel oil purchased and volumes 
of H&M goods transported.
The majority of our rail transport service providers present data 
about H&M’s part of their carbon dioxide emissions. 
Our air transport providers provide information on routes and 
the weight of the goods transported on our behalf. Based on 
this information and the calculation template NTMCalc from the network for transport and the environment , we are able to esti -
mate carbon dioxide emissions caused by our air transport of goods.
Improvements in data management
One of our sea transport suppliers had previously submitted data 
that was not fully accurate. The error has now been corrected, and 
as a result, this particular supplier has provided figures that indi -
cate a 68 per cent increase in carbon dioxide emissions between 
2004 and 2005, even though the increase in volumes was merely 
20 per cent. This supplier’s transports of H&M goods caused 8,820 
tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2004, and 14,799 tonnes in 2005, i.e. an 
increase of 5,979. Taking the 20 per cent increase in volumes into 
account, the aforementioned calculation error accounts for 4,215 
tonnes, i.e. two thirds of the increase in CO2 emissions. 
Another of our sea transport service providers has improved 
its method of calculating distances. As a consequence of this, the 
reported CO2 figures are 72 per cent higher, although volumes 
have increased by only 22 per cent. This supplier’s transports of 
H&M goods produced 6,689 tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2004, and 
11,500 tonnes in 2005, i.e. an increase of 4,811 tonnes. Given the 22 
per cent increase in volumes, 3,335 tonnes of the increase are due 
to improvements in data management. 
Furthermore, 1,080 tonnes of the increase in carbon dioxide emis -
sions caused by road transport is due to a data entry error last year. 
CO2 caused by air and sea/air transports increased from 44,349 
tonnes in 2004 to 71,131 tonnes in 2005. However, nearly half of 
the increase (10,474 out of 26,782 tonnes) is due to improvements 
in data collection. More precisely, we have added four points of 
departure to our CO2 reporting, which means that we now report on 
twelve points of departure. n1   Conversion factors can be 
used in order to convert energy 
consumed in kWh to kilos of 
carbon dioxide.Carbon DioXiDe eMissions:  
Data a CQU isition CSR 2005 – ANNEX   79
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a multi-stakeholder process 
and independent institution whose mission is to develop and dis -
seminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
These guidelines are for voluntary use by organisations for repor -
ting on the economic, environmental, and social dimensions of their 
activities, products and services. 
The table identifies the location of each element of the GRI 
Report Content, by section and indicator. The purpose is to allow 
the reader to locate a specific piece of reported information listed 
in the Guidelines.
 Vision & strate Gy
Gri eleMent paGe
1.1 CSR vision and strategy 7
1.2 Statement from our managing director 6 
pro File
Gri eleMent paGe
2.1 Name of reporting organisation 76
2.2 Major products 9
2.3 Operational structure 19
2.4 Subsidiaries 9
2.5 Countries of operation 11
2.6 Nature of ownership Annual report
2.7 Nature of markets served 9
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 9–11
2.9 Stakeholders 43–48
2.10 Contact persons for the report 76
2.11 Reporting period 76
2.12 Date of previous reports 76
2.13 Boundaries of report  76
2.14 Significant changes Not applicable
2.15 Basis for reporting on joint ventures etc. Not applicable
2.16 Re-statements of information Not applicable
2.17 Decisions not to apply GRI principles Not reported
2.18  Definitions used in accounting  
for environmental costs 72
2.19  Significant changes in measurement  
methods Not applicable
2.20  Policies and practices on accuracy,  
completeness and reliability Not reported
2.21 Policy on independent assurance 76
2.22 Obtaining of additional information 76Gri Content in DeX CSR 2005 – ANNEX   80
GoVernana Ce strUCtUre anD Mana GeMent syste Ms
Gri eleMent paGe
3.1 Governance structure of H&M 16
3.2 Independent, non-executive directors 17
3.3  Process for determining the expertise  
board members need Not reported
3.4  Risk and opportunity management processes  Not reported
3.5  Executive compensation and goal achievement  Not reported
3.6  CSR organisational structure 19
3.7  Mission, values, Code of Conduct, policies 7, 23
3.8   Mechanisms for shareholders to provide  
recommendations or direction  
to the board of directors Not reported
3.9   Identification and selection of major  
stakeholders  Not reported
3.10  Approaches to stakeholder consultation 43–47
3.11   Information generated by stakeholder  
consultation 43–47
3.12   Use of information from stakeholder  
engagements 2, 43
3.13  The precautionary principle 55–56, 63
3.14  External CSR charters etc. endorsed by H&M 20
3.15  Memberships in industry associations 20
3.16   Policies for managing upstream  
and downstream impacts 23–24, 28, 55
3.17   H&M’s approach to managing indirect  
impacts  64–65
3.18  Changes in operations  9
3.19  Programmes pertaining to CSR performance 23–29,  
  33–40, 66–75
3.20   Certification pertaining to economic,  
environmental and social management systems  65eCono MiC perForManCe
Gri eleMent paGe
EC1  Net sales 9
EC2  Geographic breakdown of markets 9
EC3  Cost of all goods etc. purchased Not reported
EC4   Contracts that were paid in  
accordance with agreed terms Not reported
EC5  Total payroll benefits  Not reported
EC6  Distributions to providers of capital Not reported
EC7  Retained earnings Annual report
EC8  Total sum of all taxes paid  Annual report
EC9  Subsidies received Not reported
EC10 Donations to community etc.  49–52
 
enViron Mental perForManCe
Gri eleMent paGe
EN1  Total material use other than water Not reported
EN2  Wastes from external sources Not reported
EN3  Direct energy use by primary source 72
EN4  Indirect energy use Not reported
EN5  Total water use Not reported
EN6  Biodiversity-rich habitats Not reported
EN7  Impacts on biodiversity Not reported
EN8  Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) 70–72
EN9  Ozone-depleting substances Not reported
EN10 NOX, SOX and other air emissions 73
EN11 Total amount of waste  73
EN12 Significant discharges to water Not applicable
EN13 Spills of chemicals, oils and fuels Not reported
EN14 Significant environmental impacts  8, 63 CSR 2005 – ANNEX   81
enViron Mental perForManCe – continued
Gri eleMent paGe
EN15  Percentage of the weight of  
products sold that is reclaimable  
after the products’ useful life Not reported
EN16 Incidents and fines Not reported
EN27 Objectives, programmes, targets 74–75
EN30 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 70–72
EN34  Environmental impacts of transportation  
used for logistical purposes  64, 70–72
 
soCial perForManCe
Gri eleMent paGe
labour practices and decent work 
LA1 Workforce 11
LA2  Net employment creation 11
LA3  Employees represented by unions Not reported
LA4  Policy for employee negotiation Not reported
 in connection to restructuring Not reported
LA5  Occupational accidents and diseases Not reported
LA6  Joint health and safety committees Not reported
LA7  Injury, lost day, absentee rates Not reported
LA8  Policies, programmes on HIV/AIDS Not reported
LA9  Average hours of training per year Not reported
LA10  Equal opportunity policies Not reported
LA11  Composition of senior management 11, 17
 Human rights 
HR1  Human rights (HR) policies etc.  23
HR2  Consideration of HR impacts 28–29
HR3   Policies and procedures to address  
HR performance within the supply chain 23–29
HR4  Anti-discrimination policy 23
HR5  Freedom of association policy 12, 23
HR6  Policy on child labour 23
HR7  Policy on forced labour 23
HR8  Employee training on HR policies Not reported
society  
SO1  Policies to manage impacts on communities Not reported
SO2  Policies to address bribery and corruption 14–15
SO3  Policies for managing lobbying Not reported
 
product responsibility 
PR1   Policy for preserving customer health  
and safety during use of products 53–56
PR2  Policy related to product information 57
PR3  Policy etc. on customer privacy 15
PR9  Advertising policy 59
PR10  Breaches of advertising regulations Not reported
 