Sustainability Disclosure 2021Sharing relevant and accountable information 
about our business practices, supply chain and products is important for tracking our progress and learnings towards a more sustainable future. 
Our reporting includes several components:— An Annual and Sustainability Report  
provides an overview of our financial and non-
financial performance, including our Statutory Sustainability Report.
— This Sustainability Disclosure complements 
our Annual and Sustainability Report by providing additional detailed information about strategy, policies, goals, programmes and performance data. Web content  offers further detail on 
specific sustainability issues, including our strategies and policies. Find links throughout  
this report.About this report 
—  Report Stories  showcase highlights from 
our work. Follow links across this report.
— External reporting frameworks : Global 
Reporting Initiative and UN Guiding Principles 
indexes , and Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures reporting in our Annual and  
Sustainability Report .
This report discloses our goals and performance for the financial year from 1 December 2020  
to 30 November 2021. Read more about the scope of this report in How We Report .
P.2 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE  
POSITIVE
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALHow we Lead the Change
How we Lead the Change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Transparency  ................................... 8
E
ngaging with our stakeholders 
 ................ 10
E
ngaging with policy makers  ................... 11Our approach to sustainability
 
Our approach to sustainability  ................... 4
K
ey sustainability policies and standards  ........ 6
Supply chain management
Supply chain management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Performance highlights
Highlights 2021  ................................. 13
E
xternal assessments 
 .......................... 14
K
PIs: Circular & Climate Positive 
 ................ 15
K
PIs: Fair & Equal 
 ............................... 16How we report
How we report  ................................ 7 0
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
 ............ 71
A
uditor ’s report 
 ............................... 7
2Circular & Climate Positive
 Circular & Climate Positive
 
...................... 17
O
ur Circular & Climate Positive approach 
 ....... 18
C
limate Positive 
 ................................ 19
B
iodiversity  
................................... 25
Wa
ter ......................................... 27
O
ur circular ecosystem  ....................... 29
C
ircular products: 
— Design  ..................................... 30
— M
aterial choice  .............................. 31
—
 Microfibres  ................................. 36
C
ircular supply chain:
— Optimising resource use 
 .................... 37
— M
aterials processing  ....................... 39
— C
hemicals 
 .................................. 4
0Circular customer journey: — Maximising product life & scaling circular business models 
 ............................... 41
C
ircular products, supply chain &  
customer journey:— Stores, distribution centres & offices
 ........ 44
— P
ackaging 
 .................................. 45Fair & Equal
Fair & Equal  ..................................... 47
O
ur approach to being Fair & Equal 
 ............ 48
R
especting & advancing human rights 
 ......... 49
I
nclusion & diversity  ............................ 51
F
air jobs in our own operations  ................ 55
F
air jobs in our production supply chain  ....... 57Contents 
P.3 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORTWe are continuing to work towards our goal to 
make fashion and design accessible to the many, in a way that’s good for people, the planet, our industry and our business. Our sustainability strategy guides us as we work to lead the change towards a circular and climate positive fashion industry while being a fair and equal company.
We achieved several milestones in 2021. We are 
now working to achieve net-zero greenhouse  
gas emissions ,
1 as part of our climate positive 
approach. We previewed our new circular design tool , Circulator, and developed country-
specific wage strategies in our production supply chain that consider national contexts and legal settings. The Covid-19 pandemic has continued to underline the importance of accelerating our sustainability agenda.The way we report on sustainability has also progressed. This year, we published our first combined Annual and Sustainability Report, taking another step on our journey to integrate sustainability into every part of our business.  
Read our Annual and Sustainability Report  for 
more detail on our sustainability vision and strategy and how it supports our business, and information on our sustainability governance.  Our approach to 
sustainability  
CIRCULAR AND  
CLIMATE POSITIVEFAIR AND EQUAL
RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTSOur vision is to lead the change towards a circular 
and climate positive fashion industry while being  
a fair and equal company.
—  Fair jobs for all
—  Inclusive and diverse workplaces  
and communities— Climate positive approach across our value 
chain, operating within planetary boundaries
—  Net positive impact on biodiversity
—  Circular ecosystem for our products,  
supply chains and customer journeys— Scale innovation
— Promote transparency
— Engage and partner for industrywide progressLEADING THE CHANGEOur sustainability strategy
1)  Ne t-zero as defined by Science Based T argets initiative's  
Net-Zero Standard.
P.4 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021A message from our CEO
This year is the first year that we at the 
H&M group are integrating our annual and sustainability reports. This is an important step, but also a natural development since sustainability has been an integral part of our business for a long time.
To meet customers’ ever-increasing 
expectations, we are continuing to  
develop the customer offering for all our unique brands by offering customers the best combination of fashion, quality, price and sustainability. Demand for good value and sustainable products is expected to grow and our customer offering is well positioned for this. Among other things, customers can today carry out repairs,  
rent clothes or buy and sell second-hand.
I would like to thank all colleagues in 
the group for their efforts over the past year. Our colleagues everywhere in the organisation have demonstrated great commitment and worked to meet customers’ expectations despite the challenges, restrictions and lockdowns due to the pandemic. We are proud that our strong recovery continued in 2021 with much appreciated collections and products, continued customer focus and strong relations with our partners.A message from our  
Head of Sustainability
I’m pleased to present the 2021 H&M Group Sustainability Disclosure, detailing our priorities, progress and learnings on key environmental and social issues over the past year. We share the growing sense of urgency with many around the world who recognise the fashion industry needs to move faster towards circularity and continue to work to develop a fairer, more transparent and traceable supply chain. 
This year, we accelerated our net-zero 
ambitions and made progress in key areas such as material sourcing, inclusion and diversity, and circular design. We’ve partnered with others to test and scale circular materials, processes and business models, and to progress social protection and dialogue within our supply chain.Our approach to sustainability
At the time of writing, however, we are deeply concerned about the course of events in Ukraine and our thoughts go out to all those affected. We are monitoring developments closely and doing all we can to help people as much as possible. H&M Group, the H&M Foundation and the Erling Persson Foundation have donated millions of kronor as well as clothing and other essentials to organisations such as UNCHR, Save the Children, the Red Cross and UNICEF. We join all those around the world who are calling for peace. 
Helena Helmersson
CEO, H&M Group
Read the full CEO letter in our Annual and  
Sustainability Report .
Looking ahead, we see collaboration as 
essential for finding solutions to the  
complex and interconnected challenges we face as an industry. We’ve come a long way, but we know there is much more to do to accelerate our transformation. We will continue to share our progress and learnings, and welcome collaboration and partnerships as we continue this journey
Leyla Ertur
Head of Sustainability, H&M Group
H&M Foundation
The H&M Foundation is an independent non-profit global foundation for public good, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. It is privately funded by the Stefan Persson family, founders and main owners of H&M Group. Founded to accelerate the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, H&M Foundation uses collaboration and innovation to co-create, fund and share solutions for  
the world’s most urgent challenges.
Since 2013, the family has donated SEK  
1.5 billion (USD 200 million) to the Foundation.Learn more at hmfoundation.com
P.5 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Key sustainability policies & standards  
OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS OUR MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS— Human Rights Policy
— Animal Welfare Policy
— Responsible Raw Material Sourcing Policy
— H&M Group Chemical Restrictions— Code of Ethics for Business Partners
— Sustainability Commitment
— Child Labour Policy
— Migrant Worker Guidelines
— Home Working Policy— Code of Ethics for Colleagues
— Whistleblowing Policy
— Global Grievance Policy
— Global Non-Discrimination and Non-Harassment Policy
— Global Policy on Diversity, Inclusiveness and Equality
— Global Health and Safety Policy
— Global Policy on HIV & AIDS
— Global Compensation and Benefits Policy
— Global Labour Relations Principles
— Privacy Policy
— Responsible Marketing Guidelines
— Tax PolicyOUR OWN OPERATIONS
For more on H&M Group’s policies and standards see our Corporate Governance Report .Our approach to sustainability 
P.6 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Competing to transform 
fashion
The sixth round of H&M Foundation’s 
Global Change Awards  launched in August 
2021. This is the world’s largest innovation challenge to transform the fashion industry. The 2022 Award seeks early-stage innovations contributing to a planet positive industry by addressing the earth’s global commons: land, water, oceans, climate and biodiversity. Applications from more than 100 countries were submitted. Five winners will be announced in April, 2022.  
In 2021, the H&M Foundation’s Billion   
Dollar Collection  campaign presented  
ten start-ups that could disrupt the fashion 
industry. Each company was showcased as a garment in a virtual fashion collection, with the price tag showing the investment needed to scale up their disruptive innovations.We are committed to lead the change to a  
better fashion future. This mindset influences everything we do. We aim to lead by example, using our size and scale to create positive impact. Being a first mover is challenging — trying something new means a greater risk of failure — but we believe in investing in a business that meets growing customer interest in more sustainable products and lifestyles. Improving  
the sustainability performance of our value  
chain also improves the resilience of our  
business operations.
We amplify our positive impact by forming 
partnerships, participating in dialogue, and sharing progress and learnings. Our focus  
is on three areas: innovation, transparency ,  
and engagement with stakeholders  and  
policy makers .
Innovation
New materials, recycling technologies and business models that promote circularity, improve resource use and enhance customers’ experience are needed to transform our business and the fashion industry. We identify, test and scale  
new solutions:
— Our Circular Innovation Lab supports early-
stage innovations to evaluate new and more sustainable materials and technologies,  
bridging the gap from proof-of-concept projects to pre-commercial projects all the way to commercial production.
— Through our investment arm, H&M CO:LAB,  
we invest in companies developing technologies  
and software that enable a circular and 
sustainable future. 
— Our B2B service Treadler  gives other fashion 
companies access to H&M Group’s supply chain. 
This removes barriers to sustainable sourcing by sharing the benefits of our investments in circular product development, more sustainable production and logistics. In 2021, Treadler introduced a dashboard that lets clients monitor progress towards their sustainability goals.  
— We test and use innovative business models 
to offer customers easier access to more sustainable lifestyles. For example, in Sweden  
our subscription-based service Singular Society  
gives members access to responsibly made,high-quality fashion at the price it costs to make.  
— 68% of respondents to our annual stakeholder  
survey  rate H&M Group as good or very good  
at innovation. Find more about how innovation speeds 
transformation, online  and throughout this report.
How we Lead the Change
P.7 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Recognition for 
transparency
—  H&M Group ranked second in Fashion 
Revolution’s 2021 Fashion Transparency  
Index , scoring 68% (73% in 2020). We 
recognise that transparency shouldn’t be seen as an end goal. Instead, it is a vital enabler to reach many of our long-term sustainability objectives.
—  Our 2019 Sustainability Performance 
Report was named first runner-up in the honesty and transparency category at  
the 2021 Corporate Responsibility  
Reporting Awards .
—  71% of stakeholders rate H&M Group as good or very good for transparency. Read more in Stakeholder Engagement .Transparency prompts change by:
—  Empowering informed choices . Giving 
customers information on product and  
business sustainability so they can make  
informed decisions aligned with their values. 
Encouraging customers to adopt more sustainable behaviours by enabling and  
inspiring more sustainable actions.
—  Accelerating sustainable change. Increasing 
transparency and traceability across our value chain to give us greater oversight and control of our impacts. Sharing accurate data on our performance to identify areas for improvement and create accountability and comparability within our industry.
As we continuously improve our data systems 
to help reach our ambition of a fully traceable and transparent supply chain, we’re mindful of the ethical considerations around collecting and using data. We see the need for shared guidance on responsible data handling from policy makers and the development of strong public governance procedures. Our Privacy Policy  shares how 
we process and protect personal data, and we apply our Responsible AI Checklist every time we initiate an artificial intelligence (AI) project to ensure relevant ethical questions are answered.Communicating openly and honestly about our business is vital for building meaningful relationships with colleagues, customers, investors and others. Transparency  alone does  
not improve sustainability performance, but creates accountability and comparability, pushing us to improve and encouraging others in our industry to do the same.Progress: empowering  
informed choices
—  In 2021, H&M was among the first fashion brands to launch the Sustainable Apparel  
Coalition ’s (SAC) Higg Index Sustainability Profile 
— a new on-product transparency tool sharing environmental performance scores for materials. Customers can view profiles on around 850 H&M products online in Europe and the United States. We continued our partnership with the SAC, a global multi-stakeholder non-profit alliance developing tools to standardise sustainability measurements — sitting on strategic councils  
and within working groups.
—  H&M and H&M HOME online continue to offer 
customers on-product transparency information about product materials, factory locations, garment care and recycling options. 
—  We expanded MyStore, our store-led 
community programme that engages and educates customers and colleagues on local sustainability issues. We extended coverage to central Europe and India, with 140 stores participating.
—  H&M completed the roll-out of its initiative  
to reward members with Conscious Points ,  
for making more sustainable choices. The 
initiative empowers members to track their conscious choices, such as using our garment collecting initiative, bringing their own bag  
when shopping in store or choosing climate-  
smart delivery when shopping online. In 2021, H&M members completed over 45 million 
Transparency 
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.8 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002conscious choices. H&M will continue developing 
this concept during 2022.
—  H&M and COS  tested sharing on-product 
lifecycle assessment (LCA) data with customers. 
Read what we found in Learnings.  
Progress: accelerating  
sustainable change
—  ARKET, COS, H&M, Monki, & Other Stories and Weekday completed the Higg Brand & Retail Module and took part in data verification for the programme. The scores will be available to SAC members, with the eventual goal to share publicly to enable comparison across brands.  
—  We continued assessing suppliers’ social  
and environmental performance using the  
Higg Facility Environmental Module (FEM)  
and Higg Facility Social and Labor Module (FSLM). 
See Supply Chain Management  for more detail.
—  We joined the European Commission’s Green  
Consumption Pledge Initiative , committing to 
disclose details of our work and performance on our circular and climate positive strategy.
—  We’re exploring opportunities to improve 
traceability of materials, enrolling in multiple projects aiming to find scalable solutions to  
this challenge. For example, we plan to scale our TextileGenesis traceability programme to more materials during 2022. Additionally, together with Textile Exchange  and TextileGenesis , we’re 
piloting eTrackit , a digital certified chain of 
custody model to improve traceability of materials through the supply chain. 
—  Our H&M Group supplier list  disclosed 
information about 1,519 tier 1 supplier factories, 
covering 99% of relevant production volume, and 394 tier 2 supplier factories, covering 71% of relevant production volume. COS , Monki  and 
Weekday  added supplier lists and ARKET  added  
a sustainability fact sheet to their websites.
—  We continued contributing to the EU Product 
Environmental Footprint Technical Secretariat, which is developing an EU-wide methodology to measure apparel and footwear product  
environmental footprints  that could help 
substantiate sustainability claims.
Learnings
—  Our work to communicate environmental impacts with customers taught us that they tend to find LCA information overwhelming. Sharing data this way is not scalable or comparable because it is too costly and time consuming.  
What we need is a unified industry approach  
to measuring and communicating product  
impact data.Transparency
—  Our on-product transparency pilots show sharing product impact data with customers does not appear to impact customer behaviour in the short term, but builds trust and loyalty. 
Future focus
—  We’ll continue improving on-product transparency to help customers better understand the impacts of our products. We’ll keep supporting the development of the Higg Index Sustainability Profiles to improve sharing of comparable customer-facing sustainability scores together with the SAC. We plan to use the profiles for more products and brands, and are keen to see the scope of profiles extended, including to social impact categories. In 2022, we’ll pilot the tool’s expansion to tier 1 supplier factory scores. 
—  Securing a seamless flow of data between 
information systems remains a key challenge. We’re developing a roadmap for our supply chain sustainability performance data to improve integration and accessibility. 
P.9 T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Our stakeholders include:
—  Customers . Our customers are the centre  
of our business. We continuously listen to learn 
their needs, understand their expectations and make more sustainable choices as easy and attractive as possible to them.
—  Colleagues . Everyone at H&M Group has a 
role in achieving our sustainability ambitions. 
We welcome the diversity of perspectives, knowledge and experience contributed by  
our many colleagues around the world.
—  Business partners  — including suppliers 
of commercial and non-commercial goods 
and services, franchise partners and online platform channels. We work together to share expectations, address social and environmental challenges in our supply chain, and raise industry standards. We engage with our suppliers’ employees either directly through anonymous worker surveys or via representative bodies such as trade unions.
—  Experts  — including peers, nongovernmental 
organisations, academics and researchers, 
innovators and multi-stakeholder initiatives. Together, we can tackle systemic challenges and have a positive impact beyond our business.We welcome open dialogue and collaboration with others within and outside our industry. Engaging with diverse perspectives challenges us to do better, accelerates innovation and supports our transparency efforts. Partnerships help us progress towards our sustainability ambitions faster than we could alone and have a positive impact beyond our own value chain.
Engaging with our stakeholders—  Policy makers  — including governments 
and international institutions. We work to raise and level the legislative playing field, support the development of the fashion industry and encourage governments and businesses to  
take shared responsibility for meeting  
complex challenges. Read more in Engaging   
with Policy Makers .
—  Investors . As a publicly listed company, 
we are accountable to our investors. We maintain two-way dialogue with them to share our progress, seek feedback and inform our sustainability strategy and reporting.
—  Communities . We want to contribute to 
positive impacts, growth and development in the 
communities where our operations and suppliers are located, and the demographic communities that represent our customers and colleagues.
We regularly engage with our stakeholders using 
a range of channels. These include webinars and calls, partnership meetings, surveys and consultations, training programmes, our stakeholder newsletter, and regular updates during the Covid-19 crisis. Each year, we invite views on our sustainability performance and reporting via our anonymous stakeholder survey.
Read more about our stakeholder engagement  
activities  and external collaborations  in 2021.
Stakeholder feedback 
In 2021, 96 stakeholders (a 15% response 
rate) participated in our stakeholder perception survey (96 in 2020; 350 in 2019). This year:
—  73% of respondents agree or strongly 
agree that H&M Group is taking the lead among fashion retailers for social and environmental sustainability (76% in 2020; 52% in 2019).
—  89% say they have good or very good 
experience interacting with us (92% in 2020; 71% in 2019).
—  77% say H&M Group is a company they 
can trust (75% in 2020; 55% in 2019).
Additional results relating to specific topics 
are shared in the relevant sections of this report.
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.10  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002Our public affairs work is an important enabler 
to address systemic issues and achieve policy developments needed to support meaningful growth in our industry. 
We engage with governments on key 
environmental, social and business topics.  
The central team reports directly to our chief financial officer and sets the direction for teams  
in our retail and production markets. H&M Group is listed in the EU Transparency Register .
Priority policy areas
We focus on the issues most relevant to our sustainability work and where we see greatest potential to contribute to positive change. 
An important focus area is upcoming European 
Union (EU) and EU country-level legislation on transparency, circularity and other environmental and social issues. We also prioritise engaging  
with national and international policy and legislation that:
—  Supports transition to a circular and climate 
positive fashion industry.
—  Impacts social development in our production 
markets, with a focus on wages and social protection mechanisms.—  Enables stable, predictable development of the industry in our production markets to support equitable economic growth, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals.
—  Promotes a free and sustainable trade agenda.—  Addresses the emerging artificial intelligence 
and digitalisation agenda.
We engage in international dialogue relevant to 
our sustainability ambitions, including through COP26, the International Labour Organization, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Decent Work in Global Supply Chains Action Platform, the UNGC CFO taskforce and the World Economic Forum.
We are members of multi-stakeholder 
platforms, including ACT  (Action, Collaboration, 
Transformation), AFIRM , Business for Nature , 
Global Fashion Agenda , the Policy Hub —  
Circularity for Apparel and Footwear , the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition , Textile Exchange , 
the UNFCCC Fashion Industry Charter for   
Climate Action  and ZDHC  (Zero Discharge of 
Hazardous Chemicals).
Key 2021 activities
—  We contributed in depth to EU consultations on the EU Textile Strategy, sustainable product initiative (including eco-design, circular business models and digital product passports), chemicals, due diligence (Sustainable Corporate Governance), packaging, end-of-waste criteria  
for the textile industry, and the EU taxonomy   
for sustainable economic activities. Our CEO  
and our Head of Sustainability took part in high-level meetings with the EU Commission and  
EU Parliament on topics such as transparency  
and sustainable textiles. 
—  In several production markets, we advocated 
for transparent, inclusive minimum wage revisions and extended social protection mechanisms, either through policy conversations (for example, in Bangladesh and Indonesia) or working with our suppliers to ensure full enforcement of the law  
(for example, in Turkey).
—  We engaged with national authorities to 
support reforms towards a cleaner energy mix, including in Bangladesh (on the revision of the Renewable Energy Policy), Cambodia, and Indonesia (together with CEIA – Clean Energy Investment Accelerator). In Turkey and Bangladesh we started a collaboration with  
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to understand the legal framework and advocate for the shift towards a climate positive industry.Engaging with policy makers
P.11  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Find highlights from across our 2021 sustainability 
work in this section, along with reporting on all our key performance indicators (KPIs). 
Highlights 2021
 ................................ 13
E
xternal assessments  ......................... 14
K
PIs: Circular & Climate Positive  ............... 15
K
PIs: Fair & Equal 
 .............................. 16Performance 
highlights
P.12  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTHighlights 2021
22%
absolute reduction in scope 1 & 2 CO 2e 
emissions and 9% absolute reduction in  
scope 3 CO 2e emissions, compared with  
2019 baseline — contributing to our target  
to reduce absolute scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
by 56% by 2030.
Set the ambition to 
design all our products  
for circularity by 2025, 
in accordance with our new circular  
design tool — Circulator.Contributed
SEK 180.4 million
to community investment initiatives, reaching 368,000 beneficiaries.T ripled  
the share of recycled materials used  
in our garments from 5.8%  to 17 .9%.62%
of worker representatives and 28%  of  
supervisors in our in our supply chain are female.
27 .8%
reduction in plastic packaging.98%
of suppliers regard H&M Group  
as a fair business partner.
23,253 
employees received our Layers inclusion and diversity training.
P.13  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORTExternal assessments  
Benchmarks
—  Baptist World Ethical Fashion Guide . H&M 
Group achieved an A grade in the 2021 Ethical  
Fashion Guide , which recognises companies that 
put people and planet before profit, putting us in 
the top 20% of brands surveyed.
—  Dow Jones Sustainability Index . H&M 
Group was included in the Dow Jones World 
Sustainability Index for the tenth year running. We ranked fifth in 2021, with a score of 68/100 (70/100 in 2020). We were also listed in the  
Dow Jones European Index. 
—  Ecogain Biodiversity Index . We were one of 
five Green Traffic Light recipients in the Ecogain 
Biodiversity Index 2021 , out of 240 companies, 
which recognises companies with biodiversity goals in line with science. 
—  Fashion Transparency Index . H&M Group 
ranked second in Fashion Revolution’s 2021  
Fashion Transparency Index , which assesses  
250 fashion brands, with a score of 68%  
(73% in 2020). We are pleased that our efforts  
to increase transparency are recognised, but  
we know that transparency is no replacement  
for performance. We will continue to improve  
our practices. —  FTSE4Good . H&M Group was a  
constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, 
which helps investors identify responsible companies with strong environmental, social  
and governance practices.
—  Global Compact LEAD . H&M Group was 
announced as a Global Compact LEAD  company, 
demonstrating our ongoing commitment to the 
United Nations Global Compact and its principles for responsible business. 
—  InfluenceMap’s A-List of Climate Policy 
Engagement . We were identified as one of  
15 corporate leaders advocating for ambitious climate policy in the 2021 A-List of Climate   
Policy Engagement .
—  Oxfam Australia Naughty or Nice List . H&M 
Group was again included in Oxfam Australia’s  
tracker  of companies committed to ring-fencing 
labour costs and to paying living wages for garment workers.
—  Platform Living Wage Financials . Our work 
on wages in our supply chain was rated as 
“advanced” in the Platform Living Wage Financials 2021 Annual Report . We were the only member  
of the garment and footwear sector included in this category. —  Remake Fashion Accountability Report .  
We ranked 11 in Remake’s 2021 Fashion  
Accountability Report  that rates 60 fashion 
companies according to traceability, wages and wellbeing, commercial practices, materials, environmental justice and governance.
—  Stand Earth Fashion Scorecard . H&M Group 
ranked in the top ten companies assessed by 
Stand Earth’s Fashion Scorecard 2021 , an analysis 
of 47 fashion brands, with a C- score overall and an A+ for our public affairs work. While we’re happy with our leadership position, we know  
that we have more work to do together with  
our industry.
—  Textile Exchange Corporate Fiber &  
Materials Benchmark . H&M Group was 
recognised as one of 36 leading companies out 
of the 191 analysed in the 2020 Material Change  
Leaderboard . We were one of nine companies 
leading on material circularity and one of  
13 companies leading on progress against  
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Awards
—  Corporate Responsibility Reporting Awards . 
Our 2019 Sustainability Performance Report won the Best Report  award this year. The report 
also came second place in the Openness and Honesty, Best Carbon Disclosure, and Creativity in Communications categories, and third place  
in Relevance and Materiality.
P.14  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORTKPIs: Circular & Climate Positive 
Details of specific goals and additional data, including the reasons for changes in performance this year, are included within relevant sections of the Circular & Climate Positive chapter .
Circular & Climate Positive KPIs
2018 2019 2020 2021 GOAL
Climate : % absolute reduction (scopes 1 and 2) in CO 2e emissions compared with 2019 baseline1,2,3 N/A N/A +17% –22%
-56% by 2030
Climate : % absolute reduction (scope 3) in CO 2e emissions compared with 2019 baseline1,3N/A N/A –14% –9%
Climate : % change in CO 2e emissions from own operations (scope 1 + 2) compared with previous year3 –11% +8% +18% –34% −
Climate : % change in scope 3 CO 2e emissions compared with previous year3 − –3% –14% +6% −
Climate : % change in electricity intensity in our stores (kwh/m2 per opening hour) compared with 2016 baseline3 –8.2% –10.1% −17.0 % –16.8% −25% by 20304
Climate : % renewable electricity in own operations3 96% 96% 90% 95% 100% by 2030
Water : % reduction in production water use (water intensive tier 1 and 2 suppliers) from 2017 baseline N/A –5.9% –3.8% –10.3% −25% by 2022
Commercial goods : % of recycled or other more sustainably sourced materials total3 56.6% 57.1% 64.5% 80.0% 100% by 2030
Commercial goods : % of other more sustainably sourced materials3 55.2% 54.9% 58.7% 62.1% –
Commercial goods : % of recycled materials3 1.4% 2.2% 5.8% 17.9 % 30% by 2025
Packaging : % of recycled or other more sustainably sourced materials1 − − 89% 68% 100% by 2030
Chemicals : % of supplier factories compliant with ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substances List N/A 80% 88% 95% 100%5
Garment collecting initiatives : Tonnes of garments collected through garment collecting initiative6 20,649 29,005 18,800 15,944 Annual increase
1)   N ew KPI added in 2021.
2) 
  S
cope 1 and 2 are direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from H&M 
Group’s own operations, e.g. stores, distribution centres and offices.3)  See p age 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points.  
The limited assurance process included: all scope 1 and 2 emissions; scope 3 emissions from transportation and garment production; fuel consumption in our own operations; electricity intensity in our stores; renewable electricity;  
all cotton data (apart from in-conversion cotton); and data for our top three  recycled materials.4) 
   T his goal read ‘by 2025’ in our 2020 and 2019 sustainability reports. It should 
have read ‘by 2030’, as per our annual reports. 
5) 
  1
00% ZDHC MRSL compliance is proving challenging due to the variety and 
complexity of our supply chain. Due to this, we did not achieve our goal of 100% compliance by 2020 and continue to work towards full MRSL compliance.6)
   O ur garment collecting initiative was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic for  
part of the year in 2020 and for the full year in 2021.
P.15  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORTKPIs: Fair & Equal
Details of specific goals and additional data, including the reasons for changes in performance this year, are included within relevant sections of the Fair & Equal chapter .
Fair & Equal KPIs
2018 2019 2020 2021 GOAL
Supply chain : % tier 1 supplier factories with trade union representation1See footnote 2 See footnote 2 32% 37% −
Supply chain : % tier 1 supplier factories with collective bargaining agreements1See footnote 2 See footnote 2 18% 27% −
Supply chain : % tier 1 supplier factories with digital payment solutions (bank account and/or mobile money) See footnote 2 See footnote 2 82% 91% −
Supply chain : % of workers in our tier 1 production supply chain that are female See footnote 2 See footnote 2 63% 63% −
Supply chain : % of supervisors in our tier 1 production supply chain that are female See footnote 2 See footnote 2 24% 28% Annual increase
Supply chain : % of worker representatives in our tier 1 production supply chain that are female See footnote 2 See footnote 2 59% 62% Annual increase
Supply chain : % of suppliers regarding H&M Group as a fair business partner393% 96% 96% 98% −
Own organisation : Overall People Engagement Pulses (PEP) employee engagement score (out of 100) 75 76 75 76 −
Own organisation : % of H&M Group employees agreeing with the statement “Diverse perspectives are valued at H&M Group” 4See footnote 5 See footnote 5 See footnote 5 74% Annual increase
Own organisation : % of H&M Group employees agreeing with the statement “I am treated with respect and dignity” 5 81% 82% 80% 83% Annual increase
Own organisation : % of female employees674% 76% 74% 74% –
Own organisation : % of female employees in management positions672% 69% 71% 71% –
Own organisation : % of female employees on the board of directors660% 67% 67% 55% –
Own organisation : % of employees in brands that have received our Layers inclusion and diversity training See footnote 6 See footnote 6 See footnote 6 15% −
Own organisation : % of employees in functions that have received our Layers inclusion and diversity training See footnote 6 See footnote 6 See footnote 6 66% −
Own organisation : % of employees in markets that have received our Layers inclusion and diversity training See footnote 6 See footnote 6 See footnote 6 21% −
Community investment initiatives : total number of beneficiaries See footnote 6 See footnote 6 See footnote 6 368,000 −
Community investment initiatives : total contributions See footnote 6 See footnote 6 See footnote 6 SEK 180.4 million7−
1)   A pplicable legal standards include: the ILO core conventions; C87 Freedom of 
Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention, 1948; C98  
Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949. Where these 
standards have not yet been ratified, following Social & Labor Convergence Program verification guidelines, we referred to the national applicable  
legislation in force.2) 
   N ew KPI introduced in 2020 due to the strategic decision to track progress in 
H&M Group’s global production supply chain.
3) 
  T
his KPI will change from next year as we integrate our supplier survey into  
the ACT purchasing practices assessment that runs every year. We believe that this change will reduce workload for our suppliers, providing a trusted platform for feedback.4) 
   N ew since 2021, replacing our previous KPI % of H&M Group employees 
agreeing with the statement “I feel comfortable being myself at work”, as we updated our employee engagement survey platform.
5) 
 
 N
ew since 2018, replacing our previous KPI % of employees agreeing with the 
statement “people here are treated fairly regardless of age, ethnicity, sex, sexual orientation, disabilities”, as we made a shift to a new engagement  
survey platform. 6) 
  N ew KPIs introduced in 2021 as we progress our inclusion and diversity 
ambitions, and begin tracking change in our community investment and engagement programmes.
7)
  I
ncludes in-kind giving SEK 134.5 million, cash contributions SEK 38.8 million, 
management overheads SEK 6.3 million, employee volunteering  
SEK 0.8 million.
P.16  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORTCircular 
& Climate Positive
Our Circular & Climate Positive approach  ...... 18
C
limate Positive 
 ............................... 19
B
iodiversity  .................................. 25
Wa
ter  ........................................ 27
O
ur circular ecosystem 
 ....................... 29
C
ircular products: 
— Design  .................................... 30
— M
aterial choice  ............................. 31
— M
icrofibres . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Circular supply chain:
— Optimising resource use 
 ................... 37
— M
aterials processing 
 ....................... 39
— C
hemicals  ................................. 4
0
Circular customer journey: — Maximising product life & scaling circular 
business models 
 .............................. 41
C
ircular products, supply chain &  
customer journey:— Stores, distribution centres & offices
 ....... 44
— P
ackaging  ................................. 45
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.17  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002Our Circular & Climate Positive 
approach
Our business, our people and the communities 
where they live and work are reliant upon natural resources. In turn, the health of the planet depends upon how we use, protect and restore these resources. The actions we take now to preserve our shared environment lay the foundation for the business we want to become and must become for future generations — offering our customers more sustainable choices as part of a circular fashion ecosystem.
By reducing our impact on climate and nature,  
we also contribute to a more fair and equal  
society . Access to a safe, healthy and clean 
environment is a human right, while a thriving 
environment supports equity, economic development and wellbeing. Climate change is already exacerbating inequalities and conflicts, degrading ecosystems and impacting the availability of resources.
These interconnected issues of climate and 
nature — which include water, biodiversity and land use changes — are at the heart of our approach to reducing our environmental impact. We are determined to work within planetary boundaries and progress towards a sustainable fashion future.Our ambition is to achieve net-zero CO 2e 
emissions by 2040,1 taking a climate positive 
approach and having a net positive impact on biodiversity.
2 Becoming circular throughout our 
business  is key to achieving these aims. How we 
make and use our products directly affects our carbon and water footprints and our impact  
on nature. 
Tackling this complex set of issues requires us to 
collaborate with peers, experts and policy makers , 
for example, through our work with Business for  
Nature , the Ellen MacArthur Foundation , Global  
Fashion Agenda , Policy Hub , the Stockholm  
Resilience Centre  and our partnership with WWF . 
In 2021, we set new CO
2e emissions reduction 
goals to support our net-zero and climate positive ambitions. Compared to our 2019 baseline, we have reduced our absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 22% and our scope 3 emissions by 9%. We reduced production water use by 6.6% compared to last year. We engaged with the Science Based Targets Network to begin developing targets for nature and invested in projects focused on reducing the biodiversity impact of our material sourcing. We also continued our work with WWF to set context-specific (contextual) water targets and to develop our new 2030 Water Strategy.
See our Circular & Climate Positive KPIs  from 
2021. H&M Foundation 
In 2021, the H&M Foundation launched a 
new planet strategy — Planet Positive . The 
strategy addresses challenges within the entire earth system — including climate, water, ocean, biodiversity and land — and across every step of the fashion industry’s value chain. 
For our industry to become truly 
regenerative it is crucial to look beyond circularity. The H&M Foundation invests in new research and supports innovations with a planet positive focus. One example is the five-year Planet First  partnership 
with the Hong Kong Research Institute of  
Textiles and Apparel  (HKRITA), which aims 
to consider all aspects of earth’s natural support systems.
1) Ne t-zero as defined by the SBTi’s Net-Zero Standard.
2)
  Our ambition t
o have a net positive impact on biodiversity is based  
on the definition of nature-positive in the naturepositive.org paper:  
A Nature Positive World: The Global Goal for Nature.
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.18  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002Climate Positive
The urgency of the climate crisis is now 
undeniable. The sixth report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) states that human-induced climate change already affects every inhabited region across the globe. Without steep greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, the IPCC warns that warming of 1.5
oC 
or even 2oC will be exceeded this century — with 
potentially catastrophic consequences for people and the planet.
We must accelerate our own progress to be part 
of the solution. Our work on climate is closely linked to our work on water , biodiversity , resource  
use and circularity .
Our climate strategy
We take a climate positive approach throughout our value chain and beyond. To do this we will:
—  Halve our emissions every decade.—  Achieve net-zero no later than 2040, using the 
Science Based Targets initiative’s (SBTi) definition. We are revising our existing science-based targets to align with the SBTi’s recently launched Net-Zero Standard. We have submitted a near-term SBT with a target year of 2030, and a long-term SBT to achieve net-zero by 2040, and we are currently awaiting approval of these by SBTi.targets and interim milestones as part of our Net-Zero Roadmap.
We focus on four priority activity areas to support 
these targets:
—  Energy efficiency . Use as little energy as 
possible across the whole value chain — including 
in our own operations, logistics activities and throughout our supply chain.
—  Renewable energy . Work to source 100% 
renewable electricity in our own operations, and 
engage with partners and suppliers to increase their use of renewable electricity, heat and steam. We are an RE100  member company.
—  Circularity . Our circular ambition  and goals are 
integral to achieving our climate goals. —  Have a positive effect beyond our value chain, by engaging in public affairs and collaboration, and making financial commitments to reduce climate impacts beyond our value chain emissions.
To help us achieve net-zero, we introduced a 
new goal to reduce our absolute scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 56% by 2030, from a 2019 baseline .
1  This overarching goal supersedes 
previous scope 3 goals, including our product goal. We also have a number of supporting targets focused on different aspects of our value chain:
2
—  From January 1, 2022, we will not onboard any new suppliers or supplier factories into our supply chain if they have on-site coal boilers in their factories — as part of a longer-term aim to phase out coal from our supply chain.
—  By 2030, achieve a 25% reduction in electricity 
intensity in our stores, from a 2016 baseline.
—  By 2030, source 100% renewable electricity in 
our own operations.
—  By 2030, the electricity sourced in our supply 
chain will be 100% renewable.
3  
—  By 2025, source 30% recycled materials.
There are additional goals attached to our 
sustainability-linked bond , as well as year-on-year —  Carbon removals . Find nature-based and 
engineered solutions for removing GHGs from the atmosphere. Future investments in carbon removals will primarily serve to neutralise our residual emissions in order to achieve net-zero value chain emissions.  
1)  W e chose 2019 as our baseline year, since the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic on our carbon emissions makes 2020 an inappropriate year 
against which to measure longer-term performance data. Emissions  
from the customer use phase are not included in the scope 3 part of this go
al, to fully align with the target boundary requirements of the SBTi 
Net-Zero Standard.
2)
  W
e are revising our transport emissions target to align with our new 
absolute emissions goal.
3)
  Wher
ever renewable electricity is available for purchase (in rare cases, 
some markets do not have renewable electricity for sale).
P.19  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021GOALS AND  
PERFORMANCE
2. REDUCE
Goals and performance are aligned with  
1.5oC climate science.Science Based  
Targets initiative  
Net-Zero Standard56% emissions  
reduction by 20302Value chainSet separate  
reduction goal for 
emissions from  
customer use phase
1. ACCOUNT & DISCLOSE
Secure and collect data.  
Measure, improve, assess and disclose.CDP
TCFDValue chain FOUNDATION
4. ADVOCATE
Advocate, engage and collaborate.  
Enable and inspire.UNFCCC
We Mean Business
WWFValue chain  
and beyond1Our climate positive approachClimate Positive
A R E AS TO 
DETERMINE IN 2022 GOALSFRAMEWORKS AND  
PARTNERSHIPS IMPACT AREA ACTIONS
3. REMOVE CO 2 & SECURE CARBON SINKS
Remove and permanently store atmospheric CO 2.  
Secure carbon sinks to avoid emissions and biodiversity  
loss that arise from their degredation.Science Based  
Targets initiative  
Net-Zero StandardAchieve net-zero 
emissions2Value chain  
and beyond1Set ambition for  
carbon sinks  
(e.g. tropical rainforest)ADDITIONAL  
ACTION S TO 
MAXIMISE OUR  
POSITIVE CLIMATE  
IMPACT
1)  F or example, by engaging in public affairs and collaboration, and making financial 
commitments to reduce climate impacts beyond our value chain emissions. The 
definition of "beyond value chain mitigation" is a moving agenda, and we anticipate further definition to be included in the planned SBTi guidance later in 2022. 2)
   T arget boundary includes 100% of scope 1 and 2 emissions, and 100% of  
minimum boundary scope 3 emissions (which excludes indirect emissions  
from use of sold products).
P. 20  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Climate Positive
To ensure progress at the speed required, we 
have launched initiatives to address a number of key challenges:
—  Changing internal behaviour . We’ve set  
up internal carbon pricing  to support our 
organisation to minimise carbon emissions 
when making decisions about which materials, production processes and modes of transport  
to use. Choices with higher emissions will impact a product’s margin negatively. We set an initial carbon price in 2021, which we will increase over time to shift behaviour towards more sustainable buying decisions.
—  Prioritising action . Our Climate Positive 
Roadmap tool forecasts future emissions 
scenarios for our full value chain and calculates the levers for greatest impact reduction,  
allowing us to prioritise where to invest.
—  Establishing a dedicated climate impact 
budget . We have set up a green investment team 
with a single focus: financially support projects  
to reduce H&M Group´s emissions throughout  
the value chain. The team will measure return  
on investment by emissions reductions, not financial gain.
—  Sourcing external financing . Our EUR 
500 million sustainability-linked bond  provides 
external finance for carbon reduction activities.  
 Find out more about our sustainability-  
linked bond.Collaboration is essential to tackling the 
global climate crisis. Climate is a main focus of our longstanding partnership with WWF . 
We engage with policy makers to develop legislation in support of a low carbon future — for example as part of the steering committee of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Fashion Industry  
Charter for Climate Action .
We also partner with peers to reduce emissions across shared transport supply chains. As well as being a signatory to the Arctic Shipping Corporate Pledge , we 
are members of BSR’s Clean Cargo  and 
Sustainable Air Freight Alliance , Green Freight  
Asia , Network for Transport Measures and 
The Pathways Coalition . We require sea 
transporters to register their environmental performance in the Clean Shipping Index  or 
Clean Cargo Working Group for evaluation.
Read more about our approach to tackling 
climate change .
Progress: overall
—  Our scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased  
by 22%, compared to our 2019 baseline  
 (–34% compared to last year) and our scope 3 emissions decreased by 9%, compared to our 2019 baseline (+6% compared to last year). The scope 1 and 2 decrease is driven by purchase of renewable electricity certificates. Decreases in our scope 3 emissions over time are led by a continued shift to more sustainable and recycled materials and reduction in air transport, as well as being influenced by Covid-related issues such as fluctuations in order volumes. The increase in scope 3 emissions compared to last year was largely due to a rebound in production and sales and related increases in product transportation, following the significant impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.
—  We launched  our internal carbon pricing 
programme, sustainability-linked bond and Climate 
Positive Roadmap tool, and we set up our new green investment team.
—  To support development of a new Logistics 
Roadmap, we reviewed current climate impacts across our logistics activities. We will use the findings to develop a clear set of actions.
—  We collaborated with policy makers to catalyse 
systemic change, including joining the UNFCCC  
Race to Zero and engaging in COP26.
—  In our 2021 stakeholder survey , 50% of 
respondents rate our climate positive work as good 
or very good. 
Managing climate change 
risks
Since 2019, we’ve used the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidance to analyse and understand our key climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Read our TCFD disclosure in our Annual  
and Sustainability Report .
P. 21  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Climate Positive
Scope 3 CO 2e emissions5,6,7
5)   S ee page 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points.  
The limited assurance process included scope 3 emissions from 
transportation and garment production.
6)
  F
igures based on 2020 data. Categories are based on GHG Protocol. 
Number of products/spend is multiplied by approximate LCA-based conversion factors. Calculations in the footprint analysis are based on a combination of high-quality H&M Group data and the best available public data sources on CO
2e emissions, using conservative assumptions. We have updated our emissions data to enable comparability between years, following improvements in data analysis — read more above. Other emissions include business travel, employee commuting, franchises,  
fuel- and energy-related activities, and waste generated in operations. 
7)
 F
igures do not add up to 100% due to rounding.
8)
 G
HG Protocol category 1: purchased products.
9)
  I
ncludes multiple small categories such as employee commuting, 
investments and business travel.CO 2e emissions1,2,3,4
2018 2019 2020 2021% CHANGE  
FROM 2019 GOAL
Total Scope 1 CO 2e 
emissions (tonnes)13,363 14,990 13,587 12,684 –15%–56% by 2030 
(2019 baseline)
Total Scope 2 CO 2e 
emissions, including 
renewables (tonnes)46,429 49,455 61,725 37,394 –24%–56% by 2030 
(2019 baseline)
Total Scope 1 & 2 CO 2e 
emissions, including 
renewables (tonnes)59,793 64,444 75,322 50,078 –22%–56% by 2030 
(2019 baseline)
Total Scope 3  
CO 2e emissions 
(kilotonnes)1See  
footnote 1 8,497 7,3 3 4 7,742 –9%–56% by 2030 
(2019 baseline)
1)  I n 2021, we continued work to improve the accuracy of our emissions data.  
This has led to some changes to our reported emissions for previous years. For 
example, scope 1 and 2 emissions data for 2020 and earlier did not historically include district heating (scope 2) and natural gas (scope 1) for stores in Germany. We have therefore restated scope 1 and 2 figures this year to include these additional emissions. We will continue to be transparent about how we calculate our emissions, learning and adapting our approach as methods improve. Read more about our emissions calculations .
2 )
  
See page 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points. The limited 
assurance process included all scope 1 and 2 emissions.
3)
  W
e use a shifted reporting year for energy and GHG emissions, covering the 
period September-August. Our GHG emissions accounting and reporting are aligned with the GHG Protocol. Scope 2 emissions under the market-based approach are equal to 50,078 tonnes CO
2e. Under the location-based approach  
(using grid average emission factors), scope 2 emissions were 507,170 tonnes.  
For further details and data, please see our CDP climate change investor response 2021. CO
2e emissions include carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4), nitrous 
oxide (N 2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphur 
hexafluoride (SF 6).
4)
  S
cope 1 emissions are all direct emissions from our own operations; scope 2 
represents indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam used in our own operations. Scope 3 includes other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activities not covered in scope 2, outsourced activities and waste disposal. Includes emissions related to raw materials, fabric production, garment manufacturing, non-garment/non-commercial goods and customer electricity usage.  Scope 1 and 2 limitations and comments: only stores open for the full quarter are included; company cars and refrigerant leakage are not included; electricity consumption includes both actuals and estimations, where estimations are made if store actuals are not received within the reporting deadline; estimates are based on previous consumption, opening hours and store area; includes market-based emissions from electricity. Scope 3 limitations and comments: franchise emissions are calculated based on electricity intensity from comparable markets; capital goods, upstream leased assets, downstream leased assets and processing of sold products are not included; upstream transportation is included in emission factors for materials. Scope 1 and 2 emissions factors: electricity — based on IEA data from CO
2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion  
© OECD/IEA 2020, as modified by UL E&S; fuels — Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS), 2021. Scope 3 emissions factors: raw material and fabric production — Higg MSI; garment production — electricity based on  
IEA data from CO
2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion © OECD/IEA 2020, as 
modified by UL E&S; fuels — 2018 update; other expenditures — Defra, 2014, indirect emissions from the supply chain; transport by rail, air, shipping, truck — emissions factors provided by Conlogic and NTM 2019.
 36%
10%
6%6% 1%1%Fabric 
production8Use of sold products
Garment manufacturing
8
Raw materials8
Other
expenditures8TransportEnd/hyphen.lcof/hyphen.lclifeof soldproducts
Other
9
Non/hyphen.lcgarment
goods88%21%
10%
P. 22  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Climate Positive
Energy use in our own operations1
2018 2019 2020 2021 GOAL
% renewable electricity in own operations 96% 96% 90% 95%100% by  
2030
Energy use within our own operations 
(gigajoules), of which:2 6,186,278 6,229,012 5,408,859 4,963,650 –
–  Building diesel 4,355 7,693 9,954 2,101 –
–  Direct heating 134,801 175,691 214,990 146,647 –
–  Electricity3 5,841,296 5,820,887 4,974,565 4,566,459 –
–  Building natural gas, oil and others 205,826 224,472 209,349 248,443 –
Electricity use reduction per square metre and opening hour (2016 baseline, in comparable stores)
–8.2% –10.1% –17.0 % –16.8%–25% by  
20304 
Transport and business travel emissions1,5
2018 2019 2020 2021
CO 2e emissions in kilotonnes from transport and  
business travel587 500 442 478
 
Emission scopes (based on 
GHG Protocol)
Scope 1 : All direct GHG emissions from our 
own operations.
Scope 2 : Indirect GHG emissions from 
consumption of purchased electricity, heat 
or steam used in our own operations.
Scope 3 : Other indirect emissions, such 
as the extraction and production of 
purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activities not covered in scope 2, outsourced activities, and waste disposal. Includes emissions related to raw materials, fabric production, garment manufacturing, non-garment/non-commercial goods and customer  
electricity usage.
Our emissions data
In 2021, we continued work to improve the accuracy of our emissions data. This has led to some changes to our reported emissions for previous years. Read more about our updated emissions data .Progress: energy efficiency
—  We reached a 16.8% reduction in electricity intensity in our stores per square metre and opening hour, from a 2016 baseline. As this KPI is based on opening hours, Covid-19 and store shutdowns continued to impact our performance. We retrofitted LED lighting in around 720 stores  
and started retrofitting efficient heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems across multiple markets. 
—  Our transport and business travel emissions 
increased by 6% to 478 kilotonnes CO
2e, including 
a reduction in air freight emissions of 32%.6 The 
overall increase was primarily due to a rebound in production and sales and related increases in product transportation, following the significant impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.
—  We are moving from a focus on the number 
of suppliers enrolled in energy efficiency programmes to focus on impact. We launched our supply chain energy efficiency team, starting with four in-house consultants in four countries. They work with our most impactful suppliers — the 20% of suppliers that contribute 80% of emissions — and those with whom we have the closest business relationships. Our aim is to create an industrywide guidance platform on effective energy efficiency activities for suppliers.
6)  Durin g this year’s data evaluation process we have identified historically 
insufficient routines in regards of locking and finalising transport related 
data within set timeframes and deadlines. In 2022, we will reevaluate reported transport emissions and update accordingly. However, we do not expect significant changes to the historic data reported.1)  See p age 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points.
2)
  I
n 2021, we continued work to improve the accuracy of our emissions data.  
This has led to some changes to our reported emissions for previous years 
(for example, see footnote 1 on page 22 ). We will continue to be transparent 
about how we calculate our emissions, learning and adapting our approach as methods improve. Read more about our emissions calculations .
3)
 E
nergy related to electricity-based cooling consumption is included.4)   T here was an error in our 2019 and 2020 Sustainability Reports, where the end 
year for this goal was incorrectly stated as 2025.
5) 
 R
eported scope 3 emissions include goods transport and distribution, and 
business travel. CO 2e emissions include carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4), 
nitrous oxide (N 2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and 
sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6).
P. 23  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Climate Positive
Progress: renewable electricity, 
heat & fuel
—  From January 1, 2022, we will not onboard any 
new suppliers or supplier factories into our supply chain if they have on-site coal boilers in their factories — as part of a longer-term aim to phase out coal from our supply chain.
—  95% of electricity purchased for our operations 
was renewable (90% in 2020). 
—  5 of our distribution centres installed solar 
panels, with a combined peak capacity of  
1,375 MWh.
—  Climate-smart delivery solutions are  
now available in 34 markets.
1 Continued 
integration of online and physical sales is 
changing our logistics activities, and we’ve been implementing last-mile delivery using electric vehicles as part of the solution. We recognise  
that the climate impact of electric vehicles depends on the grid mix in relevant countries, but still see these as an important contribution towards fossil-free transport.
—  We continued to engage in the LEO Coalition 
research project led by Maersk. The coalition started testing different lignin types for LEO  
fuel — a potential near-carbon-neutral biofuel  
for shipping. —  We collaborated with suppliers to  
implement renewable electricity and heat projects. For example:
  – I
n India, 2 of our suppliers achieved 100% 
renewable electricity supply through a combination of onsite generation and  
energy trading.
  – 7
5% of H&M HOME suppliers have installed 
onsite renewable electricity sources.
  – A
pproximately 60% of COS garments 
produced in Turkey — 18% of global COS garment production — were produced using renewable electricity.
2 
  – I
n Indonesia, we collaborated with HSBC, 
WWF and the World Resources Institute on  
a project to address barriers to transitioning  
to biomass boilers. In Cambodia, we launched an app to enable traceability of boiler feedstock and we aim for Cambodia to be  
our first production country to use 100% biomass boilers.
Progress: circularity
—  Read about our progress towards building  
a circular business in Our Circular Ecosystem .
1)  Clima te-smart refers to transport initiatives that have lower CO 2e  
emissions compared to standard diesel road transport.
2
)
 Durin
g the period September 2020 to August 2021.Progress: carbon removals
—  Read about our investments in regenerative agriculture projects, as part of our Biodiversity  
work.
Learnings
—  Continuing to move from estimated data towards real supplier data is essential to improving our scope 3 emissions reporting accuracy . But 
we’ve found several challenges, such as reliable data provision — particularly where volumes of business with different suppliers change month to month — and ensuring we have the capacity to discuss data with suppliers where needed. Digital solutions that enable easy data sharing are key to overcoming these challenges.
—  We continue to see the value of engaging with 
policy makers at a local level to influence and align with climate-related policies.Future focus
—  We will accelerate our focus on supply chain emissions reductions through investments, incentives and support systems, while  
continuing to explore options for long-term carbon removals projects.
—  We will continue to improve our emissions 
data systems. Our Business Tech function will help develop data analysis systems for the supplier factory level, and we will work to improve transport emissions data by partnering with  
the Global Logistics Emissions Council  to find  
a global standard for accurately measuring logistics emissions.
P. 24  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALBiodiversity
Biodiversity is a foundation for healthy ecosystems 
and communities. It’s also interconnected with our business. The virgin natural materials in our products depend upon fertile soil and healthy forests. And our entire value chain — particularly our raw material sourcing — has the potential to impact biodiversity. 
The ongoing loss of biodiversity is a systemic 
risk that threatens the future prosperity of our industry and the survival of humanity. Average wildlife populations have decreased by more than two-thirds in the past 50 years,
1 and 
transformative change is needed to reverse this trend. Shifting from wasteful models of resource use based on extraction towards a circular, regenerative economy is essential to restoring biodiversity and supporting thriving communities.
We have a responsibility to avoid or reduce 
our impact on biodiversity by preserving and enhancing the natural world — for the sake of current and future generations and to ensure the resilience of our own business and supply chains. Our ambition is to have a net positive impact on biodiversity  by:
—  Working to prevent and reduce our overall impact on the biodiversity and natural ecosystems touched by our value chain.—  Supporting the protection and restoration  
of biodiversity and natural ecosystems in line  
with scientific advice.
We are developing targets and actions to support 
this ambition, in line with the ARRRT (Avoid, Reduce, Restore & Regenerate, Transform) framework. Our work on biodiversity has strong links with our existing goals and activities on climate, water, materials, circularity and resource use, and chemicals. We are working to source more materials farmed with regenerativepractices. These practices aim to improve environmental wellbeing by increasing soil fertility, biodiversity, soil carbon sequestration, water retention and cleanliness, while contributing  
to community resilience and livelihoods.
Ongoing international efforts to develop global 
biodiversity goals and reporting frameworks have been delayed due to Covid-19. We remain engaged in these conversations and we are part of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial  
Disclosures  forum. We contribute to positive 
impact beyond our own business through our commitment to Business for Nature  and The  
Fashion Pact , our ongoing partnership with WWF  
and our participation in the International Platform   
for Insetting .
Read more about our approach to biodiversity .
1)  WWF Livin g Planet Report 2020.
P. 25  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Biodiversity
Progress
—  To accelerate progress towards our 
biodiversity ambition, H&M Group is a Science Based Targets  Network  (SBTN) Corporate 
Engagement Program participant, pledging alignment with SBTN’s goals and vision, and contributing advice and end-user insights to the development of SBTN methods and tools.
—  We have started to map our full value chain 
using the SBTN method and will use findings to set targets reducing our impact on nature, based on prioritisation of our current impacts. 
—  We invested in initiatives targeting our highest-
impact areas of raw material production:
  – T
hrough our partnership with WWF, we 
started a project in the Satpura-Pench wildlife corridor in central India, supporting smallholder cotton farmers to adopt regenerative farming practices. The project aims to directly improve soil and pollinator biodiversity and help farmers build sustainable incomes, while also improving the local landscape to support larger species such  
as tigers. This year we began a small pilot  
with 150 farmers, and plan to scale this up  
to reach more than 6,000 farmers over the next four years. 
  – As a F
ashion Pact Signatory, we were able 
to join the T ransforming Fashion for Nature project, funded by the Global Environment Facility in partnership with Conservation International, through which we will  
analyse the land, biodiversity and ecosystem impacts of our leather supply chain in Argentina, aligned with the  
SBTN framework.
  – W
e started a project with WWF in South 
Africa, in the location where the newest National Park in the country is being established. The project aims to engage 70 communal smallholders and 10 large commercial sheep farmers in working towards regenerative wool production that improves biodiversity and social development.
  – R
ead more about our work on cotton, 
man-made cellulosic fibres and other materials . 
—  We were one of five recipients of a Green Traffic Light in the Ecogain Biodiversity Index  
2021 , out of 240 companies assessed. This 
recognition is given to companies aiming to reach at least no net loss of biodiversity by 2030, although the requirements will be adjusted as global goals develop.
—  We supported the science-policy interface 
for biodiversity by continuing to sponsor the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on  
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services  (IPBES).—  To encourage systemic action on biodiversity, we contributed to an Ellen MacArthur Foundation study  on how the circular economy can tackle 
biodiversity loss and we shared our approach to protecting nature at IPBES and International Union for Conservation of Nature  (IUCN) events. During 
COP15, we called for governments to deliver a meaningful and actionable Global Biodiversity Framework by signing the Business for Nature Letter from CEOs to Heads of State .
—  We support and provide advisory input to WWF’s global Biodiversity Stewardship Programme through our partnership with WWF. 
Learnings
—  Like many companies, we are in the early stages of learning how to measure our impact and dependency on nature, with the ambition to set biodiversity targets. Ongoing efforts to develop global goals, methods and standards will help guide us. 
—  To achieve our ambition of a net positive 
impact on biodiversity, we have learned that we need to work in a variety of ways to reach scalability — both by joining existing initiatives and developing material-specific projects tailored to our own business and supply chain.
—  The climate crisis and nature loss are two sides 
of the same coin — we cannot tackle one without the other. The regenerative agriculture projects we’ve started are an example of our commitment to address these issues. In the coming year we will start supporting the protection of existing carbon sinks (e.g. tropical rainforest) and their associated biodiversity values.
Future focus
—  While we finish work to assess our impact and dependency on nature in line with the SBTN method, we have already started, and will continue, working on initial KPIs for biodiversity to support our net positive ambition. We see this as an iterative process, as we improve data collection and understanding of our impacts.
—  We will continue to collaborate and work through 
cross-sectoral platforms in an effort to advance shared standards and learning on biodiversity.
—  We will invest in projects connected to our 
most impactful raw materials, with the aim to shift to regenerative practices and enhance local biodiversity. We will also continue to select materials and processes that decrease our impact on nature.
P. 26  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Water
Water availability is the global issue most impacted 
by the climate crisis.1 Existing pressures on water 
resources are accelerated by climate change, placing ecosystems at high risk of water scarcity under further stress and exacerbating existing water access inequalities.
Risks to water availability impact our value chain, 
which is reliant on water for production processes. Access to clean, safe water is also a fundamental human right. Globally, 771 million people don’t have access to clean water close to home,
2 and 31% of 
schools do not have clean water.3 
We have a duty to use water responsibly and help safeguard water quality, accessibility and availability, especially in areas of high water risk.
We work towards reducing negative impact on 
water through improvements in our supply chain and enable others to do the same. Our Water Stewardship Strategy and Water Roadmap 2018-2022  guide our approach and actions. 
We use WWF’s Water Risk Filter  to assess risks 
in our operations and supply chain. Our water management requirements for suppliers include minimum and aspirational requirements on water use, quality and management.Water is a key focus for our partnership with WWF . 
We also collaborate with organisations such as  the 2030 Water Resources Group  (2030 WRG).  
We align our reporting with the Sustainable  
Apparel Coalition  and Zero Discharge of 
Hazardous Chemicals .
Progress
—  We continued our work with WWF to set context-specific (contextual) water targets and develop our new 2030 Water Strategy. Together, we identified the contextual water conditions for over 1,100 of our suppliers, including issues such as external governance, WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene), quality, water scarcity, flooding and extreme climate-induced events. We are using  the findings to develop targets for each supplier site that align water performance with relevant water challenges. 
—  To share learnings from our work with WWF,  
we co-published two guides: Contextual Water  
Targets  and Putting Water Strategy into Context , 
for companies looking to begin or currently 
engaged in similar exercises .
—  The Covid-19 pandemic continued to affect suppliers’ water performance:  – D
ue to reduced demand for orders during  
the pandemic, many factories had to run machines at very low production capacity without being able to achieve equivalent  water use reductions. This impacted progress toward our water consumption reduction  goal — we achieved a 10.3% reduction in production water use from a 2017 baseline  and a 6.6% reduction compared to last year,  
making it unlikely we will meet our goal of  -25% by 2022 .
 
  –
 Partial operation or closure of factories 
also affect wastewater treatment plant performance, many of which require a continuous flow of wastewater to continue working effectively. We continued to share guidance on wastewater treatment care, from the German development agency GIZ, with all our business partners. In 2021, 88% of supplier factories with on-site effluent treatment plant (ETP) functionality assessments achieved green grade and 98% had discharge water quality that is Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals wastewater compliant.
  – W
e paused or delayed dialogue with 
suppliers on investments in new technology  or equipment to improve water use. 
—  Where possible, we continued to partner  with our suppliers to deploy water efficiency measures. For example, H&M HOME implemented a water efficiency project with suppliers in India, achieving 35-40% reduction in water use.
—  We worked with suppliers in Bangladesh to 
expand water recycling in denim washing facilities, 
1) B ased on the sixth report from the IPCC.
2)
 WHO/UNICEF J
oint Monitoring Programme 2021.
3)
  WHO/UNICEF J
oint Monitoring Programme 2020: Drinking water, 
sanitation and hygiene in schools; Global baseline report.
P. 27  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Water
and 34 suppliers now have these facilities in place. 
Globally, 21% of production water is being recycled and 43% of factories in the H&M Group supply chain have rainwater harvesting systems, where this is feasible. 
—  We integrated water efficiency and recycling 
KPIs into our supplier Sustainability Index , making 
a direct link between supplier water performance and our purchasing decisions. 
Learnings
—  Our work on contextual water targets has shown there is sometimes disconnection between available data and what our teams know is happening on the ground. This highlights the importance of engaging with our colleagues and business partners to understand real-time risks. 
—  The impacts of Covid-19 emphasised the 
need to plan for significant unexpected events, so that we are always prepared to support suppliers to continue making progress with water use, regardless of circumstances. This includes preparing for climate change induced disasters or events that can have unprecedented impact like the Covid-19 pandemic.
—  Contextual water strategies set the stage 
for future science-based water targets, so it is important we work now to maximise data quality and comparability. Gathering granular-level water data is currently a challenge and makes industry benchmarking difficult. Progress will require collaboration with peers and experts. 
Future focus
—  We are developing a standardised method of water benchmarking for H&M Group suppliers.  
As a first step, we engaged with an industry- leading expert to look at our water efficiency  data for each step in the manufacturing process, so we can identify the most impactful parts of  our production processes and focus on these  first. The reviewer noted the strong level of transparency across our supplier water data  and suggested potential actions including maximum water use caps, efficiency-related bonus schemes, communication of low-water use products and technology advice for suppliers.
—  We will finalise our new Water Strategy,  
based on our work with WWF on contextual  
water targets and learnings from our existing 
roadmap. This will include setting new goals focused on outcomes. For example, we’ll move from goals on production water recycling and store equipment efficiency to adopt a more challenging freshwater consumption reduction goal in line with our circular ambition and to stay within planetary boundaries .Key water performance data
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 GOAL
Reduction of production water usage  
compared to 2017 baseline (l/kg, l/pc, l/m)1  
— see bar chart below− –5.9% –3.8% –10.3% –25%
Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) functionality assessments achieving green grade
2 93% 91% 95% 88% 100%
ETP discharged water quality that is Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals wastewater compliant (Foundation Level)
87% 93% 96% 98% 100%
Water recycled out of total production  water consumption
3 − 13% 17.6% 21%15% 
(achieved 
early)
 
Litre per unit of product (l/pc)
2017 BASELINE 2021 ACTUAL 2022 TARGET24 23104
20 2286
18 1778Litre per metre of fabric (l/m)Litre per kg dyed fabric (l/kg) 
Change in production water efficiency1)   I ncludes manufacturing, fabric dyeing and printing suppliers in both tier 1 
and tier 2 with water intensive wet production, based on performance data, 
reported by factory and calculated using weighted averages for litre per kg of dyed knitted fabric, litre per metre of woven/denim fabric, and litre per unit of product washed. We have updated our weighted average efficiency calculation this year by factoring in the water consumption for specific products, how much of each product is produced, and the water consumed by factory, country, region and globally. This gives us a more accurate picture of  
water efficiency improvement and has led to changes in our historic performance data.
2)
  2
6 supplier factories (10%) with on-site ETP were approved as suppliers 
recently and they are in a two-year timeline to improve their grade to green.  6 supplier factories (2%) are yet to achieve the required level of functionality.
3)
 B
ased on Q1-Q3 performance data.
P. 28  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Our circular ecosystem
Resources such as healthy soil and forests are 
being depleted faster than they regenerate. We’re transforming how we operate to optimise our use of resources — playing our part in the urgent need to protect nature and reduce our climate impact, while building a resilient and efficient business. 
H&M Group is transitioning to a circular 
ecosystem. This ecosystem transforms how we design and create our products and systems, work with suppliers and partners, and interact with customers. It supports the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s vision for a circular economy   
where design eliminates waste and pollution, circulates products and materials (at their highest value) and regenerates nature. We focus on three, interconnected areas:
—  Circular products . Creating products that are 
made to last, from safe, recycled and sustainably 
sourced input that can circulate multiple times. 
—  Circular supply chains . Fuelling systems 
that circulate products and support circular 
production processes and material flows.
—  Circular customer journeys . Providing 
accessible ways to experience and engage in 
circular fashion where products are used more, repaired, reused and recycled.Our work towards circularity is crucial for  
achieving our climate and biodiversity ambitions . 
It presents the opportunity for our business to create meaningful, long-lasting engagements  
with customers as they repair, reuse and resell products. We’re also mindful of what a shift to circularity will mean for the future of employment   
in the fashion industry.
In 2021, we took meaningful steps towards 
becoming more circular — although we know there is still much work ahead. We tripled the volume of recycled materials used in our garments and confirmed the ambition for all our products to be designed for circularity  by 2025 
— supported by our new circular design tool Circulator . We launched a blueprint for a circular 
fashion  industry  within planetary boundaries, 
the product of a three-year research project by the Stockholm Resilience Centre together with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, funded by H&M Group. This will guide our work and hopefully inspire peers. In our stakeholder survey , 56% of 
respondents rated our circularity work as good  
or very good. 
See our Circular KPIs and highlights  from 2021. 
 
 Find out more about our approach to 
circular fashion.
CIRCULAR SUPPLY CHAINS
C
IR
C
ULAR CUSTOMER JOURNEYS
CIRCULAR PRO
D
U
C
TSACCESS
R AW 
MATERIALSUSE & CARED ES I G N & 
PRODUCT  
DEVELOPMENT
COLLECT   
& SORTASSORTMENT  
PLANNING
R EPA I R & 
REMAKE
RECYCLEOur circular ecosystem
We focus on integrating circularity across our 
entire ecosystem by building on the synergies and interconnections of all parts of our value chain.
PRODUCTION
P. 29  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Design is our first opportunity to enable more 
circular products. We aim to design all our products for circularity
1 by 2025 . We are  
starting with the products we produce and our packaging , as well as interior products and stores, 
before extending to our entire business, including offices and distribution centres . 
Our commercial product teams are led by H&M Group’s circular product development tool — Circulator  — which aligns with the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation’s circular economy vision . 
It guides us to create products from safe and recycled or renewable inputs, designed to be used more, and made to be made again. 
Circulator assists our product teams to prioritise 
durability and recyclability according to a product’s purpose, and to select the appropriate level of durability for a product’s use.
Circular design is an important enabler for circular  
business models  and is a crucial part of reducing 
resource use, which will help us meet our climate 
and biodiversity goals. Our teams use tools such as our Material Categorisation  to inform the 
selection of materials . CIRCULAR PRODUCTS:
Design
Progress: circular product 
design
—  We set an aim to design all our products 
for circularity1 by 2025. To illustrate our belief 
in the need for an industrywide shift towards circularity, we called for circular product design requirements in the European Union. 
—  The majority of our brands began testing our 
Circulator prototype, which we publicly launched in November 2021. The tool supports teams to measure the circular potential of products, providing a circular product score that considers the materials and design strategies chosen in relation to a product’s purpose. In 2021, we  
began Circulator training for our management teams and in 2022 the training will reach all our product development teams. 
 Find out more 
about Circulator.
—  The majority of our brands continued  
testing and using 3D design tools to decrease 
physical samples. And we are working to improve efficiency of pattern making — see Optimising 
Resource Use . —  Our brands launched collections designed  
for circularity:
  – H&M pr
esented the first collection using an 
early version of the Circulator tool, as part of its Innovation Collection, while Monki released a collection in early 2021 testing out the Circulator Guide.
  – H
&M, Monki and Weekday joined with others 
in our industry to advance the Ellen MacArthur Foundations’ Jeans Redesign guidelines . H&M 
released a ladieswear collection following the guidelines in 2021. Further collections are in development for 2022.
Learnings
—  We have had a steep learning curve on the complexity of circular design, which can be quite subjective and has many trade-offs. As we see  
the industry narrative on circular design evolving, we are increasingly convinced there is no one  
size fits all with circular design. We need to take  
a differentiated approach and begin to understand the nuanced needs of circular  
design depending on product purpose.—  To strengthen the role of durability in the design stage, we worked to incorporate product and material lifespan information into our Circulator tool. With Delft University, we confirmed that refinements to Circulator enable selection of the best level of durability for different product purposes. We learnt that it’s crucial to also consider non-physical durability, such as emotional attachment to products.
Future focus
—  We will work towards using Circulator to  
create all our products. To fast track the transition to a circular economy, we will continue sharing our learnings with the industry and will regularly update the Circulator Guide to share our latest learnings. We hope by sharing the Circulator  
tool, we will support industry acceleration to  
a circular model.
—  We will continue to engage with European 
Union (EU) policy makers on legislative proposals for the EU Sustainable Product Initiative and EU Ecodesign Directive.
1)  In a ccordance with our Circulator tool.
P.30  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALThe fashion industry depends on materials 
to create its products. These can be natural materials such as cotton, wood and wool, or synthetic options such as polyester and polyamide. All materials have an impact on our planet, from their production, use and, ultimately, end of life and disposal.
To reduce our environmental impact, we aim  
for 100% of our materials to be either recycled 
or sourced in a more sustainable way by 2030 , 
including 30% recycled materials by 2025 .  
Read more about how we define more sustainably 
sourced for different materials in our Material  
Categorisation .
We prioritise work on the materials we use the most or that have the greatest potential environmental or social impact. For all materials, our Responsible Raw Material Sourcing Policy  
guides our approach. Our material selection is informed by third-party lifecycle assessment data and benchmarks — such as the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Materials Sustainability Index and Textile Exchange’s guidelines on Preferred  
Fiber & Materials — and verified by third-party certification schemes, where applicable. We  
work with supply chain partners to improve traceability and transparency . CIRCULAR PRODUCTS:
Material choice
1)  B ased on season 3 and season 4 data for 2021. Includes all shell materials — 
does not include materials used as filling, lining or trims on garments.
2) 
 N
ot all more sustainably sourced materials can be naturally grown or  
cultivated, i.e. minerals or stones. In these instances, we set up material-
specific policies such as the use of external standard schemes to secure  more sustainable sourcing.3)  See p age 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points. The 
limited assurance process included all cotton data (apart from in-conversion cotton) and data for our top three recycled materials.
Achieving our circular ambitions requires us to accelerate development of new materials and recycling innovations. We innovate together  
with our brands, the Circular Innovation Lab,  
our H&M CO:LAB investment arm, inventors of sustainable materials and processes including winners of H&M Foundation’s Global Change  
Award , and industry experts. 
Progress: overall
—  We achieved 80.0% recycled or other more sustainably sourced materials, including tripling the share of recycled materials to 17.9% (largely due to increased volumes of recycled cotton and polyester), making good progress towards our 2030 goal.
—  We established a new internal Material 
organisation to accelerate our sustainable materials strategy. The organisation will work closely with our assortments teams to scale up innovations and sustainable material sourcing across H&M Group.
—  The Textile Exchange’s 2020 Material Change  
Insights Report  identified H&M Group as one 
of 36 leading companies pioneering industry 2021 2020 2019Recycled
201880.0%
64.5%
57.1% 56.6%17.9%
5.8%
2.2% 1.4%
62.1%58.7%54.9% 55.2%Other more sustainably
sourced2,3
% recycled or other 
more sustainably sourced materials
1Our materials basket1
2025 goal:  3 0% recycled
2030 goal:  
 1
00% recycled or  
more sustainably sourced2021 2020 2019Recycled
201880.0%
64.5%
57.1% 56.6%17.9%
5.8%
2.2% 1.4%
62.1%58.7%54.9% 55.2%Other more sustainably
sourced2,3
 61.4%
3.3%
0.1%8.6%Cotton
Polyester
PolyamideWood and 
man/hyphen.lcmadecellulosic ﬁbres LeatherOthermaterials
Wool0.9%20.1%
5.6%
P.31  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 20211)  O ther more sustainably sourced cotton includes cotton sourced through 
the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), in-conversion organic cotton, regenera -
tive cotton, and cotton from other innovative sources. 
2) 
 F
igures relate to use of BCI cotton.  
3
)
  W
ater savings relate to blue water use (irrigation). This relates to farmer 
inputs, and no other forms of water use. 
4)
  
See page 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points.  
The limited assurance process included all cotton data (apart from in-  
conversion cotton) and data for our top three recycled materials.2021 2020 2019Recycled cotton
2018100% 100%96.6% 94.8%1.8% 7. 0 %0.6% 0.3%
78.3% 80.0% 79.9%Organic cotton
Other sustainably sourced cotton1 
21.7%14.6% 16.0% 19.9%
71.3%
2021 2020 2019Recycled cotton
2018100% 100%96.9% 94.8%1.8% XX%0.6% 0.3%
XX% 78.3% 80.0% 79.9%Organic cotton
Other more sustainably sourced cotton1 
XX%14.6% 16.0% 19.9%% of total cotton that is recycled, 
organic, or other more sustainably sourced
1,4
Goal:   Continue sourcing 100% recycled, organic, 
in-conversion or BCI certified cotton.Material choice
transformation, out of 191 analysed. We were one of nine companies leading on material circularity.
—  We increased transparency by publishing the 
detail of the materials used in our products — see our materials basket . 
Progress: cotton
—  In 2020, we achieved our goal to source  
100% more sustainably sourced cotton (recycled, organic and other more sustainably sourced cotton).
1 We will continue to strengthen our 
criteria for more sustainably sourced cotton, with a greater focus on increasing use of recycled, regenerative and organic cotton, and innovative alternatives.  
—  To support more cotton farmers to transition to 
organic practices and accelerate capacity building in the organic cotton sector, we expanded our use of “in-conversion” cotton . In-conversion cotton 
is the output from farms that are in process of getting organic certification. In 2021, we sourced in-conversion cotton from 2,000 farmers. 
—  As part of our increased focus on regenerative 
farming practices, we launched a project with 150  
smallholder cotton farmers  and WWF in India. We 
plan to reach more than 6,000 farmers.
—  In collaboration with the Circular Innovation 
Lab, COS tested Materra™ , a new way to grow 
cotton that increases yields and fibre quality, while minimising water and pesticide use as well as carbon footprint. The systems are optimised for developing regions facing climate volatility. H&M Group’s Circular Innovation Lab is working with technology company Materra to set up an R&D farm in India in early 2022. The aim is to optimise Materra’s hydroponic cotton farming system to local conditions. The project will run for two years and generate valuable information to enable a scale-up of more sustainable cotton supply chains using Materra’s technology.
—  In 2021, our sourcing of other more sustainably 
sourced cotton contributed to:
2 
 – 30 billion g
allons of water being saved.3 
 – 7
3,287 kilograms of pesticides being avoided.
 – 
 USD 5
9 million additional profit for farmers.
—  H&M Group’s support for projects with the Organic Cotton Accelerator and other organic cotton initiatives in India during the 2020-2021 crop season resulted in:
 
 – 1
4,000 farmers involved in organic cotton 
projects.
 
 – USD 1.
28 million in premiums received by 
farmers, supporting investment in organic farming.
 
 – 100% pr
ocurement by H&M Group brands  
of committed volumes.
P.32  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021—  We began requesting that our largest 
viscose producers share data through the Textile Exchange’s new MMC fibre transparency dashboard, enabling us to track our progress against the Roadmap  towards responsible  
viscose and modal fibre manufacturing. 
—  To make it possible to achieve our 2025 MMC 
goal, we worked to increase availability of  
MMC fibres that meet our requirements:
 
 – A
s part of our five-year partnership 
with Renewcell , we planned how to scale 
production of its Circulose® material in  
2022 to meet our brands’ future needs. In 2021, nine styles across various brands and assortments used Circulose®, an MMC fibre made from recycled cotton waste and developed through support from our H&M CO:LAB investment arm. 
 
 – F
ollowing further investment from H&M 
CO:LAB, Infinited Fibre Company  is scaling up 
to move closer to commercial volumes. This will expand production of Infinna
TM, an MMC 
fibre from regenerated cotton waste first tested by Weekday in collaboration with the Circular Innovation Lab in 2021. 
 
 – W
e signed the Fashion Forever Green Pact , 
an FSC initiative to promote responsible sourcing of MMC fibres. Through this, we are collaborating to improve supply chain traceability, which is fundamental to  
knowing that all our virgin MMC fibres Material choice
Progress: wood & man-made 
cellulosic (MMC) fibres 
—  We continued working towards our goals  
and commitments:
 
 
– By end of 2025, source responsible  
viscose in line with our commitment to  
the Changing Markets roadmap .  
 
 
– By end of 2025, all wood and paper used in 
our products and packaging will be made of 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified or recycled materials. 
 
 
– By end of 2025, we aim to only source 
MMC fibres from FSC-certified sources, or replace them with next-generation fibres from sources such as agricultural residues and pre- and post-consumer textiles. This supplements our requirement that MMC fibre producers must be verified as low risk by the CanopyStyle audit.
 
 – T
hese goals are part of our commitment to 
zero deforestation in our supply chain by the end of 2025. Learn more in our Responsible  
Raw Material Sourcing Policy  and Roadmap for  
MMC fibres .
—  78% wood in our packaging is FSC-certified. Find further packaging data in Packaging . 
P.33  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.33  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
originate from FSC-certified sources by  
the end of 2025.
 
 – H
&M Group’s Circular Innovation Lab have 
worked with SPINNOVA ® and the first products 
using their low impact recyclable fibre made of 
certified wood will be launched in spring 2022.
 
 
– TreeToTextile , part-owned by the H&M 
group, continued upscaling production of its low cost, 100% traceable cellulosic fibre, sourced from sustainably managed forests.
Progress: animal-based fibres
—  43.6% (12.1% in 2020) of our wool was Responsible Wool Standard  (RWS) compliant — 
marking progress towards our goal to, by end of 2025, only source virgin wool from RWS-certified farms . 
—  95% (13% in 2020) of our cashmere was Good  
Cashmere Standard  (GCS) compliant — meaning 
we are quickly progressing towards our goal to,  
by end of 2025, source all virgin cashmere  
from GCS-certified farms . 
—  100% (100% in 2020) of our mohair was Responsible Mohair Standard  (RMS) compliant 
or from recycled sources — continuing our commitment to only buy from RMS-  
certified farms .—  100% (100% in 2020) of our virgin down was Responsible Down Standard  (RDS) compliant — 
maintaining our record of only sourcing from  
RDS-certified farms  since 2016.
—  We continued participating in the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Animal Fibers  
Roundtable , which focuses on the animal welfare 
and environmental impacts of animal fibre production. We are also closely following the development of Textile Exchange’s Climate+  
strategy, which aligns with our environmental  
and social strategies.
—  H&M highlighted innovative animal-substitute 
fabrics through its Co-Exist Story Collection , a 
completely vegan collection approved by People  
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).Material choice
Recycled and more sustainable material sourcing
2019 2020 2021 Goal
Materials from recycled sources, as a percentage of all materials1 2.2% 5.8% 17.9 % 30% by 2025
Recycled polyester as a percentage of all polyester 8.3% 20.8% 63.7% 100% by 2025
Responsible Wool Standard-certified (RWS) wool as a percentage of all wool 11.6% 12.1% 43.6% 100% RWS certified, or from recycled or regenerated sources by 2025
Good Cashmere Standard-certified (GCS) cashmere as a percentage of all cashmere N/A213% 95.0% 100% GCS certified, or from recycled or regenerated sources by 2025
Responsible Mohair Standard-certified mohair as a percentage of all mohair N/A3100% 100% Maintain 100%
Responsible Down Standard-certified down as a percentage of all down 100% 100% 100% Maintain 100%
Chrome-free, animal-based leather as a percentage of all leather 40% 44% 50.7% 100% by 2025
1)  See p age 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points. The limited assurance process  
included data for our top three recycled materials.2)  S tandard adopted in 2020.
3)
  W
e stopped sourcing mohair in mid-2018 due to PETA revealing systematic animal abuse in May 2018.  
The Textile Exchange launched the Responsible Mohair Standard in 2020.
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.34  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002Progress: leather
—  50.7% (44% in 2020) of all leather products 
were produced with chrome-free tanned leather, including vegetable tanned leather and metal-free leather. By end of 2025, we aim for all our animal-based leather to be chrome-free .
—  By reducing supply chain complexity, we  
can better focus on collaborating with tanneries on sustainable practices. 100% of our tanneries in Asia comply with Leather Working Group environmental best practice guidelines. After simplifying our leather supply chain during 2020 to include only 40-50 tanneries, we started exploring solutions to extend traceability beyond the tanneries, eventually back to farm level. —  We continue to engage in Textile Exchange’s Responsible Leather Round Table  to help reduce 
the environmental impact at farm level, as well as advance animal welfare and fair treatment  
of workers.
—  We maintained our search for bio-based 
leather alternatives. For example, H&M used Desserto , a leather alternative partly made from 
cactus. H&M Group’s Circular Innovation Lab  
has worked with Natural Fiber Welding and  
the first products using their material MIRUM ® 
will be launched in spring 2022. MIRUM is an all-natural, plant-based material using renewable resources to create a plastic-free alternative  
to leather. Progress: recycled &  
innovative materials
—  17.9% (5.8% in 2020) of our materials  
were from recycled sources — as we work towards our goal that by 2025, 30% of our  
total materials will be from recycled sources .  
This is the result of large increases in our use  
of recycled cotton and polyester — two  
materials for which recycling technology is available at scale.  
 Find out more about  
how we’re scaling use of recycled materials.—  63.7% of our polyester is from recycled  
sources (according to the Higg Materials Sustainability Index), which have a significantly lower carbon footprint than conventional  
sources. We have set a new goal to phase out virgin polyester and source 100% recycled polyester by 2025 , in support of Textile 
Exchange’s Recycled Polyester Challenge .  
This marks an important milestone on our  
journey towards 100% recycled or other more sustainably sourced materials by 2030.  
We continued to examine the possibility of  
recycling post-consumer polyester textiles  
using scalable, automated sorting techniques  
and chemical recycling. Material choice
P.35  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUAL
—  To accelerate the development of recycling 
technologies and use of more sustainable materials in Europe, we continued to engage in the European Union projects DEMETO ,
1  
EFFECTIVE2 and New Cotton .3 The DEMETO 
project concluded in 2021, with the establishment of a demonstration plant in Italy. We have also worked on influencing policy — read more about our work on Public Affairs .
 —  Our brands expanded use of recycled materials. For example, 93% of polyester and polyamide used by Weekday in 2021 was recycled. H&M HOME grew its use of recycled cotton, aluminium and linen, with recycled content now forming 20% of its collections. 
—  We increased use of innovative materials, 
including:
 
 
– Fairbrics : The Circular Innovation Lab made 
the first garment using this potentially climate positive technology, which was worn by our CEO, Helena Helmersson at the Fashion CEO Agenda 2021 . Fairbrics is a Global Change  
Award  winner.  – F LWRDWN™ : down-alternative made 
using hand-picked wildflowers and recycled biological materials, used by COS and H&M.
 
 
 
– Liva Reviva : viscose fibre made from pre-
consumer textile waste and wood pulp, used by H&M HOME and Monki. In addition, & Other Stories and COS used Livaeco — made from fully traceable FSC certified fibres.
 
 
– Made of Air : scaled use of this plastic-like 
material partly made from biowaste in  
H&M’s Science Innovation Stories collection, and began evaluating it for usage in H&M special collections accessories and as a potential replacement for material used in internal garment distribution system boxes.
 
 
– Naia™ Renew : fibre from sustainably sourced 
wood pulp and recycled waste plastics, used by ARKET and COS.
Learnings
—  In order for us to become a circular business, long-term partnerships are vital for scaling availability of more sustainable and recycled materials. The development process can take several years before materials are ready to use across our brands. We need to be an active part in the transition journey towards more sustainably sourced materials such as those from organic  
and regenerative sources.—  Increasing textile recycling is vital for securing our future sourcing of recycled materials. Our survey of more than 25 recycling companies around the world formed the basis of our material recyclability assessment at the design stage , so in 
future we can develop products that can be more easily recycled.
—  While we use indexes such as the Sustainable 
Apparel Coalition’s Materials Sustainability Index, Textile Exchange’s guidelines on Preferred Fiber & Materials and certification to inform material selection, we recognise these tools are based on specific methodologies that may not cover all environmental and social considerations. 
—  We are working with FSC and our supply chain 
to solve the challenges with chain of custody in the MMC fibres supply chain to ensure we only source FSC certified fibres by the end of 2025.Future focus
—  To meet our climate and biodiversity goals, we need to base our material sourcing on responsible and circular principles and optimise the materials we use.
—  We will continue to scale our use of recycled 
materials. This includes increasing the supply of fibres available for recycling as well as developing the technologies needed to process fibres into new materials. Our initial focus will be on expanding textile-to-textile recycling for synthetic materials, and on increasing our use of recycled cotton and viscose.
—  For virgin natural fibres, we will support use of 
regenerative agricultural techniques  that improve 
farmers’ livelihoods.
—  We are closely following the development of 
Textile Exchange’s Climate+ strategy, which aligns with our environmental and social strategies.
1)  D EMETO receives funding from the European Union’s framework 
programme for research and innovation horizon 2020 (2014–2020)  
under grant agreement no. 768573.
2)
  E
FFECTIVE received funding from the Bio-based Industries Joint 
Undertaking (JU) under grant agreement no. 792195. The JU receives 
support from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme and the Bio-based Industries Consortium.
 3)
  N
ew Cotton project has received funding from the European Union’s 
Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme under grant agreement no. 101000559.Tiny fibres — microfibres — can be released when 
garments are washed during production and by customers. These fibres run into oceans, pollute habitats and can eventually end up in drinking water and food. Chemicals used to dye and treat products change how easily fibres degrade. Selecting materials and production processes that minimise microfibre shedding is therefore crucial to reducing the impact of the fashion industry on our planet. 
We are committed to researching and 
addressing microfibre emissions, as we  
develop a groupwide Microfibres Roadmap. Our approach  includes:
—  Choose and design yarns and fabrics that minimise microfibre shedding.
—  Research new production processes and 
requirements to minimise shedding.
—  Offer repair services and microfibre-reducing 
laundry bags to customers, and support the development of laundry machine filter systems.
—  Improve technologies that enable reuse  
and recycling.CIRCULAR PRODUCTS:
Microfibres
Progress
—  Microfibres are an industrywide problem 
and we collaborate to develop solutions. We signed The Microfibre Consortium (TMC) 2030  
Commitment , a global commitment to work 
towards zero impact on nature from textile  
fibre fragmentation by 2030. TMC members, including H&M Group, collaborated with research partners to develop a roadmap to achieve this commitment based on a common vision for the fashion industry.
—  Our 24-month research project —  
A Management Tool for Microplastics from Textile 
Production Process — continued in partnership with the Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel (HKRITA). Restrictions due to Covid-19 disrupted planned tests of microfibre emissions at H&M supplier factories. Instead, the team worked to develop new concepts in the HKRITA laboratory, such as using soundwaves to separate microfibres from water. 
Learnings
—  While the problem with microfibres is not new, widespread awareness is. Our work with TMC members and research experts demonstrates the need for a shared understanding of the issue, as a foundation for aligned action on this challenge. TMC provides a central hub through which understanding of individual materials and processes can be exchanged.
Future focus
—  We will continue developing a groupwide roadmap for microfibres in line with the  
Microfibre Consortium 2030 commitment. To inform this roadmap, we are resuming testing microfibre emissions with HKRITA and our suppliers as Covid-19 restrictions ease. Learnings from this work will be shared with policy makers as H&M Group participates in consultations on potential legislation.
P.36  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALToday, offcuts and scraps generated in the 
production process or during product delivery  
are considered waste. Our vision is that the  
whole mindset of the fashion industry shifts to treat this waste as the valuable resource it is. Similarly, faulty clothes or pre-loved items that have reached the end of their time with our customers offer a wealth of materials that can  
be recovered, reused and eventually recycled  
into new products.
To proactively optimise resource use, we:—  Optimise supply to produce to demand.   
We increasingly apply predictive artificial 
intelligence (AI) to optimise the supply chain and match production with demand. We use multiple solutions for quick reactions to fashion trends, quantification, timing and allocation of products. This has led to even more relevant customer offering with more full price sales and fewer markdowns, as well as a more efficient use of resources. 
—  Support resource-efficient production.  
We work closely together with suppliers to use 
resources as efficiently as possible, guided by our Responsible Waste Management Guidelines. The CIRCULAR SUPPL Y CHAIN: 
Optimising resource use
guidelines help us optimise use of fabric and other  
resources — decreasing resource use impact  
and reliance on natural resources as well as reducing financial costs.
—  Put faulty products to good use. If a product  
is faulty, we reuse or recycle the materials 
wherever possible.
—  Increase recycling. We work to improve  
and scale automatic sorting and efficient  
textile recycling .
We also work to optimise resource use at our 
stores, distribution centres and offices , during 
product delivery , and by maximising product life . 
Progress: optimising supply
—  We scaled use of AI and other tools to align production with demand. Our AI tool Movebox optimises supply by enabling redistribution of products to locations where there is demand. In 2021, we rolled out use of Movebox, which is now used by 60% of our sales markets (including franchise markets).—  We continued to work to ensure that no  
pre-consumer garments that could be used go  
to waste:
  – I
f a product isn’t performing as planned,  
we prioritise selling it within our primary sales channels, before using the product within internal circular initiatives. Afound provides an additional channel to share garments with customers. Only once we’ve reviewed all internal uses, we find solutions via trusted business partners including charities and outlets. Some of the returns that cannot be resold via original sales channel are sold via online-sales platform Sellpy. 
  – Th
e Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns 
resulted in massive changes in customer demand and behaviour, posing a challenge for our forecasts. Thanks to our systems to reassign stock to alternative sales channels as stores closed and customers increasingly shopped online, we were able to quickly adapt to maximise the sale of products already made, while ensuring nothing that could be used goes to waste. 
Progress: resource efficient 
production 
—  We tested our new Waste Recycling  
Strategy to learn how best to link fabric leftover 
from our orders with reuse and recycling.  
More than 50 of our tier 1 suppliers in five  
regions are participating in pilots with Reverse  
Resources  and Circular  Fashion Partnership ,  
to segregate cutting waste before handing it  
onto recyclers. 
—  240 patternmakers and product technologists 
across H&M Group received training in design software that calculates fabric consumption.  
As a result, we reduced fabric waste for our  
20 biggest dress styles by 12%.
P.37  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALOptimising resource use
Progress: faulty products
—  Where a product is faulty, we always look to 
reuse and recycling options first:
  – 0
.42% of our total product assortment was 
reused, repurposed or recycled (including charity donations) or recycled due to a fault (0.32% in 2020).
  – 0
.02% of our total product assortment  
was destroyed (prioritising incineration for energy recovery) due to failure of chemical tests, contamination by mould (for example, during transportation), or when no viable recycling or downcycling solution was available (0.03% in 2020).
Progress: recycling
—  We released a position paper, on waste as a resource, expressing our support for extended producer responsibility in the European Union and the creation of a secondary raw materials market for textiles.
—  By joining Fashion for Good’s 18-month  
Sorting for Circularity Project, we started a 
collaboration with other brands to scale recycling capacity in Europe.
—  We continued collecting garments in-store, 
totalling 15,944 tonnes this year, to provide feedstock for recycling. We are working to increase the availability  of suitable feedstock.
Learnings
—  Testing our Responsible Waste Management Guidelines shows the need for more localised recycling infrastructure. Developing this relies  
on investment and innovation in waste separation and recycling technology, and increasing the value of resources left over from production processes.
 
Future focus
—  Through our 2021 pilots, we successfully 
utilised around 500 tonnes of textile waste  
from our garment production factories across most of the production countries, recycling this back into our products. Next year, we plan to  
scale this process, partnering with our suppliers and with a wider network of recyclers to  
increase traceability of material waste within  
the value chain and accelerate the uptake of  
new recycling technologies.
—  Disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic 
delayed projects such as Monki’s expansion of innovative Green Machine mixed-fabric recycling technology. We will resume delayed projects as  
it becomes possible to safely do so.Faulty products
2019 2020 2021
Total product assortment reused (including charity 
donations) or recycled due to the products being faulty0.41% 0.32% 0.42%
Total product assortment destroyed1 0.03% 0.03% 0.02%
1)   D ue to the products having failed certain chemical tests, being contaminated by mould (for example during transportation) or when there was no viable recycling or 
downcycling solution available. We prioritise incineration for energy recovery where possible.
P.38  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Materials processing
Raw materials, such as cotton and wool, undergo 
a series of processes to produce a fabric and finally a garment. This includes washing, dyeing and printing — using energy, chemicals and water. Lowering the impact of these processes is an important step towards our climate and circular ambitions. We’re addressing five areas:
—  Chemicals . Reduce use, increase reuse or 
regeneration, and use Screened Chemistry. —  Energy . Improve efficiency and reduce CO
2e 
emissions. —  People. Ensure proper use of personal 
protective equipment by workers, avoiding adverse health or safety effects. —  Production waste. Reduce waste and increase recovery, reuse and recycling . 
—  Water . Reduce use, increase reuse and 
recycling; for wastewater, reduce quantity and improve quality.  
In 2021, we launched our printing roadmap.  
By 2030, our ambition is to maximise the use of 
processes that have significant savings in water, energy and chemicals. To achieve this, we will  
test and scale new techniques and technologies while working with our suppliers to ensure they follow our guidelines. Our new business venture, Creator Studio , offers 
on-demand B2B print services. This global platform for the merchandise industry allows external brands and content creators to utilise our lean production process and advanced made-to-order digital printing to reduce waste by matching supply to demand.
We’re investing in new washing and dyeing 
innovations too. For example:
—  Our brands use software installed at suppliers 
to track the use of low-impact washing — as defined by Jeanologia ’s® Environmental Impact  
Measurement  (EIM). Currently, 100% of the denim 
Weekday and 98% of the denim Monki source  
is rated low impact, achieving a green score in  
the EIM.
—  Colorifix , a biotech company partly backed by 
H&M Group, uses microbiology to produce and 
fix pigments on textiles, significantly reducing the use of chemicals, water and energy compared to conventional technology. H&M used fabric dyed in this way in its Colour Story  Collection SS21 .   
—  H&M CO:LAB invested in digital dyeing and finishing technology company, Alchemie . In 
collaboration with Circular Innovation Lab, H&M piloted Alchemie’s Endeavour
TM waterless smart 
dyeing process, as well as imogo ’s DigitalDyeing®, 
in rental products at its rental outlets in Stockholm and Berlin.CIRCULAR SUPPL Y CHAIN: 
P.39  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALCIRCULAR SUPPL Y CHAIN: 
Chemicals
We want to lead the change towards toxic-free 
fashion by 2030. Achieving this is critical to our circular ambition. Our Chemical Management  
Roadmap  commits us to zero discharge of 
hazardous chemicals and 100% safe and traceable chemicals . Our progressive approach 
takes us beyond compliance to chemicals suitable for circular products.
Collaboration is key to achieving industrywide 
progress. We are members of the AFIRM Group , 
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals  (ZDHC) 
and ChemSec Business Group.
We follow the AFIRM Restricted Substances List and the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted  
Substances List 2.0  (MRSL), as well as the 
ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines and Chemical Management System. Our H&M Group Chemical  
Restrictions  commit us to phasing out additional 
potentially harmful substances. We use the Screened Chemistry hazard-based scoring system (a third-party toxicological assessment)  
to identify safer chemicals.—  We engaged with policy makers , including 
providing input to the EU Chemicals Strategy   
and publishing a position paper on safe-by-  
design chemicals .
—  We initiated a phase-out of high priority endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) — substances that interfere with the hormonal system. We will continue phasing out all EDCs over the coming years.
—  We used safer alternatives to potassium 
permanganate (used to distress denim) for 79%  
of our denim products, with the goal to achieve 100% by 2023.
Learnings
—  100% ZDHC MRSL compliance is proving challenging due to the variety and complexity  
of our supply chain. —  Characterising and comparing chemicals’ properties can be a challenge. Screened Chemistry needs to be more widely adopted  
by the chemicals industry so brands can  
easily compare chemicals to identify best available options.
Future focus
—  We will continue to pilot and scale use of Screened Chemistry, as well as engaging with policy makers on this topic.
—  To progress use of safer chemicals in the 
non-textile supply chain, we will work towards common industry MRSLs for these supply chains and pilot digital chemical management tool BVE3 .
1)  Complianc e tracked using third-party tools CleanChain and BVE3.
2)
  W
e are working to report the most meaningful metrics for chemicals 
performance and will therefore no longer report product compliance 
with H&M Group Chemical Restrictions.Progress
—  We engaged with peers and experts to 
pilot version 3 of the Screened Chemistry methodology, which includes prints and dyes.  
We mapped use of Screened Chemistry in our denim supply chain and will use the learnings  
to scale coverage with these suppliers.
—  We were one of five brands (out of 30) awarded 
“aspirational level” during the annual assessment of ZDHC’s Brands to Zero leader programme . 
—  609 of our textile and leather suppliers (95%) are enrolled in the ZDHC programme, achieving 99.9% MRSL compliance for wastewater (99.9% in 2020) and 95% compliance for chemical input (88% in 2020).
1 Reaching and maintaining 100% 
enrolment is challenging due to the dynamic nature of our supply chain. 81% of chemicals used were assured to meet ZDHC requirements via the ZDHC Gateway, exceeding our goal of 60%.
2 
—  Our aim is to accelerate progress towards circular manufacturing and sustainable  
chemistry by encouraging partnership and use  
of shared data. For example, we completed our work with IKEA and others on chemical testing   
for recycled textiles .
P.40  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORTCIRCULAR CUSTOMER JOURNEY: 
Maximising product life &  
scaling circular business models
The future of fashion is circular. Instead of linear 
resource use — take, make, waste — we continue to develop ways of doing business that enable products to be used for longer and reused.  
We are working to provide accessible ways for customers to experience and engage in circular fashion and choose more sustainable options. Circular design , focusing on key qualities like 
durability and recyclability, is a major enabler  
for this shift.
Our ambition to maximise product life and 
offer circular business models at scale  helps 
us build a resilient, customer-focused business. Expanding circular business models allows us to meet the growing demand for sustainable design and services, and to develop more long-term, meaningful relationships with customers as they use repair, rental and resell options. 
Reducing our resource use by maximising  
product life and recirculating resources is  
crucial for reducing our environmental impact  
and fulfilling our climate and biodiversity goals.  
We are mindful that products or services 
accessed via these models must replace  
products sold through the traditional linear  retail model for an overall positive environmental impact. 
We focus on three levers to maximise product life 
and scale circular business models via the circular customer journey:
—  Use & care . We encourage customers to love 
their fashion items for longer and extend the life 
of their fashion favourites through care and repair initiatives.
—  Access . We offer a diverse range of access 
models through which customers can enjoy and 
experience fashion while keeping products in circulation.
—  Collect . We support customers to access 
services to donate pre-loved products so these 
can be reused, remade, or recycled.
Progress: use & care
—  H&M’s Take Care initiative continued to offer customers in 46 markets ways to care, repair and customise their clothing. In 2021, the Take 
 CIRCULAR SUPPLY CHAINS
C
IR
C
ULAR CUSTOMER JOURNEYS
CIRCULAR PRO
D
U
C
TSOur circular ecosystem in action
We aim to keep products and resources in circulation through the multiple loops of our ecosystem, prioritising the inner loops where  
they retain the highest value.
REPAIR
REUSE
REMAKE
RECYCLE
P.41  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Maximising product life & scaling circular business models
Care product range extended to 7 new markets, 
bringing the total to 17 markets. The brand  
offers repair services through 6 repair studios in  
4 markets.
—  To better connect post-consumer garments 
with repair services, COS launched a garment collecting initiative in Austria and Poland that prioritises fixing and repurposing clothes  
before recycling. 
Progress: access
—  Weekday expanded access to made-to-
measure jeans  to the public in its Götgatan store 
in Stockholm. The collaboration with unspun   
and H&M Group Laboratory offers the option  
to customise the fit and design of their jeans, which are then made to order. 
—  We expanded ways for customers to  
resell products:
  
 
– Customers in 24 markets can now shop 
second-hand garments through Sellpy , and 
customers in 4 markets can sell at Sellpy.  
H&M Group is a majority shareholder in Sellpy 
and H&M’s website directs customers to  
Sellpy in 7 markets. 
  – H
&M made it possible to buy second-hand 
garments from multiple brands alongside new H&M garments in Sweden from February 2022, offering a new, integrated customer experience by incorporating a curated second-hand assortment from Sellpy into  
its website.
  – C
ustomers in 3 markets can now buy and sell 
pre-owned clothes through our collaboration with business technology provider Reflaunt . 
H&M launched H&M Rewear  in Canada, while 
COS offers COS Resell in Germany and the United Kingdom.
  – W
eekday launched Weekday Curated  
2nd-hand  in 3 cities in Sweden. The curated, 
in-store collection gives customers the chance to buy and sell pre-owned clothes offline.
—  We expanded options to rent our products:
  – C
ustomers in 19 markets continued to rent 
kids’ clothing through ARKET’s collaboration with Circos . 
 
  – S
elected H&M stores in Amsterdam, Berlin 
and Stockholm offer clothes rental services  
for specific collections.
  – H
&M HOME started offering rental for 
occasions and celebrations. Rent a Christmas offered customers the chance to loan festive decorations in 5 markets.
  – W
eekday and & Other Stories items are 
available on Gemme Collective  in Sweden.
P.42  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Maximising product life & scaling circular business models
Progress: collect
—  Our post-consumer, in-store garment 
collecting initiative was disrupted for the whole year due to Covid-19. We gathered 15,944 tonnes of material (18,800 tonnes in 2020). The initiative collects post-consumer garments and home textiles for reuse and recycling, making it easier for consumers to recycle and demonstrating that these resources have value. We work with I:CO to collect and sort garments, with 50-60% sorted for re-wear and reuse and 35-45% recycled to become products for other industries or made into new fibres. We continued collaborating with partners to make use of the remaining 3-7% that, as a last resort, had to be disposed of another way, prioritising incineration for energy recovery and never sending textiles to landfill. For  
example, we’re collaborating with Really  to  
create new garment collecting boxes from recycled textiles. Read more about our efforts increase the share of recycled textiles  we use,  
and scale recycling technologies .
—  ARKET's Patchwork Denim collection used vintage denim collected via the brand's recycling programme to create unique, circular pieces.
—  We showcased new recycling technologies.  
For example, H&M ran events for customers in 
Sweden featuring its in-store Looop recycling machine. Looop was awarded the Design Grand Prix during the 2021 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. Read more about our investments in new recycled materials and  
technologies .Learnings
—  It is becoming increasingly clear that for circular business models to help us reach our climate goals, there needs to be significant  
scaling and substitution of (rather than addition  
to) existing business models, as outlined in a  
2021 EMF report . 
—  Taking the first steps from resell pilots  
towards a scalable solution has taught us a lot about some of the hurdles to overcome if we  
want to make resell a sustainable option at scale. We need to build solutions that can help close the gap between customer intentions and actions to shop more sustainably. The current lack of access to transparent, brand-agnostic product information makes it difficult to provide customers with consistent information.
—  Weekday’s made-to-measure jeans pilot 
saw fewer returns than for our regular, non-customised jeans, helping us step towards  
closer matching of production with sales. Now that we have piloted the made-to-measure jeans on demand production model, we will explore how to scale the offering.Garment collecting initiative
2019 2020 2021
Textiles collected in H&M Group stores 29,005 tonnes 18,800 tonnes115,944 tonnes1
1)   O ur garment collecting initiative was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic for part of the year in 2020 and for the full year in 2021.
—  Our multi-brand online shop Itsapark has developed extensive knowledge of the sustainably driven fashion, beauty and lifestyle segment. To better leverage this expertise, Itsapark has been integrated into H&M brand and closed its customer facing operations. This will allow learnings from Itsapark to be implemented on a larger scale, increasing their impact.
Future focus
—  We are developing internal performance indicators to manage expansion of circular business models at H&M Group. We plan to continue scaling resell, care, repair and other circular access models.
—  As we shift towards a more circular business 
model, we are mindful of what this will mean for the future of employment  in the fashion industry.
Read more about our work with circular   
business models . 
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.43  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002CIRCULAR PRODUCTS, SUPPL Y CHAIN & CUSTOMER JOURNEY: 
Stores, distribution centres  
& offices 
—  Use only recycled or other more sustainably  
sourced materials by 2030, with preference  
for recycled content
—  Reuse, repair or recycle all store interiors   
by 2030
We collaborate with our business partners and 
building owners to achieve these goals. As a minimum we require interior and construction business partners to sign our Sustainability  
Commitment  and comply with the H&M Group  
Chemical Restrictions . All suppliers that produce 
interiors and other materials for our stores participate in our supply chain management  
programme. 
We have tailored versions of our supplier 
Sustainability Commitment  for construction 
suppliers and landlords.
Progress: reducing emissions
—  Together with ARUP, we are assessing the lifecycle impacts and life expectancy of store formats. We also aim to establish a carbon emission baseline (average kg CO 2e per m2) for 
H&M Group stores. These activities should give a clear picture of the climate impact and priority action areas for our stores. 
Progress: product design
—  We launched our Circular Design Guideline  
for the built environment at the end of 2021  
to help us achieve our goal to design for reusability, repairability or recyclability. The aim is to use the same methodology as for our commercial products circular design guide and tool, Circulator .
Progress: recycled & other more 
sustainably sourced materials
—  Together with Biomason , we developed an 
alternative to traditional floor tiles currently used 
in our stores, which will significantly reduce their climate impact. Lab tests to evaluate installation and wear and tear properties are scheduled for late 2021, with the hope to conduct in-store tests in 2022.  
—  As part of our work to increase use of recycled 
materials, we started using wood fibre-based boards from our supplier Unilin  containing 80% 
recycled content. 
—  We started new partnerships to explore more 
sustainable concrete as a potential lower-carbon building material.—  We worked with Really  to recycle textiles into 
construction materials.
Progress: reuse, repair, 
recycling
—  We created an online sharing tool to ensure 
we reuse surplus store interiors. Currently, 31% of interior materials shared via the tool are reused.
—  We launched our new Reuse & Recycling 
Guideline and Store Consolidation Guidelines.
—  92% of waste handled in H&M Group 
distribution centres was recycled or reused  
(92% in 2020).
Learnings
—  As our e-commerce business grows, we will continue consolidating the number of stores. As well as reusing the interiors, we need to find ways to recycle them when they are not fit for reuse.
Future focus
—  We will continue to increase use of recycled and more sustainably sourced materials in the buildings where we operate.
—  We will embed our Circular Design  
Guideline across the business and continue using 
lifecycle analysis to guide our efforts to reduce carbon emissions.Although our stores, offices and most distribution centres are owned by others, we work to ensure they are built, maintained and furnished in a circular way.
Our Circular Built Environment Strategy,  
created in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur  
Foundation  and its knowledge partner ARUP , 
prioritises resource optimisation, helping to 
reduce our carbon footprint. The strategy guides us to use circular principles — reduce, reuse, repair and recycle — when we furnish stores, and to use only recycled or more sustainably sourced materials. We plan to extend this to distribution centres and offices.
Our goals for the buildings where we operate  
and the products and materials we use within 
them are:
—  Reduce CO
2e emissions from our operations  
by 56% by 2030 — as part of our wider 
emissions goal
—  Design 100% of store interiors to be 
reusable, repairable or recyclable, starting from 2021
P.4 4  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021CIRCULAR PRODUCTS, SUPPL Y CHAIN & CUSTOMER JOURNEY: 
Packaging 
—  Reuse or recycle 100% of packaging waste 
from our own sites by 2025
Read about our detailed plastic packaging goals .
We’re signed up to the Global Commitment of 
the New Plastics Economy Initiative . As a Fashion  
Pact Signatory , we’ve committed to reduce ocean 
pollution. And as part of Canopy’s Pack4Good , we 
look to use responsible paper and alternatives to paper packaging.
Progress
—  Our total packaging volume increased by  
4% compared to last year. This is primarily due to an increase in online sales, which require more packaging per product than in-store sales, as well as the shift from plastic packaging to paper packaging and the rebound in sales following the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. Despite this increase, our plastic packaging volume decreased by 5% compared to 2020.
—  Hangers . In 2021, 60% of hangers were 
recycled and 18% were reused. We plan to reuse 
or recycle all hangers by 2022, while increasing the share that is reused.To prevent damage and waste, our products must be protected as they travel between our suppliers, distribution centres, stores and customers. We are committed to reduce the impact of our packaging as part of our focus on reducing resource use. Guided by our Circular Packaging Strategy , we 
focus on addressing priority areas first where greatest impact can be achieved — like reducing unnecessary and problematic packaging, including plastic packaging.
Our Circular Product Development Guideline, 
Material Guideline and Restricted Substances List for Packaging support our teams to work towards our packaging goals:
—  Reduce packaging across our value chain 
25% by 2025 (2018 baseline), including an absolute reduction in plastic packaging of  
25% by 2025 (2018 baseline)
—  Design 100% of packaging to be reusable 
and/or recyclable by 2025
—  Make 100% of packaging from recycled  
or other more sustainably sourced materials by  
2030, with a preference for post-consumer 
recycled materials
P.45  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS 2021CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
FAIR & EQUALPackaging
Packaging data1,2
2019 2020 2021 GOAL
Reduce packaging across  
the value chain:
-25% by 2025  
(2018 baseline3)–   A ll packaging (reduction  
from 2018 baseline)N/A –14% –10.3%
–   Plas tic packaging (reduction 
from 2018 baseline)N/A -24% -27.8 %
Design packaging to be  
reusable or recyclable:4 100% by 2025
–   Plas tic packaging that is 
reusable or recyclableN/A 6% 47%
Make packaging from recycled or other more  sustainably sourced  material, within which:
N/A 89% 68%5 100% by 2030
–   P ackaging from  
recycled materialN/A50%  
(25% post-
consumer;  
25% pre-  
consumer)42% 
(29% post-
consumer;  
13% pre-  
consumer)
–   Plas tic packaging from  
recycled material65%  
(38% post- 
consumer;  
27% pre-  
consumer)76%  
(12% post-
consumer;  
64% pre-  
consumer43% 
 (42% post-
consumer; 
1% pre-
consumer)
–   W ood in packaging  
from Forest Stewardship  Council certified sources 78% of paper97% certified  
paper and  
cardboard 78% certified  
paper and  
cardboard5
1)   W e’re establishing the data systems needed to report progress on reusing  
or recycling all packaging waste from our own sites, and to measure the  
total volume of our packaging that is reusable or recyclable.
2)
  S
ome packaging within our value chain remains unreported due to a lack of 
comparable data, particularly for packaging purchased locally at distribution 
centres and transport packaging for store interiors. We are working to  
map all packaging across our network to continue improving our data collection processes.3) 
   I n 2020, we revised our 2018 baseline data for packaging due to improvements  
in data quality.
4)
  W
e will begin tracking this data once we have completed development of  
a digital design tool for circular packaging which will enable us to do so.
5)
  W
e are updating our packaging data collection systems to improve traceability 
of certified Forest Stewardship Council and recycled materials. This has led to a reduction in the reported share of recycled or other more sustainably sourced materials in our packaging for this year.—  Polybags . We continued exploring more 
sustainable alternatives for transport polybags. 
There are multiple solutions to suit different demands and we are investigating how to apply them in a scalable way, including elimination, size optimisation, substituting materials and switching to a circular system. In 2021, we removed the garment polybags for our portfolio brands in several markets to improve the recycling rate by keeping them under our own control.
—  E-commerce packaging . We continued rolling 
out our new FSC-certified paper e-commerce 
packaging system with H&M, scheduled for completion in 2022. We also researched how to apply a scalable circular business model for online packaging.
—  Materials . With Canopy, we continued to 
drive innovation on paper packaging. We are 
investigating how to increase our share of post-consumer recycled paper and exploring next-generation paper products made from alternatives to wood and from recycled content, such as using agriculture waste to make paper in India.Learnings
—  Implementing a reusable approach for transport hangers is taking longer than expected due to challenges coordinating all our suppliers, stores and distribution centres globally. We are learning as we go, working across our markets to implement this system as soon possible. 
—  Finding a way to transition from plastic to  
post-consumer recycled paper packaging  
without compromising on protecting our  
products has been a challenge. Together with 
Canopy and their Pack4Good initiative, we plan to test ways to increase the durability of post-consumer recycled paper as one potential solution to this issue.
Future focus
—  We will continue prioritising eliminating all unnecessary and problematic packaging, and shifting to easily recyclable packaging. We’ll  
work with partners to increase the share of  
high quality post-consumer recycled material,  
focusing on paper. For the plastic we do use,  
we will develop a roadmap with brands and functions to phase out problematic polymers.
—  We will complete development of a digital  
design tool for circular packaging. 
P.46  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair & Equal
Our approach to being Fair & Equal  ........... 48
R
especting & advancing human rights  ........ 49
I
nclusion & diversity 
 ........................... 51
F
air jobs in our own operations  ............... 55
F
air jobs in our production supply chain  ....... 57
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.47  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002Our approach to being  
Fair & Equal
Our business is characterised by a fundamental 
respect for the individual. Everyone has the right to be treated equally with respect and dignity, feel empowered to develop and grow, and be who they want to be.
We constantly learn from the people and 
communities around us as we work to accelerate equality for all those impacted by our business and value chain — our customers and colleagues, our suppliers and their employees, and the communities where we operate.
Our shared values  define who we are, what we 
stand for and how we act. They support our 
efforts to be a fair and equal company.
Our commitment to respect and advance human 
rights  is the foundation of our approach. These 
includes labour rights, inclusion and diversity, 
and community rights such as access to clean water and a healthy environment. Increasingly, the climate crisis and environmental degradation are threatening these basic rights and freedoms, and exacerbating inequities.
Informed by our commitment to human rights and 
our identified salient human rights issues , we commit to focus our efforts to be a fair and  
equal company on: 
—  Fair jobs for all . We support decent, 
meaningful jobs with fair compensation and 
benefits in safe, secure workplaces free from discrimination, where everyone has the right to freedom of association. Our standards are informed by the International Labour Organization’s definition of decent work  and 
relevant conventions and recommendations.
—  Inclusion & diversity . We work to enable 
inclusive, diverse and equitable workplaces.  
We promote diversity and equality through 
products and communication, and advance inclusion in our communities.
In 2021, we progressed work in our production 
supply chain to drive fair and competitive wage increases, and we continued to strengthen our human rights due diligence processes across our value chain. 
In our 2021 stakeholder survey , 44% of 
respondents rate our work on fair jobs as good 
or very good and 50% rate our work on inclusion and diversity as good or very good. Our overall employee engagement score in our People Engagement Pulses survey was 76 out of 100 (75 in 2020). In our annual supplier survey, which suppliers respond to anonymously, 98% of our suppliers said they consider H&M Group to be  
a fair business partner (96% in 2020).
See our Fair & Equal KPIs  from 2021. 
H&M Foundation 
In 2021, the H&M Foundation:—  Partnered with Social Alpha to  
launch Techtonic — Innovations in Waste 
Management  in India — a national challenge 
to identify local, disruptive innovations 
that improve waste management and the livelihoods of waste pickers. 
—  Continued to support female garment  
workers in Bangladesh , launching two 
pilot projects. The first equips workers 
with skills for higher-level managerial and machine-operator roles. The second identifies solutions for improving global competitiveness of the Bangladesh readymade garment sector and enhancing the livelihoods of women garment workers.
—  Became a founding partner and investor 
in the Resilience Fund for Women in  
Global Value Chains  — uniting investors 
with women-led organisations and funds to create systemic change that improves opportunities for women in a way that best fits their communities.
P.48  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Respecting & advancing  
human rights
Our commitment to respect and advance 
internationally recognised human rights is a foundation for everything we do. 
We base our approach on the UN Guiding  
Principles on Business and Human Rights  and 
communicate our commitment via our Human  
Rights Policy . Ten years on from the launch of the 
UN Guiding Principles, our focus on upholding the 
rights of colleagues, workers in our supply chain, customers and communities remains constant. We adjust our work in response to internal and external trends and events, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, environmental and political instability and shifts in working practices and digitalisation.
Our human rights due diligence is risk-based  
and applies across our operations, supply chains 
and communities. We regularly review our actual or potential human rights risk and focus on  
priority risks: our salient human rights issues .  
We report on progress and data in relevant sections of this report — including water ,  
fair jobs in our operations  and supply chain ,  
and inclusion & diversity . We pay special  
attention to vulnerable groups such as children  
and migrant workers . Our supply chain   
management  programme is an important mechanism for assessing and addressing  
human rights issues in our manufacturing  
supply chains. 
Read more about our approach to human rights  
and due diligence .
We work with the Ethical Trading Initiative  and 
Shift  to progress our approach to human rights. 
We also partner with local human rights focused 
organisations to gain a deeper understanding  
of specific contexts and risks — for example Better Work , the International Organization for 
Migration , the Mekong Club  and the Myanmar  
Centre for Responsible Business .
Progress
—  We strengthened integration of human rights governance and due diligence in our business by:
  – D
eveloping a human rights network  
across our operational and supply chain functions and activities. Participants share learnings, develop joint action plans and  
adjust human rights due diligence activities relevant to their operational context and to drive integration within their function.  – L aunching our Speak Up grievance channel 
for colleagues and business partners as part of our new Ethics Portal.
  – F
ine-tuning and expanding our yearly 
review of human rights risks across regions and functions, to inform our regular review of salient issues.
—  We delivered human rights trainings across  
our functions:
  – T
ogether with Shift, we delivered deep-  
dive trainings with colleagues responsible  
for ongoing human rights due diligence, including sessions on taking action, and remedy and grievance.
  – O
ur global Materials team received training 
on environmental and human rights due diligence and labour risks, to inform an ongoing risk review process related to our material strategies.
  – T
he International Organization for Migration  
provided training on forced labour to  
41 colleagues and 298 supplier factories,  
with a total of 517 participants.
  – K
ey colleagues in the H&M marketing and 
communication team participated in training on child rights led by UNICEF .
—  We stayed closely engaged with emerging mandatory due diligence legislation, for  
example the EU Sustainable Corporate  
Governance initiative .Learnings
—  Unprecedented situations in our own operations and supply chains this year, including war and civil unrest, underscored the importance of enhanced due diligence in conflict affected regions. There is often no simple or single answer for the most responsible course of action. We learnt the value of acting quickly to ensure the safety of and assist our colleagues, our suppliers and their workers. Regular engagement with key stakeholders, trade unions and employers was essential to take care of our business and the workers who make our products. —  We continued to learn about the limitations of corporate due diligence in solving issues that are political in nature. Stakeholder engagement, collaboration and public affairs work are vital levers for tackling some of the more complex  
and structural issues.
Future focus
—  We will continue to deepen integration of due diligence across our business. Ensuring shared responsibility and continuing training, support and cross-functional collaboration are important aspects of this ongoing work. 
—  As regulation evolves we will review and 
update documentation of our work, and expand reporting.
P.49  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021A focus on child rights
This year we expanded our efforts to promote 
child rights within and beyond our supply chain
In the context of an increasingly digital world, we 
partnered with UNICEF to review our Responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI) framework from a child rights perspective. As a result, we developed AI for Children guidance. We also engaged with our marketing team on child rights, leading to an update of our Responsible Marketing Guidelines .
To spotlight the voices of children making the world a better place, H&M launched the Role  
Models  campaign, showing age is no barrier  
to changing the world. The campaign engaged approximately 34,000 children, as well as  
raising SEK 2 million for UNICEF through sales  
of t-shirts featuring inspirational quotes from  
the Role Models.
The UN declared 2021 International Year for the 
Elimination of Child Labour. We remain committed to uphold the Children’s Rights and Business  
Principles , which includes not accepting child 
labour in our supply chain. 
As in 2019 and 2020, we identified no cases of 
child labour in our tier 1 supply chain in 2021.  We updated our Child Labour Policy , including 
clarifying responsibilities for H&M Group and our business partners. We added reference to child labour and forced labour risks in our Responsible  
Raw Material Sourcing Policy . Also in 2021:
—  We analysed our key materials to identify gaps in existing strategies for parts of our supply chain where there is a heightened risk of child labour or forced labour.
—  On World Day Against Child Labour, we 
communicated with all colleagues to raise awareness of the issue of child labour by sharing our commitment and actions.
—  We continued our membership of the  
Centre for Children’s Rights and Business and 
joined other brands and retailers in committing  
to the Centre’s Joint Action Pledge  to eliminate 
child labour. We also ran a programme to support migrant workers with children in Mainland China — read more in Inclusion & Diversity .
As we work to become a circular business, we recognise the need for collaboration to ensure no child labour occurs within new recycling- and reuse-focused supply chains. We will continue to work to uphold child rights throughout our value chain, including through our own marketing and sales activities.Respecting & advancing human rights
P.50  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTFAIR & EQUALInclusion & diversity
Growing inequalities and unequal access to 
opportunities around the world, exacerbated by the global pandemic, emphasise the need for inclusive business. We’re committed to being part of the solution, working to promote and improve diversity, equity and inclusion for everyone in  
our value chain. By 2025, we aim for our workplaces to be more inclusive and diverse,  
to leverage our diversity for better business, and to use our business to advance inclusion  
in our communities . 
To achieve this, we focus on: 
—  Internal diversity & equality . Improve internal 
awareness of inclusion and unconscious bias, 
offer fair and equal employment opportunities and ensure diverse representation in teams and leadership. 
—  Promoting diversity & equality . Together with 
our brands, encourage inclusion and celebrate 
diversity and equality through products and communications. 
—  Inclusion . Advance inclusion of people in the 
societies we are part of through global and local 
initiatives.
—  Transparency . Clearly communicate our 
strategy and progress to create accountability, 
pushing us and others to do better. Our approach is informed by our Human Rights  
Policy , Sustainability Commitment , and other 
social policies .
Progress: internal diversity  
& equality
—  We set specific targets to improve diversity across our business. Brands and markets have set inclusion and diversity (I&D) commitments and action plans. We’re working to publicly disclose these plans and have extended the timeline — read more in Learnings .
—  We are developing and piloting a tool to  
help us better understand our inclusion, equity and diversity performance. Our goal is for the  
tool to help monitor our progress and inform future actions.
—  We’re building a network of internal I&D  
teams to engage colleagues and progress our 
2025 ambitions:
  – W
e formed a central I&D team of colleagues 
with experience across business functions. The team reports to the Head of People and Organisational Development and supports  
our brands and functions with expertise to further embed and extend our groupwide  
I&D actions.  
  – N ewly formed I&D councils, networks  
and advisory groups at our brands, functions  
and markets are activating a localised approach to I&D. Our production function formed I&D peer committees to progress its new diversity targets, and our United States (US) market is developing colleague resource groups (CRGs) — groups of colleagues reflecting a specific dimension of diversity  
(but open to anyone) who help shape I&D strategy locally. CRGs are also being piloted  
in other parts of our business.
  – O
ur new Colleague Peer Forum provides 
a Group-level platform for 40 colleagues from across our business to collaborate and feed back on I&D initiatives, including to the executive management team. 
—  We updated our approach to talent  
acquisition to ensure we assess candidates  
fairly, mitigate bias and promote diversity.  For example, we make sure that we advertise jobs  
on a range of platforms to target candidates  
with different perspectives.
—  We disclosed demographic data  for Group 
operations in the US.—  In 2021, 74% of H&M Group colleagues were 
female and 71% of management positions were held by female colleagues (2020: 74%, 71%). Our board of directors had a 55%:45% (female:male) gender split (67%:33% in 2020).
1
—  According to our annual H&M Group colleague survey, People Engagement Pulses, 83% of respondents agree with the statement “I am treated with respect and dignity”, and 74% with the statement “Diverse perspective are valued at H&M Group”.
1) Includes dir ectors elected by AGM as well as employee representatives.
P.51  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTInclusion & diversity
—  We continued internal trainings to build 
awareness and capacity on I&D issues (see table ). 
To complement trainings, we offered regular digital drop-ins where colleagues can  
ask questions to I&D experts. For example, they can seek guidance on creative decisions. Learnings are continuously integrated into  
our practices.
Progress: promote diversity  
& equality
—  Together with our brands, we joined a three-year partnership with the Unstereotype  
Alliance  (UA) — a platform seeking to eradicate 
harmful gender-based stereotypes in marketing, advertising and communications. To achieve this, we’ve set a plan focusing on assessing our marketing campaigns against UA’s scoring system, implementing trainings for creative roles and updating our creative processes. 
—  Our brands continued to promote diversity  
and equality: 
  – W
eekday began a long-term partnership with 
Civil Right Defenders  (CRD), donating 100% of 
the proceeds of its Studio Made collaborations 
to CRD during 2021. 
  – O
ur brands embraced real bodies. Monki 
continued its #nofilter underwear campaign featuring untouched photos of models.   –   Find out more about how we design 
clothes to fit all shapes and sizes.
—  We joined the steering committee and  
working group of the World Economic Forum Partnering for Racial Justice in Business   
initiative, aiming to build equitable workplaces with a focus on under-represented racial and ethnic identities.
—  Our International Women’s Day celebrations 
raised awareness and supported charities empowering women. H&M lent its social media platforms to UN Women, Monki launched an initiative called ‘Speak up, take space!’ as part of its partnership with PLAN International , while the 
& Other Stories #mygrandmamyicon Instagram campaign raised money for CARE .
—  We showed our support for the LGBTQIA+ community:
  – H
&M celebrated Pride by launching the 
Beyond the Rainbow campaign to support the United Nations Free & Equal campaign, 
a global initiative for LGBTQIA+ equality. This campaign is not linked to a collection or product — instead it provides a platform for voices and stories from the LGBTQIA+ community, including our colleagues, and encourages other to share their own stories. 
  – C
OS donated 100% of the proceeds of 
its Pride t-shirt capsule collection to local charity partners, including Kaleidoscope Trust  Inclusion & diversity training at H&M Group
COLLEAGUES PARTICIPATING IN ONE OR MORE TRAININGS 2020 2021
Layers I&D training, number of colleagues 4,152123,2532
–  % of colleagues in brands – 15%
–  % of colleagues in functions – 66%
–  % of colleagues in markets – 21%
Unconscious bias training3 13,713 56,618
Mindful cultural representation training 72 04
Legal and ethical aspects of product development training598 286
Total participants in one or more trainings since 2018 24,335 70,331 
Total participants in Layers since 2018 7,725 31,005 
1)  I ncludes six markets.
2) 
 I
ncludes all brands, functions and markets.
3) 
  D
ata is for colleagues who have accessed the training on our internal  
learning system.4)   T rainings were paused during 2021 while the programme was updated,  
with re-launch in a digital format planned for 2022. 
5) 
 T
his was called ‘Product and Print Policy training’ in the 2020 report.
P.52  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
Inclusion & diversity
— a human rights charity campaigning for 
LGBTQIA+ people.
  – M
onki’s Head Office was re-certified by 
RFSL , the Swedish Federation for Lesbian, Gay, 
Bisexual and Transgender Rights.
  – & Other Stories hosted a local artist takeover at 
its US stores, showcasing different perspectives and experiences from the LGBTQIA+ community through art, and donated to the United Nations Free & Equal campaign.  
Progress: inclusion
—  We continued our work with the TENT  
Partnership for Refugees:
  – A
s part of our commitment to responsible 
recruitment of 2,000 refugees within our Turkey supply chain by 2025, 710 refugees were employed in our supply chain. The Covid-19 pandemic meant we continued to focus on supporting those already employed to keep their jobs, rather than on scaling the programme. 
  – W
e joined the TENT initiative  providing 
professional mentoring for refugee women in Europe to help them gain employment. We have committed to mentor 50 women across Germany, the Netherlands and Italy over a three-year period. Collectively, the TENT Partnership aims to mentor 1,250 refugee women during the period. 
—  We continued a health and wellbeing project in Indonesia to empower women in our supply chain, in partnership with the United Nations Population  
Fund  and others. The project currently reaches 
more than 45,000 workers with trainings on topics including reproductive health, malnutrition and gender-based violence. We aim to enrol  
100% of production factories by 2025.
—  In Indonesia, we took part in a workplace 
inclusion project for workers with disabilities, together with Better Work and USAID Mitra Kunci .  
17 factories are currently enrolled, with the aim  
to cover 100% of our production factories  
by 2025.
—  H&M South Africa continued its partnership 
with Clothes to Good  (CTG), helping women —
particularly mothers of children with  
disabilities — out of poverty. CTG’s micro-business programme empowers 108 women to run successful clothing businesses in their communities. Women receive training on  
financial literacy and sales, as well as ongoing mentoring and support.Progress: supply chain inclusion 
& diversity 
— We launched our production supply chain 
Women’s Empowerment Strategy , developed in 
partnership with Plan International in 2020. Our 
ambitions and supporting goals and KPIs focus on health & safety, career and development, representation and equal pay. T o further understand the situation for women in our supply chain and ensure impactful actions to increase skill levels of women and decrease gender pay gaps, we conducted a survey with over 700 tier 1 suppliers in Bangladesh, Indonesia, Mainland China and T urkey.
— We reward suppliers for increasing their ratio 
of female supervisors through our supplier 
relationship management system. This year  
this incentivised our suppliers in Bangladesh  
to increase the ratio of female supervisors  
from 6% to 10%.
Number of workers in our tier 1 production supply chain in 2021
2020 FEMALE (%) 2021 FEMALE (%) 2021 FEMALE12021 MALE1
Workers 63% 63% 677 ,000 398,000
Supervisors 24% 28% 18,000 46,000
Worker representatives 59% 62% 6,000 4,000
1)   T o the nearest thousand.
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.53  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002— 10 supplier factories in India participated in  
a programme to prevent sexual harassment run  
by Swasti , reaching 13,500 workers.
— 27 H&M Group supplier factories are enrolled in 
the GEAR project in Bangladesh, which promotes 
female leadership. In 2021, 156 women workers were trained, contributing to 87 women workers being promoted.
— We continued to partner with the International 
Organization for Migration (IOM) on a country-
by-country approach to reducing risks of forced labour for migrant workers, as we work towards our goal of no recruitment fees in our supply chain by 2025. Our Migrant Workers Fair Recruitment and T reatment Guidelines and annual Modern Slavery Statement communicate our approach and progress. Also in 2021:
  – W
e ran internal and supplier training   
with IOM and continued a joint project to improve inclusion of migrant workers in  
our supply chain.
  – Our lo
gistics function mapped our last-mile 
delivery operations to better understand the use of labour brokers and presence of vulnerable groups including migrant workers. We also continued our engagement with the EU Responsible T rucking Platform.
  – W
e recognised the challenge of seafarers 
stuck on boats because of Covid-19 lockdowns. All our shipping partners are Neptune  Inclusion & diversity
Declaration signatories and we followed up regularly to assess progress, including crew changes and wellbeing.
  – In p
artnership with the Centre for Child 
Rights and Business , we ran a programme in  
8 supplier factories in Mainland China to support migrant workers with children. Forty onsite training sessions were delivered to more than 1,900 parent workers, benefiting approximately 2,900 children, and with a worker satisfaction rate of 90%.
Progress: transparency
—  We added transparency and  
communication as a focus area of our I&D strategy, highlighting the importance of  
sharing progress and staying accountable  
to our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders.
—  We are increasing our participation in  
indexes and benchmarks to broaden how we 
share our I&D performance. We were among 35 apparel companies ranked in the World Benchmarking  Alliance Gender Equality 
Benchmark  based on publicly available 
information and data. Our position in the benchmark (17) showed we need to publicly disclose more about the work we’re doing.  
We we will also make a submission to the  
2022 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index. Learnings
—  We underestimated the complexity of legal and ethical considerations related to collecting, aggregating and disclosing demographic and personal data. This has prolonged the timeline to disclose our action plans for our markets and brands. The development of our internal I&D Index, closer collaboration with our compliance experts and additional resources within our central I&D team will support this process internally going forward.
—  We need a consistent cross-sectoral approach 
to collecting I&D data. Implementing a compliant and harmonised global data collection approach is one of the objectives of the World Economic  
Forum Partnering for Racial Justice in Business ,  
of which we are a member. 
—  Improving the detail, quality and frequency  
of the information we share about our I&D  
work must be a top priority. Reporting on 
our strategy and performance helps us stay accountable, enabling us to track progress against our I&D strategy and meet stakeholders’ expectations. Future focus
—  Our customers, colleagues and investors increasingly expect us to share our progress related to inclusion, diversity and equity. As we continue to implement our I&D strategy, we aim  
to proactively communicate our performance  
and impact. 
—  We will continue developing local targets for  
all areas of our I&D strategy. This process is 
central to reaching our ambitions and improving our level of transparency.
— We are developing a KPI to incentivise suppliers 
to decrease the gender pay gap.— We have raised awareness of fair and inclusive 
recruitment of migrant workers among all  
relevant production markets and colleagues. 
We will now build a roadmap for strengthening recruitment systems in priority countries and with high-risk suppliers to reach our 2025 goal of no recruitment fees.
P.54  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our own operations
We aim to offer all H&M Group colleagues  
healthy, safe, fair and inclusive workplaces.  
We focus on:
—  Health, safety & wellbeing . We proactively 
identify health and safety risks and act to address 
these, so we can offer our colleagues safe workplaces that support their wellbeing. We raise awareness through trainings and local health and safety campaigns.
—  Professional & personal development .  
We want all our colleagues to be able to achieve 
their professional ambitions and make a difference. We encourage a culture of personal and professional development with regular feedback and an ongoing dialogue between managers, teams and team members. Individual development is also supported by our online training platform GROW and by everyone having access to our internal career site. Managers and their team members meet regularly to agree on career and development goals.
—  Employee relations & engagement .  
We encourage constructive workplace dialogue 
built on trust and respect, and support colleagues to share their experiences and ideas. We respect every employee’s right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and communicate this principle through our Global Labour Relations  
Principles  and Global Framework Agreement with Union Network International . All H&M Group 
workplaces have local grievance procedures, supported by our Global Grievance Policy . 
Colleagues can also use H&M Group’s Speak Up  
channel for whistleblowing and raising  
concerns. Our annual People Engagement  
Pulses survey enables colleagues to share views on how it is to work at H&M Group and give  
ideas for improvement. Based on the results, managers and their teams work together to set  
action plans.
—  Compensation & benefits . We are  
committed to providing our colleagues with  
fair, competitive compensation, guided by our  
Global Compensation and Benefits Policy .  
The H&M Incentive Program  (HIP) provides 
incremental investments in H&M Group 
shares to every part- and full-time H&M Group employee, regardless of position and country of employment.
1  All employees receive discounts  
in H&M Group stores worldwide. 
Progress:  health, safety  
& wellbeing
—  Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, we  
have provided practical support and advice  
to our teams. This included enhanced health and safety guidelines and routines, and personal protective equipment and training for those who could not work from home. 
—  We worked to support colleagues’ mental 
health and wellbeing. Different markets, brands and functions offered a range of initiatives — for example, a global 24-hour helpline, access to free mental health services and counselling, mental health surveys, webinars and workshops.
—  We began developing the “H&M Group at 
Work” model, exploring how we can meet the challenges and opportunities presented by new ways of working following the pandemic. —  65% of respondents to our People Engagement Pulses (PEP) survey agreed with the statement “I am able to successfully balance my work and personal life” (new question for 2021).
—  Our new global Meeting and Travel Policy 
is designed to support a healthy work-life balance, as well as reduce negative impacts on the environment, increase cost consciousness, optimise productivity and ensure compliance with travel regulations.
1)   Co-workers receive funds when they reach the age of 62, whether or not 
they still work for the company. In some markets, co-workers can receive the first part of their funds once they have worked for H&M Group for ten years. Payment regulations vary in some markets.
P.55  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our own operations
Progress: professional & 
personal development
—  We continued to run trainings remotely for 
colleagues working from home. The average training time per full time equivalent colleague was 6 hours.
1 
—  65% of respondents to our PEP survey agreed with the statement “I have good opportunities to learn and grow” (new question for 2021).
Progress: employee relations  
& engagement
—  To meet our customers’ expectations and navigate the digital shift, we continued our store portfolio consolidation, i.e. closing or downsizing relevant stores. Through this process, and through the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic, we continued to take a responsible, sensitive approach to supporting our colleagues. Our markets have taken a range of actions, including making managers and human resources available for regular phone calls, providing additional benefits or compensation to support transition and offering app-based training to develop  
new skills.
—  Our overall engagement score in our PEP 
survey was 76 out of 100 (75 in 2020).—  We investigated 19 incidents of potential colleague non-compliance with the Code of Ethics. These investigations led to 1 written warning and 5 terminations. Cases involving 5 colleagues remained open into 2022.
2
—  Our markets, brands and functions engaged with colleagues in a range of ways. For example, H&M launched the Circular and Climate Ideation Cup, offering colleagues the chance to share innovative ideas that contribute to our sustainability agenda.
—  80% of respondents to our PEP survey  
agreed with the statement “I feel empowered  
to take ownership about my work” (new question 
for 2021).
Progress: compensation  
& benefits
—  Working with an independent external supplier, we evaluated and compared jobs within our organisation and used this to develop our Generic Job Framework. We use the framework to evaluate which jobs roles are equal and equivalent and make accurate salary comparisons.
—  This year, SEK 224 million was allocated to the 
H&M Incentive Program.
—  65% of respondents to our PEP survey agreed 
with the statement “I feel satisfied with the recognition or praise I receive for my work”  
(new question for 2021).
Learnings
—  The trends towards flexible and digital working have been accelerated by the pandemic. To understand and learn from our colleagues post-Covid, we engaged with more than 2,000 of them to hear what they value. We concluded that our offices remain an important part of our unique culture and identity, and now hold a refreshed sense of purpose for collaboration, innovation  
and community. We have integrated these findings into our development our new  
"H&M Group at Work" model. 
Future focus
—  We are developing Global Employment Standards for H&M Group, based on international standards. This consistent approach will cover areas such as contracts, predictable work, sick leave, parental leave and employment protection.
—  It is important colleagues know which 
grievance systems are in place and feel  
confident to use them. We are reviewing and strengthening our Global Grievance Policy and our assessment and remedy processes.
—  We are exploring processes for engaging and 
involving our colleagues in company operations even more. This could, for example, include establishing employee committees.
—  To give all colleagues equal possibility to 
develop and grow, we are aiming to establish a learning experience platform (LXP) that provides easy access to personalised learning experiences and supports new ways of learning.
1)  Based on data from GROW only.
2)
 
See page 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points.
P.56  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production 
supply chain
The clothing and textiles supply chain is complex, 
with many shared suppliers. Our own tier 1 and  
2 production supply chain  contributes to the 
employment of around one and a half million people in 24 countries. 
It’s our responsibility to respect and work to 
advance the human rights of the people working for our suppliers and ensure they know their rights. We collaborate to improve industrywide working conditions, particularly with respect to wages and worker representation. We take a risk-based approach, prioritising locations where we identify potential issues.
We focus on:—  Health, safety & wellbeing . Everyone has  
the right to a safe workplace, and health and 
safety is an important topic in our supplier assessments. We are a signatory to the new International Accord for Health and Safety in the  
Textile and Garment Industry .
—  Social dialogue. We support the right to freedom of association and believe that strong industrial relations contribute to resilient, stable supply chains and decent work. We work with suppliers to increase democratically elected worker representation and to empower workers to know their rights. —  Compensation, benefits & social  
protection . We want to ensure all the workers  
in our supply chain are paid fairly1 and are  
covered by a strong social protection system. We work with suppliers to improve wage management systems and we partner with  
peers, experts and governments to improve wages at the industry and country level. Our  
Wage Strategy  guides our approach to  
improving workers’ livelihoods.
—  Supply chain inclusion & diversity . As most 
of the workers in our supply chain are women, 
we pay specific attention to gender equality, guided by our Women’s Empowerment Strategy. To protect the rights of vulnerable groups such as migrant workers, we identify and address risks  
of forced labour in our supply chain and commit to the goal of no recruitment fees in our supply chain by 2025 . Read more in Inclusion & Diversity . 
Collaboration is an important lever to help shape the industry we want and need in the future:
— Our Global Framework Agreement (GFA) with 
trade unions IndustriALL  and IF Metall  strengthens 
industrial relations and enables peaceful conflict resolution in our supply chain. National Monitoring Committees (NMCs)
2 oversee localised GFA 
implementation. 
— We’re members of the Industry Summit, a 
15-brand collaboration that shares common approaches to topics such as supplier audits,  
joint remediation and gender equality.
1)  R ead about how we define fair wages .
2) 
  N
MCs consist of H&M Group representatives working on the ground alongside 
national-level trade union representatives affiliated with IndustriALL.
Jobs in a circular fashion 
industry 
We completed the Keeping Workers in the 
Loop project with BSR  supported by the 
Laudes Foundation . The project explored 
how employment opportunities and job quality could be impacted by the shift to circular fashion, taking account of macro developments like automation and climate disruption. The final project report  recommends 
further research on the impact of a circular transition on workers and skill requirements, and embedding worker representation into future governance and strategy development. We will incorporate findings from this research into our Fair Jobs approach and work to ensure we put all people who work with our products at the centre of our strategy for a circular fashion industry.
We advocate for skills development 
plans to be in line with a circular, low carbon fashion industry. For example, we contribute through the Global Fashion Agenda to the EU Pact for Skills , a public-
private forum to support workers during the green and digital transitions.
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
P.57  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002Fair jobs in our production supply chain
— As an Action, Collaboration, Transformation  
(ACT) member and a signatory to its Memorandum  
of Understanding , we commit to ensuring our 
purchasing practices support suppliers’ ability to 
increase wages.
— We work with policy makers on progressive 
legislation and support the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Decent Work Agenda .
— As a Sustainable Apparel Coalition  board 
member, we work to progress factory-level data assessment and verification across our industry — see our supply chain data .
— We engage peers to discuss and address supply chain wage issues, for example through our participation in the UN Global Compact  
Platform for Living Wages  and Shift .
Progress: health, safety  
& wellbeing
— The transition of the Bangladesh Accord2 to 
a national regulatory body in 2020 led to global trade union-led discussions on the need for an international accord on textile industry safety. We played a leading role in negotiations towards the new International Accord for Health and Safety in 
the Textile and Garment Industry . This agreement 
between brands and trade unions commits us 
Supporting our suppliers 
through Covid-19
In 2021, we:
— Engaged in Call to Action activities to 
support worker access to emergency funds, wage subsidies, severance pay and identification documents needed for vaccine access. We continue to work through the Call to Action to secure funding from financial institutions and donors and develop market-level strategic plans, to support suppliers and their workers.
— Increased options for supplier payments, 
to maintain financial liquidity. It’s now possible for suppliers to receive payment approximately three days after sending an invoice to H&M Group. The supplier pays a financing cost to the bank to receive early payment, which is usually significantly lower than the cost of borrowing. 
— Maintained our commitment to good 
order flow, avoiding cancellations of existing orders and paying for any material liabilities
1 where necessary. We increased 
focus on compliance for issues like severance pay, wage payments, and health and safety.to upholding the health and safety work already undertaken in Bangladesh and to expand similar country-specific programmes across our supply chain.
— Through our supply chain management  
programme, we worked with supplier factories to 
ensure implementation of all standard operating procedures relating to Covid-19 measures. We encouraged suppliers to implement health guidelines from trusted sources — including local governments, the World Health Organization  and 
the ILO.
Progress: social dialogue
— 37% of our tier 1 supplier factories have trade union representation (32% in 2020) and 27% have collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) in place (18% in 2020).
— Our six National Monitoring Committees 
(NMCs) in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Myanmar and Turkey cover more than 1 million workers. Of the 46 issues raised with NMCs  
or other labour stakeholders in 2021 and carried over from 2020, 33 have been resolved ( see table ). 
The operations of the NMC in Myanmar have been affected by the current political situation in the country, while we maintain a close dialogue with global and local trade unions.
— We continued factory-level supplier 
evaluations and agreement of workplace dialogue improvement plans — assessing the functionality of the committees in place based on a tool we developed with Better Work. We also analysed grievance mechanisms in our supply chain. In Turkey, for example, we found 73% of all grievances in 2021 came from factories with workplace dialogue (WPD) programmes, which may mean that workers feel safe bringing forward concerns or that better systems are in place to capture grievances. Here, we also found there were on average 10% more female worker representatives in factories in our WPD programme compared to those not enrolled. 
— Our NMCs analysed supplier CBAs in 
Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia and Turkey. Outside Turkey, where CBAs are mandated by law, it was common for existing CBAs to lapse and not be renewed by the social partners, despite factory management and workers participating in capacity building programmes and trainings. 
— To understand how supply chain workers  
feel about their working conditions, we  
launched a workers’ voice survey in Bangladesh, 
Mainland China, India, Indonesia and Turkey.  
An independent third party gathered input from 10% of supplier factories in each country. We also launched a workers’ voice survey and worker dialogue tool in all factories in Myanmar. These surveys are an important verifier of the data reported by suppliers and help us understand if our capacity building programmes have the desired impact on working conditions.
2)   E stablished in 2013 to improve fire and building safety in the textile industry  
in Bangladesh.1)   T he fabric a supplier has purchased in the expectation of making  
an H&M Group product that has not yet been used.
P.58  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production supply chain
— Through our membership of ACT, we engaged 
with ongoing work to establish industrywide CBAs as a tool for enabling a sustainable rise in wages and benefits over time. Activities in 2021 included a study of options for CBAs from a legal perspective in Cambodia and Bangladesh, and developing tools to encourage better freedom of association across brands and suppliers in all ACT priority markets. In Myanmar a fast-track dispute resolution mechanism operated until October 2021, which was key to ensure workers’ grievances were handled in a timely manner despite the unrest.
— In 2021, H&M Group staff and IndustriALL 
affiliated trade union NMC members completed an eight-module course with the ILO to support knowledge and skills related to social dialogue.
Progress: compensation, 
benefits & social protection 
— Following an external review of our wages  
work in 2020, we’ve further developed our 
approach to increasing wages . We developed 
country-specific strategies that consider national contexts and legal settings, based on the six  
areas that drive impact on wages: wage management systems, productivity, social protection, statutory minimum wages, collective bargaining and industrial relations, alongside  
our own purchasing practices. We assess our  
The benefits of workplace 
dialogue
Workplace dialogue is a foundation 
for good working conditions , higher 
wages and women’s empowerment. Our wage strategy review last year showed workplace dialogue programmes and trade union representation positively impact wages.
1 And in Bangladesh, for 
example, we’ve found that factories with trade unions have higher levels of women engaged in grievances mechanisms. 
NMCs play a key role in enabling dialogue. 
For example, this year, the Garment Labor Union, a member of our India NMC, filed a complaint alleging workers had been subjected to too high performance targets, non-payment of lockout
2 and overtime 
wages, forced overtime and workplace harassment. After factory management initially refused to discuss the situation with the union, NMC representatives met with managers and were able to facilitate an amicable resolution.Issues brought to National Monitoring Committees in 2021 or carried over from 2020
3
UNRESOLVED   
FROM 2020R A I S E D  
IN 2021RESOLVED  
IN 2021UNRESOLVED  
 INTO 2022
Compensation & benefits,  
and severance payment1 25 20 6
Discrimination & harassment 1 9 7 3
Freedom of association  & collective bargaining agreements
2 6 4 4
Working hours 0 0 0 0
Forced labour and  modern slavery0 1 1 0
Social security 0 1 1 0
Total 4 42 33 13
1)   W e found a statistically significant global average increase on 
wages of 5.5%, where trade unions are present.
2) 
  D
enial of employment or stoppage of work during a labour dispute.
3) 
  T
his year, we have included the categories of forced labour and modern slavery and social security. These were not reported against last year, since there were  
no cases raised in either of these categories in 2020.
P.59  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production supply chain
1)   R easons for late payment include system errors and non-compliant invoices.
2) 
  T
he cost of a garment is divided into different costing blocks such as material, 
stitching, and labour cost. When we ring-fence the labour cost, we remove that part from the price negotiations so that the wages are never affected. 
3)   2 021 data includes active and approved manufacturing (tier 1) suppliers for 
all commercial product types, and covers the time period 1 January–30 June 2021. 2020 data covers the time period 1 January–31 December 2020. As our supplier base changes over time, average wage data is not presented as a like-for-like analysis. All average wage data reflects weighted averages, taking account of the size of each factory and the number of workers. Minimum wage data also reflects weighted averages, taking account of any differences in minimum wage between regions or states.
4) 
   C urrency conversions from Thomson Reuters Eikon based on annual average 
for 2021.
5)
 I
n April 2021, the minimum wage in India changed from USD 113 to USD 119.Average monthly wages (excluding overtime) at H&M Group supplier factories versus applicable 
minimum wages in key production markets3,4
COUNTRY  MINIMUM  
WAGES 2020  
(USD)G R O S S 
AV E R AG E 
WAGES 2020  
(USD)DIFFERENCE  
BETWEEN  
AV E R AG E 
AND MINIMUM  
WAGES 2020  
(USD)MINIMUM  
WAGES 2021  
(USD)G R O S S 
AV E R AG E 
WAGES 2021  
(USD)DIFFERENCE  
BETWEEN  
AV E R AG E 
AND MINIMUM  
WAGES 2021  
(USD)
Bangladesh 93 128 +38% 93 136 +46%
Cambodia 207 242 +17% 209 246 +18%
Mainland China 262 446 +70% 286 514 +80%
India 112 135 +21% 1165143 +23%
Indonesia 186 189 +2% 193 201 +4%
Myanmar 109 143 +31% 109 139 +27%
Turkey 378 451 +19% 457 576 +26%level of influence and impact on each of these areas, making factory-, country- and industry-level interventions to drive fair and competitive  
wage increases.
— With our suppliers, we completed an 
industrywide self-assessment on purchasing 
practices, run by ACT . We averaged more than  
4 out of 5 in most areas but performed lower on monitoring and evaluation of our purchasing practices — this means that suppliers are either  
not aware of our existing monitoring systems, or we need to strengthen and communicate what we do in this area. This will be a focus area for improving our purchasing practices in 2022.
— We made more than 99% of our supplier 
payments on time
1 and currently 68% of in scope 
orders are placed using the fact-based costing 
tool that enables us to ring-fence labour costs.2
— T o facilitate monitoring and review of supply 
chain wage payments, we continued expanding digital payments in Bangladesh to match levels  
in other production countries. Digital payments are now available at 91% of our manufacturing supplier factories in Bangladesh, and at 91% of  
tier 1 supplier factories across all countries  
(82% in 2020).
— Wages expert Raymond Robertson reviewed 
our role in social protection programmes. He 
concluded that, although governments are  
best suited to provide comprehensive social  
protection programmes, H&M Group can help build capacity and coalitions to increase awareness and support government action. We followed this up with an analysis of social protection legislation in each market, to  
identify where our advocacy efforts can be  
more impactful. 
— We focused on priority wage and social 
protection issues in specific countries. For 
example, in T urkey, we strengthened checks on social protection contributions paid to workers. We committed to a project led by ILO and GIZ  
in Bangladesh to advocate for an interim solution for the employment injury scheme.
— In our annual anonymised supplier survey, 
98% said they consider H&M Group to be a fair 
business partner (96% in 2020). From next year,  
we will integrate our supplier survey into the  
annual ACT purchasing practices assessment.  
We believe that this change will reduce workload for our suppliers, and provide a trusted platform for feedback.
— Should we need to stop working with a supplier 
factory, for example due to unresolvable non-
compliances, we align with the ACT Responsible Exit Policy to alleviate potential adverse impacts on workers.
 Find out more about fair jobs in our 
production supply chain.
P.60  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production supply chain
Learnings
— Our review of workplace dialogue systems has 
shown that factory management and workers 
need further support in case handling and dispute resolution, focused on improving problem solving skills and documentation of case handling. Stronger dialogue structures often correlate with greater participation by women — this is an area we need to explore further as we seek to empower women in our supply chain.
— While the pilot workers’ voice survey suggests 
only a small percentage of workers are worried 
about harassment and abuse, it also shows they do not speak up. In addition, many of the CBAs in our supply chain do not get renewed —  especially 
in Bangladesh and Cambodia. We will focus on training our staff on harassment and abuse, as well as take a targeted training approach with suppliers in countries where this risk is especially high. NMCs will create their annual plans for 2022 based on the learnings from the CBA benchmarking tool.
— Although our wage strategy review in 2020 
found that wage management systems (WMS) 
have increased average wages by up to 5%, the research also found that WMS appeared less effective in some locations — for example wages had not increased at our suppliers in India after they enrolled in WMS. We are partnering with researchers at the Accounting Frameworks Platform at Mistra Center for Sustainable Markets (Misum), Stockholm School of Economics, to understand why this was the case in India and how we can improve wages at the factory level.
Future focus
— We will train our teams and NMC members on 
gender-based violence and prevention of sexual harassment alongside reviewing our policies and guidelines to ensure we have the most effective procedures to support our suppliers on these issues. We will also add an addendum to our case handling routine — a process that we created together with IndustriALL and IF Metall — to include special procedures for cases that involve these topics.
— Building on our workplace dialogue 
programmes, we will develop targeted training 
to give worker representatives and management the skills they need to provide effective access to grievance remedies.
P.61  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
HIGHLIGHTS 2021
HOW WE REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTFAIR & EQUALFair jobs in our production supply chain
Detailed wage & worker data 
for 20211 
In 2021, we monitored the wages paid to workers 
by our suppliers’ factories. In this section, we present this data for the first nine months of the calendar year. Our commitment is to contribute to the full enforcement of statutory minimum wages and the wage levels agreed through collective bargaining, while at the same time supporting an increase of wages over time.
Because national responses to Covid-19 continued 
to impact wage trends differently, we continue to present data country by country. We also present available data about the number of workers employed in suppliers’ factories for the first nine months of the year, to show the ongoing impact  
of job disruptions caused by Covid-19 .
We share data for nine months rather
than the full year as we collect the data directly from suppliers and the most recent data is in the process of being verified at the time of reporting.Bangladesh
The number of workers and gross average wages increased compared to 2020. The increase in worker numbers was largely due to an increase in orders following the 2020 decline in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The uptick in orders also supported the increase 
in gross average wages paid during the first nine months of the year, compared to 2020. There was a brief period of factory closure in July as part of Government measures in response to Covid-19 , but this did not have a significant impact on worker wages. 
The next national minimum wage revision in 
Bangladesh is due in 2023. In 2021, the national standard 5% annual wage increment was implemented for workers who had been working for a supplier company for more than a year. 
1)   W orker data covers workers at manufacturing (tier 1) factories for all 
commercial product types that have shared complete worker datapoints  
with H&M Group for the equivalent months in 2021 and 2020. JAN FEB MAR
93
128 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT566560 569579 572 573590
571 565 572
550535
504578596 601
503 505
130 127 126144157
130173
127 127
20202021
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN BANGLADESH FOR THE 
FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN BANGLADESH FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020
P.62  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production supply chain
Mainland China
Compared to 2020, the situation for factories 
improved due to a lessening impact from Covid-19 . Gross average wages increased over the first nine months of the year, consistently above the minimum wage, and higher than in 2020. There was a dip in wage in February as a result of the annual Chinese New Y ear Holiday.Average worker numbers increased compared to 2020, with a slight decrease in February partially due to the Chinese New Y ear Holiday (a trend seen every year). Overall, total employment levels followed normal fluctuations in business patterns.
Cambodia
In response to Covid-19 , the Government imposed a city lockdown from mid-April to May 2021, impacting more than 40% of the H&M Group supply chain in Cambodia. Legally, employers were not required to pay workers during this period, although the Government encouraged factories to negotiate with workers and pay workers per their agreed amount. Despite these challenges, gross average wage was consistently above the minimum wage. 
As the industry recovered, the total number of 
workers grew to surpass the number of workers the previous year during the first nine months of 2021. This was also enabled by the high vaccination rate in Cambodia, which allowed stability of operation. 
The Government continued to implement a 
directive in which workers suspended due to supply chain issue received USD 30 per month from the employer and an additional USD 40 per month from the Government. The latter amount is not included in the data below, as transfers were made directly to workers and cannot be verified.
JAN FEB MAR
286
446 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT95124121128 127 127 127
8894 94 94 93115123 122 123
115 113
499
399529550 543559 567 578 571
JAN FEB MAR
209
242 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT37
292830 29 29 293634363433
28303130
28 28
247 245 250
229221282266 266 264
20202021
20202021
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN MAINLAND CHINA FOR 
THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN CAMBODIA FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN MAINLAND CHINA FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN CAMBODIA FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020
P.63  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production supply chain
Indonesia
Amidst the second wave of Covid-19 , the supply 
chain situation in Indonesia remained relatively stable. At the beginning of the year, 85% of facilities maintained full operation, with 15% in partial operation. The recovery process continued throughout the year, with full operation increasing to 97%. No factories in the H&M Group supply chain were fully closed in 2021.Gross average wages show a consistent and increased development for the first nine months of 2021. Overall, wages remained in line with local minimum wage regulations, which are formed at the regional level.
Compared to 2020, the number of employed 
workers increased significantly and remained consistent for the first nine months of the year. 
India
In response to Covid-19 , the Government introduced full lockdown in some Southern India states in May and June, with impact felt on gross average wages in May in particular. Most factories remained fully operational during the first nine months of the year, and average gross wages overall improved compared to 2020. 
However, in the state of Karnataka, wages did not 
increase as payments of the Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) — one of two components of minimum wage — was deferred by the state Government. The postponement of the VDA has since then been revoked by Karnataka High Court and manufacturers have agreed to pay VDA in arrears since April 2020 to January 2022, and pay at increased rates going forward.
Employment levels rebounded and remained 
relatively stable this year, following the decline  
in 2020. 
JAN FEB MAR
193
189 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT115150153 154 153 152156
115 113 116110 109 109153 154 154
111 110
200 200 200 200205 201 202 203 201
JAN FEB MAR
116
135 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT144161 162 163
149145 148
145
122139
114118126 124127
129128131
145 143148152
121149 151 153 150
20202021
20202021
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN INDONESIA FOR THE 
FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN INDIA FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN INDONESIA FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN INDIA FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020
P.64  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Fair jobs in our production supply chain
Turkey
Because of Covid-19 , approximately 85% of the 
factories in the H&M Group supply chain reported not working at full capacity between January and June. Workers in factories affected by Covid-19 benefited from Government subsidies, defined by each worker’s specific circumstances. By June, Government subsidies ended, and workers were paid fully by facilities even in cases where the factories were only partially operational. This had a slight negative effect on average wage levels during the first six months of the year. Overall, average gross wages for the first nine months of the year improved significantly compared to 2020. The year-on-year average wage for the first six months increased by  
more than 29%.
The total number of workers rose compared 
to 2020 and remained at a steady level during the first nine months of the year, despite the impact of Covid-19 . A moderate decrease was noted from July onward, following the end of the ban on dismissal of workers introduced by the Government during the peak period of Covid-19 .
Myanmar
The current situation in Myanmar remains uncertain and has, together with the third wave of Covid-19 , impacted factories and workers throughout the year. The worker attendance rate was significantly impacted at the beginning of the year as a direct consequence of the coup on 1 February 2021, with an accompanying negative effect on the gross average wage. Despite the impact on factory operations, wage levels remained above the minimum wage. Worker attendance recovered to some extent at the end of the year, but still stayed below the 2020 monthly average. 
20202021
20202021
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)
Minimum wage (2021)Average gross wage (2020)Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN TURKEY FOR THE FIRST 
NINE MONTHS OF 2021Gross average wages (USD)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN MYANMAR FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN TURKEY FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020Average number of workers  
(thousands)
AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN MYANMAR FOR THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2021, COMPARED TO 2020
JAN FEB MAR
109
143 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT51
49 48
44
383633514850475048
3338 394845
152
132127139146137 140150 153
JAN FEB MAR
457
451 APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEPT375152 52 52 52 53
37 37 37 37 374349 4948
43 44
554 545573594 600 588631603 601
P.65  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021As a global fashion company with an extensive 
supply chain, we have a responsibility to manage our supply chain impacts. We work with suppliers to move beyond compliance and towards continuously improving environmental and social performance. We have the most influence where our relationships are strongest. That’s why we focus on building long-term partnerships with suppliers who share our vision for a more sustainable industry.
Our Sustainability Commitment  outlines our 
expectations. This includes compliance with 
minimum requirements and international standards, and the aspiration to go beyond compliance for lasting impacts. We require all suppliers and business partners to sign and adhere to our Sustainability Commitment and  
our Code of Ethics .We monitor compliance and measure performance using our Sustainable Impact  
Partnership Programme  (SIPP). We use SIPP to 
support suppliers in raising environmental and social performance while encouraging them to take ownership of their sustainability agenda. SIPP includes:
—  Minimum requirements . Assessments for new 
suppliers and ongoing follow-up checks.—  Self-assessment and validation . Self-
assessment through tools including the  
Sustainable  Apparel Coalition ’s (SAC) Higg  
Facility Environmental Module (FEM) and Higg Facility Social and Labor Module (FSLM), verified by a third party.
—  Capacity building . Identifying priority areas 
and setting goals for improvements. Actioned 
through targeted support or wider topic-based programmes.
—  Grievance mechanisms and worker voice . 
Ensuring effective opportunities for workers to 
report concerns and have their voices heard.
—  Dealing with incidents . Recording and 
investigating potential incidents. Following up 
confirmed non-compliance cases with a letter  
of concern and corrective action plan.Supply chain management
How we describe suppliers 
Our supply chain has different levels or “tiers” that materials pass through during production. We group suppliers into tiers based on their role in production. Sometimes there is overlap between the tiers, where multiple supplier tiers can be involved in the same production stage. We work most closely with tier 1 and tier 2 suppliers:
—  Tier 1 . Includes manufacturing  
suppliers and subcontracted factories,  
who make products by cutting, sewing  
and processing. —  Tier 2 . Primarily suppliers who provide 
the fabrics, yarns and trims for products, 
including spinning, tanning, weaving and fabric dyeing and printing factories.
Read more about our supplier tiers .
P.66  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021CAPACITY BUILDING  
AND TRAINING
STRATEGIC PROGRAMMES, ROADMAPS AND COLLABORATIONSTAILORED ACTION 
PLANS
PUBLIC AFFAIRSMONITORING AND 
PERFORMANCE  
ASSESMENT
RISK AND IMPACT  
ASSESSMENTSSUPPLIER 
PERFORMANCE  
INDICATORS
FEM/FSLM indicators, 
Sustainability Index  
scores, non-compliances, 
grievances and incidents
ENABLING  
ENVIRONMENT
Country-level regulations, 
governance and industrial 
relationsCOUNTRY STRATEGIES
To address prioritised environmental and human rights risks and drive positive impactOur supply chain management ecosystemSupply chain management
Key Drives action Assessment tools
Country/communityFactory
Industry
P.67  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Progress: supplier relationships
—  We integrated sustainability KPIs into our 
Sustainability Index (SI) — the set of internal metrics we use to gauge overall supplier sustainability performance. We evaluate suppliers annually using industry tools and Group specific performance data on social and environmental impacts. High performing suppliers are rewarded with increased business opportunities, incentivising them to improve. Our SI is weighted equally between environmental and social performance:
 
  
– Environmental : GHG emissions, water use 
and chemicals.
 
  
– Social : wages, health and safety, inclusion 
and diversity, and industrial relations.
Aligning the SI more closely with our sustainability strategy has been an ongoing project, so we’re pleased to have reached this milestone. This will improve our ability to select suppliers who share our commitment to sustainability.
—  We continued adapting to Covid-19 
disruptions, completing a mix of onsite and  
offsite assessments and verifications for SIPP, Higg FEM and Higg FSLM, depending on local restrictions. We prioritised higher-risk suppliers.
—  We further integrated the most important 
aspects of supplier performance into the responsibilities of our business teams, strengthening the link between supplier performance and our purchasing decisions.
—  We participated in the ACT purchasing 
practices review. Read more in Fair Jobs in our  
Production Supply Chain.
Progress: industry tools & 
standards
—  We continued contributing to the development 
of the Social & Labor Convergence Program  
(SLCP) tool and common scoring system within FSLM. As an FSLM strategic council member, we’re working in partnership with brands, manufacturers and Better Work  to improve  
labour conditions in the apparel and footwear industries.
—  We’re participating in the SAC’s working 
group to integrate the Higg Facility Modules into the On-Product Transparency programme methodology. Read more about on-product  
transparency .
Progress: supplier assessment 
& performance
—  We transitioned to third-party verification for 
the Higg modules. Last year we set a goal for 100% verification of FEM and FSLM assessments Supply chain management
Higg Index results
TIER 1 TIER 2
SUPPLIER  
FACTORIESTHIRD-PARTY  
VERIFICATIONSSUPPLIER  
FACTORIESTHIRD-PARTY  
VERIFICATIONS
FEM 894 878 (98%) 337 329 (98%)
FSLM 883 850 (96%) 332 311 (94%)
FEM scores − participating tier 1 and 2 supplier factories
2019 2020 2021
Overall score (out of 100)1 47 52 57
Based on the combined average for:
Energy 75 82 87
Water use 62 73 76
Emissions 52 59 70
Wastewater 51 59 67
Waste management 31 34 37
Air emissions 30 29 29
Chemicals 27 29 32
1)   A verage of all active, approved tier 1 and tier 2 factories that have either a verified score or a self-
reported score. Scores are based on the previous year’s data, e.g. the 2021 overall score is based on 
2020 data.
P.68  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Supply chain management
Letters of concern issued to suppliers for non-compliance with minimum requirements2
ISSUE LETTER OF CONCERN TOPIC/S 2018 2019 2020 20213,4
Health & safetyLegal licences, emergency 
planning, fire safety26 18 3 2
Child labour Child labour 2 0 0 0
Fair living wageCompensation,  minimum wage,  overtime compensation
39 63 4 2
Freedom of association  & collective bargaining agreements Worker involvement  & communication
2 7 2 2
Social security, forced  labour, modern slaveryRecruitment & hiring
8 8 3 1
Discrimination &  harassmentWorker treatment  & development
5 2 0 1
Access to water Water use, waste water 7 7 4 7
Environmental Energy, chemicals 6 4 1 4
OtherUse of undeclared units, transparency33 24 11 19
2)   T ier 1 supplier factories.
3) 
  I
n 2021 we began extracting minimum requirements non-compliance data from 
industry tools where the majority of cases were verified on-site by a third party. This has resulted in significantly lower minimum requirements non-compliance cases, reiterating the importance of alternative due diligence approaches, including workplace dialogue and effective grievance channels for  
workers to raise issues.
4) 
  F
igures based on 2021 data up to end of Q3.
1)  S ee page 72 for an assurance statement relating to these data points.by October 2021, but this has been impacted by 
Covid-19 preventing verification in most countries. See table  for verification results.
—  100% of tier 1 supplier factories implemented SIPP. We reached our goal of 100% of tier 2 dyeing and printing factories implementing SIPP.
—  We continued to enrol non-commercial goods 
(NCG) suppliers in SIPP. 83% of NCG suppliers and 79% of their factories implemented SIPP.
—  Our FEM score across participating supplier 
factories was 57 out of 100. We’re working with SLCP to develop an industry scoring tool for FSLM, which we’ll use when it’s ready.
—  225 suppliers reported minimum requirement 
non-compliances across tier 1 (201) and 2 (24) suppliers, leading to:
 
  
– 111 minimum requirement non-compliance 
cases — 72 for social, 11 for environmental and 28 for business practice issues. 
 
  
– 38 letters of concern issued as part of  
our process to resolve human rights and environmental issues (see table opposite).
 
  
– 0 terminations of business relationships with 
suppliers due to minimum requirement non-compliance issues.
—  We investigated and closed 5 incidents of potential non-compliance with the Code of Ethics by business partners. Investigations led to 0 terminations and 2 written warnings. Cases concerning 2 business partners remained open into 2022.
1
Learnings
—  The Covid-19 pandemic has led us to re-examine our role in supporting suppliers through periods of challenge and increasing supply chain resilience, to protect the most vulnerable people in our value chain. We’ve  
had to focus on fundamental supply chain management issues like protecting jobs and wages. At the same time, we’ve kept driving progress by developing industry standards  
and advocating for policies that enable  
suppliers to perform better. 
Future focus
—  With the help of our Materials team and Business Tech function, we’ll extend our supply chain management approach beyond tier 2.  
This will enable us to better trace the impacts  
of our products and extend our influence  
through the supply chain.
—  We will continue to align our strategy with 
industry tools like Higg FEM and FSLM to drive impacts through industry collaboration.
P.69  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
HOW WE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Scope
H&M Group produces an annual sustainability 
performance report that covers sustainability strategy, policies, goals, programmes and performance data for the global group operations of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (also called H&M Group in this report). Our 2021 reporting includes seven H&M Group brands (H&M, COS, Weekday, Monki, H&M HOME, & Other Stories, ARKET and Afound), as well as wholly or partially owned subsidiaries during the financial year from December 1, 2020 to November 30, 2021, unless stated otherwise. See our Annual and  
Sustainability Report 2021  for a full list of entities.
Our sustainability reporting includes our Annual 
and Sustainability Report , which contains 
our Statutory Sustainability Report , as well 
as our Corporate Governance report  and our 
Financial reports. This is complemented by this Sustainability Disclosure , reporting indexes and 
supporting web content. Read more about how we report  and our material issues , including how 
we identify and update them, and the boundaries of each issue.How we report 
Frameworks
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) . This report is 
prepared in accordance with the revised Universal  
GRI Standards . We will use the new sector 
standard as soon as it is available. Download our GRI index .
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) . Our risk assessment follows 
the TCFD recommendations. Read more in our Annual and Sustainability Report .
UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework . 
We were one of the first companies to report on human rights in line with the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework in 2015. Our regular review of salient human rights issues  complements our 
materiality assessment. Find more detail of our reporting approach .
UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate . 
We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and named as a UN Global Compact LEAD for our ongoing commitment to its Ten Principles for responsible business. Our annual sustainability reporting serves as our Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate.
Our emissions data 
We continue to improve how we calculate and compare our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions data. Read more about how we calculate our emissions .
P.70  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE REPORT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021UN Sustainable  
Development Goals 
The United Nations Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs)  and the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development guide our collaborative 
mindset to addressing social, environmental and economic challenges. We are part of the  
Business Call to Action , which aims to  
accelerate progress towards these goals.  We always aim to minimise our negative impact and maximise positive contribution across the areas covered by the SDGs, with a focus on  
our most material issues. Here, we present  
how we contribute to the SDGs — directly  
(by delivering on our strategy), indirectly and through partnerships. 
GOALDIRECT INFLUENCE 
THROUGH OUR STRATEGYINDIRECT INFLUENCE THROUGH OUR STRATEGYCONTRIBUTION THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS
  1 No poverty Fair & Equal •
  2 Zero hunger • •
  3 Good health & well-being •
  4 Quality education •
  5 Gender equality Fair & Equal •GOALDIRECT INFLUENCE THROUGH OUR STRATEGYINDIRECT INFLUENCE THROUGH OUR STRATEGYCONTRIBUTION THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS
  6 Clean water & sanitationCircular & Climate 
Positive • •
  7 Affordable & clean energyCircular & Climate Positive•
  8 Decent work & economic growth Fair & Equal •
  9 Industry, innovation and infrastructureLeading the Change, Circular & Climate Positive•
  10 Reduced inequalities Fair & Equal •
  11 Sustainable cities & communities •
  12 Responsible consumption & productionLeading the Change, Circular & Climate Positive•
  13 Climate actionCircular & Climate Positive•
  14 Life below waterCircular & Climate Positive• •
  15 Life on landCircular & Climate Positive• •
  16 Peace, justice and strong institutions Fair & Equal • •
  17 Partnerships for the goalsLeading the Change, Circular & Climate Positive, Fair & Equal• •Our relationship with the UN SDGs
P.71  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE REPORT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Auditor’s report 
Auditor’s Assurance Report on specified 
sustainability information in H & M Group’s Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report
To H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, corporate identity 
number 556042-7220
Introduction
We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and Executive Management of H&M Hennes &Mauritz AB (H&M Group) to perform a limited assurance engagement on selected information, presented in the H&M Group’s ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’, ‘Material Issues 2021’, ‘Materiality Matrix 2021’ and ‘Stakeholder Engagement 2021’ with regards to the below disclosures referred to in the GRI index that can be found in the ‘GRI content index 2021’. Reporting principles can be found in ‘How we Report 2021’. 
— Approach to stakeholder engagement 
(Disclosure 2-29), reported in ‘Stakeholder Engagement 2021’, ‘Material Issues 2021’ and on pages 10-11 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’. 
— Process to determine material topics and list of material topics (Disclosures 3.1, 3.2), reported 
in ‘Material Issues 2021’, ‘Materiality Matrix 2021’, ‘How we report 2021’ and on pages 49 and 70-71 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’. 
— Energy: 
Energy consumption within the organization and 
percentage of renewable energy (Disclosure 302-1), page 23 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report. Energy intensity (Disclosure 302-3), page 23 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’. 
— Emissions:  
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (Disclosure 305-1), 
page 22 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (Disclosure 305-2), page 22 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, limited to transportation and garment production (part of Disclosure 305-3), page 22 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’.
— Materials: 
Materials used by weight or volume, limited to 
cotton and top three recycled materials (part of Disclosure 301-1), page 31-32 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’. — Anti-corruption: 
Confirmed incidents of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics and actions taken (Disclosure 205-3), reported on page 56 in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’.
Responsibilities of the  
Board of Directors and the 
Executive Management for  
the Sustainability Report
The Board of Directors and the Executive 
Management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 70 in the Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.   Responsibilities of the auditor 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the above specified disclosures in the specified documents based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. The selection of disclosures to be reviewed has been made by the management of H&M Group. Our engagement is limited to the above specified information, which does not include web-links , and is limited 
to historical information presented and does therefore not cover future-oriented information.
We conducted our limited assurance  
engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 
Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information .  
A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden.
P.72  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE REPORT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Auditor ’s report
The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard 
on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent of H&M Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
The procedures performed consequently do 
not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Accordingly, the conclusion of the procedures 
performed do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion.
Our procedures are based on the criteria defined 
by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the above specified disclosures presented in the ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’.We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below.
Conclusion
Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information regarding the above specified disclosures in H&M Group’s ‘Sustainability Disclosure 2021 report’, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the  
criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. 
Stockholm 25 March 2022
Deloitte AB
Didrik Roos
  
A
uthorized Public Accountant
Lennart Nordqvist   
E
xpert Member of FAR
P.73  T RANSPARENT REPORTING SINCE 2002
HOW WE REPORT
HOW WE LEAD THE CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
CIRCULAR & CLIMATE POSITIVE
FAIR & EQUAL
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
HIGHLIGHTS 2021Sustainability Disclosure 2021
If you have questions, need help locating 
information, or want to find the latest on our sustainability work including strategy, goals, standards and policies, please contact  
Laura.Cars@hm.com . 
We appreciate your feedback.
Thank you