Sustainability Report 2009STYLE &
SUBSTANCE
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH page 2
SUPPLY CHAIN page 14ENVIRONMENT page 31PRODUCTS page 51EMPLOYEES page 58COMMUNITIES page 65Q & As page 73
Appendix 1 Performance
Appendix 2 GRI Content IndexCONTENTS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
AT H&M, STYLE IS WHAT YOU GET . BUT THAT IS NOT THE  
END OF THE STORY . WE HAVE WIDER RESPONSIBILITIES – 
TO PEOPLE AND TO THE PLANET . BEHIND THE SCENES, WE 
ARE WORKING HARD TO MAKE YOUR STYLE RESPONSIBLE,  
IN W AYS THAT ARE IN TUNE WITH THE NEEDS OF THE 
WORLD AROUND US. BECAUSE GOOD STYLE ALSO  
NEEDS SUBSTANCE.
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 01STYLE AND 
SUBSTANCEStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
Welcome to our 2009 sustainability report! 
H&M strives to be a sustainable business – financially, socially 
and environmentally. If we are to continue being a successful 
company, we believe that integrating sustainable thinking 
into everything that we do is absolutely necessary.
Given the financial downturn, this past year has been 
challenging for most companies – H&M is no exception. But 
you should know that this has not led us to compromise our 
sustainability agenda. 
We are moving towards sustainability becoming a shared 
responsibility. Everyone at H&M should live our values 
and help H&M become a more sustainable and successful 
business. We continued working on the implementation of 
our sustainability strategy throughout the year. More of our 
departments began a review of their work to identify the 
risks and opportunities associated with their activities. Our 
ambition is for all of our departments to establish targets and 
action plans for improving their sustainability performance 
themselves. 
Like everything else at H&M, our sustainability agenda is 
based on a drive for continuous improvement. Ultimately, 
our entire value chain has to be leaner, smarter and more 
sustainable than that of our competitors. We know that  taking a full value chain perspective will not happen 
overnight – but several of the initiatives that we are already 
involved in reach far beyond our own and our direct 
suppliers’ operations. The Better Cotton Initiative and All for 
Children are two examples of the key ones. 
We have a responsibility towards everyone who contributes 
to our success, and we need to make sure that we use our 
planet’s resources wisely. But being responsible is not only 
the right thing to do – it also makes perfect business sense. 
Everybody at H&M works hard to bring our customers 
fashion and quality at the best price. But because we know 
that customers expect more than fashion at reasonable 
prices, we aim to be a more sustainable alternative by 
offering products that have been made under good working 
conditions and with limited environmental impact. If we 
do the right things we should be able to increase sales and 
cut costs. And since many young people want to work for a 
responsible company that has a culture that matches their 
values, being at the forefront when it comes to sustainability 
also makes it possible for us to attract and keep engaged 
employees. 
We are sometimes asked if we can keep on doing what we 
do – if our business concept will continue to work in the 
long term. I do believe that people will always, in one way or CEO MESSAGE
APPROACH
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT , AS FOR EVERYTHING WE 
DO, HAS BEEN AT THE HEART OF OUR APPROACH TO 
SUSTAINABILITY FROM THE BEGINNING. WE ARE CONSTANTLY 
LOOKING FOR W AYS TO BE A MORE RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 
– AND TO INTEGRATE SUSTAINABLE THINKING INTO ALL THE 
DECISIONS WE MAKE.
02Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
another, be interested in fashion, quality and value for money. 
But we are already beginning to see a trend where consumers 
choose more responsible brands over less responsible ones. 
So we need to keep our ear to the ground and find ways to 
meet or even exceed our customers’ expectations of us. 
Last year, I signed the Copenhagen Communiqué to 
encourage the world’s leaders to agree on an ambitious 
climate deal. Although the Copenhagen Accord shows a 
willingness to fight climate change, it is unfortunate that it 
did not come closer to setting a global level playing field with 
clear regulatory signals and long-term carbon price visibility. 
Still, at H&M we have decided to step up our efforts in the 
next three years to further increase energy efficiency and 
reduce carbon emissions. 
I think the greatest contribution H&M makes to the 
communities where we operate is the jobs that we help create, 
both within H&M and throughout and around our supply 
chain. At the same time customers, employees, investors 
and others – rightfully – demand that we improve working 
conditions in our supply chain. Therefore, implementing our 
Code of Conduct remains at the heart of our sustainability 
agenda. We will also continue to look for ways to limit the 
environmental impact of our products, for example using and 
trying out new sustainable materials. 
Given our commitment to being a responsible business, it is 
natural that we continue to support the ten principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact. BEING RESPONSIBLE IS NOT ONLY 
THE RIGHT THING TO DO – IT ALSO 
MAKES PERFECT BUSINESS SENSE.“”APPROACH CEO MESSAGE
03
I appreciate that you are taking the time to learn about 
what we are doing to become a better business. We would 
love to hear about how you think we are doing so send us 
an email to sustainability@hm.com. 
Thank you, 
Karl-Johan Persson  
CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz ABStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
At H&M, we think that sustainability isn’t just an add-on. It’s 
an integral part of what it means to be a successful business. 
That’s why, when we think of sustainability, we look at it in 
terms of three connected areas: People, Planet and Profit.
OVERVIEW
We developed our new sustainability strategy in 2008 and 
started launching it in early 2009. The aim of the strategy is to 
help us become a business where sustainability is a natural and 
fully integrated part of everything we do, and a responsibility 
that all our departments share and manage together.
The new strategy means that H&M moved away from having 
a CSR department that coordinates all our sustainability 
activity. Instead, our CSR department now supports the other 
departments, guides and advises them as they set and move 
towards their own sustainability goals. 
Sustainability for H&M covers three areas: People, Planet 
and Profit. We believe that these three areas are deeply 
interconnected and cannot be treated separately. 
We have a sustainability vision and a sustainability policy. In 
order to achieve the vision and implement the policy, we have 
defined long-term goals as part of our sustainability strategy. 
At the core of our strategy is the aim to carefully balance 
between People, Planet and Profit to ensure the choices we 
make are sustainable in the long run.
VISION & POLICY  
Our sustainability vision
H&M’s business operations shall be run in a way that is 
economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. By 
sustainable we mean that the needs of both present and 
future generations must be fulfilled. 
Our sustainability policy
H&M’s business concept is to offer fashion and quality at the 
best price. Quality also means that the products have to be 
manufactured in a way that is environmentally and socially 
sustainable. Like all H&M’s activity, our CSR work is based on 
a drive for continuous improvement.We have a responsibility towards everyone who contributes to 
our success, including those who are not employees of H&M. 
That is why we work closely with our suppliers to develop a 
long-term, sustainable social and environmental standard in 
the factories that manufacture H&M’s products.
We have to ensure that our employees’ human rights are not 
violated, and the same applies to employees of our suppliers 
and other cooperation partners, and to our customers.
We apply the precautionary principle in our environmental 
work and have adopted a preventative approach with the 
substitution of hazardous chemicals.
We strive to use resources as efficiently as possible and to 
minimise waste. By adopting new technologies and methods, 
we can work preventatively to minimise our environmental 
footprint through improved production processes and 
our choice of materials. We must continuously review the 
company’s goals and strategies to reduce the company’s 
climate impact.
Our decisions are based on careful consideration, where 
shorter or longer-term environmental benefits are weighed 
up in order to ensure that we choose solutions that are 
sustainable in the long term.
We want to be a good global citizen and act responsibly in 
our business relations. We take a clear stand against all forms 
of corruption. We engage in dialogue with all our various 
stakeholders to build trust in our operations within the 
environment we rely on for our long-term success.
LONG-TERM GOALS  
Our aim is to run our business in a sustainable way by 
reaching our Profit goal to increase the number of stores by 
10–15% per year with continued high profitability and our 
People and Planet goals. 
People
We shall be at the forefront of social sustainability by: 
•  offering our customers safe products and a secure shopping 
environment
•  being a responsible and preferred employer for existing and 
potential employeesSUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYAPPROACH SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
04Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
•  ensuring that everyone employed by our suppliers and their 
subcontractors are guaranteed, as a minimum, their rights 
as stipulated by relevant laws covering labour rights, health 
and safety in the workplace
•  contributing to the development of the communities where 
we operate
•  acting in a way that is ethical and respectful towards the 
people we touch.
Planet
We shall be at the forefront of environmental sustainability by:
•  minimising the need for extraction of fossil fuel, metals and 
minerals from the earth’s crust
•  using and promoting safe and biodegradable substances 
that do not accumulate in the environment
•  maintaining eco-system services by contributing to the 
conservation of soil, water, air and species.
FOCUS
T raditionally, our CSR focus has been on how our products 
are made and, to some extent, how they are transported and 
sold. We want to broaden our scope to take into account every 
part of our products’ life cycle, from the moment a cotton 
seed is planted all the way to the point that a product is 
disposed of, reused or recycled.
Our guiding principle is: the closer an activity is to our 
internal operations, the greater and earlier our focus and 
investment. Widening our scope to include our entire supply 
chain will take time, but some of our initiatives already reach 
far back in the supply chain.
OUR PRODUCTS’ JOURNEY  
FROM COTTON TO CUSTOMER
We want to run our business in an economically, socially and 
environmentally sustainable way. To do this we aim to look 
at the complete life cycle of our products, from the way our 
suppliers produce them to how our customers use them – 
and work towards making a difference wherever we can. 
We focus on areas where we have influence and where we 
can make the most difference. These are our own operations, 
transport, and the suppliers with whom we have a direct 
business relationship.We also want to improve stages further back in our supply 
chain, such as raw materials and fabric production. We are 
working on ways to increase our influence in these areas. By 
working in partnership with suppliers, we want to improve 
their ability to manage their own sustainability. Read more 
about how we work with our supply chain on page 14.
Raw materials
Although we do not purchase the raw materials used in 
our products, such as cotton or wool, we want to limit their 
negative social and environmental impacts. We work with 
organisations such as the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) and 
Organic Exchange to help in reducing these impacts.
In 2009 we launched the All for Children project together 
with UNICEF , aiming to support children in two cotton-
producing areas in India. We are working towards further 
increasing our use of organic cotton and other more 
sustainable materials, such as organic wool or recycled cotton. 
Material processing
In most cases we do not have direct business relationships 
with fabric and material manufacturers. However, we try to 
encourage fabric manufacturers to make their business more 
sustainable through our Cleaner Production Programme and 
our newly established Mill Development Programme.
Product manufacture
In 2009 we worked with around 700 suppliers, mainly in 
Asia and Europe. In total this stands for around 1,900 
production units, representing both our suppliers’ own and 
subcontracted factories. As a buyer, we are in a position 
to have a positive influence on working conditions and 
environmental management at our suppliers’ operations.
T ransport
We are committed to reducing the impacts resulting from 
transporting our goods and we work actively with our 
transport suppliers and other organisations to find ways to  
do so. This helps to find smart ways of transporting our goods, 
both from an environmental and from a cost perspective. 
05
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
CSR organisation  
H&M’s shared responsibility approach moves us away from 
having a CSR department that coordinates our sustainability 
activity, to a CSR support department that guides and advises 
other departments within H&M as they set and move towards 
their individual sustainability goals. 
H&M’s global CSR team comprised 83 people by the end 
of 2009. All in all, 11 people work in the CSR support 
department at our Head Office in Stockholm. They are:
• one CSR Manager, reporting directly to CEO
• three Environmental Coordinators
• three Code of Conduct Coordinators
• one Community Investment Coordinator
• one CSR Controller
• one Product Coordinator
• one IT Administrator.
The other 72 team members are based in our production 
offices around the world and report to the CSR support 
department as well as their local offices. They are:
• four Regional CSR Managers
• five Code of Conduct Managers
• five CSR Controllers
• two CSR Project Coordinators
• two Code of Conduct Administrators
• five Senior Auditors
• 47 Auditors
• four EHS Auditors
• one Global EHS Coordinator (based in Hong Kong)
•  one Global Fabric and Fibre Coordinator (based 
in Shanghai).Sales
By the end of the financial year 2009, there were around 2,000 
H&M stores in 35 countries and we employed around 76,000 
people. We are working hard to reduce our environmental 
impact in this area, such as the carbon footprint caused by 
the energy used in our stores, offices and distribution centres. 
We also recognise that being a good and attractive employer 
for all our colleagues and potential new employees is 
important for our future growth. 
Customer use
Our responsibility to our customers includes ensuring that 
our products are safe and of a good quality. We restrict 
substances that can be harmful and carried out around 50,000 
chemical tests in 2009, starting at the earliest possible stage in 
the production chain.
We help our customers reduce the impact of our products 
on the environment by providing advice about washing 
garments.
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
A shared responsibility means that all departments are now 
individually responsible for integrating sustainable thinking 
into their business routines, initiating actions and setting 
targets. All decisions should be taken keeping People, Planet 
and Profit in mind. To fully integrate sustainability into 
the different departments will be a step-by-step process. 
Sustainability issues influencing more than one department 
are discussed in the decision-making forum called the  
Green Room.
 
Update
The strategy was presented to all our central function 
heads in early 2009 and we have started to gradually 
introduce the strategy in the organisation. Along with 
that our CSR support team assists the development 
of goals and actions within each department. Many 
departments have already begun to set their own targets 
and are in progress to meet them.
06Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH ABOUT US
H&M’s business concept is to offer our customers fashion 
and quality at the best price. Quality is about ensuring our 
products meet or exceed the expectations of our customers.  
It also means that our clothes should be made and sold  
under good working conditions and with a limited impact  
on the environment.
GLOBAL BRAND, GLOBAL IMPACT  
AND REACH
H&M was established in Sweden in 1947 and by the end of 
the financial year 2009 we sold clothes, accessories, footwear 
and cosmetics in around 2,000 stores in 35 countries, and via 
internet and catalogue sales in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, 
Finland, the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. 
Since 2009 we have also been selling home textiles through 
online and catalogue sales. H&M also stands behind the 
brand COS and holds the majority of shares of FaBric 
Scandinavien AB, with its brands Cheap Monday, Weekday 
and Monki. 
We do not own or operate any factories producing our goods, 
but instead work with approximately 700 suppliers mainly in 
Asia and Europe.
To us, sustainability goes hand in hand with our business 
concept: to offer fashion and quality at the best price. 
Quality is about ensuring our products meet or exceed the 
expectations of our customers. It also means that our clothes 
should be made and sold under good working conditions and 
with a limited impact on the environment.Given our global presence, we have a responsibility to 
the societies around us. Taking responsibility for how our 
operations affect people and the environment is key to H&M’s 
continued profitability and growth. We are committed to 
integrating social and environmental concerns into all our 
business operations and investing in the communities where 
we work.
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS 2009
• We opened 250 stores in 2009 (net).
•  By the end of the financial year 2009, there was a total of 
1,988 stores in 35 countries across four continents and we 
employed around 76,000 employees.
•  In March 2009, Russia got its very first H&M store. The 
launch in Moscow attracted hundreds of customers. This 
very positive reception was in 2009 followed by another 
three successful openings in the Moscow area and the 
opening of our first store in St. Petersburg. 
•  The first H&M store in Beijing opened in April 2009. By the 
end of 2009 there were 27 stores in China.
•  H&M arrived in Lebanon in October 2009 and during 
the year a total of three stores, all run through a franchise 
agreement, opened their doors in Beirut’s most popular 
shopping district.  
•  Expansion continues in Japan, where we opened four new 
stores in 2009.
•  During 2009 the first Monki stores opened in Norway and 
Denmark. The store chains Monki and Weekday also opened 
their first stores outside Scandinavia, in Germany. Both 
chains are run by H&M subsidiary FaBric Scandinavien AB. 
•  In 2009, store chain COS – Collection of Style – expanded 
into France and Spain. At the end of the financial year there 
were 23 COS stores, with plans to open a further 12 stores  
in 2010.
  Three guest designer collaborations caused great interest 
among our customers:
•  In April 2009 we launched a capsule collection for women 
in around 200 stores, created by the British fashion designer 
Matthew Williamson. The fantastic reception was followed 
barely one month later by a more comprehensive summer ABOUT US
07
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH ABOUT US
collection for both men and women, which was sold in 
around 1,600 H&M stores.
•  In autumn 2009, legendary accessories brand Jimmy Choo 
created a sophisticated, fashionable guest collection of 
shoes and accessories along with a capsule clothing range 
for men and women. From 14 November, thousands of eager 
customers were given the chance to discover the collection, 
which was sold in around 200 selected city stores.
•  A guest collection of underwear from French fashion house 
Sonia Rykiel was launched in time for the Christmas season. 
Sonia Rykiel pour H&M was sold in 1,500 H&M stores as 
well as in eight of Sonia Rykiel’s own boutiques all over the 
world from 5 December, 2009.
•  With the current huge interest in interiors and design, 
H&M launched H&M Home in February 2009. H&M Home 
is an interior textiles concept with sales via the internet 
and catalogue in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, the 
Netherlands, Germany and Austria.
•  Together with the Designers Against Aids organisation, 
H&M is supporting the battle against HIV and AIDS. Our 
second Fashion Against Aids collection, which also spreads 
a safe sex message to young people, raised SEK 16.4 m 
(USD 2.2 m) for HIV/AIDS prevention projects.
•  In 2009, H&M started All for Children with UNICEF to 
protect the rights of children in India living in areas where 
cotton is produced. All for Children includes a USD 4.5 m 
donation from H&M over five years.
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING
Our advertising and the way we communicate can have 
a big impact. We also feel it is important to be perceived 
in a positive, diverse and inspiring way without offending 
anyone. H&M therefore follows the International Chamber 
of Commerce’s basic rules for advertisements and we have 
our own advertising policy. The advertising policy covers the purpose of our advertising and how H&M seeks to promote 
a variety of different looks and styles in our advertising, it 
also highlights that H&M distances itself from working with 
notably underweight models. 
Advertising policy
H&M communicates its business concept of ‘fashion and 
quality at the best price’ through the various advertising 
campaigns we produce each year throughout the world. The 
campaigns are designed to be clear and simple and aim to 
inform our customers of what is new at H&M and to show 
who we are and what we stand for. All of the campaigns show 
the season’s designs and the price of the clothes pictured.
H&M’s advertising campaigns are produced centrally in 
Sweden by H&M’s marketing department in cooperation with 
creative professionals located in the major fashion hubs of 
the world. The advertisements that we produce are largely 
identical in all of our markets, but the media strategy is 
adapted to local requirements and conditions.
H&M’s marketing has a major impact and it is essential for 
us to convey a positive and healthy image. H&M’s advertising 
images do not aim to communicate one specific ideal, but 
rather a range of lifestyles and attitudes. Each season we 
strive to feature models with different looks, styles, and 
cultural backgrounds to advertise our concepts for women, 
men, teenagers and children.
Models are chosen in collaboration between internationally 
recognised agencies and our representatives. The models 
depicted in our advertising must be healthy and wholesome, 
and they must maintain a lifestyle consistent with the 
high prestige and good reputation of H&M. The company 
deliberately distances itself from drug and alcohol abuse, and 
will not use models that are notably underweight.
H&M has special guidelines for the advertising of our 
children’s concepts. The target audience is parents, not 
children, and we place advertisements in media that are 
not aimed directly at children. Children who take part 
in our campaigns must take part of their own free will. If 
children are cast in a photo shoot, there is always an H&M 
representative present to ensure the safety of the children 
and to maintain a professional environment.
INTEGRITY
At H&M, we make it a rule to act with integrity at all times – 
and we implement policies that help us stick to it. This means 
08
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH ABOUT US
Update
Our Code of Ethics was revised in 2009 and a dedicated 
email address is in place to allow reporting of concerns 
or suspicions of possible breaches of the Code. In 2009 
the whistleblowing email address was communicated to 
all relevant parts of the organisation and to our suppliers. 
To maximise confidentiality, only the Global Security 
Manager can review these reports.
A total of 1,175 employees in our production offices 
(98%) and 618 managers in our sales organisations that 
are in regular contact with business partners, underwent 
training on the revised Code. A reminder of the updated 
Code was also sent to 90% of relevant employees. 
The total number of identified breaches in 2009 was ten 
employees and three suppliers. So this is a total of 13 
cases which led to terminations.  
In 2010 we will continue to track the number of breaches 
reported and investigated. 
Political contributions and lobbying
H&M does not provide direct financial contributions to 
individual politicians or political parties. H&M does  
however reserve the right, by way of lobbying, to attempt to 
influence political decisions that may have an impact on the 
Company’s business.that H&M does not accept any form of bribery and we take a 
clear stand against all types of corruption.
Code of Ethics
As a business committed to acting responsibly, we insist 
on operating ethically and professionally in our business 
relationships at all times. We do not accept any form of 
bribery and we take a stand against all types of corruption. 
We address these issues through our Code of Ethics, H&M’s 
company-wide anti-corruption policy. This was set up in 2003 
and was last updated in 2009. 
The Code of Ethics states that business partners may  
not provide any kind of gifts or other advantages to H&M 
employees. In the same way, H&M employees must not 
require or accept any personal advantages from any business 
partner.
The Code applies to all business partners and all those H&M 
employees who are in regular contact with external business 
partners. We have two versions of the Code, one for suppliers 
and one for employees. 
We make all our suppliers and employees aware of the Code, 
and we give them information to help them understand it. 
All of our suppliers must sign the Code before they can be 
accepted as suppliers to H&M. 
During the recruitment process we inform new employees 
of the Code. This includes all employees working in our 
production organisations, our Head Office, and all employees 
in our sales organisations that have regular contact with 
external business partners.
H&M has a confidential whistleblowing procedure in  
place whereby potential breaches of the Code of Ethics  
can be reported. 
09Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS
Engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders is important 
to H&M so we regularly work with other people and 
organisations in order to share knowledge and best practice 
and address issues together where useful. 
OUR APPROACH
We aim to discuss issues with our stakeholders openly, 
participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives, meet with NGOs, 
trade unions and industry groups, hold investor and analyst 
meetings and conduct stakeholder feedback. 
To consider our material issues we continually assess the 
topics under discussion with our stakeholders. H&M’s 
approach is to take a pragmatic and realistic view. We do not 
believe in making empty claims about change when often the 
issues we face do not have quick fixes. Working in partnership 
with others can enhance the impact of our work where we 
have a direct influence and help us to better address issues 
where our influence is limited. 
MATERIALITY AND  
STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK
To consider our material issues, H&M continually assesses 
the topics under discussion with our stakeholders. The aim is 
for our reporting to reflect our discussions with, and requests 
from, key stakeholders such as customers, employees, 
organisations and investors. Using the Global Reporting 
Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the 
Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement, also help us gain 
insight into stakeholder expectations. 
Read more about some of our key stakeholder relationships 
with different organisations, initiatives and NGOs in this 
section. 
Feedback on our sustainability activities and objectives is very 
valuable to us. Dialogue with our stakeholders is an important 
part of H&M’s ambitions to improve our sustainability work 
even further. An example of this is the revision of our Code of 
Conduct in 2009. During this process we asked a number of 
our stakeholders for feedback and input on a first draft. Many 
points raised by them were very valuable and we incorporated 
several of their comments into our updated Code and our 
implementation guidelines.The stakeholders we received feedback from include: 
• UNICEF
• Clean Clothes Campaign Sweden (Rena Kläder)
• UNI (Union Network International) 
• Swedbank Robur 
•  ITGLWF (International Textile, Garment & Leather 
Workers’ Federation). 
You can find brief interviews with some of our stakeholders 
in the relevant sections of this report. The full set of Q & As 
can be found on page 73.
MEMBERSHIPS, INDICES AND AW ARDS
Working in partnership with other organisations, such as 
multi-stakeholder initiatives, NGOs, trade unions or other 
companies can sometimes help to address issues of collective 
concern more effectively than H&M can individually. 
Working in this way can also help H&M learn and improve 
as an organisation. Summarised here are some of our 
memberships and the recognition, through sustainability 
indices or rankings and awards that H&M has received for 
our sustainability work.
Memberships
UN Global Compact (UNGC)  
We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact. 
The Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for 
businesses that are committed to aligning their operations 
and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in 
the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-
corruption. H&M is also a signatory to the CEO Water 
Mandate, a voluntary initiative from the UNGC addressing the 
urgent issue of water scarcity. Read our Communications on 
Progress – Water on page 37.
Business for Social Responsibility (BSR)
H&M has been a member of the Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR) for several years. BSR is a global 
network of more than 250 member companies to develop 
sustainable business strategies and solutions through 
consulting, research, and cross-sector collaboration. An 
example of our work with the BSR is a study performed to 
assess the carbon emission resulting from our supply chain. 
Read more about this study on page 45.ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS
10Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS
Supply chain-related memberships  
Fair Labor Association (FLA)
We are accredited members of the Fair Labor Association 
(FLA), a non-profit organisation dedicated to improving 
working conditions in factories worldwide. The FLA conducts 
independent audits of suppliers that we use in China and 
publishes results on their website. This was extended to 
cover suppliers in T urkey in 2009. We became accredited 
members of the FLA in 2008 following a two-year assessment 
process by the organisation. Read more about independent 
monitoring and verification at www.fairlabor.org.
Multi-Fibre Agreement (MFA) Forum Bangladesh
H&M actively participates in the MFA Forum Bangladesh. The 
textile industry in Bangladesh faces a number of challenges 
that we believe should be dealt with at national and industry 
level rather than at company level only. Members of the 
MFA include brands, representatives of the Bangladeshi 
government, the local industry organisations and a number 
of other organisations. The Forum discusses various issues, 
including wages and responsible purchasing practices. Read 
more about our beyond monitoring initiatives on page 21.  
Read more about the MFA Forum at www.mfa-forum.net. 
Better Factories Cambodia (BFC) & Better Work Foundation
H&M has been supporting the Better Factories Cambodia 
(BFC) programme since 2005. This initiative aims to 
improve working conditions in Cambodia’s export 
garment factories. The BFC programme is managed by the 
International Labour Organisation (ILO) and supported by 
the Cambodian government, the Garment Manufacturers 
Association of Cambodia (GMAC), a number of trade unions 
and international brands. Its work includes independent 
monitoring according to the international ILO standards and 
national law and is complemented by an extensive capacity 
building programme. All H&M suppliers in Cambodia are 
subject to this monitoring. The ILO has started a global 
programme called Better Work, based on the model of the 
BFC. The new programme covers other countries from 
Asia and the Pacific region. Read more about working in 
partnership in our supply chain on page 23.
Read more about BFC at www.betterfactories.org and about 
Better Work at www.betterwork.org.Environmental memberships  
Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)
H&M plays a very active role in the Better Cotton Initiative 
(BCI) as an elected member of its council. The BCI aims to 
promote measurable improvements in the key environmental 
and social impacts of cotton cultivation worldwide to make it 
more sustainable. Read more about our work with the Better 
Cotton Initiative on page 34.
Organic Exchange
Organic Exchange is a non-profit organisation that is 
committed to expanding organic agriculture, with a specific 
focus on increasing the production and use of organically 
grown fibres such as cotton. Read more about our work with 
organic cotton on page 34.
European Retail Round Table (ERRT)
H&M is a member of the European Retail Round Table 
(ERRT) and has signed up to the Retail Declaration on 
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy provided by the 
ERRT. The Declaration commits H&M to reduce energy use 
in store by 20% per square metre and to source 20% of energy 
from renewable sources by 2020. Within the framework we 
are also working on common requirements for transport 
providers. Read more about this commitment on page 43. 
Clean Shipping Project
The Clean Shipping Project is an initiative between the 
Swedish government and different companies. It aims to 
reduce environmental impacts resulting from sea transports 
and H&M is actively involved. Read more about the project 
on page 42.
Product quality-related memberships
AFIRM
H&M is a member of the steering committee of AFIRM, 
which is a multi-company forum that aims to advance the 
global management of restricted substances in the apparel 
and footwear supply chain. Read about our approach to 
chemicals management on page 55.
Leather Working Group
To address the environmental challenges associated with 
leather production, we joined the Leather Working Group in 
2009. The Group promotes more sustainable and appropriate 
business practices within the footwear leather industry. 
The Group consists of suppliers, retailers, NGOs and other 
stakeholder organisations. Read more about the Group on  
page 57.
11Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS
Ethical Indices, rankings and awards
Ethibel Sustainability Index
The Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) groups four indices: 
ESI Pioneer Global, ESI Pioneer Europe; ESI Excellence 
Global and ESI Excellence Europe. H&M is a constituent  
of all four. 
The Ethibel Pioneer indices consist of companies showing, 
on the basis of Vigeo ratings, the most outstanding scores 
in terms of social and environmental sustainability and 
meeting the ethical criteria established by the independent 
organisation, Forum Ethibel. The Ethibel Excellence indices 
consist of companies showing above-average performance in 
terms of social and environmental sustainability. 
FTSE4Good Index
H&M is a listed company of the FTSE4Good Index series. 
FTSE4Good is an index series for Socially Responsible 
Investment (SRI) set up by FTSE, a leading global index 
provider. FTSE4Good aims to set an objective global 
standard for socially responsible investment and is one of 
the benchmarks to consider when comparing ethical funds 
against an index of its peers.ECPI
H&M is a constituent of two ECPI ethical indices, the ECPI 
Ethical Index Euro, and the ECPI Ethical Index Global. The  
ECPI European index selects the 150 top capitalised 
companies in the European market that are eligible 
investments according to the ECPI Screening Methodology. 
The Global index selects the 300 top capitalised companies in 
the global market.
OMX GES Sustainability Sweden 
H&M is a constituent of the OMX GES Sustainability 
Sweden, a benchmark index which comprises the 30 leading 
NASDAQ OMX Stockholm-listed companies in terms of 
sustainability.
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations
H&M is listed on rank four on the list of the Global 100 Most 
Sustainable Corporations in the World, as developed by 
Corporate Knights and its partners. 
PETA Proggy Award 2009 – Company of the Year
For our efforts towards animal welfare and updates on our 
product policy, the organisation PETA awarded H&M with 
the “Proggy Award” as company of the year 2009.
12Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
APPROACH HOW WE REPORT
We report activities and progress on our sustainability 
programmes annually. This report covers H&M’s global 
operations from January to December 2009. Fiscal 
information and details about our employees are reported 
according to our annual reporting cycle of 1 December 2008 
to 30 November 2009. Our last sustainability report was 
published in April 2009. 
This 2009 sustainability report covers our activities in relation 
to our business operations, our supply chain, our impact on 
the environment, our products and how they are produced, 
our employees and the communities around us.
This report is dedicated to Erik Carlborg, H&M’s Regional CSR 
Manager in Shanghai, who passed away on 26 January 2010.
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI)
We use the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the 
pilot Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement to inform our 
sustainability reporting. A GRI reference table can be found 
in Performance. We have included the indicators from the 
pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement but 
have not included them in our self-assessment rating as they 
are not yet finalised.HOW WE REPORT
ASSURANCE
We do not currently assure our report. While we recognise 
that some stakeholders appreciate assurance, we believe  
our resources are still best placed in furthering our 
sustainability work. 
We are committed to open and honest disclosure and 
this report is part of that process. We also believe that our 
involvement in multi-stakeholder initiatives like the Fair 
Labor Association, as well as other feedback from our 
stakeholders of which some is published in this report, add 
value and credibility to our sustainability work and reporting. 
CONTACT
For further information please contact:
H & M HENNES & MAURITZ AB  
Communications & Press Department
sustainability@hm.com
13Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 14
SUPPLY CHAIN
H&M DOES NOT OWN OR OPERATE ANY FACTORIES. AROUND 
700 SUPPLIERS MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS AND MANY 
OF THEM ARE LOCATED IN COUNTRIES WHERE HUMAN 
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS ARE A RISK. WE BELIEVE THAT WE 
HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO EVERYONE WHO CONTRIBUTES 
TO OUR SUCCESS, INCLUDING OUR SUPPLIERS AND THEIR 
EMPLOYEES. SO USING OUR INFLUENCE TO PROMOTE GOOD 
PRACTICES AMONG OUR SUPPLIERS IS ONE OF THE BEST 
W AYS WE CAN MAKE A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE.Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
We believe we have a responsibility towards everyone who 
contributes to our success. This includes our around 700 
suppliers and their employees. 
H&M does not own any of the factories that manufacture 
our products. Instead, manufacturing of our garments, 
accessories, shoes, cosmetics and home textiles, takes 
place in over 30 countries mainly in Asia and Europe, in 
approximately 1,900 factories owned or subcontracted by 
our suppliers. As a large international company and buyer 
we strive to positively influence our suppliers to improve 
environmental and working conditions in their operations.
About our supply chain
Our supply chain involves a number of processes and people. 
The descriptions below explain some of the key roles in 
managing our supply chain.
•  Buyer:  Our buying office is based in Stockholm, Sweden, 
where our designer and buyers, together with pattern 
makers and the merchandisers in our production offices, 
create, plan and purchase our collections.
•  Merchandiser:  Based in one of our 16 production offices 
in Asia and Europe, merchandisers are the link between 
H&M’s buying office and our suppliers. They identify 
suppliers to place orders with.
•  Auditor:  Also based in our production offices, our audit 
teams comprising around 70 people, monitor suppliers’ 
compliance with our Code of Conduct. Our auditors 
conduct the H&M Full Audit Programme (FAP), which 
includes full audits for potential and existing factories, and 
follow-up audits (FUP) that assess improvement progress 
and the implementation of H&M requirements. They work 
alongside our regional CSR managers and Code of Conduct 
managers, as well as our merchandisers.
•  Factory employee:  Hundreds of thousands of people are 
involved in the manufacture of H&M’s products. Factory 
employees should be aware of and able to claim their rights. 
As a buyer we have the opportunity and responsibility to 
contribute to better workplace conditions. We require that 
our suppliers comply with our Code of Conduct and work 
to raise awareness on rights at work, both among factory 
employees and managers.•  Supplier:  H&M’s products are made by around 700 
suppliers. All our suppliers sign our Code of Conduct, 
and we monitor their compliance with the Code using our 
Full Audit Programme. But we also go beyond monitoring 
compliance – the aim is that suppliers themselves ensure 
good working conditions and environmental performance. 
We support them through various capacity-building 
initiatives and focus on our key suppliers that account for 
about 70% of our total purchasing volumes. 
Here we have defined some of the terms used in this report:
•  Supplier:  independent company with which H&M has a 
direct business contract.
•  Production unit:  all factories where production for H&M 
takes place. This includes our suppliers’ own factories 
as well as factories which can be subcontracted by our 
suppliers, such as washing or dyeing units.
•  Subcontractor:  independent factory (units) which may 
be contracted by our suppliers to perform certain parts 
of the production process such as washing. The use of 
subcontracted units needs to first be approved by H&M and 
all such units are subject to our Full Audit Programme.
•  Second-tier suppliers:  the suppliers of our suppliers, such 
as fabric or yarn manufacturers. In general H&M has no 
direct relations with these companies.
•  Key suppliers:  the best identified suppliers in terms of 
the balance between price, lead time, compliance with our 
Code of Conduct, quality and sampling. Working closely 
with H&M as partners and long-term planners.
CODE OF CONDUCT
The H&M Code of Conduct outlines the requirements 
we have towards all our suppliers for improving working 
conditions and environmental practices in their operations. 
Suppliers must work towards full compliance with our 
Code of Conduct and we conduct regular audits to assess 
levels of compliance with the Code through our Full Audit 
Programme. Read more on our auditing process on page 17.MONITORING SUPPLIERSSUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING SUPPLIERS
15Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING SUPPLIERS
About our Code of Conduct
H&M’s Code of Conduct was first drawn up in 1997 and is 
based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and 
the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. It also stipulates 
that local legislation must be observed.
Our Code of Conduct has eight sections, covering:
• legal requirements
• a ban on child labour
• health & safety
• workers’ rights
• housing conditions
• environment
• systems approach
• monitoring and enforcement.
To help our suppliers and their subcontractors understand 
our Code of Conduct and our expectations, H&M provides 
an implementation guidance document for suppliers. This 
guidance is available in English, Chinese, T urkish and 
Romanian.
 
Update
In 2009 we revised our Code of Conduct. During this 
process we asked a number of our stakeholders for 
feedback and input on a first draft and incorporated 
several of their valuable comments.
Major updates included:  
• a strengthened approach towards management systems  
• more specific requirements  
• clearer phrasing and structure.
Following its revision, we have also decided to extend 
the scope of our Code of Conduct. In addition to all of 
our direct suppliers and their own and subcontracted 
factories, the Code is now designed so that it can 
also be applied to all other business partners such as 
manufacturers of non-commercial goods.The updated Code of Conduct was in the process of 
translation at the time of writing this report. It will be 
published on hm.com. 
We also recognise that some of our stakeholders would 
appreciate a reference to living  wages in our Code of Conduct. 
Read what our CSR Manager, Ingrid Schullström, says about 
the issue of wages on page 74.
Expanding reach
As part of our 2009 Code of Conduct revision we worked 
towards expanding its reach and making it applicable for 
all H&M business partners, including manufacturers of 
non-commercial products. These goods are those that are 
not produced to be sold – so ranging from interior items, 
mannequins, stands and hangers, to mail order and other 
materials.
 
Update
To create a standard approach for non-commercial 
suppliers we gathered departments that purchase 
these goods together in 2009 to investigate options for 
working together. We identified relevant synergies and 
are currently looking into options of how best to use and 
manage these.  
Integrating non-H&M brands
Since 2008 H&M holds the majority of the shares of FaBric 
Scandinavien AB – the company behind the brands Cheap 
Monday, Weekday and Monki. In 2009 we assessed a number 
of FaBric Scandinavien’s suppliers and started working on 
integrating them into our auditing process. 
All production for Monki is with H&M suppliers and is 
integrated within our Full Audit Programme. This means 
that all production for Monki in China or T urkey is subject 
to independent verification under the scope of the Fair 
Labor Association (FLA), while all other production remains 
covered by independent verification through the companies’ 
affiliation with the Fair Wear Foundation. 
All production for COS is covered by H&M’s Code of 
Conduct and our Full Audit Programme.
16Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING SUPPLIERS
AUDITING SUPPLIERS
The Full Audit Programme (FAP) is how we monitor our 
suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct. A thorough 
FAP audit is carried out regularly by H&M’s audit team at all 
factories used by our suppliers and provides us with a good 
understanding of the conditions of those factories. 
Following a full audit, factories are graded according to our 
grading system and a correction plan is agreed on. A follow 
up audit is then carried out to assess progress against this 
correction plan. 
The audit process
In general terms, the audit process involves an inspection 
of the site and examination of a variety of company files and 
records, such as timesheets, wage records and employment 
contracts, to determine compliance with the questions within 
the Full Audit Programme questionnaire. The questionnaire 
consists of more than 90 main questions and a number of 
verification points and is the main tool used during our audits.
Management systems are analysed and interviews with 
employees and management are conducted at the time 
of the audit. Interviews with employees are part of every 
FAP audit. They are conducted on the factory premises 
without management attending. H&M auditors select the 
interviewees randomly and from a selection of different roles 
and departments within a factory. We are aware of the risk 
of employee answers being influenced. It is therefore highly 
important that our auditors have good interview skills.
We provide factory employees that we interview with business 
cards with our contact details so that they can contact us and 
report any grievance directly to H&M. 
Once the audit is complete (full audits can take up to six-
person-days), the results are discussed with the management 
and a time-frame to rectify areas of non-compliance is agreed. 
Suppliers must then draft a correction plan specifying 
timings and identifying those responsible for making the 
changes. This correction plan can include both short and 
long-term remediation activities. H&M’s auditors will then 
check on the implementation of the measures outlined with 
follow-up audits. 
We are aware of the risk of documents being faked or correct 
documents being kept from our auditors. For several years 
we have focused on creating trustful partnerships with our 
suppliers. This remains to be a challenge, particularly in China. Read more about how we addressed this challenge 
and worked towards reaching full transparency with our 
Chinese suppliers on page 79. 
Follow-up audits
Follow-up audits are part of the improvement process and allow 
a discussion of improvements in more depth. The focus of the 
follow-up is on the supplier’s own solutions and progress. 
An important part of this process is to help the supplier 
understand the value of making improvements and how this 
benefits their business and their long-term relationship with 
H&M. This approach often results in greater trust and a better 
business relationship between suppliers and H&M. 
Targeted visits
In some cases our auditors also conduct targeted factory 
visits, in the evening, during weekends or holidays for 
example. The purpose of these visits is to see if production is 
running, to compare operating hours with time records and 
detect any unreported overtime. Another example is visits to 
factories on the day wages are paid in order to check whether 
the wages register corresponds with the amounts that the 
workers have been paid. If any employee training, evacuation 
drills, or other activities aimed at improving safety or workers’ 
awareness is scheduled, we may also visit the factory to 
observe.
Read about our 2009 audit findings and other related data in 
performance.
Auditor training
Auditing the working conditions at our suppliers’ factories 
is central to our approach to sustainability. To carry out 
this process well, we must ensure that our auditors are 
well trained in the methods and tools of our Full Audit 
Programme. 
T raining new auditors
Our standard training programme for new auditors takes 12 
weeks and consists of:
•  a general introduction to H&M from factory to store and an 
overview of the Production Office organisation
•  background reading on H&M’s Code of Conduct, guidelines 
and policies, approach to auditing and guidelines for audit 
practice
•  background reading on relevant labour law and 
international standards
17Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING SUPPLIERS
•  standard H&M introduction and training on a range of 
subjects including H&M’s Full Audit Programme (FAP)
•  practical experience visiting factories, shadowing an 
experienced auditor and finally conducting an audit with a 
senior colleague.
As well as educating new auditors we need to ensure our 
existing auditors keep up to date with changes to our audit 
system and undertake continuing professional development 
in the area of auditing, requirements and regulations.
Changes to the Full Audit Programme
Further to the changes made in 2008 to improve our 
approach to health and safety auditing and increase the 
focus on workers’ basic rights, in 2009 we have continued to 
improve our Full Audit Programme.
Assessing suppliers’ management systems
The introduction of our Management System Scorecard in 
2009 was a key development in how we audit suppliers. Some 
workers’ rights issues, such as freedom of association, forced 
labour and discrimination can be hard to identify in standard 
audits, so we have changed our approach. Rather than only 
looking for incidents of these issues, we focus today on the 
existence and effectiveness of supplier management systems 
that are aimed at preventing workers’ rights issues arising. 
We are currently working on developing the system for 
grading suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct to 
also include how well they score on the management system 
scorecard.  Management System Scorecard
In recent years we have moved away from simply 
monitoring our suppliers and checking that they are 
complying with our Code of Conduct, and have started 
to concentrate on promoting the implementation of 
sufficient management systems. Establishing more 
effective management systems is often the best way to 
address complex workers’ rights issues such as freedom 
of association, forced labour, abusive behaviour and 
discrimination, where clear evidence of supplier non-
compliance can be difficult to uncover. We feel that an 
approach that promotes management systems that prevent 
these issues arising in the first place, rather than handling 
them once they have happened, is a better way to deliver 
lasting benefits.
Update
In order to measure strengths and weaknesses in 
our suppliers’ management systems, we developed 
a Management System Scorecard and started its 
implementation in 2009. Initial results as identified with 
help of the Management System Scorecard showed a 
strong correlation between well functioning management 
systems and a higher compliance level.
We are currently working on creating a new supplier 
grading index that will use results from the Management 
System Scorecard along with audit findings to provide an 
overall evaluation of suppliers’ compliance with our Code 
of Conduct.CASE STUDY
Supplier grading  
To become an H&M supplier, it is not necessary to meet all 
the demands in our Code of Conduct in advance. We have 
a grading system that recognises how well suppliers and 
potential suppliers and the factories they use comply with our 
Code of Conduct. Our auditors grade them through our Full 
Audit Programme.
To qualify as an H&M supplier, the minimum requirements 
of our Code of Conduct have to be fulfilled and each 
factory needs first to be approved through our Full Audit 
18Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING SUPPLIERS
Programme. This includes a ban on child labour, compliance 
with the ILO’s core conventions, a minimum wage for all 
employees and fundamental safety provisions should be 
in place at the factory. The minimum requirements are 
equivalent to the supplier grade ‘temporary’. 
Supplier grades are integrated into our purchasing systems 
and define from which suppliers our merchandising teams 
can or cannot source. Grading levels and audit findings are 
discussed in detail with our suppliers in order to make our 
expectation of them clear.
We use the following five-point grading system to monitor 
progress towards full compliance with our Code of Conduct. 
Suppliers can move up the grading system depending on 
their actions. To support progress, they cannot move down 
a grade to ‘temporary’ from a previous higher grading. A 
downgrade from a higher level will lead to rejection. However, 
progressing supplier standards has priority for us rather than 
just shifting production elsewhere. 
Our supplier grades
•  Satisfactory:  the supplier/production unit fulfils all Code of 
Conduct requirements and the production of H&M goods is 
approved and promoted.
•  Insufficient:  the supplier/production unit fulfils the 
‘temporary’ grading requirements plus some additional 
requirements, but it needs to make further improvements to 
reach full compliance. The production of goods is approved.
•  Temporary:  the supplier/production unit fulfils 
requirements regarding basic worker rights, minimum wage, 
basic safety and basic housing conditions. It is temporarily 
approved to produce H&M goods for six months. In 
this time the supplier/production unit must make the 
improvements necessary to reach the ‘insufficient’ grade, 
otherwise the grading will drop to ‘rejected’.
•  Rejected:  a supplier/production unit is rejected for any of 
the following: denies workers’ basic rights; the minimum 
wage is not paid; factory premises are unsafe; H&M is 
denied access to factory premises; management refuses 
to cooperate. The supplier/production unit is suspended 
but can resume business with H&M if the necessary 
improvements are carried out and verified.
•  Permanently rejected:  a supplier repeatedly uses 
undeclared production units, a supplier/production 
unit repeatedly employs child labour or shows no will to cooperate and comply with H&M’s requirements. No 
production of H&M goods will be allowed.
 
Update  
In 2009 we started a trial to create a new system for 
grading suppliers. This has so far been tested in three 
production countries. Moving on from the five-point 
grading system, this new system could provide a grading 
index that provides a percentage score for suppliers’ 
compliance with our Code of Conduct, further integrating 
management system analysis into our supplier evaluation. 
The new system will continue to be evaluated during 2010.
Home working  
In some countries our suppliers may, in compliance with our 
policy, use home work for specific parts of the production 
process, such as hand embroidering, beading and jewellery 
making. Home working often takes place in villages situated 
some distance from our suppliers’ factories. This makes it 
harder to monitor whether worker rights are being upheld.
There are several concerns around home working, but 
however, it can be beneficial in some production countries 
because it is often carried out by women and can be 
an important contributor to a family’s income. In many 
cases women home workers would be unable to take up 
employment due to household and parental responsibilities 
and women often tend to spend their income on their 
family, thereby improving living standards. For these reasons 
H&M has decided to accept home work in some situations. 
However, these situations are limited.
Our policy is that any operation that is part of the industrial 
process and can be performed in a factory should be 
performed there. Home work is only accepted when the work 
requires a special workmanship skill and can be considered 
as handicraft, such as beading or embroidery.
We require our suppliers to inform us when home working is 
being used. In accordance with our home worker policy this 
includes requiring the following information per order:
• location of the production (village, city area, etc.)
• name and address of intermediaries (contractor/local agent)
• number of workers involved
• number of weeks for completing each home working order
19Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING SUPPLIERS
• average time needed to make one piece
• piece rate paid to the worker.
We also strive for further requirements and routines being 
implemented globally, but we focus on the implementation of 
our existing policy.
INDEPENDENT MONITORING  
AND VERIFICATION
H&M has been a participating company of the Fair Labor 
Association (FLA) since 2006. In 2008 we became an 
accredited member. The FLA is a multi-stakeholder 
organisation that strives to improve labour conditions in factories around the world and conducts independent 
factory audits. Being an accredited member means that the 
Full Audit Programme we use for monitoring suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct, and our process for 
addressing violations of the Code, have been assessed by FLA 
and are in line with their standards. 
Working with the FLA over this period has played an 
important part in our auditing process and their feedback has been valuable in improving our approach to auditing. 
Independent verification gives H&M the opportunity to 
strengthen the credibility of our audit systems’ effectiveness among our stakeholders. Results of FLA audits on our 
suppliers are published on the FLA’s website.
FLA in China
Initially the FLA only conducted independent audits at factories in China. Since becoming an accredited member 
there have been fewer FLA audits in China. Update 
In 2009 the FLA conducted four verification (follow-
up) audits from original audits in 2008 and three new 
audits. This compares to 17 new audits and five follow-up audits in 2008.With fewer visits, we are able to redirect 
our investment with the FLA in China to other projects.     
We will join the FLA PREPARE project in 2010. The project is planned to be extended to China and aims to 
improve worker representation in factories.
Read more on the challenge of promoting freedom of 
association in China and elsewhere page 76. 
FLA 3.0
FLA 3.0 was developed by the FLA aiming to help factories assess their own level of labour compliance. Its approach is to 
shift the monitoring emphasis from policing to partnership. 
H&M is taking part in FLA 3.0, which complements our aim for suppliers to take more ownership of the conditions in 
their factories. Suppliers are more likely to address problems 
and achieve real progress if they understand the issues, their causes and what benefit improved practices can bring.
In 2009 we have, however, not been able to increase the 
number of suppliers wishing to be involved in FLA 3.0 and still only have one supplier in China in the project. It is 
possible that the programme is too complex and that this 
works against more suppliers becoming involved. 
FLA in T urkey
Based on our work with the FLA in China, we decided to expand independent verification audits into T urkey, another 
large purchasing market for H&M. In 2009 the FLA audited 
a total of 12 factories in T urkey. The FLA made the choice of which sites to visit based on details provided by us, such as 
type, size, number of employees, processes carried out etc., 
but without H&M’s knowledge about their decisions.
Following an FLA audit, we are provided with the results 
to which we respond with an action plan detailing improvements to be made by H&M and the supplier. All FLA 
audits and action plans are published on the FLA website. 
The FLA audits in T urkey did not uncover any unexpected 
issues, although there was a somewhat higher than expected 
number of issues with health and safety. Issues around social 
security payments were also raised. We will continue to follow up on this through our Full Audit Programme.
20Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
Monitoring our suppliers is an important part of our work. 
But monitoring alone is sometimes not enough to address 
complex issues, such as workers’ rights. In the long run, we 
want our suppliers to take charge of their own sustainability. 
So we support them in building their ability to improve 
working conditions, as well as helping workers understand 
their rights as employees.
Here you can find an overview of the actions we took in 2009 
to build the capacity of our suppliers and help raise workers’ 
awareness. 
BUILDING MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
In recent years, to achieve long-lasting improvements in 
our supply chain, we have focused on helping suppliers 
implement effective management systems. This means 
moving away from just compliance checking and on to a 
more in-depth analysis of the big issues around quality of 
management.
Modular supplier training for better compliance in China
In 2009, we held training workshops for all our key suppliers 
in China. Using case studies, these day-long workshops 
addressed the challenges we face in China today, including 
recruitment and HR, attendance recording and salary 
payment, basic worker rights, labour law and legal compliance 
system, and health and safety systems. A total of around 600 
people received training, representing 40 suppliers and 80 
factories. 
Following the training, we asked suppliers to return to 
their operations and build their own management systems. 
Feedback suggests that suppliers were very positive about 
the training and found it useful. Follow-up on one training 
module shows that most factories now have clear policies 
and routines to deal with the issues, clearly defined 
responsibilities and have trained their own staff. In 2010,  
we plan to follow up on the remaining modules.
Compliance training for accessories suppliers in China
By the end of 2008, audits of our supply base in China had 
shown us that especially, many accessories suppliers needed 
to improve their compliance with our Code of Conduct. In 2009, we launched two initiatives to give 36 Chinese 
accessories factories step-by-step guidance with compliance 
issues: the Internal Compliance Team Project (ICTP) and 
External Support Programme (ESP). 
The ICPT and ESP were implemented by our Code of 
Conduct team, with external help. The first module focused 
on improving EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) 
management systems to ensure that the factories had no 
violations on the most serious issues within these areas. 
Of the 36 factories, 23 passed Module One. In 2010, these 
factories will move on to Module Two, which covers issues 
such as recruitment, wages and overtime.
Best practice workshop in Bangladesh
In 2009, we ran a best practice workshop in Bangladesh in 
which well compliant suppliers showed others the benefits of 
creating better working conditions in factories. The aim was 
to encourage suppliers to adopt best practices, improving the 
working environment, the health and safety of workers, and 
relations between workers and management.
A total of 85 suppliers took part in the workshop. We received 
positive feedback from participants, many of whom said they  
were inspired to make changes to their own practices. Others 
said that the workshop had helped them understand how better  
conditions can lead to reduced absenteeism and migration.
Best practice workshop in Indonesia
The textile manufacturing industry is extremely competitive 
and factories are rarely willing to share information about 
how they operate. However, in 2009 one of the most advanced 
of our suppliers in Indonesia expressed an interest in sharing 
best practices with other suppliers. We helped facilitate the 
workshop and encouraged representatives from eight fellow 
supplier factories to attend.
The workshop gave our key suppliers the opportunity to gain 
a better understanding of our requirements and ways they 
could make long-lasting improvements. This event was a big 
step for communications amongst our suppliers and we will 
continue to encourage further exchange. BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
21Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
Management T raining,  
IFC-SEDF and GAP Inc., Bangladesh
We identified that a better functioning HR management 
system and better communication tools were necessary 
to raise the awareness of workers’ rights and other key 
requirements among management at our suppliers’ factories 
in Bangladesh. 
In cooperation with IFC-SEDF and GAP Inc., we initiated  
a pilot programme at five factories in 2007. 
 
Update
During 2009, the five factories involved were evaluated 
on two occasions. These evaluations showed improved 
communication between the management and workers, 
and greater awareness for workers’ rights. Approximately 
17,000 workers have both directly and indirectly 
benefited from this programme.
Supplier Development Programme (SDP)
The Supplier Development Programme (SDP) aims to 
increase factory productivity. Ten factories in China have 
enrolled in the programme. Expected benefits from the 
programme are, among others, increased efficiency and 
to gradually reach the legal limit of working hours while 
maintaining salary levels. 
Representatives from the suppliers involved in this 
programme have conducted audits together with our auditors. 
The pilot joint audits have been successful and the factories 
have shown transparency and understanding of their own 
shortcomings. The suppliers have agreed to report back to 
H&M on a number of different key performance indicators 
(KPIs) relating to productivity.
Read what one of the participating suppliers has to say about 
the programme on page 79.
T raining on sandblasting, Bangladesh
Sandblasting is a technique used to give denim products a 
used, washed or distressed look. It’s a process that can pose 
serious health risks, so it’s important that anyone carrying out 
sandblasting takes the correct safety measures and that the 
required materials are used.
The correct use of sandblasting equipment and protection 
measures is part of every FAP audit at all factories that 
perform sandblasting.During our regular audits of suppliers in Bangladesh, we 
found that not everyone uses the right personal protection 
equipment when working in sandblasting units, even though 
it is provided. 
 
Update
In 2009, we continued to hold workshops addressing  
the issue of sandblasting safety procedures. Until now  
all factories performing sandblasting have received  
this training. Any new applicable factory will receive  
the training systematically as they enter a partnership 
with H&M.
RAISING WORKERS’ AW ARENESS
Raising awareness about workers’ rights and responsibilities 
among workers and the management of our suppliers is an 
important part of our work.
Film project to raise awareness of garment worker rights, 
Bangladesh
From our long-term experience in Bangladesh we identified 
a need to raise awareness about rights and responsibilities 
among workers and managers, supervisors and line-chiefs. 
To address this need we produced a series of short films 
with accompanying training in collaboration with a local film 
production company and a number of local NGOs. Five films 
were produced covering some of the key issues identified by 
our Full Audit Programme, namely: maternity leave, leave 
and documentation, abuse and grievance, health and safety, 
and overtime. Grievance systems and worker management 
communication are cross-cutting issues and are emphasised 
in all the films. The films show day-to-day scenarios on how 
workers and managers can and should deal with situations 
that might arise. 
Besides raising awareness, our aim was to encourage more 
suppliers to improve their own training programmes, for 
example by using these materials to help educate new 
employees. 
 
Update
In 2009, a total of 153,931 workers and 15,140 managers, 
supervisors and line-chiefs from 107 factories in 
Bangladesh watched the films and received the associated 
training and training manual. These training tools were 
presented and handed out to six other brands during 2009.
22Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
Awareness of workers’ rights in Tirupur, India
We started working on a modular training project in the 
Tirupur area, India, in 2007. The aim of this project is to raise 
workers’ awareness and understanding of local labour laws 
and workers’ rights so that they become enabled to create 
functional committees and develop appropriate strategies for 
communication and grievance-handling systems.
 
Update
Approximately 4,000 factory employees have, to date, 
conducted the training. All H&M suppliers in the Tirupur 
area are involved in the project.
WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP
We strive to cooperate with others such as NGOs and are part 
of different multi-stakeholder initiatives where joint actions 
might have the best impact in a particular area. We also work 
with other brands wherever this is useful. 
Multi-Fiber Agreement (MFA) Forum Bangladesh
The textile industry in Bangladesh faces a number of 
challenges that we believe should be dealt with at national 
and industry level rather than at company level only. The 
MFA Forum Bangladesh is a multi-stakeholder forum that 
has come together to promote sustainability in the textile 
and garments industry in Bangladesh by concentrating on 
responsible competitiveness. It consists of 88 members. 
The aim of the Forum is to address various issues in the 
industry such as: raise of minimum wages, labour conditions, 
responsible purchasing practices, industry competitiveness 
and workers’ skills and education. Read more about the MFA 
Forum at www.mfa-forum.net.
Fair Labor Association (FLA)
We have been a participating company of the Fair Labor 
Association (FLA) since 2006. Since 2008, H&M is an 
accredited member. This means that our Code of Conduct, 
our Full Audit Programme and related processes are in line 
with the FLA standards. The aim of this collaboration is to 
promote good working conditions in the textile industry and 
to ensure that human rights and international and national 
labour law are respected. Since 2006, the FLA has carried out 
independent audits on our suppliers’ factories in China. 
 Update
In 2009, we extended our collaboration and the FLA now 
audits our suppliers in T urkey, another large purchasing 
market for H&M. Our supply chain monitoring system 
has also been assessed and accredited by the FLA.
Read more about our work with the FLA on page 20.
Better Factories Cambodia (BFC)
We have supported the Better Factories Cambodia (BFC) 
programme since 2005. This initiative aims to improve 
working conditions in Cambodia’s export garment factories. 
As an active member we participate in two forums a year. 
The BFC programme is managed by the International 
Labour Organisation (ILO) and supported by the Cambodian 
Government, the Garment Manufacturers Association 
of Cambodia (GMAC), a number of trade unions and 
international brands. Its work includes independent 
monitoring according to the international ILO standards and 
national law and is complemented by an extensive capacity 
building programme. The programme has contributed to a 
significantly improved compliance level from our Cambodian 
suppliers. Since 2008, all our suppliers in Cambodia are 
subject to audits performed by the ILO in frame of the  
Better Factories Programme. Read more about BFC at  
www.betterfactories.org.
Better Work Programme 
With an aim of bringing employees and employers together 
to find solutions to ensure a sustainable labour market, the 
International Labour Organisation (ILO) has started a global 
programme called Better Work, based on the model of the BFC. 
The new programme covers Vietnam, Jordan and Lesotho, 
with the intention of rolling it out in more and more 
countries in Asia and the Pacific region. 
 
Update
In 2009 the Better Work Vietnam programme was 
initiated and Indonesia is expected to begin in 2010. Both 
are countries where H&M suppliers are based and will 
actively participate in both country programmes. 
Read more about Better Work at www.betterwork.org.
23Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
REACHING FURTHER BACK  
IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
Our audit programme addresses all of our first tier suppliers 
and their subcontractors, such as washing or dyeing units. 
But we rarely have any direct influence on stages further back 
in our supply chain – such as fabric or yarn manufacturing, 
or further still, on raw material production such as cotton. 
We cannot pose direct demands on these stages, instead 
cooperating with others is one way of achieving improvements.
Cotton from Uzbekistan
H&M takes a clear stand against child labour, and does not 
accept that underage workers are used anywhere in our supply chain – including cotton production. Although we do 
not have direct business relations with cotton producers, and 
the routes of global cotton trade are often complex, H&M 
seeks to avoid the use of Uzbek cotton due to the use of 
forced child labour in cotton cultivation. 
H&M has taken several steps to avoid cotton from Uzbekistan. 
As the majority of the raw cotton imported to Bangladesh 
comes from Uzbekistan, our initial efforts have been focused 
on our suppliers in Bangladesh. SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
Cotton from Uzbekistan
H&M takes a clear stand against child labour, and does 
not accept that underage workers are used anywhere in 
our supply chain – including cotton cultivation. One of 
our concerns is the use of forced child labour in cotton 
cultivation in Uzbekistan. Although we do not have direct 
business relations with cotton producers, and the routes of 
global cotton trade are often complex, we seek to avoid the 
use of Uzbek cotton where we can. In the same instance, 
Uzbekistan is one of the largest cotton producers in the 
world and avoiding the use of cotton from there is a serious 
challenge. 
Although it would not be fair to claim for being able 
to guarantee a boycott, H&M has taken several steps in 
order to avoid cotton from Uzbekistan. As the majority 
of the raw cotton imported to Bangladesh comes from 
Uzbekistan, our initial efforts have been focused on 
suppliers in Bangladesh. In the spring of 2008, we received 
confirmation from the around ten suppliers who have their 
own spinning mills and source their own raw cotton that 
they do not purchase cotton from Uzbekistan. 
In 2010 we will begin requesting that all our garment 
suppliers in Bangladesh declare the country of origin 
of the cotton, yarn and fabric used for each H&M order. CASE STUDY
The routines will vary slightly depending on whether the 
suppliers use domestically produced or imported yarn 
and/or fabric. Furthermore, we are investigating methods 
which can realistically be used routinely and on a large 
scale to trace the origin of cotton, in order to be able to 
promote or avoid certain markets. Additionally, through 
the organisation As Y ou Sow we share experiences and 
coordinate activities with others. 
In the longer term, our aim is that all cotton used for H&M 
products shall come from sustainable sources allowing 
traceability of the country of origin. We will never accept 
forced and/or child labour and therefore, as long as the 
government of Uzbekistan continues to compel children 
as workers in its cotton fields, Uzbek cotton cannot be an 
option for H&M and others in our supply chain. 
Read more about this issue in our CSR Manager’s online 
column at www.hm.com/sustainability.
Read more about H&M’s contribution to more sustainable 
cotton farming on pages 33-35 and 67. 
24Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
All for Children
In 2009, H&M launched the All for Children project together 
with UNICEF , our most ambitious community initiative to 
date. We aim to combat the root causes of child labour and 
improve the situation of children in two districts in the state 
of Tamil Nadu. The five-year project is supported with a SEK 
40 m (USD 4.5 m) donation from H&M and run by UNICEF . 
It is focused on five specific areas. 
Read more about All for Children on page 67.
Organic cotton
Conventional cotton can require heavy use of pesticides and 
fertilisers. Organically grown means, among other things, 
that no chemical fertilisers or pesticides may be used in 
its production. Currently, organic cotton is used in all our 
clothing divisions. We offer both 100% organic cotton clothes 
and blended organic garments containing 50% organic and 
conventional cotton. 
Read more about organic cotton on page 34.Better Cotton Initiative
The vast majority of the cotton available is conventional, 
non-organic cotton. H&M is actively involved in the Better 
Cotton Initiative (BCI) in order to improve conditions in 
conventional cotton growing. The BCI is a long-term initiative 
that develops and promotes good farm practices, allowing 
more cotton to be grown while reducing inputs such as water 
and chemicals. 
Read more about our work with the BCI on page 34.
Cleaner Production Programme
For four years H&M has worked with fabric mills that have 
dyeing operations, to encourage improvements in their 
environmental practices. These suppliers are H&M’s  
second-tier suppliers, where we have limited influence. 
We take a voluntary approach to addressing environmental 
issues with two programmes in both Bangladesh and China. 
The programmes consist of around 40 easy-to-implement 
environmental measures that are directly linked to cost 
savings and profitability. Read more about our Cleaner 
Production Programmes in China and Bangladesh on page 40.SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
25Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
Mill Development Programme
In general, we do not have direct business relationships with 
second-tier suppliers such as fabric mills and therefore our 
influence and possibilities to set requirements are limited. Fabric production can require an intensive use of chemicals 
and faces a number of environmental and health & safety 
concerns. In 2009, we have started working with a number of fabric mills with fabric bookings through our production 
offices in our new Mill Development Programme.  
Integrating scarf and jewellery production  
in India into audit programme
Production of scarves and jewellery in India takes place in production and weaving centres which are, in most cases not 
owned by our suppliers. To date, this type of production has 
therefore been regarded as part of raw material processing. Accordingly, our knowledge about and our influence on 
conditions of this production have been low. 
In 2009, H&M decided to take this step further back in our 
supply chain and change this approach towards scarf and 
jewellery production. Read more about this in the case study 
on the following page.
26Mill Development ProgrammeIn general, we do not have direct business relationships 
with second-tier suppliers such as fabric mills and 
therefore our influence and possibilities to set requirements are limited. Fabric production can require 
an intensive use of chemicals and faces a number of 
environmental and health & safety concerns.
For some years we have therefore focused our work on 
supporting fabric mills in becoming more sustainable through voluntary programmes such as Cleaner Fabric 
Production in China or our Cleaner Production Program 
in Bangladesh. While these initiatives will continue, we have put additional efforts into strengthening our influence 
on this second-tier stage of our supply chain.
In 2008, we identified some fabric bookings through our 
production offices, selected fabric suppliers in China and 
conducted an assessment with around 20 of their dyeing 
mills in China. 
Update 
Following up on this first assessment we established our new Mill Development Programme, targeting fabric 
suppliers with direct bookings through our production 
offices and their dyeing mills in China and Bangladesh. 
The new Mill Development Programme consists of four 
steps:
• the identification of fabric suppliers’ dyeing mills 
• raising awareness of H&M’s requirements 
•  a self-assessment conducted by the dyeing mills and 
correction of the issues highlighted in our first visit
•  a udit of dyeing mills, focusing on the above-mentioned 
issues, conducted by H&M.
As part of the programme in China, 18 mills were audited. In Bangladesh, we conducted audits on eight dyeing mills.
In 2010, we aim for this programme to be implemented as 
an integrated part of each fabric booking process in China. 
Related training to prepare our responsible production office employees was conducted in December 2009.CASE STUDYStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN BEYOND SUPPLIER MONITORING
Integrating scarf and jewellery production in India into 
our audit programme
Production of scarves and jewellery in India takes place in 
production and weaving centres which are in most cases 
not owned by our suppliers. T o date, this type of production 
has therefore been regarded as part of raw material 
processing. Accordingly, our knowledge about and our 
influence on conditions of this production have been low. 
In 2009, H&M decided to take this step further back in 
our supply chain and change this approach towards scarf 
and jewellery production. We started to integrate these 
production and weaving centres into our audit programme, 
focusing on India as a major production country. Major 
challenges include working hours, overtime compensation, 
access to social security and workers’ basic rights. In 
jewellery production we also see environmental and health 
and safety concerns.
T o address these challenges we decided to work out 
a step-by-step approach to contribute to long-lasting 
improvements in this area. All production and weaving 
centres for scarves and jewellery in India are now part 
of our audit programme. The first audits conducted 
proved the challenges ahead but also showed openness 
to improvements and changes, especially in the field of 
working hours and health and safety requirements. T o 
support progress and raise awareness on sustainability 
issues, we have started conducting dedicated training for  
all our suppliers sourcing scarves and jewellery, as well as 
for the factories themselves.CASE STUDY
27Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
RESPONSIBLE PURCHASINGSUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING
Demanding positive change from our suppliers is one thing. 
But we also need to consider how our own decisions affect 
our suppliers in their ability to comply with what we demand 
from them. That includes how we design, plan and purchase 
our collections. 
THE CHALLENGE
We have high expectations of our suppliers – in terms of 
quality, prices, lead times and Code of Conduct compliance. 
But demanding progress and good performance is one 
thing – our own decision-making can have an impact on our 
suppliers’ ability to live up to these demands. 
Late changes to a product’s design and poor communication 
with our suppliers can lead to tight production lead times 
and that way have an impact on the working conditions at our 
suppliers’ factories. In the same instance, this can also have 
an effect on quality and lead to inefficiencies. 
H&M aims to ensure that our own purchasing practices do not 
conflict with the requirements of our Code of Conduct during 
design, product planning and purchasing processes. This can 
sometimes be a challenge as consumer demand can vary. 
Having direct and long-term relationships with our suppliers 
helps us to understand their capacity, performance and 
adherence to our Code of Conduct. All factories have a Code 
of Conduct grade based on the results of our Full Audit 
Programme and are made aware of their grading status. 
We focus on our key suppliers in creating long-term planning 
systems, and stable and lasting partnerships. Regular mutual 
feedback, open communications, clear expectations and lead 
times all play an important part in this. We integrate Code of 
Conduct grading into our purchasing decisions, and train our 
production office staff on sustainability issues and how their 
decisions can affect our suppliers.
Read about how we work with our suppliers in practice in  
an interview with Halide Alagoz, Production Office Manager 
in Shanghai and Global Knitwear Production Manager on 
page 77.A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH
We work to form close and long-term partnerships with our 
suppliers as this provides mutual benefits. Our focus is on 
our key suppliers, which represent roughly 70% of our total 
purchasing volumes. 
Working in partnership allows us and our suppliers to plan 
ahead, to gain knowledge from each other and to develop 
and grow together. We think an honest approach and mutual 
transparency are the basis for a good business partnership. 
Being a good partner to H&M includes actively working 
towards full compliance with our Code of Conduct. Showing 
willingness to become such a partner will help suppliers 
become a key supplier, and include several related benefits, 
such as long-term order planning and stable orders over time. 
Read more about what our partnership approach means  
in practice with a case study from Cambodia on the  
following page. 
28Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING
Partnership approach in practice, Cambodia  
Cambodia takes a special role among the garment 
producing countries. Since 2001, all garment factories 
are subject to labour standard monitoring by the ILO-
run Better Factories Cambodia (BFC) programme. This 
has – despite still existing issues – given Cambodia the 
reputation of being a positive role model in terms of 
working conditions in the garment industry. Our own audit 
results pose a correspondingly good development in line 
with the conclusions published by the ILO in their 23rd 
Synthesis Report.
H&M has been participating in the programme since 
2006 and is actively supporting its efforts. Since 2008, all 
H&M suppliers in Cambodia are subject to independent 
monitoring by the BFC conducted by the ILO.
After several years of stable growth, the global economic 
downturn hit the Cambodian garment industry particularly 
strongly. In the first half of 2009, the total garment export 
value dropped considerably. Besides factory closures, this 
has led to resentments among many of the Cambodian 
garment producers and there have been discussions about 
the BFC exposing Cambodia to disadvantages in a more 
competitive market. 
In order to support the achievements made by the BFC 
and our Cambodian suppliers in terms of sustainable 
improvements and living up to our partnership approach, 
in 2009 we put a high focus on keeping our orders stable 
with our Cambodian suppliers. 
However, while showing good development in terms of 
Code of Conduct compliance, there are other shortcomings 
within the Cambodian garment industry such as a lack of 
skills and efficiency, which may pose a risk to the success 
of this role model programme. So, we have discussed with 
all our suppliers to take further steps in their development 
and H&M supports them in this. 
Some facts about Cambodia
GDP per capita:  1,802 USD 
Share of garment exports on GDP: 16% 
Share of garment export value on total exports:  75%
Factories producing for H&M in 2009:  34 
(Sources: World Bank, H&M)
Read more about the BFC at www.betterfactories.org.CASE STUDY COMMUNICATION IS KEY
We have a direct relationship with our suppliers and meet 
with them on a regular basis. We evaluate our suppliers twice 
a year and discuss the results together. In addition to that, 
there is also constant direct dialogue between our suppliers 
and production offices. 
Good communication based on trust also includes mutual 
learning and clarification of expectations well in advance. We 
strive to apply pre-order product planning wherever possible 
and focus on our key suppliers. This includes informing our 
supplier about product specifications as early as possible and 
creating long-term capacity planning.
Stable relations and capacity planning
Stable orders and long-term capacity planning are both 
essential to our suppliers. With our key suppliers we 
develop long-term capacity plans about six to twelve months 
in advance, and strive to plan our purchasing process 
accordingly. Our commitment is clear – together with H&M, 
we want them to grow and develop further.
Price setting
Prices naturally play a part in our supplier selection process, 
alongside factors such as capacities, lead times, quality and 
Code of Conduct compliance. To be able to negotiate prices 
with us, our suppliers need to have a clear picture of H&M’s 
expectations. In return we make sure that our merchandisers 
have good knowledge about reasonable market prices and 
the costs our suppliers have, in order to mutually agree on 
a realistic price. We follow a guideline of ‘negotiating, not 
bargaining’. Aspects not negotiable are compliance with the 
minimum requirements of our Code of Conduct and quality 
standards. H&M would not consider a supplier that does not 
meet these minimum requirements, regardless of the price 
which might be offered. 
Clear lead times and payments
As a fashion company in a fast moving market we need to 
meet our customers’ demands. This can sometimes mean late 
changes on a product order. In order to minimise such affects 
on our suppliers we aim to discuss volumes and lead times 
with our suppliers as early as possible. This process is started 
with our key suppliers a year in advance through intensive 
capacity and pre-order planning. Invoice payments must be 
always done on time and related procedures and prices are 
clearly agreed in advance.
29Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING
Awarding suppliers
We want our suppliers to be good partners to H&M. Only 
those suppliers showing a good development, both in terms 
of business performance and Code of Conduct compliance 
can be such a good partner. We award suppliers that show a 
good development with more stable orders or higher order 
volumes. 
Supplier development
In order to support our suppliers’ development, H&M places 
a focus on sharing knowledge and providing training. We 
think this will contribute to a more sustainable supply chain. 
Read more about our initiatives that go beyond supplier 
monitoring on pages 21-27. 
Integrating sustainability into purchasing systems
Our buying department and merchandising teams receive 
regular training on sustainability issues. Those responsible for 
placing orders with suppliers are required to understand our 
Code of Conduct grading and how their decisions can impact 
our suppliers. 
Our production offices around the world are responsible for 
identifying the right suppliers and allocating production. 
They conduct regular evaluations of all our suppliers, usually 
twice a year. Code of Conduct compliance is one part of 
this evaluation, alongside factors such as price, lead time 
and quality. They are working closely with our audit teams, 
composed of 70 people. Our auditors are responsible for 
monitoring how well existing and potential suppliers comply 
with our Code of Conduct. The grading they set as a result 
of an audit influences the choice of suppliers along with 
factors such as price, capacities and quality. It determines 
which suppliers can and cannot be used, and also plays a role 
when defining the quantities of orders placed with certain 
suppliers. Read more about our Code of Conduct on page 15 
and auditing process on page 17. 
Ending supplier relations responsibly
Our purchasing practices can have an effect on the working 
conditions in our supplier factories. So what happens when 
H&M needs to end our relationship with a supplier?
While rejecting suppliers could be seen as a quick fix to 
react on non-compliances, H&M commits to work together 
with our suppliers to make long-lasting improvements. 
With this in mind however, sometimes a situation can arise 
where we need to end a relationship – for example due 
to continued non-compliance with our Code of Conduct 
or our business requirements. Especially in economically difficult times, termination of contracts can leave thousands 
of garment workers unemployed. H&M therefore not only 
has responsibilities during an ongoing cooperation with a 
supplier, but also when a relationship comes to its end. We 
aim to prevent ending supplier relations by:
•  having close relations and in-depth knowledge of our 
suppliers through our own production offices 
•  having long-term partnerships with our key suppliers 
including stable capacity planning 
• close and constant communications and mutual feedback
• on time invoice payments 
•  working on improvements instead of simply rejecting 
suppliers with non-compliance issues
•  educating our suppliers and supporting supplier 
development
•  clearly informing suppliers about business risks possibly 
resulting from non-compliances. 
When a relationship inevitably needs to be ended, we commit 
to a reasonable phase-out period and inform our suppliers 
around 3–6 months in advance in order to give them the time 
and opportunity to utilise their capacity for other customers. 
When a supplier closes down factories, we also try to 
influence them to follow legal requirements.
30Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT
COMPANIES OF OUR SIZE CAN HAVE A BIG IMPACT ON 
THE ENVIRONMENT – AND THEY HAVE A DUTY TO THINK 
HARD ABOUT HOW TO REDUCE THEIR IMPACT . IT IS A 
RESPONSIBILITY WE TAKE VERY SERIOUSLY . WE AIM TO 
MINIMISE IMPACTS AT EVERY STAGE OF OUR PRODUCTS’ 
LIFE CYCLE, FROM HOW COTTON IS GROWN TO THE W AY 
OUR CUSTOMERS USE OUR GARMENTS.
31Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
As a big company we have a significant impact on the 
environment. Managing our business in a sustainable way 
includes striving to minimise this impact at every stage of 
our products’ life cycle, from the way cotton is grown to how 
our customers use our garments. Our sustainability strategy 
supports this aim (see page 04).
OUR FOCUS AREAS
To improve our environmental performance, we need to 
understand the main areas in which we have an impact, and 
have a programme of activities to address them effectively. 
Our key focus areas include:
• raw materials
• water
• carbon and energy
• recycling and waste. 
We further commit to restricting the use of harmful 
chemicals in our products. Read more about chemical 
management on page 55 and product labels such as the 
Flower eco-label on page 56.
As with many parts of our business, one of our main 
strategies is to work with our suppliers to help them improve 
their environmental performance and the performance of our 
products. One challenge we face is to influence our suppliers, 
for example through our Code of Conduct, audit programme 
and voluntary programmes. The other even bigger challenge 
is to influence the stages of the value chain outside of 
our direct influence, such as fabric production or cotton 
growing). Through cooperation or voluntary programmes, we 
aim to extend our influence.
Our Code of Conduct (see page 15) and Full Audit 
Programme (see page 17) address and monitor environmental 
issues such as waste water treatment and waste handling at 
our suppliers.ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
OUR LONG-TERM GOALS
Our long-term environmental goals provide focus for all  
of our environmental activities wherever they take place in  
our business:
We shall be at the forefront of environmental sustainability by:
•  minimising the need for extraction of fossil fuel, metals and 
minerals from the earth’s crust
•  using and promoting safe and biodegradable substances 
that do not accumulate in the environment
•  maintaining ecosystem services by contributing to the 
conservation of soil, water, air and species.
Read more about our overall long-term sustainability goals 
on page 04. 
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDANCE
To set global standards where possible and guide our sales 
country organisations on relevant environmental issues, 
such as energy use or waste handling, we have developed an 
environmental guidance document.
The document provides an overview of requirements and 
guidance on actions concerning environmental issues within 
our sales country organisations. This includes:
•  Country actions – all the issues, legal or company based, 
that require action.
• Legal requirements – these actions are required by law.
•  Reporting to authorities and organisations – in some 
areas data have to be reported at regular intervals to local 
authorities and/or organisations.
•  H&M requirements – requirements based on our corporate 
policies.
•  Reporting to head office – some information has to be 
reported back to the head office at regular intervals.
 
Update
The guidelines were introduced in 2009 to all sales 
country organisations.
32ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT RAW MATERIALS
Raw materials such as cotton can have a heavy impact on 
the environment. In the same instance, cotton is the raw 
material we use the most. Although we do not source any raw 
materials directly, we are committed to actively contributing 
to reduce their impacts. We work towards using more and 
more organic and recycled materials and are actively involved 
in the Better Cotton Initiative to contribute to long lasting 
improvements in conventional cotton farming.
APPROACH
We commit to reduce the environmental impacts of the raw 
materials we use. Cotton is the raw material we use the most. 
But there are a number of environmental and social concerns 
around it. That is why our approach towards raw materials is 
guided by a clear commitment towards cotton. 
H&M’s aim is for all cotton in our range to come from 
sustainable sources by 2020 at the latest. 
By sustainable sources we mean sources that show 
consideration for people or the environment and whose 
impact is less than the current impact of conventional cotton. 
Better Cotton, organic and recycled cotton are types of cotton 
that we currently define as sustainable.
We seek to reduce the environmental impact of the raw 
materials we use by:
•  Improving conventional cotton growing through an active 
role within the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI).
•  Increasing the amount of organic cotton we use to 15,000 
tonnes by 2013. 
•  Gradually introducing alternative fibres such as recycled 
and other organic materials and seeking to contribute to the 
innovation of new and more sustainable materials.
•  Using cotton from farmers in transition from conventional 
to organic cotton production.COTTON
The cotton supply chain faces some serious challenges and 
has both environmental and social impacts. From a growing 
perspective water scarcity and rising prices for inputs, such 
as fertilisers, may influence future cotton supply and cost. 
Improvements in the cotton growing process are also needed 
from a social point of view. That is why we work hard to help 
improve cotton growing.
Read more about cotton throughout this section and in an 
interview with Henrik Lampa, CSR Manager for products  
on page 81.
THE ISSUES AROUND COTTON
Cotton is a high-impact crop. According to WWF research 
it takes an average of 8,500 litres of water to grow one kilo of 
cotton lint, enough to make one pair of jeans. Conventional 
cotton can require heavy use of pesticides and also fertilisers 
and there are a number of social concerns.
H&M is a large user of cotton. As a result we strive to play our 
part in helping to address these challenges and to improve 
the sustainability of our most important raw material. We 
do this by focusing on collaborating with others such as 
the Better Cotton Initiative or UNICEF and by using more 
sustainable materials such as Better Cotton, organic cotton or 
recycled cotton. H&M’s aim is for all cotton in our range to 
come from such sustainable sources by 2020 at the latest.
Read about our new collaboration with UNICEF to support 
children in cotton growing areas in India, the All for Children 
initiative on page 67, and the challenges around cotton from 
Uzbekistan on page 24.RAW MATERIALS
33Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT RAW MATERIALS
ORGANIC COTTON
Our customers are showing a growing interest in organic 
cotton. We are responding by gradually using more 
organically grown cotton in the products we sell. Organically 
grown means, among other things, that no chemical fertilisers 
or pesticides may be used. Grown in T urkey, India and China, 
all our organic cotton is independently certified by accredited 
certification bodies. Additionally all factories handling 
organic cotton products are certified (by IMO and Control 
Union) according to the relevant standards, OE 100 and  
OE Blended. 
Organic cotton is used in all our clothing divisions (men, 
women, teenagers, children and home). We offer both 
100% organic cotton clothes and blended organic garments 
containing a mix of organic and conventional cotton. 
Garments are labelled accordingly to help our customers to 
make an informed choice. 
We have set a target to increase organic cotton use by at 
least 50% every year until 2013, based on the previous year’s 
target. The baseline for this staged increase is our 2008 target 
of 2,000 tonnes. Increasing by 50% each year from this level 
will mean that we will reach a total of 15,000 tonnes by 2013. 
Ensuring our 50% target is reached is the responsibility of 
our buying office, which plans our collections.
 
Update
In 2009, we used 8,500 tonnes of organic cotton, 
exceeding our target. By the end of 2010 we plan to 
use organic cotton in all of our Flower labelled baby 
garments, either as blended organic cotton or 100% 
organic cotton. The label certifies that harmful substances 
have been limited and water pollution reduced – across 
the whole production process, from the raw cotton to  
the final product.
In early 2010, the integrity of organic cotton chains was 
questioned in a few media reports. Read H&M’s response to 
the claims made at www.hm.com/environment.
Read more about how much organic cotton we are using in 
Performance on page 36.
Read more about the Flower eco-label on page 56.
Read more about organic cotton at www.organicexchange.org.BETTER COTTON INITIATIVE
Although we are substantially raising the amount of organic 
cotton we use, the vast majority of all available cotton is still 
produced conventionally. 
H&M is actively involved in the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) 
aiming to improve conditions in conventional cotton growing. 
The BCI is a long-term initiative that develops and promotes 
good farm practices allowing more cotton to be grown while 
reducing water and chemical use. The system established 
minimum environmental and social requirements for cotton 
growing.
The BCI is not a labelling scheme, nor will it provide 
Fairtrade or organic cotton. It aims to make all cotton more 
sustainable. It is a multi-stakeholder initiative that includes 
NGOs like WWF , companies, cotton producer groups and 
trade and industry bodies. H&M has been involved with the 
BCI since its inception in 2004, and is an elected member of 
the organisation’s council.
Following our aim to source all cotton in our range from 
sustainable sources, at the latest by 2020, we regard the BCI 
as the key initiative to reach this goal. To assist the transition 
from trial to implementation phase, H&M has further 
committed USD 750,000 between 2009 and 2011 to support 
farmer training in the BCI system. H&M and other project 
members have committed to using the Better Cotton from the 
2009–2012 implementation phase also in case it might not yet 
meet all of the minimum requirements of the BCI system. 
 
Update
The BCI is currently passing from the trial phase to 
implementation phase with farmers. Initial trials have 
provided a strong business case for the BCI system, with 
farmers achieving up to 49% more profitability, 92% less 
use of pesticides and 32% less use of water.
In late 2009, the BCI Council agreed on an assessment 
process, which aims to keep the focus on the farmer 
and the environment. It also aims to be as light touch as 
possible while maintaining credibility, and encouraging 
BCI farmers to share and spread knowledge. For this 
reason, depending on which element of the project is 
being assessed, there are three levels of assessment: 
• self assessment by farmers
• peer-to-peer assessment between farmers
• third party evaluation.
34Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT RAW MATERIALS
The BCI follows a strategic implementation plan until 2012, 
after which the system will be reviewed. It follows ten major 
goals to be achieved during this period. Among them is the 
aim to produce 300,000 tonnes of cotton lint as Better Cotton, 
in Brazil, India, Pakistan and West & Central Africa.
Read more about the BCI at www.bettercotton.org.
TRANSITIONAL COTTON
By demanding more organic cotton we can help create an 
incentive for more growers to shift to organic cultivation. 
However, the transition from conventional cotton to organic 
presents challenges for farmers.
Although the land is not considered organic during the 
transition period, organic standards apply immediately. This 
can result in lower crop yields during the changeover, while 
farmers cannot yet charge an organic premium for their 
cotton.
To support farmers we have decided to begin using cotton 
grown during this changeover phase, known as transitional 
cotton.
 
Update
Although we did not achieve our 2008 target to use 50 
tonnes of transitional cotton due to problems with its 
availability, we set a target of 250 tonnes for 2009. We 
booked 250 tonnes of transitional cotton in 2009, and we 
plan to blend this cotton into garments produced in 2010, 
while garments containing transitional cotton will not be 
specifically labelled as such. 
OTHER MATERIALS
Respect for the environment is important to us, and to our 
customers. Therefore we are using – and continuously trying 
out – new sustainable materials in our products, such as 
recycled cotton or organic wool. Our product policy outlines 
our requirements for the use of animal and wood originating 
materials.RECYCLED AND ORGANIC FIBRES
We use a range of other innovative and sustainable materials 
on a smaller scale. These include:
• organic wool
• organic linen
• recycled wool
• recycled polyester
• recycled polyamide
• recycled cotton.
Using these fibres is a first step in exploring their use in 
our products and is an investment in potential innovative 
opportunities in the future.
Organic wool comes from sheep that are raised on organic 
pastures and are given organic feed. In addition to this the 
sheep themselves are not treated with insecticides.
Recycled polyester comes from recycled PET bottles or textile 
remnants and recycled polyamide comes from fishing nets of 
textile remnants.
 
Update
In 2009, 16 different garments made from recycled cotton 
were introduced.
Read more about the use of sustainable materials at  
www.hm.com/materials.
MATERIALS ORIGINATING  
FROM ANIMALS AND WOOD
Our products should be manufactured in a way that is 
environmentally and socially sustainable. As part of this, 
animal welfare and protecting endangered species is 
important to us. For several years our commitments included 
to not use genuine fur in our collections, and also not to 
test our cosmetic products on animals. H&M is a Fur Free 
Alliance-listed retailer. Read more about the Fur Free 
Alliance at www.infurmation.org.
35Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT RAW MATERIALS
PERFORMANCE  
Organic cotton
From a base of 30 tonnes in 2006, we used 8,500 tonnes of 
organic cotton in 2009. This exceeded our target of 3,000 
tonnes by a considerable margin. 
Based on our use in 2008, Organic Exchange has identified 
H&M as the world’s fourth largest consumer of organic 
cotton.
Although our current use already exceeds our target for 
2011, we are realistic about the fact that we cannot sustain 
growth in the use of organic cotton at the rates witnessed in 
recent years (183% growth in 2009 and 131% growth in 2008). 
Therefore, we maintain our target of increasing the use of 
organic cotton by 50% compared to the previous year’s target.
Recycled cotton
We introduced 16 different garments made from recycled 
cotton with a total quantity of more than 400,000 pieces in 
2009. 
T ransitional cotton
As announced in our targets for 2009, we booked 250 tonnes 
of transitional cotton which we plan to blend into garments 
produced in 2010.  
Update
In 2009, we updated our product policy. The new policy 
now contains, amongst others, stricter requirements 
on angora wool, merino wool, use of animal skin and 
feathers and downs. This update has given us a clear 
direction on how to implement guidelines for the new 
requirements. We also received the “Proggy Award” as 
Company of the Year in 2009 from the organisation PETA 
in recognition of our updates to our policy and animal 
welfare efforts.
Our priorities for 2010 are to work on policy implementation. 
We plan to conduct our first audits on angora farms during 
2010. 
362006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Organic cotton use 30 1,300 3,000 8,500 - - - -
Target (50% increase on  
previous year’s target)- - 2,000 3,000 4,500 6,750 10,000 15,000Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
Water plays a part in almost every stage of our products’ 
lives, for instance when growing raw materials, dyeing fabrics 
and washing products. We work hard to improve water 
management throughout our supply chain and our direct 
operations. 
APPROACH  
Water plays a part in many stages of our products’ lives. For 
example, it is needed for growing raw materials, processing 
fabrics and washing finished products.
We want to improve the way we manage water throughout 
our supply chain. To guide our approach, we are a signatory 
to the CEO Water Mandate. This is a voluntary initiative that 
requires us to improve and report both our own and our 
suppliers’ water efficiency, as well as the quality of waste 
water they discharge.
For a number of years we have required suppliers who have 
wet processes such as dyeing and washing to treat their 
waste water. More recently we have also started to focus on 
suppliers’ water consumption. We prioritise water efficiency 
work with suppliers located in areas where water is scarce. 
We are actively involved in the Better Cotton Initiative that, 
among other things, helps help farmers grow cotton with less 
water use. Read more about the Better Cotton Initiative on 
page 34. 
We aim to improve water management in our supply chain 
through:
•  Our audit programme, which monitors the environmental 
requirements we place on our suppliers.
•  Monitoring the water footprint of factories that use wet 
processes, such as dyeing or washing.
•  The Cleaner Production Programme and the Mill 
Development Programme, aiming to improve the 
environmental performance of fabric producers.
•  Our support for WaterAid. We have been supporting the 
NGO since 2002.POLICY
In June 2008, H&M signed the CEO Water Mandate, a 
voluntary initiative from the UN Global Compact).
CEO W ATER MANDATE
The CEO Water Mandate is a voluntary initiative from the 
Global Compact. It consists of a group of companies that have 
committed to work collectively on issues of sustainable water 
management.
The mandate commits H&M to improve both our own and 
our suppliers’ water efficiency, improve wastewater quality 
and report transparently on progress. Specifically it covers six 
main areas: 
• direct operations
• supply chain and watershed management
• collective action
• public policy
• community engagement
• transparency.
Here you can read our Communications on Progress on  
the six key elements of the Mandate. Read more about  
the CEO Water Mandate and the Global Compact at  
www.unglobalcompact.org.
COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS – W ATER
In line with the key elements of the CEO Water Mandate, 
here you will find our Communications on Progress – Water 
(COP-Water).
DIRECT OPERATIONS
Although retail is a comparably low user of water, we aim 
to minimise the use of water in our own operations. One 
area where we can influence water use is in our stores and W ATERENVIRONMENT W ATER
37Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT W ATER
warehouses. When we built a store or distribution centre in 
2009 we followed certain guidelines. 
For stores:
• low-flow toilets
• low-flow taps in hand basins and kitchen sinks.
For distribution centres:
• low-consumption toilets
• low-flow taps
• shower armatures with automatic stop function.
For distribution centres we also have the following  
general guidelines: 
• minimise the use of potable water 
• use rainwater to rinse toilets 
•  use rainwater for external irrigation (irrigation system and 
external taps).
SUPPLY CHAIN  
Water use and efficiency
Since 2008, we have been working with suppliers to measure 
their water use so that we can understand the water footprint 
of different types of production. 
In 2009, we collected water-use data from 296 suppliers with 
own or subcontracted wet processing units. Comparing this 
water use with suppliers’ output, such as kilos of product 
or number of garments produced, has provided the water 
efficiency of our suppliers.
Suppliers’ water use
Water use efficiency index for suppliers with wet processing 
(litres/kilo of product)
Less than 100 l/kg products   71%  
100–200 l/kg products    16% 
More than 200 l/kg products   13%We mapped the location of these units and compared it 
against water scarcity maps as provided by the WBCSD 
(World Business Council for Sustainable Development). This 
showed that out of the assessed 296 factories, 84 are located 
in areas which are already or have been prognosticated to 
become extreme water scarce by 2025. Eight factories are 
located in areas which were classified as water scarce.
In 2010, we will analyse these 92 factories one by one in terms 
of water sources, total water use and water efficiency. Based 
on this we will then look into further benchmarks and related 
measures. 
W ASTE W ATER
Since 2006, we have required suppliers to treat their waste 
water to improve its quality and make it as safe as possible 
for discharge back into the environment. Waste water quality 
has to meet specific quality levels as defined by Business for 
Social Responsibility (BSR), or relevant laws, depending on 
which is stricter. 
These requirements focus on key water quality measures such 
as organic and chemical pollution levels and suspended solids 
within the waste water. 
We have monitored waste water quality by asking suppliers to 
submit the results of their quality tests. Suppliers can either 
use laboratories that are recommended by us or use the 
same testing standards as those used by our recommended 
laboratories.
Suppliers’ waste water quality
In 2009, the waste water quality of 198 production units with 
wet processes and their own treatment plants was assessed 
against the BSR guidelines, compared to 162 in 2008 (146 in 
2007). The following was found:
•  78.8% of suppliers reported biological oxygen demand 
(BOD) within the lowest threshold (less or equal to 30 mg/l), 
an improvement from 73.4% in 2008 
•  93.3% of suppliers reported chemical oxygen demand 
(COD) within the lowest threshold (less or equal to 200 
mg/l), an improvement from 90.6% in 2008 
•  76.3% of suppliers reported total suspended solids (TSS) 
results within the lowest threshold (less or equal to 30 mg/l), 
an improvement from 58.5% in 2008.
38Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT W ATER
If we find that the quality of suppliers’ waste water falls 
below our prescribed limits, we ask them to draft action 
plans. Within our regular audit programme we also check for 
example, the functionality of waste water treatment plants 
or if sludge resulting from waste water treatment is handled 
according to legal requirements.
 
COLLECTIVE ACTION
The CEO Water Mandate calls for collective action to bring 
about sustainable water management. 
BCI
We work with the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) on a 
programme to reduce the environmental impact of cotton 
by using less water and fertiliser, and fewer pesticides. Early 
trials show that the Better Cotton system can provide water 
savings of up to 32% over standard growing methods. Read 
more about the Better Cotton Initiative on page 34. 
Denim production
Rinse-washing denim garments to achieve a certain finish 
is a water-intensive process. Reducing this water use was 
the target of one of our pilot projects in 2009, with three 
suppliers in Bangladesh, two in Pakistan and two in  
southern China.
Cleaner Production Programme
For four years we have worked with fabric mills that have 
dyeing operations encouraging them to improve their 
environmental practices. These suppliers are H&M’s second-
tier suppliers where we have limited influence. We take a 
voluntary approach to addressing environmental issues 
with two programmes in both Bangladesh and China. 
The programmes consist of around 40 easy-to-implement 
environmental measures that are directly linked to cost 
savings and profitability. 
39Reducing water use in denim production
Rinse-washing denim garments to achieve a desired 
finish is a water-intensive process. Reducing this water 
use was the target of a pilot project in 2009 with three 
suppliers in Bangladesh, two in Pakistan and two in 
southern China.
Working in partnership with the chemical supplier Dow 
Corning, the project has introduced a special silicone-
based chemical in the washing process that reduces 
the number of washes needed. The new process is not 
effective with all types of washing styles, but can deliver 
water savings of up to 30%. T rials showed a saving of 
around 25 litres per pair of jeans.
In the long term we would like all denim suppliers to 
use the system or equal/better performing alternative 
techniques whenever applicable. More immediately 
in 2010, we plan to expand the project and to sign up 
more suppliers. Part of the challenge of the project 
is persuading suppliers to adopt the system and the 
new chemical, particularly in areas where water is free 
and suppliers worry about additional costs and new 
techniques, as is the case in Bangladesh.CASE STUDYStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT W ATER
40Cleaner Production Programme, China
For four years we have worked with fabric mills that 
have dyeing operations encouraging them to improve 
their environmental practices. Most of these companies 
are H&M’s second-tier suppliers where we have limited 
influence. We take a voluntary approach to tackling 
environmental issues with this programme. It consists of 
around 40 easy-to-implement environmental measures 
that are directly linked to cost savings and profitability. 
We do not normally have a direct relationship with 
the mills that provide our suppliers with fabric so 
our approach relies on the voluntary involvement of 
the fabric mills. A few of our suppliers are vertically 
integrated, meaning they manufacture fabric in addition 
to making garments, and in these cases the environmental 
requirements of our Code of Conduct apply. 
In some cases uptake of environmental improvements by 
fabric mills has been patchy, despite the fact that some 
of the improvements have been shown to have a return 
on investment in months rather than years. To encourage 
uptake we made some improvements in 2009. Firstly 
we created links to consultants to help mills implement 
environmental improvements without affecting quality, 
cost or output. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, 
we asked fabric mills to pay a small commitment fee 
(around SEK 50,000) to be part of the programme. 
We hoped that by paying a fee and having consultants on 
hand to help, mills would develop an increased sense of 
commitment and motivation to implement improvements. 
With the onset of the economic crisis, however, most 
of the mills felt the commitment fee was too much and 
involvement in the programme has trailed off. As a result 
of this, we have refocused our effort by working on a new 
partnership approach with cleaner fabric production 
in conjunction with a number of partners, for example 
through the Responsible Sourcing Initiative. CASE STUDY
Cleaner Production Programme, Bangladesh
During 2009, we refocused our approach to our Cleaner 
Production Programme in Bangladesh for 2010 onwards. 
We have entered into a long-term cleaner production 
project with a number of partners, these are:
•  South Asia Enterprise Development Facility (SEDF) –  
an arm of the International Finance Corporation (IFC)
• Solidaridad – a Dutch NGO 
•  Natural Resources Defence Council (NRDC) – a US 
based environmental NGO. 
The programme will run for six years. In addition 
to making environmental improvements with fabric 
producers, it aims to improve skill-levels within 
Bangladeshi suppliers, service providers and textile 
consultants.
The programme aims to develop and test different 
cleaner production methodologies that improve water 
and energy use. The aim also is to establish benchmarks 
so that good and poor performance can be easily 
identified. The best methods will be developed into a best 
practice toolkit, which will help to promote the spread of 
cleaner production.
In addition to this, two different approaches to 
developing best practices will be explored:
1.  Peer-to-peer: suppliers will work with similar types 
of suppliers. These groups will gather to discuss their 
understanding and experiences of what has and has 
not worked with the cleaner production methods  
being tested.
2.  Consultant-led: advice and testing being driven by 
external consultants. The consultants being used are 
expert organisations in textile consulting and include 
NEC from Pakistan and Conquest from Tirupur in 
southern India.
At H&M, we plan to identify six vertically integrated 
suppliers for the project and pay a commitment fee for 
each supplier. Furthermore we are supporting the project 
through expertise and create contact to our key suppliers. 
Our next step for this project is to, in early 2010, identify 
key suppliers to work with on the project.Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT W ATER
PUBLIC POLICY
H&M is not currently engaged in any public policy work 
related to water.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Since 2002 we have supported the international NGO, 
WaterAid and support its water and sanitation projects in 
Asia and Africa. WaterAid works to provide safe, clean water, 
teaches communities about the importance of good hygiene 
practices and develops effective sanitation to prevent water-
related diseases. In 2009, we contributed SEK 4.6 m (USD 
640,000) to WaterAid. 
TRANSPARENCY
In 2009 we submitted our first COP-Water. The water section 
of this report forms our second COP-Water.
41Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
Everyone needs to do their part to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. We are no exception. We are finding ways to 
continuously improve energy efficiency and lower our carbon 
footprint across our operations.
COMMITMENT
In 2005, we committed to reduce our carbon footprint relative 
to sales by 10% by 2009, compared to a 2004 base year. We met 
this target and instead of 10% we achieved a reduction of 32%. 
 
Update
Our new target covering 2010–2012 performance, 
commits us to: 
Reduce H&M group’s carbon dioxide emissions relative 
to sales by a minimum of 5% per year compared to the 
previous year – from 2010 through to 2012.
In accordance with the Retail Declaration on Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy, within the framework of 
the European Retail Round Table (ERRT), we also commit to:
•  reduce energy consumption per square metre of 
commercial premises by a minimum of 20% by 2020 
compared to 2007
•  work towards exceeding the European Commission’s target 
of sourcing 20% renewable energy by 2020.
Read more about our new target and our performance (on 
page 46.
TRANSPORT
Approach
The size and geographical spread of our business requires 
different means of transport in various parts of the world.  
As our business grows, our transportation needs will increase 
further. The challenge is to meet our transportation needs 
with limited use of natural resources and as low emissions  
as possible. 
T ransporting with less impact on the environment involves 
working with environmentally sound transport companies 
42CARBON & ENERGY
and switching to rail or sea transport where possible and 
increasing our transport efficiency. 
All of H&M’s road transport providers must meet 
certain environmental criteria. Read about the current 
requirements www.hm.com/environment.
We aim for all our carriers in North America to become 
SmartWay certfified. SmartWay is a programme run by 
the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) offering 
certification to carriers. In order to be certified, carriers 
must set and meet environmental and fuel efficiency 
targets and commit to reporting emissions data on a 
yearly basis to the EPA.
In 2009, around 70% of our carriers were SmartWay 
certified.
Read more about SmartWay at www.epa.gov/smartway.
COLLABORATION ACTIONS
We recognise that addressing transport issues can 
sometimes be best achieved by collaborating with 
others, for example when developing environmental 
requirements for transport providers. 
In 2009, transport amounted to 51% of our carbon 
footprint. We took part in a number of initiatives to 
reduce the impact of transporting our goods. 
Clean Shipping Project
The Clean Shipping Project is aimed at improving the 
environmental performance of the shipping industry. 
Companies that are cargo owners or buy shipping 
services sign up to be members of the Clean Shipping 
Network. Read more about the Clean Shipping Project in 
a short interview on page 82.Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
43ERRT
H&M works in a collaborative way with members of the 
European Retail Round Table (ERRT). During 2009, we 
worked together to develop a tool for evaluating truck 
carriers’ environmental performance. Clean Shipping Project
The Clean Shipping Project is aimed at improving the 
environmental performance of the shipping industry. 
Companies that are cargo owners or buy shipping 
services sign up to be members of the Clean Shipping 
Network.  
The Clean Shipping Index is an environmental 
performance index made up of 20 environmental aspects 
relevant to shipping. Maritime transport service providers 
enter vessel specific data into a database creating a score  
which cargo owners can then use as one of several 
parameters to look at when purchasing transport services. 
The index covers the following categories:
• chemicals
• water, fuel and waste control
• CO2
• NOx
• SOx and PM (particulate matter).
H&M is part of the Clean Shipping Network and we have 
continued to work on improving the Clean Shipping 
Index and its use amongst our carriers. 
Update
In 2009, four of our six shipping carriers were registered 
in the index database. Two did not due to a lack of data. 
In 2010, we aim for all providers in the database.
Read more about the Clean Shipping Project at  
www.cleanshippingproject.se.CASE STUDY
Developing transport requirements within the ERRT
H&M works in a collaborative way within the ERRT. 
During 2009 we worked together to develop a tool for 
evaluating truck carriers’ environmental performance.
This web-based performance tool will initially be applied 
to all carriers in Europe (EU and T urkey), followed by 
Asia. Data gathered from these carriers will be used 
to determine a realistic minimum score requirement 
that will lead to an overall improvement in terms of 
environmental performance among our carriers.
Beginning in 2010, the minimum requirements we 
currently place on our contracted service providers will 
then be based on this tool.
The minimum requirements for Europe will then include 
that:
•  71–80% of truck carriers’ drivers must have received 
training in fuel-efficient driving.
•  T rucks carrying H&M goods must not be more than 
10 years old.
•  All nominated and potential truck service providers 
must have a CO2 reduction target that is accompanied 
with an action and follow-up plan.CASE STUDYStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
Environmental guidelines
In 2009, we distributed updated environmental guidelines 
for all our sales country organisations. These include among 
others guidelines and requirements on energy use and its 
measurement. In accordance with the Retail Declaration 
on Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, within the 
framework of the European Retail Round Table (ERRT), we 
commit to reduce energy consumption per square metre of 
commercial premises by 20% by 2020.
Environmental building specifications
For all newly built (275 in 2009) or refurbished stores, we have 
a number of environmental requirements in place. Several of 
them relate to energy efficiency. This includes requirements 
for escalators, elevators and store lighting. Read more about 
how we limit the energy use of store lighting in action. 
COMMITMENT
In accordance with the Retail Declaration on Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy, within the framework of 
the European Retail Round Table (ERRT), we commit to:
•  Reduce energy consumption per square metre of 
commercial premises by a minimum of 20% by 2020 
compared to 2007
•  Work towards exceeding the European Commission’s target 
of sourcing 20% renewable energy by 2020.
ACTION
In 2009, energy used in our stores, offices and distribution 
centres amounted to 42% of the carbon emissions within our 
operations and transport. We took a number of initiatives to 
improve our energy use.
Reducing energy use from store lighting
When stores are designed we have targets for the energy 
efficiency of our lighting. Depending on the design and 
concept of the store, we target either 30 or 40 watts per 
square metre. A few small changes resulted in big reductions:
•  Dimming of the 70W downlights and spotlights led to a 
15% reduction in their energy use.
•  Dimming all the light tubes installed behind our built out 
panels resulted in a 30% reduction in their energy use.TRAVEL
Approach
We have an updated travel policy in place since 2008. The 
policy since then includes more stringent environmental 
considerations than previously. 
Each manager is responsible for ensuring that these 
requirements are met in his or her department. This policy 
requires all employees travelling for business purposes to 
ensure that:
•  Each trip is well justified and cannot be replaced, for 
instance by a phone- or web-conference.
•  When choosing the place of a meeting, the distance 
travelled by all attendees and the accessibility by public 
transport is considered.
• Appropriate means of transport are used: 
•  T rains should be used for all journeys of less than 
600 km if sensible.
•  Public transportation should be used rather than taxis 
when this is available, safe and time permitting.
• Colleagues should always share cars wherever possible.
ACTION
For several years H&M also offers audio and web 
conferencing. During 2009 the external system was not 
promoted actively because we began testing with a new audio 
and web conferencing facility that has been built in-house. 
The new system is planned to be launched in 2010 and will 
replace our existing teleconference provider. The launch will 
then be accompanied by a communication campaign to make 
employees aware of the new system and promote its use.
STORES AND DIRECT OPERATIONS
Approach
Any construction related to H&M stores follows documented 
environmental requirements. We also provide our sales 
country organisations with environmental guidance. When 
new stores are designed we set targets for the energy 
efficiency of our lighting. 
44Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
•  Lowering the effect of the fitting room downlights from 
35W to 20W , a 50% reduction in their energy use.
•  Installing sensors in the fitting rooms to dim the light tubes 
behind the mirrors when they are not in use.
 
Update
Above requirements have been valid for all stores which 
are newly built or were refurbished in 2009. 
Distribution centres
In October 2008, we opened our largest distribution centre 
yet in Hamburg, Germany. When planning the facility, 
sustainable thinking was taken into account. For example, the 
roof has 5,300 square meters of solar panels. The H&M owned 
installation contributes renewable energy capacity to the grid. 
Estimated yearly electricity production from the installation 
is 480,000 kWh, which makes carbon dioxide reductions of 
up to 480 tonnes possible. The solar power plant is the largest 
of its kind in the Hamburg region. 
In 2010, we plan to build another large distribution centre 
and within that to incorporate further environmental 
measures. 
SUPPLY CHAIN  
Our goal is to understand where the main impacts arise across 
the life cycle of our products. To help understand the wider 
climate impact and carbon emissions of garments, we funded  
a Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) study in 2009. 
Overview
Our aim was to understand the wider climate impact and 
carbon emissions of garments. In particular H&M felt 
the need to identify priority areas for action or additional 
research required so that we can begin to reduce carbon 
emissions more widely than from our direct operations and 
transport alone.
BSR STUDY FINDINGS
Individual garment types have different emissions profiles, 
but the findings give an overall picture of the aggregate 
greenhouse gas emissions for clothing.AREAS OF HIGH CARBON INTENSITY
Garment use
Once a garment is produced, the energy used during its 
lifetime is the single most important contributor to its 
overall emissions profile. However, there are some interesting 
variations:
•  T umble drying is the single largest energy user and avoiding 
this will reduce emissions substantially.
•  Hand wash garments are likely to have lower use phase 
emissions.
•  The energy source (e.g. renewable or conventional energy) 
of machines used to launder garments can dramatically 
reduce emissions.
•  Several studies indicated that garments are often washed 
more than necessary and this increases emissions.
Raw materials
The fibre used in a garment’s fabric is the second most 
important contributor to emissions:
•  Synthetic fibres have a comparatively high emissions profile 
due to the energy needed to create their raw materials. 
However, synthetic fibres often hold less water so reducing 
the need for drying, which can be energy intensive if a 
tumble dryer is used.
•  Wool has comparatively high emissions due to the methane 
produced by sheep. However, wool garments often require 
dry cleaning or hand washing, which are the lower emission 
washing options during the garment’s life.
•  Plant fibres such as cotton and linen have comparatively 
low emissions, particularly linen because it requires fewer 
pesticides, fertiliser and irrigation than cotton. They do 
however retain more water and linen is more likely to be 
ironed which increases emissions.
Other factors include transport, which makes up only a 
small proportion of a garment’s total emissions. Most studies, 
however, assume that transport is mainly done by ship and 
factoring in airfreight will considerably increase emissions. 
Garment lifespan is another factor. A garment that is only 
washed a handful of times will have lower lifetime emissions 
than a garment washed hundreds of times. However, a short 
lifespan garment will have much higher emissions on a per 
wear basis.
45Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
It is interesting to note that our greenhouse gas reporting 
– for shipping and distribution and retail – is only a small 
segment of the life cycle carbon emissions of our products. 
This shows that we need to focus our attention on the supply 
side of our garments’ life cycle as well as with consumers who 
use energy during the use of our products.
Read more on how we advise consumers on garment care on 
page 54.
NEXT STEPS
The study results stress the need to further address the 
carbon emissions resulting from raw material production, 
garment manufacturing and garment use.
We are, however, realistic and finding the best ways to tackle 
this challenge will require further research and time. As 
a first step we have initiated first trials in gathering data 
from some selected and key suppliers. Based on this we are 
currently developing broader tools to be tested in 2010 and 
are accordingly looking into finding appropriate resource 
efficiency measures together with our suppliers. 
PERFORMANCE 
We monitor and measure energy use and carbon dioxide 
(CO2) emissions across our business. This includes emissions 
from energy use in our stores, distribution centres and offices, 
those caused by transportation of our goods, as well as our 
business travel and company-owned cars.
Our target between 2005 and 2009 has been to reduce CO2 
emissions by 10% relative to sales, using 2004 as baseline year. 
The data shows we have achieved and substantially exceeded 
this target.
We have developed a new target period for 2010–2012 
following an expanded data scope. More information can be 
found on page 47.
You can find further details on our carbon emissions in our 
annual response to the Carbon Disclosure Project at  
www.cdproject.net. CO2  EMISSIONS AND TARGET FOLLOW -UP
Our target has been to reduce CO2 emissions by 10% relative 
to sales until 2009, using 2004 as baseline year. We have 
exceeded this target and achieved a reduction of 32% instead.
As shown in the chart, in 2009 we emitted 2.63 tonnes of CO2 
per SEK m turnover compared to 3.84 tonnes of CO2 per 
SEK m turnover in our targets’ baseline year 2004. 
The total actual carbon dioxide emissions for 2009 were 
311,858 tonnes, an increase of 11% compared to 2008, while 
our turnover increased by 14%.
Compared to the baseline year 2004, total carbon emissions 
increased by 29% while our turnover increased by 88%.
Compared to 2008, significant reductions could be achieved 
in emissions resulting from business travel and fuels from 
company-owned cars, both in relative and absolute terms. 
Good relative reductions have been achieved in transports 
while emissions resulting from buildings (including energy 
use) increased.
STORES AND DIRECT OPERATIONS
Electricity use in our stores, offices and distribution centres 
as well as fuels and heating in our distribution centres lead 
to a total of 130,701 tonnes of carbon emissions. In total this 
is an increase of 27% compared to 2008 and accounts for 42% 
of our total emissions. Electricity use in the entire company 
increased by 9% in absolute figures compared to a turnover 
increase of 14%. This indicates an increased energy efficiency. 
However, changes in emission factors from electricity 
production have been a major contributor to increased 
emission figures. 
462004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
CO2 emissions 
(tonnes per  
SEK m sales 
including VAT)3.84 4.15 3.75 2.75 2.70 2.63
Target - - - - -3.45Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
TRANSPORT
T ransport emissions stand for 51% of the total carbon 
emissions. Total emissions resulting from transport increased 
compared to 2008 by 4%, while our turnover rose by 14%. 
There are a number of factors which have contributed to this 
relative reduction of which some are described below. 
Many shipments from production countries to sales countries 
by transit are made by truck. We focus on using transport 
solutions that include rail and sea transports and try to avoid 
air and truck transport wherever possible. 
In 2009, we reduced the number of shipments via our transit 
warehouse in Hamburg and instead shipped directly to the 
sales countries. Since 2008 we have decreased the volumes 
shipped by ocean and air via transit by 40%. 
By using a different type of transport on many of our 
transport routes, we have been able to make a saving in 
emissions. 
In 2009, our aim was to transport goods from T urkey to 
Germany, Poland and Belgium, countries where some of our 
major distribution centres are located, by rail in place of road. 
62% of the goods shipped from T urkey to Germany (one of 
our largest sales countries), were shipped by rail instead of 
truck (2008: 22%). For the routes between T urkey and Poland 
the share of rail went up to 87% in 2009 from 10% in 2008, on 
the route to Belgium from 0% to 52%. 
We also increased the share of goods shipped by rail from 
transit to sales countries from 44% to 60%, resulting in a 705 
tonnes decrease in the amount of CO2 emitted. 
In 2008, 100% of all shipments from T urkey to Hong Kong 
were done by air, in 2009 we decreased this by 26% resulting 
in 513 tonnes less CO2 emissions. 
TRAVEL
Business travel amounted to 6% of the total emissions in 2009. 
Total emissions resulting from this source decreased by 13% 
compared to 2008, while our sales (including VAT) increased 
by 14%. Total emissions resulting from fuels for company-
owned cars decreased by 7%. We believe this is a major result 
from the implementation of our revised travel policy. NEW TARGET 2010–2012
Our new target commits us to reduce H&M group’s carbon 
dioxide emissions relative to sales by a minimum of 5% per 
year compared to the previous year from 2010–2012. 
The main elements of the new target are:
•  Rolling baseline: our previous target had a 2004 baseline 
for the whole five-year target period. The new target has a 
rolling baseline, meaning that the baseline for emissions 
reductions will always be the previous year’s outcome.
•  Committed reductions: we are committed to achieving a 
minimum 5% reduction each year. If there is a shortfall 
in the year we will offset the shortfall in the target, so the 
baseline for the following year will always be at least 5% 
lower than the previous year. This is an important factor for 
pushing forward improvements in efficiency and reducing 
emissions. If we exceed the 5% target then the actual 
performance achieved will be used as a more ambitious 
baseline.
We will report on data relating to this new target with an 
expanded scope in line with the accounting and reporting 
guidelines of the World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). 
Shorter horizon
We decided to set the targets over a shorter time horizon than 
the previous one because in the next three years we expect 
to see a number of changes in global climate change policy, 
bringing more clarity to the framework of carbon regulation 
and incentives for market transformation to a low carbon 
economy. 
A short-term target period is also more tangible and 
immediate. We feel that it will keep up pressure internally to 
develop reduction initiatives sooner rather than later. 
47Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
SCOPE CO2E (TONNES) SHARE
1 11,951 3%
2 238,201 60%
3 148,007 37%
398,160 100%ENVIRONMENT CARBON & ENERGY
48EXPANDING THE SCOPE OF DATA
For 2010, we have established a new target and to go with 
this we have revised the methodology and boundaries of our 
greenhouse gas emissions reporting. For this reason we are 
reporting two sets of figures for 2009. One is like-for-like with 
previous years, to provide comparative data for our outgoing 
target and the second is based on our new expanded scope 
building the baseline for our new target period.
With the expanded scope our emissions reporting goes in 
line with the accounting and reporting guidelines of the 
World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG 
Protocol). 
The implication of the alignment with the GHG Protocol 
guidelines is an increase in our greenhouse gas emissions. 
Emission sources, which are additionally covered by our 
reporting include:
• Emissions from our COS, Monki and Weekday brands.
•  Emissions estimates for stores where we pay our landlord 
for electricity rather than having a direct contract with an 
electricity supplier.
•  Emissions estimates for CO2 equivalent data (CO2e) related 
other relevant greenhouse gases, namely methane (CH4), 
nitrous oxide (N20) and HFC that relate to leakage from air 
conditioning units.We report scope 1 emissions relating to our direct fuel use 
in our operations and company cars, which following these 
guidelines make up 3% of our total emissions. Scope 2 
emissions come from the purchase of electricity and heat for 
our stores, offices and distribution centres and make up 60% 
of our emissions. The remaining 37% are scope 3 emissions 
related to business travel and transport of our products. The 
total emissions according to this expanded scope make up 
398,160 tonnes CO2e, which equals 3.35 tonnes CO2e emitted 
per million SEK turnover.Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT RECYCLING & W ASTE
RECYCLING & W ASTE
49Waste is an important issue in H&M stores and distribution 
centres. Our environmental guidelines provide direction 
on recycling and how to handle waste including hazardous 
materials, such as fluorescent tube lights, batteries, electronic 
equipment, glues and other chemicals. 
APPROACH
Waste is an important issue in H&M stores and distribution 
centres. Our environmental guidelines among others 
provide guidance on how to handle waste in our stores and 
operations. 
Sales country organisations handle solid waste in a variety 
of ways, for example depending on the facilities individual 
stores have available to them. Some stores use the waste-
handling facilities of the shopping centre or landlord, others 
have separate waste handling contracts or return waste to our 
distribution centres. Unfortunately this provides a challenge 
for data gathering and we do not yet have consistent data 
for the whole business. But you can read about some major 
actions addressing issues of waste and recycling in our 
operations in this section.
ACTIONS
Mail order
We offer mail order and internet shopping in Sweden, 
Norway, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany and 
Austria. 
In 2009, all paper used in our mail order catalogues was 
manufactured by chain of custody certified mills and the 
majority of the fibre originated from certified forests. The 
paper also carries the eco-label of the European Union, the 
Flower, which stands for the environmental credentials of the 
paper. All printers used for catalogue printing are certified 
to the ISO14001 environmental management system. In 
addition, all of our mail order packaging boxes are made of 
cardboard with at least 60% recycled content.CONSUMER BAGS
We have conducted an in-depth life cycle analysis to 
determine the best environmental choice for our consumer 
bags. We have compared a range of bag materials, including 
virgin and recycled polyethylene (PE) plastic, paper, starch-
based plastic, oxi-bio plastic and cellulose based PE.
Perhaps surprisingly to some, the study showed that:
•  PE bags need less energy in production than many other 
options
•  PE bags use less space during transport, particularly 
compared to paper bags
•  PE bags are durable and can be reused
•  PE bags can be easily recycled
•  85% of PE’s embodied energy can be extracted when 
incinerated. 
 
Update
Based on the results, H&M considers recycled PE plastic 
to be the best available alternative. By using recycled PE, 
we can reduce the demand for virgin oil and increase the 
demand for recycled material. Recycled  
PE only uses 50% of the energy in production compared 
to virgin plastic production and can of course be  
recycled again.
As a result, we will launch a new recycled PE plastic bag 
in selected countries in early 2010, followed by remaining 
countries later in the year. Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
ENVIRONMENT RECYCLING & W ASTE
50STORE MATERIALS
In 2009, we changed our standard poster size in stores and 
now use poster frames that allow us to use printed paper 
instead of board. This resulted in a reduction of material 
use and waste of around 50%. We have also started to use 
sales materials that can be reused in more than one sales 
campaign. 
Update
In 2009, 79% of the hangers we used were sent for 
recycling. Most of the remaining hangers are reused  
in store.
 
SHOP FITTINGS
We have had standard requirements for shop fittings for 
several years. These state the materials that can and cannot 
be used from an environmental and health perspective. The 
suppliers that refurbish or build our stores must follow these 
requirements.PRODUCT PACKAGING
H&M constantly strives to find better packaging solutions 
using fewer resources and causing less waste. 
 
Update
As one example of how we worked about finding 
better packaging solutions for our products, in 2009 
our designers worked on new packaging for men’s 
boxer shorts. The new packaging uses 50% less material 
and therefore less energy, in both production and 
transportation. The packaging is now also fully recyclable 
and can easily be separated to make it easier for our 
customers to do so. And it also helps keeping our prices 
low by reducing packaging costs by over 60%. 
 
PAPER AND PRINTING
In order to understand our impacts better and identify where 
sustainable alternatives are required, we have analysed our 
2008 use of paper. 
We mapped the type of paper and paper products being 
used, their origin, and how they were produced. Paper use 
ranges from transport cartons, hang tags and gift boxes to 
office paper, receipt rolls, H&M magazine and our mail order 
catalogue. With this knowledge, in 2010 we will continue to 
assess where best to focus. 
In 2009, all printers at our head office and IT department 
have been set to double-sided printing as the default setting. Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PRODUCTS
OUR BUSINESS IS ABOUT OFFERING OUR CUSTOMERS 
FASHION AND QUALITY AT THE BEST PRICE. TO H&M, 
QUALITY INCLUDES MEETING OR EXCEEDING OUR 
CUSTOMERS’ EXPECTATIONS OF OUR PRODUCTS AND OF 
H&M AS A COMPANY . OUR CUSTOMERS DO NOT JUST W ANT 
PRODUCTS THAT LOOK GOOD, LAST WELL AND ARE SAFE TO 
USE – OUR PRODUCTS SHOULD ALSO BE MADE AND SOLD IN 
W AYS THAT DO NOT HARM PEOPLE OR THE ENVIRONMENT . 
51Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
H&M products should be practical, durable, well made, 
functional, safe and free from harmful chemicals.
In order to achieve this we continuously develop our routines 
and methods. Our challenge is to adapt our high quality 
standards to new fashions, products and market regulations – 
and for our products to remain affordable.
 
APPROACH
Our responsibility to our customers includes our activities 
and initiatives to ensure customers are safe and satisfied with 
our products. We focus on:
• improving the quality of our products
• ensuring product safety
• restricting the use of harmful chemicals.We follow the precautionary principle. As a minimum, we 
comply with all laws and the strictest regulations of our 
operating markets. This means that the strictest standards of 
all the countries in which we operate are the ones we apply 
to all our products, wherever they are sold. In some cases we 
go beyond this and apply even stricter standards.
Our product policy commits us to the following:
•  H&M children’s clothing should be comfortable and 
practical. H&M strives not to sell children’s clothing that 
might be perceived as provocative.
•  Prints on tops and other goods may not be offensive, racist, 
sexist, political or religious.
• All goods are labelled with their country of manufacture.
Read the full product policy in Performance.PRODUCTS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
52Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
All of our products have to meet the toughest quality 
regulations and standards. Even so, we are continuously 
looking for ways to make them better. 
APPROACH
Our customers expect our products to be practical,  
durable, well made, well fitting, functional, safe and free 
from harmful chemicals. 
To meet these expectations we continuously develop our 
methods and processes to improve the quality and design  
of our products. We have a strict quality assurance process in 
place that starts early in the product life cycle. Our product 
quality standards meet or exceed the strictest regulations  
in any of the countries where our products are sold. 
QUALITY ASSURANCE
For several years our lab teams have performed physical, 
chemical and safety tests. Today, we work increasingly on 
proactive quality assurance rather than routine testing. 
During 2009, we developed common methods for suppliers 
to take a more active role in quality assurance with their 
own labs, working to our standards. Our aim is for all major 
suppliers to operate their own quality assurance with good 
chemical management, early risk assessments and testing to 
identify potential quality risks.
Our local teams are responsible for doing follow-up checks to 
make sure suppliers are meeting our requirements. The teams 
are supported by a central function, where our common 
standards and requirements are developed.
Despite having a well-developed system for quality assurance 
and product safety, occasionally products that fall short of 
H&M’s standards reach our stores. We have a procedure in 
place to ensure that these products can be rapidly recalled. 
After an unsafe product has been identified, the quality 
department and production managers decide on a global 
recall. Sales are stopped immediately in all markets, and 
the relevant authorities are informed. Information is sent 
internally to colleagues and customers, through channels 
such as newspaper adverts, the internet and signs in store. PRODUCTS QUALITY
Our quality department then analyses what has occured in 
order to prevent it from happening again. 
  
Update
In 2009, we developed common methods for suppliers 
to take a more active role in quality assurance with their 
own labs, working to H&M standards. 
No products were recalled during the year.
 
Read more about our quality assurance tests on page 53.
CHILDREN’S SAFETY
Our aim is to offer the safest children’s garments in 
the market. This means that child safety is a vital factor 
throughout all stages of production. We educate our staff 
both at the buying office and in our production offices about 
children’s safety and potential product risks. 
We carry out a risk assessment to ensure that every product 
intended for children is safe, and check for any potential 
hazards, such as small parts, sharp edges and drawstrings  
or cords. 
We follow the laws and standards of whichever country  
of sale has the strictest regulations. Based on these laws we 
create specific guidelines and standards for our products,  
and share them internally and with our suppliers. 
We are active in European working committees where 
standards for the EU market are set. In these meetings we 
share our knowledge of retailing and textile production, 
and discuss safety issues with both authorities and other 
companies. 
 
Update
During 2009, the European working committee began 
working on a technical report with the aim to further 
improve the safety of children’s clothing. Initially, the 
focus will be on buttons and small parts. H&M took part 
in two EU meetings during the year.QUALITY
53Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PRODUCTS QUALITY
GARMENT CARE
The greatest share of a product’s lifetime energy consumption 
is in the customer’s washing at home. 
To make it easier for our customers we label our products 
with the highest permitted temperature. However, choosing 
to wash at a lower washing temperature saves energy – 
washing at 40°C uses around half as much energy as washing 
at 60°C and most detergents wash just as well at this lower 
temperature. H&M does recommend that heavily soiled 
clothes and underwear are always washed at the highest 
temperature allowed. 
We also provide tips about how customers can consider  
the environment when caring for their clothes. Read more  
at www.hm.com/care.
COSMETIC PRODUCTS
H&M requires that all H&M-branded cosmetic products are 
produced according to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) 
for cosmetics. GMP sets a defined level of the quality and 
safety of the production and the finished products. Since 
2007, there is also an ISO standard for cosmetic GMP . 
In late 2008, a new cosmetic legislation was adopted in 
the EU. Although effective in 2013, the legislation has 
strengthened the demands on the production and safety of 
cosmetic products. 
H&M also does not allow animal testing on cosmetic and 
hygiene products, either during production or on the finished 
products. Read more about animal welfare on page 35.
 
Update
We have started the process of meeting the new cosmetic 
legislation by requiring our suppliers to implement 
the GMP ISO standard. We aim to meet the legislative 
demands well before 2013.
54Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
CHEMICAL MANAGEMENTPRODUCTS CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
It can take a lot of chemicals to make clothes. We are working 
hard to limit the amount of harmful chemicals used for our 
products. Fewer harmful chemicals means less risk to the 
environment, the workers in our supply chain and of course 
our customers. 
APPROACH
Producing clothes can require intensive use of chemicals. 
We work to limit the use of harmful chemicals in all of our 
products for the sake of the environment and the safety of 
employees within our supply chain, our own employees  
and of course our customers.
Many chemicals are banned in our production processes  
and residues must not be present in finished garments. 
Others are allowed only below certain thresholds. 
These thresholds and bans are set out in our Chemical 
Restrictions list, which all suppliers must commit to comply 
with. The list has been updated ten times since 1995, most 
recently in 2009. 
QUALITY CONTROL  
OF SUBCONTRACTORS
The distances and locations of our Indian suppliers’ 
suppliers and subcontractors, such as dye mills, often 
made it hard for our quality control team to assess them 
as frequently as we would like. To deal with this challenge 
we trained our main suppliers to audit and report on their 
suppliers and subcontractors. 
The outcomes so far have been an increase in suppliers’ 
awareness and better compliance with our Chemical 
Restrictions.
POLICY & LEGISLATION
H&M’s strict Chemical Restrictions List and compliance with 
REACH legislation ensures that our products are safe and 
free from harmful chemicals. Some of our baby wear also 
bears the EU’s Flower eco-label. The Flower certifies that 
harmful substances have been limited and water pollution 
reduced across the whole production chain, from the raw 
cotton to the final product. CHEMICAL RESTRICTIONS
We restrict chemical substances that are environmentally 
hazardous or harmful to humans in all products through the 
H&M Chemical Restriction list. Our chemicals requirements 
are always based on the highest legal standard in any of our 
sales countries and often go further than the law demands. 
They are based on information from authorities, NGOs and 
scientific reports. 
All suppliers must comply with our Chemical Restrictions 
List. We educate, support and audit our suppliers to help 
them meet its requirements. 
 
Update
In 2009, we initiated a programme to phase out solvent-
based adhesives, when technically possible, from the 
manufacturing process, replacing it either with less 
harmful solvents or with water-based adhesives.
The Chemicals Restriction list now contains around 270 
restricted substances. In 2009, around 50,000 chemical 
tests were performed. We also fine-tuned our chemical 
test routine, which rewards suppliers for good chemical 
management. This led to better implementation rates.
Read our Chemical Restrictions list at www.hm.com.
REACH (REGISTRATION, EVALUATION, 
AUTHORISATION AND RESTRICTION  
OF CHEMICALS)
REACH is an important piece of legislation requiring that 
all chemical substances produced or imported in the EU 
are registered. We were an early supporter of the legislation, 
which came into force in 2007. 
The Substance Information Exchange Forum (SIEF) is a 
European Commission platform set up to help potential 
registrants of the same substance exchange information.  
All pre-registrants are expected to join together and prepare 
information for the final registration of the substance. In 2009 
we joined all relevant SIEF forums. 
55Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PRODUCTS CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
Under REACH, companies must notify the European 
Chemicals Agency when importing into the EU articles 
containing more than 0.1% of a Substance of Very High 
Concern (SVHC) and if the total amount of the SVHC 
imported exceeds one tonne per year. 
We continuously monitor the development of the SVHC list, 
Our Chemical Restrictions list includes all SVHCs relevant 
for our product range, and consequently we do not import 
any products that require notification. 
 
Update
As part of the REACH legislation, importers are required 
to respond within 45 days to a request from an EU 
customer to check if a product contains an SVHC above 
the 0.1% threshold. We have created guidelines and forms 
for all our European stores to help our colleagues handle 
these types of requests. During 2009, we responded to 
five customer requests.
 
FLOWER ECO-LABEL
We sell baby wear bearing the EU’s Flower eco-label. The 
Flower certifies that harmful substances have been limited 
and water pollution reduced across the whole production 
chain, from the raw cotton to the final product. As with all 
other H&M garments, babywear bearing the Flower label also 
complies with H&M’s own Chemical Restrictions. 
 
Update
In 2009, we sold 1,875,000 Flower-labelled garments, which 
is 34% more than the year before and over our target. 
We plan to continue with the use of the Flower eco-label. 
In 2010, we will begin using organic cotton in all of our 
Flower baby garments. Some of these garments will be 
made of 100% organic cotton and others will be made of 
an organic cotton blend. Read more about our use of raw 
materials on page 33 and about the Flower eco-label at 
www.eco-label.com.WORKING WITH OTHERS
Working together with regulatory authorities and other 
brands is an important part of our efforts to contribute to 
good chemical management within the textile industry. 
AFIRM COLLABORATION
H&M is a member of the steering committee of AFIRM, 
which is a multi-company forum that aims to advance the 
global management of restricted substances in the apparel 
and footwear supply chain.
During the year, the American Apparel and Footwear 
Association held two seminars about restricted chemicals, 
focusing on garments and footwear manufacturers in India. 
H&M presented at both seminars in Chennai and New Delhi. 
Other AFIRM projects during 2009 dealt with test methods, 
development of new seminar material and audit protocols. 
Read more about our position on restricted chemicals on 
page 55.
Read more about AFIRM at www.afirm-group.com.
CHEMICAL LEGISLATION  
IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
During 2009, we contributed to a course to improve chemical 
legislation and enforcement policies in developing countries. 
The course was jointly organised by the Swedish Chemicals 
Agency and the Swedish International Development 
Cooperation Agency. 
Participants worked at relevant authorities in their home 
countries and came to Sweden for a few weeks to study 
chemical legislation and management. The intention was 
that they return home with the knowledge to influence their 
own countries to enforce better practices, helping to raise 
chemical management to a safe and well-controlled level.
56Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PRODUCTS CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
57LEATHER WORKING GROUP
Leather products have a relatively high environmental 
impact, for instance due to the use of polluting chemicals 
in the tanning process. In 2009, we joined the Leather 
Working Group, which promotes sustainable and appropriate 
environmental business practices within the footwear leather 
industry. The group consists of suppliers, retailers, NGOs and 
other stakeholder organisations. 
Read more about the Leather Working Group at  
www.blcleathertech.com/blc_Leather_Working_Group.aspx.
PHASING OUT  
SOLVENT -BASED ADHESIVES 
Due to their inherent harmful properties, it is our aim to 
phase out the use of solvent-based adhesives in shoes and 
bags when technically possible. 
This will significantly improve working conditions in 
factories and reduce the impact the production has on  
the environment. 
 
Update
During 2009, we worked together with chemical 
manufacturers, producers of adhesives and accessory, 
bag and shoe suppliers to identify the possibilities to 
substitute solvent-based adhesives with a water-based 
alternative. Several tests and trials were made with 
satisfactory results. An example of a reduction of volatile 
organic compounds (VOC) in one of our shoe styles, is 
that converting to a water-based adhesive reduced the 
VOC content by 65%.
Starting 2010, more products made with water-based 
adhesives will be available in our stores. Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
EMPLOYEES
PEOPLE MAKE OUR BUSINESS. BEING A RESPONSIBLE 
COMPANY HELPS US ATTRACT AND RETAIN THE TALENT 
WE NEED TO FULFIL OUR BUSINESS GOALS. IN RETURN, WE 
OFFER A WORKPLACE WHERE OUR CO-WORKERS CAN BE 
THEMSELVES AND WHERE THEIR INITIATIVES COUNT .
58Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
We employ 76,000 people in 35 countries. But no matter 
where they are in the world, all our people should expect the 
same things: a culture of respect for the individual, and a safe 
and healthy working environment.
We are a value-driven company and we strive to apply this 
to everything we do. This includes our approach to our 
employees and can be a challenge as we operate in many 
countries with different cultures and values. 
Our colleagues are a major factor in our success, profitability 
and growth. By 30 November 2009, we employed 75,613 
people (53,476 full-time equivalent). To match our growth 
plans, our recruitment needs will continue to be sizeable in 
the years to come. In support of this, in 2009 we improved 
our recruitment page on the H&M website. 
OUR VALUES
The H&M culture is based on a number of values that 
describe in simple terms how we strive to work.
We believe in people and their ability to act on their own 
initiative, who test the boundaries and have the courage to 
put forward their ideas. These are the very same values on 
which H&M was once founded. Being straightforward and 
showing team spirit is encouraged, as well as common sense 
and cost-consciousness – and not least, keeping it simple and 
avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy.
H&M believes that a value-driven business structure will 
allow us to grow while maintaining a lean organisation. 
Furthermore, we have a strong belief that our values attract 
and retain the right people and this contributes to our 
success. 
We give our colleagues the opportunity to grow and develop 
within H&M, providing training wherever possible. We 
want our employees to feel that H&M is a place where their 
personality is valued and they can develop themselves. 
One of our challenges is to maintain our culture whilst 
operating in many countries. At the same time, we believe  
that we can find people that are right for H&M anywhere –  
it is a matter of finding the right individual and personality. 
We continue to focus on maintaining the H&M culture, for 
example by holding different workshops and training, but the 
most important thing is that everyone at H&M leads  
by example. Update
In 2009 we implemented our global employee policies 
on discrimination and equality, and diversity – minimum 
standards that apply wherever we work. The aim of 
these policies is not to replace the local approach, but 
to provide a baseline standard for all of the countries 
we operate in. We also worked on a globally applicable 
grievance procedure for employees. Read the full policies 
on discrimination and equality, and diversity the Policies 
section.
GROWING TOGETHER
As a company that strives to be responsible and at the 
forefront of sustainability, this also helps us attract and retain 
motivated employees who can support the growth of H&M. 
Our business target is to increase our number of stores by  
10 – 15% per year with continued high profitability. To meet 
this goal, it is essential that we attract enough talent  
to support our growth. 
In 2009, we improved our global job site on hm.com to 
provide information on our approach and opportunities. We 
do not have standardised career plans, but prefer to respond 
to individual needs and interests so that we are able to find 
a good fit between the individual and the position. Through 
our recruitment section we are able to provide an insight into 
what working at H&M is like. 
At H&M, we often recruit internally, and store experience can 
offer our existing employees a way into the other business 
units of the company. When we do recruit from outside of 
H&M, it is common that employees receive in-store training. 
Our recruitment site helps to clarify expectations that 
prospective employees may have.
In 2010, we are looking to build on our recruitment process 
by looking for best practices in different H&M markets and 
to streamline our approach. APPROACHEMPLOYEES APPROACH
59Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PERFORMANCE
Key statistics on our workforce are detailed below: 
Full-time and part-time employees
Full-time employees: 45%  
Part-time employees: 55%
Employment contract type
Permanent employment contract: 83%  
Temporary employment contract: 17%
Ratio of salary between women and men 
Store Managers: 0.92  
Store Department Managers: 0.95  
Visual Merchandisers: 0.94  
Sales Advisors: 0.97  
Warehouse employees: 0.95EMPLOYEES APPROACH
60Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENTEMPLOYEES TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
Our employees are a major factor in our success. We provide 
them with the tools and training they need to develop and 
grow together with H&M. 
T raining and development continues throughout an H&M 
employee’s career and is supported by an annual performance 
review that identifies possibilities for further progression and 
associated training and development needs. Managers in stores 
or other internal trainers carry out most of our training.
APPROACH
When our employees develop, H&M develops. Managers 
in stores or other internal trainers carry out most of our 
training. Yearly performance reviews for all employees are a 
common practice. 
 
Update
The average number of training days per employee in 
our sales organisation in 2009 was approximately 10 days 
for new sales staff and 40–80 days for new management. 
These figures refer to both theoretical and practical 
training. The average number of training days for existing 
sales staff was 2.25 and 0.5 days for existing management 
positions.
Our training structure is based around mandatory and non-
mandatory training that is relevant to all H&M operations 
globally. There are also several different national and local 
training courses that aim to meet employees’ and country-
specific needs. 
In addition to the global induction training modules that 
every employee needs to complete, there are individual 
induction training modules for certain tasks tailored to the 
role, such as for store managers, floor managers and visual 
merchandisers. 
These training modules cover knowledge such as: what 
it means to be good retailers; staff development; garment 
presentation; and controlling. Allied to these, there are a 
number of non-mandatory global training modules. H&M  
also offers training courses at national level that are tailored to each country’s specific needs. In total, our sales 
organisation works with 67 different training modules. 
INDUCTION TRAINING
Our employee’s training experience begins from the day  
they join us. H&M’s mandatory induction training consists  
of different subjects, such as:
• an introduction to H&M
• garment handling and care
• security
• customer service
• textiles and
• sustainability.
H&M has identified three key methods of delivering training 
successfully which follow a set format: offsite in a classroom 
environment in new countries; in groups in-store; and 
individual in-store training.
During 2010 we will continue to focus on ensuring that every 
new employee receives our induction training. We strive to 
make relevant training tools more accessible for the right 
target groups and will focus on managers, including floor and 
store managers. 
E-LEARNING
In 2008, H&M set up a pilot e-training initiative in Spain, 
Sweden and the UK. This continued in 2009 in these 
countries and also in Italy. 
Comparing traditional training methods for new sales staff 
with the 4.5 hours’ training provided in the form of the 
e-learning pilot has proved that e-learning is more favourable. 
Our 2009 tests have shown that e-learning is a useful tool 
if tailored and used in the correct way. They also showed 
that mentors are needed to follow up on training with 
staff to discuss how to apply the knowledge gained and to 
understand our values in day-to-day work. 
61Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
To date, more than 2,000 people have completed the 
training. The e-learning pilot will continue in 2010 to help 
us assess whether we can implement this type of training  
in other countries. 
CUSTOMER SERVICE TRAINING
In 2009 H&M rolled out a global training initiative on 
customer service for all sales employees in stores. The 
purpose of this training was to improve their customer service 
skills and build on their knowledge of campaign products. 
The training consists of two parts and is integrated into daily 
morning meetings in store. These are: customer service-
focused training; and pre-campaign training. 
The customer service-focused training is provided during 
the 15-minute morning meeting for all employees in every 
store, six days a week throughout the year. Every other week 
the morning meetings also cover pre-campaign product 
information. 
In some stores we have already seen positive results. In 2010 
this initiative will continue and will also cover challenging 
customer situations. 
JOB ROTATION
H&M encourages on-the-job learning. T rying different tasks 
and roles also presents a good opportunity for our colleagues 
to develop. 
Stores and warehouses
In-store job rotation may mean that a person’s duties vary 
from customer service, the cash desk and fitting rooms 
through to visual display and the follow-up of advertising  
and campaigns.
Warehouse employees also alternate between different  
tasks, for instance unloading, counting, labelling and  
loading garments. EMPLOYEES TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
Cross store
When new stores are opened either in existing sales countries 
or in new markets, the new employees are supported by more 
experienced co-workers. This can take the form of colleagues 
from established H&M countries supporting a new store 
for a period before, during and after opening. Alternatively, 
individuals or groups of colleagues from new countries or 
stores may receive training in an existing established market. 
TRAINING ON SUSTAINABILITY  
As part of our shared responsibility strategy, it is important 
that everyone at H&M understands how we want to do 
business and how we integrate social and environmental 
concerns into our decision-making. We offer basic training  
on sustainability as part of our training at H&M. 
 
Update
We regularly use employee engagement channels, such as 
the H&M intranet and our employee magazine, Wallpaper, 
to provide information to our people on our approach to 
sustainability issues. In 2009, we published the second 
sustainability issue of Wallpaper.
Sustainability is part of our employees’ induction training, 
including store staff. We also provide information on current 
topics to our staff so that they are up to date and able to 
respond to customer enquiries. Many of our sales countries 
also use our CSR film, which was introduced in 2008 for  
this training.
62Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
EQUALITY & DIVERSITYEMPLOYEES EQUALITY & DIVERSITY
We are a global company, as are our policies and values. We 
are committed to providing equal opportunities to all our 
employees and potential employees, wherever we operate in 
the world. 
COMMITMENT  
Our priority is to seek highly motivated and outgoing 
team players who look for personal growth and possess an 
entrepreneurial spirit. We feel that a diverse team of employees 
who have these attributes is essential to our success. 
We aim to make working at H&M equally accessible and have 
policies in place to guide this approach.
POLICIES
H&M’s discrimination and equality policy is based on the 
ILO convention (C111 Discrimination). In addition to 
this, we also have a global diversity policy. Our policies are 
communicated to all employees through channels such as 
staff handbooks and Welcome to H&M folders. 
Read more about discrimination and equality, and diversity in 
the Policy section.  PERFORMANCE
At H&M the majority of our colleagues are women and they 
are well represented in management positions. The share of 
women holding positions of responsibility is as follows:
Board of Directors (including two employee representatives, 
excluding two deputy employee representatives): 56% female, 
44% male  
Group Level Management (including CEO): 38% female,  
62% male  
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male  
Production Office Managers: 46% female, 54% male  
Buying Office Division Heads: 57% female, 43% male  
Buying Office Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male  
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male  
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male  
Total management positions: 77% female, 23% male  
Total workforce: 81% female, 19% male. 
63Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
At H&M, we believe in being straightforward and apply the 
open door principle, which gives every employee the right 
and opportunity to discuss work-related issues directly with 
management. All of our employees also have the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining.
APPROACH
Across all of our operations, around 67% of H&M employees 
are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We strive 
for good relations with all our employees and the employee 
associations and trade unions that represent them. As of 2009, 
our Employee Relations department is part of our Human 
Resources department. Employees are represented at Board 
level, with two of the nine Board members being employee 
representatives. 
EUROPEAN WORKS COUNCIL (EWC)
H&M first signed an agreement with the EWC in 1997 and 
this was amended in 2007. H&M and UNI-Europa are signing 
parties to the agreement. 
 
Update
In 2009 there were 11 employee representatives from 
Austria, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden 
and Finland.DIALOGUE & EMPLOYEE RELATIONSEMPLOYEES DIALOGUE & EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Meetings between management and all representatives are held 
on an annual basis and with EWC’s select committee twice 
a year. Topics discussed in 2009, focused on: health & safety, 
paying particular attention to distribution centres; measures 
to support aging employees within the workforce; and a good 
balance between part-time and full-time employees.
UNION NETWORK INTERNATIONAL (UNI)
Our Global Framework Agreement with UNI declares that 
both parties regard the International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 
to be the cornerstone for our cooperation. Our main contact 
point for this agreement is the Swedish Commercial Workers 
union, Handels, which is a member of UNI.
64Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
COMMUNITIES
OUR OPERATIONS TOUCH COMMUNITIES IN MANY 
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES. SUPPORTING THESE 
COMMUNITIES IS THEREFORE AN IMPORTANT PART OF 
OUR RESPONSIBILITY . IN THE LONG TERM, INVESTING IN 
THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE WORK CAN ALSO HELP OUR 
OPERATIONS BECOME MORE SUSTAINABLE.
In 2009, our community investments amounted to more than SEK 34.1 m 
(USD 4.7 m).  
65Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
It is important that we contribute to positive and sustainable 
change in the communities around us. Our efforts should be 
focused, efficient and sustainable and have a clear connection 
to our business, and to our stakeholders’ and society’s needs. 
FOCUS AREAS
We focus our efforts on three areas; education and 
employment of women and youth, water and innovation 
of sustainable textile materials. This way, we can work with 
issues where we genuinely have an opportunity to make a 
difference. 
Our community investment work builds on three 
complementary pillars; community partners, community 
projects and community support. Through those pillars, 
we can work holistically and meet the diverse needs of the 
communities where we operate. 
The types of activities we carry out include community 
projects, cause-related marketing campaigns and donations 
of money and clothes to selected charity organisations. We 
also support communities by providing emergency relief in 
case of major catastrophes. 
POLICY
Community investments refer to all activities that we carry 
out from a philanthropic perspective such as community 
projects, cause-related marketing campaigns and donations of 
money and clothes to charity organisations. We have a policy 
that guides the investments we make. Read our Community 
Investment Policy in the Policies section.APPROACHCOMMUNITIES APPROACH
66 Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
PROJECTSCOMMUNITIES PROJECTS
Supporting projects in the communities where H&M works 
is a cornerstone of our community investments. It is through 
our projects that we can work practically to address crucial 
issues and contribute to positive and sustainable change. 
Here you can read about our new projects, and the projects 
we have continued to work on. 
ALL FOR CHILDREN
We take a clear stand against all use of child labour and are 
working closely with UNICEF to address this issue. For some 
time, our cooperation with UNICEF has focused on children 
in cotton-producing areas in India. 
H&M does not purchase cotton directly and therefore we 
are not able to impose demands on cotton and cottonseed 
producers. However, by cooperating with UNICEF we 
can help address the causes of child labour and improve 
conditions. 
In 2007 and 2008, UNICEF conducted a study commissioned 
by H&M to research the social conditions of children in two 
cotton-producing areas in the state of Tamil Nadu in India. 
Around 1.2 million children live in these areas and there is 
a history of child labour due to a variety of factors such as 
poverty, lack of education and low awareness of children’s 
rights. 
 
Update
Following the study in June 2009, we launched the All for 
Children project together with UNICEF . This is our most 
ambitious community initiative to date. We aim to combat 
the root causes of child labour in cotton cultivation and 
improve the situation of children in two districts in Tamil 
Nadu. The five-year project is supported with a SEK 40 m 
(USD 4.5 m) donation from H&M and run by UNICEF . It 
is focused on five specific areas: 
• addressing child protection policies and structures
• education
• community mobilisation
• social protection 
• health and nutrition services.Throughout the five-year period H&M will launch various 
products in support of All for Children. Of the sales 
generated, we will contribute 30% to this project. Customers 
and other stakeholders can find regular updates and 
background information to the initiative through a dedicated 
website (www.hm.com/allforchildren).
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION IN CAMBODIA
Although HIV prevalence in Cambodia is declining, it is  
still high in urban areas and the epidemic is increasingly 
affecting women. H&M has been supporting UNICEF’s  
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care programme in Cambodia, 
which aims to reduce the transmission of HIV among young 
people and high-risk groups. The project includes activities 
such as health promotion sessions, a national HIV hotline 
and HIV testing services.
Some of the project activities are especially targeted at young 
women in the garment industry, which is one of the high-risk 
groups identified in the programme. H&M has used its access 
to the factories to help UNICEF reach young female garment 
workers. 
 
Update
During the year, almost 50,000 young students benefited 
from HIV-related life skills education. Also, more than 
37,000 people including women and children were tested 
for HIV .
Within the frame of the factory programme, more than 
530 peer educators were trained in the 12 factories in 
the programme. 4,620 female factory employees received 
HIV and life skills education through peer educators, 
and around 82,000 workers were reached through health 
promotion sessions conducted in the factories. Six of 
the factories established HIV workplace committees to 
ensure the sustainability of this initiative.
67Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
COMMUNITIES PROJECTS
Update
In 2009 we expanded our WaterAid swimwear collection 
to include swimwear for children and men, as well as 
women, and were able to raise more than SEK 4.6 m 
(USD 640,000) for WaterAid. 
We decided that this year’s donation should support 
WaterAid’s projects in three countries where our 
products are made: Bangladesh, India and Pakistan. The 
donations to India and Bangladesh will support specific 
programmes. We have not taken this approach in Pakistan 
as WaterAid is not yet well established there. 
Bangladesh
In Bangladesh, our donation (SEK 2.2 m, USD 310,000) 
will support WaterAid’s three-year Advancing Sustainable 
Environmental Health project. The project focuses on 
the slums of Dhaka, Bangladesh’s capital city: to help 
communities manage water supplies, promote hygiene 
education, raise awareness and to campaign for community 
rights to access to sanitation and safe water. Targets include 
helping over 4,500 people gain access to safe water and 
sanitation and aiding 2,000 households to better manage solid 
waste.
India
The donation to India (SEK 1.8 m, USD 250,000) will 
support WaterAid’s Country Programme and two water and 
sanitation projects in the Nalanda and Saharsa districts in 
the state of Bihar. In these districts WaterAid will help the 
local community plan and manage safe water and sanitation 
services and make them better prepared for floods and their 
potential effects on water, sanitation and health services. 
Pakistan
In Pakistan, our donation (SEK 580,000; USD 80,000) will 
support WaterAid’s Country Programme which aims to 
develop the skills of local organisations and communities to 
plan and manage projects independently. 
H&M TRAINING CENTRE, DHAKA
In 2009, our T raining Centre in Dhaka, Bangladesh, 
celebrated its tenth anniversary of training young people to 
become sewing and knitting machine operators. FASHION AGAINST AIDS
In 2008, H&M and Designers Against AIDS (DAA), along with 
well-known designers, musicians and artists, joined forces to 
launch a fashion collection called Fashion Against Aids (FAA). 
The aim was to increase awareness about HIV/AIDS among 
youth and 25% of sales were donated towards HIV/AIDS 
prevention projects.
So far, the FAA initiative has raised a total of SEK 31.4 m 
(USD 4.3 m). In 2008, we donated SEK 15 m (USD 2 m) from 
sales to DAA and YouthAIDS in support of their HIV/AIDS 
prevention projects. DAA has primarily invested the money in 
their International HIV/AIDS Awareness Education Centre 
(IHAEC) in Antwerp, Belgium. The centre will train students 
in running HIV/AIDS awareness projects by using pop 
culture and media elements. YouthAids has used the funds  
in an urban youth centre in Port-au-Prince, Haiti and an  
HIV/AIDS and drug prevention programme for high-risk 
youth in Yekaterinburg, Russia.
 
Update
In 2009, we followed up on the success of the first 
FAA campaign with another collection. Sold in all of 
our markets (except the Middle East), the  collection 
generated a total of SEK 16.4 m (USD 2.2 m).
In order to expand the reach of the donation, we added 
two more organisations to the beneficiaries list – MTV’s 
Staying Alive Foundation and UNFPA. The donation 
to MTV’s Staying Alive Foundation will support 20 
grants awarded to young people involved in HIV/AIDS 
awareness, education and prevention campaigns. UNFPA 
will direct the donation to its Y -Peer programs in T urkey, 
Egypt, Bahrain and Oman with the aim to educate young 
people in the areas of sexual reproductive health and 
HIV/AIDS.
W ATERAID
WaterAid is an international NGO that works to improve 
access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the world’s 
poorest communities. We have supported WaterAid since 
2002 by selling a specially designed bikini. Of the sales 
generated, 10% have been donated to WaterAid’s water and 
sanitation projects. 
68Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
COMMUNITIES PROJECTS
Denmark
During Breast Cancer Awareness Month in October 2009, our 
Danish stores sold special breast cancer awareness bracelets 
to raise money and awareness. The entire sales of the 
bracelets were donated and generated a total of SEK 440,000 
(USD 63,000) which was donated to Kræftens Bekæmpelse to 
support breast cancer research. 
Spain and Portugal
To support the fight against breast cancer we sold a specially 
designed ladies bag in March 2009. The bag cost EUR 9.90 
and was sold in all our stores in Spain and Portugal. We 
donated the entire profit of SEK 100,000 (USD 12,000) to the 
Spanish Association Against Cancer and SEK 19,000 (USD 
2,300) to the Volunteer Association for Breast Cancer (Laço) 
in Portugal. 
US
In July 2009 we conducted a customer donation initiative 
that generated about SEK 670,000 (USD 93,000) for the 
American Cancer Society in support of Hope Lodges. The 28 
Hope Lodges offer cancer patients and their families a free, 
temporary place to stay when available treatment is distant 
from their homes. Customers contributed to the campaign by 
making voluntary donations at the cash registers. 
In October 2009, 622 of our US staff joined customers for 
51 Making Strides Against Breast Cancer walks throughout 
the US. Making Strides events are community-based breast 
cancer fundraising and awareness walks. Teams of walkers 
come from thousands of corporations, hospitals, schools and 
community organisations throughout the US. Our customers, 
staff, their friends and family raised more than SEK 1.1 m 
(USD 154,000) for the American Cancer Society, including 
SEK 210,000 (USD 30,000) directly from H&M. 
H&M’S ANNIVERSARY FOUNDATION
Jubileumsstiftelsen (H&M’s Anniversary Foundation), set up 
in connection with our 60th anniversary in 2007, supports 
projects aimed at improving the quality of life for people in 
the countries H&M operates in. 
Hand in Hand
In 2009 the foundation continued to support Hand in 
Hand, a charitable trust active in Tamil Nadu, India. Hand 
in Hand’s objective is to eradicate extreme poverty with a 
focus on education, employment, income generation and Each year the centre admits 100 students. T raining lasts four 
months and is conducted by experienced instructors. As 
well as technical skills, the students are also taught life skills 
and about workers’ rights through role-playing and lectures. 
At the end of the training, students are guaranteed a job at 
selected H&M suppliers. 
 
Update
Since the T raining Centre was founded, 23 training courses 
have been run in Dhaka, with a total of 1,042 graduates.
We aim to encourage similar initiatives by openly sharing the 
concept and our experiences with NGOs, other organisations 
and of course our suppliers.
WOMEN IN RETAIL PROGRAMME,  
SAUDI ARABIA
Following the opening of our first store in Saudi Arabia in 
2008, we collaborated with our franchise partner Alshaya, 
which runs all H&M stores in the country, to set up a retail 
training programme for women in the city of Jeddah. 
The programme aims to promote female employment in 
Saudi Arabia and increase the opportunities for women to 
work in the Saudi retail sector. It will provide women with the 
necessary knowledge and experience to work in a retail store. 
Students who successfully complete the college-based 12-
week course will be offered a job, either at H&M or at other 
Alshaya retail outlets in Saudi Arabia.
The Women in Retail programme has been delayed in 2009. 
We aim to start the programme in 2010.
CANCER AW ARENESS CAMPAIGNS
Cancer is a major concern in many of the countries where we 
operate. As many of our customers and employees are women, 
breast cancer is one of H&M’s particular concerns.
In collaboration with national organisations, we have carried 
out activities in several of our sales countries to raise cancer 
awareness among H&M staff and customers.
69Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
COMMUNITIES PROJECTS
competition to design the bag’s artwork was won by Steven 
Pham, a sales advisor from our Pacific Centre location. From 
each bag sold, 25% of sales went towards the programme.
In 2009 we sold 2,099 bags through our retail stores, and 
doubled this amount by holding local sample sales. In total, 
more than SEK 164,000 (USD 23,000) was raised. 
H&M collaborates with UNICEF Finland
Around Christmas 2009 our 38 Finnish stores and UNICEF 
arranged the ‘A euro for UNICEF’ campaign to raise funds 
for UNICEF’s global work to protect the rights of children. 
Participating customers donated a euro or more at the 
cash registers points when paying for their purchases. The 
campaign was well received by customers, raising more than 
SEK 1 m (USD 140,000). 
H&M collaborates with UNICEF Sweden 
H&M Sweden has worked with UNICEF since 2004. In 2009 
our Swedish stores collaborated on a spring and Christmas 
campaign. In addition to this we also run a continuous 
‘Round Up’ campaign that enables customers to make a direct 
donation to UNICEF at the cash registers when shopping in 
store.
Spring campaign – ‘Buy the UNICEF pin’
The UNICEF spring campaign started 1 April and ended on 
1 May with the UNICEF Comedy Gala broadcast on TV . The 
purpose of the campaign was to raise money for UNICEF by 
selling a UNICEF pin badge in H&M stores for SEK 20. 
Christmas – ‘Buy the perfect Christmas gift – polio vaccine’
The UNICEF Christmas campaign in Swedish stores focused 
on selling the perfect Christmas gift – 48 doses of polio 
vaccine for children around the world who need it the most, 
for SEK 49.50. Customers were able to buy this in the form of 
a gift card to give to friends or family, and UNICEF ensured 
the polio vaccine was given to children in need. 
This year, the Spring and Christmas campaigns, combined 
with the year-long ‘Round Up’ campaign generated a total of 
SEK 2.34 m (USD 330,000), a record for H&M Sweden. empowerment. To achieve this, the trust is implementing 
an integrated community development programme, which 
includes activities such as establishment of citizen centres, 
self-help groups, medical camps and facilitating access  
to credit. 
 
Update
The Anniversary Foundation’s donation of SEK 1.8 m  
(USD 250,000) in 2009 went towards the Integrated 
Community Development Programme in ten villages in 
Tamil Nadu.
Among the many successes from last year was the 
establishment of 11 evening class centres to help children 
complete their education. A total of 317 women were 
taught to read and 22 free medical camps were held.
Read more about Hand in Hand at www.handinhand.nu.
Save the Children Sweden
In 2009 the Anniversary Foundation began a three-year 
commitment, with a contribution of SEK 2.195 m (USD 
310,000), to support a new Centre for Child Rights and 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) in China, set up 
by Save the Children Sweden.
The centre helps Chinese and foreign businesses in and 
around China implement an approach to children’s rights. 
Activities at the centre cover research and analysis, capacity 
building, training and workshops, and consultancy.
Our support will help with the development and running 
of the centre’s English and Chinese website and hotline. 
The hotline will provide the best portal for information on 
business and children’s rights in China. 
FURTHER SUPPORT FOR UNICEF
H&M collaborates with UNICEF Canada
In autumn 2009, H&M Canada partnered with UNICEF 
Canada to raise funds and awareness for the Kenya Girls 
Scholarship Programme. This programme aims to help girls 
from rural and nomadic communities in northeastern Kenya 
complete their high school education and go to university.
The focus of the campaign was an organic cotton bag sold 
in selected stores across Canada for CAD 12.95. An internal 
70Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
COMMUNITIES PARTNERS
Some of the challenges we face in the communities where we 
work are complex and not always something we can manage 
on our own. This is why we have chosen to partner with 
selected organisations that can help us to address these issues 
and achieve results that we alone cannot.
UNICEF
H&M entered into a partnership with UNICEF in 2004. 
UNICEF works with families, communities and governments 
worldwide to protect and promote the rights of all children. 
Since the beginning of its partnership with UNICEF , H&M has 
made annual donations to the organisation. Amongst other 
issues, we have contributed to girls’ education, HIV/AIDS 
prevention in Cambodia and children’s rights in Uzbekistan. 
H&M has also supported UNICEF’s disaster relief work on 
several occasions.
 
Update
Together with UNICEF , we set up the All for Children 
project, a new five-year partnership to improve the 
conditions for children in cotton-producing areas in 
southern India. 
In 2009, UNICEF received a total of around SEK 7.6 m 
(USD 1.1 m) from H&M for all projects.
Read more about UNICEF at www.unicef.org and about 
All for Children at www.hm.com/allforchildren.PARTNERS
W ATERAID
WaterAid is an international NGO that works to give the 
world’s poorest people access to safe water, sanitation and 
hygiene education.
Our support of WaterAid dates back to 2002. Every year, we 
design an exclusive bikini range with a 10% contribution to 
WaterAid per item sold. 
Since the start of the partnership, H&M has raised more than 
SEK 14.4 m (USD 2 m) for WaterAid’s water and sanitation 
projects, primarily in Bangladesh, where some of H&M’s 
clothing is produced. This enables H&M to both support  
and have a direct impact on improving the lives of many 
people in the local community. 
Read more about WaterAid at www.wateraid.org.
71Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
COMMUNITIES SUPPORT
Update
In 2009, H&M donated around 500,000 garments to local 
aid organisations like Helping Hands, the Red Cross and 
Caritas. 
During the year, we also began reviewing our routines for 
handling clothes donations to ensure that as many items 
as possible reach those who need them.
SWEDEN – HELPING HANDS
H&M has an agreement with Helping Hands, an independent 
voluntary aid organisation. Helping Hands collects returned 
garments from some of our Swedish stores and distribution 
centre, and leftover samples from our Head Office, and sends 
them to people in need in other countries. 
Around 72,000 garments were donated during 2009. An important part of our community investment work 
is to provide support in times of crisis. In cases of major 
catastrophes, H&M makes direct contributions to emergency 
relief efforts and humanitarian aid. In addition to this, H&M 
regularly donates clothes to victims of war and natural 
disasters, and to other people in need.
DISASTER RELIEF
In April 2009, an earthquake occurred in L’Aquila in central 
Italy, leaving more than 200 people dead and 1,500 people 
injured. Following the catastrophe, H&M Italy donated SEK 
100,000 (USD 13,000) to UNICEF’s relief and recovery efforts. 
DONATIONS OF GARMENTS
Each year H&M donates large quantities of clothes to aid 
organisations in countries we operate in. This includes 
samples and clothes that do not comply with H&M’s quality 
requirements. We do not, however, give away clothes that do 
not meet our safety requirements and chemical restrictions. SUPPORT
72Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 73Q&A
Q & A sStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
DON’T YOU THINK WORKERS IN  
GARMENT FACTORIES SHOULD EARN 
ENOUGH TO LIVE ON?  
We absolutely agree that every worker in a garment factory 
should earn enough to live on. 
As a single company we can demand all our suppliers to 
pay their employees the wages and compensations they are 
entitled to. And we do so, very clearly through our Code of 
Conduct. We check if these requirements are truly followed 
during each factory audit.
WHY DON’T YOU IN YOUR CODE OF 
CONDUCT REQUIRE YOUR SUPPLIERS TO 
PAY A LIVING W AGE INSTEAD OF JUST 
THE MINIMUM W AGE? 
So far, minimum wages as defined by relevant laws, or in 
some cases collective bargaining agreements, are the only 
existing standards we can refer to. However, we think that the 
minimum wage in some countries, such as Bangladesh, is too 
low. We would immediately welcome a raise in the minimum 
wage here as well as a yearly revision. It is also important to 
remember that the vast majority of all garment workers earn 
substantially more that the minimum wage, thanks to skills 
and performance-based wage structures.
IF YOU THINK THAT W AGES ARE TOO LOW 
IN A COUNTRY LIKE BANGLADESH – WHY 
DON’T YOU JUST TAKE THE INITIATIVE 
TO IMPLEMENT A LIVING W AGE IN THOSE 
FACTORIES SUPPLYING TO H&M?
Like most garment retailers, H&M does not own any factories. 
Therefore we do not set or pay the wages ourselves. Also, 
H&M is rarely the only buyer at a suppliers’ factory. If we 
would individually demand a supplier to pay a certain H&M-
defined wage, that would mean that different workers in the 
same factory could earn different wages, depending on which 
customer they are currently producing for. We have in fact 
offered to pay higher prices to cover up for additional costs if 
suppliers in Bangladesh raise the wages. But they refuse for 
competitive reasons as their cost level would rise and they 
may lose business from other buyers.Q & A WITH INGRID SCHULLSTRÖM, CSR MANAGER,  
ON W AGES AT OUR SUPPLIERS
IS THERE NOTHING YOU CAN DO THEN TO 
INCREASE THE W AGES IN BANGLADESH?  
We have tried! In the autumn of 2009 we took the initiative 
of writing a letter, signed by a number of large retailers, to 
the Bangladeshi government to request them to increase 
the minimum wage immediately and for them to review it 
regularly. The letter was sent early 2010. The Bangladeshi 
government has recently asked the Minimum Wage Board to 
review the minimum wages of garment workers.
HOW THEN DO YOU THINK A LIVING 
W AGE CAN BE IMPLEMENTED?
The wage level in a country is defined by the general 
level of development of the country. Improved education, 
strengthening of trade unions, responsible governments and 
foreign trade are some factors needed to increase wage levels. 
A so-called living wage cannot be imposed from the outside, it 
has to be established inside the country. Ideally for us, the legal 
minimum wages should be equal to a minimum living wage .
74Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHAT DO YOUR ROLES ENTAIL?  
We work as regional CSR managers in Hong Kong and 
Shanghai, which means that we are responsible for the 
implementation of H&M’s sustainability strategy in the  
Far East region. 
WHAT HAS BEEN YOUR MOST DIFFICULT 
CHALLENGE WHEN IT COMES TO 
STRENGTHENING WORKERS’ RIGHTS AND 
IMPROVING WORKING CONDITIONS IN 
SUPPLIER FACTORIES? 
To start with, to be able to accomplish anything at all we 
need a clear picture of what the situation is like in factories 
producing for us. Unfortunately, in China it is common for 
factories to keep actual salary and working time records 
from auditors. This lack of transparency has been very 
challenging and hard to break through. Our auditors and 
factory compliance staff ended up in a cat and mouse game, 
where auditors chased true documents and factory staff kept 
finding more sophisticated ways of hiding those records. We 
have not been able to rely on the documents provided to us 
during audits, and factory staff has found it hard to trust that 
showing correct documents will not lead to loss of business. 
WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO OVERCOME 
THIS CHALLENGE?
We have worked very hard to convince our suppliers that the 
only way forward is to work together in an open way. We did 
this by guaranteeing that, to begin with, showing us actual 
working hours and salaries would not lead to less business 
with H&M. Also, aligning our Code of Conduct efforts and 
our business practices has played a major part in this process. 
Our Code of Conduct and production teams have spoken 
with one voice and suppliers that have kept showing us fake 
records have gradually been phased out. 
We noticed that suppliers became more interested in actually 
improving their practices rather than just putting energy 
into faking documents, which has been very encouraging. 
We believe that this is a huge breakthrough, because without 
trust and transparency we would not be able to achieve 
anything except what can be verified with the eye – basically Q & A WITH TOBIAS FISCHER AND ERIK CARLBORG,  
REGIONAL CSR MANAGERS IN CHINA, ON SUPPLIER TRANSPARENCY
the physical working environment and safety issues. Going 
forward, we need to maintain transparency, keep supporting 
factories in achieving real progress and rewarding them for 
doing so.
WHAT CAN H&M DO FURTHER TO 
IMPROVE WORKERS’ SITUATION AT WORK 
IN SUPPLIER FACTORIES?  
Our suppliers’ employees need to know both their rights 
and their obligations to be able to claim their rights in 
a constructive manner. Therefore, we need to facilitate 
education of factory employees so that they can voice their 
own concerns. We will continue to stress the importance of 
setting up proper communication and grievance channels, 
and support our suppliers’ improvement efforts by facilitating 
workshops and seminars and introducing them to service 
providers that can help improve labour practices. For 
instance, we will run a project with the Fair Labor Association 
in 2010 with the aim to improve dialogue between factory 
employees and managers. If it is successful, we hope to 
replicate it in more factories. And like we said, we need to 
keep focusing on maintaining an open and constructive 
cooperation with our suppliers – show them why and 
how they could become more responsible and productive 
employers and businesses, and reward their progress.
Erik Carlborg 1978–2010  
Erik Carlborg, Regional CSR Manager in Shanghai, 
passed away on 26 January 2010 following sudden illness. 
Erik joined H&M in 2006, and began working as an 
auditor. He was passionate, energetic and determined, 
and he did not avoid the difficult and sometimes 
inconvenient discussions and actions that his role 
entailed. This made him great at what he did, and we 
are grateful for his contribution to furthering H&M’s 
sustainability work in our supply chain. 
Erik was always an inspiration, and now, he reminds us of 
how precious and fragile life is, and that we have to make 
the most of the time we get. 
We miss our colleague, we miss our friend.
75Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WORKERS IN SEVERAL COUNTRIES 
WHERE H&M’S PRODUCTS ARE 
MANUFACTURED FIND IT HARD TO 
ORGANISE FREELY – AT THE SAME 
TIME H&M’S AUDITS DO NOT UNCOVER 
MANY VIOLATIONS OF FREEDOM OF 
ASSOCIATION, HOW IS THIS THE CASE?
The FLA refers to some areas covered in corporate codes and 
addressed in audits, as ‘the silent benchmarks’, for instance 
freedom of association and forced labour – and we agree. 
We can act when there is an obvious violation, for example 
workers being dismissed for trying to organise, but it is 
very difficult to determine if there is any invisible threat to 
workers in a factory. In that sense, auditing alone does not 
deliver the appropriate tool to address freedom of association 
in a more systematic way, which would also be visible in the 
non-compliance findings.
HOW DOES H&M BECOME AW ARE OF 
VIOLATIONS OF WORKERS’ RIGHT TO 
ORGANISE AND HOW DO YOU REACT? 
The most common way for us to get this information is 
directly from workers or from trade unions. In such cases, we 
act directly by initiating an investigation about the allegations 
made. If found to be correct, H&M would immediately 
request the violating company to take action, otherwise we 
would terminate our business. In many cases H&M is not the 
only buyer, which is why it is important to join action with 
other brands to achieve progress. If there is a trade union 
involved we prefer direct negotiations between them and the 
concerned supplier.Q & A WITH MARITHA LORENTZON, GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT  
COORDINATOR, ON FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AT OUR SUPPLIERS
WHAT DOES H&M DO TO PROMOTE  
THE WORKERS’ RIGHT TO ORGANISE AND 
BARGAIN COLLECTIVELY?
Many factory employees do not have knowledge about 
their basic rights, for example freedom of association. It is 
therefore one of our focus areas to educate suppliers’ workers 
in their rights including making them aware of their legal 
right to organise. We also support workers’ committees to be 
active in factories, and in this way promote the understanding 
of the democratic process of choosing representation in 
dialogue with the management.
Obviously, this challenge is even greater in countries where 
freedom of association is not permitted by law. We are 
planning to participate in a FLA project called PREPARE,  
to address this issue in China. The aim is to set up some kind 
of workers’ committees, to promote the dialogue between 
workers and management. The challenge here is that, in 
many countries, there is basically no experience of electing 
representatives freely.
76Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHAT DOES YOUR ROLE AT H&M ENTAIL? 
I am working as the Production Office Manager in Shanghai 
and our office coordinates our business in China, Cambodia, 
Vietnam and Indonesia for knit and woven products for all 
our brands. I am in charge of creating short and long-term 
strategies within our region to reach our company goals  
and enable the region to be prepared for future needs  
and challenges. 
I also have a second role at the moment: Global Knitwear 
Product Manager, where I am accountable for setting and 
communicating global strategies for the knitwear product 
category that will generate a sustainable global capacity.
HOW DO YOU CONTRIBUTE TO THE 
SUSTAINABILITY OF H&M’S BUSINESS? 
A very important part of my role is about ensuring that the 
supply chain in this region is willing and able to be our close 
business partners to achieve our goals and future challenges 
and share the same values. So, sustainability is at the top of 
our agenda both because it is the right thing to do and also 
by focusing on win-win solutions it generates great business 
opportunities and supports our values. 
We do not only demand our suppliers to meet our 
requirements and ensure the alignment through strict 
controls, but we are working on building a full transparent 
relationship where all problems are openly discussed and 
common ground is identified to reach solutions.
My Production Office Manager role gives me an opportunity 
to be close to the challenges and be a part of solutions, 
whereas my Global Production Manager role gives me the 
opportunity to have a perspective and a full picture of the 
global situation.
HOW DO YOU BALANCE H&M’S 
COMMERCIAL REQUIREMENTS 
AND SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
PERFORMANCE AT SUPPLIER FACTORIES?
As a company with a strong commitment to long-term 
solutions rather than quick fixes, it is not enough to give 
importance to commercial criteria alone such as price, 
quality and delivering on time. We want to make sure that the Q & A WITH HALIDE ALAGOZ, PRODUCTION OFFICE MANAGER IN  
SHANGHAI, ON SUPPLIER RELATIONS AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING
products we buy are produced in a responsible manner. Our 
Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics are non-negotiable for a 
supplier to be able to start and continue working with H&M. 
We are monitoring the performance of our suppliers, both in 
terms of these commercial KPIs and the way they take care of 
social and environmental compliance in their factories. 
Before each season, we go through an extensive supplier 
evaluation process. Every team in our organisation evaluates 
their performance and action plans. It is not only results 
and what we can measure in each field that defines our 
decision on the level of partnership we want to build with a 
supplier, but even more importantly, it is about their mentality 
and approach towards further improvements and system 
implementation. 
The suppliers with a better awareness and compliance status 
as well as commercial results are privileged with increased 
and stable long-term business with H&M, compared with 
those with better commercial results but poor understanding 
of our Code of Conduct. Even if this creates challenges for 
our production organisation to secure short-term results, 
it generates stronger capacity and better results in the long 
term. 
Through building strategic partnerships with our suppliers, 
we managed to create real-life examples to show how it pays 
off to have the right understanding. A supplier can reach high 
compliance standards and also secure good prices, quality 
and quick deliveries through capacity-building activities, 
increased efficiencies and reduced worker turnover rates.
We are aware of the difficulties they are facing to meet the 
challenges and we are encouraging them to share their 
problems with us in a transparent manner so that we can find 
solutions together, based on our business values.
HOW CAN H&M AS A BUYER CONTRIBUTE 
TO BETTER WORKING CONDITIONS AT 
SUPPLIER FACTORIES? 
H&M has a change-agent role in terms of compliance and 
improving conditions in this industry. Years ago our initial 
efforts started with requesting, instructing and controlling 
when the supply base was a stranger to such issues and now 
with the increased awareness and willingness we are creating 
77Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
a more participative and collaborative approach towards 
problems. Through stakeholder dialogue, training and 
projects, we are initiating capacity building programmes for 
our suppliers, creating mutually agreed ambition levels and 
methods for different issues. 
We have participated in different projects, from improving 
efficiency and cost reduction to healthcare systems to 
supervisor training. Securing right systems and increasing 
worker awareness play a key role in these efforts.
WHAT CHALLENGES DOES RESPONSIBLE 
PURCHASING ENTAIL? 
The biggest challenge, I believe, is to undertake short-term  
challenges while securing long-term ones. It is very 
challenging to provide customers from all around the world 
with the right goods with the right quality and the price  
when they want it. You need to act quickly and it may be 
tempting to take an action that will be a solution for the  
short term. However, we are working on keeping the right 
balance of these decisions versus the long-term capacity 
building strategies and commitments we have with our 
business partners. 
Our aim is to be able to offer our customer the best deal in 
our stores but also ensure them that our goods are produced 
in a responsible manner. The opportunities we provide 
them with in our stores have been generated in a way that 
contributes to the economical, social or environmental 
welfare of the countries where we operate. 
This is our responsibility towards our customers, our  
business partners, people who manufacture our products  
and communities where we operate.WHAT CAN H&M DO TO BECOME A MORE 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PARTNER? 
We have to keep on building good, long-term, stable relations 
with our strategic business partners and build a transparent 
and clear communication. This way we can understand 
them better and ensure their understanding for future 
challenges to achieve good short and long-term results. It 
is very important to build a relationship based on trust and 
shared business values. We have to find the right way to 
keep our promises versus being flexible to adapt to changing 
conditions and customer demands. Through our partnerships 
with suppliers, we are improving in understanding the effects 
of our decisions and taking necessary action. We are also 
communicating the reasons behind our decisions in a clear 
way to our suppliers.
We meet a lot of challenges but we consider every challenge 
as an opportunity to turn it to an advantage.
78Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHAT DID YOU EXPECT FROM THE 
SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME?
I expected consulting, but the programme turned out to be 
more like a coaching exercise that requires my management 
team to deeply reflect on our management philosophy.
WHAT WERE THE BENEFITS AND 
CHALLENGES OF THE PROGRAMME?  
The greatest challenge is the change imposed upon our 
management philosophy. The constant growth in the past 
years has exceeded my personal capacity. The programme’s 
key performance indicators have shown our shortcomings in 
management style. 
My family has always been very hands-on in the management 
of the factory. Our belief in personal and deep involvement 
allows us to perform consistently. However, in the past year 
we have felt the need and tried to include others other than 
family members in the management team, but they clearly 
do not have the same commitment. But each KPI meeting 
has reinforced the urgency to include more talent in the 
management team. 
Another major challenge has been to keep the overtime work 
below 60 hours per worker and month. The key problem is 
seasonal order placement. We have tried to reduce overtime 
work during non-peak season, but once peak kicks in, 
overtime increases drastically. We have tried to make progress 
within CSR by focusing on wages rather than overtime. 
I guess the greatest benefit of the supplier development 
programme is that it provided a scoreboard to review our 
progress; and I am challenged to review the promises I have 
made and face my shortcomings in delivering on those 
promises.
WHAT ELSE HAVE YOU LEARNED FROM 
THE PROGRAMME?
When it comes to prices, delivery and sample quality and 
speed, we have achieved ground-breaking progress as this 
has always been top of my agenda. Although we have made 
an effort in the field of CSR, this area has at times been set 
aside as I am fighting to get business in this tough economic Q & A WITH CHI YAN CHAN, OWNER OF GARMENT MANUFACTURER  
TAK SUN, CHINA
climate. But using the KPIs forces me to focus on other 
areas than just financial performance. The KPIs also help me 
see the bigger picture, and the facts and numbers provide 
tangible guidelines that are more trustworthy than just my gut 
feeling. I still believe that this business requires the passion 
and commitment that we as owners have, but the project has 
shown the benefit and rationality of taking a back row seat to 
see the bigger picture.
HAVE YOU SEEN ANY CONNECTION 
BETWEEN FINANCIAL AND  
CSR-RELATED KPIS? 
Yes and no. It is quite simple – with more orders, workers 
are able to earn more. We have a piece rate system, so I focus 
most of my efforts on increasing the workload to combat CSR 
problems. A stable financial performance and stable orders 
are fundamental to solving CSR problems. 
Throughout this year, I have had many thoughtful discussions 
with Erik [Erik Carlborg, Regional CSR Manager at H&M in 
Shanghai]. We have analysed why certain workers are able 
to earn higher wages, and others are not. Obviously there 
is the matter of efficiency, but the data also shows that the 
utilisation of workers’ time is important as we work with 
a piece rate system. It is a question of how we manage the 
workforce. Most supervisors let our experienced employees 
work more because they do not need as much monitoring as 
the beginners. This creates a problem as experienced workers 
get an enormous workload while new employees do not 
have much chance. Therefore, we have changed supervisors’ 
compensation schemes to include CSR scores – they are 
rewarded for maintaining a high utilisation rate of all workers 
within their production line. The initial results have shown a 
more equal share of workload and income.
79Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
FROM YOUR PERSPECTIVE, WHAT IS THE 
MAJOR CHALLENGE FOR RETAILERS  
LIKE H&M, WHEN IT COMES TO THEIR 
SUPPLY CHAINS?  
The supply chain for a retailer like H&M, from fibre to 
fashion, covers all the sustainability issues you can imagine. 
This includes global problems like carbon emissions and 
energy, but also very local context-specific issues like water 
use and emissions and labour situation. Often there is no  
‘one fits all’ solution, which leads to a complexity of issues  
to address. 
WHAT CAN YOU SAY ABOUT H&M’S 
RESPONSE TO THAT CHALLENGE? 
We feel that H&M acknowledges the complexity and is in 
open dialogue with all stakeholders to find solutions and 
‘hands-on’ projects to identify better practices.
HOW COULD H&M IMPROVE?
We feel H&M has serious intentions, though it’s difficult to 
quantify that. It is, for outsiders like us, sometimes unclear 
how this relates to the business aspect: targets/objectives, 
dialogue between CSR department and sourcing department. 
It would be useful for us if more information could be shared 
in order to understand more of the ambitions and possible 
challenges in reaching them.Q & A WITH JANET MENSINK, SOLIDARIDAD 
80Q & A SUPPLY CHAINStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHAT IS YOUR ROLE AT H&M?  
I am part of H&M’s CSR support team at the head office, 
and I manage our products group. My task is to look for ways 
to make our products more environmentally and socially 
sustainable, so this involves a lot of cooperation both with 
our buying office in Stockholm and our production offices all 
over the world, as well as a number of external stakeholders.
WHY HAS COTTON BECOME A MAJOR 
ISSUE ON H&M’S SUSTAINABILITY 
AGENDA? 
Volume wise, cotton is our main raw material. There are many 
positive aspects of cotton – it has nice properties as a material 
and it provides income for many in developing countries. 
At the same time, conventional cotton growing brings many 
negative social and environmental consequences that need to 
be addressed.
COULD YOU EXPLAIN H&M’S COTTON 
STRATEGY? 
We have worked with organic cotton for some years now, and 
will continue to do so – our target is to increase by 50% each 
year until 2013. 
But as I said, conventional cotton has negative effects and 
this is why we also work to make this kind of cotton more 
sustainable. We do this through the Better Cotton Initiative. 
When Better Cotton becomes available we will begin 
including it in our products, and we hope that farmers will be 
spurred on by us requesting Better Cotton. 
Finally, we also use some recycled cotton, to take care of 
textile waste in the production chain. We want as much as 
possible of the precious cotton being harvested to be put to 
good use.Q & A WITH HENRIK LAMPA, CSR MANAGER – PRODUCTS, ON COTTON
WHAT EXACTLY MAKES BETTER COTTON 
BETTER? 
There are minimum criteria for Better Cotton, for instance 
that those who use pesticides are properly trained and that 
only legally registered pesticides are used. But the main thing 
about Better Cotton is continuous improvement towards a 
more profitable and sustainable crop. When farmers learn 
to grow more with fewer chemicals and less water, their 
profitability will improve, which in turn will enable them to, 
for example, send their children to school. So there are direct 
and indirect social and environmental benefits as well.
WHEN AND HOW WILL CUSTOMERS FIND 
BETTER COTTON IN H&M’S STORES? 
The first cotton that meets the Better Cotton criteria will 
reach the market in early 2011. We will demand and use 
Better Cotton, and we aim for big volumes. But our customers 
should know that this is not another labelling scheme, so our 
products will not bear individual Better Cotton hangtags. This 
is about continuous improvement on a large scale.
81Q & A ENVIRONMENTStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHAT MAKES THE ISSUES THAT THE 
CLEAN SHIPPING PROJECT ADDRESSES 
IMPORTANT?  
Shipping causes major emissions both to air and water that 
have serious consequences for humans and the environment. 
The international environmental law concerning shipping  
is lagging.
WHAT CAN COMPANIES LIKE H&M DO? 
If large buyers of sea transport, such as H&M place similar 
and reasonable requirements on their sea transport providers 
we can get a ‘snowball’ rolling. Simply put, it can become 
beneficial for shipping companies to take environmental 
measures and by so doing gain market share. In the same way 
a shipping company that does not do anything risks being out 
of the market.
WHAT CAN YOU SAY ABOUT H&M’S 
CONTRIBUTION? 
Ever since the Clean Shipping Project was launched, H&M 
has been an active promoter of the project and we have 
had their full support. Now we are entering into an exciting 
phase where shipping companies need to meet certain basic 
conditions to be able to compete for contracts.Q & A WITH JAN AHLBOM, CLEAN SHIPPING PROJECT
82Q & A ENVIRONMENTStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
HOW DO YOU MAKE SURE THAT H&M 
PRODUCTS ARE SAFE TO USE?  
Attention to quality and safety is really important to us. 
We carry out tests and inspections all the way through 
the production process, from the design stage through 
manufacture, to make sure that all our products live up to our 
quality and safety standards.
If we, despite our efforts, should find that any product is 
unsafe, we have a recall procedure to stop the selling and 
inform the customers to return what they have bought.
HOW DO YOU MAKE SURE THAT 
MANUFACTURERS COMPLY WITH H&M’S 
CHEMICAL RESTRICTIONS? 
Firstly, all H&M suppliers commit to comply with our 
chemical restrictions.
We educate our suppliers and regularly audit the factories to 
make sure that they fully understand our requirements, and 
are able to fulfil them.
As a last step to ensure compliance, the products are tested at 
independent test labs.
WHAT DO YOU DO TO PROMOTE THE USE 
OF FEWER AND SAFER CHEMICALS IN 
GARMENT MANUFACTURE? 
We continuously work with our suppliers to raise awareness 
of best practice, and of alternatives to risky chemicals. We 
have also put into practice specific projects that will help us 
take harmful chemicals out of the manufacturing process. For 
example, we have a programme to phase out solvent-based 
adhesives and replace them with water-based alternatives. 
We collaborate with other major retailers through AFIRM, 
a group with the objective to reduce the use of harmful 
substances in garment and footwear supply chains. Through 
these partnerships we arrange seminars for suppliers to 
exchange information on best practices. 
We recently joined the Leather Working Group, which 
promotes sustainability within the leather industry.Q & A WITH TOMAS PERSSON, QUALITY MANAGER
WHAT ARE YOUR GOALS FOR THE NEXT 
FEW YEARS? 
Our goal in the next one to three years is that all suppliers 
should operate their own quality assurance, have good 
chemical management and operate early risk assessments and 
testing to identify and deal with potential quality risks. 
We will continuously develop our routines and methods to 
adapt our quality standards to new fashions, products and 
market regulations.
83Q & A PRODUCTSStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHAT DO YOU DO TO MAKE H&M  
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK?  
You should ask some of my colleagues here at H&M! I can  
definitely tell you what we aim for and what kind of 
atmosphere we are trying to create, but our employees are  
the ones who can say whether we are successful at it or not. 
We are a fast-growing company and this means that we 
constantly need more team-players who are as passionate 
about fashion and business as we are. We offer different 
exciting jobs where you can have lots of responsibility from 
day one. So if you are curious to learn about different parts 
of our business, you have the opportunity to try different 
positions, departments and levels. 
We respect our employees’ rights and of course we have 
policies to guide us, but our way of treating people sits more 
in our culture than in manuals. Being open-minded and 
believing in people is part of what makes us H&M. Here,  
you should not feel that you have to leave your personality  
at home.
BEING PRESENT IN 35 COUNTRIES ACROSS 
THE WORLD, HOW ARE YOU ABLE TO 
SPREAD AND MAINTAIN H&M’S VALUES? 
One of the reasons we are successful abroad is that we are 
able to find people who like our way of working – we employ 
individuals, not countries. Regardless of where we are, it is 
important that everyone at H&M, not just managers, leads by 
example. We also have to keep talking about the importance 
of living the values and constantly remind ourselves that our 
culture is a big part of our success.Q & A WITH SANNA LINDBERG, HEAD OF HUMAN RESOURCES
WHAT ARE YOUR MAIN PRIORITIES FOR 
THE NEXT 1 – 3 YEARS? 
People, people, people! In the more than 60 years that H&M 
has been around, our people have played a major part in 
the company’s success. One thing is for sure – as we keep 
expanding we have to make sure that we have the right people 
in the right place at the right time. And of course we want our 
employees to feel that we are a good company to work for. I 
became Head of HR for the H&M group last fall, and right 
now my team and I are reviewing our way of working to see 
how we can improve further. Check in with us again next year 
and we will let you know how we have done.
84Q & A EMPLOYEESStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
WHICH EMPLOYEE RELATIONS ISSUE DO 
YOU THINK IS THE MOST IMPORTANT FOR 
RETAILERS LIKE H&M TO ADDRESS?  
We are currently discussing the issue of providing full-time 
jobs for all those who want to work full time. Also, I think, 
it is about making sure that a good working environment 
applies to all employees.
WHAT CAN YOU SAY ABOUT H&M’S 
RESPONSE TO THIS ISSUE? 
H&M is willing to discuss these issues and showed openness 
to work in a kind of project together with the EWC, which  
is good.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE 
COOPERATION WITH H&M WITHIN THE 
EUROPEAN WORKS COUNCIL FROM  
YOUR PERSPECTIVE? 
I feel that we have a good cooperation and communication 
with H&M. It gets better and better all the time.
WHAT ARE THE MAJOR ISSUES 
DISCUSSED IN THE FORUM? 
Currently, we talk about the issue of full-time versus part-time 
work, working conditions in the logistics and about what can 
be done in order to support elderly employees.
WHERE DO YOU THINK H&M IS GOOD AS 
AN EMPLOYER, WHERE WOULD YOU LIKE 
TO SEE IMPROVEMENTS? 
H&M is a good employer and most of us feel that it is a good 
company to work with. One improvement I would see would 
be to listen more to us employees and what we want and to 
the problems that some of us have in stores and the logistics. Q & A WITH ROBERT BYLUND, EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVE, EWC
85Q & A EMPLOYEESStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 73APPENDIX 1
PERFORMANCEAUDITS BASIC FIGURES
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 01FAP (FULL AUDITS) FUP (FOLLOW-UP AUDITS) TOTAL AUDITS AVERAGE NUMBER  
OF AUDITS PER  
ACTIVE FACTORY
COUNTRYNO. % UNANNOUNCED NO. % UNANNOUNCED NO. % UNANNOUNCED
Bangladesh 94 65% 245 76% 339 73% 1.68
India 97 41% 154 53% 251 49% 1.03
Pakistan 16 31% 29 90% 45 69% 1.45
Sri Lanka 4 0% 4 0% 8 0% 0.67
TOTAL SOUTH ASIA 211 50% 432 68% 643 62% 1.31
China (excl. Hong Kong) 311 72% 467 52% 778 60% 1.38
Hong Kong 1 100% 0 0 1 100% 0.25
Indonesia 30 67% 22 64% 52 65% 1.27
Cambodia 24 67% 15 80% 39 72% 1.15
South Korea 9 11% 15 7% 24 8% 0.38
Vietnam 5 60% 4 0% 9 33% 0.82
Thailand 1 100% 1 0% 2 50% 0.67
TOTAL FAR EAST 381 70% 524 52% 905 59% 1.26AUDITS  
BASIC FIGURESAUDITS  
BASIC FIGURES
AUDITS BASIC FIGURES
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 02FAP (FULL AUDITS) FUP (FOLLOW-UP AUDITS) TOTAL AUDITS AVERAGE NUMBER  
OF AUDITS PER  
ACTIVE FACTORY
COUNTRYNO. % UNANNOUNCED NO. % UNANNOUNCED NO. % UNANNOUNCED
Turkey 204 84% 247 67% 451 75% 1.35
Bulgaria 25 84% 46 76% 71 79% 1.48
Romania 35 74% 31 35% 66 56% 1.94
Italy 25 8% 0 0% 25 8% 0.19
Portugal 12 0% 2 0% 14 0% 0.45
Tunisia 3 0% 3 33% 6 17% 0.55
Egypt 1 100% 4 25% 5 40% 0.71
Morocco 2 50% 3 0% 5 20% 0.63
Lithuania 0 0% 4 75% 4 75% 0.67
Greece 3 33% 0 0% 3 33% 0.18
Poland 1 100% 2 0% 3 33% 0.50
Latvia 0 0% 2 50% 2 50% 0.67
Czech Republic* 0 0% 1 0% 1 0% 0.00
Ukraine 1 0% 0 0% 1 0% 0.33
Hungary 1 0% 0 0% 1 0% 1.00
France 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0AUDITS  
BASIC FIGURES
AUDITS BASIC FIGURES
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 03FAP (FULL AUDITS) FUP (FOLLOW-UP AUDITS) TOTAL AUDITS AVERAGE NUMBER  
OF AUDITS PER  
ACTIVE FACTORY
COUNTRYNO. % UNANNOUNCED NO. % UNANNOUNCED NO. % UNANNOUNCED
Great Britain 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0
Netherlands 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0
Sweden 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0
Total EMEA 313 72% 345 63% 658 67% 0.99
Australia 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0
Brazil 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0
GRAND TOTAL 905 66% 1301 60% 2206 63% 1.18
* One audit in the Czech Republic has been conducted on a factory which did not supply H&M in 2009. We focus our audit efforts on our key suppliers and follow a risk assessment approach. Accordingly the average number of audits per factory can vary between countries.  
Active production countries per region
FAR EAST: China (incl. Hong Kong), South Korea, Indonesia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand 
SOUTH ASIA: India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka
EMEA† (EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA):  Turkey, Italy, Bulgaria, Romania, Portugal, Greece, Tunisia, Egypt, Lithuania, Poland, Ukraine, Latvia, Hungary, Moldova, France, 
Great Britain, Morocco, Sweden, Netherlands  
†including one factory from Australia and Brazil
AUDITS OVER 5 YEARSAUDITS  
BASIC FIGURES
AUDITS BASIC FIGURES
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 042009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Total number of audits 2,206 2,526 2,012 1,493 2,670
Number of full audits (FAP) 905 812 948 581 0
Number of follow-up audits (FUP) 1,301 1,697 1,035 442 0
Other audits 0 0 0 451 2,670
Audits conducted by FLA 19 17 24 (+5  
verification audits)19 0
Share of audits conducted on potential new factories 18% 21% 25% 31% 25%PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 05SUMMARY  
PROGRESS  BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
SUMMARY OF PROGRESS  
BETWEEN FAP AUDITSNON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
% % % % % % % %
Young worker requirements 75% 16% 45% 38% 86% 83% 78% 47%
Child labour 1% 3% 2% 1% 2% 1% 2% 2%
Workers’ basic rights 24% 15% 21% 29% 19% 17% 21% 20%
Workers’ rights 41% 20% 17% 22% 17% 20% 26% 21%
Health & Safety 17% 9% 11% 12% 16% 19% 15% 13%
Housing conditions 8% 4% 13% 7% 25% 15% 9% 5%
Environment 34% 37% 37% 44% 39% 51% 37% 45%
Sandblasting & chemical handling 11% 0% 24% 24% 22% 0% 23% 24%
TOTAL 26% 15% 18% 22% 19% 23% 21% 20%PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 06PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
CHILD LABOUR 
Are all workers of or above minimum age as required  
by national law or H&M’s Code of Conduct?1% 3% 2% 1% 2% 1% 2% 2%
TOTAL 1% 3% 2% 1% 2% 1% 2% 2%
YOUNG WORKER REQUIREMENTS
Are workers below 18 working under legal conditions? 75% 16% 45% 38% 86% 83% 78% 47%
TOTAL 75% 16% 45% 38% 86% 83% 78% 47%
WORKERS’ BASIC RIGHTS
Is absence of forced labour confirmed? 2% 1% 2% 13% 1% 1% 2% 5%
Do foreign and migrant workers have equal employment 
terms as local workers?0% 0% 2% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Do foreign and migrant workers have a residential 
permit/working permit?11% 3% 0% 0% 18% 5% 12% 3%
Are all workers protected from any forms of abusive 
behaviour in the factory? 2% 4% 9% 27% 4% 3% 5% 11%
Are all workers protected from any form of physical 
abuse or sexual harassment?0% 0% 1% 4% 0% 0% 1% 1%
Is freedom of association respected? 0% 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% - 0%
Does the factory have legally required  
worker committees?40% 0% 20% 0% 45% 0% - 0%
Do the workers have the right to bargain collectively? 2% 2% 0% 3% 0% 1% 0% 2%
Is there a grievance system in place in the factory? 88% 47% 62% 79% 49% 54% 66% 60%
Is there a system for dialogue between workers  
and management?83% 73% 64% 70% 64% 73% 70% 72%PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 07PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
WORKERS’ BASIC RIGHTS 
Are all workers, regardless of gender, ethnic, religious  
or geographical background, treated equally?0% 1% 0% 0% 1% 0% 1% 1%
Do all workers have an employment contract? 40% 20% 43% 68% 32% 38% 38% 42%
Are all relevant areas covered in the contract? 17% 0% 36% 0% 33% 0% - 0%
TOTAL 24% 15% 21% 29% 19% 17% 21% 20%
WORKERS’ RIGHTS 
Are the regular working hours within the legal limit? 57% 4% 7% 5% 14% 24% 25% 11%
Are monthly overtime hours within the legal limit? 91% 71% 83% 67% 68% 65% 81% 68%
Does the basic salary amount to at least the legal 
minimum wage for normal working hours (including 
piece rate workers)?42% 8% 8% 6% 10% 15% 20% 10%
Is overtime compensated according to the law  
to workers with monthly salary? 56% 21% 12% 16% 29% 44% 29% 27%
Is overtime compensated according to the law  
to piece rate workers? 82% 0% 22% 100% 36% 0% - 100%
Are  wages paid regularly and on time? 7% 15% 21% 38% 13% 12% 14% 21%
Are deductions fair and reasonable? 7% 0% 15% 0% 9% 0% - 0%
Are correct wages paid? 30% 0% 24% 0% 13% 0% - 0%
Does the factory pay social security? 68% 12% 11% 13% 26% 23% 40% 17%
If there is no social security system, are the workers 
covered by alternative insurance? 31% 100% 9% 0% 0% 0% - 100%
Is sick leave duly granted? 3% 14% 10% 16% 2% 7% 5% 12%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 08FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
WORKERS’ RIGHTS 
Is sick leave compensated by the factory  
according to the law? 62% 38% 5% 18% 4% 11% 31% 26%
Is annual leave granted and paid for according to law? 59% 25% 14% 24% 20% 16% 31% 22%
Are all additional types of leave,  
stipulated by law, granted?23% 17% 14% 22% 5% 8% 14% 16%
Is maternity leave given and paid for according to law? 38% 16% 3% 8% 0% 1% 14% 8%
Are pregnant women guaranteed their employment 
during and after pregnancy?1% 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Does the factory fulfil the legal requirement  
concerning day care?20% 32% 29% 45% 62% 32% 32% 41%
TOTAL 41% 20% 17% 22% 17% 20% 26% 21%
HEALTH & SAFETY 
Are all basic safety requirements met? 2% 5% 11% 8% 13% 15% 9% 10%
Are all additional safety requirements met? 47% 13% 18% 15% 35% 40% 33% 23%
Are regular evacuation drills performed? 7% 8% 6% 18% 17% 51% 10% 26%
Are hazardous machines equipped with  
necessary protection?10% 15% 7% 8% 37% 32% 20% 18%
Is personal protective equipment (PPE) provided  
and used, where necessary?30% 27% 22% 25% 37% 44% 29% 31%
Is adequate first aid equipment available,  
and first aid training provided?20% 9% 11% 10% 26% 27% 19% 15%
Are any workers trained in first aid? 21% 23% 6% 12% 12% 46% 10% 27%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 09FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
HEALTH & SAFETY 
In case of injury or illness, can medical care for  
the workers be provided with short notice?14% 4% 8% 8% 15% 4% 12% 5%
Can workers drink water without health risks? 2% 3% 12% 13% 15% 13% 10% 9%
Does the factory provide a canteen/dining area  
available for all workers?4% 6% 10% 15% 5% 8% 6% 10%
Is the factory clean and free from dirt and dust? 51% 6% 11% 8% 18% 6% 27% 6%
Is the temperature in the factory tolerable to work in? 4% 5% 8% 8% 6% 10% 6% 7%
Is the spot removal content in accordance with H&M’s 
Chemical Restrictions list, performed in well ventilated 
area, using adequate PPE?13% 7% 23% 17% 24% 11% 20% 12%
Is the light in the factory sufficient for intended work? 0% 0% 0% 1% 1% 1% 0% 1%
Is there a sufficient number of toilets? 2% 3% 4% 13% 2% 3% 3% 6%
Are toilets clean and maintained? 45% 11% 13% 18% 9% 8% 22% 12%
Do the workers have unlimited access to the toilets? 3% 4% 3% 11% 2% 3% 3% 6%
TOTAL 17% 9% 11% 12% 16% 19% 15% 13%
ENVIRONMENT
Does the factory have the legally required  
environmental permits/licences?12% 9% 10% 19% 22% 24% 14% 18%
Are the chemical containers properly labelled? 66% 56% 57% 49% 38% 42% 55% 49%
Are the solvent based chemicals in compliance  
with H&M’s Chemical Restrictions list?11% 0% 5% 0% 18% 0% - 0%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 10FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
ENVIRONMENT 
Does the factory have safety data sheets for all 
chemical products both in storage and workshop?62% 55% 64% 62% 47% 71% 59% 63%
Have the workers regularly handling chemicals  
been trained in safe chemical handling?32% 47% 53% 67% 52% 70% 46% 63%
Is the information in the safety data sheets  
on storage and PPE implemented? 45% 41% 62% 63% 50% 64% 54% 57%
Is the outgoing waste water treated? 6% 15% 19% 32% 7% 11% 13% 23%
Are there clear signs that the waste water treatment 
system is in use?13% 0% 20% 10% 11% 0% 17% 6%
Does the treated waste water quality meet  
requirements in local legislation and/or BSR  
guidelines whichever is strictest?6% 8% 19% 20% 9% 20% 14% 17%
Does the waste water treatment capacity exceed the 
waste water going to the waste water treatment plant?4% 0% 14% 0% 0% 0% - 0%
Is sludge from the waste water treatment disposed  
of in a legal or otherwise responsible manner?27% 13% 28% 36% 11% 19% 26% 26%
Is the hazardous waste disposed of in a legal manner? 41% 43% 12% 43% 56% 63% 36% 51%
TOTAL 34% 37% 37% 44% 39% 51% 37% 45%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 11FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
HOUSING CONDITIONS (ONLY APPLICABLE FOR FACTORIES WITH HOUSING FACILITIES)
Is the dormitory separated from the factory building? 1% 0% 13% 14% 0% 0% 1% 1%
Can the workers enter and exit the dormitory  
at any time?5% 0% 13% 0% 0% 0% 6% 0%
Does everyone living in the dormitory  
have an individual bed?0% 0% 13% 0% 0% 0% 1% 0%
Are workers granted some personal privacy? 28% 22% 38% 29% 0% 0% 29% 22%
Does the dormitory meet required basic safety? 3% 5% 13% 25% 0% 50% 3% 7%
Is there a sufficient number of clean toilets? 9% 3% 0% 0% 0% 0% 9% 3%
Are facilities for private hygiene provided? 6% 1% 13% 0% 0% 50% 6% 1%
Is the dormitory generally clean and hygienic? 17% 6% 0% 0% 0% 0% 16% 6%
If there is a staffed kitchen in the dormitory,  
is it clean and hygienic?11% 8% 0% 0% 0% 0% 8% 6%
Is the temperature in the dormitory tolerable? 1% 1% 13% 0% 100% 0% 3% 1%
Are regular evacuation drills performed? 11% 0% 33% 0% 100% 0% 12% 0%
Are all additional safety requirements met? 11% 0% 33% 0% 100% 0% 13% 0%
TOTAL 8% 4% 13% 7% 25% 15% 9% 5%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 12FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
SANDBLASTING & CHEMICAL HANDLING
Are legally required air quality measurements done? 0% 0% 29% 100% 17% 0% 21% 100%
Is ventilation sufficient? 0% 0% 6% 100% 0% 0% 5% 100%
Are the legally required health checks in place  
in the factory?0% 0% 50% 0% 0% 0% 25% 0%
Are the workers educated on safe handling and risks? 0% 0% 53% 100% 0% 0% 39% 100%
Is there a wash station in direct connection to the 
workshop in case dust or chemicals gets in workers’ eyes? 0% 0% 18% 0% 29% 0% 19% 0%
Is hearing protection worn if there is a noisy 
environment, e.g. sandblasting?50% 0% 22% 0% 0% 0% 21% 0%
Does the factory have the required permit  
for doing sandbalasting?0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Does the sandblasting material contain less than  
1% chrystaline silica (SiO2)? 0% 0% 40% 100% 0% 0% 31% 100%
Is ventilation adopted for sandblasting activity? 0% 0% 10% 0% 0% 0% 8% 0%
Is the sandblasting done in a separate area? 0% 0% 18% 0% 0% 0% 14% 0%
Is compulsory PPE used? 0% 0% 56% 0% 0% 0% 42% 0%
Is additional PPE provided by the employer? 0% 0% 22% 0% 0% 0% 17% 0%
Do the cleaning staff have compulsory PPE when 
cleaning sandblasting area?0% 0% 20% 0% 0% 0% 15% 0%
Are the workers handling potassium permanganate  
in storage and mixing using the PPE needed?0% 0% 12% 0% 50% 0% 22% 0%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 13FAR EAST (234 FACTORIES) SOUTH ASIA (224 FACTORIES) EMEA (250 FACTORIES) TOTAL (708 FACTORIES)
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT 2ND FAP AUDIT 1ST FAP AUDIT
AUDIT QUESTION % % % % % % % %
SANDBLASTING & CHEMICAL HANDLING
Are the workers spraying chemicals  
using the PPE needed?50% 0% 36% 0% 50% 0% 41% 0%
Are the workers spongeing chemicals wearing 
impervious gloves?0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Is the potassium permanganate stored safely? 0% 0% 18% 0% 63% 0% 30% 0%
TOTAL 11% 0% 24% 24% 22% 0% 23% 24%
GRAND TOTAL 26% 15% 18% 22% 19% 23% 21% 20%PROGRESS BETWEEN
FAP AUDITS
PROGRESS BETWEEN FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 14By the end of 2009, a total of 708 out of 1,876 active factories had completed their second FAP audit (full audit)  as part of our Full Audit Programme. This means, that after a first full audit and up to three related follow-up audits they have passed a 
second full audit during 2009. The above data shows the progress they have made during this process. After 2008 only 162 factories had passed their second full audit; this number of factories now provides a better base for reasonably assessing the 
progress made through our Full Audit Programme in comparable factories.
We see some progress for most requirements in both the South Asia and EMEA region, particularly regarding environmental requirements. All regions show good progress on this issue. For most other requirements, particularly from the area of 
workers’ rights such as overtime and overtime compensation or leave, the Far East region shows mostly different results, with occasional heavily increased non-compliance levels. Previously, we had to identify that many of our suppliers in China  
did not show a satisfactory level of transparency. During the last year we put strong focus on reaching out for full transparency with our Chinese suppliers, and we are confident to have achieved important steps in this direction for 2009. Figures  
as reported above are accordingly an expected result which demonstrate to us that we are on the right track to 1) to further remediate non-compliances through our Full Audit Programme and 2) to have reached a high level of transparency in China. 
Accordingly, improved transparency has lead to higher non-compliance findings in the Far East region. Read more about what we did to face this challenge in China in an interview with our CSR Managers Tobias Fischer and Erik Carlborg in Hong Kong 
and Shanghai on page 75. 
Please find further analysis of non-compliances focus issues and related targets in our 2009 target follow-up and our 2010 targets. NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 15SUMMARY
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE
PER AREA OF REQUIREMENTSFAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
Child labour 7 2% 10% 1 1% 3% 7 2% 5% 15 2% 6%
Young workers’ requirements 177 80% 47% 5 17% 39% 134 86% 91% 316 78% 66%
Workers’ basic rights 908 25% 23% 611 21% 20% 649 21% 20% 2,168 23% 21%
Workers’ rights 2,157 41% 39% 1,071 29% 20% 750 20% 25% 3,978 31% 29%
Health & Safety 1,053 21% 20% 630 18% 8% 1,001 24% 19% 2,684 21% 16%
Housing conditions 300 13% 10% 36 32% 13% 3 25% 28% 339 14% 11%
Environment 631 42% 59% 339 42% 38% 257 49% 51% 1,227 43% 50%
Sandblasting & chemical treatment 32 32% 39% 46 27% 23% 48 38% 16% 126 31% 30%
Metal plating 4 17% 43% 2 22% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 6 18% 43%
Home workers 53 51% n.a. 21 36% n.a. 9 29% n.a. 83 43% n.a.
TOTAL 5,322 29% 29% 2,763 24% 17% 2,858 24% 25% 10,943 26% 24%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 16FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
CHILD LABOUR
Are all workers of or above minimum age as required by 
national law or H&M’s Code of Conduct?7 2% 10% 1 1% 3% 7 2% 5% 15 2% 6%
TOTAL 7 2% 10% 1 1% 3% 7 2% 5% 15 2% 6%
YOUNG WORKERS’ REQUIREMENTS
Are workers below 18 working under legal conditions? 177 80% 47% 5 17% 39% 134 86% 91% 316 78% 66%
TOTAL 177 80% 47% 5 17% 39% 134 86% 91% 316 78% 66%
WORKERS’ BASIC RIGHTS
Is absence of forced labour confirmed? 7 2% 2% 2 1% 1% 3 1% 1% 12 1% 1%
Do foreign and migrant workers have equal employment terms  
as local workers?0 0% 0% 1 1% 0% 0 0% 0% 1 0% 0%
Do foreign and migrant workers have a residential  
permit/working permit?34 13% 7% 0 0% 0% 2 15% 27% 36 13% 8%
Are all workers protected from any form of abusive behaviour 
in the factory? 5 1% 1% 17 8% 5% 13 4% 3% 35 4% 3%
Are all workers protected from any form of physical abuse  
or sexual harassment?0 0% 0% 0 0% 1% 1 0% 2% 1 0% 1%
Is freedom of association respected? 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0%
Does the factory have legally required worker committees? 61 37% - 58 29% - 111 52% - 230 40% -
Do the workers have the right to bargain collectively? 1 2% 0% 0 0% 1% 0 0% 0% 1 0% 1%
Is there a grievance system in place in the factory? 303 90% 90% 179 85% 67% 147 60% 60% 629 80% 73%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 17FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009. % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009. % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009. % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009. % 2009 % 2008
Is there a system for dialogue between workers  
and management?286 86% 89% 162 80% 69% 147 69% 79% 595 80% 80%
Are all workers, regardless of gender, ethnic, religious or 
geographical background, treated equally?3 1% 0% 0 0% 0% 2 1% 3% 5 1% 1%
Do all workers have an employment contract? 138 39% 39% 100 47% 41% 109 39% 42% 347 41% 40%
Are all relevant areas covered in the contract? 70 21% - 86 42% n.a. 111 42% - 267 33% -
TOTAL 908 25% 23% 611 21% 20% 649 21% 20% 2168 23% 21%
WORKERS’ RIGHTS
Are the regular working hours (excl. overtime) within the  
legal limit?199 57% 16% 116 36% 7% 70 22% 29% 385 39% 18%
Are monthly overtime hours within the legal limit? 305 88% 81% 265 83% 71% 183 61% 57% 753 78% 70%
Does the basic salary amount to at least the legal minimum 
wage for normal working hours (including piece rate workers)?123 34% 24% 32 10% 7% 40 12% 22% 195 19% 18%
Is overtime compensated according to the law to workers  
with a monthly salary?144 56% 61% 80 26% 19% 119 39% 55% 343 40% 46%
Is overtime compensated according to the law  
to piece rate workers?204 80% - 90 78% - 22 43% - 316 75% -
Are wages paid regularly and on time? 21 6% 24% 36 12% 26% 36 12% 27% 93 10% 26%
Are deductions fair and reasonable? 29 9% - 35 15% - 14 7% - 78 11% -
Are correct wages paid? 90 26% - 64 26% - 41 13% - 195 22% -NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 18FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
WORKERS’ RIGHTS
Does the factory pay social security? 252 71% 48% 71 39% 13% 107 33% 41% 430 50% 38%
If there is no social security system, are the workers  
covered by alternative insurance?95 41% - 59 40% - 0 0% - 154 40% -
Is sick leave duly granted? 20 6% 25% 46 22% 13% 19 7% 9% 85 10% 16%
Is sick leave compensated by the factory according to the law? 221 65% 51% 12 9% 13% 6 8% 5% 239 44% 32%
Is annual leave granted and paid for according to law? 206 60% 56% 39 19% 21% 64 25% 27% 309 38% 36%
Are all additional types of leave, stipulated by law, granted? 102 31% 42% 53 35% 26% 11 5% 9% 166 24% 27%
Is maternity leave given and paid for according to law? 136 40% 36% 7 4% 5% 2 1% 0% 145 18% 15%
Are pregnant women guaranteed their employment  
during and after pregnancy?7 2% 1% 1 0% 1% 0 0% 0% 8 1% 0%
Does the factory fulfil the legal requirement concerning  
day care?3 12% 36% 65 41% 28% 16 73% 45% 84 41% 31%
TOTAL 2157 41% 39% 1071 29% 20% 750 20% 25% 3978 31% 29%
HEALTH & SAFETY 
Are all basic safety requirements met? 19 5% 20% 47 15% 9% 48 15% 25% 114 11% 18%
Are all additional safety requirements met? 186 51% 39% 95 45% 10% 136 47% 40% 417 48% 31%
Are regular evacuation drills performed? 68 19% 40% 58 18% 18% 94 31% 46% 220 22% 36%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 19FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
HEALTH & SAFETY 
Are hazardous machines equipped with necessary protection? 16 12% 21% 12 6% 7% 100 40% 33% 128 22% 20%
Is personal protective equipment (PPE) provided and used,  
where necessary?127 39% 57% 64 31% 18% 88 47% 44% 279 39% 40%
Is the building considered as safe? 1 - - 2 - - 0 - - 3 100% -
Is adequate first aid equipment available and first aid  
training provided?112 31% 38% 33 16% 6% 137 48% 21% 282 33% 23%
Are any workers trained in first aid? 6 75% 45% 0 0% 9% 0 0% 37% 6 60% 31%
In case of injury or illness, can medical care for the workers be 
provided with short notice?52 15% 5% 32 15% 6% 77 28% 7% 161 20% 6%
Can workers drink water without health risks? 10 3% 5% 46 14% 9% 46 15% 20% 102 10% 11%
Does the factory provide a canteen/dining area available  
for all workers?10 3% 5% 25 13% 11% 15 6% 11% 50 7% 9%
Is the factory clean and free from dirt and dust? 191 52% 15% 48 15% 7% 111 36% 5% 350 35% 9%
Is the temperature in the factory tolerable to work in? 18 5% 4% 27 13% 4% 25 9% 9% 70 8% 6%
Is the spot removal content in accordance with H&M’s Chemical 
Restrictions list, performed in well ventilated area, using adequate 
PPE?64 29% 18% 83 52% 6% 84 47% 13% 231 41% 13%
Is the light in the factory sufficient for intended work? 1 13% 1% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 1% 1 10% 1%
Is there a sufficient number of toilets? 12 3% 4% 11 5% 3% 8 3% 4% 31 4% 4%
Are toilets clean and maintained? 154 43% 22% 42 20% 9% 27 10% 12% 223 26% 15%
Do the workers have unlimited access to the toilets? 6 2% 2% 5 2% 3% 5 2% 5% 16 2% 3%
TOTAL 1053 21% 20% 630 18% 8% 1001 24% 19% 2684 21% 16%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 20FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
ENVIRONMENT
Does the factory have the legally required environmental 
permits/licences?28 17% 17% 9 10% 11% 21 33% 39% 58 19% 24%
Are the chemical containers properly labelled? 131 74% 805 65 78% 58% 46 70% 37% 242 74% 61%
Are the solvent based chemicals in compliance with H&M’s 
Chemical Restrictions list?32 24% - 5 6% - 14 23% - 51 19% -
Does the factory have safety data sheets for all chemical 
products both in storage and workshop?128 72% 75% 67 82% 66% 40 61% 52% 235 72% 65%
Have the workers regularly handling chemicals been trained  
in safe chemical handling?78 45% 82% 56 68% 63% 39 59% 66% 173 54% 71%
Is the information in the safety data sheets on storage  
and PPE implemented?104 61% 71% 58 71% 67% 51 77% 54% 213 67% 65%
Is the outgoing waste water treated? 14 14% 10% 18 30% 9% 7 18% 17% 39 19% 11%
Are there clear signs that the waste water treatment system  
is in use?4 7% 13% 15 30% 6% 1 10% 10% 20 17% 9%
Does the treated waste water quality meet requirements in 
local legislation and/or BSR guidelines, whichever is strictest?11 20% 12% 14 28% 16% 3 38% 24% 28 25% 15%
Does the waste water treatment capacity exceed the waste 
water going to the waste water treatment plant?3 6% - 7 14% - 1 11% - 11 10% -
Is sludge from the waste water treatment disposed  
of in a legal or otherwise responsible manner?20 33% 34% 13 27% 13% 2 20% 22% 35 30% 22%
Is the hazardous waste disposed of in a legal manner? 75 44% 76% 9 15% 14% 29 48% 72% 113 39% 59%
TOTAL 631 42% 59% 339 42% 38% 257 49% 51% 1227 43% 50%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 21FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
HOUSING CONDITIONS
Is the dormitory separated from the factory building? 3 1% 3% 0 0% 18% 0 0% 50% 3 1% 5%
Can the workers enter and exit the dormitory at any time? 9 5% 3% 2 20% 0% 0 0% 50% 11 5% 3%
Does everyone living in the dormitory have an individual bed? 1 1% 1% 3 30% 20% 0 0% 50% 4 2% 3%
Are workers granted some personal privacy? 91 45% 43% 7 70% 40% 0 0% 50% 98 46% 43%
Does the dormitory meet required basic safety? 17 8% 18% 4 40% 10% 0 0% 50% 21 10% 18%
Is there a sufficient number of clean toilets? 23 11% 6% 1 10% 10% 0 0% 0% 24 11% 6%
Are facilities for private hygiene provided? 12 6% 5% 3 30% 10% 0 0% 0% 15 7% 5%
Is the dormitory generally clean and hygienic? 38 19% 12% 2 20% 0% 0 0% 0% 40 19% 11%
If there is a staffed kitchen in the dormitory,  
is it clean and hygienic?3 10% 13% 0 0% 13% 0 0% - 3 9% 13%
Is the temperature in the dormitory tolerable? 2 1% 1% 0 0% 10% 1 100% 0% 3 1% 2%
Are regular evacuation drills performed? 55 28% - 8 80% - 1 100% - 64 31% -
Are all additional safety requirements met? 46 23% - 6 60% - 1 100% - 53 25% -
TOTAL 300 13% 10% 36 32% 13% 3 25% 28% 339 14% 11%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 22FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
HOME WORKERS
Is the work performed in home or work place chosen by the 
workers themselves and which is not owned by employer?0 0% - 2 29% - 0 0% - 2 7% -
Are all workers, involved in home work, perceived to be above 
or the same age as the minimum age required by the national 
law, and H&M’s Code of Conduct?0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% -
Are young workers, involved in home work, attending school? 0 0% - 3 50% - 0 0% - 3 33% -
Are all home workers performing their work voluntarily  
at all times?0 0% - 1 14% - 0 0% - 1 4% -
Do foreign and migrant workers have a residential permit? 1 100% - 0 0% - 0 0% - 1 100% -
Are home workers free to organise a union or cooperative? 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% -
Is collective bargaining respected? 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% -
Is there a grievance system in place? 17 100% - 5 83% - 4 80% - 26 93% -
Do all home workers have an agreement? 17 100% - 7 100% - 3 60% - 27 93% -
Can the amount of work be produced, by one person,  
within a reasonable number of working hours?1 6% - 0 0% - 0 0% - 1 4% -
Does the hourly rate amount to at least the legal minimum 
hourly wage?17 100% - 3 60% - 2 50% - 22 85% -
TOTAL 53 51% - 21 36% - 9 29% - 83 43% -NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 23FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
SANDBLASTING & CHEMICAL HANDLING
Are legally required air quality measurements done? 5 63% 92% 2 25% 25% 3 38% 33% 10 42% 70%
Is ventilation sufficient?* 0 0% 8% 2 13% 10% 1 13% 0% 3 9% 8%
Are the legally required health checks in place in the factory? 6 86% 86% 4 67% 0% 0 0% 0% 10 43% 57%
Are the workers educated on safe handling and risks? 3 43% 50% 11 69% 56% 3 30% 0% 17 52% 45%
Is there a wash station in direct connection to the workshop in 
case dust or chemicals gets in workers' eyes?4 40% 23% 4 27% 30% 6 50% 33% 14 38% 27%
Is hearing protection worn if there is a noisy environment,  
e.g. sandblasting?2 29% 56% 2 20% 20% 1 20% 0% 5 23% 40%
Does the factory have the required permit for  
doing sandblasting?0 0% 50% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 30%
Does the sandblasting material contain less than  
1% crystalline silica (SiO2)?2 29% 29% 2 18% 80% 0 0% 100% 4 17% 54%
Is ventilation adopted for sandblasting activity? 0 0% 11% 1 9% 0% 1 17% 0% 2 9% 6%
Is the sandblasting done in a separate area? 0 0% 11% 2 18% 0% 1 17% 0% 3 12% 6%
Is compulsory PPE used? 1 25% 0% 3 33% 60% 2 50% 0% 6 35% 27%
Is additional PPE provided by the employer? 2 50% 0% 3 33% 0% 2 50% 0% 7 41% 0%
Do the cleaning staff have compulsory PPE  
when cleaning sandblasting area?1 50% 0% 1 11% 33% 2 50% 0% 4 27% 20%
Are the workers handling PP in storage and mixing  
using the PPE needed?2 40% 38% 2 15% 10% 8 57% 17% 12 38% 24%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 24FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
Are the workers spraying chemicals using the PPE needed? 3 60% 60% 5 50% 40% 8 67% 33% 16 59% 46%
Are the workers spongeing chemicals wearing impervious gloves? 0 0% 43% 0 0% 0% 2 50% 20% 2 25% 22%
Is the potassium permanganate stored safely? 1 11% 20% 2 15% 20% 8 57% 0% 11 31% 17%
TOTAL 32 32% 39% 46 27% 23% 48 38% 16% 126 31% 30%
METAL PLATING
Is there a responsible person with chemical education? 0 0% 100% 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% 100%
Are the workers educated on safe handling and risks? 0 0% 100% 1 100% - 0 0% - 1 25% 100%
Is ventilation adopted for metal plating? 0 0% 0% 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% 0%
Does the factory have a chemical inventory list? 1 33% 0% 0 0% - 0 0% - 1 25% 0%
Is compulsory PPE used? 0 0% 0% 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% 0%
Is the wash station in direct connection with the workshop 
in case chemicals get in workers’ eyes?2 67% 100% 0 0% - 0 0% - 2 50% 100%
Are the legally required health checks in place in the factory? 1 33% - 1 100% - 0 0% - 2 50% -
Are the non-compatible chemicals separated in storage  
and in the workshop?0 0% 0% 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% 0%
If hydrofluoric acid (HF) is used is it handled safely? 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% - 0 0% -
TOTAL 4 17% 43% 2 22% - 0 0% - 6 18% 43%
GRAND TOTAL 5322 29% 29% 2763 24% 17% 2858 24% 25% 10943 26% 24%NON-COMPLIANCE  
FINDINGS
FROM FAP AUDITS
NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 25The figures provided in the above tables are based on all findings from FAP audits (full audits) conducted during 2009 and 2008. In order to create the greatest possible accuracy and transparency, non-compliance levels are weighted according  
to the frequency each related question from our audit questionnaire was raised during our Full Audit Programme. Questions are only raised where applicable. Accordingly, percentage figures do not neccessarily relate to the total number of audits 
conducted and not to the number of factories in total. Please note therefore that figures do not relate to comparable factories. Audit results from potential new factories, which have been rejected and accordingly never started to work for H&M  
(55 factories), or have in 2009 been newly approved for supplying H&M (350 factories), are included in the 2009 figures. This means that non-compliances from a total of 405 factories, which have at the time of the audit not yet been supplying  
H&M, are included in the figures. However, we believe disclosing these figures delivers a transparent picture of our audit results in total and the issues faced on this scale. 
During 2009, we further improved our data systems. All figures now refer to the number of violations per requirement as detected during an audit. Previously, figures related to all findings detected during an audit, while one violation could be based 
on multiple findings. Although comparing 2008 figures gathered through the new and the previous system showed only limited variations, we believe that this is a further step towards improving data quality. To maintain comparability of the reported 
data, we have therefore updated the 2008 figures disclosed in this report accordingly. Please note, that minor variations to the data as disclosed in our 2008 report result from this.
Several indicators, especially from the area of workers’ rights, such as overtime remain to show high non-compliance levels. Partly, this results from further improved supplier transparency in the Far East region (China). Read more about this issue  
in an interview with our CSR Managers in that region, Tobias Fischer and Erik Carlborg.
Please see our 2009 target follow-up and our 2010 targets for further commentary on major focus issues.NON-COMPLIANCE FINDINGS FROM FAP AUDITS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 26NON-COMPLIANCE 
FINDINGS
FAP AUDITS/FOCUS ISSUES
FAR EAST SOUTH ASIA EMEA TOTAL
FOCUS ISSUES NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE NON-COMPLIANCE
RELATED AUDIT QUESTION NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008 NO. 2009 % 2009 % 2008
Do all workers have an employment contract? 138 39% 39% 100 47% 41% 109 39% 42% 347 41% 40%
Are monthly overtime hours within the legal limit? 305 88% 81% 265 83% 71% 183 61% 57% 753 78% 70%
Is overtime compensated according to the law to workers  
with a monthly salary?144 56% 61% 80 26% 19% 119 39% 55% 343 40% 46%
Is overtime compensated according to the law to  
piece rate workers?204 80% no. req. 90 78% no. req. 22 43% no. req. 316 75% no. req.
Does the basic salary amount to at least the legal minimum 
wage for normal working hours (including piece rate workers)?123 34% 24% 32 10% 7% 40 12% 22% 195 19% 18%
Is sick leave duly granted? 221 65% 51% 12 9% 13% 6 8% 5% 239 44% 32%
Is there a grievance system in place in the factory? 303 90% 90% 179 85% 67% 147 60% 60% 629 80% 73%
Are all basic safety requirements met? 19 5% 20% 47 15% 9% 48 15% 25% 114 11% 18%
Have the workers regularly handling chemicals been trained in 
safe chemical handling?78 45% 82% 56 68% 63% 39 59% 66% 173 54% 71%
Does the treated waste water quality meet requirements in local 
legislation and/or BSR guidelines, whichever is strictest?11 20% 12% 14 28% 16% 3 38% 24% 28 25% 15%Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 27FOLLOW-UP  ON 
GLOBAL SOCIAL
TARGETS 2009
FOCUS AREA ACTIVITIES
Secure auditing method Ensuring audit quality and internal comparability by developing a benchmarking tool during 2009.
Secure all internal CoC-routines in production 
officesDevelop internal audit tool and conduct internal audits globally to secure data quality. 
Auditor capacity building Provide training in already identified development areas such as communication and environmental requirements. Through auditor evaluation tool (developed 
2008) conduct gap-analysis and identify further auditor development areas. Parallel activity will be to develop training material on management system. FOLLOW -UP ON 2009 TARGETSStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 28FOLLOW-UP  ON 
GLOBAL SOCIAL
TARGETS 2009
REGION/ISSUE RELATED QUESTION FROM OUR 
AUDIT QUESTIONNAIRE (NO.)NON-COMPLIANCE 
2008*GOAL 2009 RESULT 
2009COMMENT
EMEA
Overtime 17a 55% 41% 39% By close cooperation with our most important suppliers we have been able to see progress towards this  
goal. Workshops, awareness-raising and remediation activities focusing on our most important suppliers 
have contributed to reduced non-compliances with regard to the issue of overtime.
Minimum wage 16 22% 20% 12% By close cooperation with our most important suppliers we have been able to see progress towards this  
goal. Workshops, awareness-raising and remediation activities focusing on our most important suppliers  
have, as well as improved routines in our suppliers’ selection of potential new subcontractors, contributed  
to reduced non-compliances with regard to the issue of minimum wages.
Waste water 
treatment68a 24% 14% 38% We did not meet the target, as further non-compliance remained in three factories. We have in the meantime 
conducted follow-up audits on these factories and we were able to identify further progress. After this, only 
one factory remained non-compliant with the requirement. We will focus further on this issue and set a 
related target for 2010.FOLLOW -UP ON 2009 TARGETSStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 29FOLLOW-UP  ON 
GLOBAL SOCIAL
TARGETS 2009
REGION/ISSUE RELATED QUESTION FROM OUR 
AUDIT QUESTIONNAIRE (NO.)NON-COMPLIANCE 
2008*GOAL 2009 RESULT 
2009COMMENT
SOUTH ASIA
Overtime 15 71% 68% 83% We have initiated a long-term project with a number of key suppliers aiming to understand and remediate 
causes of excessive overtime. The programme started later than planned and as a consequence did not yet 
lead to progress in non-compliances. However, we have seen first results in reduced overtime per employee 
and improved record systems. We will therefore continue to make further efforts on this issue in 2010. 
Sick leave 21 13% Reduction 9% We have seen slight progress on this target and tendencies over the year have made us confident that we 
will meet further reductions in non-compliance. We will continue to follow up on further progress through  
our Full Audit Programme.
Annual leave 22 21% Reduction 19% We have seen slight progress on this target and tendencies over the year have made us confident that we 
will meet further reductions in non-compliance. We will continue to follow up on further progress through  
our Full Audit Programme.
Grievance/
communication 
systems10 67% 41% 85% Almost all factories have grievance/communication systems in place. However, we also register  
non-compliance on this audit question in case we see any constraints with the functionality of the grievance 
system. We will continue working towards well-functioning grievance systems together  
with our suppliers and set a related target for 2010.
Chemical 
handling64 63% 32% 68% The existence of training in chemical handling at our suppliers has increased. However, during 2009 we 
decided to further strengthen our requirements and registered every subrequirement as a non-compliance  
with regard to overall chemical handling training. This has led to a higher non-compliance level. We will 
continue to follow up this issue and set a related goal in 2010.
Waste water 
treatment68a 16% 8% 28% 2008 figures related to the requirements as outlined by the local legislation. During 2009 we started 
requiring compliance with the BSR water quality guidelines, if stricter. In some countries this has lead to a 
higher non-compliance level. Accordingly, we did not meet the target of reducing non-compliance to 8% and  
set a new target for 2010 to follow up on this issue.FOLLOW -UP ON 2009 TARGETSStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 30FOLLOW-UP  ON 
GLOBAL SOCIAL
TARGETS 2009
REGION/ISSUE RELATED QUESTION FROM OUR 
AUDIT QUESTIONNAIRE (NO.)NON-COMPLIANCE 
2008*GOAL  
2009RESULT  
2009COMMENT
FAR EAST
Correct wage 18a 24% 13% 6% In 2009 we identified substantial progress on wages being paid regularly and on time. In order to further 
follow up on the issue of correct wages we have now set a new target for 2010 by focusing on verifying  
the basic salary amounts to at least the legal minimum wage for normal working hours and set a new  
target also relating to correct overtime compensation.
Contracts 13a 39% 21% 39% We did not achieve progress on the issue of employment contracts and will continue to follow up on this  
with our suppliers in 2010.
Grievance/
communication 
systems10 90% 47% 90% We have not seen progress towards this goal during 2010. When looking at individual markets Cambodia is 
standing out as a better example. One third of the factories have a proper grievance system in place. Training 
programmes and awareness-raising measurements, particulary in China, have not shown the effects we 
wished for. We will therefore look into the related activities and continue to stress to our suppliers the 
importance of functioning grievance and communcation systems, as we believe functioning grievance systems 
are an important base for long-lasting improvements and working conditions.
Waste water 
treatment68a 12% 6% 20% Waste water treatment plants are in place in all applicable factories. We have been focusing on assessing 
the functionality of these plants and it has become apparent that during 2009 there were eight factories 
which did not yet meet the required BSR water quality guidelines or could not provide sufficient waste water 
testing reports. We are continuing to follow up on this issue during 2010.
Health &  
Safety systems27 20% 8% 5% Through focusing on the existence of functional management systems with regard to health & safety issues 
we see progress on this issue and met our target for 2009. However, work on maintaining the compliance 
level and achieving further progress will continue.
Chemical 
handling64 82% 42% 45% Although we can see some progress towards our goal, we did not manage to fully reach it mainly as a result 
of slower progress in China. Therefore we will continue to follow up on this issue in our 2010 targets.
* During 2009 we have further improved our data systems. All figures do now refer to the number of violations per requirement as detected during an audit. Previously, figures related to all findings detected during an audit, while one violation could be based on multiple findings. Although comparing 2008 figures 
gathered through the new and the previous system showed only limited variations, we believe that this is a further step towards improving data quality. Therefore, and to maintain comparability over time, all figures for 2008 and 2009 are reported according to this improved system. Please note that minor variation 
to the data as disclosed in our 2008 report can result from this.FOLLOW -UP ON 2009 TARGETS1
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GLOBAL TARGETS 2010
31GLOBAL   
SOCIAL
TARGETS 2010
REGION/ISSUE RELATED QUESTION FROM OUR 
AUDIT QUESTIONNAIRE (NO.)NON-COMPLIANCE 
2009GOAL 2010 ACTIVITIES RESPONSIBLE
EMEA
Is overtime compensated 
according to the law  
to workers with  
monthly salary?17a 39% 34% Via close cooperation with our most important suppliers, we aim for further improved 
transparency and thereby address and improve overtime compensation. Additionally we will  
focus on educating the workers in their rights (e.g. overtime, compensation).Pelle Karlsson
Does the basic salary 
amount to at least the 
legal minimum wage for 
normal working hours?16 12% 10% Via capacity building with our most important suppliers’ CoC-organisations, we aim to further 
reduce the number of potential new production units that would fail an audit by breaching 
minimum wage requirement.Pelle Karlsson
Does the treated waste 
water quality meet 
requirements in local 
legislation and/or BSR 
guidelines, whichever is 
the strictest?68a 38% 25% We will continue providing education and training in order to raise the awareness levels of waste 
water requirements. We work together with and request action plans from non-compliant 
suppliers and will continue to follow up on the progress made. Pelle Karlsson2
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GLOBAL TARGETS 2010
32GLOBAL   
SOCIAL
TARGETS 2010
REGION/ISSUE RELATED QUESTION FROM OUR 
AUDIT QUESTIONNAIRE (NO.)NON-COMPLIANCE 
2009GOAL 2010 ACTIVITIES RESPONSIBLE
SOUTH ASIA
Grievance system 10 85% 64% Continue to raise awareness on rights among our suppliers’ employees through film project  
in Bangladesh.  Basirun Nabi
Overtime hours 15 83% 75% We will continue with a long-term project started in 2009, which aims to understand and 
remediate the root causes of excessive overtime. We focus on nine key suppliers in this project.Basirun Nabi
Is sick leave  
duly granted?20* 22% 18% We will further raise workers’ awareness on their rights for example through our film project  
and will simultaneously involve management in ensuring that related policies and routines  
for sick leave are kept to. Basirun Nabi
Have the workers 
regularly handling 
chemicals been trained in 
safe chemical handling?64 68% 38% We will further focus on related training with our key suppliers. Basirun Nabi
Does the treated waste 
water quality meet 
requirements in local 
legislation and/or BSR 
guidelines, whichever is 
the strictest?68a 28% 14% We will continue to focus on following up on the corrective actions planned by suppliers based  
on the water data tests collected in 2009 in order to fully meet BSR requirements.Basirun Nabi
*2009-related questions 21 & 22 have been changed to question 20, since this addresses the root cause of leave issues.3
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GLOBAL TARGETS 2010
33GLOBAL   
SOCIAL
TARGETS 2010
REGION/ISSUE RELATED QUESTION FROM OUR 
AUDIT QUESTIONNAIRE (NO.)NON-COMPLIANCE 
2009GOAL 2010 ACTIVITIES RESPONSIBLE
FAR EAST
Do all workers have an 
employment contract?13a 39% 30% Continue awareness-raising among our suppliers and support them to implement human 
resources Management Systems. Tobias Fischer
Does the basic salary 
amount to at least the 
legal minimum wage for 
normal working hours?16 34% 25% Clear communication of our expectations to our suppliers in combination with education and 
implementation of well functioning management and administration systems. Together with the 
suppliers we will monitor and verify the systems and the data. We will also further integrate 
wage-related requirements into our purchasing routines and systems.Tobias Fischer
Is overtime compensated 
according to the law to 
piece rate workers?17b 80% 80% Clear communication of our expectations to our suppliers in combination with education and 
implementation of well functioning management and administration systems. Together with  
the suppliers we will monitor and verify the systems and the data.Tobias Fischer
Have the workers 
regularly handling 
chemicals been trained in 
safe chemical handling?64 45% 35% We will provide our suppliers with training on safe chemical handling both from our internal 
auditors and from external service providers. This will be followed up together with the 
implementation of environment and health & safety management systems among our suppliers.Tobias Fischer
Does the treated waste 
water quality meet 
requirements in local 
legislation and/or BSR 
water quality guidelines, 
whichever is the 
strictest?68a 20% 20% We plan to finalise and evaluate the performance of the waste water treatment plants in the region 
and continue working with our suppliers to make sure all meet the BSR standards and monitor this 
through random testing. The activities taken might lead to higher number of non-compliance. Tobias FischerCO2 EMISSIONS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 34CO 2 EMISSIONS
Our target has been to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 10% relative to sales until 2009, using 2004 as baseline year. We have exceeded this target and achieved a reduction of 32% instead.
As shown in the chart, in 2009 we emitted 2.63 tonnes of CO2 per SEK million sales compared to 3.84 tonnes of CO2 per SEK million sales in our targets’ baseline year 2004. 
The total actual CO2 emissions for 2009 were 311,858 tonnes, an increase of 11% compared to 2008, while our turnover increased by 14%. Compared to the baseline year 2004, total carbon emissions increased by 
29% while our turnover increased by 88%.
Compared to 2008, significant reductions could be achieved in emissions resulting from business travel and fuels from company-owned cars, both in relative and absolute terms. Good relative reductions have been 
achieved in transports while emissions resulting from buildings (including energy use) increased.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
CO 2 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE SHARE TONNES CHANGE 
FROM 
LAST YEARSHARE TONNES CHANGE 
FROM 
LAST YEARSHARE TONNES CHANGE 
FROM 
LAST YEARSHARE TONNES CHANGE 
FROM 
LAST YEARSHARE TONNES
Distribution centres  
(fuel & heating)3% 9,581 11% 3% 8,632 14% 3% 7,601 7% 2% 7,125 -39% 4% 11,599
Electricity (entire company) 39% 121,120 28% 34% 94,557 60% 25% 59,162 -51% 40% 120,949 3% 39% 117,647
Total (buildings) 42% 130,701 27% 37% 103,189 55% 28% 66,763 -48% 42% 128,075 -1% 43% 129,246
Transport (road, sea, rail) 34% 106,776 1% 38% 105,565 10% 41% 96,163 6% 30% 90,682 9% 28% 83,149
Transport (air, incl. air from 
sea/air combination)17% 52,991 12% 17% 47,525 -5% 21% 50,142 -20% 21% 62,426 -12% 24% 71,131
Total (transport) 51% 159,767 4% 55% 153,090 5% 62% 146,305 -4% 51% 153,108 -1% 52% 154,280
Business travel 6% 18,723 -13% 8% 21,480 1% 9% 21,335 28% 6% 16,691 31% 4% 12,537
Fuel for company-owned cars 1% 2,667 -7% 1% 2,875 6% 1% 2,714 7% 1% 2,531 8% 1% 2,346
Grand total 100% 311,858 11% 100% 280,634 18% 100% 237,117 -21% 100% 300,405 1% 100% 298,409CO 2 EFFICIENCY TARGETSCO2 EMISSIONS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 35CO 2 EMISSIONS
*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER 
Turnover
(including VAT)CO2 emissionsChange in turnover and CO2 emissions 2008-2009
88%
29%
*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER CO2 emissions (tonnes) relative to sales (SEK million including VAT) Actual
Target 3.45
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 20093.844.15
3.75
2.572.70 2.63CO2 EMISSIONS
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 36CO 2 EMISSIONS
BY SOURCE 2009
Transport 51%
Buildings 42%
Business travel 6%
Fuels for company-owned cars 1%
*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%
Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER By sourceStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 37FOLLOW -UP ON 2009 TARGETS
FOLLOW-UP  ON 2009
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL
TARGETS
OUTCOME:  COMPLETED    IN PROGRESS    TIMEFRAME SET LATER THAN 2009    NOT COMPLETED 
TARGET OUTCOME STATUS TIMEFRAME RESPONSIBLE
Include 250 tonnes of transitional cotton into H&M’s supply chain The transitional cotton has been booked and will be blended into garments 
produced in 2010.2009/2010 Henrik Lampa,  
Halide Alagoz
Increase the number of garments labelled with the Flower 
eco-label by 20% over the previous yearAchieved an increase of 34% (in total 1,875,000 garments). 2009 Charlotte Tholsby
Increase the use of recycled and recyclable materials by making 
our plastic bags out of recycled materialsPlastic bags made from recycled materials were introduced in 2009  
and are being released globally in 2010.2009/2010 Viveca Kleebinder,  
Madelene Ericsson
Pilot water-saving washing techniques in denim laundries Pilot successful and program to be gradually extended. 2009 Lars Doemer
Identify hot spots where wet processing units with high water use 
and/or low water efficiency are located in water-scarce areasIdentification of wet processing units completed. 92 out of 296 factories 
are located in water-scarce or extreme water-scarce areas. Further 
measures based on this to be developed.2009/2010 Henrik Lampa
Identify a method of monitoring the carbon footprint of our  
supply chainStudy conducted by BSR on carbon emissions from a garment’s life cycle 
perspective. Further development of methods to measure and final initiating 
measurement to be done.2009 Henrik Lampa,  
Mikael Blommé 
Installed wattage for all sales area lighting in new stores  
reduced by 13% All newly built stores are now constructed accordingly. August 2009 Peter Ekeberg,  
Magnus TångringStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 38FOLLOW-UP  ON 2009
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL
TARGETS
OUTCOME:  COMPLETED    IN PROGRESS    TIMEFRAME SET LATER THAN 2009    NOT COMPLETED 
TARGET OUTCOME STATUS TIMEFRAME RESPONSIBLE
To test out energy-efficient solutions in conjunction with the 
building of a new warehouseIn progress. Currently in planning status.  
Construction planned during 2010.2010 Martin Winckler-Carlsen, 
Mikael Blommé
To reduce H&M’s carbon dioxide emissions by 10%  
relative to the size of the company measured in terms of salesTarget has been met and exceeded (32% reduction achieved). December 2009 Ingrid Schullström,  
Mikael Blommé
Reduction of energy use in stores by 20% per square metre In progress. 2020 Ingrid Schullström,  
Mikael Blommé
At least 20% of energy use in stores from renewable  
energy sourcesIn progress. 2020 Ingrid Schullström,  
Mikael BlomméFOLLOW -UP ON 2009 TARGETSGLOBAL
ENVIRONMENTAL
TARGETS 2010
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 39GLOBAL TARGETS 2010
TARGET TIMEFRAME RESPONSIBLE
Organic cotton mix in all of our Flower-labelled baby garments 2010 Charlotte Tholsby, Madelene Ericsson
Increase amount of organic cotton used by 50% each year compared to the previous year’s goal (15,000 tonnes by 2013) 2013 Anna Attemark
Use cotton in H&M’s supply chain from first Better Cotton Initiative implementation season 2010 Henrik Lampa, Karl-Gunnar Fagerlin
All cotton to come from sustainable sources (such as by now Better Cotton, organic cotton, recycled cotton) 2020 Karl-Gunnar Fagerlin
Initiate supply chain carbon footprint monitoring 2010 Henrik Lampa, Mikael Blommé
Test out energy-efficient solutions in conjunction with the building of a new warehouse     2010 Martin Winckler-Carlsen, Mikael Blommé
Reduce the H&M Group’s carbon dioxide emissions relative to sales by minimum 5% per year compared to the previous year 2010-2012 Ingrid Schullström, Mikael Blommé
Reduction of energy use in stores by 20% per square metre 2020 Ingrid Schullström, Mikael Blommé
At least 20% of energy use in stores from renewable energy sources 2020 Ingrid Schullström, Mikael BlomméEMPLOYEES
HR DATA
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 40*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97
Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  
Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER EMPLOYEES
HR DATA
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 41
Permanent contracts 83%
Temporary contracts 17%*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER EMPLOYEES
HR DATA
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 42
Full-time employees 45%
Part-time employees 55%*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER EMPLOYEES
HR DATA
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 43*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94
Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  
Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% maleProduction Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% maleTotal: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER EMPLOYEES
HR DATA
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 44*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)* 
Store manager: 2.6% 
Department manager (in-store): 6.2% 
Visual merchandiser: 6.5%
Sales advisor: 66.2%Warehouse employees: 6.6%
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN* 
Store manager: 0.92Department manager (in-store): 0.95
Visual merchandiser: 0.94Sales advisor: 0.97Warehouse employees: 0.95
Not including franchise operations.GENDER DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS  Board of Directors: 56% female, 44% maleGroup Level Management (incl. CEO): 38% female, 62% male
Sales Country Managers: 48% female, 52% male
Production Ofﬁce Managers: 46% female, 54% maleBuying Ofﬁce Division Heads: 57% female, 43% maleBuying Ofﬁce Section Heads: 83% female, 17% male
Sales Area Managers: 66% female, 34% male
Store Managers: 78% female, 22% male
Total: 77% female, 23% male*Applicable for the most common and comparable categories (88% of total workforce). 
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TYPE 2009 
FULL AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2009 CO2 EMISSIONS 2009 
CO2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS 2004–2009 
INCREASE IN TURNOVER Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009
 73APPENDIX 2
GRI CONTENT INDEX1
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTESOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  GRI CONTENT INDEX
AND APPLICATION LEVEL
PROFILE
1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of 
the organisation about the relevance of 
sustainability to the organisation and its strategy.Approach/CEO Message Annual Report Part 1/  
CEO Letter H&M’s 2009 sustainability report was put together by taking into consideration the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).  
The GRI reporting framework, of which the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are the core, has three levels of application – A, B and C. Different levels of disclosure across Profile, Management Approach and 
Performance Indicators define whether a report is A, B or C. A ‘+’ sign indicates the report has been externally assured.
 H&M has achieved a ‘self declared’ level B of application. 
A table displaying disclosure against the indicators from the Apparel & Footwear Sector Supplement is also shown here. Although these indicators have not been finalised, H&M have chosen to disclose 
against them. 
The following key has been used to show the extent of report coverage in both tables:BACKGROUND TO THE GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES2
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTESOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  GRI CONTENT INDEX
1.2 Description of key impacts risks and opportunities. Approach/CEO Message Annual Report Part 2/
Administration Report/
Risks and uncertainties
2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
2.1 Name of the organisation Throughout report Contact details
2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Approach Annual Report Part 2/
Administration Report/
Business
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including 
main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries 
and joint ventures.Approach Annual Report Part 2/
Administration Report/
Notes to the financial 
statements
2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Approach/Global brand, 
global impact and reachAnnual Report Part 2/
Contact details 
2.5 Number of countries where the organisation 
operates, and names of countries with either major 
operations or that are specifically relevant to the 
sustainability issues covered in the report.Approach Annual Report Part 1; Annual 
Report Part 2/Notes to the 
financial statementsGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
3
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Administration Report/Notes 
to the financial statements
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 
sectors served and types of customers/
beneficiaries).Approach/Global brand, 
global impact and reachAnnual report Part 1/  
Market overview 
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including:
•  Number of employees;
•   Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net 
revenues (for public sector organisations);
•   Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt 
and equity (for private sector organisations); and
•   Quantity of products or services provided.Employees; Approach/
Global brand, global impact 
and reachAnnual Report Part 2/
Administration Report
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 
regarding size, structure or ownership.Approach/Global brand, 
global impact and reachAnnual Report Part 2/
Administration Report/
Business
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Approach
3. REPORT PARAMETERS
REPORT PROFILE
3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year)  
for information provided.Approach/
How we reportGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
4
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Approach/
How we report
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Approach/
How we report
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 
its contents.Approach/
How we report
REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
3.5 Process for defining report content
•   Determining materiality;
•   Prioritising topics within the report; and
•   Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects 
to use the report.Approach/
Engaging Stakeholders
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries,  
divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities,  
joint ventures, suppliers).Approach/
How we report 
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 
boundary of the report.Approach/How we report/
Performance & Downloads
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 
leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 
entities that can significantly affect comparability 
from period to period and/or between organisations.GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 5INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 
calculations, including assumptions and techniques 
underlying estimations applied to the compilation of 
the Indicators and other information in the report.Approach/How we report/
Performance & Downloads
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 
information provided in earlier reports, and the 
reasons for such restatement (e.g. mergers/
acquisitions, change of base years/periods,  
nature of business, measurement methods).Performance & Downloads
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 
in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 
applied in the report.Approach/How we report/
Performance & Downloads
GRI CONTENT INDEX
3.12Table identifying the location of the Standard 
Disclosures in the report.Performance & DownloadsGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
6
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
ASSURANCE
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 
external assurance for the report.Approach/How we report
4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT
GOVERNANCE
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including 
committees under the highest governance body 
responsible for specific tasks, such as setting 
strategy or organisational oversight.Annual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance Report
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 
governance body is also an executive officer  
(and, if so, their function within the organisation’s 
management and the reasons for this arrangement).Annual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance Report
4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board 
structure, state the number of members of the 
highest governance body that are independent  
and/or non-executive members.Annual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance ReportGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
7
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 
provide recommendations or direction to the highest 
governance body.Annual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance Report
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the 
highest governance body, senior managers and 
executives (including departure arrangements), and 
the organisation’s performance (including social 
and environmental performance).Administration Report
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body 
to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and 
expertise of the members of the highest governance 
body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on 
economic, environmental and social topics.Annual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance Report
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or 
values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 
economic, environmental and social performance 
and the status of their implementation.Approach/Sustainability 
Strategy; Supply Chain/
Code of ConductGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
8
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 
overseeing the organisation’s identification and 
management of economic, environmental, and 
social performance, including relevant risks and 
opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 
internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, 
and principles.Approach/CEO Message, 
Sustainability strategyAnnual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance Report
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 
body’s own performance, particularly with respect 
to economic, environmental, and social 
performance.Annual Report Part 2/
Corporate Governance Report
COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 
approach or principle is addressed by the 
organisation.Approach/Sustainability 
Strategy
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and 
social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 
which the organisation subscribes or endorses.Approach/Engaging 
Stakeholders
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry 
associations) and/or national/international 
advocacy organisationsApproach/Engaging 
Stakeholders; throughout  
the reportGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 9INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 
organisation.Approach/Engaging 
Stakeholders, Sustainability 
Strategy; Performance  
& Downloads
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 
stakeholders with whom to engage.Approach/Sustainability 
Strategy, Engaging 
Stakeholders; Performance  
& Downloads
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 
frequency of engagement by type and by 
stakeholder group.Approach/Sustainability 
Strategy 
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 
through stakeholder engagement, and how the 
organisation has responded to those key topics and 
concerns, including through its reporting.Approach/Sustainability 
Strategy; Employees/Dialogue 
& Employee Relations; 
Performance & Downloads 
5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Aspect: Economic Performance
DMA Management Approach disclosures Approach Annual Report Part 1GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 10INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 
including revenues, operating costs, employee 
compensation, donations and other community 
investments, retained earnings and payments to 
capital providers and governments.Communities Annual Report Part 2/  
The annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts 
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to 
climate change.Approach   Principle 7
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan 
obligations.Annual Report Part 2/Notes 
to the financial statements
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from 
government.
Aspect: Market Presence
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage 
compared to local minimum wage at significant 
locations of operation. (Additional indicator.)
EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on 
locally-based suppliers at significant locations of 
operation.GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 11INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 
management hired from the local community at 
locations of significant operation.
Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Core
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure 
investments and services provided primarily for 
public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro 
bono engagement.
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect 
economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 
(Additional indicator.)Approach/Global brand, 
global impact and reach; 
throughout the report
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures Environment
Aspect: Materials
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Environment/Raw Materials   Principle 8 Refers to the use of  
organic cotton
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 
input materials.GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 12INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Energy
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy 
source.Performance & Downloads   Principle 8
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Performance & Downloads   Principle 8
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 
improvements. (Additional indicator.)Environment/Climate  
& Energy  Principle 8, 9
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 
energy based products and services, and reductions 
in energy requirements as a result of these 
initiatives. (Additional indicator.)Environment/Climate  
& Energy  Principle 8, 9
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 
and reductions achieved. (Additional indicator.) Environment/Climate  
& Energy; Performance  
& Downloads  Principle 8, 9
Aspect: Water
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Environment/Water   Principle 8 Information about water 
usage in wet production 
processes
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 
of water. (Additional indicator.)Environment/Water   Principle 8GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 13INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled  
and reused. (Additional indicator.)Information about production 
wastewater quality available 
at Environment/Water
Aspect: Biodiversity
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed 
in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas.
EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 
products and services on biodiversity in protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas.
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional 
indicator.)
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 
managing impacts on biodiversity. (Additional 
indicator.)
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national 
conservation list species with habitats in areas 
affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 
(Additional indicator.)GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 14INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 
by weight.Environment/Climate  
& Energy; Performance  
& Downloads  Principle 8
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions  
by weight.Environment/Climate  
& Energy; Performance  
& Downloads  Principle 8
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
reductions achieved. (Additional indicator.)Environment/Climate  
& Energy; Performance  
& Downloads  Principle 7, 8, 9
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by 
type and weight.
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Environment/Water   Principle 8 Reference to waste water 
quality in production
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 15INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or 
treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of 
the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and 
percentage of transported waste shipped 
internationally. (Additional indicator.)
EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity 
value of water bodies and related habitats 
significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s 
discharges of water and runoff. (Additional 
indicator.)
Aspect: Products and Services
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 
products and services, and extent of impact 
mitigation.Environment; Products   Principle 7, 8, 9
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 
materials that are reclaimed by category.
Aspect: Compliance
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations.GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 16INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Transport
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 
products and other goods and materials used for 
the organisation’s operations, and transporting 
members of the workforce. (Additional indicator.)Environment/Transport; 
Approach  Principle 8
Aspect: Overall
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and 
investments by type. (Additional indicator.)
LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures Employees
Aspect: Employment
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 
contract, and region.Employees/Approach
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age 
group, gender and region.
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 
by major operations. (Additional indicator.)GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 17INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Labour/Management Relations
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.Employees/Dialogue & 
Employee Relations  Principle 1, 3
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 
changes, including whether it is specified in 
collective agreements.
Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal 
joint management-worker health and safety 
committees that help monitor and advise on 
occupational health and safety programmes.  
(Additional indicator.)
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 
and absenteeism, and number of work-related 
fatalities by region.
LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and 
risk-control programmes in place to assist 
workforce members, their families, or community 
members regarding serious diseases.GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 18INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal 
agreements with trade unions. (Additional 
indicator.)Employees/Dialogue & 
Employee Relations  Principle 1
Aspect: Training and Education
LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by 
employee category.Employees/Training  
& Development
LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong 
learning that support the continued employability of 
employees and assist them in managing career 
endings. (Additional indicator.)Employees/Training  
& Development
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews. 
(Additional indicator.)Employees/Training  
& Development
Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 
of employees per category according to gender,  
age group, minority group membership, and other 
indicators of diversity.Employees/Equality  
& Diversity   Principle 1, 6 Breakdown of board  
and other management 
categories according  
to genderGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 19INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee 
category.Employees/Our approach; 
Performance & Downloads  Principle 1, 6
HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures
Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant 
investment agreements that include human rights 
clauses or that have undergone human rights 
screening.Supply chain   Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Total numbers available
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors 
that have undergone screening on human rights and 
actions taken.Supply chain;  
Performance & Downloads  Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Total numbers available
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and 
procedures concerning aspects of human rights that 
are relevant to operations, including the percentage 
of employees trained. (Additional indicator.)Employees/Training on 
sustainability; Supply chain/
Auditor training  Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Aspect: Non-discrimination
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 
actions taken.Performance & Downloads   Principle 1, 2, 6 Relating to our suppliers and 
their subcontractorsGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 20INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective 
Bargaining Core
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at significant risk, and actions taken to 
support these rights.Supply chain; Employees; 
Performance & Downloads  Principle 1, 2, 3
Aspect: Child Labour
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for 
incidents of child labour, and measures taken to 
contribute to the elimination of child labour.Supply chain; Communities; 
Performance & Downloads  Principle 1, 2, 5Relating to our suppliers and 
their subcontractors
Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labour
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and 
measures to contribute to the elimination of forced 
or compulsory labour.Supply chain;  
Performance & Downloads  Principle 1, 3, 4Relating to our suppliers and 
their subcontractors
Aspect: Security Practices
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 
organisation’s policies or procedures concerning 
aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations. (Additional indicator.)GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 21INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Indigenous Rights
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving 
rights of indigenous people and actions taken.
SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures
Aspect: Community
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any 
programmes and practices that assess and manage 
the impacts of operations on communities, including 
entering, operating, and exiting.Supply chain/Responsible 
purchasing; Communities 
Aspect: Corruption
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units 
analysed for risks related to corruption.
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s 
anti-corruption policies and procedures.Approach/Integrity   Principle 10
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Approach/Integrity   Principle 10GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 22INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Public Policy
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public 
policy development and lobbying.Approach/Integrity   Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 
7, 8, 9, 10
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to 
political parties, politicians, and related institutions 
by country (Additional indicator.)Approach/Integrity   Principle 10
Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behaviour
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive 
behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and 
their outcomes. (Additional indicator.)
Aspect: Compliance Core
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
laws and regulations.
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosuresGRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 23INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
Aspect: Customer Health and Safety
PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety 
impacts of products and services are assessed  
for improvement, and percentage of significant 
products and services categories subject to  
such procedures.Products; Approach/Our 
product’s journey from  
cotton to customer  Principle 1
PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning health 
and safety impacts of products and services during 
their life-cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional 
indicator.)
Aspect: Product and Service Labelling Core
PR3 Type of product and service information required by 
procedures and percentage of significant products 
and services subject to such information 
requirements.Products/Chemical 
management
PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 
and service information and labelling, by type of 
outcomes. (Additional indicator.)GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009 24INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGELOCATION (CHAPTER IN 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT,  
IF NOT STATED OTHERWISE) ANNUAL REPORT REF. IF ANY UNGC PRINCIPLES NOTES
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 
results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 
(Additional indicator.)
Aspect: Marketing Communications
PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards  
and voluntary codes related to marketing 
communications, including advertising, promotion 
and sponsorship.Approach/
Responsible marketing
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
Aspect: Customer Privacy
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data. (Additional indicator.)
Aspect: Compliance
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-
compliance with laws and regulations concerning 
the provision and use of products and services.Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
25OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC 
COMMENTARY ON G3 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
Commentary on 1.2
Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities:
Where applicable, this should include an assessment of 
supply chain performance.Approach/Sustainability Strategy 
CROSS-CUTTING COMMENTARY
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC
Capacity Building Commentary for “Training and Education” in the 
Environment, Labour, Human Rights, Society and Product 
Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 
sections: This guidance applies to employees internal to 
the reporting organisation. Indicator AF5 refers to training 
and education programmes in workplaces within the 
reporting organisation’s supply chain.Employees/  
Training and development;  
Supply Chain/Auditor training GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENTOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
26
 Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
SUPPLY CHAIN STANDARDS AND PRACTICES SECTION
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC 
DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Code of Conduct AF1. Code of Conduct content and coverage. Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Audit Process AF2. Parties and personnel engaged in Code of Conduct 
compliance function.Approach/Supply Chain
Audit Process AF3. Compliance audit process. Supply Chain/Monitoring Suppliers
Grievance Procedures AF4. Policy and procedures for receiving, investigating 
and responding to grievances and complaints.Supply Chain/Monitoring suppliers; 
Employees/Our approach
Capacity Building AF5. Strategy and scope of efforts to strengthen capacity 
of management, workers and other staff to improve in 
social and environmental performance.Supply Chain/Beyond Monitoring
Business Integration AF6. Policies for supplier selection, management and 
termination.Approach; Supply ChainASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTESOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
27
 Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTESGRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Code of Conduct AF7. Number and location of workplaces covered by  
Code of Conduct.**Supply Chain; Performance  
and Downloads
Audit Process AF8. Number of audits conducted and percentage of 
workplaces audited.**Supply Chain/Audit findings  
and progress;  
Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF9. Incidents of non-compliance with legal requirements 
or collective bargaining agreements on wages.**Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF10. Incidents of non-compliance with overtime 
standards.**Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF11. Incidents of non-compliance with standards on 
pregnancy and maternity rights.**Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF12. Incidents of the use of child labour.** Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF13. Incidents of non-compliance with standards on 
gender discrimination.**Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF14. Incidents of non-compliance with Code of 
Conduct.**Performance & Downloads
Non-compliance findings AF15. Analysis of data from code compliance audits.** Performance & DownloadsOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
28
 Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTESGRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
Remediation AF16. Remediation practices to address non-compliance 
findings.**Supply Chain 
Business Integration AF17. Actions to identify and mitigate business practices 
that affect code Compliance.**Supply Chain/
Responsible purchasing
ENVIRONMENTAL SECTION
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC 
DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Materials AF18. Programmes to replace organic-based adhesives 
and primers with water-based adhesives and primers.Products/
Chemical management
Materials Practices to source safer alternative substances to those 
on the restricted substances list, including description of 
associated management systems.Products/H&M Chemical  
Restriction listOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
29GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
Materials Commentary on EN1
Materials used by weight or volume: 
–  Including use of pumice, stones and sand under 
Compilation 2.1 on “Associated process materials
–  Reporting on pumice, stones, and sand by weight  
under Compilation 2.3.
Materials AF20. List of environmentally preferable materials used in 
apparel and footwear products.Environment/Raw Materials
Energy AF21. Amount of energy consumed and percentage of the 
energy that is from renewable sources.Environment/Carbon & Energy
Emissions, Effluents and Waste Commentary on EN21
Total water discharge by quality and destination:
For Footwear: Reporting on total chromium discharges 
under Compilation 2.3.
For Apparel: Reporting on the discharge of antimony, 
arsenic, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, copper, cyanide, 
lead, mercury, nickel and zinc under Compilation 2.3. To 
be following the appropriate International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) analytical method or its equivalent.Environment/Water
Emissions, Effluents and Waste Commentary on EN22
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method:
Report on pumice, stones and sand under Compilation 2.1OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
30GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
Products and Services Commentary on EN26
Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 
and services, and extent of impact mitigation:
In addition to Compilation 2.2, report on specific 
programmes to reduce environmental impact of products, 
including but not limited to manufacturing, product use 
and packaging use at the design and conceptualisation 
stages. Report also on the use of recycled materials and 
the recyclability of products and packaging. Report 
quantitatively where possible.Environment
SOCIAL SECTION
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC 
COMMENTARY ON G3 LABOUR DISCLOSURE ON 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH. APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR 
ORGANISATIONS SHOULD INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING 
WHEN REPORTING AGAINST THE RELEVANT 
DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH.
Employment Include the use of foreign migrant workers Supply Chain/
Performance & DownloadsStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
31OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC LABOUR 
DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Employment AF22. Policy and practices regarding the use of 
employees with non-permanent and non-fulltime 
status.**
Employment AF23. Policy regarding the use of home working.** Supply Chain/Home working
Employment AF24. Policy on the use and selection of labour brokers, 
including adherence to relevant ILO Conventions.**Supply Chain/Code of Conduct, Home 
working 
Wages and hours AF25. Policy and practices on wage deductions that are 
not mandated by law.**Supply Chain/Code of Conduct 
Wages and hours AF26. Policy on working hours, including definition of 
overtime and actions to prevent excessive and forced 
overtime.**Supply Chain/Code of Conduct, Building 
management capacity  
Diversity and Equal Opportunities AF27. Policy and actions to protect the pregnancy and 
maternity rights of women workers.**Supply Chain/Code of ConductOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
32GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC LABOUR 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND COMMENTARY ON  
G3 INDICATORS
Employment AF28. Percentage of foreign migrant workers as a portion 
of total workforce, broken down by region. 
Labour/Management Relations AF29. Percentage of workplaces where there is one or 
more independent trade union(s), broken down by: 
– Workplaces with a collective bargaining agreement 
–  Workplaces without a collective bargaining agreement
Also provide information broken down by country.Employees/Dialogue &  
Employee Relations
Labour/Management Relations AF30. Percentage of workplaces where, in the absence of 
a trade union, there are worker-management committees, 
broken down by country.
Occupational Health and Safety Commentary on LA 7.
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days  
and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 
by region:
–  Include health issues associated with reduced lung 
function due to dust in “Occupational disease rate” 
under Compilation 2.4.
–  Include risk assessments and preventative measures 
for accidents and injuries under Compilation 2.7.Annual Report Part 2/Notes to the 
financial statementsStyle & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
OUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
33GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
Occupational Health and Safety AF31. Initiatives and programmes to respond to, reduce 
and prevent the occurrence of musculoskeletal disorders.
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC 
COMMENTARY ON HUMAN RIGHTS DISCLOSURE ON 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Non-discrimination The treatment of foreign migrant workers Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Abolition of Child Labour Young workers as recognised by ILO Convention 182 Supply Chain/Code of Conduct H&M's policy against child labour is based on 
ILO conventions 138 and 182, and the UN 
Convention on The Rights of the ChildOUTCOME: FULL COVERAGE  PARTIAL COVERAGE  NO COVERAGE  NOT RELEVANT  
Style & Substance Sustainability Report 2009GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASPECT DISCLOSUREEXTENT OF 
REPORTING  
COVERAGE LOCATION (CHAPTER) NOTES
34GRI CONTENT INDEX
APPAREL & FOOTWEAR SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENT
APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR SECTOR SPECIFIC SOCIETY 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND COMMENTARY ON  
G3 INDICATORS
Community Investment AF33. Priorities in community investment strategy. Communities/Approach  
Community Investment AF34. Amount of investment in worker communities 
broken down by location.Communities
Public Policy Commentary on SO5.
Public policy positions and participation in public policy 
development and lobbying:
Report public policy position on the inclusion of labour 
and environmental protections in trade agreements and 
the degree to which lobbying positions integrate 
considerations about the potential effects on workers, 
communities and organisations in the supply chain under 
Compilation 2.3.Approach/Integrity
** Reporting organisations must also include entities 
that they monitor (i.e. those defined as under significant 
influence by the Report Boundary guidance).
The UN Global Compact Principles can be found under: 
http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AbouttheGC/
TheTENPrinciples/index.html